[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2003 BDO World Darts Championship

le opportunities to strike a double ring. In the match between Anderson and Fordham, Anderson won the first set on the bullseye ring and Fordham won three legs in a row without reply to level the score. Anderson then claimed the next two sets and finished on the double six ring to win the match 3–1.

Van Barneveld whitewashed Burton 3–0 with a 12-dart finish; Burton won a single leg in each of the three sets played. Clarys came from two legs behind Wagner to win the first set 3–2 and then whitewashed his opponent 3–0. Monk overcame O'Shea 3–2 in a narrowly fought match that the press positively reviewed. Both players tied at 2–2 and the match concluded with a final set decider. The score went to 5–5 when the referee confirmed a sudden death leg, which Monk won with a 102 checkout by striking the treble 20, single 10 and double 16 rings. Monk said post-match he was exhausted and O'Shea praised his opponent's form. The final second round match saw King defeat Harbour 3–1. Two 12-dart finishes and three maximum scores won King set one. King prevented Harbour from winning the second by hitting the double eight ring. Harbour took the third set before King won the match in the fourth.

Quarter-finals
The four quarter-finals were played to the best-of-nine sets between 9 and 10 January. Davies averaged 32.73 points per dart thrown in whitewashing David 5–0. He won the opening two sets 3–0 and 3–2. Davies further extended his lead through dart throw accuracy and after David could not strike the double 20 ring in the third set. After the mid-session interval, both players tied the fifth set 2–2 until Davies achieved a 121 checkout to win the match. He entered the semi-finals of the championship for the first time in seven attempts. Post-match David said Davies had outperformed him and the latter expressed a surprise over whitewashing his opponent. Another whitewash occurred when Anderson defeated Taylor 5–0 in an all-Scottish fixture. He compiled checkouts of 161 and 140 and a 13-dart finish en route to victory. Anderson commented on his form: "I thought I'd win tonight but I thought it would be a lot closer than that. I was fine against Andy Fordham but I felt a little bit nervous tonight. However, I'm through and I've got nothing to lose."

In the other quarter-finals Van Barneveld achieved a three-dart average of 100.83 and a finish percentage of 59.25 in his 5–1 defeat of Clarys. The match included a tournament-high checkout of 170 from Clarys in the final set. Van Barneveld won the first two sets and Clarys took the third 3–1. Van Barneveld produced a 124 checkout in set four to restore a two set advantage. He took the following two sets 3–0 and 3–2 to qualify for the semi-finals. King whitewashed Monk 5–0 in a repeat of their semi-final game from the 2002 tournament. Both players shared the first four legs of the first set. King hit the double six ring to take a lead he retained for the rest of the game and took the last semi-final spot. He commented on what he needed to defeat Van Barneveld, "I've got to be looking for a 99 to 100 average against Raymond. As you all know, it's not beyond me. But I'm just looking for the win at the end of day, because the Embassy is what you play for."

Semi-finals

Both of the semi-finals were played on 11 January. Davies defeated Anderson 5–2 to enter the final. The two players began the match by sharing the first two sets each. Davies subsequently produced a 140 checkout to move in front and he further extended his advantage by winning the fourth set with a finish on the double five ring. After the mid-session interval Anderson won the fifth set. Davies responded by claiming the next set 3–2; a 15-dart finish and Davies finishing on the double ten ring in the eighth set won him the match. Davies said he began slower than before and was eager to participate in the final, "If anyone would have told me at the start of the week that I would be in the final, I'd have laughed. But I've got nothing to lose in this tournament. I've just come here to do as well as I can."