[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Stuart London

3 as White's Chocolate House on St. James's Street.

Britain's strengthening connections to the wider world meant that Londoners were able to access and afford foreign foods like coffee, tea, chocolate, and sugar cane more easily.

The Black Eagle Brewery on Brick Lane was founded in 1661.

Science 

In 1609, William Harvey was appointed physician at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and in 1618, he became a physician to the king himself. In 1628, Harvey published De Motu Cordis, a landmark step in the knowledge of how blood circulation works. The physician Edward Tyson performed animal dissections to show the relationships between various species, founding the study of comparative anatomy. In 1680, he bought the body of a porpoise which had swum up the Thames, and publicly dissected it at Gresham College, discovering that it was not a fish, but a mammal. He published a book called Anatomy of a Porpess detailing his findings later that year. In 1698, he dissected a chimpanzee (which he misidentified as an orangutan) which had been brought from Africa, and showed the similarities between apes and humans. 

The Royal Society was formed in 1662 in London, as a club for gentlemen to share scientific knowledge and new understanding. They hired Robert Hooke to perform new experiments each week, making him the world's first paid professional research scientist. In 1665, Hooke published Micrographia, showing detailed illustrations of things that could only be seen through a microscope. In 1687, the Society published Isaac Newton's seminal Philosophae Naturalis Principia Mathematica, and Newton was made President of the Society in 1695.

New inventions and experiments were trialled out or displayed in London, particularly towards the end of the period. London was one of the few places where scientific instruments like thermometers, barometers, telescopes and accurate clocks could be bought. The famous clockmaker Thomas Tompion had a shop at the junction of Fleet Street and Water Lane. In 1660, a set of water-lifting machines were put on public display in St. James's Park. In 1698, Thomas Savery demonstrated a steam engine for pumping water out of mines before the Royal Society.

In 1675, Charles II established the Royal Observatory in Greenwich, with John Flamsteed as its first Astronomer Royal. Later that year, Flamsteed was visited by the astronomer Edmond Halley. In 1678, Halley published a catalogue of stars of the southern hemisphere that he had compiled during a voyage to St. Helena, and became a Fellow of the Royal Society.

See also
History of London
 Timeline of 17th century London

References

Sources

History of London by period
17th century in London
Stuart England