[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dax McCarty

ielder and was regarded as one of the top players on the team. He made 33 league appearances for the club and scored three goals and set up three others. He was regarded as the most underrated player in the league due to his silent presence in the midfield behind stars, Thierry Henry and Tim Cahill.

Before the 2013 season; sporting director Andy Roxburgh extended McCarty's contract and praised him as the "heart and soul of the team." McCarty continued his fine play for New York throughout the season as he made 30 league appearances and scored four goals in helping the club to its first major title the 2013 MLS Supporters' Shield. On August 26, 2014, McCarty made his CONCACAF Champions League debut in a 2–0 win against El Salvadorian side, C.D. FAS. Throughout the 2014 season, McCarty anchored the midfield during their run to the 2014 Eastern Conference Finals where they ultimately fell to the New England Revolution. At the end of the season, McCarty was nominated for Goal of the Year, for his chip from outside the box against Bobby Shuttleworth and the Revolution on August 2. In December 2014, the Red Bulls turned down a large trade offer (multiple draft picks and allocation money) for McCarty from expansion club, Orlando City.

McCarty was named captain of New York on March 8, 2015, by the club's new coach, Jesse Marsch. During his first season as captain, McCarty appeared in a career-high 39 matches in all competitions and recorded another career-high with eight assists. His partnerships with Sacha Kljestan and Felipe helped form one of the strongest midfield trios in the league and helped lead New York to the 2015 MLS Supporters' Shield. McCarty and the front office met with season ticket holders at a town hall meeting on September 2 in a way to build an even stronger relationship with the fanbase and address concerns. On November 1, 2015, McCarty scored the lone goal for New York in a 1–0 victory over former club and rival D.C. United in the first leg of the MLS Cup Playoff Seminfinals. The match also wrote McCarty's name in the record books as he tied the club record for most playoff starts with 12. He would go on to break that record the following week with a start against his former club, D.C. United. Strong performances throughout the 2015 season, landed McCarty his first all-star appearance as well as his first appearance on Major League Soccer's Best XI of the season.

During the 2016 preseason, McCarty signed a new multi-year deal with the club on January 8. The terms of the deal were not disclosed as per MLS' league policy. McCarty was named alongside Darlington Nagbe as ESPN's most underrated player in MLS, even after earning MLS All-Star recognition during the previous season. On May 21, McCarty scored two goals in the Red Bulls 7–0 victory against New York City FC in the Hudson River Derby. It was the first two-goal game in his career. The following week against Toronto FC, McCarty became the second player in club history to make 150 league starts. McCarty fractured his tibia on July 31 against the Chicago Fire. After being forced out of play for a month, McCarty returned to the field on September 3 against Vancouver. After being eliminated from the playoffs by the Montreal Impact; McCarty appeared in his 198th game for the club and became the club's all-time appearance leader.

Chicago Fire
On January 16, 2017, McCarty was traded to the Chicago Fire in exchange for $400,000 in allocation money. The trade took McCarty completely by surprise, with the move being announced just days after the 29-year-old was married and while he was attending his first U.S. national team camp in years. Since joining Chicago Fire in 2017, the club has had their most successful season in years and he has enjoyed acclaim as the "unsung hero" of the club with which he passed 250 starts in MLS.

Nashville SC
On November 12, 2019, it was officially announced that McCarty had been traded to new MLS side Nashville SC ahead of their inaugural season in 2020. Chicago received $50,000 in 2020 General Allocation Money, $50,000 in 2020 Targeted Allocation Money and a second round pick in the 2021 MLS SuperDraft.

International career
McCarty was named to the United States U-20 men's national soccer team for the 2007 FIFA U-20 World Cup.

He was named to the roster of the United States U-23 men's national soccer team for the 2008 CONCACAF Men Pre-Olympic Tournament in March 2008. He played in every match for the U-23 squad and was named to the All Tournament Team with teammates Maurice Edu and Freddy Adu. He was also voted to the "2008 Best XI" as a midfielder by the CONCACAF Technical Study Group.