[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Vertamae Smart-Grosvenor

l' as a pair of candied yams. I don't have culinary limitations because I'm 'black.' On the other hand, I choose to write about 'Afro-American' cookery because I'm 'black' and know the wonderful, fascinating culinary history there is. And because the Afro-American cook has been so underappreciated."

The book addresses gentrification of cuisine and the classification as "gourmet" of foods that have long been a part of African-American cookery, such as collards and terrapins. In the recipe for terrapins, Grosvenor writes,

Ain't nothing but swamp turtles. They used to be plentiful on the eastern seaboard. So plentiful that plantation owners gave them to their slaves. Now they are the rare discovery of so-called gore-mays. White folks always discovering something…after we give it up. By the time they got to the bugaloo, we were doing the 'tighten up.' By the time they got to pigs' feet, black people were giving up swine.

Grosvenor uses food as a way to talk about racism and cultural sensitivities. She writes about her own experiences of being discriminated against as a black woman and her frustrations with the oversimplification and pigeonholing of African-American cooking. She includes a letter she once wrote to the editors of Time in response to an essay that claimed soul food to be tasteless: "Your taste buds are so racist that they can't even deal with black food," she wrote.

Depictions 
In 2015 filmmaker Julie Dash, known for her film Daughters of the Dust, about Gullah culture in the early 20th century, launched a crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo to raise money to continue her production of a documentary about Grosvenor entitled Travel Notes of a Geechee Girl.

Personal life
Smart married Bob Grosvenor. They had a daughter, Kali Grosvenor, in 1960, and later separated. Kali Grosvenor-Henry is married and a poet, essayist and author. Grosvenor and Kali published for the first time simultaneously: In 1969, a Doubleday employee received Kali's poetry manuscript and Smart-Grosvenor's cookbook notes and decided to publish both pieces. The following year, in 1970, when Kali was nine, Doubleday published both Poems by Kali and Vibration Cooking.

In 1962, Grosvenor had her daughter Chandra Ursule Weinland-Brown, who is married and an actor, visual artist, and poet. Grosevenor had this child with Oscar Weinland.

Death
After suffering an aneurysm in 2009, Smart-Growsvenor spent her days in Palm Key, South Carolina, a private island near her birth town. Smart-Grosvenor died of natural causes on September 3, 2016, in the Bronx, NY at the Hebrew Home at Riverdale.

Honors and awards 
 Robert F. Kennedy Award for Daufuskie: Never Enough Too Soon (1990)
 Ohio State Award for Daufuskie: Never Enough Too Soon (1990)
 duPont-Columbia Award for AIDS and Black America: Breaking the Silence (1990)
 National Association of Black Journalists Award for her NPR piece South Africa and the African-American Experience (1990)
 CEBA Award for Marcus Garvey: 20th Century Pan-Africanist (1991)
 James Beard Award for Best Radio Show for Seasonings on NPR (1996)
 Honorary doctorate ("Doctor of Humane Letters") from the University of New Hampshire (1998)
 Craig Claiborne Lifetime Achievement Award from the Southern Foodways Alliance

Bibliography
 Smart-Grosvenor, Vertamae. Vibration Cooking: The Travel Notes of a Geechee Girl. Ballantine Books, 1970. 
 Grosvenor, Vertamae, Thursdays and Every Other Sunday Off: A Domestic Rap, New York: Doubleday, 1972 
 Grosvenor, Vertamae. Black Atlantic Cooking, Prentice Hall Trade, 1990.
 Grosvenor, Vertamae. Vertamae Cooks in America's Family Kitchen. KQED Books, 1996. 
 Grosvenor, Vertamae. Vertamae Cooks Again. Bay Books, 1999.

See also
 Cuisine of the Southern United States
 Hoppin' John

References

External links
 Bio: "Vertamae Grosvenor", NPR
  Brief Bio: "Vertamae Grosvenor", The Writer's Almanac, American Public Media
 Southern Foodways Alliance
 

1938 births
2016 deaths
Lowcountry cuisine
American food writers
Writers from South Carolina
People from Hampton County, South Carolina
Gullah
Researchers in Gullah anthropology