[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Institute for Defense Analyses

ther executive branch organizations.

Throughout its history, IDA also has assisted other federal agencies. Recent work includes research performed in support of the Department of Homeland Security, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Director of National Intelligence, and others.

Leadership
The following have served as president of IDA:
 James McCormack, 1956–1959 
 Garrison Norton, 1959–1962 
 Richard M. Bissell Jr., 1962–1964 
 Jack Ruina, 1964–1966 
 Maxwell D. Taylor, 1966–1969 
 Alexander H. Flax, 1969–1983 
 Andrew Goodpaster, 1983–1985 
 William Y. Smith, 1985–1990 
 Larry D. Welch, 1990–2003 
 Dennis C. Blair, 2003–2006 
 Larry D. Welch, 2006–2009 
 David S. C. Chu, 2009–2020
 Norton A. Schwartz, 2020–present

Sponsors
IDA's Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs), work with governmental sponsors and do not work for commercial enterprises or for-profit organizations.

The Systems and Analyses Center's primary sponsor is the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics. SAC assists the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Unified Combatant Commands, and U.S. Department of Defense agencies in addressing national security issues, particularly those requiring scientific and technical expertise. With concurrence from the USD(AT&L), SAC also supports other sponsors – including the Veterans Administration Veteran's Administration; the Intelligence Community; U.S. Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, and U.S. Department of Energy.

The Science and Technology Policy Institute provides analyses for the National Science Foundation as STPI's primary sponsor and the Office of Science and Technology Policy as its primary customer. STPI also provides analysis for the National Institutes of Health, the U.S. Department of Energy, the National Aeronautics and Space Agency, and other science-performing Federal agencies.

The Center for Communications and Computing supports the National Security Agency.

IDA's FFRDCs

Systems and Analyses Center

The Systems and Analyses Center (SAC) is the largest of IDA's three FFRDCs and is co-located with the IDA headquarters in Alexandria, Virginia. SAC assists the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, and Defense Agencies in addressing important national security issues, focusing particularly on those requiring scientific and technical expertise. It includes the following divisions:

Cost Analysis and Research Division (CARD) helps guide the Department of Defense and other federal agencies in the decisions, policies, and processes of resource – both people and money – allocation. Specifically, CARD analysts engage in:
    Evaluating costs for pending government acquisition or retention
    Examining resource allocation policies to guide sponsors’ decision
    Improving the efficiency and effectiveness of our sponsors’ resource allocation processes
  CARD also supports the Department of Homeland Security efforts to assess and validate new anti-terrorism systems as mandated by the Support Anti-Terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act. Similar to the support to DoD, analysts provide the technical evaluation ensuring that proposed technologies are safe and effective.

Information Technology and Systems Division (ITSD) focuses on cybersecurity and other cyberspace challenges of national and global importance. ITSD researchers address all aspects of cyber from the perspectives of cyberspace operations, technology, and policy/law, and where these perspectives intersect. In particular, ITSD concentrates on these areas:
    Providing expertise on critical cyber technology procurements via in-depth knowledge of the technology and modern methods for timely acquisition of technology that matters.
    Assessing advanced concepts in rapidly changing cyber technologies while identifying and analyzing cyber risks.
    Analyzing the workforce to determine if they are ready for cyber challenges and developing training and education programs to ensure we are ready for future cyber challenges.
    Applying world-class talent in content understanding by analyzing Big Data to bring clarity to a world drowning in data
  ITSD researchers have performed assessments of existing DoD cyberspace organizational constructs, developed alternative technology strategies, and advised leaders on the most effective options to enhance cyberspace operations. Analysts also assist DoD and other governmental agencies in addressing problems related to real-world operations.