[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Religious intellectualism in Iran

society. Anything outside of the rigid, but pervasive, interpretation of the religious texts is rejected and the absolute sovereignty of God prevails such that there is no role for the sovereignty of people. The less freedom a society enjoys, the stronger religion will be.

Some particular problems

There are many issues about Islam that have been the origin of human rights concerns over the last few decades. Many of such problems have been solved (in theory) almost hundred years ago by Iranian philosophers of religion and many of such problems are now "considered history" in Iranian academic circles. Such questions however have been a matter of concern among traditional theologians. Here is a list of some such problems that have been solved by traditional theologians:
Apostasy: 
Solved by religious intellectuals hundred years ago 
Solved by traditional humanists Ahmad Ghabel and Hossein Ali Montazeri.
Solved in some specific cases by fundamentalists: Ali Khamenei and Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi in the case of Hashem Aghajari.
Stoning:
Solved by traditional humanists: Allameh Tabatabaei
Solved by fundamentalists: Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi (As the Head of Judiciary, he ordered a ban on the practice of stoning in December 2002.)
Suicide bombing:
Solved by traditional humanists: Yousef Sanei and Ahmad Ghabel
Blood money:
Solved by traditional humanists: Yousef Sanei
Hijab:
Solved by traditional humanists: Ahmad Ghabel, Hassan Yousefi Eshkevari, Mahmoud Taleghani and Hossein Ali Montazeri
Clerical administration and theocracy:
Solved by traditional humanists: Ahmad Ghabel
Trans sexuality:
Solved by Ruhollah Khomeini and Mehdi Karimi Nia.

Ideological issues like Jihad do not have any place in modern Iranian theology since the end of the ideological discourse (phase 1). However some issues like homosexuality, prostitutions and promiscuity are still under investigation in the context of Iranian theology. The current view among religious intellectuals is that the act of homosexuality is "simply immoral". However no one conducted a solid research on the issue in Iran up to now. The current understanding about the nature of homosexuality among such scholars seems to be similar to European psychologists' view before 1885.

Criticism
This movement and its ideas have been criticized from different viewpoints. On one hand some intellectuals and academicians like Javad Tabatabaei has criticized using religious as the attribute of  intellectualism. On the other hand, some others like Seyyed Hossein Nasr has criticized them because of merging Islam with modernism. Furthermore, theologians like Morteza Motahhari, Javadi Amoli and Mesbah Yazdi have criticized them because of diversion from Shia and Islamic theology.

Notable figures

Akhound Khorasani
Allameh Na'ini
Mahmoud Taleghani
Yadollah Sahabi
Mehdi Bazargan
Ali Shariati
Morteza Motahhari
Mohammad Mojtahed Shabestari
Abdolkarim Soroush
Mohsen Kadivar
Saeed Hajjarian
Alireza Alavitabar
Mahmoud Sadri
Ahmad Zeidabadi
Hashem Aghajari
Yousef Sanei
Hossein-Ali Montazeri
Mostafa Mohaqqeq Damad
Mohammad Khatami
Hassan Yousefi Eshkevari
Abdol Ali Bazargan
Ezzatollah Sahabi
Arash Naraghi

References and further reading 
Ashk Dahlén, Islamic Law, Epistemology and Modernity: Legal Philosophy in Contemporary Iran, New York: Routledge (2003).
Ashk Dahlén, Sirat al-mustaqim: One or Many? Religious Pluralism Among Muslim Intellectuals in Iran, The Blackwell Companion to Contemporary Islamic Thought, ed. I. Abu-Rabi, Oxford (2006).
Farideh Farhi, Religious Intellectuals, the "Woman Question," and the Struggle for the Creation of a Democratic Public Sphere in Iran, International Journal of Politics, Culture, and Society. Volume 15, Number 2 / December, 2001
Forough Jahanbakhsh, Islam, Democracy. and Religious Modernism in Iran: From Bazargan. to Soroush, Leiden: Brill (2001)
Forough Jahanbakhsh, The Emergence and Development of Religious Intellectualism in Iran, Historical Reflections, Vol.30, No.3, Fall 2004, pp. 469–490.
Farhad Khosrokhavar, The New Intellectuals in Iran Social Compass, Vol. 51, No. 2, 191–202 (2004)
Mirsepassi, Ali. Religious Intellectuals and Western Critiques of Secular Modernity, Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East – Volume 26, Number 3, 2006, pp. 416–433
Mahmoud Sadri, Sacral Defense of Secularism: The Political Theologies of Soroush, Shabestari, and Kadivar. International Journal of Politics, Culture and Society, Vol. 15, No. 2, Winter 2001.
Ahmad Sadri and Mahmoud Sadri Reason, Freedom, and Democracy in Islam: Essential Writings of Abdolkarim Soroush. OXFORD University press. 
Mohammad Mojtahed Shabestari, The Secular Nature of Law in Islam: A Basis for Democracy. Global Dialogue, No. 6 (1/2) (2004).

See also