[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dysart et al

d in Minden, Ontario, Dorset and at St. Nora Lake (now the Leslie Frost Centre).

Education
The County of Haliburton is part of the Trillium Lakelands District School Board.

Elementary:
Stuart W. Baker Elementary School (French Immersion): Grades K–4
J. Douglas Hodgson Elementary School: Grades 4–8

Secondary:
Haliburton Highlands Secondary School

Post-Secondary:
Fleming College – Haliburton School of the Arts

Adult Education:
Highlands Adult Education and Training Centre
 Fleming College Academic Upgrading

Demographics

In the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Dysart et al had a population of  living in  of its  total private dwellings, a change of  from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of  in 2021.

Culture

Dysart et al has a vibrant cultural community including Haliburton School of The Arts, Arts Council~Haliburton Highlands, Highlands Summer Festival, Highlands Opera Studio, Haliburton Highlands Museum, Haliburton Sculpture Forest, and Rails End Gallery & Arts Centre.
The Haliburton International Film Festival (HIFF) is held each November at the Northern Lights Performing Arts Pavilion at the high school.

The Annual Haliburton Art and Craft Festival is held on the fourth weekend in July and is a signature  event for Haliburton County with attendance of approx 7500 and over 100 artisans.

Haliburton appears as a significant setting in Canadian literature. Examples include Richard Pope's Me n Len – Life in the Haliburton Bush 1900–1940 and Robert Rotenberg's Old City Hall.

Scenes from the movie Meatballs (1979) were filmed at Camp White Pine, Haliburton.

Media
Dysart et al is served by two newspapers, The Haliburton Echo and The Highlander, and two radio stations, 100.9 Canoe FM and 93.5 The Moose.

Parks
Southern portions of Algonquin Provincial Park lie in Dysart et al in the geographic townships of Bruton, Clyde, Eyre and Harburn.

Notable people

 Matt Duchene – NHL and Team Canada Hockey Player, drafted third overall in the 2009 National Hockey League Entry Draft by the Colorado Avalanche. Was third in Calder Memorial Trophy voting after the 2009–10 season, behind Tyler Myers of the Buffalo Sabres and Jimmy Howard of the Detroit Red Wings.
 Cody Hodgson – NHL hockey player drafted from the OHL's Brampton Battalion, selected tenth overall by the Vancouver Canucks in the 2008 National Hockey League Entry Draft, grew up in Haliburton
 Howie Lockhart – Born April 22, 1897, in North Bay, Ontario, Canada. Was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played five seasons in the National Hockey League for the Toronto St. Pats, Quebec Bulldogs, Hamilton Tigers and Boston Bruins. Lockhart was a resident of Haliburton and died there on August 2, 1956.
 Bernie Nicholls – From West Guilford, Nicholls played 18 seasons in the National Hockey League with the Los Angeles Kings, New York Rangers, Edmonton Oilers, New Jersey Devils, Chicago Blackhawks and San Jose Sharks.
 Nila Reynolds, historian and author
 Ron Stackhouse – From Haliburton, Stackhouse played 12 seasons in the National Hockey League with the California Golden Seals, Detroit Red Wings and Pittsburgh Penguins. 
The local arena has mural paintings of Duchene, Hodgson, Nicholls, Stackhouse and Mike Bradley on the outside wall.

See also
 List of municipalities in Ontario
List of townships in Ontario

References

Footnotes

Sources

External links

Lower-tier municipalities in Ontario
Municipalities in Haliburton County