[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paul Stewart (footballer, born 1964)

as Division One champions. He never played for Liverpool after the 1993–94 season, although he remained contracted to the club (and assigned the number 8 squad number for another season until it went to Stan Collymore) until March 1996. Stewart scored just three goals during his spell at Liverpool.

Later career
He had loan spells at Crystal Palace (January 1994), Wolverhampton Wanderers (September 1994), Burnley (February 1995) and Sunderland (August–November 1995), before joining Sunderland on a free transfer in March 1996 and helped them win promotion to the Premier League as Division One champions. He was unable to keep them in the Premier League and after their relegation he signed for Stoke City. Stewart's spell at Stoke City was not a successful one as he played 25 times in 1997–98 scoring three goals and ended with Stoke suffering relegation to the third tier.

Stewart then signed for non-league side Workington, scoring 15 goals in 55 games over two years, and helping them win promotion from the North West Counties League in his first season, before retiring from playing completely at the end of the 1999–00 season with Workington re-established in the Northern Premier League First Division. Stewart remains one of the very few players to have the distinction of playing in a north London derby, a Manchester derby, a Merseyside derby and a Northeast derby.

International career
Stewart played for England at England under-21 and B before being capped three times in the early 1990s for the senior side under Graham Taylor.

Personal life
Stewart was inducted into the Hall of Fame at Bloomfield Road, when it was officially opened by former Blackpool player Jimmy Armfield in April 2006. Organised by the Blackpool Supporters Association, Blackpool fans around the world voted on their all-time heroes. Five players from each decade are inducted; Stewart is in the 1980s.

In November 2016, Stewart said that he was a victim of child sexual abuse when he was playing youth football.

Stewart released his autobiography in August 2017, titled, Damaged.

Career statistics
Source:

A.  The "Other" column constitutes appearances and goals in the Anglo-Italian Cup, Football League Trophy, Full Members Cup and UEFA Cup Winners' Cup.

Honours

Club
Tottenham Hotspur
FA Cup: 1990–91

Workington 
North West Counties League First Division Champions – 1998–99

Individual
PFA Team of the Year: 1987–88 Second Division
Blackpool Hall of Fame Inductee

References

Further reading

External links
 LFCHistory.net profile
 Stewart in the Blackpool Supporters Association Hall of Fame
 

1964 births
Living people
English men's footballers
Blackpool F.C. players
Manchester City F.C. players
Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players
Liverpool F.C. players
England men's under-21 international footballers
England men's international footballers
England men's B international footballers
Crystal Palace F.C. players
Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C. players
Burnley F.C. players
Sunderland A.F.C. players
Stoke City F.C. players
Workington A.F.C. players
Footballers from Manchester
People from Poulton-le-Fylde
Premier League players
English Football League players
Men's association football forwards
English autobiographers