[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Maging Sino Ka Man (2006 TV series)

B. Later on, JB comes over to Mamu G's for dinner—with Jackie.  Faced with the uncomfortable prospect of eating at the same table with Eli, Jackie wants to leave straight away. JB, however, will not let her, and brags to Mamu G and Eli about their wedding over dinner, apparently to make Eli jealous.

Part 7: The New, Rich Eli
Eli is now rich and powerful. This is the part where his Dadoods is killed because of Fidel and JB, and the part here his brother is in jail, and his life was totally in hell when his relationship with Jackie was destroyed. His anger with Fidel and JB is growing. He wanted to take revenge, which leads him into making a still unknown plan. He then decides to leave RSL and take all his shares from the company. Corazon was infuriated and tells him that he can't do that or their business will collapse. Eli soon convinces her, and Corazon's company starts losing a lot of money. People are getting angry with Corazon and JB. Eli later on wanted to take out his money from Fidel's bank, but it appears that the bank did not have enough money to convert the cheque into cash. Eli gets angry. He complains to Fidel about his company, and even threatens Fidel that he will destroy his reputation. Fidel gets enraged.

Part 8: Redemption
Fidel is showing signs of pity towards Jackie. The other day, he overhears Jackie talking to Celine, saying how sometimes she doesn't want to open her eyes anymore. She also says that everyday her life is being manipulated that she feels she is already dead. Fidel sees that Jackie is depressed and sad, sometimes not even eating. He totally manipulated her life, and he realizes how he has been evil to her. One morning, Jackie wakes up and sees Fidel serve her some breakfast. She asks why, and he replies that it isn't bad to give her breakfast once in a while, because she has always done that for him, and she hasn't been eating very much for some time. Jackie quietly thanks him, and Fidel smiles.
Later on, Jackie sees Fidel really tired and stressed out with work. She gets a bit worried, and serves breakfast to Fidel the next morning. Surprised, he cries. "The best coffee...For the best dad," was the line Jackie used to say.  Fidel was overjoyed, saying he thought he will never hear that again. He says that he was sorry for all that he has done, and said it was unfair for him to throw Monique out of the house just like that. Jackie was so happy, and they both hug.

Part 9: The Big Twist
Oca is still manipulating the mind of Eli. With Eli's plans to bankrupt Fidel's company, Jackie was forced to meet Eli and ask him to stop, Eli said yes to her demands but in return Jackie would have to marry him. Jackie ran away from his house, crying, not before saying a big fat NO to him.
The next day was JB and Jackie's wedding. JB promises to himself to be a good husband to Jackie. The guests and the groom have arrived and are waiting for Jackie. Jackie steps inside her bridal car with a determined look on her face. The maids are riding in front of the bridal car when they notice Jackie's car swayed the other way. The maids call Fidel about what happened which prompted JB to get into his car and drive after them.  When he finally catches up to it, he finds the car was empty which drove him to have a fit.
Later on, it is shown that Eli and Jackie signing the marriage contract. They got married instead, but not out of love. Eli married Jackie for his final revenge on Fidel, while Jackie married Eli to save her father's company. Jackie refused to let Eli kiss her on their wedding day.
JB returned to his drinking ways and shot Eli on the shoulder after returning from the bar. Oca told JB that if Eli sues him, he will rot in jail. But Eli didn't file a case against JB.
Celine sees a scrapbook of her tangible memories of JB. She burned it.
Oca ordered the beating of Pong in prison. Pong later suffers a traumatic breakdown. Eli blames Don Fidel for this and refused to hear what he is saying.

Don Fidel meets with Oca at a foreclosed building, and they argue. Oca tells Fidel that it was him who ordered the beating of Pong. Oca shoots at Fidel's feet. Fidel walks backwards to avoid the bullets until he falls down the stairs. Don Fidel is later rushed to the hospital, and Jackie is seen crying. Doña Corazon (JB's mother) visits him and tells him that because of ill will he deserved everything that's happened. Monique later takes care of Fidel, who tells her he is sorry for everything. Mamu G told Eli to let Fidel go.