[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mitterrand doctrine

in absentia. The extraditions in the 2000s decade involved not only members of the Red Brigades but also other leftist activists who had fled to France and were being sought by Italian justice. They included Antonio Negri, who eventually chose to return to Italy and surrender to Italian authorities.

In 2004, French judicial officials authorised the extradition of Cesare Battisti. In 2005 the Conseil d'État confirmed the extradition and marked the end of the Mitterrand doctrine. Nonetheless Battisti had already fled to Mexico and subsequently to Brazil, where he lived as fugitive for the following 14 years. In 2018, when Brazil revocated his protection, he fled again to Bolivia and unsuccessfully sought asylum. He was arrested and extradited to Italy to expiate his sentence of life imprisonment for four murders.

Commenting on the doctrine Gilles Martinet, an old socialist intellectual and former ambassador to Italy, wrote in the preface to a book that was dedicated to the Battisti case, "Not being able to make a revolution in our country, we continue to dream of it elsewhere. It continues to exist the need to prove ourselves that we are always on the left and that we have not departed from the ideal".

The list of Italians who benefited from the Mitterrand doctrine include: 
Toni Negri;
Cesare Battisti, sentenced to life imprisonment for four murders;
;
Sergio Tornaghi;
Oreste Scalzone;
Marina Petrella;
Franco Piperno;
;
Enrico Villimburgo and Roberta Cappelli, sentenced to life imprisonment for murder;
Giovanni Alimonti and Maurizio di Marzio, sentenced respectively to 22 and 15 years for a series of attacks;
Enzo Calvitti, sentenced to 21 years for attempted murder;
Vincenzo Spano, considered one of the leaders of the Organized Committees for the Liberation of the Proletariat;
Massimo Carfora, who was sentenced to life imprisonment;
Giovanni Vegliacasa, member of Prima Linea;
Walter Grecchi, sentenced to 14 years for the murder of a police officer;
Giorgio Pietrostefani, sentenced to 22 years in prison along with Sofri and Bompressi for the murder of prosecutor Calabresi;
Simonetta Giorgieri and Carla Vendetti, suspected of contacts with the new Red Brigades, may also still be in France.

Reasons
The Mitterrand doctrine was upheld until the early 2000s by French intellectuals on the alleged nonconformity of Italian legislation with European standards.

The French President opposed aspects of the anti-terrorist laws passed in Italy during the 1970s and the 1980s that created the status of collaboratore di giustizia" ("collaborators with justice" known commonly as pentito), similar to the crown witness legislation in the United Kingdom and the Witness Protection Program in the United States in which people charged with crimes may become witnesses for the state and possibly receive reduced sentences and protection.

Italian legislation also provided that if a defendant can conduct his defence via his lawyers, trials held in absentia did not need to be repeated if he was eventually apprehended. The Italian in absentia procedure was upheld by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR).

Film 
 After the War (2017)

See also 
History of the Italian Republic
Strategy of tension

References

External links 
  La France, l’Italie face à la question des extraditions – Institut François Mitterrand
   (texts by Giorgio Agamben, Paolo Persichetti, Oreste Scalzone, news articles, etc.)
  Battisti se livre à la justice médiatique, Le Figaro
  Berlusconi, Chirac : deux hommes intègres face à Battisti, Le Grand Soir
  Cesare Battisti : l’État français aux ordres de Berlusconi, Politis, February 19, 2004
  Le fugitif raconte sa cavale dans un livre, La République des lettres

Contemporary French history
François Mitterrand
French Fifth Republic
Foreign policy doctrines
History of the Italian Republic
Years of Lead (Italy)
Extradition
France–Italy relations