[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alexander Cummings (territorial governor)

Alexander Cummings (November 17, 1810 – July 16, 1879) was an American newspaper publisher and Republican politician from Pennsylvania who served as the third Governor of the Territory of Colorado from 1865 to 1867. He was opposed to Colorado statehood and his term was contentious and riddled with controversy between pro-state and anti-state factions.

He published the Philadelphia North American, the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin and the New York World newspapers.  He worked as a special purchasing agent for the United States War Department during the American Civil War but was removed due to profiteering.  He recruited the Nineteenth Regiment of Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry and served as Colonel.  He served as Superintendent of Troops of African Descent for the State of Arkansas and was brevetted Brigadier General for meritorious service.  He worked as collector of internal revenue for the Fourth District of Pennsylvania and as U.S. Consul to the Kingdom of Hawaii.

Early life and newspaper publishing
Cummings was born in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, on November 11, 1810. He worked as a printer and in 1845 purchased a half interest in the Philadelphia North American newspaper. In 1847, he sold his half interest and published the first issue of Cummings' Evening Telegraphic Bulletin which evolved into  the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.  He remained publisher of the Bulletin until 1859 and then founded the New York World.  The World operated as a semi-religious newspaper but did not prosper under Cummings and in 1862 came under control of other owners who dropped the religious character and changed the politics from Republican to Democratic.  It was through the newspaper work that Cummings became associated with Simon Cameron who would become the Secretary of War under President Lincoln during the American Civil War.

American civil war
At the beginning of the American Civil War, Cummings used his political influence with Cameron to be appointed as a special purchasing agent for the War Department. He was assigned to expediting the defense of Washington D.C. which included arranging railroad transportation of troops and purchasing supplies.  Cummings wasted much of his $2,000,000 budget on overpriced purchases that were never used by troops.  He arranged for the purchase of 790 Halls carbines which the military had previously ruled as dangerous and obsolete. The U.S. government sold them for $3.50 each and Cummings purchased them back at $15 each. He also arranged the purchase of 1,670 dozen straw hats and 19,680 pairs of linen pants that were subsequently ruled out of uniform.  A committee on contracts assigned by the United States House of Representatives investigated Cummings financial expenditures and were never able to account for $140,000.  On April 30, 1862, the House of Representatives passed a resolution which stated:

He was discharged for profiteering and his political enemies labeled him with the nickname "Old Straw Hat".

After leaving the War Department, Cummings recruited the Nineteenth Regiment of Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry and became Colonel in October 1863.  The regiment saw action in Tennessee and Mississippi in 1864 but Cummings was not in command. In February 1864, Cummings was made Superintendent of Troops of African Descent for the State of Arkansas.  Cummings organized one colored battery of light artillery and five regiments of colored infantry. He was brevetted to the rank of Brigadier General by President Andrew Johnson for meritorious service.

Colorado territorial governor
President Johnson appointed Cummings the new Governor of the Territory of Colorado on October 17, 1865, to replace John Evans who resigned following the Sand Creek Massacre. Many of Evans' colleagues resented the forced change in leadership and opposed the new territorial Governor. Cummings was opposed to Colorado statehood and when he entered office, Colorado had already voted in favor of statehood and elected a state legislature and new governor in anticipation of a quick approval from Congress.  The newly elected "state" legislature met in December 1865 and elected John Evans and Jerome B. Chaffee as U.S. Senators. Cummings publicly refuted the authority of the "state" legislature and declared that the territorial government was the only legal government in Colorado. Colorado citizens were forced to take sides between pro-state and anti-state factions and the legitimacy of Cummings' authority.  President Johnson vetoed Colorado admission to statehood as the "state" constitution allowed only white males older than twenty-one the right to vote.