[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexandru Șerbănescu

u and Romania switched to the Allied side.

During his entire piloting career, Șerbănescu was credited with 47 confirmed victories (and 8 probable) in aerial combat which, with eight unconfirmed, yielded 55 points in the Romanian scoring system, second only to Constantin Cantacuzino with 69.

Legacy

The 23 August 1990 issue of The New York Times took note of Alexandru Şerbănescu's emerging post-Communist rehabilitation, stating that he had been recently commemorated by the daily România liberă with a front-page article. While the NYT issue acknowledges that he shot down some American aircraft,  it wrongly labels them as B-24 Liberators. Şerbănescu never shot down any B-24s, but a B-17 Flying Fortress and two P-51 Mustangs, plus an unconfirmed P-38 Lightning. Alexandru Şerbănescu was the top-scoring ace of Axis Romania: the country changed sides five days after his death and at the time of his death he was the top-scoring Romanian ace. In terms of the number of aircraft destroyed, he was credited with 47 confirmed victories and 8 probables. Having died fighting an enemy which enjoyed both technological and numerical supremacy, and not being "tainted" by any contribution to the campaign against the Axis, Şerbănescu became a legend among Romanians. The boulevard in Bucharest that today bears his name is a unique tribute to a Romanian wartime pilot.
    
Today, a boulevard in Bucharest bears his name and passes very close to Aurel Vlaicu Airport. Each year, on 18 August, veterans, air force officers and aviation enthusiasts gather at his tomb to commemorate him. On August 18, 2004, the 30th Honor Guard Regiment commemorated, with military honors, the sixty years that had passed since Capt. Şerbănescu was killed in action.

On December 1, 2006, the 95th Air Base of the Romanian Air Force received the honorific title Cpt. Av. Alexandru Șerbănescu.

See also

List of World War II flying aces from Romania
Horia Agarici
Constantin Cantacuzino
Romanian Air Force

References

Notes

Bibliography

Dénes Bernád, Rumanian Aces of World War 2, Osprey Publishing, Botley, Oxfordshire, 2003 
Ion Bucurescu, Aviația Română pe Frontul de Est și în apărarea teritoriului Vol. I; II (Romanian Aviation on the Eastern Front and in defense of the national territory), Editura Fast Print, 1994.

Vasile Tudor, Un nume de legenda – Cpt. av. erou Alexandru Șerbănescu (A legendary name, Captain Alexandru Șerbănescu), Editura MODELISM, 1998.

1912 births
1944 deaths
Romanian military personnel killed in World War II
Recipients of the Order of Michael the Brave
Romanian Air Force officers
Romanian World War II flying aces
Aviators killed by being shot down
Burials at Ghencea Cemetery
People from Olt County
Officers of the Order of the Star of Romania
Recipients of the Iron Cross (1939), 1st class
Recipients of the Order of the Crown (Romania)