[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Hampden Grammar School

to where the present one is located – and the girls had to change behind the large roller. The school motto Quit Ye Like Men, adapted from I Corinthians 16 v13, was adopted in 1924. It remained the motto even during the co-ed period – girls were admitted in 1925 mainly to study commercial subjects.

Following the introduction of the Education Act 1944, the Institute became the town's new technical school taking children at 11 and 13 plus. In 1946 it was decided to split the school and college although both still operated in the same building. By 1954, the combined school and further education centre had become vastly over-subscribed and unwieldy. Consequently, the High Wycombe College of Further Education was set up on its present site (now Bucks New University) although the final separation of pupils did not come about until 1963. In 1956 the girls transferred to the old Wycombe High School buildings in Benjamin Road to form Lady Verney High School. Lady Verney High School then moved to Wellsborne before finally merging with Wycombe High School.

John Hampden and Marlow Hill: 1966–present

The boys remained at Easton Street as Wycombe Technical High School for a further 10 years before moving to the present site, the school playing fields at the top of Marlow Hill in 1966. Most of the valuable historic reminders of the early days of the Technical Institute ended up on a bonfire in the massive clearing out operation when the school moved to Marlow Hill. The only exceptions to this were the headmaster's chair, the headmaster's table, engraved with the school motto, and a carved set of 12 lockers. The lockers were designed in 1919 by Mr Shaw Wilson, head of the wood carving department and created by wounded soldiers who had returned from the war. Inscribed on the cornice are the words "They counted not their lives dear unto themselves."

The name was changed to John Hampden School in 1970 and John Hampden Grammar School in 1984. More recent developments gave the school a new façade in September 1995 and the following January work was completed on a sixth-form block to provide specialist teaching rooms, private study rooms, a common room and a new library. In 2002, funding from the Wolfson Foundation allowed a new language teaching facility and science laboratory to be opened.

In 2006 a new classroom block, used mainly for mathematics teaching, and a sports hall were opened by former Arsenal goalkeeper Bob Wilson. This in turn allowed for an extension of the music department and development of a music studio.

On 4 November 2010, a gas explosion occurred in the caretaker's house on the premises. In the incident, the school's caretaker was airlifted to hospital with serious burns and the school evacuated. After the explosion the school raised money for the caretaker in his recovery by means of a Mufti Day where pupils came to school in their own clothes as opposed to the standard uniform.

On 1 June 2011 Michael Gove, the Secretary of State for Education, approved the school's application to become an Academy. Also in 2011, a food technology room was opened, following a successful planning application the previous year. A proposal was made to relocate a Synthetic Turf Pitch, which was at the time located at the Handy Cross leisure centre, to the JHGS site as part of a wider redevelopment of the leisure centre. Construction work was underway as of October 2013, and was in use by late January 2014.

In 2013, an extension to the Sixth Form block incorporating a new library was built.

In May 2019, a planning application was submitted for the construction of a new three storey classroom block on the front of the site. The project was initially announced in December 2018, when the school received around £3m of funding from the Department for Education's selective school expansion fund, which proved controversial. The new building, named the "Innovation Hub", was opened in October 2021 by football executives David Dein and Karren Brady.

Headteachers

There have only been six headteachers in the history of the school. The management of the original schools was vested in the trustees who in turn entrusted day-to-day control to art masters Henry Bayfield and Shaw Wilson and the Education Committee secretary WT Pycraft. The secretary was replaced by Hamilton Haddow and in 1913 by Arthur Gardham. W. J. Stamps took over from Bayfield in 1911 and he ultimately became Headmaster of the School of Art. The first headmaster (known in 1920 as Principal) of the Technical School was Arthur Gardham who joined in 1913 and won the MC with the Royal Garrison Artillery during the First World War. The former army captain is remembered by old boys as a determined character who liked to get his own way. As a result of his wartime injuries he always carried a walking stick. He would hold a daily roll call on the Fives Court when he inspected hair, shoes and general tidiness.