[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mabelvale

and ran for the state legislature in 1888 as a third-party candidate.  Despite a theft of ballot boxes by his opponents, he and his running mates were eventually declared victorious and assumed their seats as Pulaski County state representatives in the Arkansas General Assembly on February 18, 1889.

In addition to their public service as office-holders, both men are remembered for their community involvements and philanthropic contributions to the Mabelvale community.  During the era of the Second World War, Amos Morehart deeded a parcel of his land to the local chapter of the American Legion, to be used as the location for a new Legion meeting post. Earlier, his father, Henry Morehart, donated several acres of his farm on Sardis Road (which he had homesteaded beginning in 1881), so that they could be used as the location for Mabelvale's pioneer Good Hope School.

A number of descendants of Amos and Henry Morehart still reside in the Mabelvale area.

While Morehart Park is by far the largest park within Mabelvale, a non-contiguous much smaller park lies just to its north.  Known as Little Oaks Park, this smaller recreational area was begun as a ballpark for Little League games.  Located near the intersection of Leah Lane and Sardis Road in downtown Mabelvale, its name may have derived from the old adage, "From a small acorn a mighty oak will grow."

Shopping
Located on the southwestern corner of Mabelvale and Otter Creek is The Outlets of Little Rock. Opening on 15 October 2015, it is Arkansas’s only outlet shopping center.

Community organizations

The Vedanta Society of Arkansas has a temple in Mabelvale. Other community groups include Adoniram Lodge Number 288 of Free and Accepted Masons and its affiliated Masonic organizations, Adoniram Chapter Number 604 of the Order of Eastern Star for women and Adoniram Assembly Number 99 of the International Order of the Rainbow for girls. All three of these latter groups meet regularly at the Masonic Temple, which is located at 9725 Mabelvale Main Street, on the southeast corner of Mabelvale Main and Sardis Road.

References

External links
 

Neighborhoods in Little Rock, Arkansas