[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Title VIII of the Patriot Act

Title VIII: Strengthening the criminal laws against terrorism is the eighth of ten titles which comprise the USA PATRIOT Act, an anti-terrorism bill passed in the United States one month after the September 11, 2001 attacks.  Title VIII contains 17 sections and creates definitions of terrorism, and establishes or re-defines rules with which to deal with it.

Attacks on mass transportation systems 
The U.S. Code has a number of regulations concerning railroads. Section 801 added a new section  that punishes those who
 wreck, demolish, set fire to, or disables a mass transportation vehicle or ferry,
 uses a biological agent or toxin on a train or mass transportation device, without previously obtaining the permission of the mass transportation provider, to cause injury or death,
 places any biological agent or toxin as a weapon near the facilities of a railroad in order to derail, disable, or wreck the transportation mechanisms,
 does something to impair the running of the transportation system, including removing or damaging a train control system, centralized dispatching system, or rail grade crossing warning signal,
 interferes with, disables, or incapacitates any dispatcher, train driver, captain, or person while they are dispatching, operating, or maintaining a mass transportation vehicle or ferry in order to cause harm or death to passengers,
 does something to cause death or serious bodily injury to an employee or passenger of a mass transportation provider, or
 makes false allegations that an attempt or alleged attempt is being undertaken to perform a prohibited activity on a mass transportation system
If such an offense is committed, then the offender is to be fined and/or imprisoned for not more than twenty years.  However, if the activity was undertaken while the mass transportation vehicle or ferry was carrying a passenger at the time of the offense, or the offense resulted in the death of any person, then the punishment is a fine and/or life imprisonment.

Biological weapons 
Section 817 of the Patriot Act expands the biological weapons statute.  was amended to define the use of a biological agent, toxin, or delivery system as a weapon, other than when it is used for "prophylactic, protective, bona fide research, or other peaceful purposes".  The Patriot Act created a penalty of more than 10 years imprisonment, a fine for anyone who cannot prove reasonably that they are using a biological agent, toxin, or delivery system for these purposes, or both. Section 817 also prevents certain people from shipping, transporting or receiving a select biological agent Those who are restricted are those who are under indictment or have been convicted of a crime that is punishable with a jail sentence of over a year, is a fugitive from justice, convicted drug users, illegal aliens, aliens from certain countries that have been deemed to have provided support for acts of international terrorism, and those who are mentally ill and who have been committed to a mental institution. Penalties for those who are prohibited from transporting or receiving selected agents are fines, punishment of not more than 10 years imprisonment, or both.

Terrorist support 
A number of measures were undertaken in an attempt to prevent and penalize activities that are deemed to support terrorism. Section 803 of the Patriot Act amends the statute on terrorism to include a new section to prevent the harboring of or concealment of terrorists. This states than any person who "harbors or conceals" someone whom they know or believe to have committed an offense designated under 11 specific other codes will be subject to a fine or imprisonment of up to ten years, or both. These violations may be prosecuted in any Federal judicial district where the offense was committed, or in another Federal district as provided by law.

Section 805 modifies the statute on providing material support to terrorists so that a person being prosecuted "may be prosecuted in any Federal judicial district" where the offense was committed, "or in any other Federal judicial district as provided by law." It also adds four codes to be considered under the title.  defines "providing material support to terrorists" in subsection (b). Section 805 changes this definition by adding "expert advice or assistance" and "monetary instruments."

Section 807 of the Patriot Act made a technical clarification that nothing in the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 would limit criminal prohibitions against the provision of material support to terrorists and terrorist organizations.

Section 806 of the Patriot Act amends U.S. forfeiture law  to allow authorities to seize all foreign and domestic assets from any group or individual that is caught planning to commit acts of terrorism against the U.S. or U.S. citizens.  Assets may also be seized if they have been acquired or maintained by an individual or organization for the purposes of further terrorist activities.