[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bruno Tesch

Bruno Emil Tesch (14 August 1890 – 16 May 1946) was a German chemist and entrepreneur. Together with Gerhard Peters and Walter Heerdt, he invented the insecticide Zyklon B. He was the owner of Tesch & Stabenow (called Testa), a pest control company he co-founded in 1924 with Paul Stabenow in Hamburg, Germany. During the Holocaust, Tesch sold vast quantities of Zyklon B, utilizing his pesticide as a way to commit genocide. Over 1.1 million people were murdered by the Nazis using Zyklon B.

Following the end of World War II, he was arrested by the British as a war criminal, tried, and executed. Tesch and his deputy executive, Karl Weinbacher, were the only businessmen to be executed for their role in Nazi war crimes in Western Europe.

Early life and education

Tesch studied mathematics and physics for a semester in 1910 at the University of Göttingen before studying chemistry at the University of Berlin. He received his degree in 1914, then obtained a position at Kaiser Wilhelm Institute. Tesch joined the Nazi Party on May 1, 1933, albeit he was not an active member. He became a supporting member of the SS the same year.

When Emil Sehm, a former employee of Tesch who would become an important witness at his trial, was asked to give his opinion about him, he said Tesch was not motivated by ideology, but purely material gain."Dr. Tesch was solely a business man and, according to my opinion, he was a very unscrupulous business man, a business man who would be prepared to walk over dead bodies; that is my opinion."

Zyklon B
Tesch, along with fellow chemists Gerhard Peters and Walter Heerdt, with the support of I.G. Farben, began research into the use of hydrogen cyanide as a fumigating agent. They developed a process in which the hydrogen cyanide could be manufactured and used in a solid form.

The patent was assigned to Degesch, "Deutsche Gesellschaft für Schädlingsbekämpfung mbH" (German Limited Company for Pest Control), subsidiary of I.G. Farben, with Walter Heerdt being the only one of the inventors to receive patent rights, a portion of the proceeds from the manufacture and sale. Peters joined Degesch and would become managing director during World War II. Degesch was designated by the German government to set the safety rules and standards for the use of Zyklon B, and was given the authority to authorize shipments from the manufacturer to the customer after the strict criteria were met.

Tesch & Stabenow manufactured neither Zyklon B nor any other chemicals. It was primarily a pest control company specializing in fumigation of commercial properties such as the warehouses and freighters in the Port of Hamburg. Zyklon B was produced by Dessauer Werke and Kaliwerke. 

In 1925, Tesch & Stabenow—partly due to the largesse of Paul Haber of Degesch—received the exclusive rights to distribute the insecticide Zyklon B east of the Elbe River. In 1927, Stabenow departed from the firm. Tesch held a 45% share of the company and Degesch held 55%. Tesch assumed sole ownership of the company in 1942.

During World War II, Tesch & Stabenow would sell massive quantities of Zyklon B to the SS. The gas was sold to Auschwitz concentration camp, Sachsenhausen concentration camp, Neuengamme concentration camp, Gross-Rosen concentration camp, Majdanek concentration camp, and Ravensbrück concentration camp. In these camps, the SS used the Zyklon B they had purchased to murder approximately 1.1 million people.

Arrest and investigation
An investigation into Tesch started after a former Testa bookkeeper, Emil Sehm, wrote to British military authorities, who were present in Hamburg since the city was in the British military government's zone of Allied-occupied Germany. Sehm said that in 1942, he had come across one of Tesch's travel reports. In it, Tesch had recorded an interview with leading members of the Wehrmacht, during which he was told that the burial, after shooting, of Jews in increasing numbers was proving increasingly unhygienic, and that it was proposed to kill them with prussic acid. Allegedly, when Tesch was asked for his views, he had proposed to use the same method, involving the release of prussic acid gas in an enclosed space, as was to exterminate vermin. He had then trained the SS to use Zyklon B to kill human beings.

Sehm said he copied this report and showed it to a close friend, Wilhelm Pook. Pook advised Sehm to destroy the letter immediately since keeping the letter posed a safety risk. Sehm destroyed the letter. He was fired for unknown reasons after the firm building suffered an air raid in July 1943.

Tesch was detained in September 1945. British officers Walter Freud and Fred Pelican were assigned to the case. The day after Tesch's arrest, Sehm accompanied the British to the firm building, only to find that registry had seemingly been destroyed in an air raid (it was later suspected that the registry had been intentionally destroyed).