[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The System of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether

defense were criticized for allowing criminals to avoid punishment.

The story has been interpreted as a satirical political commentary on American democracy, a parody of the work of Charles Dickens and Nathaniel Parker Willis, and is also understood as a critique on 19th-century medical practices.

Adaptations
One of the plays given at the Theatre du Grand Guignol in Paris was "Le Systéme du Dr Goudron et Pr Plume" (1903), adapted by André de Lorde. 
The French film Le système du docteur Goudron et du professeur Plume, also known as The System of Doctor Goudron and The Lunatics (1913), directed by Maurice Tourneur.
The German film Unheimliche Geschichten (1932) is based on two stories by Poe: "The Black Cat" and "The System of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether".
An opera called Il sistema della dolcezza (1948), composed by Vieri Tosatti.
The Spanish film Manicomio (1954) is based on stories by several authors, including Poe's "The System of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether".
An episode of The Alfred Hitchcock Hour entitled "A Home Away from Home" (27 September 1963), starring Ray Milland.
The Polish TV movie System (1972).
The surreal Mexican film La mansión de la locura (1973), in English The Mansion of Madness (aka Dr. Tarr's Torture Dungeon/House of Madness) by Juan López Moctezuma. 
Director S. F. Brownrigg's movie The Forgotten (1973), also known as Death Ward #13 and Don't Look in the Basement.
"(The System of) Dr. Tarr and Professor Fether" is the fifth track on Tales of Mystery and Imagination, an album by The Alan Parsons Project of music inspired by the works of Edgar Allan Poe.
Czech filmmaker Jan Švankmajer based part of his film Lunacy on this story. The film was also inspired by Poe's 1844 short story "The Premature Burial", as well as the works of the Marquis de Sade.
A one-act opera called A Method for Madness (1999), composed by David S. Bernstein to a libretto by Charles Kondek.
The animated Spanish film Gritos en el Pasillo (2007), in english Going Nuts, directed by Juanjo Ramírez, is a stop motion movie with peanuts, inspired in part by the story.
The story has been adapted for short films, including The System of Dr. Tarr and Professor Fether (2008) (changing the location to Philadelphia) and Tohtori Tarrin ja professori Featherin menetelmä (2012).
A 2014 film adaptation is titled Stonehearst Asylum.

See also
 O alienista, a satiric novella by Machado de Assis about an asylum

References

External links
 
 Full text on PoeStories.com with hyperlinked vocabulary words.
 

Short stories by Edgar Allan Poe
Works adapted into operas
1845 short stories
Works originally published in Graham's Magazine
Works set in psychiatric hospitals
Mental health in France
Short stories adapted into films
Short stories set in France