[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Reuben H. Walworth

's attention because of his widely respected opinions on evidence, pleadings, civil procedure, and arbitration. Tyler nominated him to the Supreme Court of the United States three times in 1844, but the nomination was always postponed due to Tyler's lack of support from both Whigs and the Democrats.

In 1848, Walworth was the Hunkers' candidate for Governor of New York, but was defeated in a three-way race by Whig Hamilton Fish.

In 1850, the United States Supreme Court appointed Walworth to serve as a commissioner (now special master) in litigation concerning the new Wheeling Suspension Bridge, the first bridge to cross a major river west of the Appalachian Mountains. The justices had divided during the previous years concerning the scope of the federal power in the Commerce Clause as well as concurrent state powers. In 1847, in U.S. v. New Bedford Bridge Company Justice Levi Woodbury on circuit duty had determined that no federal law defined obstruction of navigable waterways and upheld a drawbridge near the port, and Justice Samuel Nelson had done similarly while a justice of the New York Supreme Court. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (through its attorney general Cornelius Darragh) and Pittsburgh interests represented by Edwin M. Stanton and Robert J. Walker had brought this litigation in the United States Supreme Court by seeking an injunction against the bridge from the justice responsible for that geographic area, former Pennsylvania judge for the Pittsburgh area, Robert C. Grier. The Wheeling Bridge Company was represented by Charles W. Russell and U.S. Attorney general Reverdy Johnson (supposedly in a private capacity but who had denied Pennsylvania's request for his federal office's assistance)), among others. They argued the bridge helped the U.S. mails (delayed during ice and high and low water periods), connected military outposts, and that the public had a right to cross the river. Crucial to the equity required for the sought-after injunction, they argued, Pennsylvania had delayed two years while the bridge was under construction, as well as failed to prove irremediable injury (because technology also existed to lower steamboat smokestacks, as was necessary to use a downriver canal near Louisville, Kentucky. After Justice Grier held a hearing in Philadelphia on August 16, 1849, on August 30 he refused the requested injunction to remove the bridge. Instead, he referred the matter to the full court. That heard argument on February 25, 1850, reviewed extensive depositions (361 printed pages) and then on May 29, 1850, Justice Nelson (over a dissent by Justice Peter V. Daniel who would have refused jurisdiction altogether) issued a one-page order appointing Walworth as commissioner.

Walworth received much scientific and commercial evidence, including a report from U.S. Army engineer William Jarvis McAlpine. However, both parties were dissatisfied with Walworth's 770-page report, which he issued in December 1851. Pittsburgh was disappointed that Walworth refused to order the bridge removed. Virginia and Ohio interests complained because he found the waterway obstructed and recommended raising the bridge an additional 20 feet—which would cause enormous technical difficulties and additional cost. However, after reviewing both parties' exceptions, receiving another report from McAlpine and hearing more argument on February 23 and 24, the U.S. Supreme Court also refused to order the bridge removed, but instead amended the new required height to 111 feet. However, the bridge then disintegrated during an May 1854 windstorm and was rebuilt in eight weeks despite an injunction against such by Justice Grier (hence the 1856 litigation).  Nonetheless, Walworth's report undergirded the Court's decisions in both 1852 as well as 1856 (the latter decision also relying on additional federal legislation). Completion of the B&O Railroad to Wheeling, and competition from a new steamboat line connection Wheeling with Louisville proved fatal to both steamboat companies, who soon dismantled their ships or sold them downriver for the Mississippi trade. Furthermore, additional bridges across the Ohio River were proposed for Parkersburg, Bellaire and Steubenville. A truss pivot drawbridge across the Mississippi River between Davenport, Iowa and Rock Island, Illinois was completed in 1856.

Returning to private legal practice, Walworth grew wealthy representing railroads in other litigation. He expanded the family mansion.