[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# What Is the What

t decided whether I was just helping Valentino write his own book, or if I was writing a book about him." Valentino points out that, "I thought I might want to write my own book, but I learned that I was not ready to do this. I was still taking classes in basic writing at Georgia Perimeter College."

Dave Eggers discusses the difficulties in writing a book of this nature: 
"For a long while there, we continued doing interviews, and I gathered the material. But all along, I really didn’t know exactly what form it would finally take—whether it would be first person or third, whether it would be fiction or nonfiction. After about eighteen months of struggle with it, we settled on a fictionalized autobiography, in Valentino’s voice." Eggers explains that this choice was made because "Valentino’s voice is so distinct and unforgettable that any other authorial voice would pale by comparison. Very early on, when the book was in a more straightforward authorial voice, I missed the voice I was hearing on the tapes. So writing in Val's voice solved both problems: I could disappear completely, and the reader would have the benefit of his very distinct voice."

In 2007 Ohio State University selected the novel as one of two choices for the freshmen book club, and distributed thousands of copies to incoming students.
Duke University required the incoming Class of 2012 to read the novel, praising its literary merit.
The University of Maryland chose it as their freshman book in 2009. Macalester College required all incoming freshmen to read it in 2011.  The University of Maine required first-year students in its Honors College to read the novel in 2012.

The novel inspired some of the lyrics from David Byrne and Brian Eno's album Everything That Happens Will Happen Today.

Tom Tykwer plans to adapt the novel into a film.
In 2009, the novel received the Prix Médicis étranger in France.

See also

Dinka people
Lost Boys of Sudan
Mary Williams (activist)

References

External links
The Valentino Achak Deng Foundation
Readers Guide - pdf
"The Lost Boy", reviewed by Francine Prose, New York Times, December 24, 2006
"True Grit", reviewed by Caroline Moorehead in Slate, Tuesday, Dec. 5, 2006
"Eggers Blends Fact, Fiction of Sudanese 'Lost Boys'", Deng and Eggers interviewed on NPR, November 1, 2006
'What is the Point?', review of What is the What in the Oxonian Review

2006 American novels
Lost Boys of Sudan
McSweeney's books
Novels by Dave Eggers
Novels set in Sudan
Non-fiction novels
Refugees and displaced people in fiction
Books about refugees