[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Exterminator 2

e due to more indecisiveness from Buntzman, who could not think of a better name. It was also Sachs' idea to make the character more central.

Even in post-production, the film met with some troubles. The MPAA made Sachs cut down an early gory scene in which an elderly couple is shot up by the gang:

In the interview Sachs also had a funny anecdote about the casting of Arye Gross, who played gang member Turbo in the movie: "He came in and read for me, and he was talking like Marlon Brando, through his nose. It was fantastic, so I gave him the part. And when we did the scene, he didn't talk like that. I said, 'You're not talking like you did in your reading!' And he said, 'I had a cold'".

Sachs tried to get co-director credit for his work on Exterminator 2 but wound up accepting a co-writer and "additional scenes directed by" credit due to a legal battle with Buntzman.

Reshoots
The original script for the film was very different to the one released; several original scenes were removed and new scenes were filmed to cobble a different storyline together. Some of the original scenes are in the wrong order, for example the exterminator goes to Caroline's home early in the film but then travels in the garbage truck with her later in the film where Caroline is wearing the outfit from the previous scene in the movie.

Ginty couldn't return for reshoots for the scenes in which John wears a fireproof mask and burns down the gang members with a flamethrower. Those scenes were filmed with Robert Ginty's stunt double. Originally the only scene where John used the flamethrower to kill the gang members was in the ending when he burns the last few after he already killed most of the others with weapons from the garbage truck. A double was used for scenes where his face is not seen and the most obvious scene is when he phones Caroline and then runs to her home to find her dead. Deborah Geffner wasn't asked to return as Caroline because all her scenes would have been with Ginty, so a body double was used for the shot of her nude dead body. Mario Van Peebles and Frankie Faison did return for the reshoots.

The original rough cut of the film has never been released.

Alternative or missing scenes

The theatrical trailer shows the following deleted and alternate scenes from the original rough cut of the movie:
 
 Nightclub explosion scene that happens after the gang shoots down a police helicopter which crashes on it. The helicopter pilot is shown burning a little longer while he tries to get out of the burning helicopter. There is also a shot of a wounded John looking at this helplessly.
 John and Caroline trying to help someone who got hurt during the explosion by pressing something on his wound.
 X pointing at something and screaming while standing on an armored car.
 X and John see each other for the first time face to face and X points his finger at John. This scene happened after the helicopter crash and club explosion. Originally there was a part where John and Be Gee try to stop gang members from robbing the armored car with Be Gee chasing them in his garbage truck and John fighting with them on the street.
 Chase scene between Be Gee's garbage truck and the armored car driven by gang members. Originally this scene happened after the gang shoots down the helicopter.
 Completely deleted club explosion scene and John's fight with gang members on the street.
 Another deleted garbage truck chase scene. John and Caroline are driving in the garbage truck, but they are attacked by gang members who jump on the sides of the truck. John manages to get rid of one when he slams him into the light pole or something.
 Differently edited dialogue scene in the club between John and Be Gee.
 A couple of more extra shots from the scene when gang members attack Caroline while she is with John in the park.
 Alternative mirrored shot of X shooting at Be Gee.
 
Some lobby cards and stills also show several scenes cut from the movie:
 
 John looking at wounded and dead people inside the club after the helicopter crashes on it and explodes.
 Caroline helping someone who got injured in the same deleted club explosion scene.
 John throwing the wheel cap on one of the gang members, who jumps onto Be Gee's garbage truck when he tries to stop the gang members from stealing the armored car.
 After the armored car robbery and his fight with the gang members, John escapes from the police and is hiding somewhere while his head is covered with blood due to the injury he got during the club explosion.
 Caroline taking care of John's head wound.
 Longer version of the scene where X and his gang members attack Caroline in the park.
 Some lobby cards show pictures from the original ending with John and X fighting with each other next to the garbage truck and the wounded X kneeling on the ground while some cop is pointing his shotgun at him.