[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Liberal democracy

ndividual. Examples of these can vary from freedom of movement via control on immigration, or opposition to liberal social values such as gay marriage. Populists do this by appealing to the feelings and emotions of the people whilst offering solutions - often vastly simplified - to complex problems.

Populism is a particular threat to the liberal democracy because it exploits the weaknesses of the liberal democratic system. A key weakness of liberal democracies highlighted in 'How Democracies Die', is the conundrum that suppressing populist movements or parties can be seen to be illiberal. Another reason that populism is a threat to liberal democracy is because it exploits the inherent differences between 'Democracy' and 'Liberalism'. For liberal democracy to be effective, a degree of compromise is required as protecting the rights of the individual take precedence if they are threatened by the will of the majority, more commonly known as a tyranny of the majority. Majoritarianism is so ingrained in populism that this core value of a liberal democracy is under threat. This therefore brings into question how effectively liberal democracy can defend itself from populism.

According to Takis Papas in his work Populism and Liberal Democracy: A Comparative and Theoretical Analysis, "democracy has two opposites, one liberal, the other populist". Whereas liberalism accepts a notion of society composed of multiple divisions, populism only acknowledges a society of 'the people' versus 'the elites'. The fundamental beliefs of the populist voter consist of: the belief that oneself is powerless and is a victim of the powerful; a "sense of enmity" rooted in "moral indignation and resentfulness"; and a "longing for future redemption" through the actions of a charismatic leader. Papas says this mindset results in a feeling of victimhood caused by the belief that the society is "made up of victims and perpetrators". Other characteristic of a populist voter is that they are "distinctively irrational" because of the "disproportionate role of emotions and morality" when making a political decision like voting. Moreover, through self-deception they are "wilfully ignorant". In addition, they are "intuitively… and unsettlingly principled" rather than a more "pragmatic" liberal voter.

An example of a populist movement is the 2016 Brexit campaign. The role of the 'elite' in this circumstance was played by the EU and 'London-centric liberals', while the Brexit campaign appealed to workers in industries such as agriculture who were allegedly worse off due to EU membership. This case study also illustrates the potential threat populism can pose to a liberal democracy with the movement heavily relying on disdain for the media. This was done by labeling criticism of Brexit as 'Project Fear'.

See also 

 Constitutional liberalism
 Centrism
 Conservative liberalism
 Democratic backsliding
 Democratic ideals
 Economic liberalism
 Elective rights
 Good governance
 History of democracy
 Illiberal democracy
 Index of politics articles
 Jeffersonian democracy
 Neoliberalism
 Republicanism
 Social democracy
 Social liberalism
 Liberal conservatism

References

Further reading 

 Ghasemi, Mehdi. "Paradigms of Postmodern Democracy." SAGE Open, 2019, April–June: 1–6.
 Haas, Michael (2014). Deconstructing the 'Democratic Peace': How a Research Agenda Boomeranged. Los Angeles, CA: Publishinghouse for Scholars. 
 Willard, Charles Arthur (1996). Liberalism and the Problem of Knowledge: A New Rhetoric for Modern Democracy. University of Chicago Press. .  .

Democracy
Types of democracy