[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Somkid Jatusripitak

ed the universal healthcare program, 1 million THB development funds for each of Thailand's 70,000 villages, a 3-year loan freeze for farmers, fast-track privatization of state enterprises, and a national asset management corporation (AMC) to buy up the $20 billion in bad debt carried by Thai banks.

Somkid also pioneered the TRT party's rural small and medium enterprise (SME) policy. Noting that agriculture remains the most important economic sector, employing 60-70% of the Thai population, the economic challenge was to develop the agricultural sector and link it with the modern sector.  This became one of the founding principles of the Thaksin government's popular One Tambon One Product (OTOP) program.

At the time, The Nation newspaper exclaimed that these policies "amount to a revolution in Thai public policy".

Minister in Thaksin's government
From the TRT's landslide election win of 2001, Somkid was a core member of Thakin's economic inner cabinet - starting off as Finance Minister and then becoming Commerce Minister.

Finance Minister

In his term as Finance Minister (February 2001 to February 2003), Somkid
oversaw a management reshuffle at state-owned Thai Airways International
led the establishment of the national asset management corporation (AMC)
supported the controversial restructuring of Prachai Leophai-ratana's Thai Petrochemical Industry (TPI)
In 2002, Somkid established the village fund program. This program gave each of Thailand's 70,000 villages a self-managed fund of 1 million THB (approx. US$25,000), to be used for grassroots social and economic investments.

Commerce Minister

In his term as Commerce Minister (August 2005 to September 2006), Somkid
 oversaw the recovery of tourism industry in the Andaman coast after the tsunami of 2004
 agreed to draw up a comprehensive road map for increasing trade, investment and cooperation with the United Kingdom
 boosted Board of Investment incentives in three target sectors - electronics, petrochemicals and vehicle tyres

During the anti-Thaksin demonstrations of 2005-2006, Thaksin noted that Somkid was one of four individuals who might succeed him as Prime Minister if he stepped down.

In March 2006, during the height of the anti-Thaksin protests, Somkid underwent balloon angioplasty surgery to relieve a blood clot in an artery near his heart.

After Thaksin Shinawatra's announcement that he would not accept the Premiership from Parliament after the April 2006 elections, Somkid was widely seen as a potential replacement. In a poll of businessmen, 57% said Somkid was the most suitable candidate for new premier. The next highest TRT politician was Bhokin Bhalakula, who received only 12%. Soon later, a broad coalition of TRT factions, including Wang Nam Yom (130 MPs), Rim Nam (15 MPs), Lamtakong (7 MPs), Wang Phya Nag (10 MPs), Chon Buri (7 MPs) and the Central provinces (10 MPs) decided to push for Somkid Jatusripitak as the next prime minister.

Aftermath of the 2006 coup
The Thai military staged a successful coup against the Thaksin government on 19 September 2006.  At the time, Somkid was in Paris, attending the Thai-France Cultural Exhibition with Princess Sirindhorn and Foreign Minister Kantathi Supamongkhon. On 21 September 2006 arrived back to Bangkok.   Unlike several other senior members of Thaksin's Cabinet, he was not arrested by the junta.  Somkid kept a low profile, until on 2 October 2006 he resigned from the  Thai Rak Thai Party, along with Thaksin Shinawatra.

He continued to lead a low profile, until in February 2007, he was appointed head of a government committee charged with "preaching" King Bhumibol's self-sufficient economy policy. The appointment provoked great controversy, as critics claimed that the populist economics czar had no role promoting self-sufficiency. Somkid appointment was supported by General Saprang Kalyanamitr, a powerful member of the junta, and Sondhi Limthongkul of the People's Alliance for Democracy, a long-time colleague of Somkid's. Somkid later decided to resign from the committee, which was then dissolved. Somkid's long-time rival, Finance Minister Pridiyathorn Devakula volunteered to help perform the committee's role, and denied any role in Somkid's resignation.

In early May 2007, a group of former elected senators said they were ready to support Somkid in forming a new political party, the so-called Dharma Thippatai group. Among those included Suraporn Danaitangtrakoon, Anek Laothamatas (former leader of the Mahachon Party), and former Thai Rak Thai members Suranand Vejjajiva and Pimol Srivikorn. On 26 June 2007, they founded Ruam Jai Thai. However, on 30 May 2007 the Constitutional Tribunal had produced a verdict, barring all 111 former executive members of Thai Rak Thai Party, including Somkid, from holding political office for five years.