[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sarah Jane Brown

ho died at ten days old. Gordon spoke of Sarah's bravery after their daughter's death.

On 17 October 2003, she gave birth to their second child and first son, John. Another son, James Fraser, arrived on 17 July 2006 and was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis that November.

Spouse of the Prime Minister

Gordon Brown became Prime Minister on 27 June 2007, following the resignation of Tony Blair. As wife of the Prime Minister, Sarah Brown was generally viewed favourably. The Guardian noted her public image, describing her as "a truly modern public figure: talkative, empathetic, informal but infinitely connected, ubiquitous as any celebrity, an avid exploiter of new digital media, an expert assembler of charitable and political coalitions", noting "her positive profile could be the best thing Labour has got going for it with the election looming."  The Telegraph noted that " It is hard to find people with a bad word to say about Mrs Brown."

Sarah introduced Gordon at the 2008 and 2009 Labour Party Conferences. It was her idea to do so at the 2008 conference, after having seen the similar role Michelle Obama had performed for her husband, the United States President Barack Obama.

According to Anthony Seldon and Guy Lodge, the authors of a book on Gordon's tenure as Prime Minister, Sarah brought stability to both Gordon and his office, and was "a forceful voice in encouraging him to stay on until the very end". That end came following the 2010 General Election, which resulted in the first hung parliament since 1974. The Conservative Party led by David Cameron won the most seats, and on 11 May 2010 formed a government in coalition with the Liberal Democrats after her husband's attempts to keep Labour in power failed.

Memoir

Brown published a memoir of her role as the Prime Minister's spouse, entitled Behind the Black Door, through Ebury Press in 2011.

The book received a mixed reception from reviewers. Written in a diary style, the New Statesman referred to it as a "domestic take on politics". While Woman's Own called it "fascinating and endearing", the London Evening Standard described it as "perhaps the dimmest diary ever to have been professionally published" and "one long, formulaic press release in praise of Gordon Brown."

The Telegraph concludes it is a "strange book" and "plea for redemption" though the reviewer decides that Brown's description of the international charity circuit is "fun at last", and that Brown "wins sympathy that boastfulness would have forfeited."

The Irish Independent describes the book as a "disturbingly giddy, schoolgirlish, exclamation mark-littered diary form" and "nothing in the slightest bit revelatory about it... tiptoeingly discreet", but that "Brown comes across in these pages as a decent and likeable" with "enough gossipy details to satisfy star-hungry readers", with Caitlin Moran declaring: "School run, conference call, Obama for tea – Sarah Brown smiled, and tweeted, through it all. I love this woman."

The New Statesman observed that Brown successfully describes "the awkwardness of the lifestyle" and "the vagueness of the position", and that while "political events and what must have been some fairly traumatic personal moments" seem "airbrushed", leaving "the diary feeling a little empty", the book demonstrates how "collision of the political with the personal... jars and is sometimes funny", concluding it is full of "thoughtfulness and... courtesy", "precisely the sort of thing that is genuine Sarah Brown".

Commenting on some of the reaction to the book, David Mitchell noted in The Guardian that "The amount of crap we expect prime ministers' wives to endure, unpaid, for having the temerity to be married to the country's most successful politician is a national disgrace", and The Lady magazine concluded that "whatever reviewers say, she is a natural heroine to the Mumsnet demographic".

References

External links
 Official Website of the Office of Gordon and Sarah Brown
 Theirworld
 Global Business Coalition for Education

1963 births
Living people
20th-century English businesspeople
21st-century English businesspeople
20th-century English businesswomen
21st-century English businesswomen
Alumni of the University of Bristol
British public relations people
English people of Scottish descent
Labour Party (UK) politicians
People from Beaconsfield
Spouses of prime ministers of the United Kingdom
People educated at Camden School for Girls
British founders
Women founders
Founders of charities
Gordon Brown