[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Estrogen receptor alpha

e abnormalities of female ERKO mice: the epithelial ducts of female ERKO mice fail to grow beyond their pre-pubertal length, and lactational structures do not develop. As a result, the functions of the mammary gland—including both lactation and release of prolactin—are greatly impaired in ERKO mice.

Bone 
Though its expression in bone is moderate, ERα is known to be responsible for maintenance of bone integrity. It is hypothesized that estrogen stimulation of ERα may trigger the release of growth factors, such as epidermal growth factor or insulin-like growth factor-1, which in turn regulate bone development and maintenance. Accordingly, male and female ERKO mice exhibit decreased bone length and size.

Brain 
Estrogen signaling through ERα appears to be responsible for various aspects of central nervous development, such as synaptogenesis and synaptic remodeling. In the brain, ERα is found in hypothalamus, and preoptic area, and arcuate nucleus, all three of which have been linked to reproductive behavior, and the masculinization of the mouse brain appears to take place through ERα function. Furthermore, studies in models of psychopathology and neurodegenerative disease states suggest that estrogen receptors mediate the neuroprotective role of estrogen in the brain. Finally, ERα appears to mediate positive feedback effects of estrogen on the brain's secretion of GnRH and LH, by way increasing expression of kisspeptin in neurons of the arcuate nucleus and anteroventral periventricular nucleus. Although classical studies have suggested that negative feedback effects of estrogen also operate through ERα, female mice lacking ERα in kisspeptin-expressing neurons continue to demonstrate a degree of negative feedback response.

Clinical significance
Estrogen insensitivity syndrome is a very rare condition characterized by a defective ERα that is insensitive to estrogens. The clinical presentation of a female was observed to include absence of breast development and other female secondary sexual characteristics at puberty, hypoplastic uterus, primary amenorrhea, enlarged multicystic ovaries and associated lower abdominal pain, mild hyperandrogenism (manifested as cystic acne), and delayed bone maturation as well as an increased rate of bone turnover. The clinical presentation in a male was reported to include lack of epiphyseal closure, tall stature, osteoporosis, and poor sperm viability. Both individuals were completely insensitive to exogenous estrogen treatment, even with high doses.

Genetic polymorphisms in the gene encoding the ERα have been associated with breast cancer in women, gynecomastia in men and dysmenorrhea.

In patients with breast cancer, mutations in the gene encoding ERα (ESR1) have been associated with resistance to endocrine therapy, especially aromatase inhibitors.

Coactivators
Coactivators of ER-α include:
 SRC-1
 AIB1 – amplified in breast 1
 BCAS3 – Breast carcinoma amplified sequence 3
 PELP-1 – Proline-, glutamic acid-, leucine-rich protein 1

Interactions 

Estrogen receptor alpha has been shown to interact with:

 AKAP13
 AHR
 BRCA1
 CAV1
 CCNC
 CDC25B
 CEBPB
 COBRA1
 COUP-TFI
 CREBBP
 CRSP3
 Cyclin D1
 DDX17
 DDX5
 DNTTIP2
 EP300
 ESR2
 FOXO1
 GREB1
 GTF2H1
 HSPA1A
 HSPA8
 HSP90AA1
 ISL1
 JARID1A
 MVP
 MED1
 MED12
 MED14
 MED16
 MED24
 MED6
 MGMT
 MNAT1
 MTA1
 NCOA6
 NCOA1
 NCOA2
 NCOA3
 NRIP1
 PDLIM1
 POU4F1
 POU4F2
 PRDM2
 PRMT2
 RBM39
 RNF12
 SAFB
 SAFB2
 SHC1
 SHP
 SMARCA4
 SMARCE1
 SRA1
 Src
 TR2
 TR4
 TDG
 TRIM24 and
 XBP1.

References

Further reading

External links 
 
 

Intracellular receptors
Transcription factors