[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Operation Ramadan

divisions, the 3rd, 9th, and 10th, as a counter-attack force to attack any penetrations. They were successful in defeating the Iranian breakthroughs, but suffered heavy losses. The 9th Armoured Division in particular had been practically wiped out, lead to it being disbanded, and was never reformed.

For Iran the additional loss of armor meant a further weakening in power projection and came to further reinforce its inability to conduct sweeping offensives at depth. Staunch Iraqi defense had managed to wipe out the already understrength Iranian armored divisions involved in the operation, and they had succeeded in doing so right at the border. For Iran this setback was compounded by the fact that losses in armor could not be replaced at the same rate and to the same degree as that of Iraq's. These cumulative losses would have a catalytic effect on Iranian warfighting capacity. As time went on Iran gradually weakened while Iraq strengthened.

Aftermath 
The operation was the first of many disastrous Iranian offensives which cost thousands of lives on both sides. The Iranians in particular had suffered appalling casualties in exchange for very limited territorial gains. According to scholar Rob Johnson, "Operation Ramadan was, by any standard, a criminal failure of leadership and strategy." This one in general boosted the casualty limit up to 80,000 killed, 200,000 wounded, and 45,000 made prisoner of war. In retrospect, the Iranians lacked effective command and control, air support, and logistics to sustain an offensive in the first place. Saddam Hussein offered several ceasefire attempts in the following years, none of which were accepted by Khomeini.

References

Bibliography 
 The Persian Puzzle by Kenneth Pollack, Random House, 2004
 In The Rose Garden Of The Martyrs: A Memoir Of Iran, by Christopher de Bellaigue, HarperCollins, 2005
 Essential Histories: Iran-Iraq War 1980–1988, by Efraim Karsh, Osprey Publishing
 A Quest For Vengeance, by William E. Smith, TIME Magazine, July 26, 1982
 The Longest War, by Dilip Hiro, Routlage Chapman & Hall, 1991.
 Iran at War: 1500–1988 by Kaveh Farrokh, General Military, 2011

External links 
 The Official Site of Holy Defiance
 Iran-Iraq War on Iran Chamber Society (www.iranchamber.com)

Ramadan
Basra Governorate
Iran–Iraq War
Battles involving Iran
Battles involving Iraq
1982 in Iraq
July 1982 events in Asia