[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Muswellbrook railway station

Muswellbrook railway station  is a heritage-listed railway station located on the Main Northern line in Muswellbrook, in the Muswellbrook Shire local government area of New South Wales, Australia. The station serves the town of Muswellbrook and was designed by John Whitton, the Chief Engineer of NSW Railways. It is also known as Muswellbrook Railway Station and yard group and Musclebrook Railway Station. The property was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.

History
The single railway line from Singleton to, and station of "Musclebrook" was completed and opened on 19 May 1869, by the Earl of Belmore, Governor of NSW. Construction for the Muswellbrook section was awarded to George Blunt on 2 September 1864. The station was renamed on 1 September 1890.

The line (formerly known as the Great Northern Railway) runs through the Central Coast, Hunter and New England regions. It was the original main line between Sydney and Brisbane, however this required a change of gauge at Wallangarra. The line is now closed north of Armidale, and the main Brisbane-Sydney route is now the North Coast line.

The original 1869 John Whitton brick station building remains. The 1869 station building is one of several notable early stations attributed to Whitton during his long career with NSW Railways. It borrows heavily from his design experience in England and the influence of Georgian and Victorian architectural styles. Internally it comprised a Station Master's office, ticket office, waiting room, ladies room and lavatories.

Major changes and alterations included installation of a turntable in 1869 and its replacement by a larger one in 1890, lengthening of the platform and provision of an ash pit in 1891.

It was not until 1890 that the Railways Department changed the station name to Muswellbrook. A gatehouse was built at the level crossing in 1892. In 1898 and 1911 the platform was extended and in 1909 a station master's residence was approved for 545 pounds.

Muswellbrook railway precinct was expanded in the early 20th century with addition of the much larger two storey brick railway refreshment rooms immediately adjacent to the station building.

The refreshment rooms were commissioned in 1922, opened the same year. At the time, the Singleton Argus reported:

In 1927 the Refreshment Rooms were extended, altered to include five bedrooms for the public. This building replaced the rest houses, which had been transferred from Murrurundi and Singleton and re-erected at Muswellbrook in 1918.

The subway underpass was constructed in 1928 as a replacement for the level crossing at the Sydney end of the station. An overbridge was built on Bridge Street, replacing the level crossing. Meanwhile, a locomotive depot had been built in 1943.

In 1977 a coal mine at Ulan was opened and the railway was extended from Sandy Hollow to Ulan in 1982 to transport coal to Newcastle, via Muswellbrook.

For a number of years in the 1980s, the passenger services were replaced by road coaches while the line was upgraded. Rail services were restored on 14 March 1988.

In 2007 approval was given for 2-staged refurbishment of the railway refreshment room as a museum; provision of stair & entry ramp and install lift, then for construction of a stand-alone visitor information centre, storeroom, toilets, deck & landscaping.

In 2011 approval was given to demolish the disused signal box.

Muswellbrook formerly had an extensive freight yard including a locomotive roundhouse. The Merriwa section of the Ulan line branches off the Main Northern line at the northern end of the yard.

In early 2007, the Australian Rail Track Corporation commenced work to rationalise the tracks within the yard and add a passing loop long enough to accommodate  long trains. Upon completion, freight trains are to pass through the yard area at , improving travel times.

In March 2009, duplication of the Main Northern line reached Muswellbrook station, the completion of a project to upgrade the line to double track between Antiene and Muswellbrook to improve coal haulage capacity.

Platforms and services
The station has one platform and a disused dock platform at the southern end. Muswelbrook is serviced by NSW TrainLink Hunter Line services travelling between Newcastle and Scone.

It is also served by NSW TrainLink Xplorer services from Sydney to Armidale and Moree.