[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dario Kordić

the valley in April 1993), as well as in Zenica.

War crimes
Kordić, like many of the Herzeg-Bosnia leadership and military commanders, was accused of war crimes committed on the Bosniak population. On 6 October 1997, he voluntarily surrendered to the tribunal and on 8 October, pleaded not guilty. 

He was accused by the Hague for his role in the Lašva Valley massacre, including Ahmići, where HVO forces committed crimes against the local Bosniak population under his command. There were also reports that HVO soldiers, under his command, committed atrocities in and around Zenica. On 26 February 2001, Kordić was sentenced to 25 years in prison.

Based on his individual criminal responsibility (Art. 7 § 1 ICTY Statute) he was indicted on the following counts:
Serious violations of the Geneva Conventions (Art. 2 ICTY Statute: willful murder; inhumane treatment, illegal detention of civilians);
Violations of the laws and customs of war (Art. 3 ICTY Statute: unlawful attack on civilians, the unlawful attack against civilian targets; destruction without justifiable military cause; deliberate destruction or damage to buildings dedicated to religion or education);
Crimes against humanity (Art. 5 ICTY Statute: persecutions for political or religious reasons; murder; inhumane acts; imprisonment).

In June 2006, he was transferred to a prison in Austria to serve the remainder of his sentence there. In May 2010, his application for early release after having served half of his sentence was denied on grounds of the seriousness of the crimes committed and three disciplinary breaches while in prison. However, on 21 May 2014, Kordić was granted early release, effective 6 June 2014. Čerkez had been sentenced to six years imprisonment, and, having served more than that amount of time in detention, was released for time served.

See also
Lašva Valley ethnic cleansing
Joint criminal enterprise

References

External links
Lyal S. Sunga, The Kordić and Čerkez Trial Chamber Judgment: A Comment on the Main Legal Issues 7 Series of Annotated Leading Cases of International Criminal Tribunals (2004) 490-511.

1960 births
Living people
Politicians from Sarajevo
Military personnel from Sarajevo
Croat politicians from Bosnia and Herzegovina
Croatian Democratic Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina politicians
Politicians of the Croatian Republic of Herceg-Bosna
Croatian Defence Council
Croatian nationalists
People convicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
Bosnia and Herzegovina people imprisoned abroad
Prisoners and detainees of Austria
Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina convicted of war crimes
Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina convicted of crimes against humanity