[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mantispidae

Mantispidae, known commonly as mantidflies, mantispids, mantid lacewings, mantisflies or mantis-flies, is a family of small to moderate-sized insects in the order Neuroptera. There are many genera with around 400 species worldwide, especially in the tropics and subtropics. Only five species of Mantispa occur in Europe. As their names suggest, members of the group possess raptorial forelimbs similar to those of the praying mantis, a case of convergent evolution.

Description and ecology

About  long and with a wingspan of , some mantidflies such as Climaciella brunnea, Euclimacia nodosa are wasp mimics, but most are brownish with green, yellow and sometimes red hues. The vernacular and scientific names are derived from their mantis-like appearance, as their spiny "raptorial" front legs are modified to catch small insect prey and are very similar to the front legs of mantids (the only difference is that the pincers lack footpads and are not used for walking at all). The adults are predatory insects that are often nocturnal, and are sometimes attracted by porch lights or blacklights. They are usually green, brown, yellow, and sometimes pink, and have four membranous wings which may sometimes be patterned (especially in wasp mimicking species) but are usually clear. Adult mantidflies are predators of suitably sized insects, which they catch as mantids do. However, the underlying mechanisms for the prey capture behavior are different in mantidflies and mantids.<ref>Kral, K (2013). Vision in the mantispid: a sit-and-wait and stalking predatory insect. Physiological Entomology 38: 1-12.</ref> Mantidflies are active hunters, but as with other Neuroptera, they are cumbersome fliers.

Symphrasinae larvae are sedentary parasitoids on bee, wasp or scarab beetle larvae. Larvae of the Calomantispinae are predators of small arthropods, and in at least one species they are mobile. Mantispinae have the most specialized larval development among all mantidflies studied to date (the life history of the Drepanicinae remains unknown): their campodeiform larvae seek out female spiders or their egg sacs which they then enter; the scarabaeiform larvae then feed on the spider eggs, draining egg contents through a piercing/sucking tube formed by modified mandibles and maxillae, pupating in the egg sac.

First-instar mantispids use two strategies to locate spider eggs: larvae may burrow directly through the silk of egg sacs they find, or they may board and be carried by female spiders prior to sac production (phoresy), entering the sac as it is being constructed. Mantispids that board spiders usually adopt positions on or near the pedicel; some species may enter the spider's book lungs. Larvae maintain themselves aboard spiders by feeding on spider hemolymph. Transfers of larvae from spider to spider are possible during spider mating or cannibalism. All of the major groups of hunting spiders are attacked by spider-boarding mantispids; the egg sacs of web-building species are also entered by egg-sac penetrators.

Systematics
Among the Neuroptera (which includes lacewings and owlflies), mantidflies are apparently most closely related to the Dilaridae (pleasing lacewings) and the thorny (Rhachiberothidae) and beaded lacewings (Berothidae). These and the prehistoric Mesithonidae - probably a paraphyletic assemblage rather than a natural group - form the superfamily Mantispoidea.

Many mantidflies are placed in one of the four subfamilies, of which the Symphrasinae are probably the most distinct and the Mantispinae are the most advanced. But a considerable number of taxa cannot be easily accommodated in this layout, and are therefore better treated as incertae sedis at present.

Some authors have suggested that the extinct two winged Dipteromantispidae known from Cretaceous fossils should be treated as a subfamily of Mantispidae.

Extant taxa based on Global Biodiversity Information Facility and extinct taxa based on Jepson, 2015 and subsequent literature.

Calomantispinae
 Calomantispa Banks, 1913
 Nolima Navás, 1914

Drepanicinae
 †Acanthomantispa Lu et al. 2020 Burmese amber, Myanmar, Late Cretaceous (Cenomanian)
†Aragomantispa Pérez-de la Fuente and Peñalver 2019 Spanish amber, Early Cretaceous (Albian)
†Dicranomantispa Lu et al. 2020 Burmese amber, Myanmar, CenomanianDitaxis McLachlan, 1867
 Drepanicus Blanchard, 1851
 Gerstaeckerella Enderlein, 1910
†Liassochrysa Ansorge and Schlüter 1990 Green Series, Germany, Early Jurassic (Toarcian)
†Promantispa Panfilov 1980 Karabastau Formation, Kazakshtan, Middle/Late Jurassic
†Psilomantispa Lu et al. 2020 Burmese amber, Myanmar, Cenomanian
†Sinuijumantispa So & Won, 2022 Sinuiju Formation, North Korea, Early Cretaceous (Aptian)
 Theristria Gerstaecker, 1884

Mantispinae