[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 23]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ve," said Harry,
"for there is a shop in the village hard by where they sell all manner
of clothes for the poor people; and, as you have money, you may easily
buy some."

Harry and Tommy then agreed to go early the next morning to buy some
clothes for the poor children. They accordingly set out before
breakfast, and had proceeded nearly half-way, when they heard the noise
of a pack of hounds that seemed to be running full cry at some distance.
Tommy then asked Harry if he knew what they were about. "Yes," said
Harry "I know well enough what they are about; it is Squire Chase and
his dogs worrying a poor hare. But I wonder they are not ashamed to
meddle with such a poor inoffensive creature, that cannot defend itself.
If they have a mind to hunt, why don't they hunt lions and tigers, and
such fierce mischievous creatures, as I have read they do in other
countries?" "Oh! dear," said Tommy, "how is that? it must surely be very
dangerous." "Why, you know," said Harry, "the men are accustomed in some
places to go almost naked; and that makes them so prodigiously nimble,
that they can run like a deer; and, when a lion or tiger comes into
their neighbourhood, and devours their sheep or oxen, they go out, six
and seven together, armed with javelins; and they run over all the
woods, and examine every place, till they have found him; and they make
a noise to provoke him to attack them; then he begins roaring and
foaming, beating his sides with his tail, till, in a violent fury, he
springs at the man that is nearest to him." "Oh! dear," said Tommy, "he
must certainly be torn to pieces." "No such thing," answered Harry; "he
jumps like a greyhound out of the way, while the next man throws his
javelin at the lion, and perhaps wounds him in the side; this enrages
him still more; he springs again like lightning upon the man that
wounded him, but this man avoids him like the other, and at last the
poor beast drops down dead with the number of wounds he has received."
"Oh," said Tommy, "it must be a very strange sight; I should like to see
it out of a window, where I was safe." "So should not I," answered
Harry; "for it must be a great pity to see such a noble animal tortured
and killed; but they are obliged to do it in their own defence. But
these poor hares do nobody any harm, excepting the farmers, by eating a
little of their corn sometimes."

As they were talking in this manner, Harry, casting his eyes on one
side, said, "As I am alive, there is the poor hare skulking along! I
hope they will not be able to find her; and, if they ask me, I will
never tell them which way she is gone."

Presently up came the dogs, who had now lost all scent of their game,
and a gentleman, mounted upon a fine horse, who asked Harry if he had
seen the hare. Harry made no answer; but, upon the gentleman's repeating
the question in a louder tone of voice, he answered that he had. "And
which way is she gone?" said the gentleman. "Sir, I don't choose to tell
you," answered Harry, after some hesitation. "Not choose!" said the
gentleman, leaping off his horse, "but I'll make you choose in an
instant;" and, coming up to Harry who never moved from the place where
he had been standing, began to lash him in a most unmerciful manner with
his whip, continually repeating, "Now, you little rascal, do you choose
to tell me now?" To which Harry made no other answer than this: "If I
would not tell you before, I won't now, though you should kill me."

But this fortitude of Harry, and the tears of Tommy, who cried in the
bitterest manner to see the distress of his friend, made no impression
on this barbarian, who continued his brutality till another gentleman
rode up full speed, and said, "For any sake, Squire, what are you about?
You will kill the child, if you do not take care." "And the little dog
deserves it," said the other; "he has seen the hare, and will not tell
me which way she is gone." "Take care," replied the gentleman, in a low
voice, "you don't involve yourself in a disagreeable affair; I know the
other to be the son of a gentleman of great fortune in the
neighbourhood;" and then turning to Harry, he said, "Why, my dear, would
you not tell the gentleman which way the hare had gone, if you saw her?"
"Because," answered Harry, as soon as he had recovered breath enough to
speak, "I don't choose to betray the unfortunate." "This boy," said the
gentleman, "is a prodigy; and it is a happy thing for you, Squire, that
his age is not equal to his spirit. But you are always passionate----"
At this moment the hounds recovered the scent, and bursting into a full
cry, the Squire mounted his horse and galloped away, attended by all his
companions.

When they were gone, Tommy came up to Harry in the most affectionate
manner, and asked him how he did. "A little sore," said Harry; "but that
does not signify." _Tommy._--I wish I had had a pistol or a sword!
_Harry._--Why, what would you h