[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Horus Heresy (card game)

rs are the key portions of the planet over which the battles take place. Sector cards have information about the number of troops required to capture the sectors, as well as any special abilities or effects of the area. These cards are never part of the play deck and are only used during game setup.

All cards other than sector cards are either affiliated with one of the two factions, or are unaligned. "Loyalist" cards feature the  (the Emperor's Eagle), while "Traitor" cards feature the  (the Traitor leader's sigil). "Unaligned" cards, representing units or assets usable by either side, feature a set of scales. Loyalist and Traitor cards may not be mixed together in the same play deck, since a deck represents a given side in the conflict.

Card rarity
As with many of the games produced by Sabertooth Games, each playable card has rarity information printed on to help determine how rare it is. The rarity is denoted by the number of small dots appearing at the bottom of the card, according to the following legend:

When the game was first introduced, the starter pack (Base Set) included two play decks, one for the Loyalist and one for the Traitor side. Each contained 3 sector cards, 42 fixed cards, and 18 random cards (including three rares), all of which could theoretically be used. Additional enhancements to the starter were available, 9-card booster packs containing one rare card and eight common-or-uncommon cards. Boosters from later expansion sets contain the same 1-rare/8-common-or-uncommon distribution.

Compatibility
The cards are compatible with the later Dark Millennium collectible card game also published by Sabertooth Games. Loyalist cards from Horus Heresy may be mixed with "Imperial" cards from Dark Millennium, while Traitor cards may be mixed with "Chaos" cards. Unaligned Horus Heresy cards can be used with either of the two, but not with new Dark Millennium types such as the "Ork" and "Eldar" decks. Properly mixed decks are legal Dark Millennium Imperial or Chaos decks, but they are not legal in Horus Heresy.

Cards from the older Warhammer 40,000 Collectible Card Game are semi-compatible with Horus Heresy, requiring rule changes in order to work with the new game system.

Components

Notes

References

External links
 
 "Horus Heresy Collectable Card Game" Unofficial webpage lists cards from several packs, with same-site links to reproductions and to a deck builder

Card games introduced in 2003
Collectible card games
Warhammer 40,000 card games