[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# German Coast

st was renowned as the best cultivated part of Louisiana.

Culture
Most of the German Coast settlers came from the Rhineland region of Germany, the German-speaking cantons of Switzerland, and other areas.  Many came from the German-speaking region of Alsace–Lorraine in France, and some from Belgium.

From the time of their arrival, the German immigrants began speaking French and intermarried with the early French settlers. Over the subsequent decades they intermarried with the descendants of the latter as well as the Acadians, (Acadians are those who became known as "Cajuns.")

A number of common Cajun surnames have German origins: for example, Schexnayder (various spellings), LaBranche (a calque of Zweig), Folse, Zeringue (Zehring), Hymel (Himmel), and Trosclair (a phonetic macaronic of Troxler).

The Germans are also credited with introducing the accordion into Cajun music.

History

18th century

In the Louisiana Rebellion of 1768, German colonists joined with Acadians from the Cabannocé Post area to march on New Orleans and overthrow the new Spanish colonial governor Antonio de Ulloa.

Between 1769 and 1777, Governor Luis de Unzaga Amezaga 'le Conciliateur' promoted the colonization of the extensive province of Louisiana and distributed land and agricultural tools to the European families who came to live there. Unzaga created the world's first bilingual public educational system in New Orleans and also allowed various peoples to continue speaking in various languages such as English on the eastern bank of the Mississippi or German on the German coast.

Starting in the late 1770s, the German and Acadian settlers united again, under Spanish colonial governor Bernardo de Gálvez, to fight the British during the American Revolutionary War.

During the Anglo-Spanish War 1779-1783 Bernardo de Gálvez will establish 4 militia regiments "Milicias provinciales disciplinadas de los alemanes" with German and Acadian population.

They will take part in the battles of:

Capture of Fort Bute (1779) Bernardo de Galvez recruited 760 men including 160 indians in this area.

Battle of Baton Rouge (1779)

Battle of Mobile (1781)

Siege of Pensacola (1781)

19th century
In 1811, the German Coast was the site of the largest slave revolt in US history, the 1811 German Coast uprising. This was after the US had acquired the Louisiana Territory, but was more than a year before the Territory of Orleans was admitted as the state of Louisiana.

The rebellion's leaders were slaves Quamana and Harry, and Charles Deslondes, a free man of color. They gathered an estimated 500 slaves from plantations along the River Road and marched toward New Orleans. The insurgents killed two white men without meeting much resistance, but they were not well armed.

The local militia was called out and killed nearly half of the total ninety-five slaves who died as a result of the rebellion. The remainder were executed after tribunals were held in the parishes, including Orleans Parish.

20th century
During World War I, in a reaction against Germany as the enemy, the Louisiana state legislature passed Act 114: it prohibited all expressions of German culture and heritage in the state, especially the printed or spoken use of the German language. The use of the German language had declined among descendants of settlers of the German coast, but descendants of more recent German immigrants who arrived after the Revolutions of 1848 and later were affected.

21st century
In 2014, Whitney Plantation opened for tours in what was the German Coast. It is a slavery museum that is open to the public.

See also

 German American
 German Coast, Orleans Territory

References

External links
 The German-Acadian Coast Historical and Genealogical Society
 History of the Cajuns – The German Coast of Louisiana

Acadiana
Cajun
Acadian history
Belgian-American history
German-American culture in Louisiana
Pre-statehood history of Louisiana
Swiss-American history
Geography of St. Charles Parish, Louisiana
Geography of St. James Parish, Louisiana
Geography of St. John the Baptist Parish, Louisiana
Regions of Louisiana