[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Saša Ćurčić

One of the bigger oddities of his Villa period was his purchase of a double-decker bus, which he used to throw parties.

In July 2007, The Times came out with its list of 50 worst Premier League transfers of all time (period covering 1992–2007): Ćurčić's move from Bolton to Villa made the 16th spot.

Crystal Palace
Ćurčić's arrival at Crystal Palace came toward the end of the 1997–98 Premiership season. Palace were struggling near the bottom of the table, without a win at Selhurst Park all season prior to his arrival. Ćurčić made an immediate impact, notably with a fine performance against Derby County in which Palace finally recorded a home win. His charisma and quality made him a favourite with the fans, but his application to Palace's fight against relegation at times was questionable. The club were relegated to the Football League amidst a doomed takeover by Mark Goldberg that eventually led to administration, but Ćurčić remained at the club.

During spring 1999, he famously paraded around the pitch with a placard stating, "Yugoslavia – STOP NATO BOMBING" to protest the ongoing NATO bombing of FR Yugoslavia. By that time he appeared to have lost interest in football, being reduced to a handful of substitute appearances for Palace, before leaving as part of cost-cutting measures induced by Goldberg's ill-fated tenure as chairman coming to an insalubrious end.

Later career
During the summer of 1999, he joined MLS side MetroStars. Ćurčić has been known to sport a shaved head and a fu manchu beard sans mustache. Upon his arrival to Major League Soccer in summer 1999, with the season already in progress, he declared his intention to become the "Dennis Rodman of MLS". Ćurčić's stint in the league, however, lasted only until the end of the season (nine matches in total). The team had a disastrous season, at one point losing seven matches in a row, and 13 out of 14. Coached by compatriot Bora Milutinović, 27-year-old Ćurčić had some decent outings creating from midfield and even scoring two goals, but nothing could save the season that turned out to be the worst recorded by any club in MLS history.

By January 2000, it was clear that Ćurčić, who had already returned to Europe looking for a club, would not be back for the second MLS season. The MetroStars team officially cited a desire to get a goalscorer and not keep a midfield playmaker like Ćurčić, while unofficially reasons for his premature departure ranged from lack of performance to unspecified personal problems.

On 16 March 2000, Ćurčić joined Motherwell. He only made five appearances for the club. In an interview on Sky Sports in April 2001, Ćurčić who had just turned 29 years of age stated that he had retired from football.

International career

Ćurčić's international football career that spanned seven years during the 1990s, started and ended with away friendlies versus Brazil. Ivica Osim gave the 19-year-old his debut in late October 1991 in Varginha vs Brazil when the country was still called SFR Yugoslavia. He came on as the 46th minute substitute for Siniša Mihajlović.

Coaching career
, Ćurčić ran a football academy in West London prior to a short period as a coach with the Palace for Life Foundation.

In November 2021 Ćurčić became manager of Serbian League Belgrade club Borac Lazarevac but resigned in April 2022.

Personal life
On 5 May 2007, Ćurčić entered the Serbian Celebrity Big Brother house and won the contest on 3 June 2007 winning €50,000. The reality show win led to resurgence of popularity for him in Serbia, and he appeared in a series of TV commercials for Mobile Telephony of Serbia as well as on various talk and singing shows such as Oralno doba, Zvezde Granda, etc. On 2 August 2008, more than seven years after he stopped playing, Ćurčić played the first of his two testimonial matches. This, the first part of his official farewell to football, pitted Partizan 1994 team consisting of former FK Partizan players from the late 1980s and early 1990s such as Zoran Mirković, Predrag Spasić, Dragan Ćirić, Dejan Čurović, etc. against FK Pionir from Besni Fok, one of the teams where Ćurčić played youth football and also a team where he coached the youth squad. Ćurčić played one half for each of the teams. Partizan 1994 won 2–0. The match was played at a ground in Besni Fok.

On 20 September 2009, Ćurčić started appearing on another reality contest – this time it was Farma, locally franchised version of the Swedish series The Farm. He left the programme on his own initiative within weeks.

It was rumoured that Ćurčić had been approached by the UK's Channel 4 to participate in the British Celebrity Big Brother series in 2010, after having appeared and won the Serbian equivalent two years earlier, however nothing came of that.

Career statistics

References

External links