[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Basque rural sports

king race that was particularly popular in Navarre in the 19th and 20th century with the walkers wearing the abarketa, a traditional Basque leather shoe, and a hazel stick.

The traditional forms of running  have been largely supplanted by modern forms of running and racing.

Kukaina (yard climbing)

This variant of the Neapolitan greasy pole game is usually played on a yard that is suspended horizontally over water. A piece of cloth is attached to the far end of the yard and competitors have to try to reach it and retrieve it.
A variant uses a greased vertical pole.
It can also be spelled , a word which derives from the Spanish word  (Cockaigne) and in French .

Laiariak (laia competitions)

This is a competition involving the laia, a farming implement that resembles a two-pronged heavy pitchfork with an off-centre handle, either with a long or short handle. Traditionally four or five members of either gender of a baserri family are picked to compete as a team, the task being to turn over a plot of land as quickly as possible.

A variation of this is , a  race where the competitors stand on a pair of  and race, not dissimilar to a race on stilts.

The  was a very widespread instrument used to loosen soil. With the advent of modern farming machinery, its use is now restricted to area machines cannot reach, for example on high slopes, and kitchen gardens.

In Spanish this is called  or , in French as .

Makil tira (stick pulling)
In this game, two players sit on the ground with their feet touching, separated by a plank. Both players also hold onto a makila, and the aim is to lift one's opponent to their feet.

In Spanish this is called , in French as .

Oilar jokoa (chicken game)
This term in Basque covers two sorts of chicken games: 
cockfighting, which was outlawed in 1926.
a game where a chicken is buried to the neck and blindfolded. Competitors, themselves blindfolded too, have to locate the chicken guided by the music of a txistulari or drummer. In the old days the goal was to remove the head from the chicken once it was located but when played today, it is sufficient to touch the head. The most famous  is held in Legazpi in June today but the game used to be more widespread.

Palanka jaurtiketa (metal bar throwing)
The throwing of a metal bar was once one of the most popular and widespread of Basque sports. Its popularity waned during the 19th century. Having died out in most areas, it survived the longest in parts of Gipuzkoa until its ultimate demise in the 20th century.

The  (thrower) throws a , a traditional mining tool weighing between  as far as possible. Various throwing techniques were employed, most involving the  twisting around before launching the . Some techniques by name are:
 "with half a turn"
 "from the chest"
 "from between the legs"

The origins of this sport are in the mining industry where the  was traditionally used to prepare the holes into which explosives were then placed from the 15th century onwards. As a pastime, the miners would see who could throw the heavy tool the furthest in their breaks.

Curiously, the Spanish athlete Miguel de la Quadra-Salcedo used a javelin throwing technique based on the Basque techniques of throwing the palanka at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. Initially breaking the world record in javelin throwing, his record was later annulled when the IAAF amended its rules to exclude techniques that at any point in time involve the athlete or the javelin face or point towards the audience.

In Spanish this is called  or  and in French .

(pitcher race)

This sport involves a pitcher variously called :eu:pegarra, bera, :es:pedarra and  in Basque. It is a traditional ceramic pitcher that resembles a fat teapot, with a diameter at the base of around , a lid on the top with about  diameter, and about  tall and a fairly large spout. It can either be glazed or unglazed, with one or three handles (if it was designed to be hung) that was traditionally used to carry water.

It is carried on a head cushion called  and the aim of a race is to get to the finish line without dropping the . It is difficult to ascertain how old the sport is but one of the earliest records of the  being used to carry water on the head dates back to a Dutch book from 1603 called Theatrum Orbis Terrarum by Abraham Ortelius which has an illustration of a Basque woman carrying a .

In Spanish this is called  and in French .

Esku Pilota (Basque pelota)

The Basque sport best known outside the Basque Country is Basque pelota. It is a Basque version of the family of ball games that covers squash, tennis, and real tennis, all of them thought to derive from the Jeu de paume and hence a relative of Valencian pilota.