[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1977 in the United Kingdom

1960s, accepts an offer from the Football Association to manage the England team on a temporary basis until December.
23 August – A new, smaller, £1 note is introduced.
26 August – First all-Luton-built Vauxhall Cavalier Mk1 family cars roll off the production line at Vauxhall Motors Luton factory.

September
 September – Ford launches the second generation of its flagship Granada saloon and estate models.
6 September – Car industry figures show that foreign cars are outselling British-built ones for the first time. Although Ford, British Leyland, Vauxhall and Chrysler are still the market leaders, foreign brands including Datsun, Fiat, Renault and Volkswagen are enjoying a growing market share.
16 September – Rock star Marc Bolan, pioneer of the glam rock movement at the start of the 1970s with T. Rex, is killed in a car crash in Barnes, London, two weeks before his thirtieth birthday. His girlfriend Gloria Jones, who was driving the car, is seriously injured.
19 September – Manchester United, the English FA Cup holders, are expelled from the European Cup Winners' Cup after their fans rioted in France during a first round first leg game with AS Saint-Etienne (which ended in a 1–1 draw) five days ago.
26 September
 Freddie Laker launches his new budget Skytrain airline, with the first single fare from Gatwick to New York City costing £59 compared to the normal price of £186.
 UEFA reinstates Manchester United to the European Cup Winners' Cup on appeal. However, they are ordered to play their return leg against AS Saint-Etienne at least 120 miles away from their Old Trafford stadium.
 The Queen is escorted from Buckingham Palace after reports of an armed man on site.

October
3 October – Undertakers go on strike in London, leaving more than 800 corpses unburied.
7 October – Rock band Queen's power ballad "We Are the Champions" is released.
10 October – Missing 20-year-old sex worker Jean Jordan is found dead in Chorlton, Manchester, nine days after she was last seen alive. Police believe that the Yorkshire Ripper may have killed her; the first crime outside Yorkshire which the killer has been suspected of.
14 October – Fourteen people are injured in a bomb explosion at a London pub.
15 October – World's End Murders: Christine Eadie and Helen Scott, both 17, disappear after leaving the World's End pub in Edinburgh, Scotland. Their bodies are found tied and strangled in the countryside the next day. In 2014, serial killer Angus Sinclair is convicted of the crime.
18 October – Elizabeth II, Queen of Canada, opens the third session of the 30th Canadian Parliament.
25 October – Michael Edwardes succeeds Richard Dobson as chief executive and chairman of British Leyland.
27 October
Former Liberal leader Jeremy Thorpe denies allegations of the attempted murder of and having a relationship with model Norman Scott.
Punk band Sex Pistols release Never Mind the Bollocks, Here's the Sex Pistols on the Virgin Records label. Despite refusal by major retailers to stock it, it debuts at #1 on the UK Album Charts the week after its release. In a promotional stunt, the group perform on a boat on the River Thames shortly afterwards, only for the police to wait for them and make several arrests, including that of Malcolm McLaren, the band's manager.
28 October
Police in Yorkshire appeal for help in finding the Yorkshire Ripper, who is believed to be responsible for a series of murders and attacks on women across the county during the last two years.
Rock band Queen release the album News of the World.

November
14 November – Firefighters go on their first ever national strike, in hope of getting a 30% wage increase.
15 November 
 The Queen becomes a grandmother for the first time when Princess Anne gives birth to a son.
 The first SavaCentre hypermarket, a venture between Sainsbury's and British Home Stores, opens at Washington, Tyne and Wear.
22 November – British Airways inaugurates regular London to New York City supersonic Concorde service.