[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 5th New York Infantry Regiment

The 5th New York Infantry Regiment, also known as Duryée's Zouaves, was a volunteer infantry regiment that served in the U.S. Army during the American Civil War.  Modeled, like other Union and Confederate infantry regiments, on the French Zouaves of Crimean War fame, its tactics and uniforms were different from those of the standard infantry.

Organization

The regiment was formed on April 12, 1861, by a group of military enthusiasts in Manhattan, under authority issued to Col. Abram Duryée, and trained at Fort Schuyler at Throgs Neck, New York Harbor. On Tuesday, April 23, 1861, its companies were mustered into service of the State, and on Thursday, April 25, the State Board confirmed the election of its field officers. The regiment was mustered into Federal service of the United States at Fort Schuyler for a term of two years by Capt. T. Seymour, USA two weeks later on May 9. The next day, Friday, the State Military Board formally accepted the 10th.

The majority of the soldiers were educated and above average height. The companies were recruited principally: 
 A and B — New York city and Brooklyn
 C — New York city, Astoria and Poughkeepsie
 D — Fifth Ward Volunteers of New York city
 E — New York city, Brooklyn and Williamsburg
 F — New York city, Brooklyn, Fordham and Yonkers
 G — New York city, Brooklyn and New Rochelle
 H — New York city, Brooklyn, Flushing, Greenpoint, Tarrytown and West Point
 I — New York city, Brooklyn, Jamaica, Long Neck and Williamsburg, and at Perth Amboy, Plainfield and Orange, N. J.
 K — New York and Jersey City.

On Monday, April 29, 1861, the regiment withdrew 800 Model 1842 Springfield Muskets .69 caliber, smoothbore muskets from state stocks. During training the regiment acquired the following field officers: Colonel Abram Duryée, Lieut. Colonel Gouverneur K. Warren, Major J. Mansfield Davies, Adjutant Joseph E. Hamblin, Quartermaster John H. Wells, Surgeon Rufus H. Gilbert, Assistant Surgeon B. Ellis Martin, and Chaplain Rev. Gordon Winslow.

The line officers were elected as well and resulted in the following: 
 Company A — Capt. Harmon Daniel Hull, 1st Lt. William T Partridge, and 2nd Lt. Charles W. Torrey
 Company B — Capt. Robert S. DuMont, 1st Lt. Gouverneur Carr, and 2nd Lt. Theodore S. DuMont
 Company C — Capt. Henry G. Davies, 1st Lt. J. Francis Evans, and 2nd Lt. Charles H. Seaman
 Company D — Capt. James L. Waugh, 1st Lt. Wilbur F. Lewis, and 2nd Lt. John A. Cochrane
 Company E — Capt. Hiram Duryea, 1st Lt. George Duryea, and 2nd Lt. Henry H. Burnett
 Company F — Capt. Henry A. Swartwout, 1st Lt. Oliver Wetmore, Jr., and 2nd Lt. Carlile Boyd
 Company G — Capt. Abraham Denike, 1st Lt. Jacob Duryée, and 2nd Lt. Joseph H. Bradley
 Company H — Capt. Judson Kilpatrick, 1st Lt. Churchill J. Cambreleng, and 2nd Lt. James Miller
 Company I — Capt. Charles G. Bartlett, 1st Lt. Joseph S. York, and 2nd Lt. John H. Whitney
 Company K — Capt. Cleveland Winslow, 1st Lt. Prescoyy Tracey, and 2nd Lt. William H. Hoyt.

Service

Initial duty
On May 24, the regiment boarded a transport to reach the Virginia Peninsula. The regiment camped for a few days near Hampton Bridge, then moved to Camp Butler, Newport News, and was attached to Pierce's brigade. The troops of the 5th led the force at the battle of Big Bethel on Monday, June 10. Captain Judson Kilpatrick took Companies E and H in advance with Colonel Duryée following with the rest the command.  The 5th lost 5 killed, 16 wounded (including Kilpatrick) and 2 missing. Immediately after the battle, the regiment began making scouting expeditions.

Railroad Security
On Friday, July 26, the regiment moved to Baltimore, Maryland, to join Dix's Division which was tasked with protecting the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad in and out of Baltimore from Washington to Philadelphia. The 5th provided security within the city and built and garrisoned an earthen fort at the summit of Federal Hill. On Thursday, August 15, Maj. Davies resigned to take command of the 2nd New York Cavalry, and two days later, Capt. Hiram Duryea of Company was promoted as his replacement.

On August 31, Duryée was promoted to general rank, so Gouverneur Kemble Warren took over command of the regiment. Duryea moved up to Lt. Colonel, and on September 3, Hull of Company A replaced Duryea as Major.

At Federal Hill, the regiment guarded the railway and the city and continuously drilled. The 5th's duty in Baltimore was marked by occasional clashes with pro-secessionist locals, patrolling the rail lines and yards, and improving the fort on Federal Hill. With the exception of a short expedition to the Eastern Shore of Virginia, the regiment used this garrison time to continue honing its skill at its manual of arms and regimental field movements.