[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Staffordshire Yeomanry

at Stafford, formed from 887 Locating Battery, RA (formerly 61st (North Midland) Field Regiment, RA) and part of 125 Engineer Regiment, RE (originally 59th (Staffordshire) Infantry Division RE)
 C Squadron at Burton-on-Trent, formed from Staffordshire Yeomanry and HQ RA 48th (South Midland) Division

The Staffordshire Yeomanry became part of the Mercian Yeomanry in 1971 (renamed the Queen's Own Mercian Yeomanry in 1973) with one of the squadrons being designated B (Staffordshire Yeomanry) Squadron.

In July 1999 B (Staffordshire Yeomanry) Squadron amalgamated with A (Queen's Own Warwickshire and Worcestershire Yeomanry) Squadron, also part of the Queen's Own Mercian Yeomanry, to form A (Staffordshire, Warwickshire and Worcestershire Yeomanry) Squadron, The Royal Mercian and Lancastrian Yeomanry at Dudley.

In July 2014 B (Staffordshire, Warwickshire and Worcestershire Yeomanry) Squadron re-subordinated to The Royal Yeomanry.  However, in 2021 the squadron lost its Stafford lineage, becoming B (Warwickshire and Worcestershire Yeomanry) Squadron following an internal reorganisation of the Royal Yeomanry.

Heritage and ceremonial

Uniforms and insignia
Individual Staffordshire Yeomanry troops may have worn black (Lichfield) or red facings on their jackets, but by 1804 the consolidated regiment had standardised on a red jacket with yellow facings, white waistcoat, white leather breeches and military boots. The headdress was a Tarleton helmet with a bearskin crest and black turban with silver chains, carrying a white-over-red feather on the left side. The belts were of pipeclayed leather. The men were armed with a sword (of old pattern) and pistol. On its formation the regiment adopted the motto Pro aris et focis ('For hearth and home') and the Staffordshire knot as its badge. The Volunteer Associations also seem to have adopted this uniform, except the Stone & Eccleshall Trp, which had black facings, and the Wolverhampton Trp, which may have worn a blue jacket.

In March 1808 the regiment's uniform underwent a complete change, when it adopted a blue jacket with white lace Hussar frogging and white facings (the trumpeters wore 'reversed colours', with white jackets frogged in blue lace). Buff leather breeches were  worn. This uniform was replaced again in 1816 by a blue double-breasted (single-breasted from 1834) Light Dragoon Coatee with white facings and metal shoulder scales (Epaulettes for officers), and blue-green overalls with a double white stripe. The regiment was the last to wear the old pattern Tarleton helmet: this was finally replaced in 1837 by a bell-topped Shako with white horsehair plume. When the 'Queen's Own' title was granted in 1838 the white facings and trouser stripes were replaced with red, appropriate to a bluecoated 'Royal' regiment.

In 1850 the shako was replaced by a black metal Albert helmet with a black plume. From this period a French Kepi was worn as an undress cap, replaced by a pillbox cap in the 1880s. In 1853 black pouch belts and brown sword belts replaced the previous pipeclayed belts, and the new Light Dragoon tunic with white frogging was adopted in 1859, when the helmet plume reverted to white. The tunic was changed for the Hussar style in 1881, and the conversion to Hussar uniform was completed in 1893 when the Albert helmet was replaced by a black Busby with a red bag falling on the right side and an upright white plume.

During the Boer War the 6th (Staffordshire) Company, IY, wore the standard khaki uniform, initially with the foreign service helmet, on the left hand side of which was a cloth patch divided into vertical stripes red-blue-red, carrying the Staffordshire knot badge and the figure '6'. The Slouch hat proved more popular, with the Stafford knot badge on a red patch on the turned-up left side worn by both the 6th and 106th Companies. After the war the regiment adopted the khaki IY uniform in 1903, with red cuffs, collars and trefoil cuff ornament, worn with a slouch hat. After 1906 a simpler 'substitute full dress' and a blue undress uniform returned, with a peaked Service cap, while khaki service dress was worn in drill order.

The Stafford, Newcastle and Lichfield Trps were presented with standards by the Countess of Sutherland on 23 October 1795. These were yellow swallow-tailed guidons with in the centre the crowned Stafford knot surrounded by a wreath above the motto Pro aris et focis, and oval cartouches in each corner, those on the upper hoist and lower fly probably being red with the White Horse of Hanover. These and other standards were retired and replaced in 1835.

As a result of its service during the 1842 riots, the regiment was presented with 12 silver trumpets inscribed "Presented by a grateful County to the Queen's Own Royal Yeomanry for their services in 1842".