[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Richmond and Petersburg Railroad

all the way to Charleston, South Carolina.   In 1898, the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad merged with the Petersburg Railroad to form the Atlantic Coast Line of Virginia.  In 1900, all five railroads were merged to form the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad from Richmond all the way to Augusta, Georgia.

After merging with the Atlantic Coast Line, the Richmond and Petersburg line became the northernmost segment of the Atlantic Coast Line's main line (which would extend as far south as Tampa, Florida).  The Atlantic Coast Line and the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Potomac Railroad jointly built Broad Street Station in 1916 and consolidated their passenger operations there.  With passenger service relocated to Broad Street Station, passenger trains began using the Belt Line (which then became the main line) to access the station from the south.  To accommodate the additional traffic, the Belt Line was double tracked and realigned at the south end to join the original main line at what is now FA Junction.  The current double-tracked arch bridge over the James River was complete in 1919.  Though, some foundations of the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad's original bridge for the Belt Line remain beside the current bridge.

In 1967, the Atlantic Coast Line merged with its rival, the Seaboard Air Line Railroad.  The merged company was named the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad, and the Atlantic Coast Line's main line was then known as the A Line.  In 1980, the Seaboard Coast Line's parent company merged with the Chessie System (successor of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway), creating the CSX Corporation.  The CSX Corporation initially operated the Chessie and Seaboard Systems separately until 1986, when they were merged into CSX Transportation.

The A Line is still used today by Amtrak and CSX.  It is CSX's North End Subdivision.  Part of the original route of the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad north of FA Junction is still in place and it is now CSX's Clopton Lead.

Presidents
 W. H. McFarland
 Wirt Robinson (May 27, 1851 or before – ?)
 Holden Rhodes
 Charles Ellis (1860 or before – November 29, 1870)
 Thomas H. Wynne (November 29, 1870 – )
 Frederick R. Scott (1874 – 1898), President Pro Tempore in 1874

Cars
The Richmond and Petersburg had 10 locomotives, 7 passenger cars, 3 baggage cars, 71 freight cars and 6 other cars, including cabooses in 1893.  It had Janney couplers, semi-automatic couplers, on the locomotive and passenger cars and automatic links on the others; Westinghouse automatic brakes automatic brakes on the locomotives, Westinghouse  air brakes on the passenger cars and hand brakes on the other cars.

Employees
Before the end of the Civil War, enslaved Africans did much of the work on the Railroad.  In 1864 118 slaves worked on the railroad and only 78 paid employees.  Slaves drove the passenger carrying Omnibus and the wagons, worked in the maintenance shops as mechanics and shopmen, worked in the Depots and office, worked at the Clover Hill and other stations, worked as firemen and train hands on the train, worked as section men and repaired tracks, worked on the gravel train shoveling gravel and bringing materials and chopped wood to provide the fuel for the trains.  Paid employees managed the slave workers and included copper smiths, carpenters and painters, acted as inspectors worked as ticket agents and clerks and were the officers of the company. The railroad company owned one slave in 1858 and leased the other slaves.

After the war there were only paid employees. By 1893, the Richmond and Petersburg employed ten general officers and 32 men at the stations. Ten enginemen ran the engines on the locomotives, 13 Firemen shoveled coal, six conductors kept the trains on schedule and 19 other men worked on the trains.  Five machinists and five carpenters worked in the shop with six other shopmen.  Four section foreman, eight other trackmen and 44 flagmen, watchers and switchers worked on the rails. Telegraph operators ran telegraphs that went up and down the rails and to other lines.  Nearly one hundred other laborers were employed.

Working on the trains was dangerous, eight men working on the train were killed in 1893 and two were injured.  Two other employees, three passengers and two unrelated people off of the train were also injured.

Passengers and cargo
The trains carried several hundred thousand passengers a year. The freight cars shipped lumber, fruits and vegetables, tobacco, grain and flour, hay, iron, cement and brick, lime, coal, meat, poultry, game, fish, cotton, wool, leather, wine, liquor and beer, wagons and carriages, farm tools, other tools, iron rails and boat parts.

Stations
Main Line

Belt Line

References

Defunct Virginia railroads
Virginia in the American Civil War
Predecessors of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad
Railway companies established in 1836
Railway companies disestablished in 1898
5 ft gauge railways in the United States
1836 establishments in Virginia