[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chaim Yisroel Eiss

red.

The bearers of the Paraguayan passports would be placed in the internment camps in occupied France and Germany rather than sent to the extermination camps. Thus, hundreds of them managed to survive the war. In 1944, Poland forced Paraguay to temporarily recognize the validity of the passports.

The communications system that Eiss set up to have the documents smuggled was complex and not without danger. The unofficial postal service was conducted by non-Jewish residents of the occupied countries, people he referred to in his letters as pure Aryans , and the phraseology that was used was designed to pass muster with the censors while being understood by the intended recipients. An example of this can be seen in a letter that he wrote to Agudath Israel’s American branch at an early stage, before people were yet aware of the Nazis’ extermination efforts. It stated: "Our friend Rav Alexander Susha Friedman wrote me a letter of thanks on behalf of Mr. Mekayem Nefesh" and that "Mr. Chalelei Raav (Dying of Hunger) is a permanent guest at our friends' homes." 

Sometimes he was able to be more explicit, and he wrote to the London branch of Agudath Israel, "The situation of our French brethren and even more, of our Polish brethren, is getting worse each day. In Warsaw the Jews are dying at a rate of 6,000 per month, mostly from hunger." 

Hundreds, maybe thousands of people were prevented from dying by Eiss’s efforts, but these were not the only people he helped. Thousands of Jews trapped in occupied Europe were given hope by his activities. 

Eiss died in November 1943 survived by his wife and eight out of ten children.

Eiss Archive created in 2019 is named after him.

Political views
Eiss was critical of the Mizrachi movement.  He wrote that Mizrachi did not teach its children the Torah but instead had a new religion, that of labor . According to Eiss, the only reason that Mizrachi affiliated itself to the Zionists was in order to receive monetary gain .

Eiss was also critical of the secular educational system. He wrote that "Forty thousand of the children of our people are being educated in schools which are such that the children will not turn out to be apikorsim (heretics), because they will not know enough Torah to be able to rebel against it, but will turn out to be ignoramuses."

See also
 Ładoś Group
 Yad Vashem

References

 Chaim Yisroel Eiss’ Interrogation Report, 13 May 1943, Swiss Federal Archives E4320 (B) 1990/266, vol. 237

External links
 Chaim Yisroel Eiss, the Man at the Center of Orthodoxy’s WWII Rescue Activities
 The Holocaust Martyrs' and Heroes' Remembrance Authority (Yad Vashem) article on Chaim Yisrael Eiss 

1876 births
1943 deaths
Ładoś Group members
Jews from Galicia (Eastern Europe)
People from Bieszczady County
People who rescued Jews during the Holocaust
Recipients of the Virtus et Fraternitas Medal