[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Greece–Serbia relations

rakis met in Belgrade on 26 February 2009 discussing the sharing view of a stable Balkans based on mutual trust and cooperation and the huge possibilities to boost the military cooperation between the two countries. Greece still supports Serbia in the Kosovo question.

Greek position on Serbia in EU

In June 2008 Greece's ambassador to Serbia Christos Panagopoulos said Greece consistently backs Serbia's development and wants it to assume its place in the EU. He stated that political leadership of Greece wish is for Serbia to take its place in the European family and that Greece believes that is the best for Serbia and for regional stability. According to Panagopoulos, Greece is conducting a policy of support to Serbia's development and improving the lives of its citizens, as reflected in the large aid that Serbia received after 2000, as well as investments that exceed 2.5 billion EUR. He recalled that in 2001 and 2002 the serious situation in the country dictated that aid was predominantly of a humanitarian character, but that this was followed by development aid. Greece adopted an important aid program, dubbed the "Hellenic Plan for the Economic Reconstruction of the Balkans", which earmarked 230 million EUR for Serbia. The bulk of this sum, about 80 percent, was intended for infrastructure, including Corridor X, which was a priority both for Serbia and Greece. Of the overall costs of construction of Corridor 10, amounting to about 300 million EUR, 100 million will constitute a net donation from the Greek government. He underlined that one of Athens and its Belgrade-based embassy's goals was the promotion of economic relations, which had a very positive dynamism, since Greece topped the list of countries making direct and indirect investment in Serbia. He said that Greece is present in all strategic branches of the economy, meaning that Greek investors came to Serbia to stay and that Greek investment will create more than 27,000 jobs for Serbian citizens. Panagopoulos expressed his hope that this trend would shortly be expanded with Serbian investment in Greece.

On 19 October 2008, The Greek Foreign Minister, Dora Bakoyannis, said that Greeks and Serbs have a special relationship and that Serbia is coming closer to the European Union, making important steps on the way and that she believed Serbia had much to offer for the EU.

Greek Foreign Minister Dimitris Droutsas met with Serbian counterpart Vuk Jeremić on 22 May, they said that relations between the two countries are excellent, they further discussed Western Balkans in the European Union, Greece said the region would join the EU by 2014. Jeremić thanked Greece's position on Kosovo, the economic cooperation and overall excellent relations. Greece is Serbia's top important partner in Southeastern Europe. Greece helped with the visa liberalization, and Jeremić said: "This year, our citizens will be able to travel to the Greek sea much easier. They will spend their vacations in Greece, because there is no seacoast in the region where our citizens can feel better than in Greece...." Droutsas said Greece is ready to ratify Serbia's Stabilization and Association Agreement (SAA) immediately.

Economy

Greece is the third overall top investor from the EU to Serbia and was the top investor in Serbian economy in 2008. As of 2022,  Greek investment in Serbia is estimated at around 2.2 billion euros. In the period from 2000 to 2010, Greece was the second largest foreign investor in Serbia. In 2021, trade between these two countries amounted to 636 million euros. In recent years, Serbia and Greece has had an increased focus on strengthening cooperation in the field of energy.

Sister cities
Some of the sister cities between Serbia and Greece:

 Belgrade - Athens
 Niš - Cassandreia; Sparta; Glyfada; Maroussi; Alimos
 Novi Sad - Ilioupoli
 Smederevo - Volos
 Kruševac - Corfu
 Jagodina - Corinth
 Aleksinac - Lavrio; Patras; Eana; Lavris; Sampolitio; Veronas
 Čačak - Katerini; Filippoi
 Grocka - Agia Paraskevi
 Kragujevac - Drama
 Pančevo - Neapoli
 Šabac - Argostoli
 Paraćin - Eleftherio-Kordelio; Perdika

Church relations
The Greek Orthodox Church has had excellent relations with the Serbian Orthodox Church, including acquiring and giving humanitarian aid to Serbia during all of the wars. These relations have extended also to the Serbian state. Regarding the latter, the Church of Greece has supported "Serbian positions even on the matter of the secession of Montenegro from the Federation." as well as supporting Serbia on Kosovo, and likewise, the Serbian Church has supported the Greek position on Cyprus. Like the other Orthodox churches, the Church of Greece does not recognize the self-declared autocephaly of the Macedonian Orthodox Church and considers it part of Serbian Church.