[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 107 Squadron (Israel)

upported by the commander of the Air Force, it drew criticism and sparked an internal debate in the Israeli Air Force. On the seventh day of the war, 12 F-4 Phantom ("Kurnass") aircraft of the squadron participated in a complex attack on the Tanta airport, about a hundred kilometers north of Cairo. 

Throughout the Yom Kippur War, squadron 107 carried out 760 combat sorties, of which 42 were under Spector's command. Four of its planes were shot down, but it suffered no casualties. During the war, a plane belonging to the squadron was accidentally shot down by an Israeli IAI Nesher pilot, Yair Sela. The pilot Uri Bekel and the navigator Gilad Rosenblatt parachuted safely and were rescued to the base.

In Operation Litani, a phantom plane of the squadron flown by Danny Halutz was hit by an SA-7 missile, but despite the hit, managed to land safely at the Ramat David base.

In Operation Shlom HaGalil Yitzhak Gat commanded the squadron, the squadron participated in Operation Artsav-19, later in the war a member of the squadron was involved in the bombing of the forces of the 943rd Brigade - the most serious friendly fire incident  in the history of the IDF, in which 24 soldiers were killed and about 100 were wounded.

In 1991, Lt. Col. Yochanan Luker was appointed squadron commander and was thus the first Navigator/WSO in the Air Force to command an operational fighter squadron.

The Phantoms served in the squadron for 26 years and accumulated a total of 32 air-to-air kills.

In September 2005, the squadron's re-establishment team began operations as an F-16I ("Sufa") squadron. On July 5, 2006, the squadron was reopened as an F-16I ("Sufa") squadron at the Hatzerim Airbase. 107 is the third "storm" squadron established after squadron 253 ("the Negev squadron") and squadron 119 ("the bat squadron") which were stationed at the Ramon Airbase. Immediately after its establishment, the squadron under the command of Tal Kalman already participated in attack sorties during the Second Lebanon War.

At the end of December 2008, F-16I aircraft of the squadron attacked hundreds of terrorist targets in the Gaza Strip as part of Operation Cast Lead. In mid-November 2012, the squadron's F-16I aircraft attacked hundreds of terrorist targets in the Gaza Strip as part of Operation Pillar of Defense.

On July 7, 2013, a plane from the squadron crashed, this plane was the "flagship plane" of the squadron since its tail number was 107.

In May 2018, the squadron participated in Operation House of Cards in which they operated against the Quds Force in Syria.

History of the Squadron's insignias

External links
Global Security Profile
 
Israeli Air Force squadrons
Military units and formations established in 1953
Military units and formations disestablished in 1954
Military units and formations established in 1960