[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Seán McGuinness

ntenced for membership of a proscribed organisation in April 1931. This time McGuinness served his sentence in Ireland until March 1932, when he was released under a general amnesty to members of the IRA granted by the newly-elected Fianna Fáil government, who had just won the 1932 general election.

McGuinness continued to push for radical action following his release. At first, he petitioned the leadership of the IRA to allow him to conduct a campaign against the payment of "land annuities" by the Irish public. The "land annuities" were taxes levied on the Irish citizenry to pay off debts owed to the British government going back to the 1880s. Following the establishment of an independent Irish state, these taxes continued to be paid but by 1932, Republican political thought come to believe this debt should no longer exist. Following a debate on the matter in May 1932, the IRA leadership rejected McGuinness's plan, fearing it would interfere with Éamon de Valera's own plans to end the annuities as part of the Anglo-Irish trade war. However, McGuinness continued to advocate his anti-annuities ideas, and even published them in the Labour magazine Workers Voice, for which he was reprimanded.

Continuing to defy the IRA leadership, McGuinness and the Offaly IRA members under his influence became involved in trying to prevent the eviction of an elderly man, Patrick Craven, from an estate in Kinnitty in July 1932. Working as a caretaker, Craven had lived in the gatehouse of the estate for 19 years. However, the Irish Land Commission had taken control of the estate and had sold it to Captain Joseph Nugent, formerly an officer in the National Army during the Civil War, and now sought to evict Craven as part of the sale. Believing he had found an issue he could leverage to the IRA's advantage, McGuinness ordered his men to occupy and barricade the gatehouse to prevent an eviction. Simultaneously, McGuinness' brother Patrick (who was head of the local Fianna Fáil branch), wired local Fianna Fáil TDs Patrick Boland and Patrick Gorry to demand they support the action and join protests in its favour. Both Boland and Gorry did arrive on the scene immediately, but it did not take part. Instead, Boland convinced the local Fianna Fáil branches that Fianna Fáil was now locked in an economic war with the UK and could not commit itself to minor local matters. Gorry, on the other hand, met with McGuinness personally, and while opining that the land belonged legally to Nugent, he had managed to arrange with the Sherriff to hold off on the eviction for two days to give Craven a chance to move. Taking Gorry on his word, McGuinness stood down his men. According to Gorry, Gorry then left for Dublin, where he met with the Minister of Justice James Geoghegan, where he was assured there would be no eviction. However, by the next morning, the Craven family was evicted and sent to the poor house.

Moss Twomey, IRA Chief-of-Staff, was furious with McGuinness. Twomey stated that not only had McGuinness defied his orders, he had been hoodwinked and left the IRA looking incompetent to the public. McGuinness retorted that, rather than embarrassing the IRA,  the event had shown there was no difference between Fianna Fáil and Cumann na nGaedheal governments in practice. Attempting to salvage the situation, McGuinness tried to arrange a boycott of Nugent. He also requested from the IRA leadership that two speakers be sent to him, one of them being the socialist Peadar O'Donnell. McGuinness' requests for speakers was denied, as they believed locals should speak on the matter, however, O'Donnell arrived nonetheless upon learning of the situation. At an organised protest, McGuinness and O'Donnell tried to lay blame at the feet of the Fianna Fáil government. However, many other speakers at the protest were Fianna Fáil TDs and councillors, all of whom redirected criticisms elsewhere. The protests did not reinstate the Craven family onto the property, however, money was raised to build them a new home elsewhere.

The Kinnitty eviction left McGuinness disillusioned with attempting to drive the IRA against Fianna Fáil and thereafter his social agitation ceased.

References

1978 deaths
Early Sinn Féin TDs
Irish Republican Army (1919–1922) members
Irish Republican Army (1922–1969) members
Members of the 4th Dáil
People of the Irish Civil War (Anti-Treaty side)
Politicians from County Laois
Year of birth missing