[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tarek Ali Abdullah Ahmed Baada

all previous Guantanamo captives' habeas petitions were eligible to be re-instated.
The judges considering the captives' habeas petitions would be considering whether the evidence used to compile the allegations the men and boys were enemy combatants justified a classification of "enemy combatant".

On July 16, 2008, Julia Symon filed a "UNOPPOSED MOTION FOR EXPEDITED ENTRY OF PROTECTIVE ORDER" on behalf of Mohammed Abdullah Mohammed Ba Odah, Tariq Ali Abdullah Ba Odah, Nasser Ali Abdullah Odah in Civil Action No. 06-cv-1668 (HHK).
On June 26, 2015, Courthouse News reported that Baada's lawyer, Omar Farah, filed requests for his rapid transfer from Guantanamo because his weight had fallen dangerously low.
His weight was so low his lawyers found him barely recognizable.  Medical experts tell them his health is now so fragile that he could die from a simple infection.  They said that, even if he escaped accidental death, death would be an inevitable consequence of weight so low.

His lawyers quoted policy on repatriating those with a "chronic disease", and argued he met the criteria for repatriation under this policy.

Formerly secret Joint Task Force Guantanamo assessment

On April 25, 2011, whistleblower organization WikiLeaks published formerly secret assessments drafted by Joint Task Force Guantanamo analysts.
A Joint Task Force Guantanamo detainee assessment was drafted on January 13, 2008.
It was ten pages long, and was signed by camp commandant Rear Admiral Mark H. Buzby.  He recommended continued detention.

Guantanamo Review Task Force

On January 21, 2009, the day he was inaugurated, United States President Barack Obama issued three Executive orders related to the detention of individuals in Guantanamo.
He established a task force to re-review the status of all the remaining captives.  Where the OARDEC officials reviewing the status of the captives were all "field grade" officers in the US military (Commanders, naval Captains, Lieutenant Colonels and Colonels) the officials seconded to the task force were drawn from not only the Department of Defense, but also from five other agencies, including the Departments of State, Justice, Homeland Security.  President Obama gave the task force a year, and it recommended the release of Baada and 54 other individuals.

2016-04-16 transfer

On Saturday April 16, 2016, Baada and eight other individuals from Yemen were transferred from Guantanamo to Saudi Arabia. The transfer came a week before President Obama was scheduled to visit Saudi Arabia.

References

Living people
Detainees of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp
Yemeni extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
1978 births