[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Barkan Industrial Park

The Barkan Industrial Park (, lit. Barkan Industrial Area) is located about 25 kilometres east of Tel Aviv in the West Bank. Its offices are located at the northern entrance. The industrial park is located adjacent to the Israeli settlement Barkan and near the settlement and city of Ariel.

A January 2016 report by Human Rights Watch called for companies to pull out from the West Bank since the study says that these companies, including Barkan Industrial Park, violate international law by harming the rights of the Palestinians. However, others contend that the industrial zone is a major source of employment for Palestinian workers.

The international community considers Israeli settlements in the West Bank illegal under international law, but the Israeli government disputes this.

Pollution
It is reported that many highly polluting factories from Israel moved into settlement industrial zones like Barkan to profit from the relative lack of environmental regulations there.

In 1998 Barkan factories generated an estimated 810,000 cubic meters of industrial wastewater, which flowed untreated from the three storage tanks, after a design defect made them nonoperational when overloaded, into a nearby wadi into the agricultural lands of the Palestinian villages of Sarta, Kafr ad-Dik and Bruqin, and reportedly polluting the groundwater with heavy metals.  According to the Palestinian Ministry of Health roughly 70% of cancers among Palestinians in the contiguous Salfit Governorate occur among people living near the industrial park and exposed to the waste overflow.

History
Founded in 1982, in order to strengthen the Jewish presence in the West Bank, the industrial park currently includes about 120 businesses and factories manufacturing plastics, metal-work, food, textiles, and more, with a workforce of 20,000, half of whom are Palestinians.

According to Suleiman Shamlawi, from the nearby village of Haris, large parts of the Barkan industrial plant are built over 215 dunams (22 hectares) of land belonging to his family, which the IDF confiscated in 1981 on the grounds it was not registered as private property in 1967. Shamlawi states that, while this is true, records of his tax payments to the Jordanian authorities prove that the family paid its taxes on the land to the Jordanian governing authority down to 1967. The case was argued before the Supreme Court of Israel which ruled that the Shamlawi family had proven its ownership, and was entitled to register its land with Israel. In 2006, a settler organization produced a contract of sale dating back to 1963 claiming it showed that the family another Palestinian had purchased the terrain from the Shamlawi, and that it was later resold to settlers, a sale document the Shamlawi dismiss as a forgery. Israel's Supreme Court held that Suleiman had sufficiently proved his ownership and could register the land with the Israeli authorities. In 2007, the Israeli Military's Committee for Initial Land Registration rejected the settler's claim that they could register it in their title as lacking credibility, but then confiscated 170 dunams of the Shamlawi land on which Barkan industrial plants had already been constructed. In 2014, in partial recognition of the Shamlawi claims, Israel ruled that 42 dunams of the Barkan industrial estate not yet built on could be registered in Suleiman Shalùmlawi's name.

Israeli-Palestinian conflict
The Israeli government subsidizes companies setting up in West Bank  industrial zones, where the rent and tax rates are much lower than in Israel. A minimal initial investment benefit is passed on to such businesses, together with a package of benefits that favour settlement industrial zones. In Barkan (2012) rent averaged 24/ 27 shekels per square metre, as opposed to the Israeli rate of 43 shekels in industrial zones in Caesarea and Rosh Ha'Ayin, and the rates on Barkan land amount to 47 shekels per square meter, compared to 100 shekels in Rosh Ha'Ayin.

At Barkan Industrial Park thousands of Israelis and Palestinians work in many of the factories.

Numerous Israeli authorities have stated that Barkan is a showcase example of the benefits of Israeli-Palestinian cooperation. According to the settlers own council: the good relationships are evident from the fact in all the years since the beginning of the First Intifada, Barkan operated completely undisturbed. Former Samaria Regional Council head Gershon Mesika said -

Human Rights Watch says that such "rosey sentiments ignore the deeply discriminatory environment in which settlement businesses operate, and Palestinian workers' vulnerability to abuse."