[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tobias Schweinsteiger

na Köln in the playoff. Although he was injured for a longer time in the following season, he managed to score seven goals in 22 appearances. It became his last season as an active footballer, since the club told him early on that his expiring contract would not be extended anymore.

Coaching career

Early coaching career
Schweinsteiger started his coaching career right after his retirement from professional football. In July 2015, Schweinsteiger was hired as an assistant manager of Bayern Munich under-17 team. Schweinsteiger spent two seasons as the assistant manager of the U17 team. In July 2017, Schweinsteiger was promoted as the assistant manager for the Bayern Munich II team. On 9 July 2018, Schweinsteiger was released as the assistant manager of the Bayern Munich II team as Tim Walter left his job as the manager of the Bayern Munich II team. Walter was appointed as the manager of Holstein Kiel and instead of promoting Schweinsteiger to manager, the club appointed Holger Seitz as the new manager of Bayern Munich II. Seitz brought his own assistant manager with him.

Schweinsteiger then became the coach of FC Juniors OÖ. This was announced at the end of December 2018. He then joined Hamburger SV as assistant to Dieter Hecking, but left in 2020 after Hecking's departure. Two weeks later he became assistant to new coach Robert Klauß at 1. FC Nürnberg, where Hecking was now sporting director. Schweinsteiger signed a new contract with Nürnberg in April 2022.

VfL Osnabrück
In August 2022, he was appointed as the head coach of VfL Osnabrück, taking over from Daniel Scherning with the team near the relegation zone. His contract was renewed in March 2023, having taken the team into the promotion battle.

At the end of the 2022–23 season, Schweinsteiger's Osnabrück achieved a 'historic & dramatic' promotion with a 2-1 win over Borussia Dortmund II in the last game of the season after two goals in injury time. The comeback meant Osnabrück gained three places in the table, beating Wehen Wiesbaden to automatic promotion on goal difference after Wiesbaden had already mistakenly begun celebrating promotion. Under Schweinsteiger, Osnabrück won 19 matches and drewfour during the 2022–23 3. Liga season. Also during the 2022–23 season, Schweinsteiger took Osnabrück to the final of the 2022–23 Lower Saxony Cup final.

Career statistics

Playing career

Coaching record

Personal life
In 2006, Schweinsteiger was involved in a car accident that left a 13-year-old girl dead. Police investigation revealed that Schweinsteiger was blameless for the fatal accident.

Notes

References

External links

1982 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Rosenheim
Footballers from Upper Bavaria
German men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
2. Bundesliga players
3. Liga players
Regionalliga players
Oberliga (football) players
VfB Lübeck players
Eintracht Braunschweig players
SpVgg Unterhaching players
SSV Jahn Regensburg players
FC Bayern Munich II players
SSV Jahn Regensburg II players
FC Bayern Munich non-playing staff
Hamburger SV non-playing staff
VfL Osnabrück managers
3. Liga managers