[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# SBInet

meet its original objective of providing a single, integrated border security technology solution," Napolitano said in a prepared statement. "DHS briefed Congress today on my decision to end SBInet as originally conceived and on a new path forward for security technology along the Southwest border.

"The new border security technology plan will utilize existing, proven technology tailored to the distinct terrain and population density of each border region, including commercially available mobile surveillance systems, unmanned aircraft systems, thermal imaging devices, and tower-based remote video surveillance systems. Where appropriate, this plan will also incorporate already existing elements of the former SBInet program that have proven successful, such as stationary radar and infrared and optical sensor towers," the statement said.

The cancellation was welcomed by some members of Congress.

Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.), the ranking member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, also issued a statement describing SBInet as a "grave and expensive disappointment" that cost taxpayers nearly $1 billion for only 53 miles of coverage.

"I am glad that DHS and Customs and Border Protection are finally listening to what we have been saying for years – that the sheer size and variations of our borders show us a one-stop solution has never been best," Thompson wrote. "I applaud them for taking this critical step toward using a more tailored technologically based approach to securing our nation’s borders."

Sen. Joseph Lieberman (I-Conn.) who chaired the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, also supported Napolitano’s decision.

"The Secretary’s decision to terminate SBInet ends a long-troubled program that spent far too much of the taxpayers’ money for the results it delivered," Lieberman said. "The department’s decision to use technology based on the particular security needs of each segment of the border is a far wiser approach, and I hope it will be more cost effective."

References

External links 
 , U.S. Customs and Border Protection
"SBInet Expenditure Plan Needs to Better Support Oversight and Accountability" (pdf), U.S. Government Accountability Office, February 2007
http://hsgac.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=PressReleases.Detail&Affiliation=C&PressRelease_id=e3910540-0678-4f9d-9143-86513c10ff5c&Month=1&Year=2008

United States Department of Homeland Security