[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Babcock International

d, causing the loss of around 6,000 jobs, over half of these based in Britain, reducing its workforce to less than 30,000. Several engineering and transport businesses were purchased during this period. During August 1989, FKI Babcock PLC demerged to form Babcock International Group PLC and FKI plc.

The newly independent Babcock International soon engaged in several acquisitions. In April 1992, the firm bought Middle Eastern energy industry contractor King Wilkinson. That same year, the Swedish ship-to-shore handling business Consilium was also acquired. During 1994, Babcock acquired British conglomerate Thorn EMI's 35 per cent stake in the Rosyth Dockyard, resulting in the creation of Babcock Rosyth Defence. In the same year, Babcock's material handling business, centred in Germany, was reorganised and rebranded as Babcock Materials Handling.

Following the recording of a £42 million loss for the business in 1994, which was largely attributed to its energy division and repercussions from a contract at Drax Power Station, Babcock International responded by strategically avoiding overly-large contracts, unless the associated risk was being shared with other partners. Furthermore, the business decided that it would dispose of its more risky business venture altogether. Amongst other changes, Babcock International's works at Rosyth was heavily impacted, being redirected towards the civil sector, such as the oil industry. During late 1996, Babcock purchased Rosyth from the Ministry of Defence at a net cost of £21m.

During 1995, a 75% stake in the boiler manufacturing and energy services activities (originally the core businesses of Babcock), by then known as Babcock Energy Ltd, were sold to Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding of Japan, and became Mitsui Babcock Energy Ltd. In November 2006, Mitsui sold the company to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, a subsidiary company of the Doosan Group of South Korea: at that time the company was renamed Doosan Babcock Energy Ltd. In September 2009, the Czech-based steam turbine manufacturer, Skoda Power, became part of Doosan Babcock Energy Ltd; this venture was subsequently rebranded Doosan Power Systems Ltd in 2010.

2000 to 2010
In 2000, Babcock took the strategic decision to move away from manufacturing towards maintaining and supporting the critical equipment and infrastructure of customers. Reflecting the successful shift in the company's strategic focus, in 2002 Babcock was duly reclassified on the London Stock Exchange from 'Engineering' to 'Support Services'.

On 19 June 2002, the company acquired Service Group International Ltd, a provider of support services in defence and civil markets. It successfully bid for Peterhouse Group plc, and on 18 June 2004, its bid was declared unconditional as over 50% of shares were held. On 30 September 2004, it acquired Turner and Partners, a provider of professional services to the telecoms industry.

On 9 May 2006, it went on to acquire Alstec Group Ltd, a nuclear and airport services operator, and on 13 June 2006, it bought the high voltage power lines and mobile telecoms business of ABB South Africa (Pty). On 10 May 2007, 19 million new shares were placed to fund acquisitions, and on 28 June 2007, it acquired Devonport Management Limited, operators of the Devonport Dockyard nuclear submarine and surface vessel facilities and Appledore Shipbuilders.

On 25 July 2007, the United Kingdom Government announced that the Aircraft Carrier Alliance, of which Babcock International is a part, would carry out final assembly of two new aircraft carriers for the Royal Navy at their Rosyth Dockyard. On 7 August 2007, acceptances for the acquisition of International Nuclear Solutions PLC reached 58.9% of issued share capital, and a takeover was then completed.

On 22 April 2008, to further strengthen the brand in the nuclear sector and submarine support sector, Babcock acquired Strachan & Henshaw from the Weir Group for £65m; at the time of the transaction, the company had over 50 years of experience in high integrity material handling. In September 2009, Babcock acquired the UK Atomic Energy Authority's commercial arm, UKAEA Ltd; this acquisition extended Babcock's existing nuclear skills, bringing additional expertise in waste categorisation, decommissioning of high hazard facilities, encapsulation and storage of hazardous materials and transportation of waste. The deal also provided Babcock with its first operational Tier 1 position in the civil nuclear market and a direct relationship with the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, complementing its existing Tier 1 position in the military nuclear market.