[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peter Bosz

o lead Ajax to the group stage of the Champions League after losing 5–2 on aggregate to Russian side FC Rostov. On 11 September 2016, Bosz faced his former side Vitesse, as Ajax won 1–0.  On 24 May 2017 Ajax were beaten 2–0 at Friends Arena, Stockholm in the Europa League final by Manchester United.

On 6 June 2017, it was announced that Peter Bosz would transfer to German club Borussia Dortmund. Since there was no buy-out clause in his contract with his previous club, Ajax received nearly €5 million for compensation in order to buy out his contract. It was a record buyout of a head coach for a German club, breaking the previous record of €4 million. After no wins in their Champions League group stage, Dortmund dropped into the Europa League. On 10 December 2017, Bosz was sacked and replaced by Peter Stöger.

On 23 December 2018, he was appointed as the new head coach of Bayer Leverkusen. After his appointment Leverkusen's form improved significantly leading to Leverkusen securing UEFA Champions League qualification in the final game of the season. Bosz was sacked in March 2021 after the team dropped to sixth place with seven points to direct UEFA Champions League qualification.

On 29 May 2021, Bosz was appointed as the head coach of French side Lyon and signed a two-year contract, replacing Rudi Garcia. On 9 October 2022, Bosz was sacked 10 matches into the season with Lyon in 9th place in Ligue 1. He was replaced by Laurent Blanc.

Coaching style
Bosz favours an attacking style of play, based on ball possession and aggressive pressing. Furthermore, Bosz's tactical ideas are heavily influenced by the football of Johan Cruyff.

As a result of this attacking style, Bosz has changed the positions of many of his players. Bosz won plaudits for his conversion of Lasse Schone, who played on the wing for Frank de Boer into the holding midfield position, utilising Schone's technique to enhance Ajax's build-up play. Furthermore, Julian Brandt, was moved from the position of left-winger under Heiko Herrlich into a central attacking midfield position by Bosz, which resulted in a significant upturn in form. While at Lyon, he utilised midfielder Thiago Mendes as a central defender.

However, Bosz's style does have its detractors. His failure at Dortmund was partly credited to a perceived idealistic attacking approach which left Dortmund continuously vulnerable to the counter-attack.

Career statistics

Club

International

Managerial

Honours

Player
Feyenoord
Eredivisie: 1992–93
KNVB Cup: 1991–92, 1993–94, 1994–95

Manager
AGOVV
Hoofdklasse: 2002

Heracles Almelo
Eerste Divisie: 2004–05

Ajax
UEFA Europa League runner-up: 2016–17

Bayer Leverkusen
DFB-Pokal runner up: 2019–20

PSV
Johan Cruyff Shield: 2023

Individual
Rinus Michels Award: 2017

References

External links

1963 births
Living people
Footballers from Apeldoorn
Dutch men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
SBV Vitesse players
AGOVV players
RKC Waalwijk players
SC Toulon players
Feyenoord players
JEF United Chiba players
FC Hansa Rostock players
NAC Breda players
Eredivisie players
Eerste Divisie players
Ligue 1 players
J1 League players
Bundesliga players
Netherlands men's international footballers
UEFA Euro 1992 players
Dutch expatriate men's footballers
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in France
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Japan
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Germany
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Israel
Expatriate men's footballers in France
Expatriate men's footballers in Japan
Expatriate men's footballers in Germany
Dutch football managers
AGOVV managers
De Graafschap managers
Feyenoord non-playing staff
Heracles Almelo managers
SBV Vitesse managers
Maccabi Tel Aviv F.C. managers
AFC Ajax managers
Borussia Dortmund managers
Bayer 04 Leverkusen managers
Olympique Lyonnais managers
PSV Eindhoven managers
Eredivisie managers
Eerste Divisie managers
Israeli Premier League managers
Bundesliga managers
Ligue 1 managers
Rinus Michels Award winners
Dutch expatriate football managers
Expatriate football managers in Germany
Expatriate football managers in Israel