[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Lascar (volcano)

riggered by a precipitation event which added water to the volcan's hydrothermal system. Thermal anomalies from this eruption persisted into 2017 but with a tendency to decrease in number, accompanied by persistent degassing. In December 2022, an explosion generated a  high plume.

Seismic activity 

Seismic activity occurs at Lascar. Research has indicated peculiar patterns, including so called "rapid-fire" events on a background of continuous activity, as well as the occurrence of long-period earthquakes; here and in other volcanoes, this kind of seismic activity is associated with intense fumarolic activity that occurs in the absence of outright eruptions. Harmonic tremor has been recorded at Lascar, perhaps caused by a hydrothermal system. Such tremors may be produced by the movement of liquid materials in the volcano. With the exception of the 1993 eruption, seismic activity associated with eruptions has been sparse. A number of earthquakes were recorded in early February 2012. Between January 2014 and June 2016, about 2–4 volcano-tectonic earthquakes per month were recorded. Long-period earthquakes with magnitudes not exceeding 1.3 were also recorded, with a maximum of 209 events noted in May 2015.

Monitoring and threats

Because of the volcano's remote location, much information on its activity comes from remote sensing.  Lascar's activity has been monitored by Thematic Mapper, which has been used to monitor volcanic activity since 1985, when hot spots were observed on Lascar. The eruptions of April 1993 and September 1986 were both preceded by a reduction of thermal radiation observed by Thematic Mapper.

A monitoring network has been built around the volcano beginning from 2010. These include gas monitoring, seismometers, a weather station and cameras. Unmanned aerial vehicles, occasional reconnaissance flights and infrequent visits to the volcano are also used. The Observatorio Volcanológico de los Andes del Sur in Temuco also employs webcams to watch Lascar.

The National Geology and Mining Service of Chile considers Lascar Chile's 14th most dangerous volcano, and in 2020 classified it as a "type I" volcano. It publishes a volcano alert level for Lascar and has created a volcano hazard map for the volcano. Explosive eruptions and ash falls are the major threat to humans from Lascar. The frequent smaller explosive events commonly occur unexpectedly and can thus endanger people on the mountain. The towns of Tumbres and Talabre may be affected by pyroclastic flows, and ash falls can occur east of the volcano. Such ash falls could potentially hit the towns of San Pedro de Atacama, Talabre and Toconao as well as the Llano de Chajnantor Observatory, the San Pedro de Atacama–Paso de Jama–Jujuy international road and the Sico Pass. Past eruptions caused ash fall in Argentina and disruption of air travel and could have major effects in the Salta Province in case of renewed activity. In 1982, the town of Talabre was moved for safety reasons stemming from flooding and volcanic activity, and ballistic blocks ejected by the volcano are a threat to mountaineers and scientists working on Lascar. Sector collapse and lahars have occurred in the past, but are unlikely to be present-day hazards. 

Heavy metal exposure is a problem for the region. High quantities of arsenic have been observed in local crops. Thallium from the volcano is a pollution hazard in the Talabre area. High nickel concentrations in crops from Talabre appear to be caused by volcanic activity as well.

Climate and biota

The area around Lascar is one of the driest and highest volcanic settings in the world. Precipitation at Lascar is about  and consists mostly of snow. Persistent snow cover exists on the western and southern slopes of the volcano; it contributes partly to the fumarole water. Steam explosions caused by rainfall have been reported. In 1993, yearly precipitation at several towns around Lascar ranged from . Lascar is located close to the Atacama Desert, one of the world's driest deserts.

During the glacial periods, the volcano most likely featured small glaciers. The equilibrium line at Lascar was at an altitude of  during the last glacial maximum. Traces of glaciation also exist at Cerros de Saltar. The end of glaciation may have accompanied an increase in volcanic activity, a phenomenon that has been noted at other volcanoes. 8,500 years ago, the climate in the region became much drier, and the amount of erosion decreased substantially.

Temperatures in the surrounding region range between . Measurements made on the southwest rim of the main crater in 2009–2012 indicated air temperatures of . The present-day snowline in the region lies at an altitude of , higher than the summit of Lascar.

Due to the dry climate, there is little vegetation at Lascar. Bunch grass and shrubs grow on the volcano's slopes. In the deep valleys, groundwater and streams support more plants.