[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# United Nations Transition Assistance Group

onstituent assembly to draft a constitution for the nation. The entire mission was under the control of the Special Representative, Martti Ahtisaari. The military component was commanded by Lieutenant-General Dewan Prem Chand of India. UNTAG was based in Windhoek, Namibia's capital and largest city.

Civilian
The civilian component of the mission had a number of parts as follows:

 Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General (SRSG), Martti Ahtisaari. Their role was to provide support to the SRSG, and provide the political connection with the UN in New York. Martti Ahtisaari's UNTAG office oversaw all aspects of the mission and was specifically in charge of the diplomatic negotiations with Namibian political and military leaders, including the South African Administrator-General (AG), Louis Pienaar. (27 personnel)
 Director of Administration. To ensure compliance with UN policy in areas such as financial accountability, logistic procedures and personnel policy. (354 personnel)
 Civil Police Monitors (CIVPOL). The civilian police formed the largest part of the civilian component of UNTAG, with 1500 personnel. These police were used both to monitor the actions of the existing police and security forces to prevent electoral intimidation or human rights violations as well as to assist with the establishment and maintenance of law and order. 25 member states contributed police officers to the force, which was led by Steven Fanning of Ireland. (1000 personnel)
 Electoral Unit. This branch of UNTAG was charged with planning, facilitating, and monitoring the elections. This group had to register and inform voters and candidates of procedures in a country with no democratic tradition, as well as provide for the secure transport and counting of ballots. Nearly 30 countries volunteered election monitors for polling stations and ballot counting. To educate the Namibian people in the electoral process and to oversee the conduct of the election by the South African Administrator General. (990 personnel)
 United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) was charged with monitoring and assisting the return of refugees from war-torn areas, as well as political exiles, and insurgents based in foreign countries. It both assisted in ensuring access to the country and with resettlement and reintegration into Namibian society prior to the elections.  UNTAG also provided and independent jurist to adjudicate the cases of detainees, political prisoners, and forced exiles. Carl Nörgaard of Denmark was appointed to this position in 1978 and fulfilled its duties when opportunity finally presented itself in 1989. (49 personnel)
 Independent Jurors. To support the SRSG in the assessment and free and fair certification of the elections. (4 personnel)

Military

The military component (MILCOM) was responsible for monitoring the ceasefire, disarming SWAPO militants, overseeing the withdrawal of the SADF, and controlling the borders.

The force was organised as follows:

 UNTAG Force Headquarters. Troops were drawn from 28 countries and the staffing of the Force Commander's Headquarters reflected the various contingent nationalities.  This is a normal practice in UN military missions with senior military staff positions being filled according to national commitments. For example, as a consequence of providing infantry battalions Kenya, Malaysia and Finland provided officers to fill the positions of Deputy Commander, Chief of Staff and Chief of Operations respectively. Poland provided a Chief of Logistics, Czechoslovakia a Chief Military Monitor, Canada a Deputy Chief of Logistics and Australia a Chief Engineer. The implications of lack of common staff procedures are self-evident and caused numerous delays in establishing a functional Headquarters.
 An infantry brigade composed of three enlarged infantry battalions contributed from Finland, Kenya, and Malaysia. Four reserve battalions stationed in their home countries from Bangladesh, Togo, Venezuela and Yugoslavia were identified but not deployed.
 Specialist Group Component (consisted of a Polish Logistic Battalion which provided third line logistic support, a joint military/civilian medical unit based on a Swiss Medical Unit, Danish Movement Control, Danish Postal Unit, Australian Engineer Squadron, Canadian Logistic Unit provided second line logistic support until it was withdrawn, and Support Group Depot and a Signals Squadron from the United Kingdom.
 Military Police Company Monitors from 14 member states.
 Air Support Group Monitors (consisted of a Headquarters Squadron, Tactical Utility Transport Squadron, Heavy Tactical Transport Flight, Medium Transport Helicopter Flight and a Utility Transport Helicopter Squadron) from Italy, and Spain.
 The Soviet Union and the United States also provided transport for the initial deployment of the military forces.

Contributors of Military and Uniformed Personnel