[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Arbëresh language

pronounced  rather than , and  ('Albanian') is pronounced .

GL, KL

In some words, Arbëresh has preserved the consonant clusters  and . In Standard Albanian these have mostly become the palatal stops gj and q, e.g.  not  ('s/he looks like ... '),  not  ('milk'), and  instead of  ('church').

H, HJ

The letter  is pronounced as a voiceless velar fricative  (a sound also found in Greek:  , 'joy'). As such, the Albanian word  ('eat') is pronounced , not . Arbëresh additionally has the palatalized counterpart, . Therefore, the word  ('throw') is pronounced . The letter combination  is present in a few standard Albanian words (without a voiceless velar fricative), but is not treated as a separate letter of the alphabet as it is in Arbëresh.

LL, G, GH

The letters  and  are realised as a voiced velar fricative  (also found in Greek:  , 'milk'). The vast majority of these words originate in Sicilian, but the sound also occurs in words of Albanian origin.  Often  when pronounced  is replaced by  in the Arbëresh orthography, with  in theory reserved for /g/ (although in practice it is inconsistent). This feature is very strong that it is carried over into the Italian speech of inhabitants of Piana degli Albanesi and Santa Cristina Gela in words such as , , , ,  etc. which are realised respectively as , , , ,  etc. In Piana degli Albanesi the tendency is to treat Italian loanwords differently from Sicilian, which results in the difference between , pronounced as  (from , 'lamp post'), and , pronounced as  (from Italian ).  In the first example, the  becomes   because it comes from Sicilian, whereas in the process of transference from the Italian  to Arbëresh , the  does not change but the  becomes .

Final devoicing of consonants 
In contrast with standard Albanian, Arbëresh has retained an archaic system of final devoicing of consonants. The consonants that change when in final position or before another consonant are the voiced stops b, d, g, gj; the voiced affricates x, xh; and the voiced fricatives dh, ll, v, z, zh.

Examples:
 b > p: thelb ('clove') - 
 d > t: vend ('place') - 
 dh > th: zgledh ('read') - 
 g > k: lig ('bad') - 
 gj > q: zogj ('chicks') - 
 j > hj: vaj ('oil') - 
 ll > h: uthull ('vinegar') - 
 x > c: ndanx ('near') - 
 z > s: loz ('dance') - 
 zh > sh: gozhda ('pin') -

Stress 
Stress in Arbëresh is usually on the penultimate syllable, as in Italian.

Morphology 
In Arbëresh the first person present indicative (e.g. "I work") is marked by the word ending in NJ, whereas in Albanian this is normally marked by J. So, 'I live' is rrónj in Arbëresh and rroj in standard Albanian.
The present continuous or gerund differs from Standard Albanian; Arbëresh uses the form "jam'e bënj" instead of "po bej" (I am doing).

Non-Albanian derived elements

Vocabulary 
The adoption of words of ancient Greek origin or of the Koine comes above all from their use in Byzantine religious practices, when the corresponding use in Albanian declined, the "courtly" one of the church was used. The Arberesh use ancient Greek in their liturgies. Thus synonyms are created, such as parkales or lutje for the word "prayer".

Some Arbëresh words appear to be of Koine Greek influence. Examples:

amáhj  ('war') <   ('battle').
haristís   ('thank') <   ('thank you'). Arvanitika uses fharistisem.
hora  ('village') <   ('land, village')
parkalés  ('I plead', 'please') from   ('please').
hiravol (sheaf, a bundle of harvested crop), < χειρόβολο (χειρ = hand).

Some Arbëresh words appear to be of Albanian Arvanitika which has influenced the current Greek areas since the Middle Ages. Examples:

dhomat (bundle, pack), < Gr. δεμάτιον.
argomē (fallow, plowing), < όργωμα. Today surviving in the toponym Argomazit of Piana dei Albanesi.
kalogreshza (little woman monk), < καλόγρια = woman monk.
gjitonia (neighbourhood), < γειτονία.
dhaskal (teacher), < δάσκαλος.

On the Koine Greek elements in the Italo-Albanian dialects see T. Jochalas (1975).

Archaic Latin-Sicilianisms 
In the Arbëresh varieties of Sicily and Calabria there are loanwords from the Sicilian language that have crystallized into the Arberesh language matrix at some time in the past but have now mostly disappeared, or evolved in the romance vocabulary of the local population. This also occurs in other Arberesh varieties outside of Sicily with the local Romance varieties of their communities.

Examples: