[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# H. P. S. Ahluwalia

ds, set up the Indian Spinal Injuries Centre (ISIC) in Vasant Kunj, New Delhi, India in 1993. He also served as an IOFS officer. His experiences have appeared in school books such as in the NCERT Class 8 English textbook. He met many great achievers such as  Indira Gandhi, APJ Abdul Kalam et cetera.

Positions
Chairman – Indian Spinal Injuries Centre.
Chairman – Planning Committee of Persons with Disability of 12 year plan and Chairman of the committee of drafting country report.
Former president – Indian Mountaineering Foundation.
Former president – Delhi Mountaineering Association.
Former chairman – Special Ability Trust (created to assist young achievers with disabilities with *fellowships and scholarships).
Former chairman – Youth Exploring Society (with its chapters in Ireland, West Germany and Italy).
Former chairman – Rehabilitation Council of India (a statutory body under the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment).
Member – Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust.
Member – Planning Commission – Steering committee of the Social Welfare and other special groups.
Member – National Consultation on National Policy for PwD.
Member – CII Core Group on Disability.
Member – National Finance and Revenue Committee constituted by Ministry of Finance.
Member – CBR (Community Based Rehabilitation), in collaboration with AISPO-ITALY.
Member – International Spinal Cord Society

Personal life and death
Major Hari Pal Singh Ahluwalia died in Delhi on 14 January 2022, at the age of 85.

Bibliography
Higher than Everest

The Summit Within
Eternal Himalaya
Beyond the Himalayas
Everest- Where the Snow never melts
Hermit Kingdom Ladakh

Ladakh Nubra The Forbidden Valley
 Tracing Marco Polo's Journey

Awards

Medal bar

National Awards
Arjuna Award-1965

Padma Shri-1965
Padma Bhushan-2002

Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award for lifetime achievement-29 August 2009

National Award for the Welfare of People with Disabilities-3 December 1998

Order of the Khalsa (Nishan-e- Khalsa) Tercentenary of the Birth of Khalsa

International Awards
FRGS – Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society (United Kingdom)
Fellowship conferred for significant contribution to studies and literature written on Environment and Adventure
CONDOR-DE-ORO – A high Argentinian honour given for overall contribution to adventure writing / participation in Adventure Sports.
Advisor/Consultant to the Argentina Everest Expedition
World Health Initiative for Peace Award, 29 July 2013

Gallery

See also
Indian summiters of Mount Everest - Year wise
List of Mount Everest summiters by number of times to the summit
List of Mount Everest records of India
List of Mount Everest records

References

1936 births
2022 deaths
Indian Ordnance Factories Service officers
Indian summiters of Mount Everest
Indian mountain climbers
Recipients of the Padma Shri in sports
Recipients of the Arjuna Award
Recipients of the Padma Bhushan in social work
Indian Army officers
Mountain climbers from Punjab, India
Military personnel from Punjab, India
Social workers from Punjab, India
Indian Sikhs
People from Sialkot
20th-century Indian educators
Recipients of the Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award