[Source: Gutenberg#7370 | Part 46]
# The Social Contract — Jean-Jacques Rousseau

e the
municipal law has given no direction, till the legislative can
conveniently be assembled to provide for it. Many things there are,
which the law can by no means provide for; and those must necessarily be
left to the discretion of him that has the executive power in his hands,
to be ordered by him as the public good and advantage shall require:
nay, it is fit that the laws themselves should in some cases give way to
the executive power, or rather to this fundamental law of nature and
government, viz. That as much as may be, all the members of the society
are to be preserved: for since many accidents may happen, wherein a
strict and rigid observation of the laws may do harm; (as not to pull
down an innocent man’s house to stop the fire, when the next to it is
burning) and a man may come sometimes within the reach of the law, which
makes no distinction of persons, by an action that may deserve reward
and pardon; ’tis fit the ruler should have a power, in many cases, to
mitigate the severity of the law, and pardon some offenders: for the end
of government being the preservation of all, as much as may be, even the
guilty are to be spared, where it can prove no prejudice to the
innocent.

Sect. 160. This power to act according to discretion, for the public
good, without the prescription of the law, and sometimes even against
it, is that which is called prerogative: for since in some governments
the lawmaking power is not always in being, and is usually too numerous,
and so too slow, for the dispatch requisite to execution; and because
also it is impossible to foresee, and so by laws to provide for, all
accidents and necessities that may concern the public, or to make such
laws as will do no harm, if they are executed with an inflexible rigour,
on all occasions, and upon all persons that may come in their way;
therefore there is a latitude left to the executive power, to do many
things of choice which the laws do not prescribe.

Sect. 161. This power, whilst employed for the benefit of the community,
and suitably to the trust and ends of the government, is undoubted
prerogative, and never is questioned: for the people are very seldom or
never scrupulous or nice in the point; they are far from examining
prerogative, whilst it is in any tolerable degree employed for the use
it was meant, that is, for the good of the people, and not manifestly
against it: but if there comes to be a question between the executive
power and the people, about a thing claimed as a prerogative; the
tendency of the exercise of such prerogative to the good or hurt of the
people, will easily decide that question.

Sect. 162. It is easy to conceive, that in the infancy of governments,
when commonwealths differed little from families in number of people,
they differed from them too but little in number of laws: and the
governors, being as the fathers of them, watching over them for their
good, the government was almost all prerogative. A few established laws
served the turn, and the discretion and care of the ruler supplied the
rest. But when mistake or flattery prevailed with weak princes to make
use of this power for private ends of their own, and not for the public
good, the people were fain by express laws to get prerogative determined
in those points wherein they found disadvantage from it: and thus
declared limitations of prerogative were by the people found necessary
in cases which they and their ancestors had left, in the utmost
latitude, to the wisdom of those princes who made no other but a right
use of it, that is, for the good of their people.

Sect. 163. And therefore they have a very wrong notion of government,
who say, that the people have encroached upon the prerogative, when they
have got any part of it to be defined by positive laws: for in so doing
they have not pulled from the prince any thing that of right belonged to
him, but only declared, that that power which they indefinitely left in
his or his ancestors hands, to be exercised for their good, was not a
thing which they intended him when he used it otherwise: for the end of
government being the good of the community, whatsoever alterations are
made in it, tending to that end, cannot be an encroachment upon any
body, since no body in government can have a right tending to any other
end: and those only are encroachments which prejudice or hinder the
public good. Those who say otherwise, speak as if the prince had a
distinct and separate interest from the good of the community, and was
not made for it; the root and source from which spring almost all those
evils and disorders which happen in kingly governments. And indeed, if
that be so, the people under his government are not a society of
rational creatures, entered into a community for their mutual good; they
are not such as have set rulers over themselves, to guard, and promote
that good; but are to be looked on as an herd of inferior cre