[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Miguel del Valle

s.

City clerk
In 2006, Miguel del Valle was appointed City Clerk of Chicago by Mayor Richard M. Daley after the previous clerk, James Laski, was indicted on federal charges.  Del Valle won a citywide election to the post in 2007, becoming the first Latino elected to the Chicago City Clerk's office.

As city clerk, del Valle's office is responsible for maintaining official city government records, distributing approximately 1.3 million vehicle stickers and residential parking permits, and issuing city business licenses.

Clerk del Valle is focused on bringing more efficiency and visibility to city clerk services by providing greater access to public records, including web casting of City Council meetings, expanding community outreach programs, modernizing operations to expedite the sale of dog registrations, city stickers and residential parking.

Significant City Council transparency efforts include  posting nearly 700,000 pages of searchable City Council records to the City Clerk website, www.ChiCityClerk.com.  This includes every ordinance passed since 1981, the Byrne Administration, as well as city budgets and Mayoral Executive orders going back nearly 30 years. In addition, for the first time ever, City Council meetings can be watched live or on demand via a City Council video archive on the City Clerk website, www.ChiCityClerk.com.

Campaign for mayor

After Mayor Daley announced that he would not run for another term, del Valle was the first to declare his candidacy in the 2011 Chicago mayoral election. He was the first candidate to air a campaign ad on television, the first to have a website and Facebook page, and the first (and only) candidate to publicly declare he would not accept campaign contributions from companies that do business with the city.

Del Valle ran a grassroots campaign, which was energetic, but underfunded. Del Valle ran as a reformer, taking stands on issues such as campaign finance reform and advocating increased powers for the city's inspector general. Del Valle's campaign strategy focused on the city's neighborhoods, and sought to portray him as an individual who would foster ground-up change focused on working with and working in the city's communities. He hoped to mobilize enough progressives across the city to participate in his campaign to allow him to run successfully despite having a low budget. He also sought to project a "man of the people" image, emphasizing his Latino identity and his ties to the city. He also touted his record from his tenure as a state senator.

On the issue of schools, del Valle supported an eventual transition to an elected school board with districts, a stance which contrasted with Gery Chico, Rahm Emanuel, and Carol Moseley Braun's opposition to an elected school board. He supported lengthening both the school day and school year. He also supported negotiating with the Chicago Teachers Union a stronger system for teacher evaluation. Of the top four candidates running, his stances were the most in-line with those of the Chicago Teachers Union.

While del Valle sought to garner Latino support, he ran at a deficit to fellow Hispanic candidate Gery Chico in garnering Latino support. However, he received the endorsements Hispanic politicians such as Rey Colón, William Delgado, Jesús "Chuy" García, Elizabeth Hernandez, Edwin Reyes, and Cynthia Soto.

Del Valle also won the endorsements of Robyn Gabel, Northside Democracy for America and Independent Voters of Illinois-Independent Precinct Organization.

Del Valle's campaign lacked funds. He was only able to raise less than $132,000 in donations. He was only able to produce single televised advertisement campaign.

Despite his efforts, the grassroots support his campaign strategy had been counting on failed to materialize.

In the election he came in third in a field of six, with about nine percent of the vote. In his concession speech he promised to continue to push for a progressive agenda, though he would soon leave office as City Clerk.

Illinois Commerce Commission 
Del Valle was also appointed by Illinois Governor Pat Quinn on February 8, 2013, to a five-year term on the Illinois Commerce Commission ("ICC"). The ICC's mission is to balance the interests of consumers and utilities to ensure adequate, efficient, reliable, safe, and least-cost public utility services, while promoting the development of an effectively competitive energy supplier market. The ICC also oversees transportation activities, including railroad safety, trucking insurance and registration, relocation and safety towing, and household goods moving companies.

President of the Chicago Board of Education

Del Valle took office as the president of the Chicago Board of Education on June 26, 2019, having been appointed to that position by Mayor Lori Lightfoot. 

During his tenure, the school district dealt with the challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic.