[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# CMLL World Trios Championship

The CMLL World Trios Championship (Spanish: "Campeonato Mundial de Trios") is a professional wrestling championship promoted by Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) in Mexico. The title has existed since 1991 and is contested for by teams of three wrestlers. </ref>

The first champions were Los Infernales ("The Infernal Ones"; MS-1, Pirata Morgan and El Satánico) who won a tournament on November 22, 1991. Since then 28 trios have held the championship. The current champions are Los Cancerberos del Infierno (Virus, Raziel and Cancerbero) after having defeated Stuka Jr., Guerrero Maya Jr. and Star Jr. to win the vacant titles on April 24, 2021. The championship has been vacated on four occasions, each time leading to CMLL holding a tournament to determine new champions. Only two teams have held the title on more than one occasion, Los Infernales and the trio of Héctor Garza, Hijo del Fantasma and La Máscara.

History
With the emergence of trios (tag teams consisting of three people) such as Los Misioneros de la Muerte, Los Brazos and more, the six-man tag team match became increasingly popular in the early 1980s. Its popularity led to the trios format becoming the most prevalent match format in Lucha libre to this day. In 1985, the Mexican lucha libre, or professional wrestling, promotion Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre ("Mexican Wrestling Enterprise"; EMLL) was given control of the newly created Mexican National Trios Championship. Over the subsequent six years, that championship became the focal point of the very popular trios division, serving as the highest honor EMLL could bestow on a trio at the time. In 1991, EMLL changed their name to Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre ("World Wrestling Council") and began to establish a series of CMLL-branded world championships, relegating the Mexican National championships to being a secondary level of championships within the company. In 1991, CMLL added a CMLL-branded world championship for the trios division. They held a 16-team tournament to crown the first champions, a tournament that saw "Los Infernales" ("The Infernal Ones"; MS-1, Pirata Morgan and El Satánico) defeat "Los Brazos" ("The Arms"; El Brazo, Brazo de Oro and Brazo de Plata) to become the first CMLL World Trios Champions. Over the next couple of years, the championship would be held by such teams as "Los Intocables" ("The Untouchables" Jaque Mate, Masakre and Pierroth Jr.) and "La Ola Blanca" ("The White Wave"; Gran Markus Jr., El Hijo del Gladiador and Dr. Wagner Jr.). In 1993, the then-reigning Mexican National Trios Champions left CMLL, and the Mexico City Boxing and wrestling commission allowed the champions to take the Mexican National Trios Championship with them. From 1993 through 2001, when the Mexican National Trios Championship returned to CMLL, the CMLL World Trios Championship was the only championship for the division.

In 1997 then-reigning champion Héctor Garza, who held the title along with Dos Caras and La Fiera, left CMLL, forcing the championship to be vacated. Subsequently, the team of Rey Bucanero, Emilio Charles Jr. and El Satánico won the championship in a tournament final over Apolo Dantés, Black Warrior, and Dr. Wagner Jr. In October 1998, the championship was vacated again when Mr. Niebla was injured, forcing his teammates Atlantis and Lizmark to give up the championship. The Lagunero team of Black Warrior, Blue Panther and Dr. Wagner Jr. defeated "Los Guapos" ("The Hansome Ones"; Bestia Salvaje, Scorpio Jr. and Zumbido) in the tournament finals, but vacated the championship in February 2002. Blue Panther and Dr. Wagner Jr. replaced Black Warrior with Fuerza Guerrera and defeated Black Warrior's new team of Mr. Niebla, Antifaz del Norte and Black Warrior himself. In 2006, the championship were vacated once again after not being defended for almost 20 months. Los Guerreros de Atlantida ("The Warriors from Atlantis"; Atlantis, Tarzan Boy and Último Guerrero) won the championship on September 29, 2006, and began defending it on a regular basis. In February 2007 Los Perros del Mal ("The Bad Dogs"; Perro Aguayo Jr., Mr. Águila and Héctor Garza) won the championship and held it for 15 months before splitting up and vacating the championship. The team of El Hijo del Fantasma, Héctor Garza and La Máscara won the tournament, defeating Blue Panther, Dos Caras Jr. and Místico in the finals. In 2015 CMLL's Guadalajara branch brought back the Occidente ("Western") Trios Championship, specifically for their shows held in Jalisco, Guadalajara. The Occidente championship is considered tertiary to both the world and national championships.

Reigns