[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Biblioteca Nacional de Portugal

rs of 148 writers and other figures from the 19th and 20th centuries. Leading names include Fernando Pessoa, Eça de Queirós, Camilo Castelo Branco, Camilo Pessanha, Antero de Quental, Oliveira Martins, Jaime Cortesão, Raul Proença, Vitorino Nemésio, Vergílio Ferreira and José Saramago, among others.

Cartography 
The Cartography collection holds around 6,800 titles composed of both printed and manuscript atlases, maps and plans that have been made and/or published since the 16th century. Although the collection includes cartographic representations of every part of the world, the majority of the items portray Portugal and its former overseas domains.

Iconography 
The Iconographic collections contain around 117,000 images on paper and have constituted a specialised section of the Library since 1976. They were originally formed from three initial collections that belonged to the Rare Books and Manuscripts Division (Prints, Drawings, and Religious Pictures), but were organised into a separate collection when the Library became fully aware of their importance to the study of history, sociology, art and so on, and came to recognise their heritage value.

Music 
The BNP's Music Collection is one of the most important in Portugal, and is especially useful for historical and musicological research. It contains more than 50,000 items ranging from the 12th to the 20th centuries, most of which were produced in Portugal. In addition to printed and manuscript scores, it offers books and periodicals on musical subjects, librettos, programmes, posters, photographs, a variety of personal and institutional archives and other material linked to the production of music and musical recordings.

Reading for the Visually Impaired 
The reading service for the Visually Impaired has held and produced works in Braille and audio books since 1969. The service uses the paper, magnetic tape and digital formats. It has more than 7,000 items in Braille, including 4,000 musical works, and 1,575 audio titles.

See also
 Torre do Tombo National Archive
 Open access in Portugal

References 
This article includes text copied and potentially modified from websites of the Biblioteca Nacional de Portugal. This content has been licensed under the CC By 4.0 license. It was authored by the National Library of Portugal. The content is also hosted at the library's website at the following links: History, Mission and Activities and Collections (and subpages)

Further reading

External links
Official website
 Biblioteca Nacional Digital
  (Includes articles related to the National Library)

1796 establishments in Portugal
Culture in Lisbon
Deposit libraries
Libraries in Portugal
Libraries established in 1796
Portugal
Articles with imported freely licensed text