[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Black harrier

hes). A quarter of the nests were subject to nest predation both egg predation and nestling predation.

More evidence is needed but it may be that after a breeding year, black harriers take a 'Sabbatical year" in reproduction to recover from the physiological stress of breeding.

Conservation Issues

Habitat Loss 
The black harrier population has declined in recent years to fewer than 1000 birds, and it is now considered endangered in South Africa, Lesotho and Namibia. This is due to the destruction of its original breeding habitat, South Africa's natural shrubland, the fynbos, which has been greatly reduced by encroaching cereal culture and urban expansion as well as the invasion of alien plant species. Because of this, the black harriers have been displaced from their lowland Renosterveld and Fynbos habitats into a more montane habitat which unlike the Renosterveld and Fynbos is not characterised by foraging and nesting opportunities. The harriers in the montane environments are not as successful as those along the coastal strip which has fynbos, they breed poorly, take a wide range of prey and are subject to high levels of nest predation. Breeding at coastal sites is more successful than breeding at montane sites as they start breeding earlier, hatch larger broods and fledge more young. They are also subject to lower levels of nest predation. This land transformation has therefore negatively effected the black harriers

Pollutants 
Carotenoids are pigments which are responsible for the yellow, orange and red coloration of traits such as the eye and plumages, displayed by many avian species. These play a large role in bird communication and social interactions. In nestlings these colourations likely play a role in parent off-spring communication. For example, for parents to assess nestling conditions and needs and to then adjust their care and feeding appropriately. Black harriers display carotenoid based colouration from a few days of after birth. These carotenoid pigments cannot be synthesised and need to be ingested by the harriers. Nestlings with a bird rich diet have higher levels of circulating carotenoids and display a greater carotenoud based colouration than those consuming more mammals. However, both circulating carotenoids and carotenoid based colouration have been shown to be affected by non-organic (like heavy metals) and organic (like persistent organic pollutants) contaminants. These pollutants may interfere with the communication processed that rely on carotenoid coloured traits. They may also potentially impose stress that alters nutrient requirements and use. DDT contaminated black harrier nestlings have significantly lower levels of circulating carotenoids and  carotenoid-based coloration

References

External links 

 Black Harrier - Species text in The Atlas of Southern African Birds
 BirdLife Species Factsheet
 Black Harrier videos on the Internet Bird Collection
 Black Harrier at Raptors Namibia
  Black harrier photos at Fernkloof Nature Reserve

black harrier
Birds of Southern Africa
Birds of prey of Sub-Saharan Africa
black harrier