[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of Wild Cards characters

instein, Jonas Salk, J. Robert Oppenheimer, and Wernher von Braun, so that there would be "back-up" copies of their knowledge. This made it even more difficult for her to maintain her mental balance; so, Tachyon began tutoring her in Takisian methods of mental control, when he was not romancing her.

The climate of the United States was growing harsher, and the Four Aces were called before the HUAC committee, who demanded to know the names of any Aces they had dealt with. When Golden Boy let slip that Brain Trust had also absorbed a copy of Tachyon's memories, which meant she knew all the Wild Carders Tachyon had treated, the Committee eagerly called her to the stand and began to browbeat and interrogate her. The fragile union of minds inside her made it difficult to resist, and she began to break down and name names. Tachyon, aghast, tried to telepathically force her silence, but only succeeded in shattering her remaining mental defenses, causing her to suffer a complete mental breakdown. Tachyon was deported, and Blythe was placed in a mental institution, where she eventually died of neglect.

After his pardon and return to America in the 1960s, Tachyon founded the Blythe van Renssaeler Memorial Hospital in the heart of New York's Jokertown, in honor of Brain Trust. More commonly known as the Jokertown Clinic, it has treated (if not necessarily cured) thousands of victims of the Wild Card virus. Fleur van Renssaeler, Blythe's daughter by her estranged husband, grew up to hate both the Wild Card virus and its creator, Dr. Tachyon. A supporter of anti-Wild-Card preacher Leo Barnett's bid for the presidency, Fleur once tried to seduce Tachyon in order to get information from him. During the brief encounter, Tachyon imagined himself with Blythe, while Fleur overcame her hatred of Tachyon by fantasizing about Leo Barnett. Blythe's granddaughter Dr. Clara van Renssaeler now works at the clinic.

Carnifex
Carnifex (William "Billy" Ray) was created by John J. Miller.

Carnifex (Latin for "butcher") is Billy Ray's nickname, which was given to him for his love of violence. Infection with the Wild Card virus has given him superhuman strength, speed, and stamina, along with a rapid regenerative healing factor and a heightened instinct for physical combat. His strength makes his fists like 10-pound sledge hammers, and his speed gives him a marked advantage over average opponents. In Wild Card terminology, this makes him an Ace.

Billy Ray was a college football star in the late 1970s, playing for the Michigan Wolverines. He was able to hide his Wild Card infection until he broke his leg in three places in the first quarter of the Rose Bowl (on national TV) and tried to return to the game before halftime.

He was recruited by the U.S. Justice Department, and has worked for them ever since, performing various missions such as protecting government officials and hunting down other Aces. He is highly aggressive and confrontational, and will fight at the slightest provocation. Despite his demeanor, he is obsessed with cleanliness, prefers his office absolutely neat, and hates getting bloodstains on his signature fighting suit, a form-fitting white jumpsuit with a black hood. He has several, as they generally get covered in blood, his and his opponents.

As he has gotten older, his ability to regenerate has slowed, and he takes longer to heal between battles. Secretly he fears that someday he will stop healing altogether. His powers of regeneration were put to the ultimate test when he fought the Vibrating Joker/Ace Mackie Messer (aka Mack the Knife, real name: Detlev Mackintosh). He was shredded and torn in this battle, losing most of his jaw and several fingers, and took several months to fully heal. His regeneration is not perfect, as his body and face are a mass of scar tissue and obvious war wounds, and his features are slightly irregular from having his facial bones broken and reset so many times.

Chrysalis
Chrysalis was created by John J. Miller.

Chrysalis is the current owner/operator of the Crystal Palace, one of Jokertown's most well known nightclubs. She has blue eyes, almost totally transparent skin and muscle tissue, and no hair. She usually wears minimal amounts of clothing to emphasize this fact. She speaks with a convincing but false British accent. Chrysalis' primary occupation is the selling of information. She seems to know everything that happens in New York, and will buy and sell anything anyone wants to know for a price. She is one of the major players in Jokertown, although most of her work is done behind the scenes.

She had an intense affair with Yeoman. She was brutally murdered by Hiram Worchester (while he was under the influence of Ti Malice) in 1988.

Deadhead
Deadhead is an Ace, someone granted super-powers by exposure to the Wild Card virus; but the disturbing nature of his power has driven him nearly insane.