[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Zheng Yi Sao

s (2003), directed by Ermanno Olmi, is loosely based on Jorge Luis Borges' short story The Widow Ching, Lady Pirate.
 Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End (2007), directed by Gore Verbinski, featured a character played by Takayo Fischer named Mistress Ching that is loosely based on Zheng Yi Sao.

Virtual reality experience 
 Madame Pirate: Becoming a Legend (2021), directed by Dan Chi Huang and Morgan Ommer, is a fictional re-telling of Zheng Yi Sao's rise to power. With Yi Ti Yao, Shang-Ho Huang, Ling Yuan Kung, Hao-Hsiang Hsu. Produced by Serendipity Films.

Literature 

 The short story The Widow Ching, Lady Pirate in A Universal History of Infamy (1935) by Jorge Luis Borges is loosely based on Zheng Yi Sao's life.
 In The Wake of the Lorelei Lee (2012), book 8 of L.A. Meyer's Bloody Jack series, the character Cheng Shih is based on Zheng Yi Sao.
 The Flower Boat Girl (2021) by Larry Feign is a fictional novel based closely on the life of Zheng Yi Sao, incorporating historical research done by the author.
 The science fiction novel Mickey7 (2022), by Edward Ashton, refers to the first interstellar human colonial mission as having departed on a ship named the Ching Shih. A film adaptation of the novel, directed by Bong Joon-Ho, has been reported to be Bong's next project.
 The science fiction novel The Red Scholar's Wake (2022), by Aliette de Bodard, features space pirates modelled on Ching Shih and the pirates of the South China Sea.
 Taiwanese-American author Rita Chang-Eppig published a fictionalized biography of Zheng Yi Sao in her debut novel Deep as the Sky, Red as the Sea (2023), referring to the heroine of her story by the name she's associated with in Taiwan, Shek Yeung.

Manga and graphic novels 

 In chapter 15 of Codename: Sailor V (November 1997), a manga created by Naoko Takeuchi, Sailor V transforms temporarily into Zheng Yi Sao.
 Afterlife (2006) is a OEL graphic novel that depicts Zheng Yi Sao as a guardian who fights demons to protect the denizens of the underworld.
 In chapter 60 of Worn and Torn Newbie, a Korean webtoon, a female pirate captain appears as Ching Shih.

Television 

 In Captain of Destiny (2015), a Hong Kong television drama, Maggie Shiu plays Shek Kiu (), who is based on Zheng Yi Sao.
 Zheng Yi Sao is portrayed by Crystal Yu in the 2022 Doctor Who special "Legend of the Sea Devils".
 In season 2 of HBO's Our Flag Means Death, Zheng Yi Sao is portrayed by Ruibo Qian.

Podcasts

 An episode of BBC Sounds podcast You're Dead To Me focuses on Zheng Yi Sao. Host Greg Jenner is joined by Ria Lina and Prof. Ronald C. Po.

 In an episode of Sweetbitter podcast, Pirates: Zheng Yi Sao & 20th c. Chinese Piracy, hosts Leesa Charlotte and Ellie Brigida are joined by Laura Duncombe, Jamie Goodall, and Alyse Knorr in a discussion of Zheng Yi Sao's life and legacy.

Video games 

 The Pirate hero from For Honor is heavily inspired by Ching Shih.
 Baozhai, a character from Indivisible, is inspired by Ching Shih.
 Jing Lang, an antagonist in Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag is inspired by Ching Shih.
 Ching Shih is a "Great Admiral" unit in strategy game Civilization VI, which grants extra rewards for plundering trade routes.

Music 

  The song "Bloody Rose of China" by The Jolly Rogers tells a version of the story of her life.

Musicals 

 The musical Asian Pirate Musical features a version of her.

See also
Pirates of the South China Coast
Cheung Po Tsai

References

Footnotes

Sources

External links
"The Chinese Female Pirate Who Commanded 80,000 Outlaws", APRIL 6, 2016. UPDATED: JUNE 15, 2022. Atlas Obscura

1775 births
1844 deaths
18th-century Chinese women
18th-century Chinese people
19th-century Chinese women
19th-century Chinese people
19th-century pirates
Chinese brothel owners and madams
Chinese female prostitutes
Chinese pirates
Chinese female pirates
People from Guangzhou
Qing dynasty people
Date of birth unknown
Date of death unknown
Women in war in China
Women in 18th-century warfare
Women in 19th-century warfare