[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Charleston (1862)

ding Charleston, also contained a large amount of supplies used by Union troops. Major General William W. Loring was ordered to clear the Kanawha Valley of Union soldiers, and then move northeast to form a junction with more Confederate soldiers in the Shenandoah Valley.

Opposing forces

Union army

Colonel Joseph Andrew Jackson Lightburn assumed command of the Kanawha District on August 17, 1862. He was very religious and had little combat experience. Under his command were seven infantry regiments and one cavalry regiment. He also had eight mountain howitzers and six artillery pieces—three rifled and three smooth bore. His forces were:
 The First Brigade was commanded by Colonel Edward Siber. It consisted of the 34th and 37th Ohio Infantry regiments. Siber had over 20 years of service as a German soldier in Prussia and Brazil.
 The Second Brigade was commanded by Colonel Samuel A. Gilbert. Gilbert had combat experience, and had fought in the Battle of Cheat Mountain and the Battle of Lewisburg. Under his command were the 44th and 47th Ohio Infantry regiments. Gilbert's brigade also included two companies from the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry Regiment, later named 2nd West Virginia Cavalry, commanded by Major John J. Hoffman. At the time of the battle, four companies from the 4th Loyal Virginia Infantry Regiment and one company from the 9th Loyal Virginia Infantry Regiment had been placed under Gilbert's command.
 Other troops that were not permanently attached to a brigade were the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry, and the 4th, 8th, and 9th Loyal Virginia infantry regiments. These regiments were often split and scattered throughout the region. Over half of the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry, commanded by Colonel John C. Paxton, was elsewhere during the battle. Two companies, commanded by Major John J. Hoffman, were with Gilbert's Second Brigade. Another two cavalry companies were under the command of the cavalry's Lieutenant Colonel Rollin L. Curtis. The 4th Loyal Virginia Infantry was present at the battle and commanded by Lieutenant Colonel William H. H. Russell. There is no evidence that the 8th Loyal Virginia Infantry was present for the battle at Charleston. The only casualty known for that regiment, in the entire campaign, occurred in October.

Confederate army

Major General William W. Loring commanded the Department of Southwestern Virginia. He had been a soldier since the age of 14, was a sergeant at the age of 17, and fought in the Second Seminole War and the Mexican–American War. Under his command were six infantry regiments, three infantry battalions, and batteries.
 The First Brigade was normally commanded by Brigadier General John Echols. It consisted of the 50th and 63rd Virginia Infantry regiments, plus Derrick's 23rd Virginia Infantry Battalion. Echols became ill, so the brigade was commanded by Colonel John McCausland. Added to this brigade were the 22nd and 36th Virginia Infantry regiments. Also part of the brigade were Lowry's Battery, Otey's Battery, and a small portion of cavalry.
 The Second Brigade was commanded by Brigadier General John S. Williams. Under his command were Edgar's Battalion and the 45th Virginia Infantry Regiment. The 22nd Virginia Infantry Regiment was detached to the First Brigade. His artillery (six pieces) was led by Major John Floyd King.
 The Third Brigade was commanded by Colonel Gabriel C. Wharton. In the battle of Charleston, the brigade united and cooperated with the Second Brigade commanded by Brigadier General Williams. The brigade consisted of the 51st Virginia Infantry Regiment and 30th Virginia Sharpshooters Battalion (a.k.a. Clarke's Battalion of Sharpshooters).

Movement to battle

Cavalry raid

Confederate Major General Loring planned to take control of the Kanawha River Valley by leading a large force in an assault on Union forces located in Raleigh, Fayette, and Kanawha counties. As early as August 31, Union leaders had received reports that Loring had a force of 10,000 troops. Loring's force actually consisted of about 5,000 men instead the rumored 10,000, but he expected to add to it by recruiting and organizing existing local militias.