[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pat Dolan

club went on to win the league title in 2005 under new manager Damien Richardson, with the notable addition of Roy O'Donovan. A key factor in the victory in 2005 was the ability for Cork City to finally beat Shelbourne, something which they never managed while Dolan was in charge.

Waterford United

In September 2005 Dolan was appointed as an "advisor" for the Blues and their under pressure manager Brendan Rea. At the time of his appointment, Waterford United were at the foot of the table and doomed to an impending relegation. However, Dolan's appointment inspired Waterford United to a remarkable turnaround, and eventually the team secured their status in the league comfortably with two games to spare. They eventually finished 8th place in the Premier League, seven points clear of the relegation playoff spot that for so long looked theirs. Many believe Dolan's success at Waterford United was his greatest achievement, given the despairing position the club was in before his appointment. He left his role at the club at the end of this season.

Media 
Throughout his St Pats and Cork City days Dolan wrote a weekly column in the tabloid newspaper Irish Daily Star. His outspoken and often controversial column saw Dolan's profile rise outside the League of Ireland scene. After his departure from Cork City, Dolan joined Setanta Sports as their main football pundit. He continues to front their Setanta Sports Cup coverage, as well as commentating on Serie A, Champions League and UEFA Cup football. He is also now a regular guest on soccer radio show and podcast World Soccer Daily. Dolan is parodied, to some acclaim, by Apres Match. On 7 December 2009, in his weekly Star column, Dolan was fiercely critical of the Irish international team's pursuit of players born outside Ireland.

Wexford Youths 
In 2007 Dolan took on the role as Head Coach of the newly formed League of Ireland First Division outfit, Wexford Youths. Dolan assisted manager and owner Mick Wallace on a part-time basis due to his media commitments.

Search for new Ireland manager, and appointment of Trapattoni 
Through his weekly column in the Irish Daily Star and regular appearances on Setanta Sports, Dolan was fiercely critical of the FAI's recruitment process to find a new senior International team manager.

The holder of a FA coaching badge, he is currently a FIFA-registered players' agent.

Honours

As a manager
St Patrick's Athletic
 League of Ireland Premier Division: 1997–98, 2001–02
 FAI Super Cup: 1999–2000
 Leinster Senior Cup: 1999–2000
 League of Ireland Cup: 2000–01

As a Director of Football
St Patrick's Athletic
 League of Ireland Premier Division: 1995–96, 1998–99

Individual
 SWAI Personality of the Year: 1997–98

Sources 
 The Hoops by Paul Doolan and Robert Goggins ()

References 

1967 births
Living people
Association footballers from County Galway
Men's association football midfielders
Irish association football commentators
Irish columnists
Republic of Ireland men's youth international footballers
Republic of Ireland men's under-21 international footballers
Republic of Ireland men's association footballers
League of Ireland managers
League of Ireland players
Cork City F.C. managers
Shamrock Rovers F.C. players
St Patrick's Athletic F.C. managers
St Patrick's Athletic F.C. players
Arsenal F.C. players
Walsall F.C. players
Hendon F.C. players
Galway United F.C. (1937–2011) players
English Football League players
Association football agents
Republic of Ireland association football managers
Broadcasters from County Galway