[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Parliamentary Ombudsman

ly neutral.

The most extreme recourse allows an ombudsman to act as a special prosecutor and bring charges against the official for malfeasance or some other irregularity. This very rarely happens, but the mere awareness of this possibility means a great deal for the ombudsmen's authority.

History

The office of the parliamentary ombudsman was established in connection with the adoption of the Swedish Instrument of Government that came into effect after the deposition of the Swedish king in 1809 and which was based to some extent on Montesquieu's ideas about the division of powers. With the autocratic rule of King Gustav III fresh in mind, the legislators introduced into the new constitution a system that would allow the Riksdag some control over the exercise of executive power. The Standing Committee on the Constitution was therefore charged with the task of supervising the actions of ministers and with ensuring the election of a special parliamentary ombudsman to monitor the compliance of public authorities with the law. The Riksdag Act of 1810 contained provisions concerning the auditors elected by the Riksdag to scrutinise the doings of the civil service, the Bank of Sweden and the National Debt Office. The regulations in Chapter 12 of the Instrument of Government of 1974 later incorporated these three supervisory Riksdag agencies (i.e. the parliamentary ombudsmen, the Standing Committee on the Constitution and the parliamentary auditors) into the current system of parliamentary government.

The idea of creating some organ answerable to the Riksdag that could monitor the way in which the authorities complied with the law was not a new one in 1809. In fact, in 1713 the absolute monarch Charles XII had created the office of His Majesty's Supreme Ombudsman. At that time King Charles XII was in Turkey and had been abroad for almost 13 years. In his absence his administration in Sweden had fallen into disarray. He therefore established the supreme ombudsman to be his pre-eminent representative in Sweden. The task entrusted to him was to ensure that judges and public official in general acted in accordance with the laws in force and discharged their duties satisfactorily in other respects. If the ombudsman found that this was not the case, he was empowered to initiate legal proceedings against them for dereliction of their duties. In 1719 the supreme ombudsman was given the title of chancellor of justice (). This office still exists, and today the Chancellor of Justice acts as the government's Ombudsman. After the death of Charles XII in 1718 Sweden enjoyed decades of what was more or less parliamentary rule (the Age of Liberty). In 1766 the Riksdag actually for the first time elected the chancellor of justice. In the 1772 Instrument of Government, however, the right to appoint the chancellor of justice again became a royal prerogative. After a period of renewed autocratic rule under Gustaf III and his son, Gustaf Adolf IV, the latter was deposed in 1809.

According to the 1809 Instrument of Government, power was to be divided between the king and the Riksdag. The king was to appoint the chancellor of justice (in other words, he was the royal ombudsman) and the Riksdag was to appoint its own parliamentary ombudsman. The main purpose of the establishment of this new post as ombudsman (parliamentary ombudsman) was to safeguard the rights of citizens by establishing a supervisory agency that was completely independent of the executive. However, it seemed quite natural to model this new office on that of the chancellor of justice. Like the chancellor of justice, therefore, the ombudsman was to be a prosecutor whose task was to supervise the application of the laws by judges and civil servants. In the words of the 1809 Instrument of Government, the Riksdag was to appoint a man "known for his knowledge of the law and exemplary probity" as parliamentary ombudsman. In other words, his duties were to focus on protection of the rights of citizens. For instance the parliamentary ombudsman was to encourage uniform application of the law and indicate legislative obscurities. His work was to take the form of inspections and inquiries into complaints. Complaints played a relatively insignificant role to begin with. During the first century of the existence of the office, the total number of complaints amounted to around 8,000.