[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ping pong show

aw.

In Europe
In the red light district of De Wallen in Amsterdam the Moulin Rouge and Casa Rosso theatres feature on-stage sex shows including variations on the ping pong show. The acts performed include writing with a pen held inside the vagina and pulling long pieces of string out of the vagina.

Human rights concerns
The ping pong show is designed to get people talking about it so that people will come to the bar to see it. Often customers come only to see the show and leave when it is over. This is good business for the bar, which makes much of its profits from drinks. However, the majority of the bar workers do not participate in the show. Research published in 2002 indicated that most bar workers regard the show as bad for business and do not like it. Many bar workers consider the show to be low-class and in bad taste, boring as it is the same every night, and liable to take attention away from the bar workers by focussing on the acts. 

An article in 2009 described an example of the working conditions of women at ping pong shows. The employees arrived at 18:00 and left at daybreak. They stamped a time card and were penalized 5 baht (US$0.14) for every minute they were late. Each month, they received two nights of leave and, if they did not miss any additional nights, they earned a salary of 6,000 baht (US$181), supplemented by tips. In 2015 the average monthly income in Thailand was $489, according to the International Labour Organization.

Some human rights organizations (such as Not For Sale) have denounced ping pong shows as inherently misogynistic. Taina Bien-Aimé of Equality Now commented that: "The attitude that [sex work in places like ping pong shows] is empowering gives a green light to traffickers. We're trying to fight the commercial sex trade, not empower the sex trade." Some of the performers in ping pong shows in Thailand come from poorer neighbouring countries such as Myanmar, Cambodia, or Laos. The closure of factories in Thailand during the Great Recession in the late 2000s led to an increase in unemployment in the country. Some women formerly engaged in factory work moved to Thailand's red-light districts and ended up working in ping pong shows. Bien-Aime commented: "Working 14 hours [a day] in a factory or blowing ping pong balls out of your vagina should not be a person's only choices in life." Although no pain or suffering is generally experienced by female performers during the show, there have been rare accidents in which performers have been seriously and irreparably injured. The inclusion of a ping pong show scene in the film The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert led to the film being criticised on the grounds of sexism and racism.

See also
 Donkey show
 Prostitution in Laos

References

Further reading
 Leon, Harmon. "Life is Like a Ping-Pong Ball in a Bangkok Strip Club". nthWORD, Issue 2 (Spring/Summer 2009), pp. 29–36, archived at the Wayback Machine, 25 Sep 2009.
 
 
 

Sex industry
Strip clubs
Sex industry in Thailand