[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fall (Clay Walker album)

an I have released in the recent past. It reminds me more of the first album I released." He also said, ""I really feel like this is going to launch the next part of our career. I'd like to just stay on the charts over the next five years or so. Maybe get some Awards and nominations and do some TV."

Promotion
On April 2, 2007 Walker performed the national anthem as well as "God Bless America" at the Houston Astros opening day game. Walker stated "I love Houston, it's home and I'm proud to be an Astros fan. This is my first opening day and I am ecstatic to perform in front of my favorite fans!"

Walker also appeared on Last Call with Carson Daly and The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson to promote the album.

Track listing

Critical reception

The website Music Review Zone gave the album 3-and-a-half stars writing "This is pure country charm all wrapped up in a CD. You won’t be disappointed." Jeffrey B. Remz of Country Standard Time gave the album a mixed review writing "Walker certainly did not make a great album here, but he demonstrated he shouldn't be waiting so long until the next time either." Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic called it "his most enjoyable collection in some time." Josh Love of Stylus Magazine wrote, "Fall is particularly heavy on heartfelt, optimistic love songs, which normally might send up all sorts of red flags considering how often treacle gets mistaken for romance in country. Fortunately, Walker’s sincere devotionals possess a simplicity and underplayed grace that so many of his maudlin contemporaries lack."

The Associated Press wrote, "Fall improves his batting average and should continue to extend, and maybe even expand, his long-running popularity." Brady Vercher of Engine 145 gave the album three stars and wrote, "Fall, is a decent quality album with Clay Walker’s unique stamp all over it." About.com gave the album a positive review and wrote, the album "is solid from start to finish" and also said it is a, "great twelve-song collection from one of Country Music's finest talents." Editors at The Irish Times gave the album three stars and wrote, "All in all, Walker champions the average (there's even a song called Average Joe) in an average, unchallenging way." Nathalie Baret of the Albuquerque Journal gave the album three stars and wrote, "It offers up many hearty ballads that have a gentleman's "aw, shucks" clean country appeal as well as personal depth."

Editors at Country Weekly gave the album three stars and wrote, "Fall is a retreat to safer territory, a set of solid but unexceptional songs distinguished only by being well sung. When challenged with better material, Clay rises to the occasion."

Personnel
Adapted from liner notes.

Musicians
Eddie Bayers - drums (track 8)
Eric Darken - percussion (track 6)
Stuart Duncan - fiddle (tracks 3, 7, 8, 11 & 12), mandolin (tracks 1, 10 - 12)
Larry Franklin - fiddle (tracks 2, 5, 6)
Paul Franklin - steel guitar (all tracks)
Freddy Fender - duet vocals (track 10)
Steve Gibson - acoustic guitar (all tracks)
Rob Hajacos - fiddle (tracks 4 & 9)
Shane Keister - B3 organ (tracks 2, 6), keyboards (tracks 4 & 6)
Jeff King - electric guitar (tracks 1, 2, 4 - 6 & 9)
Brent Mason - acoustic guitar (track 10), electric guitar (tracks 3, 7, 8, 11 & 12)
Gordon Mote - piano (tracks 1, 7, 10 -12)
The Nashville String Machine - strings (tracks 5, 9 & 11)
Dave Pomeroy - bass guitar (tracks 1, 11 & 12)
Gary Prim - piano (tracks 2 - 5 & 9), keyboards (tracks 2 - 5 & 9), B3 organ (track 7)
Hargus "Pig" Robbins - piano (track 8)
Clay Walker - lead vocals (all tracks)
Kris Wilkinson - string arrangements (tracks 5, 9 & 11)
John Willis - acoustic guitar (track 8)
Lonnie Wilson - drums (all tracks except 8)
Glenn Worf - bass guitar (all tracks except 1, 11 & 12)

Background Vocalists
Melodie Crittenden - tracks 4, 7, 9 &12
John Wesley Ryles - tracks 1 - 9 & 12

Production
Tracks 1 - 11 Produced by: Keith Stegall
Track 12 Produced by: Jimmy Ritchey
Recorded and Mixed by: John Kelton
Assistant Engineer: Matt Rovey
Mastered By: Hank Williams at MasterMix, Nashville, TN
Production Coordinator: Jason Campbell
A&R Coordinator: John Ozier
Graphic Design: Lee Wright Creative

Chart performance
During the album's debut week, it sold approximately 32,000 units which was a record for Walker.

Weekly charts

End of year charts

References

2007 albums
Asylum-Curb Records albums
Clay Walker albums
Albums produced by Keith Stegall