[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Protestation at Speyer

t was brought to the Holy Roman Emperor by an embassy. Since this Diet in Speyer the adherents of the reform movement became known as "Protestants", and thus the protestation of the Princes and Free Cities has been seen as the birth of Protestantism.

 The decision of the Reichstag was protested by 

Elector John the Steadfast of Saxony 
Gregor Brück (Pontanus), Chancellor of Elector John
Philipp Melanchthon, companion of Elector John 
Simon Grynaeus, companion of Philipp Melanchthon
Johann Agricola, chaplain of Elector John
Landgrave Phillip of Hesse
Erhard Schnepf, chaplain of Philip of Hesse
Margrave George of Brandenburg-Anhalt
Duke Ernst of Braunschweig-Lüneburg
Duke Franz of Braunschweig-Lüneburg
Johann Förster, Chancellor of Dukes Franz and Ernst of Braunschweig-Lüneburg
Prince Wolfgang of Anhalt
Count William of Fürstenberg
Bürgermeister Christoph Tetzel, representative of Nürnberg
Bürgermeister Christoph Kreß, representative of Nürnberg
Bürgermeister Bernhard B(P)aumgärtner, representative of Nürnberg
Councillor Jakob Sturm, representative of Straßburg
Guildmaster Matthias, clergyman, representative of Straßburg
Bürgermeister Bernhard Besserer, representative of Ulm
Bürgermeister Sebastian Hagelstein, representative of Windsheim
Bürgermeister Josef Weiß, representative of Reutlingen

 The decision of the Reichstag was voted for by 

Holy Roman Emperor Charles V, 
Ferdinand, imperial commissioner and representative of Charles V
Grand Chancellor Bernhard Cles, Bishop of Trent, imperial commissioner
Freiherr Georg Truchsess von Waldburg, vice-regent of King Ferdinand
Dr. Johann Faber, canon of Konstanz and Basel
Probst Balthasar von Waldkirch, imperial commissioner
Frederick II, Elector Palatine, imperial commissioner
William IV, Duke of Bavaria, imperial commissioner
Leonhard von Eck, chancellor of Duke Wilhelm IV. of Bavaria
Louis X, Duke of Bavaria
Eric I, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, imperial commissioner

See also
Approximate original German of the Protestation of 19 April on p. 50 of the edition ed. J. Ney; original German of the Appellation of 25 April on p. 27 of the edition ed. J. Ney.  "Approximate original," I say, because according to Ney, “The protesting princes retained apparently no copy of the Protestation written down in a hurry and handed over to the Reichstag.  For this reason , only the ‘approximate’ content of the Protestation handed over on the 19 April could be included in the Instrument of Appellation" (Ney, p. 50, note 1; cf. Ney, pp. 12 ff.).  According to Eike Wolgast's entry in the Oxford encyclopedia of the Reformation'' ("Speyer, Protestation of"), "On 12 April 1529 the evangelical rulers submitted a written declaration to the diet that constituted an early draft of the subsequent protestation. . . . On 19 April . . . the first protestation followed.  It was rejected.  Accordingly, the evangelical estates presented a second protestation on 20 April which repeated the previous day's arguments in greater detail. . . . The protestation received legal status through the appeal that the Protestant princes and imperial cities lodged before two notaries in Speyer on 25 April 1529.  This appeal contained a report on the proceedings between majority and minority and all important documents.  The text was immediately disseminted in print," etc. (vol. 4, p. 104).
 An English translation of the Protestation.
Speyer Memorial Church, consecrated in 1904 in honor of the Protestation.

References

Speyer 
1529 in Christianity
1529 in politics
1529 in the Holy Roman Empire
History of Rhineland-Palatinate
Reformation in Germany