[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aleksey Suvorin

y of influencing the younger generation with his conservative and increasingly reactionary pronouncements in the vein of Mikhail Katkov and Konstantin Pobedonostsev. Novoye Vremya enthusiastically supported the policies of anti-Semitism and russification promoted by the government of Alexander III. 

In his book on the Russian Revolution of 1905, one of the former leaders of that revolution, Leon Trotsky, described Suvorin's hatred for even the very idea of revolution, which Suvorin portrayed in a bizarrely twisted misogynistic way: "'Revolution,' old Suvorin, that arch-reptile of the Russian bureaucracy, wrote at the end of November [1905], 'gives an extraordinary elan to men and gains a multitude of devoted, fanatical adherents who are prepared to sacrifice their lives.  The struggle against revolution is so difficult precisely because it has so much fervor, courage, sincere eloquence, and ardent enthusiasm to contend with.  The stronger the enemy, the more resolute and courageous revolution becomes, and with every victory it attracts a swarm of admirers.  Anyone who does not know this, who does not know that revolution is attractive like a young, passionate woman with arms flung wide, showering avid kisses on you with hot, feverish lips, has never been young.'"

During Suvorin's declining years, Vasily Rozanov and several other popular journalists of his newspaper were allowed considerable discretion in airing their idiosyncratic views. They pioneered a new style of adversary journalism, which frequently bordered on personal attacks.

Suvorin's intense dislike of reform and reformers was deeply entrenched: back in 1873, his first wife had been shot dead by her lover, a liberal officer who proceeded to commit suicide. Another influence was Fyodor Dostoyevsky, with whom he was on close terms, especially during the last year of the novelist's life. Suvorin was succeeded at the helm of the family business by one of his sons. His grave is in the Alexander Nevsky Lavra.

Suvorin Theatre 

Ever since the 1860s, Suvorin had been interested in theatre and regularly published theatrical criticism. He befriended Anton Chekhov, when the latter was an aspiring journalist and became one of his few intimates. Their extensive correspondence is captivating reading. It illustrates the evolution of Chekhov's views on all aspects of Russia's life over the years. It has been noted that Chekhov was so blinded by his affection towards Suvorin that he wrote a one-act sequel to his anti-Semitic play. 

By the second half of the 1890s, when Chekhov finally distanced himself from Suvorin, the latter had plunged headlong into theatre. With secure financial backing, he launched his own stage company in 1895. His powerful connections allowed him to get the censorship lifted on Leo Tolstoy's The Power of Darkness, which was premiered at his theatre. Before long, Suvorin's predilection for controversial pieces made his theatre unpopular with liberal elites. At the opening night of The Sons of Israel (1900), "the actors were pelted with apples, galoshes, and other missiles".

The reputation of Suvorin's theatre was so negative that after completing The Cherry Orchard, Chekhov wrote to his wife that he would not give the play to Suvorin even if he offered him 100,000 rubles and that he despised Suvorin's establishment. Despite the negative publicity, the company survived its founder and continued to operate profitably until the October Revolution, under the name Maly Imperial Theatre (Малый Императорский Театр). In retrospect, it appears to have been "the most important private theatre in St. Petersburg".

Since 1920, the building of the theatre, at 65 Fontanka Embankment, became the home of Bolshoi Drama Theatre (now known as Tovstonogov Drama Theatre).

References

Sources 
Динерштейн Е.А. А.С. Суворин: Человек, сделавший карьеру. . Moscow, 1998.
Ambler, Effie. The Career of Aleksei S. Suvorin, Russian Journalism and Politics, 1861–1881. Wayne State University Press, 1972.
Encyclopaedia of St. Petersburg

1834 births
1912 deaths
People from Bobrovsky District
People from Bobrovsky Uyezd
Members of the Russian Assembly
Journalists from the Russian Empire
19th-century newspaper publishers (people)
Newspaper publishers (people) from the Russian Empire
Book publishers (people) from the Russian Empire
Burials at Nikolskoe Cemetery