[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Jack Davis (industrialist)

is position on the Second Amendment rights is similar to that of other members of the Tea Party movement. He has given inconsistent answers on the issue of abortion rights. Davis opposes the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and also opposed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.

Campaign
The special election was initially thought to be a "certain victory" for the Republican candidate, but became "fiercely competitive", according to The New York Times, because of a U.S. House Republican plan to privatize Medicare. The Times also cited the third party candidacy of Davis as a factor which is "siphoning support" from Corwin.

A late April poll by Sienna College had Corwin in the lead with 36 percent, followed by Hochul with 31 percent and Davis with 23 percent of the vote. An early May poll by the Democratic-leaning Public Policy Institute showed Hochul at 35 percent, Corwin at 31 percent and Davis at 24 percent. An unusual number of voters had a negative opinion of each candidate, according to the pollster: Hochul, 42 percent for Corwin and 43 percent for Davis.

National media attention was given to a 15-second video clip that appeared to show Corwin's Assembly chief of staff, Michael Mallia, repeatedly asking Davis why he had skipped a campaign debate, followed by Mallia yelping as Davis apparently shoved him or flapped at the camera. The video clip was circulated by local and national Republican organizations and prompted bipartisan criticism of both Davis and Mallia. Requests to see a longer tape and a tape made by second camera were refused by Corwin and her campaign. In response to Davis' complaints that he had been harassed, Corwin said, "I've had cameras on me for two months now, and I've never hit anybody ... and I think that's the difference is how you handle a situation like that."

The Tea Party Express and TEA New York which endorsed Corwin traveled to Rochester and Buffalo to hold events where they criticized Davis' use of the Tea Party name. After the election, TEA New York blamed Davis for Hochul's win.

Roll Call reported that Davis had promised to spend as much as $3 million of his own funds and that Corwin had invested nearly $2.5 million of her own funds in the campaign as of May 13. Roll Call also said that outside funds coming from both liberal and conservative groups had "turned the Buffalo and Rochester airwaves into a steady stream of campaign ads." Davis, in contrast to his opponents, received no assistance from outside funds.

Electoral history

See also
 List of political parties in New York
 Radical center

References

External links
 Buffalo Business Journal editorial discussing Davis' activism.
 Davis' official campaign website
 I Squared R Element Company official business site
 

1933 births
American manufacturing businesspeople
American political candidates
2023 deaths
People from Erie County, New York
University at Buffalo alumni
Tea Party movement activists
New York (state) Republicans
New York (state) Democrats
Businesspeople from Pittsburgh
Businesspeople from New York (state)
People from Amherst, New York
Activists from New York (state)
Amherst Central High School Alumni