[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Arne Slot

Arend Martijn Slot (; born 17 September 1978) is a Dutch professional football coach and former player who is the manager of Feyenoord. He was previously manager of AZ Alkmaar. In his current role, he led Feyenoord to the 2022 UEFA Europa Conference League final and the 2022-23 Eredivisie title.

Playing career
Slot played as an attacking midfielder for PEC Zwolle, NAC Breda, and Sparta Rotterdam. According to teammate Edwin de Graaf, he was "not so fast".

Coaching career
After retiring from playing in 2013 at PEC Zwolle, Slot moved onto the club's staff, working as a youth coach for a year, before being appointed as an assistant coach at Cambuur.

AZ 
In 2017, Slot left Cambuur to join AZ Alkmaar, working as an assistant to John van den Brom. He succeeded Van den Brom as head coach in 2019. In his first season in charge, the Eredivisie was cancelled midway due to the COVID-19 pandemic. AZ finished second behind Ajax on goal difference, although no title was awarded for the season. 

On 5 December 2020 he was sacked as head coach of AZ for not being focused on the team, having recently negotiated a deal with Feyenoord. In his time at AZ, Slot earned 2.11 points per game in the Eredivisie, the highest of any coach in the club's history.

Feyenoord 
On 15 December 2020, Feyenoord announced that the club had reached a deal with Slot for him to become the club's new coach from the start of the 2021–22 season. The deal would see Slot sign for two years, with Feyenoord having the option to extend his contract for a third year. Slot succeeded the experienced Dick Advocaat, who led the team to a fifth place in the Eredivisie and qualification to the UEFA Conference League Qualifiers. Slot was appointed to build a new team with a recognisable playing style. Marino Pusic (first assistant coach) and Robin van Persie (field coach) were added to his staff, while John de Wolf was retained as second assistant coach. 

During Slot's first season, Feyenoord finished third in the Eredivisie, behind Ajax and PSV. The club also reached the final of the inaugral Europa Conference League, their first European final since 2002. Slot was awarded the Rinus Michels Award for the Eredivisie Manager of the Year.

In Slot's second season as coach, Feyenoord won the league, the club's first league title since 2017 and sixteenth in the club's history. In May 2023, Slot was heavily linked with the vacant managers job at Tottenham Hotspur. By the end of the month, Slot announced he would be remaining with Feyenoord and extended his contract to mid-2026.

Managerial statistics

Honours

Player
Zwolle
Eerste Divisie: 2001–02, 2011–12

Manager
Feyenoord
Eredivisie: 2022–23
 UEFA Europa Conference League runner-up: 2021–22

Individual
 Rinus Michels Award: 2021–22, 2022–23

References

External links
Arne Slot at Sparta Rotterdam
Arne Slot at Voetbal International 

1978 births
Living people
People from Hardenberg
Men's association football midfielders
Dutch men's footballers
PEC Zwolle players
NAC Breda players
Sparta Rotterdam players
Eredivisie players
Eerste Divisie players
Dutch football managers
Association football coaches
PEC Zwolle non-playing staff
AZ Alkmaar non-playing staff
AZ Alkmaar managers
Feyenoord managers
Eredivisie managers
Footballers from Overijssel