[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alan Friedman

narrator through the research phase for his book. It first appeared on Netflix and shows interview footage with Berlusconi at his estate in Arcore. Friedman lets Berlusconi chronologically tell his life story but confronts him with allegations and leads interviews with investigators and companions.

In February 2017, Friedman published a book called This Is Not America (Biteback Publishing in United Kingdom and Newton Compton in Italy) that was critical of Donald Trump and examined the divisions in American society. The book was a bestseller in Italy for several months in 2017. In January 2018, he published a new book on the Italian economy (Newton Compton Editori), entitled Dieci cose da sapere sull’economia italiana prima che sia troppo tardi, or Ten Things To Know About The Italian Economy Before It Is Too Late, in English, which was a top ten best-seller in Italy for 17 weeks. In March 2018, Friedman gave his first TedxTalk at Oxford University to an audience of 1,800 people. In his talk, he criticized Trump for damaging the social fabric of the United States, sowing hatred and division, and leading a populist wave of demagogy that threatened America's traditions of strength through cultural diversity. Friedman also warned that Trump was attacking several pillars of American democracy with his repeated attacks on law enforcement, the Justice Department, the rule of law, the free press, and the rights of women, gays, and minorities.

A columnist for the Italian newspaper La Stampa, Friedman frequently makes appearances as an economic and political commentator in the broadcast media. In April 2022, he published a new book with La nave di Teseo, a leading Italian publisher. The book, entitled Il prezzo del futuro, is an analysis of the future of the Italian economy. In April 2022, Friedman published an exclusive interview with United States Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen in which she questioned the wisdom of the Maastricht Treaty deficit and debt rules. 

In 2023, Friedman co-wrote (with Giuseppe Pedersoli) and produced the documentary “MILANO: The Inside Story of Italian Fashion” featuring protagonists of the Italian Fashion history such as Giorgio Armani, Dolce and Gabbana, Tom Ford, Domenico De Sole, Santo Versace, Pierpaolo Piccioli and may others. The film also featured interviews with top Hollywood stars such as Lauren Hutton, Sharon Stone, Frances McDormand, Helen Mirren, and Samuel L. Jackson. The film “MILANO: The inside story of Italian Fashion” is directed by the Emmy Award winner John Maggio.

MILANO was described by The New York Times as “Half nostalgia trip and half corrective to the narratives disseminated by docudramas like Ridley Scott’s “House of Gucci” and Ryan Murphy’s “Assassination of Gianni Versace.”

Controversy 
From 2011 to 2013, with liaison to Viktor Yanukovych's chief of staff Serhiy Lyovochkin, Friedman, one-time CNN producer Eckart Sager, Rick Gates, Paul Manafort, and Manafort's senior aide Konstantin Kilimnik devised a strategy to discredit Yulia Tymoshenko and Hillary Clinton. This effort supported the pro-Russia administration of then president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych.

In a June 2018 article, The New York Times named Friedman as a former associate of Manafort who had contacted Special Counsel Robert Mueller to inform the counsel of Manafort's attempt at witness tampering. The article described how Friedman had helped to arrange and gave advice on writing op-eds that favored Yanukovych at the behest of Manafort and that Friedman "helped lead a project to which prosecutors say Mr. Manafort funneled more than $2 million." In September 2018, Manafort pleaded guilty to witness tampering for his efforts to coach Friedman and Sager on what to say about their work for him and Yanukovych. In Manafort's statement of the offense, Friedman is identified as "Person D1".

In January 2021, during the commentary of Donald Trump's greeting speech when he left the White House by Italian RAI 1, Friedman insulted the first lady Melania Trump by naming her an escort. Friedman was punished because the television's chiefs decided to ban him.