[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

This is a list of fictional characters from the Japanese anime television series, Mobile Suit Gundam 00, the eleventh incarnation of the Gundam media franchise.

Celestial Being

Gundam Meisters 
The series focuses on the four mobile suit pilots of the paramilitary organization Celestial Being. The pilots, referred to as , pursue the complete eradication of armed conflict mainly through the deployment of the revolutionary Gundam units in aggressive armed interventions.

 
 Setsuna F. Seiei is the primary protagonist of the series and was discovered by Celestial Being at the age of 16 for having special potential as a pilot. He is currently a Gundam Meister and pilots Gundam Exia, specialized in melee combat. Setsuna's real name is  ( Suran Ibrahim); with Setsuna F. Seiei being his codename. He was once a child soldier of Kurdish descent in the war-torn Krugis Republic. During this time, he murdered his own parents under Ali Al-Saachez's influence in order to prove his devotion to God, and hence bears a deep hatred towards Saachez. Due to his previous religious brainwashing (and awakening from it), Setsuna claims he no longer believes in God, yet still debates the role of God in people's lives, suggesting that he would like to believe in God. After going into hiding at the end of the first season, Setsuna reappears four years later and rejoins Celestial Being as the pilot of 00 Gundam during his fight with the Innovators and then 00 QAN[T] during his battle with the ELS. Disappearing at the end of the fight, Setsuna F. Seiei reappears decades later. Throughout the series he had a connection with Marina Ismail, though whether or not the connection was romantic was never truly explored, as it seems (from certain flashbacks) that Marina reminds him of his beloved mother whom he had to kill to join All Al-Saachez's guerrilla when he was a child. Both deny romantic feelings when asked, nevertheless Marina is one of the most important people for Setsuna. Feldt Grace openly displayed romantic feelings for him in the movie. His last appearance is shown 50 years later after his departure paying a visit to a now elderly Marina Ismail who is almost blind, she burst into tears as soon as she hears his voice; Setsuna is shown to have become a Human-ELS hybrid and he seems to have not aged since he left. He is a Muslim.  

  

 Neil Dylandy is the first Lockon Stratos who decided to join Celestial Being because his parents and younger sister were killed in a terrorist bombing. As the eldest pilot, he is considered the pilots' team leader, and sports a more easy-going, flamboyant personality as compared to the other Gundam Meisters. He owns an orange Haro to help pilot the Gundam Dynames and has a personal feud with Ali Al-Saachez, who plotted the terrorist bombing that caused the death of his family. He acts as the leader of the team, turning himself in the closest friend-alike to both Setsuna and Tieria, and lost his aiming eye shielding Tieria. Despite being injured he searched for revenge against Ali Al-Sacheez, he succeeds in shooting down Sacheez machine at the cost of his own life; his death is one of the biggest impacts to Setsuna and prompts him to "change" as Neil could not (which would develop into Setsuna become the very first true Innovator). After being killed at the climax of the first season, his younger twin brother Lyle Dylandy chooses to take up the title of Lockon Stratos and becomes the pilot of the Cherudim Gundam. 

 
 First seen in episode 9 of the first season, he was visiting the grave site of his family. Four years after the death of Neil Dylandy, Setsuna F Seiei recruits Neil's twin brother, Lyle, to become the new Lockon Stratos and pilot of the Cherudim Gundam and then Zabanya. He is shown to be easy-going like his brother, but continues to struggle with distinguishing himself from Neil. He becomes romantically interested in the Innovator Anew Returner until she is killed by Setsuna (as with all the Innovades designed for Ribbons Almark, Anew had a backdoor that allowed Ribbons to take over her mind, and would have killed Lyle). Originally a double agent from the anti-government organization Katharon, Lyle leaves Katharon and becomes a full-time member of Celestial Being at the end of the second season. During the events of the movie, Lyle pilots the Gundam Zabanya during the fight with the ELS. While Dynames and Cherudim both have a sniping scope trigger, Zabanya doesn't, as the first two were designed with Neil's  Sniping Style, while Lyle is more a "happy trigger" (despite the fact that his on-hit per shot ratio is incredibly high).