[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Campaign for Fiscal Equity

cation in 2010–11 by $7 billion; 2) foundation formula committed to distributing aid solely based on need; 3) new input/output accountability requirements; and 4) public participation requirements in developing, approving and enforcing the Contracts of Excellence (law's primary accountability tool).

Contract for Excellence (C4E)
The Education Act is enforced to offer resources and aid to the highest-need students in the lowest-performing schools.  The above-mentioned primary accountability tool, the Contract for Excellence, is an annual plan which provides school-by-school reporting.  It is completed and submitted by the low performing school districts that receive the increased funding from the state. The purpose of the contract is to target education strategies such as reduced class size, teacher/principal quality, full day pre-K, high school/middle school restructuring and model programs for English Language Learners.  The contracts were developed in 2007.  In the 2007–08 school year, 55 school districts ( list of school districts in New York ) in the state of New York completed and submitted Contracts for Excellence.  School improvements were seen as the numbers decreased to 38 districts in 2008–09 and 32 districts in 2009–10.

In June 2010, an Analysis of New York City's 2009–10 Approved Contract for Excellence Allocations was released.  The proposed funding and allocations approved by the State Education Department are compared.  The report shows the decrease in spending on the “Class Size Reduction” by 11% as compared to the proposed funding, causing 62 fewer schools to receive allocations for more classes and lower teacher:pupil ratios.  There was an increase in spending on “Time on Task” by 20%, giving these allocations to 82 additional schools.  A small decrease in spending was seen in the “Teacher and Principal Quality”, decreasing by 1.4%.  “Middle and High School Restructuring” also had a small decrease of 3% while “Full Day pre-K” had an 8% increase.  The final category “Model Programs for English Language Learners” saw a 2% increase in funding.  The sharp increase in funding under the “Time on Task” category gives funding for Summer School and dedicated instruction.  While the “Class Size Reduction” category experienced the sharpest decrease, it still receives the largest amount of funding.

CFE work since 2007
After 2007, CFE worked to secure full funding and implementation of the massive school finance and accountability reforms, to ensure transparency and adequate information to measure academic progress, and secure meaningful public participation in the development of education programs and policies.  The organization helped to develop the "Contract for Excellence," as well as other initiatives seeking to bring new funds and resources to the highest-needs students in the lowest-performing schools across New York State.

The New York State legislature passed a budget for the 2008–9 school year that fully funded the Education Act, promoted by the CFE year 2 budget.  An increase of $643 million was given to New York City schools during this year.  However, under the Contract for Excellence, schools were required to be in need of improvement for two years instead of the one previously required.  This limited the number of schools offered aid.  The 2009–10 school year maintained previous education spending levels, but saw no funding increase freezing the CFE.  However, the cuts proposed by the Executive Budget were not experienced by the public schools.  The New York State Legislature stated that the funding increase should resume again in the 2011–12 school year.

Controversies and aftermath of the lawsuit
Challenges arose after CFE won their 13-year lawsuit.  Following the issuance of the court decisions, the state committed to increasing funding for New York City and other high-need districts by over $7 billion per year, over a four-year phase-in period. The state largely complied for the first two years, but after the Great Recession of 2008, the state first froze further increases and then substantially cut education funding.