[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Local Government Act 2002

r public submissions to be sent into council. This submission can be heard in person if the submitter wishes, and full council listens and consults on all submissions in making a decision over the draft proposal. Once passed the document is no longer draft and the SCP requirement has been satisfied.

In consultation outside the SCP which happens with the community outcomes process, the principles of consultation remain the same as stated in the Act and are a major focus of all consultation with the community in local government under the Local Government Act 2002.

Community outcomes
Community outcomes—under section 91 of the Act—are statements that are derived from full consultation with stakeholders in the community and happen at least once every six years. Each District and Region has Community Outcomes that the community has decided upon. Community Outcomes are a requirement of the Local Government Act 2002.

By 31 July 2006 the Long Term Council Community Plans 2006 - 2016 will be in the Parliamentary Library for 86 Territorial Authorities. The Community Outcomes will be printed in this document for each area. It was optional until 2006 and now Community Outcomes are a must. Eleven LTA did not comply with pre-Audit requirements and whether they will make the deadline is not yet known. Three others will not have sign off by full Council by 30 June 2006 and this will have spending implications for the councils until sign off does happen.

Measures and indicators
Section 92 of the Local Government Act 2002 requires measures and indicators, not less than once every 3 years, on the progress of the community towards the Community Outcomes is reported. Debate around whether it is from a regional perspective or from the location of the community outcome area perspective will take a number of years and three yearly cycles to resolve.

It is suggested that the Minister's intent at the time of drafting the Act was clearly for it to be locally focused. A local focus to support the people who develop the community outcomes to self determine what is best for the area in which they live and work.

The name of this document or report is the State of the District Report (SOD). Base line reports are being made by some council's before to measure progress by. An example of a good local authority base line SOD is the South Waikato District Council State of the District Report.

Long Term Plan (LTP) 
The Local Government Act 2002 required that an initial ten-year Long-Term Plan (LTP) for the period 2004-2014 be prepared by all the Local and Regional Councils of New Zealand.

Next in the LGA was a consultation process to identity the Community Outcomes of the District. The Community Outcomes did not belong to Council but were a Community's District Outcomes. The LGA stated that a subsequent LTP for the period 2006-2016 was required to have the District's Community Outcomes included at this time. The Community Outcome progress is reported at least every three years and at least once every six years the full round of consultation to identify the Community Outcomes must happen. Each LTP is audited by the Auditor General every three years.
 
Prior to an amendment to the LGA in 2022, the Long-Term Plan (LTP) was known as a Long-Term Council Community Plan (LTCCP).

State of the district report 
Progress of the community in their Community Outcomes are to be reported at least once every three years with the first deadline having been 2009. The report of this community progress can be known as the State of the District report. Measures and indicators to this end are developed around measurement and reporting on progress to the community outcomes. A whole science is developing around where the attribution of outputs lies with regards to the outcomes being advanced. The question in the State of the District report is which part of the community's outputs contribute to the community outcomes and by how much if any.

Bylaws 
Bylaws are required to be consulted upon using the Special Consultative Procedure in the Local Government Act 2002. All bylaws must be consulted with by the community by 30 June 2008. No bylaws may be older than 10 years without needing to return to the community again for consultation.

Management 
The Act sought to distance the elected council members and mayor from the day to day operations and management of the local authority. It created a position, the Chief Executive, with this person being the only council appointee. The Chief Executive reports to the council and mayor, and in turn appoints all other council staff, who report to him/her, not directly to the council.

This was done so as to encourage the council members and mayor to focus on higher level issues of setting strategic direction and policy, while allowing a professional cadre of managers to then implement council policy.