[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Attaway

s."  However, Attaway admits "the humorous twist is a necessary part of any true Calypso song."  Each song not only has sheet music in Calypso Song Book, but it also has a brief narration, except two songs, right next to the title which is provided by Attaway and an illustration by William Charmatz.

Hear America Singing 
George P. Weick in Harlem Renaissance Lives points out that in 1967, Attaway published for children a compilation of representative popular music in America, including historical commentary, Hear America Singing. Harry Belafonte in the Hear America Singing introduction writes the folk singing is no longer a spectator sport—it is an essential part of growing up. Folk music is just exactly what it claims to be—the music of the people; not of individuals, but all the people.  Belafonte continues the term "folk" was originally applied only to the peasants and farmers of the Old World, who had never learned to read or write. The evolution of democracy slowly expanded the meaning of the world until it came to stand for all proud and common people.

In Chapter Four – We Were Always Growing, Attaway describes one of the songs—Always "Greensleeves"—as following.  The folk song, as rule, is always in the process of change.  But every rule has its exceptions.  This was the one folk song that survived all the centuries, practically untouched.  It had come down from Elizabethan England to present-day America without being rewritten.  Attaway further expresses although its subject matter was romantic love, it remained a favorite of both Pilgrims and Puritans.  The frontiersmen also learned this song, as nearly as they could, in its original form.  It was simply too beautiful to change.

Script writing 
According to Harlem Renaissance Lives, Attaway's sister, Ruth, helped him to enter the theater world and he also performed in several productions, including a 1939 traveling production of George S. Kaufman's You Can't Take it With You. (PP 23) One Hundred Years of Laughter, a television special on black humor,  was one of his most important scripts that was airing in 1966.  Attaway is also credited as the screenwriter for the 1981 race-relations TV movie Grambling's White Tiger, directed by [[Roots: The Saga of an American Family
|Roots]] actor Georg Stanford Brown.

Works

Literature 
 Carnival (1935)
 Let Me Breathe Thunder (1939)
 Blood on the Forge (1941)
 Calypso Song Book (1957)
 Hear America Singing (nonfiction) (1967)
 From These Hills, From These Valleys: Selected Fiction About Western Pennsylvania. (Some of Attaways works were featured in the collection despite not being the main and only author)

Style and themes

Racial and ecological crisis 
William Attaway often kept the main themes of his writing about racial and ecological crisis, especially in his novel Blood on the Forge. In Blood on the Forge, Attaway depicts the hardship of the black community during The Great Migration, which Attaway experienced firsthand when his family moved to Chicago, Illinois, in 1916. Blood on the Forge uses the lives of three brothers to describe the battle that the African-American community went through in order to achieve acceptance and equality. His vivid portrayal of The Great Migration gives the reader an honest insight into the struggles of the African-American community as they moved out of the Southern United States fighting for a better life that they weren't necessarily guaranteed.

Death of the blues 
By focusing on the experiences of the Moss brothers in Blood on the Forge, Attaway effectively dramatizes the loss of the folk culture which accompanied the Great Migration of Black people from the rural South to the industrial North, in this case the steel mills of Pennsylvania, around the time of World War I.  Though an involved system of symbolic characterization and imagery, Attaway weaves an intricate examination of what might be called the death of the blues—at least the blues as representative of the folk culture.

Legacy 
Attaway's literary legacy rests primarily with his novel Blood on the Forge, which has been called the finest depiction of the Great Migration era in American literature.  Attaway retains an important place among African-American writers of the early 20th century; the reprinting of Blood on the Forge in 1993 has brought renewed critical and popular attention to his writing.

Papers
 Letters from Attaway, University of California at Berkeley
 Page proofs, Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture In NY, NY.

Notes

References 
 Applegate, Edd (2002). American Naturalistic and Realistic Novelists: A Biographical Dictionary, pp. 24–25. Greenwood Publishing Group. .