[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dax McCarty

l soccer team for the 2008 CONCACAF Men Pre-Olympic Tournament in March 2008. He played in every match for the U-23 squad and was named to the All Tournament Team with teammates Maurice Edu and Freddy Adu. He was also voted to the "2008 Best XI" as a midfielder by the CONCACAF Technical Study Group.

McCarty received his first international cap with the United States national team as a late substitute for Michael Bradley during the international friendly between Slovakia and the United States on November 14, 2009. He earned his second cap four days later in a match against Denmark. In 2010, McCarty played the last 13 minutes in a friendly against Honduras.

2011 looked to be the beginning of a more consistent McCarty role with the national team as he was called up by Coach Bob Bradley to participate in the January Camp and then led the team as captain in their match against Chile, which resulted in a draw.

After a long absence from the national team, McCarty was called into the January 2017 training camp by Bruce Arena.

Personal life
McCarty's middle name, and now nickname came from the main character in his father's favorite book; The Adventurers.
 He was listed as one of the top American soccer players to follow on Twitter because of his funny remarks, critiques of referees, and banter with rival fans. His French Bulldogs, Koji and Bali, also have their own Instagram page. In June 2016, McCarty appeared in a cartoon advertisement for Affinity Federal Credit Union, along with teammates, Luis Robles, Connor Lade and Felipe.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honors
FC Dallas
MLS Western Conference: 2010

New York Red Bulls
Supporters' Shield: 2013, 2015

United States
CONCACAF Gold Cup: 2017

Individual
MLS All-Star: 2015, 2017
MLS Best XI: 2015
MLS 400 games club

References

External links

 
 

1987 births
Living people
American men's soccer players
North Carolina Tar Heels men's soccer players
Ajax Orlando Prospects players
FC Dallas players
D.C. United players
New York Red Bulls players
Chicago Fire FC players
Nashville SC players
Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics
Olympic soccer players for the United States
Soccer players from Florida
USL League Two players
Major League Soccer players
Major League Soccer All-Stars
FC Dallas draft picks
United States men's under-20 international soccer players
United States men's under-23 international soccer players
United States men's international soccer players
Sportspeople from Winter Park, Florida
Winter Park High School alumni
Men's association football midfielders
2017 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
CONCACAF Gold Cup-winning players