[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Environmental issues in Vietnam

any was found to be responsible on June 30, 2016, and compensations were disbursed to affected parties accordingly.

Other environmental issues in Vietnam 
Over the course of the history of the environmental movement in Vietnam, different types of issues have come to the fore at one time or another:

 Conservation of Hang Sơn Đoòng cave: Similar to the preservation of Hanoi's Reunification Park mentioned earlier, the environmental movement in Vietnam has come out to oppose the proposed plans for building a cable car, at a cost of between $112 and $211 million, through the cave, located in Phong Nha-Kẻ Bàng National Park, and considered the world's largest cave (by volume).
 Air pollution: Due to increased vehicular transportation, industrial activities, solid fuel burning and poor urban planning, air pollution, especially when measured by the concentration of PM2.5 particles in the air, is becoming an environmental issue of significance in big cities such as Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, which are now among the top polluted cites in South East Asia. One possible way to address this environmental issue is through the development of renewable energy solutions such as solar and wind power which have the potential to reduce air pollution. Furthermore, citizens' demands for action on air pollution are an important factor in the government's choice to reduce emissions.
 Accessibility to clean water. Vietnamese citizens generally have high levels of freshwater accessibility, although there is some variability between larger and smaller cities, and between cities and rural areas. Tap water is a readily available water supply in large cities such as Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi. However, in rural areas, hand-dug wells remain the most important source of water as 39%-44% still rely on it. Only 10% of the rural population is supplied with piped water. Like air pollution, water pollution levels are also increasing due to increased industrial activity, especially in the Mekong Delta. In a region where most people depend on the surface water of the river, this environmental issue has had human health consequences, such as high rates of diarrhea. Overall in Vietnam, the number of reported diarrhea diseases was 296000 in total in 2009. Other examples of waterborne diseases in Vietnam include cholera, typhoid fever, dysentery, and hepatitis A. Reported cases of cholera is still significantly high. Caused by drinking water contaminated by bacterium, the number of reported cholera is well above 500, reaching 1900 in 2007, and 600 in 2010. However, the fatality rate of cholera has been close to 0% since 1999.
 Wetlands: Wetlands in Vietnam, along with their biodiversity, have decreased significantly. In the case of mangrove forest areas in the Mekong Delta, these have decreased by 80 per cent between 1943 and 2000. Key causes of wetland degradation include ad hoc dyke construction. To address this environmental issue, development planning ought to take into consideration the costs, benefits and impacts on wetlands. For example, revisions to water management governance have contributed to recent improvements in the wetland degradation situation.
 Forests: The integrity of Vietnam's forest landscape is relatively low; on the 2018 Forest Landscape Integrity Index, Vietnman ranked 104th globally out of 172 countries, with a mean score of 5.35/10.
 Environmental issues relating to free trade: Vietnam is committed to multilateral environmental agreements, including those on climate change and biodiversity, including the EU-Vietnam Free Trade Agreement and Investment Protection Agreement. To comply with these commitments, Vietnam would need strengthen regulations and enforcement on the illegal wildlife trade, as well as illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing practices, to enable Vietnam to fully reap the "benefits" from "free" trade.
 Pesticide misuse: The misuse of pesticides on a global scale has led to pesticide poisoning becoming a global health concern; based on the World Health Organization’s Mortality Database, approximately 385 million cases of unintentional, acute pesticide poisoning occur world-wide each year. Despite larger quantities of pesticides being sold in developed countries, pesticide-related poisonings occur more frequently in developing countries such as Vietnam. In the case of Vietnam, since the Doi Moi economic transformation in 1986, pesticide use has doubled in the 1990s– totaling over 40,000 tons in 1998. Despite this rapid increase in the use of pesticides, the regulatory aspects of pesticides have failed to keep pace with the growth of pesticide use: a survey conducted by the Vietnam’s Plant Protection Department in 2000 indicated that numerous pesticide retailers were operating without a business license or sold pesticides that failed to meet domestic safety requirements. The lack of regulation and enforcement regarding pesticide use has led to farmer carelessness, ultimately leading to a variety of publ