[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kingsley Fairbridge

ring World War I until the government provided a grant that tided the school over the war period.

At the 1917 state election in Western Australia, Fairbridge stood for the Country Party in the seat of Murray-Wellington. He was defeated by the sitting member, William George of the Nationalist Party.

In August 1919, Fairbridge went to England on the Ormonde and managed to raise a sum of £27,000 for the development of the school. The British Government's Overseas Settlement Committee provided £20,000 on condition that the Western Australian Government continued its grant of 6 shillings per week per child. A larger property of  of uncleared land was purchased north of Pinjarra and new buildings, including cottages to house the children, a dining hall, a house for his own family, and farm buildings, were erected. Assistance from the Australian Government was also provided.

Legacy
The school continued under a principal. At the time of his death, 200 children were at the school, and enrolment gradually reached a peak of 400.

After his death six other schools were established by the Child Emigration Society, including the Prince of Wales Fairbridge Farm School at Cowichan Station, near Duncan on Vancouver Island, Canada, in 1935, as well as schools in Australia at Bacchus Marsh, Victoria, Molong, New South Wales (1937), and Drapers Hall, in the Adelaide Hills, South Australia (1962–1981).

Towards the end of the Second World War, many Dutch children from Indonesia and Singapore moved to the Pinjarra school, after having been interned in Japanese prisoner-of-war camps.

By the 1970s, however, only the original school at Pinjarra survived, a result of reduced demand through improved economic and social conditions in Britain and changed laws that had reduced the flow of unaccompanied children. During World War II, a ship carrying child emigrants from England to Canada had been torpedoed with large loss of life, and this in part had caused the British Government to start bringing the practice to an end. The society then moved to provide Fairbridge Scholarships for British students to attend universities throughout the Commonwealth.

With the establishment of the University College of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (UCRN) in 1957, the Kingsley Fairbridge Trust set up a bursary fund to provide finance for suitably qualified students to attend the college. In 1958 three British students were awarded bursaries, and thereafter the number was increased to four per year. This continued until 1965 when Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) declared independence and the scheme terminated.

In 1981, the Pinjarra school closed. 1,195 children had come to Pinjarra and were housed and educated under the scheme between 1913 and 1981.

The "Kingsley Fairbridge Child Development Unit" was established in Adelaide at the Women's and Children's Hospital in 1981.

As well as his autobiography (published posthumously in 1927) and his anthology of poetry, Fairbridge wrote an unpublished novel called The Afrikander.

"Redress WA" was a scheme established in 2008 to financially compensate children abused in State care, and applications for ex-gratia payments under the scheme closed in 2010. Payments of more than $1.1 million were made to 205 child migrants who went to Fairbridge Farm School between 1930 and 1981.

The suburb of Fairbridge Park in Mutare is named after him.

Personal life 

Fairbridge's great-grandfather was a member of the Children's Friend Society in 1833. This organisation oversaw a scheme to bring children to South Africa.

In December 1911, Fairbridge married a former nurse, Ruby Ethel Whitmore, who had been encouraging and helping him for some time.

Fairbridge knew and greatly admired Cecil Rhodes, and named his eldest son Rhodes. Rhodes Fairbridge (1914–2006) was an eminent geologist and climate scientist.

Fairbridge suffered considerably from malaria, sciatica and lumbago and in the last few years of his life endured pain and general ill-health. He died at the age of 39 on 19 July 1924 in Perth, while recuperating from a minor operation related to a lymphatic tumour. He was buried at Pinjarra and survived by his wife Ruby (d. 1966) and their two sons and two daughters.

See also
 Margaret Humphreys

Notes and references

External links
A history of Fairbridge Farm and Kingsley Fairbridge
Website of the Child Migrants Trust
"Key milestones of the Child Migrants Trust", House of Commons

1885 births
1924 deaths
People from Makhanda, Eastern Cape
South African people of British descent
Alumni of Exeter College, Oxford
History of Western Australia
Education in Western Australia
Alumni of St. Andrew's College, Grahamstown
Deaths from cancer in Western Australia
South African Rhodes Scholars
National Party of Australia politicians
South African emigrants to Australia
South African emigrants to Rhodesia
Cape Colony people