[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Keren Cytter

rs in Berlin, Cytter relocated to New York City in 2012 where she initiated a quarterly publication focusing on art and poetry. Published by APE, it has so far featured Nora Schultz, John Kelsey and writings of Josef Strau, Matthew Dickman, Roman Baembaev, Roger van Voorhees and Sylvia Mae Gorelick.

Her 2013 solo exhibition at Pilar Corrias in London presented an ambitious new body of work called MOP (Museum of Photography) – a large archive of Polaroid photographs documenting her life as she travelled from Berlin and London, to the United States and Israel from 2012 to 2013. Taken with her 1200i and One step 600 Polaroid camera, the photographs are carefully categorised by geography and chronology and then arranged into sub-sections, titled A, B, C and D and so on, via their aesthetic. Images of friends, colleagues, curators she encountered, museums she worked in, landscapes she passed through, and her own performances are all featured. The collection consists of more than 800 polaroids.

In May 2019, Cytter had her first institutional solo presentation in Israel, titled “Sponsored Content.” The exhibition carries a deep autobiographical tone, although, as always in her work, this very tone is hinted and suggested, avoiding any direct references. For this exhibition, which is articulated in two galleries, the artist has conceived an immersive display that invites the viewer to have an unusual physical encounter with her work, generating a space for reflection, bringing up all the different life stages, from childhood to teenage, from adulthood to middle age, till old age.

Writing
In addition to her video and performance work, Cytter is the author of five novels: The Man Who Climbed Up the Stairs of Life and Found Out They Were Cinema Seats (Lukas and Sternberg, New York – Berlin, 2005); The Seven Most Exciting Hours of Mr. Trier’s Life in Twenty-four Chapters (Sternberg Press Berlin, 2008); The Amazing True Story of Moshe Klinberg – A Media Star (Onestar, Paris, 2009); White diaries (CCA Kitakyushu, Japan, 2011); and A-Z Life Coaching (Sternberg Press, Berlin 2016); in addition to three children’s books: The Curious Squirrel (Pork Salad Press, 2015), The Brutal Turtle, and The Furious Hamster (both Pork Salad Press / CEC Genève, 2018).

Quotes
"I studied art because I wanted to go to New York and wash dishes." (2010)

"Artists are like bees. Hard to catch, they have the tendency to die after doing something meaningful." (2012)

"Not for epileptic people." (On her performance Vociferous, 2013)

Awards
In 2006 Cytter won the Bâloise Prize at Art Basel, Switzerland. She also received the Ars Viva Prize 2008 in Berlin and was one of the four nominees for the 2008 Preis der Nationalgalerie für Junge Kunst, Berlin. In 2009 Cytter became the first recipient of the Absolut Art Award in Stockholm and was shortlisted for the Future Generation Art Prize in 2010. Cytter is the recipient of The Guggenheim Fellowship for Creative Arts, US & Canada (2021).

References

External links
Official Website

1977 births
Living people
Feminist artists
21st-century Israeli women artists
Jewish artists
Israeli novelists
English-language writers
Israeli expatriates in the Netherlands
Bâloise Prize winners
Israeli contemporary artists
Israeli experimental filmmakers
Israeli video artists
Women experimental filmmakers