[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# OneWest Bank

iff's sale. OneWest Bank said, "You expressed concern that … you and your mother will be evicted from the property. Rest assured, that will not take place …". Changing the locks was done without any court action, which bypasses acknowledged and mandated Due Process on home foreclosures in Minnesota.

OneWest Bank stopped originating reverse mortgages, which was before CIT acquired the bank. But, OneWest continued servicing its portfolio of reverse mortgages, and similar to regular mortgages, it was criticized by attorneys for a number of abusive foreclosure practices, such as the story of Ossie Lofton, a 90-year-old woman who OneWest tried to foreclose on over a 27 cents mistake. In May 2017, CIT agreed to pay $89 million in settlement claims related to its reverse mortgage program. According to the United States Department of Justice, "The United States alleged that Financial Freedom sought to obtain insurance payments for interest from FHA despite failing to disclose on the insurance claim properly forms it filed with the agency that the mortgagee was not eligible for such interest payments because it had failed to meet various deadlines relating to appraisal of the property, submission of claims to HUD, and pursuit of foreclosure proceedings. As a result, from March 31, 2011 to August 31, 2016, the mortgagees on the relevant reverse mortgage loans serviced by Financial Freedom allegedly obtained additional interest they were not entitled to receive."

In July 2014, OneWest Bank and CIT Group announced a merger. CIT Group had accepted $2.3 billion in TARP funding that it never repaid because it declared bankruptcy. Nonprofits throughout the state very quickly raised concerns about the merger, citing the damage caused by the approximately 36,000 foreclosures conducted by OneWest in California, the bank's weak record in small business lending, the bank's weak community reinvestment act record, and concerns about possible redlining by the bank. On February 2, 2015, Daily Kos and the California Reinvestment Coalition visited the San Francisco Federal Reserve and delivered more than 15,000 petitions signed by people who opposed the merger. A picture of those petitions being delivered was included in a book by Al Gore. Bank regulators announced on February 6, 2015, that they would hold a public hearing about the proposed merger.

On August 3, 2015, CIT Group acquired OneWest Bank, N.A.

On June 4, 2018, the company sold Financial Freedom, the unit responsible for servicing reverse mortgages. The transaction included selling mortgage servicing rights and $879 million of reverse mortgage whole loans and other real estate owned assets.

In January 2022, CIT was acquired by First Citizens BancShares.

References

External links
 

2009 establishments in California
2015 mergers and acquisitions
2022 disestablishments in California
American companies established in 2009
Banks based in California
Banks disestablished in 2022
Banks established in 2009
Companies based in Pasadena, California
Mortgage lenders of the United States