[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Ukraine–European Union relations

dymyr Zelenskyy requested immediate admission to the European Union under a special procedure. Eight EU states signed a letter supporting an accelerated accession process for Ukraine. On 1 March, Hungarian foreign minister Péter Szijjártó stated his country would also support an accelerated process.

On 1 March 2022, the European Parliament, following a debate in which the President of Ukraine addressed and received applause, recommended that Ukraine be made an official "candidate" for EU membership. The European Parliament has voted to advance Ukraine's membership with 637 voted for, with 13 voted against, and 26 abstained.  On 2 March, however, Spanish foreign minister José Manuel Albares stated that "belonging to the EU is not a capricious process or one that can be done by a mere political decision", reminding that the candidate country "must meet certain social, political and economic standards".

On 7 March, the EU said it will formally assess Ukraine's application. On 8 April, European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen and EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell visited Kyiv. Von der Leyen presented president Zelenskyy with a questionnaire for membership. Borrell announced that the EU delegation to Ukraine, headed by Matti Maasikas, will return to Kyiv after it was evacuated at the outbreak of war. On 18 April, Ukraine completed the questionnaire. On 24 May, the Council of the European Union adopted a regulation enabling for temporary trade liberalisation with Ukraine, interrupting all tariffs under Title IV of the association agreement, anti-dumping duties and the enforcement of common rules for imports.

On 17 June 2022, the EU Commission officially announced its recommendation to grant Ukraine EU candidate status. On 23 June 2022, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for the immediate granting of candidate status for membership in the European Union to Ukraine. On 23 June 2022, the European Council granted Ukraine the status of a candidate for accession to the European Union. In January 2023, the prime minister of Ukraine claimed that the country would join the EU "within the next two years", however, this is seen as overly optimistic within the bloc.

On 8 May 2023, the President of Ukraine established a decree to celebrate Europe Day on May 9, coinciding with EU member states. Representative of the European Commission Dana Spinant welcomed Ukraine's decision to start celebrating Europe Day on May 9, noting that this decision is a reflection of the European identity of the Ukrainian people.

In October 2023, former European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker called Ukraine “massively corrupt” at all levels of society. Juncker, a most experienced expert of EU-Ukraine relations said in an article by the Augsburger Allgemeine that the admission of Ukraine to the EU “would be neither good for the EU nor for Ukraine.” In August 2023, two high-ranking Ukrainian officials were prime suspects in an embezzlement scheme that involved the procurement of humanitarian aid for the war-torn country, and former Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov in charge of purchases of arms from Western countries had to resign in September of the same year due to accusations of corruption in his ranks. Juncker’s statements stand in sharp contrast to the acting EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen’s drive to allow the opening of accession negotiations for Ukraine to join the EU as soon as December 2023. Membership of Ukraine in the EU is seen as a major factor to win the war against Russia as the country relies on military and economic support from other European nations.

Ukraine's foreign relations with EU member states

See also 
 
Accession of Ukraine to the European Union
Armenia–European Union relations 
Azerbaijan–European Union relations
Association Trio 
Eastern Partnership
European Political Community
Euronest Parliamentary Assembly
Georgia–European Union relations
Moldova–European Union relations
INOGATE 
Poland–Ukraine relations
Russia–European Union relations
Ukraine–NATO relations 
2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine

Notes

References

Literature