[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Johns

. . radical element [formed] a Reformed Episcopal Church, [B]ecause of his influence the majority of the clergy and people would go with him . . . . John Johns stood firm as a rock . . . [and in Virginia] the movement stopped right there. . . [T]he stand taken by Bishop Johns had saved the Church."

In 1872, as the diocese began to recover economically, Rt. Rev. Johns became concerned about the growing High Church movement, and particularly about using altars in remodeled churches rather than the "honest table .. on which, not a sacrifice is to be offered, but the Lord's Supper administered." He also listed "Romish errors" to be avoided, including use of incense, crucifix, candles, processional crosses, bowing and genuflections, permitting laymen to assist in Holy Communion, mixing water and wine, elevation of bread and wine, use of wafer bread, and the wearing of any vestments other than a black cassock, gown, bands and white surplice with black or white stole."

Nonetheless, when an ultra-evangelical party tried to create the Reformed Episcopal Church in 1875, Bishops Johns and Whittle kept the Virginia Church in the General Convention, and only three clergymen from the diocese left with Kentucky's assistant Bishop George D. Cummins (and fellow former Delawarean).

Death and legacy
After serving as a bishop for 34 years, Bishop Johns died in 1876 at his home, Malvern, next to VTS. He reportedly whispered as his dying words, "guide me—wash me—clothe me—help me under the shadow of Thy wings." Bishop Johns was interred in the newly established cemetery of the Virginia Theological Seminary in Alexandria.

He had married three times and willed most of his property to his two sons. One son, by his second wife, Dr. Arthur Schaaf Johns, also became an Episcopal priest and rector in Rockville, Maryland. The other son, Dr. Kensey Johns (1825-1909) of Norfolk, Virginia, inherited the ancestral estate, Sudley, on the Delmarva Peninsula. His daughter by his first wife (and named after her), Julianna Johns (1822-1883), never married but remained active in Episcopal Church affairs until her death six years later. She founded the Alexandria Infirmary in 1882, which became Alexandria Hospital (now part of the Inova Health System, which erected a plaque in her memory near her and her father's graves).

Johns Memorial Episcopal Church, located in Farmville, Virginia and now in the Diocese of Southern Virginia, stands today as a living memorial to Bishop John Johns's ministry, although it also featured later in the Massive Resistance movement of the 1950s. Furthermore, as mentioned earlier, Johns Parish in Middleburg and Aldie, Virginia is named after this bishop. Farmville, like the Middleburg/Aldie area and Frederick, Maryland (as well as Gettysburg, Pennsylvania) are all near the same historic north–south route in the midAtlantic's Piedmont region that became U.S. Route 15. His ancestral home near Chesapeake Bay, Sudley, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1973.

See also
 List of people with reduplicated names

References

External links
 College of William and Mary
 Episcopal Diocese of Virginia
 Johns Memorial Episcopal Church
 

1796 births
1876 deaths
19th-century Anglican bishops in the United States
People from Alexandria, Virginia
People from New Castle, Delaware
People of Virginia in the American Civil War
Presidents of the College of William & Mary
Princeton University alumni
Virginia Theological Seminary faculty
Episcopal bishops of Virginia