[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 54]
# The Republic — Plato

ucecchio and San Miniato, inflicting immense damage upon the country.
Whereupon the Florentines recalled their army, which had scarcely
reached Tuscany, when Castruccio was forced by other necessities to
return to Lucca.

There resided in the city of Lucca the Poggio family, who were so
powerful that they could not only elevate Castruccio, but even advance
him to the dignity of prince; and it appearing to them they had not
received such rewards for their services as they deserved, they incited
other families to rebel and to drive Castruccio out of Lucca. They
found their opportunity one morning, and arming themselves, they set
upon the lieutenant whom Castruccio had left to maintain order and
killed him. They endeavoured to raise the people in revolt, but Stefano
di Poggio, a peaceable old man who had taken no hand in the rebellion,
intervened and compelled them by his authority to lay down their arms;
and he offered to be their mediator with Castruccio to obtain from him
what they desired. Therefore they laid down their arms with no greater
intelligence than they had taken them up. Castruccio, having heard the
news of what had happened at Lucca, at once put Pagolo Guinigi in
command of the army, and with a troop of cavalry set out for home.
Contrary to his expectations, he found the rebellion at an end, yet he
posted his men in the most advantageous places throughout the city. As
it appeared to Stefano that Castruccio ought to be very much obliged to
him, he sought him out, and without saying anything on his own behalf,
for he did not recognize any need for doing so, he begged Castruccio to
pardon the other members of his family by reason of their youth, their
former friendships, and the obligations which Castruccio was under to
their house. To this Castruccio graciously responded, and begged
Stefano to reassure himself, declaring that it gave him more pleasure
to find the tumult at an end than it had ever caused him anxiety to
hear of its inception. He encouraged Stefano to bring his family to
him, saying that he thanked God for having given him the opportunity of
showing his clemency and liberality. Upon the word of Stefano and
Castruccio they surrendered, and with Stefano were immediately thrown
into prison and put to death. Meanwhile the Florentines had recovered
San Miniato, whereupon it seemed advisable to Castruccio to make peace,
as it did not appear to him that he was sufficiently secure at Lucca to
leave him. He approached the Florentines with the proposal of a truce,
which they readily entertained, for they were weary of the war, and
desirous of getting rid of the expenses of it. A treaty was concluded
with them for two years, by which both parties agreed to keep the
conquests they had made. Castruccio thus released from this trouble,
turned his attention to affairs in Lucca, and in order that he should
not again be subject to the perils from which he had just escaped, he,
under various pretences and reasons, first wiped out all those who by
their ambition might aspire to the principality; not sparing one of
them, but depriving them of country and property, and those whom he had
in his hands of life also, stating that he had found by experience that
none of them were to be trusted. Then for his further security he
raised a fortress in Lucca with the stones of the towers of those whom
he had killed or hunted out of the state.

Whilst Castruccio made peace with the Florentines, and strengthened his
position in Lucca, he neglected no opportunity, short of open war, of
increasing his importance elsewhere. It appeared to him that if he
could get possession of Pistoia, he would have one foot in Florence,
which was his great desire. He, therefore, in various ways made friends
with the mountaineers, and worked matters so in Pistoia that both
parties confided their secrets to him. Pistoia was divided, as it
always had been, into the Bianchi and Neri parties; the head of the
Bianchi was Bastiano di Possente, and of the Neri, Jacopo da Gia. Each
of these men held secret communications with Castruccio, and each
desired to drive the other out of the city; and, after many
threatenings, they came to blows. Jacopo fortified himself at the
Florentine gate, Bastiano at that of the Lucchese side of the city;
both trusted more in Castruccio than in the Florentines, because they
believed that Castruccio was far more ready and willing to fight than
the Florentines, and they both sent to him for assistance. He gave
promises to both, saying to Bastiano that he would come in person, and
to Jacopo that he would send his pupil, Pagolo Guinigi. At the
appointed time he sent forward Pagolo by way of Pisa, and went himself
direct to Pistoia; at midnight both of them met outside the city, and
both were admitted as friends. Thus the two leaders entered, and at a
signal given by Castruccio, one killed Jacopo da Gia, and the other
Bastiano di Possente, and