[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Denílson (footballer, born 1988)

the 2019 Campeonato Paulista loss against Red Bull Brasil. He was released in April having made no further appearances, due to fitness issues.

Sliema Wanderers
In August 2020 Denílson decided to come back to Europe, signing a one-year contract with the Maltese Premier League side Sliema Wanderers.

International career
Denílson has played for and captained Brazil at every junior level since he was a member of the under-15 squad. He captained the U17s to a runners-up spot at the 2005 FIFA U-17 World Championship. In November 2006, Denílson was called up to the Brazilian national side for a friendly match against Switzerland to replace his Arsenal teammate Gilberto Silva who pulled out for personal reasons. However, he did not make his debut, as he was an unused substitute in the match.

Personal life
Denílson is described as "very quiet and polite" and is often compared to Gilberto Silva, his former teammate at Arsenal. Denílson often credits Gilberto Silva with his current success as he acted as a "father" to him when he first moved from Brazil to London.

Denílson is fond of Brazilian music and the samba—he can even be found on YouTube singing and dancing with his former Brazilian Arsenal teammates Gilberto Silva and Júlio Baptista. He typically celebrates his goals by going to the corner flag and dancing a samba in front of fans, which he did when he scored his first Premier League goal for Arsenal.

He is also married, and has a son from his marriage.

Denílson is also a fan of Arsenal.

Career statistics

Honours
São Paulo
Copa Libertadores: 2005
FIFA Club World Cup: 2005
Copa Sudamericana: 2012

Arsenal
Football League Cup: runners-up 2006–07, 2010–11

Al Wadha
UAE League Cup: 2015–16

Brazil U17
South American U-17 Championship: 2005
FIFA U-17 World Championship: runner-up 2005

References

External links

Arsenal.com profile

1988 births
Living people
Footballers from São Paulo
Brazilian men's footballers
Brazilian expatriate men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
São Paulo FC players
Cruzeiro Esporte Clube players
Arsenal F.C. players
Al Wahda FC players
Botafogo Futebol Clube (SP) players
Campeonato Brasileiro Série A players
Premier League players
UAE Pro League players
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in England
Brazil men's youth international footballers
Expatriate footballers in Malta
Sliema Wanderers F.C. players