[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sendai Nuclear Power Plant

of the Japanese NRA recently introduced guide for the evaluation of nuclear power plant sites with respect to the potential effects of volcanic activity, specifically aligning this to the Sendai NPP presently proposed for restart following a four-year shut down in the aftermath of Fukushima Daiichi.

In April 2015, a Japanese court rejected a complaint against the restart.
On May 28, 2015, The Nuclear Regulation Authority approved the station's emergency plans, which was the last regulatory hurdle remaining before restarts could happen. Owner Kyushu Electric Power Company then had all approvals necessary for restart.
On July 7, 2015, fuel loading of Sendai unit #1 began. The NRA completed its pre-operational examinations and gave Kyushu Electric Company the green light to place fuel inside the reactor vessel.

Sendai's reactor no. 1 was restarted on August 11, 2015. Naoto Kan, former Prime Minister (2010–2011), was among the protesters who were demonstrating in front of the Sendai plant when the reactor was restarted.

On November 1, 2015, followed reactor n.2, at full-capacity the same day, with its thermal output reaching the maximum level, about two weeks after it was reactivated. No major problems occurred in the process. The utility first restarted reactor n.2, removing the control rods on October, 15.

The unit 1 was shut down for maintenance from October to December 2016; Kagoshima governor Satoshi Mitazono approved the restarting of the reactor despite his personal opposition to nuclear power.

On 7 January 2017 unit 1 resumed commercial operation.

In March 2019, the Nuclear Regulation Authority (NRA) announced it would install seabed sensors to monitor the Aira Caldera 40 km from the nuclear plant, to supplement land-based monitoring. In the extremely unlikely event of signs of major volcanic activity, it would be possible to remove nuclear fuel from the reactors.

2020 shutdown and restart

In March 2020, reactor #1 was shut down again because it could not meet the deadline for anti-terrorism safety measures. It was the first time a reactor was shut down for this reason in Japan. After the required work was completed, the reactor was restarted in November 2020.

Reactor #2 was shut down for the same reason in May 2020; it is expected to be restarted in January 2021 after installing anti-terrorism safety measures and completing maintenance.

See also 

 List of nuclear power plants in Japan

References

External links

Kyushu Electric Webpage 九州電力 
Sendai NPP c/o Kyushu Electric 九州電力・川内原子力発電所 

Buildings and structures in Kagoshima Prefecture
Nuclear power stations in Japan
1970s establishments in Japan
Nuclear power stations using pressurized water reactors