[Source: PubMed]

24. BMC Psychiatry. 2025 Mar 12;25(1):236. doi: 10.1186/s12888-025-06654-1.

Mental health of university students twenty months after the beginning of the 
full-scale Russian-Ukrainian war.

Polyvianaia M(1), Yachnik Y(1), Fegert JM(2)(3)(4), Sitarski E(2)(3)(4), 
Stepanova N(1), Pinchuk I(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv, 
Zdanovska str., 36, Kyiv, 03022, Ukraine.
(2)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry/Psychotherapy, University 
Hospital Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(3)Competence Area Mental Health Prevention in the Competence Network Preventive 
Medicine Baden-Württemberg, Ulm, Germany.
(4)German Center for Mental Health (DZPG), partner site Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(5)Institute of Psychiatry, Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv, 
Zdanovska str., 36, Kyiv, 03022, Ukraine. irina.pinchuk@knu.ua.
(6)Ukrainian Psychiatric Association, Kyiv, Ukraine. irina.pinchuk@knu.ua.

BACKGROUND: Russia's full-scale military invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 
2022 led to an increase of anxiety and depressive states, psychosomatic 
manifestations, and a tendency to abuse alcohol and psychoactive substances in 
the population. The aim of this paper is to examine the mental health burden 
among university students twenty months after war and to identify risk and 
protective factors for mental health problems.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted among Ukrainian students in 
October 2023 (n = 1398). The online survey included sociodemographic data 
collection, evaluation of psychological well-being and measured depression, 
anxiety, PTSD symptoms and insomnia. Normality of included variables was 
verified by Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. An independent-samples t-test, Mann-Whitney 
U-test, χ2 test and analysis of variance were used to compare the data. 
Differences in PHQ-9 and GAD-7 levels based on sociodemographic characteristics 
were analyzed using ANOVA. Correlation between variables was calculated with 
Pearson correlation, adjusted with Benjamini-Hochberg procedure. To develop the 
predictive model the XGBoost algorithm was employed, additionally, the SHAP 
algorithm was utilized.
RESULTS: Symptoms of PTSD, as well as moderate and severe symptoms of anxiety, 
depression, and insomnia, were reported by 48.1%, 34.1%, 33.6%, and 19.3% of 
students, respectively. The severity of these symptoms varied based on factors 
such as sex, age, prior trauma experiences, and living conditions. Additionally, 
the type of relocation (within Ukraine or abroad) significantly influenced 
mental health outcomes. A majority of participants (68.5%) reported the 
experience of war-related traumatic events. Factors linked to higher depression 
symptom scores included lower initial well-being, greater social media use, 
female gender, exposure to multiple traumatic events, experiences of assault or 
sexual violence, the loss of a loved one, pre-existing and ongoing mental health 
treatment during the war, and the use of psychotropic medications.
CONCLUSIONS: Ukrainian university students face a significant mental health 
burden due to the ongoing war, with high rates of reported PTSD, anxiety, 
depression, and insomnia symptoms. These findings highlight the importance of 
tailored mental health interventions through different stakeholders that take 
into account individual needs, past experiences, burdens and social media usage.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-025-06654-1
PMCID: PMC11905627
PMID: 40075321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Еthics Сommittee of the Institute of 
Psychiatry of the Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv (No. 
1/17.07.2023) and was conducted in accordance with the principles of the 
Declaration of Helsinki. All participants gave their informed consent for 
inclusion before participating in the study. Clinical trial number: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: JMF reports the following conflict of interest 
(last five years): Research from EU, BMG (Federal Ministry of Health), BMBF 
(Federal Ministry of Education and Research), BMFSFJ (Federal Ministry of 
Family, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth), DFG (German Research Foundation), 
G-BA Innovation Fund, State Ministries Baden-Württemberg and Saarland, State 
Foundation Baden-Württemberg, Ingrid & Frank Foundation, Foundation Deutsche 
Krebshilfe (German Cancer Charity), Auxilium Foundation, Vector Foundation, 
Evangelical-Lutheran Church in Württemberg, Porticus Foundation. Travel grants, 
honoraria, sponsorship for conferences and medical educational purposes from 
APK, Adenauer- und Ebert Foundation, Deutschlandfunk, DFG, DJI, DKSB, 
Infectopharm, med update, UNICEF, professional associations, universities and 
federal and state ministries. Consultant for APK e.V., University Hospital 
Saarland/State Chancellery, federal and state ministries, Servier. No 
industry-sponsored lecture series, no shareholdings, no participation in 
pharmaceutical companies. All other authors report no competing interests.