[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frank Moraes

sent Day (1973).

Author, celebrated journalist, editor
In obituaries to his son, the poet and writer Dom Moraes, Frank Moraes was called an "author ... sometime editor of the Times of India", and "an Oxford-educated lawyer who was to become a celebrated journalist and Editor of The Times of India".

Archives
Frank Moraes' archives  are held in London by SOAS Special Collections and consist of  "notebooks and diaries; correspondence; newspaper clippings and typescripts of Moraes' regular columns, articles and tour articles; reviews of Moraes' books; photographs; drawings, illustrations and programmes; recorded broadcasts; papers of (his wife) Beryl Moraes' objects".

His archives include papers covering mainly the 1930s–1974 period, and are useful considering that he worked as a journalist, author and editor during a crucial period in the history of India and a then just-being-decolonised Asia – particularly between 1950–1974.

It also contains his notebooks and diaries, dating from 1950–1974, from Australia and New Zealand, South East Asia, China, Japan, Pakistan, India, Africa, Western and Eastern Europe and the USA. Listings of his archives  say it includes correspondence, professional and personal matters, newspaper clippings, regular columns and archives, reviews of the books he published, photographs from 1930s to 1970s, recorded broadcasts and the diary of his wife, Beryl, dating to 1962.

Frank Moraes Foundation
This news item in The Hindu newspaper mentions a memorial lectures in honour of Frank Moraes. It cites a "Frank Moraes Foundation" being among the institutions taking the initiative in this regard. The United Writer's Association of India "is responsible for having instituted the distinguished FRANK MORAES MEMORIAL LECTURES to perpetuate the hallowed memory of distinguished Journalist FRANK MORAES - the doyen of Indian Journalism who was responsible for having extended the realm of journalism to socio-political dimensions of development, for fearless comments on the highest in the land and for a broader vision of India. (...) The UWA has eminently succeeded in organizing three decades of public lectures in our country."

EducationWorldOnline.net  says the Frank Moraes Foundation was set up by demographer, social worker, academician and philosopher Dr. K. Thyagarajan "in 1985 and instituted the Frank Moraes Memorial Lecture in 2002". It adds that Thyagaraj was an "ardent admirer and disciple of the late Indian Express editor Frank Moraes, the doyen of Indian journalism."

See also
 Marilyn Silverstone

References

External links
Papers of Francis Robert Moraes, 1930s-1974, reflecting his career as a journalist and author, particularly the period 1950–1974, and including his notebooks and diaries... 
Books by Frank Moraes, available online
Links to Frank Moraes, via Google
Links to Frank Moraes Foundation

1907 births
1974 deaths
Goan Catholics
Members of Lincoln's Inn
Indian barristers
Indian Roman Catholics
Journalists from Maharashtra
Writers from Mumbai
20th-century Indian lawyers
20th-century Indian journalists
Sheriffs of Mumbai
Moraes family