[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Politics of Toowoomba, Queensland

d and the new seat of Groom was created in 1984, with the effect (largely) of renaming the seat. The seat has always been held by the non-Labor parties.

John McVeigh, a member of the LNP has held the seat since 2016.  To contest the 2016 election, he resigned from his state seat of Toowoomba South.

The Toowoomba Region has a strong conservative influence in politics, particularly socially.  Groom is a very safe LNP seat, with McVeigh winning 65.31% of the two-party preferred vote.  Although suburbs between North Street and the Second Range Crossing show strengthening progressive influence, the rural parts of the seat are much too conservative to feasibly see a Labor member elected.

Significant political events in Toowoomba
During the 1989 Queensland state elections, the Toowoomba-based Logos Foundation caused controversy with a questionnaire on "moral" issues sent to candidates, with the results being published in newspaper advertisements.

In 2003 Aboriginal activist Stephen Hagan created a stir over the name of the "E.S. Nigger Brown Stand" at a Toowoomba sports field. E S Brown was an Anglo-Australian, who was known as "Nigger Brown" during his career as a rugby league footballer. Brown was given the nickname due to a popular boot polish at the time and his "slick" attack whilst on the football field and was known to be slick as boot polish hence the nickname Nigger Brown. He has also challenged Coon cheese over claims that the name was racist.

In 2005 a white supremacist group calling itself the White Pride Coalition put up racist posters in Toowoomba and Crows Nest, harassed African (mostly Sudanese) refugees living in Toowoomba and achieved national notoriety.

In 2005 Mayor Di Thorley proposed a controversial plan to recycle purified treated sewage into one of the dams to be used for drinking water. On 29 July 2006 the Toowoomba City Council conducted a poll regarding this controversial plan. The poll question was:

Do you support the addition of purified recycled water to Toowoomba’s water supply via Cooby Dam as proposed by Water Futures –Toowoomba?

A majority of 62% of voters opposed the plan.

References

Toowoomba
Toowoomba
Politics of Queensland