[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Via Giulia

oject of architect Carlo Rainaldi. The building was consecrated in 1669, and the façade was finished in 1680. The church's interior was renovated in 1869; the frescoes inside the church are by Cesare Mariani (Coronation of the Virgin) and Giuseppe Chiari (Nativity of Mary and Adoration of the Magi).

19 Palazzo dei Tribunali
Julius II's most important planned project in the new street was a central administration building, in which a large part of the city's important offices and courts ("tribunali") were to be grouped together. The pope's commission to Donato Bramante (at the time main architect of the new St. Peter's Basilica) was issued around 1506, and construction in the area between Vicolo del Cefalo and Via del Gonfalone began before 1508, but was interrupted as in 1511 by the Pax Romana. With Julius II's death in 1513, construction completely stopped. Giorgio Vasari wrote:

Some remains of the mighty rusticated walls, called i sofà di Via Giulia () by the Roman population, between Via del Gonfalone and Vicolo del Cefalo along Via Giulia, can be seen today.

20 San Biagio della Pagnotta (San Biagio degli Armeni) (Via Giulia ad. 63)

This church was dedicated to Saint Blaise of Sebaste and is mentioned in the church catalogues of the Middle Ages under the name of San Biagio de Cantu Secuta. The name "della pagnotta" is derived from the Roman word pagnotta ("bread roll"), which was distributed to the faithful on the 3 February (feast of St. Blaise) and thought to protect against throat illnesses. The church was attached to one of the first abbeys in Rome. An inscription on the interior commemorates the construction of the church by an abbot Dominicus in 1072. According to the Bramante's plans, this church was to be included in the yard of the Palazzo dei Tribunali. From 1539 to 1835 it was a parish church. In 1826 Pope Gregory XVI () assigned the church to the Armenian community of Santa Maria Egiziaca. Since then it has been called officially San Biagio degli Armeni.

21 Palazzo Ricci-Donarelli (Via Giulia no. 99-105)
The palace is opposite to the Palazzo Sacchetti and was originally a group of residential buildings that first belonged to the Ricci and later to the Donarelli family.  The complex was restructured in 1663, possibly by Carlo Rainaldi.

22 Palazzo Sacchetti (Via Giulia 66)

Antonio da Sangallo the Younger built the palace on land bought in 1542 by the Vatican Chapter. The façade still bears the chipped coat of arms of Paul III. His son Orazio inherited the building and sold it in 1552 to Cardinal Giovanni Ricci di Montepulciano, who had the palace extended to its current dimensions by the architect Nanni di Baccio Bigio. An inscription in the Vicolo del Cefalo's side wall states that the palace was exempted from paying the census tax in 1555. The building changed hands several times. In 1649 it was bought by the Florentine Sacchetti family, whose name it still bears. The entrance to Via Giulia is made of marble and flanked on both sides by three large windows with grilles, thresholds, and cornices. In the left corner of the palazzo there is a small fountain  flanked by caryatides with two dolphins embedded in the wall; this refers to the later owners, the Ceuli family, whose coat of arms was chipped. Notable features inside include the Salone dei Mappamondi ("Hall of World Maps"), designed by Francesco Salviati, and the dining room with two frescoes painted by Pietro da Cortona. The writer Ingeborg Bachmann lived in this palazzo in 1973  dying at Sant'Eugenio Hospital on 17 October 1973.

23 Palace with the Farnese coats of arms (Via Giulia 93)
The building's first owner could have been Durante Duranti, lover of Costanza Farnese, or Guglielmo della Porta, which in this case would have been also the architect. The palazzo takes its name from the three coats of arms of the Farnese family, which were added to the façade under Paul III. In the centre of the upper floor there is the coat of arms of Paul III with the papal tiara and the keys between two unicorns. On the left is the coat of arms of Cardinal Alessandro Farnese and on the right the coat of arms of his brother Ottavio Farnese or of Pierluigi Farnese, both Dukes of Parma and Piacenza.

24 Palazzo Medici Clarelli (Via Giulia 79)
Antonio da Sangallo the Younger built this palace as a private residence around 1535–1536. After Sangallo's death in 1546 the building was owned by the Florentine Migliore Cresci. An inscription above the main portal  immortalizes Duke Cosimo I de' Medici. The palace for some time belonged to the Tuscan Consulate in Rome. At the end of the 17th century it was acquired by the Marini Clarelli family. In the 19th century it was used as barracks before being sold to the city of Rome in 1870. The façade (richly historiated at the time of Cresci) and the portal are lined with rusticated ashlars. On the sides of the portal there are badly rebuilt large windows on consoles.