[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Giorgio La Pira

vism against fascism became even greater once Benito Mussolini passed the racial laws. At a National Congress held in Assisi in 1942 he spoke in praise of "the peace that constructs" and of "the love that rebuilds". La Pira also rejected the criticisms of Luigi Sturzo on an alleged economic statism.

Mayor
Once the war ended La Pira set about rebuilding Florence, which was struggling to recover from the destruction the war caused in most Italian cities at the time. As mayor he steered Florence from the haphazard reconstruction efforts that were evident for other Italian efforts in reconstruction and rehabilitation. He believed that the focus of rebuilding should be self-sufficient neighborhoods. These neighborhoods centered around local shops and public gardens as well as around markets and tree-lined streets with schools and churches. The most well-known of these is Isolotto – or the "little island". These revitalized neighborhoods became the heart and soul of post-war Florence and continue to thrive at present. La Pira led the effort for the reconstruction of bridges such as the Vespucci and Santa Trinita Bridge as well as the Alle Grazie. Other public works projects included such job-creating projects as the expansion of the water works, a waste system, and public transportation networks. La Pira often used legal loopholes as a means of requisitioning vacant villas for the poor or evicted people and he also designed low-cost housing. He constructed new schools and refurbished the municipal theatre as well as repaving streets. In 1949 the Prime Minister Alcide de Gasperi appointed him as the undersecretary for labor in his cabinet alongside La Pira's old friend Amintore Fanfani.

La Pira often took an even more active role in job creation. When Florence's oldest industrial plant "Pignone" threatened to close due to a slump in demand, he persuaded Enrico Mattei – the President and CEO of ENI – to take it over, thus saving more than a thousand jobs (about 1750 workers). ENI later renamed itself as Nuovo Pignone and still operates now as a division of General Electric. But some adversaries – even within his own ranks – accused La Pira of statism or spurious Marxism.

Religious life and international ventures
La Pira became a professed member of the Third Order of Saint Dominic in 1925 and assumed the name of Fra Raimondo; he viewed his Christian faith as a serious matter and was a devout Christian. It was on 11 December 1927 that he assumed the habit of the Dominicans. Following the war it was not uncommon to see him in public walking barefoot, having given his shoes and clothing as well as most of his earnings to the poor and downtrodden. La Pira often referred to himself as a "free apostle of the Lord". He also held Cardinal Elia dalla Costa in high esteem which was reciprocal. He visited the cardinal often to exchange views and opinions on current affairs and it was Dalla Costa who inspired his love of the Bible for interpreting historical occurrences. It was in 1934 that he first met Giovanni Battista Montini – the future Pope Paul VI – and the two remained firm friends. It was Montini who referred La Pira to Monsignor Raffaele Bensi as a spiritual director and confessor.

He was also active in national and international politics. He sought to put Florence on the world stage as a leading hub for peace initiatives and forums. He struck sister city relationships with cities including Rheims and Philadelphia and made U Thant and Charles-Édouard Jeanneret honorary citizens of Florence. In 1946 he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies where he had a major role in drafting the Italian Constitution. Despite sometimes intense criticism, La Pira paid several visits to Moscow and China and even Hanoi throughout the Cold War era. Until his death he promoted issues such as disarmament and the importance of third world development, as well as tolerance among world religions.