[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rebel Heart (TV series)

ns of the Easter Rising, Michael Collins is playing a leading role in the embryonic Irish Republican Army. A number of events such as the burial of County Meath militant Thomas Ashe, who had died on hunger strike, persuaded Coyne and many other Irishmen to take up arms against the government forces.

Third episode
It is now 1920. Posing as an insurance salesman, Coyne is sent to the west of the country to co-ordinate rebel activities there. Arriving in West Cork, Coyne is angered to find the local movement disorganised and ill-equipped with commanders who are halfhearted and reluctant to disturb their quiet lives in the small community. With a new-found assertiveness, Coyne re-invigorates the recruits, stealing rifles from a British unit and later mounting a successful ambush of an army patrol. Coyne is worried when his men speak of how they plan to fight the Irish Protestant Unionists after they have driven out the British. He and another rebel are forced to kill two RIC officers who stumble upon their activities. Coyne swells with pride at his leadership abilities and he cockily seduces the daughter of a farmer who shelters him and several of his men, an act he soon regrets as he remembers his feelings for Ita.

In Belfast, Tom O'Toole and Albert Kelly stage an attack on the headquarters of the RIC to avenge the deaths of members of Ita's family who were brutally gunned down by an RIC murder squad. The attack fails and both O'Toole and Kelly are wounded and captured. Coyne is recalled to Belfast and he meets with Michael Collins who informs him that O'Toole and Kelly are in prison. Coyne's humility is restored as Collins reminds him of the bloodier and much more difficult war going on in the rest of the country. The rebels break into Belfast prison, successfully breaking out O'Toole and Kelly but Coyne is badly wounded as they escape.

Fourth episode
In 1921, Coyne recovers from his wounds in a rural hideout in Antrim in Northern Ireland. His mother travels from Dublin to visit but Coyne pretends to be asleep, unwilling to speak to her. Kelly and Ursula agree to marry but their happiness is soured by news of the Treaty of 1921 in which a deputation to Britain led by Michael Collins agreed to partition the nation into the new Republic in the south and the British-ruled North. Ita, whose family are in Belfast, is angry and bitter, believing that the new government has sold them out, condemning them to live as a persecuted minority in the Unionist-dominated north.

Arriving in Dublin in 1922, Coyne, Ita, Kelly and Ursula are disheartened to see the Free State already becoming a traditional-style government based on wealth and power, ending the dream of a worker's republic. Even O'Toole, now a close associate of Collins, has been seduced by the trappings of authority and position. At Kelly and Ursula's wedding, O'Toole is Best Man but he and Kelly angrily argue over the Treaty, mirroring the rapidly emerging divisions in the country between pro and anti-Treaty factions. Coyne reluctantly sides with Collins but he is torn between his desire for his country to avoid civil war and his loyalty to his former comrades. Kelly joins the anti-Treaty rebels as they seize key positions in Dublin and even O'Toole's younger sister Eileen joins their ranks. Collins orders his troops to begin storming the rebel positions. O'Toole approaches the rebel barricades to talk his sister into going home but a nearby nervous soldier discharges a round, killing her.

As fighting breaks out across Dublin, beginning the Irish Civil War, a distraught and angry O'Toole leads his troops in pursuit of the rebels, hunting them down ruthlessly. Seeing Kelly about to be shot by a government soldier, Coyne kills the latter and switches sides, joining Kelly. Injured in the fighting, Coyne is left in a deserted building whilst Kelly goes to find an escape route. O'Toole abruptly enters the room and he and Coyne fire simultaneously, mortally wounding each other. Kelly comes back and O'Toole aims his gun at him but then changes his mind, deciding to let his old friend go. As Kelly escapes to meet up with Ursula and Ita, O'Toole and Coyne lie side by side, reconciling with each other as they both succumb to their wounds.

Controversy
The production of Rebel Heart proved to be controversial. It was most heavily criticised in Britain for what was perceived as its slanted viewpoint of the events between 1916 and 1922.

Criticised in particular was the involvement of the BBC in making a film purportedly propagandising for the IRA during the delicate peace process in Northern Ireland. The Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble attacked the corporation for making a series that could be used as propaganda for the modern IRA.

Media releases
The series has not yet been released on DVD.

See also
 The Wind That Shakes The Barley (film)
 Rebel Heart (song)
 Michael Collins (film)

References

External links