[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Internal media of the Chinese Communist Party

authoritative documents are drafted by the Central Committee to convey instructions from CCP leaders.  Documents with "Chinese Communist Party Central Committee Document" (中共中央文件; zhōnggòng zhōngyāng wénjiàn) written at the top in red letters are the most authoritative.

 Internal news publications 

There are four types of publications in this category. The first three types are internal news, edited and distributed within the Chinese news control system by the Second Editorial Office of the Domestic News Department of the Xinhua News Agency and by the Chief Editor's Office of the People's Daily. The fourth type of publication is devoted to policy suggestions and reports to relatively low level officials:

 Domestic Developments (国内动态; guónèi dòngtài) edited by Xinhua News Agency once or twice daily to report on important domestic events and important proposals at the high level of the CCP.  Generally called Big Reference (大参考; dà cānkǎo), it is 2 to 6 pages long and distributed to the central committee leaders, officials of ministerial rank, and to provincial governors and Party secretaries. This top secret document must be returned after being read; those who lose it assume political responsibility. Although unlikely and forbidden by authorities, some of the content might be leaked overseas by word of mouth. Domestic Developments is a bulletin for the leaders that includes detailed analysis of matters, such as certain social disturbances, that will not be reported in the mass media, or at least not at a level as detailed as what is reported in the Domestic Developments.
 Internal Reference (内部参考; nèibù cānkǎo) edited by the Xinhua News Agency twice weekly, it has 40 to 60 pages to report major domestic developments and statements.  This secret document is circulated as far down as the regional and divisional levels and is the only formal channel to provide domestic classified information to medium and higher ranking Party members.
 Internal Reference Selections (内部选编; nèibù xuǎnbiān) edited by the Xinhua News Agency weekly with 30 to 40 pages. It provides confidential level information to grassroots cadres down to the district and township leader level as well as to officials at the higher county and regimental level. After the mid-1990s very few true confidential matters appeared in it and it was no longer collected after reading. Readership was extended to the deputy office director level.
 Internal Readings (内部参阅; nèibù cānyuè) edited by the People's Daily. Internal Readings is a secret level news document that contains policy suggestions and some survey reports of sensitive matters such as corruption in the government and studies on problems of village governments. From the mid-1990s cadres at the vice office director level have been allowed to subscribe privately to Internal Readings.

The news monopoly has enabled the CCP to filter the news, although this has become more difficult since the Internet arose in the 1990s. Security has weakened and many units no longer collect Internal Reference Selections or Internal Readings''. However private citizens are not allowed to hold secret or above classified material and some people have been prosecuted for that offense. The scope of state secrets can be expanded at the CCP's convenience. In some cases, He Qinglian writes, formerly open materials have become classified.  After the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests and massacre, for the sake of protecting China's image, many documents issued by the Propaganda Department of the CCP to guide the media have been classified at the top secret or secret levels or have been passed orally.

Censorship 
Since CCP general secretary Xi Jinping has consolidated power, internal-only reports have been subject to censorship previously applied only to media for the general public.

See also
Neican
Dibao

References

Mass media in China
Politics of China
Censorship in China
Government of China
Chinese Communist Party