[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gear Fighter Dendoh

e youngest person ever. She was initially working on data weapon research at GEAR's U.S. branch, but was selected as the chief data weapon analyst and transferred to the Japan headquarters. After arriving in Japan, she transferred to Hoshimi Elementary School as a chaperone of Ginga and his friends.

A mechanical life form that reigns at the top of the mechanical empire of Galfa. He seeks to eliminate mankind from all the stars and become the king of the universe itself, and sends Spiral Castle to Earth as his sentinel. He treats his subordinates as disposable pawns, and is ruthless and merciless in his treatment of those who fail him.

The son of Emperor Galfa, in the position of Prince of the Galfa Empire. Like Arthea, he is qualified to control the Ogre. After the failed invasion of Earth by the Spiral Castle, he was assigned to search for the 7th Data Weapon and visited Earth with Zero. He loves Galfa as his brother and hates Hokuto, the Ogre pilot who took him away from him. However, as he exchanged feelings with the brainwashed Hokuto, he began to realize that feelings of joy and loneliness had been born within him, and he began to be puzzled.

Gear Machines

Spec
Height 24.5 meters
Weight 399.8 tons

Spec
Height 28.5 meters
weight 401.0 tons

Unicorn Drill 
Spec
Height 23.0 meters

Viper Whip 
Spec
Height 58.0 meters

Leo Circle 
Spec
Height 15.0 meters

Bull Horn 
Spec
Height 16.0 meters

Dragon Flare 
Spec
Height 27.0 meters

Gatling Boar 
Spec
Height 12.0 meters

Chojuuoh Kiba 
Spec
Height 17.4 meters

Phoenix Alae 
Spec
Height 20.4 meters

Galfa Empire
Seventeen years before the events of the series, Emperor Galfa was a biological manager program from planet Alktos that sought to destroy human life due to how they can and have easily destroyed nature. In an effort to save the environment from human intervention, he created a vast empire of machines to exterminate human life and named the empire after himself. In the final episode Galfa reveals his true form as a six headed mechanical dragon, possibly a reference to The Beast From The Sea or Orochi. After conquering the planet he created a large moon-sized satellite resembling the Death Star that emits an energy barrier that shields the entire planet and not only houses all of his forces, but also is armed with a gravitational cannon that can destroy planets.

Main Forces
Spiral City: flight, green lasers, underside drill, storage, an energy barrier, and an AI terminal program of the same name capable of emitting electricity.
Galfa Sotai: First appear in episode 1. Powers include flight, assimilating beak and hand claws, purple energy bolts from the forehead, beak lasers, and a purple laser pistol. They are often translated as Galfa Soldiers and Robot Beasts.
Witter: First appears in episode 1. Powers include a probe called a chip in his own image that is composed of liquid metal and is armed with a laser pistol, flight, an EMP field that can shut down electronics save for larger mechanical enemies and can slowly drain their energy, a segmented body that can be used as projectiles, pink finger lasers, and can reform as long as his head is intact. He fights Dendoh in episode 21.
Absolute: First appears in episode 1. Powers include a probe called a chip in his own image that is composed of liquid metal and is armed with a laser pistol, a liquid metal body, and speed. He fights Dendoh in episode 26.
Gourmet: First appears in episode 1. Powers include a probe called a chip in his own image that is composed of liquid metal and is armed with a laser pistol, flight, a pink mouth beam that can damage objects as large as the Aldebaran, a super electromagnetic net strong enough to disrupt the use of data weapons, back missiles, and extendable arms. He fights Dendoh in episode 25.
Capture Machine Beast: First appear in episode 2. Powers include flight, a capture tentacle in each of its four underside spikes with them able to create a pink force field, and yellow lasers from the underside.
Aldebaran: Appears in episode 11 and episodes 21 to 25. Powers include light speed flight, an underside tractor beam, and Galfa Guard storage. It serves as Emperor Galfa's space cruiser later commanded by Altiar.
Lagou: Appears in episodes 15 to 19. Powers include flight, super speed, fangs, talons, consuming metal to regenerate, flames from his right head mouth, blue energy balls from his left head mouth, a whip tail, and virus spikes on the fin on his chest. It is not a machine rather it is the cyborg pet of Emperor Galfa. According to Meteo in episode 16 he is 22.2 meters tall, has a 57.5 meter wingspan, and weighs 955.5 tons.
Galfa Guard: Appear in episodes 24 and 25. Powers include flight and green palm and scalp beams.
Zero: First appears in episode 27. Powers include flight, an extendable metal staff, thirty eight green lasers around his body, holograms of his human form, and indefinite reformation. In human form he also possesses flight and his staff while also havi