[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eugene Foss

Eugene Noble Foss (September 24, 1858 – September 13, 1939) was an American politician and manufacturer from Massachusetts. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives and served as a three-term governor of Massachusetts.

Early years and business
Foss was born in West Berkshire, Vermont, a small town near the Canada–US border. His parents were George Edmund and Marcia (née Noble) Foss. Foss's father was a politically active manager at the St. Albans Manufacturing Company. The family moved to St. Albans, Vermont, when he was ten.

Foss was educated in public  schools, and then attended Franklin County Academy in St. Albans, Vermont. He enrolled in the University of Vermont. He left the university after two years. Next, he studied law but dropped out to pursue business interests.

Career 
Foss first worked as a traveling salesman, selling a lumber-drying device for the company his father managed. He also was the sales agent for B. F. Sturtevant Company of Boston, selling its mill-related equipment. His success in this role prompted Benjamin Franklin Sturtevant to offer Foss a management job in Boston in 1882. The Sturtevant began producing industrial ventilation equipment and diversified into extensive ironworks.

Foss became the company president after Sturtevant died in April 1890. Under Foss's stewardship the company grew, opening branches Berlin, Johannesburg, Paris, and St. Petersburg as the Sturtevant Engineering Company. In 1901, he moved the primary manufacturing plant to Hyde Park, one of the finest such facilities in the United States. In its building that covered ten acres, Sturtevant Company made blowers, economizers, engines, forges, motors, turbines, and more.

In addition to serving as treasurer and manager of the Sturtevant Company, he was also president and director of the Becker Milling Machine Company in Hype Park which had 500 employees in 1910. In addition, he was president of Mead-Morrison Manufacturing located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. With its 500 workers, Mead-Morrison made coal conveying and hosting machinery. He was also president of two cotton mills—the Maverick Cotton Mills in East Boston and the Burgess Mills at Pawtucket, Rhode Island which had 1,200 employees.

Foss was also president of the Bridgewater Water Company and director of the Brooklyn Heights Railroad Company, Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company, Chicago Junction Railways, the Hyde Park National Bank, Manhattan Elevated Railroad Company of New York, and the Union Stockyard Company. He was also a trustee and member of the executive committee of the Massachusetts Electric Company.

After politics, Foss returned to his former manufacturing business and also managed his real estate holdings in Boston. He expanded its production facilities to include the American Napier automobile.

Politics

U.S. Congress
In 1902, Foss ran for U.S. Congress as a progressive Republican. His main issue was a tariff reform platform, calling for "free wool, free coal, free iron, and free hides" and reciprocity with Canada. His campaign was held while there were high coal prices that had badly hurt Massachusetts. While many voters blamed coal prices on the protective tariff,  President Theodore Roosevelt attributed it to the ongoing 1902 anthracite coal strike.

Foss narrowly carried the Republican nomination in a September 24, 1902 caucus and started his campaign for control of the state party by submitting his revisionist plank at the October state party convention. His motion was defeated following a speech by Henry Cabot Lodge, urging national party unity in defense of the protective tariff. Foss lost the general election to John Andrew Sullivan.

In 1904, he was a delegate to the Republican National Convention. He ran for Congress again in 1904, with an even more embarrassing defeat. He next failed in a bid for the Republican nomination for lieutenant governor in 1906.

After Governor Eben Sumner Draper was elected in 1908, divisions within the state Republican Party deepened, especially over tariff reform. The party's position on tariffs led Foss to leave the party. In 1909, he bought his way onto the Democratic Party ticket as its nominee for lieutenant governor, but lost to the Republicans by a narrow margin.

In March 1910, Foss won a special election for United States House of Representatives, filling a vacancy caused by the death of William C. Lovering. He served until January 4, 1911, when he resigned to become governor of Massachusetts.