[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Government of Oklahoma

violation, raises revenue, makes appropriations, manages the fiscal affairs of the town, inspects the books and accounts maintained by the town treasurer, investigates municipal affairs, creates and abolishes divisions of the town government, and grants pardons for violation of municipal ordinances.

A major responsibility of a town is the construction and maintenance of streets, parks, and sewers for the town to use as well as maintaining public peace. Within each town are three major officials, either elected by the town as a whole or appointed by the board:
 The town clerk serves as the secretary of the board and keeps the journal of the proceedings of the board meetings. The clerk enrolls ordinances and resolutions passed by the board and has custody of town documents, records, and archives, as well as the town seal. It is the duty of the clerk to attest and affix the seal of the town to official town documents.
 The town treasurer maintains accounts and books of the town to show where and from what source all monies paid to him have been derived and to whom and when any monies have been paid. The treasurer deposits the daily funds received for the town in depositories as the board designates.
 The town marshal, officially known as the town chief of police, enforces municipal ordinances. The marshal appoints town police officers subject to the approval and confirmation of the board.

When a town's population reaches one thousand, the municipal incorporation remains classified as a town unless a majority of the qualified voters of the community approve of a change to city government.

Cities

In Oklahoma, a city is a highly autonomous incorporated area either contained within a county or spanning multiple counties. According to the state constitution, any community with a population of more than 2,000 can become a city. State law further stipulates that a city must have at least 1,000 inhabitants. City governments provide the same services as towns but are organized in a different manner under one of four possible governance structures.

In an aldermanic or weak mayor-council structure, the city is governed by an elected at-large mayor and two councilmembers from each ward, forming the city council. The mayor serves as the presiding officer of the council and the head of state and head of government of the city, but does not vote on the council unless to break a tie vote. The council also elects a council president that can act in the mayor's absence. As the chief executive officer of the city government, the mayor appoints city officers with the council's oversight and can remove, suspend, and directly oversee city officers and employees. The mayor prepares an annual budget and submits it to the council, advises the council on the city's finances and future needs, makes recommendations, enforces city ordinances, and maintains the public peace. The council is responsible for enacting municipal legislation, revenue and spending decisions, and creating or abolishing city divisions.

The governing body of a council-manager city is a city council composed of one councilmember from each ward of the city and one at-large councilmember. The council elects from among its members a mayor to preside over meetings and a vice-mayor to preside in his absence. Though recognized as head of state of the city, the mayor has no regular administrative duties except for signing conveyances and other written obligations of the city as the council requires. If a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor, the vice-mayor becomes the mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term. Aside from passing ordinances and raising city revenue, the council is responsible for appointing a city manager to serve as the head of government for the city. The city manager is the chief executive officer of the administrative branch of the city government. He is responsible to the council for executing the laws and administering the government of the city. Most city officials are appointed and removed by the city manager without prior council approval. The city manager also supervises and controls administrative departments, prepares an annual budget for the council to approve, and is to keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs of the city.