[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Iya Valley

ra-ke in the Genroku Era 元禄時代 (1688-1704). Bought by writer Alex Kerr in 1973, it has been the center first of a volunteer movement, and since the 2000s, NPO "Chiiori Trust" and company "Chiiori Alliance" dedicated to rural revival in Iya and elsewhere in Japan. The house was fully restored in 2012.

Houses in Ochiai Hamlet 落合集落.  Ochiai hamlet, perched on a steep hillside, includes numerous old houses dating from the 18th to the early 20th centuries. In 2005 the hamlet was designated by the national government as a Juyo Dentoteki Kenzobutsugun 重要伝統的建造物群, (abbreviated to Judenken 重伝建),  "Important Group of Traditional Structures." From 2012 to 2016, the City of Miyoshi, to which Iya belongs, restored eight houses, re-thatching the roofs, and installing modern comforts. The planning and design were done by Alex Kerr and the Chiiori staff. The  houses are now managed for the city by Chiiori Alliance as "Tougenkyo Iya" 桃源郷祖谷 ("Shangrila Iya")

Vine Bridges 

The Iya Valley is famed for its unique Vine Bridges (called "kazurabashi") that hang over the Iya River. Each is made from several tons of Wisteria floribunda vines that are gathered from the surrounding mountains. At one point in the past there were 13 of these bridges in the valley, but now only 3 remain: the main Iya-no-Kazurabashi in Nishi-Iya, and the Oku-Iya Double Vine Bridges ("Oku-Iya Niju Kazurabashi") located at the furthest end of Higashi-Iya near the base of Mt Tsurugi. The main Iya-no-Kazurabashi is 45 meters in length and is classified in Japan as an Important Tangible Folk Culture Property. Its vines are replaced every 3 years, and for safety, steel cables are laced inside the vines.

Tourism 
Tourism is quite popular in the western part of the valley (Nishi-Iya) particularly due to the historic vine bridge (kazurabashi) and hot spring baths at the large hotels in its vicinity. Yet most people (about 95%) do not get much farther than this site, mainly due to the fact that the primary access road to the rest of the valley is only one lane at times which creates insurance restrictions for most group tour buses.

However, the deeper reaches of the valley in Higashi Iya are much more preserved. For those visiting in the summer months, the pleasant temperatures are an escape from the usually oppressive heat found most other places in the country. Aside from the scenic double vine bridge deep in the valley (Oku-Iya Kazurabashi), there are historic hamlets, many thatched-roof homes, extensive mountain hiking, and one of the oddest art installations in the country.

Notes

External links

 IyaTime: Iya Valley Tourism Website in English 
 The Vine Bridges of Iya Valley
 The alluring lofty peaks of Iya Valley (The Japan Times)
 Vine Bridges cross Japan's remote Iya Valley (The Philadelphia Inquirer)
 Few Americans know about this mysterious, remote valley in southern Japan (The Washington Post)
 Off the Beaten Track on the Island of Shikoku  (Channel NewsAsia)
 In between days in Okayama, Japan (The Australian Financial Review)
 Background (Chiiori Trust)
 築300余年の茅葺き民家 (Chiiori Org)
 Your Kyoto Travel Guide(Inside Kyoto)
 「コンクリートの田舎に、誰が帰りたいの？」 古民家再生の第一人者アレックス・カーさん、地方創生を語る(Huffington Post Japan)
 Bringing an 18th-Century Farmhouse Back to Life(New York Times)
 Staying in 300-Year-Old Homes in Japan's Iya Valley(Travel Age West)

Regions of Japan
Landforms of Tokushima Prefecture
Tourist attractions in Tokushima Prefecture
Valleys of Japan
Miyoshi, Tokushima