[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Seder Olam Rabbah

it may be that Abraham ibn Yarḥi, Isaac Lattes, and Menahem Meïri, who seem to place the redaction of Seder Olam at the time when the Massektot (tractates) Derek Ereẓ Rabbah, the Derek Ereẓ Zuṭa, the Soferim, and other later treatises were composed, may have referred to the work in its present form.

Usage in later rabbinic texts
Besides directly quoting Seder Olam, the Talmud often alludes to it. A passage in Seder Olam (chapter 30) describing the 420 years of four hegemonic powers (Persian, Grecian, Hasmonean and Herodian) appears almost verbatim in the Babylonian Talmud. Often, the phrases "tanya" (= "we learned"), "tana" (= "he learned"), "tanu rabbanan" (= "our teachers learned"), and "amar mar" (= "the teacher said") introduce sentences also found in Seder Olam. In addition, many of its passages have been taken into the Mishnah without any allusion to their source. Seder Olam is not mentioned in the Jerusalem Talmud, although several passages in the latter are based on it. Finally, many of the sayings of Seder Olam have been taken into the Mekhilta, the Sifra, and the Sifre.

Acceptance of Seder Olam Rabbah's chronology was not universal. Among the premodern sources whose chronologies contradict Seder Olam Rabbah are Pirkei deRabbi Eliezer, Josippon, Midrash Lekach Tov, a source quoted by Rashi, Ibn Ezra, Baal HaMaor, Radak, Rashba, Ritva, Ralbag, and Isaac Abarbanel.

Editions
 Seder Olam Rabbah (in print) first appeared at Mantua, in 1514, together with the Seder Olam Zuta, the Megillat Ta'anit, and Abraham ibn David's Sefer ha-Ḳabbalah. It has been reedited several times since then.
 In 1577 Seder Olam Rabbah and Seder Olam Zuṭa were published in Paris, with a Latin translation by Gilbert Genebrard. The former was edited, with a Latin language translation, notes, and introduction, by John Meyer (Amsterdam, 1699).
 Commentaries on the work were written by Jacob Emden, by Elijah Wilna, and by Enoch Zundel b. Joseph.
 The three latest editions prior to 1906 are those of Ratner, A. Marx (who published the first ten chapters, basing the text upon different manuscripts and supplying it with a German language translation and an introduction; Berlin, 1903), and Jeroham Meïr Leiner (containing the commentaries of Jacob Emden and Elijah Wilna, and the editor's annotations under the title Me'r 'Ayin, Warsaw, 1904).
 
 Heinrich W. Guggenheimer (2005), Seder Olam: The Rabbinic View of Biblical Chronology, Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield ()
 Chaim Milikowsky (2013), Seder Olam: Critical Edition, Commentary, and Introduction (2 vols.), Yad Ben-Zvi: Jerusalem ()()

See also
 Missing years (Jewish calendar)
 Traditional Jewish chronology

Notes

References

Bibliography 

The Jewish Encyclopaedia cites the following works:
Fürst, in Orient, Lit. vii. 547 et seq.;
idem, Bibl. Jud. ii. 107–108;
Grätz, Gesch. 3d ed., iv. 184, and note 14;
A. Marx, introduction to his edition of the Seder Olam;
B. Ratner, Mabo leha-Seder Olam Rabbah;
Steinschneider, Cat. Bodl. cols. 1433–1434;
Weiss, Dor, ii. 257 et seq.;
Winter and Wünsche, Die Jüdische Litteratur, iii. 299 et seq.;
Zunz, G. V. p. 85.
 (Note: page 326 in this edition was p. 354 in 1991).

External links 
English translation of the Seder Olam (INCOMPLETE)
Seder Olam Rabbah - Gilbert Génébrard's Latin translation (Paris 1578)
Jewish Encyclopedia article for Seder Olam Rabbah

2nd-century books
2nd-century texts
Aggadic Midrashim
Hebrew-language chronicles
Hebrew-language religious books
History books about Judaism
Tannaitic literature
Hebrew-language literature