[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Counterpart Caribbean

Future Centre Trust (FCT), also known previously as Counterpart Caribbean, is an environmental organization based on the Caribbean island of Barbados. FCT aims to work with wider organizations such as UNCED to concentrate on economic and tourist activity in Barbados that is based on sustainable development for future generations on the island, the region and the wider world.
As of September 2009, the organisation is chaired by Mrs Vivian-Anne Gittens and pays specific attention to the education of children in the environment of Barbados.

Significance and focus
The Future Centre Trust is acknowledged in Barbados as an important group for sustainable development on the island, and is a significant contributor to political decisions over environmental issues in Barbados as they are actively involved in the process of decision-making and working on multi-sectoral committees. The Future Centre Trust is particularly involved in issues such as the regulation, proposal and planning of eco-farming, permaculture, composting to create a more efficient waste scheme on the island, alternative energy, gray water reuse, and other environmental development issues.

History
The Centre was established in 1996 following the 1994 UN Conference on Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, hosted by Barbados. It began as an initial seventeen-day exhibition entitled "Village of Hope" and it came under the patronage of the Governor General, and later under the President of the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). More than 1,000 volunteers collaborated to build the initial environmental village which displayed 3,000 exhibits during the conference. The massive success of the display which was attended by 40,000 people inspired one of the organisers, a local agronomist, the late Colin Hudson, to take the matter further and pursue a permanent environmental group and exhibition centre.  Hudson contacted the late Dame Nita Barrow to propose the new trust and it was given the seal of approval. In 1996, six trustees and a membership board of eight established the Future Centre Trust and the physical location of the Future Centre, inspired by the success of the exhibition. On establishment, its official declared mission was "to create a permanent stimulus to enhance the quality of life in Barbados and eventually establish Barbados as a role model in the fight to save our planet".

In 1998, the Future Centre conducted a project in collaboration with the Recycling Council of Alberta in Canada, a project which explored recycling technology. They have also helped funding of the Dominica Conservation Association.

In January 2000, the trust was contacted by Counterpart International, the sustainable development organization based in Washington, D.C. and an international link was created with the association. By May 2001, the trust had become fully incorporated into the Counterpart Caribbean organisation which operated for some eight further years until December 2009.

Between May 17 and 20, 2007, Counterpart Caribbean met in San Juan, Puerto Rico, with environmental groups in the wider area of the Americas with groups from North America and elsewhere in the Caribbean to discuss sustainable tourism. A number of notable figures in the Caribbean region attended the event including Chairman of the Caribbean Tourism Organisation (CTO), Senator Allen Chastanet, who is the current Minister of Tourism and Civil Aviation in St. Lucia, Puerto Rico Tourism Company's executive director, Terestella González Denton, and the president of the Caribbean Hotel Association (CHA), Peter Odle.

Together with the Centre for Resource Management and Environmental Studies (CERMES) of the University of the West Indies, and the Sustainable Grenadines Project (SGP), the Counterpart Caribbean group also successfully implemented the Grenadines Water Taxi Project transboundary planning workshop in Carriacou in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The project was primarily funded by the Global Environmental Facility, with small grants from The European Commission.

Function
The Future Centre Trust operates in what they term as the "Initiatives of Hope". The trust has a number of initiatives, ranging from weekly national and local newspaper articles, radio interviews, school seminars and focused presentations, to meetings with government councils, operatives and other NGOs at ranging levels. The organization participated in a regular column focused on environmental matters in the magazine "Select Barbados", up until its cessation of business in May 2009. The magazine was published monthly and the organization had featured in the publication for the year of April 2008 until May 2009.

The Trust relies on donations and volunteers to keep it operating and to enable projects to be developed and undertaken. They welcome contributions from individuals and corporate entities of time and/or finance as appropriate.