[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John L. Burns

ing the last two years of his life his mind failed, and his friends were unable to prevent his wandering about the country. He was found in New York City on a cold winter's night in December 1871, in a state of destitution, and was cared for and sent home, but died of pneumonia in 1872.

In memoriam

The popularity of John Burns' participation in the battle grew in the post war years. His home on Chambersburg Street was razed after his death and veterans of the battle remarked that something should be done to commemorate his services. Reacting to a proposal by a Pennsylvania chapter of the Sons of Union Veterans, the state enacted legislation to provide funds for a fitting monument. The Pennsylvania Board of Commissioners on Gettysburg Monuments desired that the monument be placed on the field where Burns had fought with the 150th Pennsylvania and 7th Wisconsin regiments, and a site was chosen on McPherson's Ridge next to Herbst Woods. Sculptor Albert G. Bureau chose to depict a defiant Burns with clenched fist, carrying his borrowed rifle. Placed upon a boulder taken from the battlefield, the monument was dedicated on July 1, 1903, on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the battle.

Burns is buried in Evergreen Cemetery in Gettysburg, one of only two graves there with permission to fly the American flag twenty-four hours per day (the other being the grave of Ginnie Wade, the only civilian killed during the battle). His original gravestone was vandalized, but replaced by the local chapter of the Grand Army of the Republic in 1902. It bears the inscription "Patriot".

Notes

References
 Martin, David G. Gettysburg July 1. rev. ed. Conshohocken, PA: Combined Publishing, 1996. .
 Petruzzi, J. David, and Steven Stanley. The Complete Gettysburg Guide. New York: Savas Beatie, 2009. .
 Pfanz, Harry W. Gettysburg – The First Day. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2001. .
 "The Old Gettysburg Hero." National Park Service.

External links
 Brief biography of John Burns at Jennie Wade House
 Gettysburg Association of Licensed Battlefield Guides description of Burns
 John Burns of Gettysburg, a poem by Bret Harte
 

1794 births
1872 deaths
United States Army personnel of the War of 1812
People from Gettysburg, Pennsylvania
People of Pennsylvania in the American Civil War
Burials at Evergreen Cemetery (Adams County, Pennsylvania)
United States Army soldiers
Deaths from pneumonia in Pennsylvania
People from Burlington, New Jersey