[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 30]
# List of Shaman King characters

flight and to cut through opponents' Over Souls. The other members include the American Bison spirit  and the coyote  who leg arm, the snake spirit  that serves as a whip and the turtle spirit  who can reflect enemy attacks. After Silva's death, his daughter Alumi inherits the Silver Arms from him.

 
 
 Ponchi is a tanuki with large testicles (it was replaced with a large stomach in the English manga), and Conchi is a kitsune fox spirit who are the familiars of Tamao Tamamura. Both Ponchi and Conchi are remnant spirits of an elite, yet Frivolous Daimyo of Japan, and a perverse Salaryman. They had just taken Tanuki and Kitsune forms respectively. While comforting them in horrendous ways, they also spoil them. At one point, Conchi had agreed to do a Lincoln commercial wherein he advertised a car. He spoke in a very low register, deep, "sexy" voice. Suggestive voice. When Tamamura heard it one day, she began sweating so profusely, his voice was so arousing. Masura and Mita could not for the life of them, figure out it was him. Mita even turned around, confused, asking, "Conchi?". After it was revealed to be his voice in the commercial, a shiver was sent down everybody's spine. Another time, Masura saw a nice heart decoration on T.V. A broken heart. As it turns out, they were a pair of lips. Ponchi's lips. Complete with impurity, imperfection, and dizziness. They've done some crazy things over the years. After Masura and Mita grow up, and relocate to the Island of Magic, Ponchi and Conchi's roles dwindle, as they are used as spies or comic relief. Ponchi eventually becomes Lucas' guardian spirit, although this doesn't work out so well. Both Ponchi and Conchi wear Mawashis; in the manga, it is because they were frightened into doing so by Matamune. The pair are two of the many guardian spirits of the Asakura family and are four hundred years old, but extremely vulgar and egotistical. When Manta's cousin, Masura, visits Conchi and Ponchi, after her parents are killed in a Shaman Fight, she appears to be riddled with anxiety, crying and shaking uncontrollably. She also worries about her sister. Conchi, in his attempts to help her, tells her not to worry about it. He also comments, about how "bad her anxiety was when he first met her". In an attempt to help cute Masura, Conchi informs her of he and Ponchi's "elite status as spirits". He also tells her, she is his "best friend", and how she can summon his full attention,  just by calling him. He does this while still wearing his erotic mawashi. Well, it isn't long before he says something inappropriate, grossing her out. Ponchi, on the other hand, takes care of little Masura's younger sister, Mita. He calms her, while she tells her thoughts through a vision. While this is happening, he advises her, not to become anxious,  and sad, admitting how goodhearted and "pure" he and Crazy Conchi are. As he says this, his revealing mawashi "kkkrrrk!"s. Ripping. His thing does not fit. Anyhow, irrelevance aside, he promises his "bestie" that he will look after her, and if she needs anything, they are there. Later, they are seen smoking outside. Masura feels awkward around them, and would much rather have Imagari, as her guardian spirit. Matamune is seen yelling at the two, for being provocative around Masura, and her sister. Manta is seen fleeing. Ponchi is revealed to have offered illegal medication to Masura. For her anxiety. Because the Asakura family has many considerably more powerful spirits at their disposal, Ponchi and Conchi have been free to act as disobediently as they want. They are cowardly and easily frightened by anyone who proves to be powerful and intimidating, especially Anna and Matamune. Despite being nuisances, they have not been sealed because they have proven themselves to be useful for tasks like spying, reconnaissance, casting curses, and simple (though not completely accurate) divinations. In combat, Conchi is able to form a bow and arrow Over Soul with Tamao's planchette while Ponchi combines with her planchette to form a cushioning shield Over Soul.