[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rajan case

ture 

The 2018 Malayalam movie Kaattu Vithachavar directed by Satheesh Paul presents investigation by a police team to disappearance of Rajan. The movie acted by Prakash Bare, Tini Tom Jayaprakash Kuloor provides a factual review of events, though the names of characters have been slightly changed.

The 1988 Malayalam film Piravi directed by Shaji N. Karun has its plotline adopted from this incident. The 2013 Malayalam film Idukki Gold references the case. Raman, one of the protagonists, throws ink at the Kerala Home Minister in protest against the Rajan case not being resolved. Malayalam movie Sahapaadi (1975), also touches the issue.
 
In 1977, the All Kerala Rajan Memorial Music Competition was started at the National Institute of Technology Calicut (then known as REC Calicut) to commemorate Rajan's life. Every year since 1987, the Institute conducts their annual cultural festival Ragam in memory of Rajan. In 2006, Ragam festival started with an audio message delivered by Rajan's father Eachara Warrier.

C. R. Omanakuttan has written a book named Shavamtheenikal which is an expose of the brutality involved in the incident. In 2006, Ormakal Zindabad (Memories live long), directed by G. Ajayan, was staged in certain places in Kerala, based on the custodial death of Rajan. Leading characters Jayaram Padikkal and Rajan were portrayed by Salih Rawther and Shabu Madhavan respectively.

The 2021 Tamil movie Jai Bhim, directly references the Rajan case as an example of a habeas corpus wherein the rare occurrence of a cross examination in a high court as grounds for not producing a detainee by the state police is permitted.

See also 
 Naxal Varghese

References

External links 
Articles T. P. Gopinath Pinarayi ambushed by Rajan case – Karunakaran is also victim!
Ebook on Rajan by his father
Revised link of the "Ebook on Rajan by his father"
PDF-Ebook(English)

1970s missing person cases
1976 murders in India
1976 in Indian law
Crime in Kerala
Deaths in police custody in India
Enforced disappearances in India
History of Kerala (1947–present)
Male murder victims
Missing person cases in India
People murdered in Kerala
Political history of Kerala
Indians imprisoned during the Emergency (India)