[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kharkiv National University of Economics

Simon Kuznets Kharkiv National University of Economics () is the largest economic higher educational and research institution in the eastern part of Ukraine. The university was established in 1912 and was named after American economist Simon Kuznets, its noted alumnus, in 2013.

KhNUE provides a full range of undergraduate and postgraduate educational programs implementing multistage training, retraining and upgrading of qualification in 26 specialties in economy and business, management, public administration, informatics and cybernetics, computer sciences, publishing business and printing industry, tourism, international relations.

History

Foundation 
The initiative to create a special economic educational institution in Kharkiv was raised in 1888 by merchant and commerce-adviser Nikolay Orlov. It was promoted as a patriotic act timed in honor of the miraculous salvation of the royal family in the train accident at the Borky station near Kharkov. The Kharkiv merchant society established and inaugurated in 1893 the School of Commerce named after Alexander III. The school had eight years special secondary training curriculum. Next public initiative conceived by university professor N. Paliyenko resulted with opening of the Evening Higher Courses of Commerce in October (24) 10, 1912. The Higher Courses provided four years training in fields of enterprise and economy, local government, bank and finance, industrial management. After the Courses had received the special building and had increased its student body up to 1226 with the nearest planned quantity of 4000, in 1916 State Duma granted it with the status and rights of a governmental higher educational institution – Kharkiv Institute of Commerce. Within 1918-1921 Simon Kuznets was a student at the institute and had studied basic economics there.

1920s-1980s 
During the subsequent reorganizations, partly provoked by the anti-Soviet activity of the institute's faculty, the academy was initially transformed into the Kharkov Institute of National Economy (1921), and then, in 1930, divided into relatively small branch-wise colleges. Especially, its Department of Industry became the Kharkov Engineering-Economic Institute designed to train the specialist, so-called “engineer-economists” (industrial economists) for the Ukrainian heavy industry: mining, metallurgy, basic chemical and coke-chemical, machine-building factories and R&D facilities. Following the Soviet times tradition, October 1, 1930, marked as the official founding date of the university.
The institute rendered wide advisory help to the industrial enterprises in reconstruction, technological upgrading, increasing of labour productivity and economic efficiency, cost-effectiveness analysis. During this period, the institute had been creating advanced system of retraining and improvement of professional skill of the middle and chief executive personnel of the industry's management. In 1950s professor Evsei Liberman organized and guided the research laboratory. Its research was generalized as a basis of economic reform in 1965 in the USSR. Since the early 1960s the institute also taught specialists for designing and maintaining the automated industrial control systems. Since the 1980s, also – the specialists in foreign trade and international economics.

Today 
After general curriculum of the Institute had been basically revised, in 1994 Institute was granted with the highest Level IV government's accreditation and on 20 April 1994 was transformed into the Kharkiv State University of Economics. Since August 21, 2004 – the university was awarded the status of National; on October 14, 2013 – named after Simon Kuznets. In 2007 the university was conferred on the Order of Friendship of Vietnam.
Since 2000 the university have being multiply expanded its operating scale in educational and research activity. The university occupies leading position among economic universities in Eastern Ukraine region with 710 members of academic staff and more than 12,000 students in 2011. There have been reestablished cohesion between academic and research activity that had been extrinsic for the soviet-type educational system. The university was a pioneer institution in Ukraine in implementation of Bologna educational standards, introduction of variable studying courses as a part of curriculum, development of interactive learning technologies, broadening of international cooperation. Furthermore, the Universities campus is being underwent the large program of reconstruction resulted in the considerable growth of the actual space of its lecture-halls, labs, dormitories and sports facilities.