[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Giuseppe Giannini

served as coach of Romanian side Argeş Piteşti, but was axed in October after nine consecutive defeats, and replaced by Dorinel Munteanu. In September 2007 he was unveiled as new manager of Massese, another Serie C1 club, being however sacked in February 2008 following disagreements with the board.

In July 2008 he was unveiled as new head coach of Lega Pro Prima Divisione team Gallipoli. In his first season in Salento, Giannini guided Gallipoli to triumph in the league, thus winning a historical first promotion in Serie B for the club. A few days later, however, Giannini and Gallipoli announced to have parted company, also because of financial issues involving the club and some rumoured interest for Giannini from other clubs. Nevertheless, Giannini was then confirmed as coach by new Gallipoli owner D'Odorico.

Despite an impressive first half of season with Gallipoli, who was hailed as one of the main league surprises, Giannini resigned from his managerial post on 8 February 2010 following a 2–2 home draw to Grosseto characterized by the team players stopping for 40 seconds and turning faces towards the stadium stands as a form of protest for not having been paid any monthly salaries since October 2009. At the end of the first half, Giannini was sent off due to protests, and reached the stands in the second half, where he heatedly confronted with chairman D'Odorico and announced his resignation, together with all members of his coaching staff, immediately after the end of the game. However, Giannini withdrew his resignation only two days later following a conciliatory meeting with D'Odorico.

After a string of unimpressive results, Giannini stepped down again on 22 March together with his aides Roberto Corti, Fabrizio Carafa and Franco Mandarino, defining his resignations as "irrevocable".

In June 2010 he agreed a two-year contract as head coach of fallen giants Verona, with the aim to guide the scaligeri to promotion from the Lega Pro Prima Divisione league.

On 30 October 2011, he was appointed head coach of Serie B club Grosseto. He left his post later on 3 December, after a 2–1 win at Pescara (the third consecutive away win during his stint as Grosseto boss), citing his strained relationship with chairman Piero Camilli as the main reason behind his choice.
On 6 July 2013, Giannini was officially appointed as the manager of the Lebanese National Team by the helps from Manchester City manager and his friend Roberto Mancini, where he will try to continue the historic success of Lebanon after they reached the final round of qualification for the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.

He started his career during the 2015 AFC Asian Cup qualification. Under his management, Lebanon draw twice against Kuwait. He made everyone suspected on his talents after his team lost 1–4 to Iran in Beirut, even he said that only 100 spectators cheer for Lebanon in Camille Chamoun Stadium. But he almost made the Lebanese dream come true after his team slaughtered Thailand a 5–2 win right in Bangkok, and if they had not been suffered a goal down from Adisak Kraisorn with China's penalty goal, Lebanon would have been in Australia.

His most memorable match was against Olympic Brazil which his talent was proven by two goals led by Mohammed Ghaddar and Hassan Maatouk after Ademilson took the lead for Brazil. His team drew 2–2 because of an offside goal from Vinícius Araújo.

He returned into management in June 2017, being appointed head coach of recently relegated Serie D club Racing Roma. A few days later, after Racing Roma owner acquired the ownership of Serie C club Fondi, he was however named new head coach for the third tier club. Giannini's stint at Fondi was however short-lived, as he was removed from his position on 19 September 2017 due to poor results.

Career statistics
Source:

1Domestic cups include the Coppa Italia and Austrian Cup
2European competitions include the European Cup, Cup Winners' Cup and UEFA Cup
3Other tournaments include the Supercoppa Italiana and Austrian Supercup

Honours

Player
Roma
Serie A:  1982–83
Coppa Italia: 1983–84, 1985–86, 1990–91

Sturm Graz
Austrian Supercup: 1996
Austrian Cup: 1997

Manager
Gallipoli
Lega Pro Prima Divisione: 2008–09
Supercoppa di Lega di Prima Divisione: 2009

Individual
UEFA European Championship Team of the Tournament: 1988
A.S. Roma Hall of Fame: 2013

Orders
 5th Class / Knight: Cavaliere Ordine al Merito della Repubblica Italiana: 1991

References