[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Hogle Zoo

g health problems. Chinook was one of the most prolific polar bears in North American zoo history giving birth to a total of ten cubs. Currently she is survived by Denali who lives at the Sapparo Zoo in Japan and Kiska at the ABQ BioPark. However, many of her grandchildren still populate U.S. Zoos. 

In 2003, Andy died from an intestinal blockage after swallowing a glove that was thrown into his exhibit. The blockage caused a rupture in the intestinal wall, leading to leakage of intestinal contents and fatal blood poisoning. The zoo would not go on to bring polar bears back into their collection until the opening of Rocky Shores in 2012. 

In July 2002, Dale, a female black bear, went on display in Bear Grotto. She was an orphan that was rescued from Minnesota. In 2003, Cubby, a male black bear, moved to Hogle Zoo from the Chahinkapa Zoo in North Dakota. Then in 2004, Tuff, a male black bear, came to live at Hogle Zoo. Tuff was born at a private breeder's farm in Missouri. He was then sold illegally. However, he was confiscated by officials and moved to a licensed facility. Tuff moved to Hogle Zoo shortly after. All of the black bears were moved to the Oregon Zoo because Hogle Zoo was going to start construction on their Rocky Shores exhibit.

Mountain Habitat (1962)
In July 1962, construction of a mountain habitat was completed in between the Bear and Cougar Grottos for aoudad, also known as Barbary sheep. The exhibit was originally home to five members of the sheep native to Northern Africa - one male and four females. They arrived via rail from Fresno, California, where they were purchased for $50 each. The exhibit was home to a plethora of animals over the years before its demolition in 2010.

In 1974, Hogle Zoo received its first two stone sheep, a subspecies of Dall sheep found in Canada and popular in big game hunting. The pair, only a year old upon their arrival, were born at the Okanagan Game Farm where then zoo director LaMar Farnsworth had a connection. At the time of their display, Hogle Zoo was the only zoo in the United States to exhibit the subspecies. The herd, which began to grow in size through births and other acquisitions, took up residence in the Mountain Habitat. When the zoo's herd began to die off, the final member, an elderly male affectionately named "Stone Sheep", was moved to the desert bighorn sheep exhibit on South Rim. The exhibit then became a summer habitat for the zoo's Aldabra tortoises. 

Chacoan peccaries were the last species to inhabit the exhibit before it was demolished for the construction of Rocky Shores in 2010. The four new peccaries made their debut in 2004 on the Fourth of July. The all male group consisted of Walker and Palito from the Saint Louis Zoo as well as Chili Pepper and Habanero from the Phoenix Zoo. The four males moved to the Woodland Edge exhibit in Discoveryland in 2010 before permanently leaving the zoo's collection in 2012 when construction began on the African Savanna.

African Savanna (1986)

While on a book tour for her text on the chimpanzees of Gombe, famed anthropologist Jane Goodall made a stop at Utah's Hogle Zoo to dedicate the zoo's new African Savanna exhibit on April 29, 1986. Joining her for the ribbon cutting ceremony was Utah Governor Norman H. Bangerter. In her remarks, Goodall commended the exhibit, noting her approval of the animals' ability to roam in an open space in social groupings. 

The African Savanna covered one acre of the northwest section of the zoo, replacing chain-linked yards that once held many species including blackbuck, common eland, sitatunga, and wallaroo. The tiered exhibit featured three habitats for African ungulates and birds. Boma (enclosure) inspired fencing and a rondavel inspired indoor holding area added to the exhibit's authenticity. The $250,000 exhibit was funded through private donations and membership subscriptions. The African Savanna was demolished in 2010, when construction began on Rocky Shores at the west end of the zoo.

The African Savanna was split into three habitats. The Lower Savannah habitat was built as a new exhibit for the zoo's African antelope, including South Africa's springbok and Thomson's gazelle. New species were also added to the collection in the new African Savanna including addra gazelle and waterbuck. Cuvier's gazelle were added in 2002, and the critically endangered addax was added to the exhibit in 2003. The Lower Savannah habitat was visible via an outlook that extended from the path towards the old Giraffe Building as well as an elevated walkway that provided a birds-eye-view of the habitat.