[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Craig Foster

ogies); and the 2018 World Cup in Russia (at the 2019 Logies). In 2015 Foster and Les Murray also accepted the Logie in 2015 for their coverage the 2014 World Cup by The World Game. (One source reports a win for the 2005 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Uruguay in Sydney, but this is not confirmed.)

In 2019, the Foster was recognised by the Australian Financial Review as a "True Australian Leader", while The Sydney Morning Herald listed him as one of the "People that Defined 2019".

In 2020 he was a finalist in the Australian Human Rights Commission's Human Rights Medal, for his work in advocating for Hakeem al-Araibi in 2019, and in the same year was awarded the NSW Humanitarian Award (awarded during Refugee Week each year by the NSW Service for the Treatment and Rehabilitation of Torture and Trauma Survivors) for his work with sport and human rights, and the Abyssinian Medal, as part of the 14th Australian Muslim Achievement Awards (AMAA)  founded and hosted by the Mission of Hope and led by Hanan Dover.

He was a finalist for NSW Australian of the Year in 2021.

Artist Julian Meagher decided that he would paint a portrait of Foster each year until it was shortlisted for the prestigious Archibald Prize. His first attempt in 2020 did not make it, but in 2021 his portrait, named Fozzy, made the shortlist.

In 2021, Foster was appointed a Member of the Order of Australia (AM) for significant service to multiculturalism, to human rights and refugee support organisations, and to football.

Addresses
 2019: Foster gave the opening address for the UN's Centre for Sport and Human Rights Conference in Geneva
 2019: Higginbotham Lecture for RMIT University in Melbourne
 March 2022: Australian National University's "Australia and the World Lecture" (postponed from 2021), at the National Press Club of Australia
 April 2022: UniSA Nelson Mandela Lecture, presented by the Hawke Centre at Adelaide Convention Centre (postponed from 2021) in Adelaide.

Publications
Foster is a former columnist for the Sun Herald, and writes for The Sydney Morning Herald, The Age, The Guardian, and other publications.

Monographs include:
 
  (Subtitled: How people power challenged two monarchies, a military junta and football's governing body FIFA... and won.)

Personal life
Foster is married to Lara Foster, and they have three children, Jake, Jemma, and Charli. He wrote a dedication to them in Fighting for Hakeem.

He says he is an introvert, who does not relish social situations.

References

External links

 
 
 

1969 births
Living people
Australian men's soccer players
Australian expatriate men's soccer players
Australia men's international soccer players
National Soccer League (Australia) players
Adelaide City FC players
Crystal Palace F.C. players
Marconi Stallions FC players
North West Sydney Spirit FC players
Sportspeople from Lismore, New South Wales
Portsmouth F.C. players
Sydney United 58 FC players
Australian television presenters
Australian soccer commentators
Caroline Springs George Cross FC players
Australian Institute of Sport soccer players
Singapore FA players
Men's association football midfielders
Members of the Order of Australia
Recipients of the Australian Sports Medal
Expatriate men's footballers in Malaysia
Australian expatriate sportspeople in Malaysia
1996 OFC Nations Cup players
1997 FIFA Confederations Cup players
2000 OFC Nations Cup players
Australian republicans
Sportsmen from New South Wales
Soccer players from New South Wales