[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Anioma people

Anioma people are one of the Igbo groups in present day Delta State, Nigeria. 
They encompass the communities which span across the 9 northeastern Local Government Areas of Delta State. They occupy the Delta North Senatorial District, which consists of the Enuani (Oshimili/ Aniocha), and Ukwuani/ Ndokwa geographical and linguistic zones of Delta State.

Anioma means "Good Land" in Igbo language.  
An ancient and industrious nation, Anioma is estimated to have a total population of approximately 1.8 million people. The largest Anioma settlement and urban area is the Delta State Capital Territory which incorporates the city of Asaba along the Niger with Okpanam and Igbuzor and surrounding communities.

Geography 
The Anioma are located on the floodplains and hills of the West Basin of Niger River within the present Delta state of Nigeria, it encompasses a land mass of about 6,300 km2 . Politically, Anioma is often referred to as Delta North, as against the other peoples known as the Delta South and Delta Central in the same state. Anioma is bounded on the East by Anambra State, south-east by Imo and Rivers States, south Bayelsa State, south-west by Isoko, west by Urhobo people, north-west by Edo State and north by Kogi State. Anioma may therefore be regarded as highly contiguous to very many neighbours ethnic groups. 
The people have drawn their culture and experiences as a result of lying contiguous to numerous other ethnicities and communities which characterizes  Anioma as a relatively peaceful region.

There are 25 Local government areas in Delta State, and the nine underneath make up the Anioma region:

 Aniocha North
 Aniocha South
 Ika South
 Ika North-East
 Ndokwa East
 Ndokwa West
 Oshimili North
 Oshimili South
 Ukwuani

Language 
Anioma people speak Igbo language with different dialects. These dialects include the Enuani dialect spoken in Ibusa, Ogwashi-Uku, Asaba, parts of Igbodo, Illah, Issele, Idumuje, Onicha etc.), the Ika dialect (Agbor, Umunede, Owa etc.) with heavy influence from the Bini language. Ukwuani-Aboh dialect of the Ukwuani-Aboh-Ndoni cluster mostly spoken by the peoples of Ndokwa. There are minority Anioma peoples in Edo state of Nigeria (Igbanke), Anambra state (Onitsha, Ozobulu, Obosi, Oraifite) Imo state (Oguta), Rivers state (Ndoni, Ogba) etc. Igala is spoken in majority by the indigenous Igala communities of Ebu on the border with Edo State and Umuebu in Ukwuani.

List of Anioma towns and communities 
Anioma towns and communities alphabetically arranged below:

Abah, Abala  Anikoko, Abavo, Abi, Abodei, Aboh, Adai, Adonta, Afor, Agbor, Akakpan-Isumpe, Ankara, Akoku, Akuku-Akumazi, Akumazi-Umuocha, Akwuku-Igbo, Alasime, Alidinma, Alihagu, Amai, Anakwa, Anifekide, Aninwalo, Aninwama-Jeta,  Aniofu, Aniogo, Anioma, Anuregu, Anwai, Asaba, Asaba-Ase,  Asaba-Ubulu, Ashaka,  Ashama, Atuma, Atuma-Iga, Azagba-Ogwashi, Azagba-Ubieni, Ebedi, Ebu, Edo-Ogwashi, Egbudu-Akah, Egbudu-Ogwashi, Ejeme-Agbor, Ejeme-Aniogo, Ejeme-Unor, Ekpecho, Ekpon, Ekwuemusana, Emu, Emuhu, Etua Etiti, Etua Ukpo, Ewulu, Ezi, Eziokpor, Ezionum, Ibodoni, Ibrode, Ibusa, Idumuesah, Idumuje-Ugboko, Idumuje-Unor, Idumu-Ogo, Igbanke, Igbodo, Igbuku, Illah, Isa-Ogwashi, Iselegu, Isheagu, Isikiti-Ishiagu, Issele-Azagba, Issele-Mkpitime, Issele-Uku, Isumpe,  Kwale, Mbiri, Ndemiri,  Ndokwa, Abbi, Inam-Abbi, Eziunm, Nkpolenyi, Nsukwa, Obeti, Obi Anyima, Obi Umutu, Obi, Obiaruku, Obikwele, Obinomba, Obior, Obodo-Eti, Obomkpa, Ogbe, Ogode, Ogume, Ogwashi-Uku, Oko Anala, Oko/Ogbele, Oko-Amakom, Okotomi, Okpa, Okpanam, Okwe, Oligbo, Oligbo, Olor-Usisa, Olu-Odu, Omaja,  Onicha Olona, Onicha-Ugbo, Onicha-Uku, Onitsha-Ukwuani, Onogbokor, Onuseti, Onya, Oolor-Ogwashi, Otolokpo, Otulu, Owa Nta, Owa-Abi, Owa-Alero,  Owa-Ofie, Owa-Oyibo, Owerri-Olubor, Ubulubu, Ubulu-Okiti, Ubulu-Okiti, Ubulu-Ukwu, Ubulu-Unor, Udumeje, Ugboba, Ugbodu, Ugbolu, Ugiliamai, Ukala-Okpunor, Ukala-Okwute, Ukwuani, Ukwunzu, Ukwu-Oba, Umuabu, Umu-Ebu Adonishaka, Umukwem, Umukwota, Umunede, Umuolu, Umute, Umutu, Unor, Unor, Unuaja, Ushie, Usisa, Utagba-Ogbe, Utagba-Unor, Utchi, Ute Aru, Ute Enugu, Utegbeje, Ute-Okpu, Utuoku.

Notable Anioma people