[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Company (miniseries)

oss, scoffs at the notion, but the Bay of Pigs Invasion is a disaster, and Jack barely escapes with his life. Angry that the CIA and the President let the rebels down, Jack nearly resigns, but Leo, who now has a son with Adele, talks him out of it. Jack is awarded a Distinguished Intelligence Medal.

In 1975, Leo is on vacation with his family, Yevgeny visits his dying father along with a disillusioned Philby in Russia, and Jack is working to exfiltrate Kukushkin, who promises information on Sasha. Angleton feels that Kukushkin may be legitimate, but his obsession with Sasha and Soviet infiltration into the CIA has begun to cripple the Company. Using information gathered over decades, including Kukushkin's new data and clues from the liquor store where Yevgeny was nearly caught, Angleton divines a system of masterful rhetoric to reveal the mole: Leo.

Angleton has Leo kidnapped, interred, and systematically interrogated about his socialist father. Jack cannot believe his best friend may be responsible for Lili, Hungary, and the Bay of Pigs. When Jack visits him, Leo proclaims his innocence and suggests that Kukushkin must be a disinformation agent dispatched by the KGB. Mirroring Leo's prediction, Kukushkin returns to the Soviet Union, where he is allegedly shot as a traitor. When Kukushkin turns up alive, CIA Director Colby exonerates Leo, but Angleton furiously insists that Starik manipulated the Kukushkin defection so that the CIA would believe Leo is innocent. Leo is freed and Angleton is forced to resign, berating his superiors that the KGB's wilderness of mirrors has falsely convinced them they are winning the Cold War.

In 1987, Torriti has retired, and Adele has committed suicide. Analysts present Jack with an old lead linking a 1950s Moscow Radio broadcast to KGB operatives and so Jack enlists the help of a dying Angleton, who surmises that the broadcast is part of Kholstomer. After a sting, Jack comes face to face with Yevgeny, who made liquor deliveries not only to Philby but also to Leo. When Jack confronts Leo with that information at his home, Leo shoots him, admitting that he joined the KGB in college and that Adele killed herself when she found out before phoning an ambulance for Jack and fleeing. While Jack recovers, Kholstomer leads to the 1987 stock market crash. The CIA's foreknowledge helps mitigate the damage, but the plan's biggest failure results from Starik underestimating the strength of the US economy.

In 1991, Jack offers Yevgeny an early release from prison if he reveals Leo's location by telling him that Starik sent Azalia to the gulag, but he still has time to find her since the Soviet Union is collapsing. Yevgeny tracks down Leo and warns him before passing his whereabouts to Jack. Yevgeny visits with a ruined and senile Starik and finally reconnects with Azalia. Jack travels to Moscow to kill Leo but stops himself moments before Leo recognizes him. Back in DC, Torriti and Jack reminisce over their work in the Cold War, with Jack expressing misgivings over which side was good or bad. Torriti insists the CIA were the good guys, concluding with the phrase "we won, didn't we?"

Cast
Chris O'Donnell as Jack McAuliffe
Michael Keaton as James Jesus Angleton / "Mother"
Alfred Molina as Harvey Torriti / "The Sorcerer"
Tom Hollander as Kim Philby
Rory Cochrane as Yevgeny Tsipin
Alessandro Nivola as Leo Kritzky
Ulrich Thomsen as Starik Zhilov
Natascha McElhone as Elizabet Nemeth
Alexandra Maria Lara as Lili / Helga
Ted Atherton as Frank Wisner / "The Wizard"
Cedric Smith as DCI Allen Dulles
Rick Roberts as DCI William Colby
Simon Callow as MI6 liaison officer Elihu
Antony Sher as Ezra ben Ezra, the Mossad-CIA liaison / "The Rabbi"
Mišel Matičević as Arpad Zelk, the Hungarian poet

Similarities to real life
The Soviet spy Tsipin uses the code word "Alice in Wonderland", from the book by Lewis Carroll. Tsipin uses the aliases Eugene "Dodgson" and Gene "Lutwidge". Lewis Carroll's real name is Charles Lutwidge Dodgson. Tsipin's superior, "Starik" the KGB general, takes posed photos of young girls as a hobby, just like Dodgson.

The DVD set came with two disks. The second disk had a "Covert Mission," to be completed by placing the disk in a computer's DVD drive "to receive instructions to complete your mission."  After searching the different directories, the player could find a folder "PC_Clickme," which linked to a website, www.thecompanyspygame.com.   The domain was abandoned in 2011.

Filming
Summer-Fall 2006: filming in Toronto and Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
Fall-Winter 2006: filming in central Budapest, District VIII.
Spring 2007: filming in Añasco, Puerto Rico.

Home media
The Company was released on 23 October 2007 on both high-definition Blu-ray Disc and standard-definition DVD.

References

External links 
 
 The Company on TNT