[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Siping Campaign

e defenders could no longer launch anymore counterattacks to the smallest scale, they were still able to put up a good defensive fight in their fortifications, but as time dragged on, even the defenders themselves begun to have serious doubts how long before the city would fall into the enemy hands.

The communists were overconfident that the city would fall for sure, and their New China News Agency had already issued a press release at the time, claiming that "…After 12 days of fierce fighting, the enemy (nationalists) had suffered over 16,000 casualties and remaining survivors had nowhere to flee.  The majority of the Siping had been under our (communist) control, and Chiang's army had been annihilated, and our troops (communists) were expanding the military success…".  On June 28, 1947, the communist commander Chen Yi (communist) even sent a telegraph congratulating Lin Biao for taking the city.  Nothing could be further from the truth as the situation suddenly turned drastically in nationalist favor: on June 29, 1947, the nationalist reinforcement rapidly approached the city thanks to their mechanization, the nationalist 93rd Army approached the city on the same day Lin Biao received the telegraph from Chen Yi (communist), while on June 29, 1947, the nationalist New 6th Army took Benxi and from there pushed toward Siping (city), while the nationalist 53rd Army on the left of the New 6th Army also pushed toward Siping (city) in unison.  The highly mechanized nationalist armies was able to bypass the enemy and thus not only the nationalist reinforcement had avoided been ambushed by the enemy, now the enemy force attacking the city was threatened.  The table had turned for the enemy.

Lin Biao's choice was clear, on June 30, 1947, he ordered a general withdraw that concluded the first stage of Siping Campaign.  The exhausted defenders had no strength left to give any chase and the nationalist reinforcement did not pursuit the enemy either after reaching the city, and thus did not see any action, just like the five enemy armies to the south of the city originally planned to ambush them.  The nationalists suffered over 19,000 casualties while the communist suffered over 13,000 casualties.  The nationalists had successfully beaten back the enemy and held the city.  In addition to the enemy's grave underestimation of the defenders' strength, the associating indecisiveness of Lin Biao also contributed to the nationalist success at the first stage of the campaign:  Lin Biao was trying to increase the gain of the communist Summer Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China by deploying seventeen divisions to the south of Siping (city) in the hope of ambush nationalist reinforcement, but this had not materialized.  The seven remaining communist divisions were simply not enough to take on the five technically superior nationalist Divisions defending the city.  Furthermore, only after suffering heavy losses, did the two more divisions were redeployed to join the fight, but by then the communists were unable to achieve any numerical superiority at all, following the withdraw of four divisions and earlier heavy losses.  However, the communists would not forget their goal and they would be back with vengeance, as well as the valuable experience learned from this first attempt.  For the nationalists, the city was still in their hands, but the nationalist original plan to fight a decisive battle to annihilate the enemy at the gate of Siping (city) was equally spoiled by Lin Biao's wise and timely retreat, and thus the first stage of the campaign ended in a stalemate.