[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Beta decay

ed isotope is the odd-proton odd-neutron nuclide , which undergoes all three types of beta decay (,  and electron capture) with a half-life of .

Conservation rules for beta decay

Baryon number is conserved

where
  is the number of constituent quarks, and
  is the number of constituent antiquarks.

Beta decay just changes neutron to proton or, in the case of positive beta decay (electron capture) proton to neutron so the number of individual quarks doesn't change. It is only the baryon flavor that changes, here labelled as the isospin.

Up and down quarks have total isospin  and isospin projections

All other quarks have .

In general

Lepton number is conserved

so all leptons have assigned a value of +1, antileptons −1, and non-leptonic particles 0.

Angular momentum
For allowed decays, the net orbital angular momentum is zero, hence only spin quantum numbers are considered.

The electron and antineutrino are fermions, spin-1/2 objects, therefore they may couple to total  (parallel) or  (anti-parallel).

For forbidden decays, orbital angular momentum must also be taken into consideration.

Energy release
The  value is defined as the total energy released in a given nuclear decay. In beta decay,  is therefore also the sum of the kinetic energies of the emitted beta particle, neutrino, and recoiling nucleus. (Because of the large mass of the nucleus compared to that of the beta particle and neutrino, the kinetic energy of the recoiling nucleus can generally be neglected.) Beta particles can therefore be emitted with any kinetic energy ranging from 0 to . A typical  is around 1 MeV, but can range from a few keV to a few tens of MeV.

Since the rest mass of the electron is 511 keV, the most energetic beta particles are ultrarelativistic, with speeds very close to the speed of light.
In the case of Re, the maximum speed of the beta particle is only 9.8% of the speed of light.

The following table gives some examples:

β− decay
Consider the generic equation for beta decay
  →  +  + .
The  value for this decay is
,
where  is the mass of the nucleus of the  atom,  is the mass of the electron, and  is the mass of the electron antineutrino. In other words, the total energy released is the mass energy of the initial nucleus, minus the mass energy of the final nucleus, electron, and antineutrino. The mass of the nucleus  is related to the standard atomic mass  by

That is, the total atomic mass is the mass of the nucleus, plus the mass of the electrons, minus the sum of all electron binding energies  for the atom. This equation is rearranged to find , and  is found similarly. Substituting these nuclear masses into the -value equation, while neglecting the nearly-zero antineutrino mass and the difference in electron binding energies, which is very small for high- atoms, we have

This energy is carried away as kinetic energy by the electron and antineutrino.

Because the reaction will proceed only when the  value is positive, β− decay can occur when the mass of atom  is greater than the mass of atom .

β+ decay
The equations for β+ decay are similar, with the generic equation
  →  +  + 
giving

However, in this equation, the electron masses do not cancel, and we are left with

Because the reaction will proceed only when the  value is positive, β+ decay can occur when the mass of atom  exceeds that of  by at least twice the mass of the electron.

Electron capture
The analogous calculation for electron capture must take into account the binding energy of the electrons. This is because the atom will be left in an excited state after capturing the electron, and the binding energy of the captured innermost electron is significant. Using the generic equation for electron capture
  +  →  + 
we have

which simplifies to

where  is the binding energy of the captured electron.

Because the binding energy of the electron is much less than the mass of the electron, nuclei that can undergo β+ decay can always also undergo electron capture, but the reverse is not true.

Beta emission spectrum

Beta decay can be considered as a perturbation as described in quantum mechanics, and thus Fermi's Golden Rule can be applied. This leads to an expression for the kinetic energy spectrum  of emitted betas as follows:

where  is the kinetic energy,  is a shape function that depends on the forbiddenness of the decay (it is constant for allowed decays),  is the Fermi Function (see below) with Z the charge of the final-state nucleus,  is the total energy,  is the momentum, and  is the Q value of the decay. The kinetic energy of the emitted neutrino is given approximately by  minus the kinetic energy of the beta.

As an example, the beta decay spectrum of 210Bi (originally called RaE) is shown to the right.

Fermi function