[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Renewable energy in the European Union

loyment in the renewable energy industry has however fallen every year since 2011, reaching 34,300 jobs in 2016, according to annual data from the International Renewable Energy Agency. IRENA says economic crises and adverse policy conditions led to reduced investments in renewable energy in the EU.

In 2012, the use of intermittent renewable energy caused, according to the German newspaper Der Spiegel, increasing electricity prices and grid instability induced power outages, created by renewable energy usage. It is also claimed by German heavy industry spokesmen that this has forced their industries to close, move overseas, and resulted in the loss of German heavy industry jobs.

Fuel costs 
In 2010 renewables avoided €30bn in imported fuel costs.  In 2010 EU supported renewable energy with €26bn.

Statistics

Installed wind power capacity

Photovoltaics

As of the end of 2013, cumulative capacity of solar PV accounted for almost 79 gigawatts and generated more than 80 terawatt-hours in the European Union. Including non-EU countries, a total of 81.5 GW had been installed. Although Europe has lost its leadership in solar deployment, the continent still accounts for about 59 percent of global installed photovoltaics. Solar PV covered 3 percent of the electricity demand and 6 percent of the peak electricity demand in 2013. Grid-connected photovoltaic power systems account for more than 99 percent of the overall capacity, while stand-alone photovoltaic power system have become insignificant.

Source: EUROBSER'VER (Observatoire des énergies renouvelables) Photovoltaic Barometer - installations 2014

Solar heating

Biofuels

See also

List of renewable energy topics by country and territory
Climate change in Europe
Desertec
Economy of the European Union
EKOenergy ecolabel for energy
Energy Cities
Energy Community
Energy efficiency in Europe (study)
European Commissioner for Environment, Oceans and Fisheries
Eugene Green Energy Standard
Energy policy of the European Union
European Renewable Energy Council
European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register
Fraunhofer Society
Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme
Renewable Energy Directive 2018
REN21
Transport in the European Union
EurObserv'ER

References

External links

Eurostat - Statistics Explained - Renewable energy statistics
Europe's Energy Portal European platform for energy efficiency and renewable energy.
Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources
ManagEnergy, for energy efficiency and renewable energies at the local and regional level.
Reegle: Information Gateway For Renewable Energy And Energy Efficiency
All EurObserv'ER barometers - The state of renewable energies in Europe

Organizations
European Renewable Energy Council
European Forum for Renewable Energy Sources "Members of Parliament for a Sustainable Energy Future"
European Federation of Regional Energy and Environment Agencies (FEDARENE).
European Future Energy Forum
European Commission-Energy

Further reading
 Joanna Krzeminska, Are Support Schemes for Renewable Energies Compatible with Competition Objectives? An Assessment of National and Community Rules, Yearbook of European Environmental Law (Oxford University Press), Volume VII, Nov. 2007, p. 125