[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Insurgency in the Preševo Valley

rbian forces captured Oraovica although UÇPMB attacked them at 02.15 PM.

Deabtes were high on how many casualties there were. Yugoslav troops sustained no casualties. While the UCPMB had 2 casualties. Yugoslavia claims that 14-20 were killed, 8 wounded and that 80 were captured.

Končulj Agreement 

The Demilitarization Statement, or the Končulj Agreement, was a ceasefire signed between the FR Yugoslavia and the UÇPMB on May 20, 2001. The Končulj Agreement was the first agreement related to this part of Serbia (Preševo, Medveđa, and Bujanovac). The agreement ended the conflicts that spilled over from Kosovo, with political representatives from the local Albanians, Serbia and Kosovo committing to demilitarization.

It sought for the full demilitarization, demobilization and disarmament of the Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac (UCPMB). It also calls for integration of ethnic Albanians into governmental, civic, economic and police structures, and support from the international community to implement the so-called Covic Plan. The agreement was signed by Serbian president Vojislav Koštunica and Shefket Musliu, the highest UÇPMB commander who surrendered.

According to the agreement, Yugoslav troops were allowed safe access to Sector B of Preševo. NATO representative Sean Sullivan witnessed the agreement as a broker of the talks in absence of direct communication between the UCPMB and the FRY government. "It's time to use other means than weapons," says Shefket Musliu, the highest commander of one of fractions of the PMBLA (UÇPMB), as he signed the Končulj agreement to lay down his arms.

Aftermath 
About 400 Albanians surrendered to KFOR and another 150 to Serbian police. They were not charged for war crimes according to the Čović plan and Končulj agreement. Most of PMBLA members joined NLA's war in Macedonia, while others joined newly formed Liberation Army of Eastern Kosovo. Because of lack of members LAEK isn't active. Several attacks on the Serb forces and civilians were recorded after the end of the war.

After reoccupation of Ground Safety Zone, Serbia separated it into 3 sectors. The sector B is stretching from Medveđa to the border with Republic of Macedonia. It is controlled by 4th Land Force Brigade situated in the city of Vranje. There are about eleven bases in this area. In 2009 largest military base in Serbia, Cepotina, was opened 5 km from Bujanovac.

In 2002 in Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac had 57,595 ethnic Albanians. However, they boycotted the 2011 census, so only 6,000 people were recorded. It is estimated that Preševo Valley today has around 50,000 Albanians.

Casualties and displacement 
During the conflict, 18 members of the Yugoslav security forces were killed and 68 were wounded. Eight civilians were also killed. Some of the deaths were caused by mines.

In 2013, UÇPMB veterans erected a memorial with the names of 27 insurgents who were killed in the conflict. A further 400 were reported to have surrendered to KFOR. Seven ethnic Albanian civilians were also killed.

Two United Nations observers were wounded, according to reports.

2002–2004 violence 

Low-intensity clashes continued over the next years. Chronology of most important events:

2002 

 20 May – bomb thrown on a house of ethnic Albanian in Preševo. Police said it is the fifteenth registered attack since March.
 December – police patrol was attacked in Končulj

2003 

 26 and 28 January – police patrol attacked again in Končulj
 4 February – bomb thrown on a Serb house in Levosoje
23 February – one Gendarmery member killed, two wounded in Muhovac by anti-tank mine
 2 March – anti-tank mine found in Turija
 10–11 August – attacks on a police with a mortar in Dobrosin
 12 August – road Kuršumlija – Podujevo, police attacked
 13 August – mine placed in Lučane
 23 August – grenade thrown
 27 August – police attacked in Dobrosin
 12 September- police attacked in Depce, Rudnik, Madjare and Preševo
 23 September – bomb found in a school in Bujanovac
 24 September – police attacked in Dobrosin

2004 

 4 February – Security Intelligence Agency member Selver Fazlliju killed in Bujanovac
 March – bomb found in school in Preševo

Several attacks on army were recorded in this period, such as: attack on watchtower in Čarska kula, sabotage on the pillar through which is powered the base of near Dobrosin and the stoning of a military motor vehicle in the village of Lučane.