[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# St. Paul's Institution

the National team.

In 1991 Rev. Bro. James Macken, for 16 years director of St. Paul's, retired, passing the baton to the first non-Brother Director; Kenneth Kulasingam. With the transfer of Rev. Bro. Michael Kum to St. Francis' Institution in Malacca, no Christian Brother now taught in St. Paul's.

A line stretching back 82 years to Rev. Bro. Isidore had now come to an end.

Into the Present
SPI Secondary celebrated its 100th year in 1999. To mark the occasion, a time capsule was planted in the assembly ground by DYYM Tunku Putra Nadzaruddin Tunku Jaafar.

In 2006, SPI Secondary welcomed the first lady principal with the appointment of Mdm. Yap See Moi.

In 2007, a double-storey school hall, providing students with better facilities for both studying and co-curricular activities was built. Consisting of four new classrooms, four badminton courts and a gymnasium, the hall was opened by YB Dato’ Hon Choon Kim, Deputy Minister of Education, Malaysia. A few months later, the school created a multi-purpose court specified for games like hockey, futsal, tennis etc. The students have the opportunity to use the court as training ground for future competitions.

Starting in 2008, the school has begun a project to raise funds to refurnish the computer lab.

In 2009, a new computer lab and renovations to the school toilets were completed. SPI Secondary celebrated 100 years as a La Sallian school and organised a variety of activities which was well covered by the local media like The Star. The historic occasion was also celebrated by its former students and alumni, Old Paulians' Association (OPA) at OPA 83rd Annual Reunion Dinner 2009, held in Hotel Royale Bintang Resort and Spa Seremban. The event was attended by approximately 1,200 Paulians, well wishers and guests including SPI Primary headmaster Chen Ah Keng.

Paulian Community
Students of SMK St. Paul or SPI Secondary are generally referred as Paulians while their younger brethren at SK. St. Paul or SPI Primary are referred as Young Paulians. Former students and members of its alumni, Old Paulians' Association or OPA, are referred as Old Paulians. The roll of registered Old Paulians is published online by the alumni. By default, the suffix CXXU denote "Graduating Class of" and "Year". For example, "Name of Old Paulian (C90U)" denotes this Old Paulian graduated Form Six Upper from SPI Secondary in 1990. "Name of Old Paulian (C90)" denotes this Old Paulian graduated from SPI Secondary in 1990. It is accepted the absence of "U" generally mean the Old Paulian graduated Form Five from SPI Secondary.

The Paulian community is currently looked after by its alumni association with strong ties to both SPI Primary and SPI Secondary.

The alumni provides monetary assistance to help alleviate the school's financial stress and rewards excellence in sports and academic results with its Tan Sri Chan Choong Tak Award during its OPA Annual Reunion Dinners.

Thanks to Old Paulians and well wishers, OPA is co-ordinating the Brother Felix Donohue Student Welfare Fund to provide financial relief to under privileged Paulians. The fund started in 2010.

Paulians and Young Paulians also benefit from coaching session under the auspices of OPA Sports Assistance Program, currently in sports like hockey and badminton. Qualified coaches, who are also Old Paulians, serve the program voluntarily.