[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Japanese cruiser Mikuma

this attack ended, a group of eight B-17 level bombers operating out of Midway, led by Lt. Col. Brooke E. Allen, arrived to attack the two cruisers. They attacked in two sections of four aircraft and dropped a total of 39 bombs around the two ships with no hits. This attack concluded at around 0830.

The following morning, 6 June 1942, Mikuma and Mogami were still heading due west instead of north-west where the combined fleet was converging, hoping to come within the  range of Wake Island's fighter air cover. Hornets 26 dive bombers arrived first, and at first ignored the two cruisers and searched for the alleged battleship ahead of this force, but having found nothing they circled back to the two cruisers and commenced their attacks. All bombing attempts on Mikuma missed, but two bombs struck Mogami, hitting one of her 8-inch turrets and the aircraft deck, respectively. The latter bomb could have caused fatal damage to the Mogami as it started a fire in the torpedo room below the aviation facility, but Mogamis damage control officer had previously ordered all torpedoes jettisoned. Anti-aircraft fire from the force shot down two of Hornets SBD Dauntlesses. The captain of the Mogami pushed the damaged ship's speed up to  to hurry out of the danger zone. At 1045 a composite force of 31 dive bombers launched from Enterprise to seek the purported battleship in the area spotted the two stragglers. The force was escorted by 12 Wildcats and 3 TBD Devastator torpedo bombers. The force was under the command of Wallace "Wally" Short of Yorktown (some of her aircraft had been forced to land at Task Force 16 after their ship was abandoned). The dive bombers once again bypassed CruDiv 7 to search for the battleship, which was not located. The Wildcats escorting the formations approached the cruisers and received anti-aircraft fire that forced them to retreat to a safe distance. The Wildcat formation leader radioed to the dive bombers that one of the ships appeared to be a battleship (perhaps owing to the contrast between the two cruisers presented by Mogamis shattered bow) and the dive bomber formation reversed course to attack the formation. Willy Short, leading the dive bombers, wanted to circle behind the formation and attack with the sun behind them, as was a favored dive bombing practice. But his rear section of the formation, VB-3, detached itself and attacked the rearmost cruiser in the formation (Mogami), planting 2 bombs in her at 1230. The rest of the dive bombers under Short attacked Mikuma from an altitude of , and caught her as she was coming out of her sharp starboard turn. Cascading through a fiery torrent of her anti-aircraft fire, the bombers delivered two hits. The first struck her No.3 turret; the explosion killed many of the officers on the bridge, including the commander of the starboard anti-aircraft batteries, and injured her captain severely enough to render him unconscious. Mikumas executive officer Takashima Hideo took command of the cruiser. The second bomb crashed through the deck and disabled the starboard forward engine rooms. Immediately after, two more bombs hit her aviation deck and exploded in the port aft engine room, starting a fire near her torpedo room. Mikuma was now dead in the water. The attacking planes left (the three TBD Devastator torpedo bombers did not join the attack, having been instructed to not attack anything that could respond with anti-aircraft fire). At 1358, the fire amidships Mikuma reached the torpedoes stored there and triggered a chain of massive secondary explosions, putting to rest the hope of towing the ship out of danger. At 1420 Mogami radioed to the combined fleet that Mikuma was in dire straits. The secondary explosions left Mikumas aft-amidships section and the aviation facility unrecognizable. The mast and superstructure atop the bridge collapsed and crashed into the conflagration in the aviation compartment. Though it wasn't obvious at the time, the bomb hit on the port machinery spaces had also ruptured the ship below the waterline, and she began taking on water. Mikuma continued trying to bring her fires under control, but approximately 30 minutes later the ship's executive officer Takashima came to the conclusion that there was no hope of saving the ship now that she was slowly settling in the water and gave the order to abandon ship. Takashima ordered the repair parties to throw shoring wood and other materials overboard to construct life rafts. Mogami and Arashio were close to Mikuma but maintained a safe distance as Mikuma was still burning and exploding, so the crews of Mikuma would have to swim over to the ships or use life rafts and launchers to reach Arashio and Mogami. In the meanwhile Asashio patrolled in a circle around them to screen the ships from air or submarine attack. The ship's severely wounded captain Sakiyama was lowered on the first life raft, closely followed by the ship's paymaster and air officers, who took with them the shi