[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Invasion: Earth (TV series)

As the disease spreads through the townsfolk, portal kidnappings become more frequent, and the station personnel – ignored by their superiors and lacking reinforcements – attempt to hold off the vanguard of the nD invasion, racing to develop an experimental toxin which they hope will kill the nDs.

Episode 6: "The Shatterer of Worlds" 
The nDs are kidnapping the populace in order to use them as living batteries. An amorphous mountain of alien tentacles and design appears on the outskirts of Kirkhaven, and it begins expanding, swallowing up and absorbing all the surrounding organic matter and transporting it back to the nDs' home. The Earth forces attack the structure but soon discover that conventional weapons are powerless to damage or stop it. Wishing to atone for her earlier disbelief, Squadron Leader Knox flies a Tornado jet into the portal in order to carry out reconnaissance, but she does not return and she is presumably captured or killed. Aided by her growing self-awareness of the nD mindset, Amanda uses the data collected by Preston to discover a safe passage through the nD structure. With her guidance, Drake and Amanda fly into the structure to launch a missile directly into the portal, in the hope of causing a chain-reaction that will destroy it. The plan seems to work at first, and Drake's plane successfully escapes from the collapsing nD structure, but the joy of the Earth forces proves short-lived—within moments a new structure rises up in place of the first, expanding at an even greater rate. Amanda now realises that the plan has failed and that there are probably an infinite number of other nD structures which can be 'folded down' into normal space to replace any that are destroyed.

With Earth's future in the balance, and the world finally paying attention, it becomes clear that the only chance is the use of ultimate force, so the Prime Minister authorises the detonation of a thermonuclear bomb to destroy all the organic matter in a 50-mile radius around the portal, in hopes that this will starve the nDs of raw materials and stop the portal from growing any larger. The defenders resolve that same tactic must be used again and again whenever a new portal appears, anywhere in the world. As Dr Tucker's transformation continues unabated despite all efforts, she walks out to stand in the kill zone as the bomber approaches and releases its weapon. The screen blurs to white, accompanied by the rumbling roar of a detonation, as the final credits roll.

Cast
Vincent Regan as Flight Lieutenant Chris Drake
Maggie O'Neill as Dr Amanda Tucker
Fred Ward as Major General David Reece
Phyllis Logan as Squadron Leader Helen Knox
Anton Lesser as Lieutenant Charles Tyrell
Sara Kestelman as Group Captain Susan Preston
Paul Medford as Nick Shay (as Paul J. Medford)
Jonathan Dow as Flight Lieutenant Jim Radcliffe
Gerard Rooney as Sergeant Tuffley
Christopher Fairbank as Wing Commander Friday (as Chris Fairbank)
Nicola Buckingham as Echo
Diana Payan as Gran
Laura Harling as Emily Tucker
Bob Barrett as Flight Lieutenant Stewart

In other media

VHS
Invasion: Earth – Volume 1: Chapters 1–3 (The Last War/The Fourth Dimension/Only the Dead)
and
Invasion: Earth – Volume 2: Chapters 4–6 (The Fall of Man/The Battle More Costly/The Shatterer of Worlds)
 Label: BMG Video
 Release Date: 1998
 Catalogue №: 74321 576 823 (Volume 1), 74321 576833 (Volume 2)
 Availability: Deleted

Each tape also includes part of a two-part behind-the-scenes documentary called The Making of Invasion: Earth.

DVD
Invasion: Earth (2-disc Region 1 box set)
 Label: A&E Television Networks
 Release Date: 2005
 Catalogue №: AAE-71413 (Disc 1: AAE-71414, Disc 2: AAE-71415)
 Availability: Out now

DVD Features
 Production Notes
 History of Alien Invasion Films
 Cast Biographies

To date, Invasion: Earth has only been released on Region 1 DVD in the United States, and as far as is known there are currently no plans for a Region 2 release for the UK.

Tie-in publication
The Invasion: Earth Companion
 Publisher: Headline Book Publishing
 Year: 1998
 Author: Peter Haining
 Original Price: £9.99
 ISBN №: 0-7472-7622-6
 Availability: Out of print

A fully illustrated guide to Invasion: Earth, which includes a detailed look at the speculative science behind the fiction and exclusive interviews with the cast and crew. The book is no longer in print.

External links

Invasion Earth  review at SciFi.com.
Invasion Earth at SideReel.com.
Invasion Earth at TVShowsOnDVD.com.

British science fiction television shows
BBC television dramas
1998 British television series debuts
1998 British television series endings
Television series produced at Pinewood Studios
Alien invasions in television
BBC Scotland television shows
Television shows set in Scotland
1990s British television miniseries
1990s British science fiction television series