[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nadītu

ed in widespread impoverishment and militarization of society in the following century.

In other cities
Outside of Sippar, groups of nadītu also existed in other cities, including Babylon, Kish, Nippur and Tell Ishchali, though they were not necessarily subject to the same regulations as in Sippar.

Attestations of nadītu dedicated to the god Marduk, consistently designated as lukur damar-utu  ká-dingir-raki, "nadītu of Marduk of Babylon", are known from between the times of Apil-Sin and Samsuditana. In contrast with these in service of most gods who possessed such devotees, they resided in various locations, including not only his cult center, Babylon, but also Damrum, Dilbat, Isin, Kish, Lagaba, Larsa, Nippur, Sippar, Sippar-Amnanum, Suhu and Ṣupur-Šubula. The wide range of attestations presumably reflects the growth of Marduk's importance through the Old Babylonian period, and the establishment of his cult in various cities. In contrast with their peers dedicated to Shamash, the nadītu in his service did not live in seclusion and were permitted to marry, though they similarly were not allowed to have children. However, they could adopt the children of a secondary wife or servant of their husband. Their status was regulated by the Code of Hammurabi, in which multiple paragraphs are dedicated to regulations pertaining to their marriages, presumably due to lack of applicable customary laws in areas in which they are attested due to the expansion of the Babylonian state. Lucile Barberon speculates that marrying a nadītu of Marduk might have been perceived as a display of willingness to integrate into Babylonian culture promoted by the First Dynasty of Babylon. There is no indication that multiple sisters from within one family could become nadītu of Marduk, in contrast with the evidence pertaining to those connected to Shamash, and outside of Sippar no instances of a single family making one daughter a nadītu of city god and another of Marduk have been identified. A further difference between the nadītu of Shamash and Marduk is the fact that seemingly none of the latter bore theophoric names invoking their god, though some instances of names invoking his temple, Esagil, or the closely associated god Asalluhi have been noted.

In Nippur, local nadītu were associated with the god Ninurta. A single text from dated to the reign of Damiq-ilishu, might mention a nadītu dedicated to the deity Isar-pada instead. Relatively little is known about their social position. Like in Sippar, they were expected to remain unmarried, and similarly could partake in economic activities. They did not change their names after being initiated, and most bore ordinary ones typical for the period, such as Lamasum, Kunutum or Ištar-lamasi. They lived in a separate area of the city, but was not necessarily organized identically as in Sippar, and it is only described as KI.LUKUR.RA, "place of the nadītu".

A gagû overseen by an official referred to as wakil nadiātim in which nadītu dedicated to the local war god Zababa resided existed in Kish. Similarly to the nadītu of Shamash, its inhabitants did not marry.

The texts from Tell Ischali, presumed to be ancient Nerebtum, a city in the kingdom of Eshnunna, do not contain much information about religious officials, but they mention five women designated as nadītu, three of whom, Kurrītum, Amat-Šamaš and Aja-bēlet-mātim, are explicitly identified as being in the service of Shamash.

A purported reference to a nadītu of Ninsianna on a seal from Uruk from the reign of Rīm-Anum is most likely a misreading, as this individual bears the masculine name Bēl-Anum, which alongside the reexamination of the remaining traces of the title lead Andrea Seri to conclude that the office meant was that of gudu4,  Akkadian pašīšum'', "anointed one", known to be a class of religious personnel.

References

Bibliography

Mesopotamian priests
Ancient priestesses
Ancient Mesopotamian women
Babylonian women
Social classes