[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Bruno Tesch

's business dealings. His lawyer pointed to his smaller salary as evidence of his lack of authority. He was in no position to read Tesch's travel reports. In closing, Draper said that Drosihn must have known something about what Tesch and Weinbacher were doing, even if his job did not involve sales.

As for Tesch, Draper said he knew exactly what he was doing when he sold Zyklon B to the SS. He said there was no way that Tesch could not have known what was happening in the camps, or how much gas was being sold. Draper said Tesch's actions and knowledge made him an accomplice to murder, and that Weinbacher was just as guilty.

Draper conceded his lack of direct evidence. However, he then said "the real strength" of his case was not the direct evidence, but the firm itself. The Judge Advocate summarized what Draper meant with this argument. He said that Tesch and Weinbacher appeared to know everything about their business, but were sensitive to talk about the Zyklon B sales to Auschwitz. The Judge Advocate said Draper was asking, "Why is it that these competent business men are so sensitive about these particular deliveries? Is it because they themselves knew that such large deliveries could not possibly be going there for the purpose of delousing clothing or for the purpose of disinfecting buildings?"

In Weinbacher's case, the Judge Advocate said there was no direct evidence. However he then asked the judges what were the odds that, throughout the entire war, Weinbacher had only paid attention to the figures related to other dealings, and never to those concerning the Zyklon B sales. This would be especially unusual given the fact that the Zyklon B sales were the firm's most profitable business venture, and that as the deputy executive of Testa, Weinbacher got a commission on all of the firm's profits.

During his summation, the Judge Advocate implied that Drosihn was not morally innocent. However, he also said Drosihn was in no position to either influence the sales of Zyklon B to Auschwitz, let alone prevent them. He concluded that regardless of how much Drosihn knew, he could not legally be found guilty without having been in a position to influence the sales.

Tesch and Weinbacher were both found guilty and sentenced to death. Drosihn was acquitted and released. Tesch and Weinbacher were executed by hanging on 16 May 1946, by Albert Pierrepoint in Hamelin Prison.

See also
IG Farben Trial

References

1890 births
1946 deaths
20th-century German chemists
20th-century German businesspeople
German company founders
German chemical industry businesspeople
German industrialists
Curiohaus trials executions by hanging
Executed German mass murderers
Executed people from Lower Saxony
Holocaust perpetrators
Humboldt University of Berlin alumni
Nazi Party members
Romani genocide perpetrators
People from Hameln-Pyrmont
University of Göttingen alumni