[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Seafort Saga

sychological trauma accumulated due to the many traumatic experiences he has been through. Among the injuries Seafort has sustained is the ruined friendship with his former shipmate, Vax Holser. Vax resents Seafort sending him away from Challenger, wanting to remain with his captain no matter what. 

The admiral in charge of the United Nations fleet in the sector makes a bargain with Seafort: due to his supposed good relations with some of the planters, he can meet with and report on what their grievances are and attempt to allay them. This appointment does not sit well with him, as he would much prefer to be assigned a captaincy. However, the UN space fleet retreats Earthward after tangling with the space threat discovered by Seafort in his first voyage on Hibernia. This leaves Seafort the sole United Nations authority on the planet, which makes him a target. 

Some of the planters, disaffected by the long history of unfulfilled promises and seeking greater autonomy in their future, mount a rebellion. The initial casualties include Alexi Tamarov, who is injured in an explosion meant to kill Seafort, but which instead leaves him in a coma. Coming out of the coma, Alexi has suffered amnesia, not knowing his old friend or anything about his naval responsibilities. Additionally, Seafort marries the former transient Annie Wells, but is left feeling betrayed when she has what she considers a meaningless sexual encounter with an old friend. 

Seafort must avert the rebellion while dealing with his wounds, both mental and physical, and lead the colonists against the space invaders, who have begun to attack not just the fleets in orbit but also the planet. To do so, he must turn his back on his oath to the UN Navy and commit high treason. 

Reaching the station in orbit above Hope Nation, Seafort manages to transmit skewed N-Waves which attract the "fish", and uses the automated weapons on board the station to kill thousands of them. He also arranges for the stations fusion reactor to detonate, which is tantamount to a nuclear explosion. Such an act is punishable by death, but Seafort no longer cares about his life. In the process of conducting this exercise, Vax Holser arrives at the last minute with a ship and arranges to come aboard the station. While there, he incapacitates Seafort, and sends him back on his launch, remaining in his place. This results in Vax's death.

Seafort must assume command of Vax's old ship, with a crew who do not trust him (blaming him for their captain's death), passengers who do not like him (including Annie, who has been driven insane after an attempted rape by criminals on Hope Nation; Alexi with his amnesia; and Jarence Branstead, who is a potential goofjuice addict) as well as wrestling with his own sense of justice, which he feels demands his death for his failures.

Reaching Earth, Seafort finds that the ban on nuclear weapons has been lifted due to repeated attacks by the Fish, and his actions are deemed laudable by the navy. Feeling unworthy, Seafort seeks to resign. Instead, he is persuaded to take over the command of the naval academy, training the next generation of cadets.

Fisherman's Hope
Published in 1996.

Captain Seafort has been made commandant of the naval academy, a promotion which does not sit well with him. Having no tolerance for the political machinations which he must deal with, he struggles to accomplish anything he feels is worthwhile.

Additionally his wife, Annie Wells, is still suffering mental trauma from her rape while on Hope Nation. While receiving treatment, she runs away from her clinic and takes to the streets of Old New York City. Captain Seafort must turn to an old acquaintance, Eddie Boss, in an effort to try and find her. In the process, he must also risk his own life while braving the transient-controlled streets.

Back at the academy, Seafort is helpless to do anything when the Fish attack the home system. He comes up with a desperate plan which may save the home system, but would also mean his certain death, as well as the deaths of cadets who have placed their trust in him.

Somehow surviving the attack, but now firmly scarred mentally and emotionally from what the survival of home system has cost him, Seafort finally resigns his commission.

In an epilogue, it is revealed that Captain Seafort finds comfort in the seclusion of a monastery. As part of his penance and treatment, the head of the monastery encourages him to write down his life story to try to help purge him of his feelings of guilt.

After several years of seclusion, he is persuaded to enter politics, using his support to help strengthen the navy to the best of his ability. He divorces Annie and marries an old academy classmate, Arlene Sanders. His unswerving devotion to honesty in all things leads to his government being voted out of office, but allows him to preserve his integrity and his honor.

Voices of Hope
Published in 1997.