[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Serbian mafia

Serbian organized crime or Serbian mafia () are various criminal organizations based in Serbia or composed of ethnic Serbs in the former Yugoslavia and Serbian diaspora. The organizations are primarily involved in smuggling, arms trafficking, drug trafficking, human trafficking, assassinations, heists, assault, protection rackets, murder, money laundering and illegal gambling. The mafia is composed of several major organized groups, which in turn have wider networks throughout Europe and across the world.
 
It includes some highly successful groups, including one of the largest cocaine import enterprises in  Europe "Groupa Amerika", and the "YACS" Crime Group, out of NYC. The "Pink Panthers" is responsible for some of the biggest heists ever committed. Its origin dates back to SFRY, which had very low crime rate, as criminals were allowed to live peacefully in Yugoslavia as long as they restricted their operations to abroad, and then bring the stolen goods and capital back to be spent at home. The Serbian mafia gave many Serbs a perceived way out of the economic disaster that occurred in the country following the implementation of internationally imposed sanctions against Serbia during the Yugoslav Wars. Serbian criminals have been recruited into state security forces, a notable example being Milorad "Legija" Ulemek, a commander in Arkan's Tigers, which was re-labelled as the JSO (Red Berets) after the war.

Serbian mafia is made up of several major international criminal organizations, specializes for cocaine trade, each of them has annual income of several billions. Two of them are declared as the most powerful in Europe, (Cartel "Los Balcanes" and "Group America").

It has established a direct connection with the majority of cocaine producers, purchasing drugs directly from South American producers, selling them only to wholesalers operating in Europe.

During the period when the cigarette mafia operated, Serbian mafia earned about 100 billion dollars.

Serbian mafia today, is estimated to earn €62 billion annually, their annual earnings on the cocaine market in Europe are worth €5.4 billion Euros. According to the DEA, alone cartel Tito y Dino is estimated at 23 billion euros on cocaine market. In June 2013, the world renowned magazine Forbes published a list of the richest mafia bosses in the world, Serbian drug lord Darko Šarić, was in a high fifth place, he is estimated to have assets worth of 27 billion dollars.

According to estimates by the DEA and Europol, Serbian cartel known as "Los Balcanes", send about  500 tons of cocaine annually to the Old Continent. The boss of everything was the Serb, Dejan Stanimirovic, who was wanted by more than 30 countries.

One of the most significant mafias in Scandinavia is the Serbian-Montenegrin mafia in Scandinavia, also known as “Juggemaffian” (“Yugo Mafia”). The foundations of the gang began during the mass immigration of Yugoslav guest-workers to Sweden in the 1970s. Its power base is in the cities of Stockholm and Copenhagen, and territory in Malmö and Gothenburg, among other cities in western Sweden. They received significant media attention in Sweden especially during the 1990s, thanks to flashy top-ranking members such as Dragan "Jokso" Joksović. The founder and first leader of the gang is believed to be warlord Željko Ražnatović Arkan and the current leader is alleged to be Milan Ševo

Ethnic Serb organized crime groups are organized horizontally; higher-ranked members are not necessarily coordinated by any leader.

History
Ljubomir Magaš, aka Ljuba Zemunac, was known as the "Godfather" of the Serbian mafia during the 1970s and 1980s. He and his gang operated in Germany and Italy during this time. He was assassinated in 1986 by his rival Goran "Majmun" Vuković

Vukasin Despotović & Dario Ivišić operated in the Netherlands and became one of the most powerful gangsters through his elimination of rivals while working as a hitman and took over the drug trade in the Netherlands. The drug that was smuggled was cocaine from Colombia and "Joca Amsterdam" became known as the "Cocaine King". He worked for "Duja" Bećirović as an underboss and later lived in Bulgaria where he successfully smuggled drugs until his arrest in 2002. Upon returning to Serbia, he took over companies by force, utilizing the Surčin clan, (one of three then most powerful "clans" of Belgrade). He was later accused of organizing the 2008 assassination of Ivo Pukanić, a Croatian journalist killed by a car bomb, but was acquitted by a Serbian court due to a lack of evidence for his involvement.