[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hai-Genti

through the use of bio-engineering of various life forms, as well as his race themselves, but it was far too late. It was thus decided by the race that they would find a new homeworld and Mammon would be the first who willingly uploaded his mind into the psychic buffers on board the starship Caucus.

Auriga
An ancient cruel and malicious dictator who was a mighty warlord on the Hai-Genti homeworld. Auriga controlled more than one fourth of the planet in his time with his bloodlust and acts of wanton destruction making him a feared and dangerous opponent to face. His reign would slowly come to an end when he made war against Mammon who advocated in attempting to save their homeworld.
 
Civil war was the result which would end in Auriga's defeat and the simple choice of surrendering or dying. He decided to surrender but vowed to kill Mammon when the opportunity arose for the transgressions he made against the warlord. When the Hai-Genti homeworld was abandoned for a more prosperous planet, Auriga downloaded his mind into the psychic buffers of the Hai-Genti starship Caucus. For centuries his mind has remained there, growing in anger and greed while awaiting the opportune moment to strike against his enemy - Mammon.

Psyclade
A special servant of the Overseer that floats above the ground. The Psyclade is a psychic Hai-Genti that can manipulate organic matter with a simple glance or a mere thought. It is possible the Overseer copied its ability to erect a force field from this organic form, as the Psyclade Hai-Genti can create a force field, as well as send a shockwave through the ground surrounding it. Its one and only purpose is to serve the Overseer, and it will die trying to accomplish this goal.

Technology
The Hai-Genti are one of the few races that have developed a completely different approach in the way of technology. This is entirely based on living creatures constructed through sophisticated biological engineering which serve a variety of purposes from beasts of burden to war organisms. As such, these creatures are capable of remarkable feats from simple melee strikes to kill enemies to energy weapons being generated to destroy enemy vehicles.

The race has also developed the ability to travel the stars as evidenced by their mothership the Caucus which sends spores down to the planet they are conquering in an effort to aid in the terraforming of the world.

List of Organisms
Progenitor - a large slow moving beast that commands a colony of smaller subterranean beasts to attack its enemies. It can later be 'upgraded' to utilise a worm-like appendage for long strikes against enemy forces.
Scuttler - bio-engineered as a suicide unit, the scuttler is fast and dies when it explodes within enemy lines. It can be later 'upgraded' to either leave behind slime that slows down enemy units exposed to it or a deadly acid that slowly burns them to death.
Salamander - a large lumbering beast that breathes out fire that burns its enemies to death and can be modified to increase the strength of this biological flame to deal even more damage.
Scorpion - a creature whose sting located on its tail can turn humans into alien spawns that turned against their comrades. They can be 'upgraded' to launch biological incendiary bombs at long range.
Crusher - a large beast that uses its jaws and arms to destroy its enemies and can breathe a deadly acid on its enemies which burns anything it comes into contact with. 
Raptor - a flying organism that is armed through a biologically generated energy beam that destroys enemy units or buildings. The manner this is generated is unknown.
Pestilence - a larger flying organism that protects itself through a swarm of leech-like creatures that attacks its enemies. They can later be 'upgraded' to create a warp and teleport to a different location through biological means but how this is accomplished is unknown.
Bio-Thrall - humans who have been modified with Hai-Genti DNA and, as such, have become mindless drones to their masters. They can transform themselves into a sort of living proximity mine.
Spawn - the basic type of Hai-Genti warrior who are bred in large numbers to defeat their enemies and use organic blades attached to their bodies.
Ripper - a breed of Hai-Genti not unlike the Spawn, Rippers can attack by launching the spikes on their backs at their foes.
Siren - another basic Hai-Genti organism. The Sirens attack by using sonic waves to damage their foes via screeching at high frequencies.
Psyclade - a special organism that resides on the Mothership until called down. The Psyclade is capable of transforming its enemies into Spawns, and when it has been 'upgraded' through combat experience, it can also erect a force field around its body and create a shockwave that pulses through the ground around it.
Titan - the largest and most powerful organism the Hai-Genti have. The Titan is a creature of colossal size. In fact, it is so big it must be called down from the Mothership among flam