[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Utah State Legislature

The Utah State Legislature is the state legislature of the U.S. state of Utah. It is a bicameral body, comprising the Utah House of Representatives, with 75 state representatives, and the Utah Senate, with 29 state senators. There are no term limits for either chamber.

The Legislature convenes at the Utah State Capitol in the state capital of Salt Lake City. In 2020, voters approved an amendment to the state constitution that changed the legislative start date from a constitutionally mandated fourth Monday of January to a date set by state law (thereby making it easier to change the start date if necessary). Current state law requires the start date of the Utah State Legislature to be the first Tuesday after the third Monday in January  for an annual 45-day session.

Overview
The Utah State Legislature meets in the Utah State Capitol in Salt Lake City. The Republicans currently have super-majorities in both the House and Senate. They control the House by a margin of 59–16 and the Senate by 23–6. The current Senate President is Stuart Adams (R), and the Speaker of the House is Brad Wilson (R).

Districts

The state is divided into 29 Senate districts, each representing approximately 77,000 people and the House is divided into 75 House districts, each representing approximately 29,800 people. Senate districts overlap House districts allowing two legislators for each constituency in Utah.

Terms and qualifications

Senators are elected to a four-year term, and Representatives to a two-year term. All state House districts and half of all state Senate districts are up for election every two years. To be eligible for the office of a state senator or representative, a person must be a citizen of the United States, be at least 25 years of age, be a qualified voter in the district from which elected, and must be a resident of the State of Utah for three years and a resident of the district from which elected for six months. There are no term limitations for either the Utah House of Representatives or the Utah Senate.

Sessions

The annual General Session is held for 45 calendar days, convening on the fourth Monday in January. The General Session must conclude by midnight on the 45th day according to the Utah State Constitution. The Governor may by proclamation convene the Legislature in Special Session, to transact legislative business, but no legislative business can be conducted except that which is expressed in the proclamation or other legislative business that the Governor shall call attention to. These special sessions, except in the cases of impeachment, cannot exceed 30 calendar days. The House may convene for the purpose of impeachment if two-thirds of the members are in favor of convening for that purpose. The Speaker of the House shall determine by poll whether there is a sufficient number of members to convene for an Impeachment Session outside the General Session. If the House impeaches an official, the Senate is required to convene to try that impeachment.

History

Utah Territorial Assembly

The Utah Territory was established by an act of Congress on Monday, September 9, 1850 which provided for a territorial government made up of a territorial governor chosen every four years, a territorial Assembly with a 13-member council chosen every second year and a 26-member House of Representatives chosen annually, and a territorial Judiciary made up of a Supreme Court, District Courts, Probate Courts, and justices of the peace. The creation of the Territory of Utah was part of the Compromise of 1850 seeking to preserve the political balance of power between the slave and free states.

Following the organization of the territory, Brigham Young was inaugurated as its first governor on Sunday, February 9, 1851 and the first territorial assembly met Monday, September 22, 1851. The legislative body of the Utah Territory continued to act until 1896 with the successful passage of the Utah Constitution and Utah achieving statehood. The first President of the Utah Territorial Senate was Willard Richards and the first Territorial Speaker of the House was William Wines Phelps. In 1870, the length of a Representative's term was extended to two years, and in 1896 the Utah Territorial Council became the Utah Senate with a four-year term.

Petitions for statehood