[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Outline of biology

le – water cycle 
Climate change: Fossil fuel – coal – oil – natural gas – World energy consumption – Climate change feedback – Albedo – water vapor Carbon sink
Conservation
Biodiversity – habitats – Ecosystem services – biodiversity loss – extinction – Sustainability – Holocene extinction

Branches

 Anatomy – study of form in animals, plants and other organisms, or specifically in humans. Simply, the study of internal structure of living organisms.
 Comparative anatomy – the study of evolution of species through similarities and differences in their anatomy.
 Osteology – study of bones.
 Osteomyoarthrology – the study of the movement apparatus, including bones, joints, ligaments and muscles.
 Viscerology – the study of organs
 Neuroanatomy – the study of the nervous system.
 Histology – also known as microscopic anatomy or microanatomy, the branch of biology which studies the microscopic anatomy of biological tissues.
 Astrobiology – study of origin, early-evolution, distribution, and future of life in the universe. Also known as exobiology, and bioastronomy.
 Bioarchaeology – study of human and animal remains from archaeological sites.
 Biochemistry – study of the chemical reactions required for life to exist and function, usually a focus on the cellular level.
 Biocultural anthropology – the study of the relations between human biology and culture.
 Biogeography – study of the distribution of species spatially and temporally.
 Biolinguistics – study of biology and the evolution of language.
 Biological economics – an interdisciplinary field in which the interaction of human biology and economics is studied.
 Biophysics – study of biological processes through the methods traditionally used in the physical sciences.
 Biomechanics – the study of the mechanics of living beings.
 Neurophysics – study of the development of the nervous system on a molecular level.
 Quantum biology – application of quantum mechanics and theoretical chemistry to biological objects and problems.
 Virophysics – study of mechanics and dynamics driving the interactions between virus and cells.
 Biotechnology – new and sometimes controversial branch of biology that studies the manipulation of living matter, including genetic modification and synthetic biology.
 Bioinformatics – use of information technology for the study, collection, and storage of genomic and other biological data.
 Bioengineering – study of biology through the means of engineering with an emphasis on applied knowledge and especially related to biotechnology.
 Synthetic biology – research integrating biology and engineering; construction of biological functions not found in nature.
 Botany – study of plants.
 Photobiology – scientific study of the interactions of light (technically, non-ionizing radiation) and living organisms. The field includes the study of photosynthesis, photomorphogenesis, visual processing, circadian rhythms, bioluminescence, and ultraviolet radiation effects.
 Phycology – scientific study of algae.
 Plant physiology – subdiscipline of botany concerned with the functioning, or physiology, of plants.
 Cell biology – study of the cell as a complete unit, and the molecular and chemical interactions that occur within a living cell.
 Histology – study of the anatomy of cells and tissues of plants and animals using microscopy.
 Chronobiology – field of biology that examines periodic (cyclic) phenomena in living organisms and their adaptation to solar- and lunar-related rhythms.
 Dendrochronology – study of tree rings, using them to date the exact year they were formed in order to analyze atmospheric conditions during different periods in natural history. 
 Developmental biology – study of the processes through which an organism forms, from zygote to full structure
 Embryology – study of the development of embryo (from fecundation to birth).
 Gerontology – study of aging processes.
 Ecology – study of the interactions of living organisms with one another and with the non-living elements of their environment.
 Epidemiology – major component of public health research, studying factors affecting the health of populations.
 Evolutionary biology – study of the origin and descent of species over time.
 Evolutionary developmental biology – field of biology that compares the developmental processes of different organisms to determine the ancestral relationship between them, and to discover how developmental processes evolved.
 Paleobiology – discipline which combines the methods and findings of the life sciences with the methods and findings of the earth science, paleontology.
 Paleoanthropology – the study of fossil evidence for human evolution, mainly using remains from extinct hominin and other primate species to determine the morphological and behavioral changes in the human lineage, as well as the environment in which human evolution occurred.
 Paleobotany – study of fossil plants.
 Paleontology – study of fossils and sometimes geographic evidence of pr