[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# S-class destroyer (1917)

e higher quality of workmanship practiced by these specialist builders, rather than due to deficiencies of the Admiralty designs. Thus the seven vessels ordered from Yarrow were built to a distinct design ("Yarrow S class"); similarly the five ordered from Thornycroft were the "Thornycroft S class".

Engineering
Most of the Admiralty S class had Brown-Curtis single-reduction geared turbines; seven vessels (Steadfast, Sterling, Stonehenge, Stormcloud, Tilbury, Tintagel, and Strenuous) had Parsons Impulse-Reaction turbines, instead. Three Yarrow boilers (maximum pressure ) were fitted in all except the vessels built by Whites (which had White-Forster boilers).  The highest trial speed of the Admiralty S class was  recorded by Senator (with , 360.1 rpm) at a displacement of 1,019 tons.

Aircraft
Senator conducted trials in June 1918 to test the feasibility of a flying off platform aft, with the intent of launching an aircraft with the ship proceeding full speed astern; however, the amount of spray rendered this proposal unworkable. Later (c. 1927–28) both Stronghold and Thanet were fitted with a cordite catapult for launching aircraft from their fo'c's'le (the forward gun was removed); they were used to test the Larynx, an early experimental type of cruise missile.

Various S-class destroyers were used at different times during the 1920s and 1930s as attendant vessels for aircraft carriers: Searcher in the Mediterranean Fleet and Tyrian, Sesame, Sturdy, and Stronghold in the Home Fleet. Their armament was removed (in order to lighten the ship for maximum speed), and a davit installed on the fo'c's'le for recovery of ditched aircraft.

Target ship control vessel

Shikari was completed in 1924 with the special role as a control vessel for the fleet's target ships (initially , replaced by  in 1926).  All armament was removed and a radio transmitter antenna added.  She served in this role until the outbreak of the Second World War, when she was refitted as an operational unit.

Naming
The class, initially referred to as the "Modified Trenchant class", was officially named the "S class" by the Admiralty Board in November 1917 (even though 26 out of 67 vessels had names beginning with T). Some of the R class also had names beginning with S or T, which can be a source of confusion.

Some had rather obscure names:
Sardonyx is a red onyx gemstone;
Seabear (incorrectly spelt Sea Bear in some sources) is an archaic term for polar bear;
Seafire is a term for marine bioluminescence;
Seawolf is an archaic term for various species of voracious fish (such as the wolffish) or marine mammals (such as the elephant seal or sea lion);
Sepoy was an infantryman of the Indian army;
Seraph is a type of angel;
Serapis was an ancient Graeco-Egyptian god;
Shikari is an Urdu term for a big game hunter or hunting guide in British India;
Simoom (incorrectly spelt Simoon in some sources) is a dry desert wind in the Sahara (there was also an R Class destroyer of this name, sunk on 23 January 1917);
Sirdar is a Persian title of nobility used to denote princes, noblemen, and other aristocrats; it was used as the title for the commander of the Anglo-Egyptian Army;
Tara was the traditional seat of the High King of Ireland;
Tryphon (Τρύφων) is a Greek given name, meaning 'gentle' or 'sweet' (famous historical figures bearing the name include a Seleucid Emperor of the second Century BCE, a Greek grammarian in the first century BCE, and a 3rd Century Christian Saint);
Tyrian is a precious type of purple dye used in regal robes in antiquity.

Sterling was originally ordered with the name Stirling, apparently due to a typing error.

Ships in the class
Abbreviations: BU:broken up for scrap; RAN: Royal Australian Navy; RCN: Royal Canadian Navy; IJN: Imperial Japanese Navy.

Admiralty S class

Thornycroft S class

John I. Thornycroft & Company Limited, based at Woolston, Southampton, was a shipbuilding firm specializing in construction of destroyers and other fast vessels. These five vessels were built to Thornycroft's own design, based on a modified version of their R-class destroyer . Thornycrofts emphasized improved performance via larger, more powerful machinery.  In order to incorporate larger boilers, the beam was increased by  (with a metacentric height .) The increased stability allowed a higher mounting for the forward gun, which was placed on a superstructure that acted as a breakwater.
They had a designed power of ; on trials, Tobago made  with , on a displacement of 979 tons. The first two were ordered in April 1917 and the last three in June 1917. The 18-inch torpedoes under the bridge were fixed athwartship, rather than being rotating mounts as was the case in the Admiralty S-class.

Yarrow S class