[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Censure in the United States

t his sister-in-law taken at a bar on a cell phone. The censure was voted 15-0 by the Sheboygan Common Council. His powers were also quickly reduced by the Common Council, and he was ultimately removed from office two and a half years later in a recall election for continued improprieties in office.

In November 2009, members of the Charleston County Republican Party censured Republican Senator Lindsey Grahamof South Carolina in response to his voting to bail out banks and other Wall Street firms, and for his views on immigration reform and cap-and-trade climate change legislation.

On 2 December 2010, Democratic Rep. Charlie Rangel from the State of New York was censured after an ethics panel found he violated House rules, specifically failing to pay taxes on a villa in the Dominican Republic, improperly soliciting charitable donations, and running a campaign office out of a rent-stabilized apartment meant for residential use.

On 4 January 2010, members of the Lexington County Republican Party censured Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina for his support of government intervention in the private financial sector and for “debasing” longstanding Republican beliefs in economic competition.

On 22 January 2013, the Arizona Republican Party censured longtime Sen. John McCain for his record of occasionally voting with Democrats on some issues.

On 6 February 2021, the Wyoming Republican Party censured Rep. Liz Cheney, the House Republican Conference Chair and third highest-ranking member of the House Republican leadership, for her vote to impeach former President Donald Trump during his second impeachment trial.

On 13 February 2021, the Louisiana Republican Party censured Senator Bill Cassidy, the senior U.S. senator from Louisiana, for his vote to convict former President Donald Trump during his second impeachment trial.

On 15 February 2021, the North Carolina Republican Party's central committee voted to censure U.S. Senator Richard Burr for his vote to convict former president Donald Trump during his second impeachment trial.

On 16 March 2021, the Alaska Republican Party censured U.S. Senator Lisa Murkowski for her vote to convict former president Donald Trump during his second impeachment trial.

On 17 November 2021, the Democratic-controlled U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure to censure Republican Rep. Paul Gosar for posting an anime video of him killing fellow Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and attacking President Joe Biden.

On 22 January 2022, the Arizona Democratic Party censured U.S. Senator Kyrsten Sinema for blocking voting rights.

On 4 February 2022, the Republican National Committee voted to formally censure Rep. Liz Cheney & Rep. Adam Kinzinger for their participation in the United States House Select Committee on the January 6 Attack.

On 21 June 2023, the Republican-controlled U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure to censure Democratic Rep. Adam B. Schiff for pressing allegations that Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign colluded with Russia, a week after a first attempt to censure Schiff was blocked.

References

Further reading
 Butler, Anne M., and Wendy Wolff, United States Senate Election, Expulsion and Censure Cases, 1793–1900 (Washington: Government Printing Office, 1995)
Expulsion, Censure, Reprimand, and Fine: Legislative Discipline in the House of Representatives Congressional Research Service
Final Report of the Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress (December 1993):Enforcement of Ethical Standards in Congress
Resolutions Censuring the President: History and Context, 1st-114th Congresses Congressional Research Service

Incidental motions
Legislative branch of the United States government