[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation Accountability

lties. They were also accused of hiding small arms in civilian houses.

Ultimately, Israel declared that it attacked Hezbollah targets only to pressure Hezbollah to stop attacking Israeli civilians – while Hezbollah declared similar motive for their attacks along with liberating of Southern Lebanon.

Outcome
A ceasefire was reached after a week, negotiated by the United States, in a form of an oral agreement.   Global Security, a US-based organization that attempts to provide accurate facts without opinion, wrote: "An oral agreement was reached whereby Israel agreed to refrain from attacking civilian targets in Lebanon while the Hezballah pledged to stop firing rockets into northern Israel." The agreement, brokered by US Secretary of State Warren Christopher legitimised Hezbollah operations against the IDF inside the security zone. Another consequence of the agreement was the Lebanese army establishing bases in four villages with around 300 troops inside the UNIFIL area adjacent to the security zone. On 19 August seven Israeli soldiers were killed in a Hezbollah ambush near Shahin with one more later dying of his wounds; another soldier was killed in a separate incident. Two Hezbollah fighters were killed in airstrikes near Baalbek and targets close to the Syrian border.

However, that agreement was not completely respected. The next major engagement, Operation Grapes of Wrath, occurred in April 1996.

In addition to the deaths of 118 Lebanese civilians, a disputed number of Hezbollah combatants were also killed. Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri said that eight had been killed, while Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin claimed more than fifty. There were two Israeli civilians killed by Hezbollah rocket attacks. One Israeli soldier was killed, and three wounded.
Six Syrian soldiers were killed in the bombardments.

The Lebanese government announced a reconstruction program under the auspice of the Majlis al-Janub (Council of the South) which was to give households grants of up to LL20 million (£12,000) but there were complaints of the money not arriving. More successful was the Hezbollah program, Jihad al-Bina’ (Construction Jihad), which allowed households to choose the workmen involved in the rebuilding and Hezbollah paid the costs.

In May 2000, Israel left all of the Lebanese occupied territories, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 425, twenty-two years after the adoption of that resolution.

See also
 1978 South Lebanon conflict
 1982 Lebanon war
 2006 Lebanon War
 Israeli occupation of southern Lebanon
 Operation Grapes of Wrath

Bibliography
 Bregman, Ahron (2016). Israel's Wars: A History Since 1947. London: Routledge. 
 Tveit, Odd Karsten (2010) Goodbye Lebanon. Israel's First Defeat. Rimal Publication. Translated by Peter Scott-Hansen.

References

Further reading
Noam Chomsky, “Limited War” in Lebanon, orig. published in Z Magazine, September, 1993

South Lebanon conflict (1985–2000)
1993 in Lebanon
1993 in Israel