[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Victor Cazalet

ch an agreement, regardless of the other countries involved, would lead to a dangerous competition in shipbuilding between both countries that would seriously jeopardise world peace: In 1929 he said, "Each country should build the ships it needs without regarding the other navy as a possible enemy".

In 1941, during the London Blitz, Cazalet urged the American government to keep the lifeline between their countries open. "The victory can be won," he emphasised, "if the stuff gets over". He added that Britain was deeply grateful for the help it had already received from the US.

Advocating Jewish homeland
Cazalet had become chairman of the House of Commons Palestine Committee and described the plight of Britain under siege as connected to that of the Jews who were being driven from Europe by the Nazis. During a speech to the committee in May 1941, he explained that they had the same aims:

In Cazalet's opinion, it was in the best interest of the British Empire to establish a Jewish state in Palestine. However, although Jews were also victims of Nazi aggression, they were still not recognised as allies of Britain. "England," he said, "may have made many mistakes, but today she represents something above and beyond material possessions".

Although he never knew his grandfather, Edward Cazalet, the latter had first inspired his interest in establishing a Jewish state. An industrialist based in Russia, Edward had written a number of treatises in the 1870s in which he advocated a Jewish homeland and wrote that "under English protection the Jewish nation, after eighteen hundred years of exile, would have it in their power to return again to their own country". According to Cazalet biographer Robert Rhodes James, Edward Cazalet had seen the pogroms against the Jews in the Russian Empire, and their plight made a "profound emotional appeal to him". He also recognised the spiritual aspect:

Victor Cazalet's actual involvement in promoting the Jewish state began with the guidance of Lord Arthur Balfour, however, and Cazalet's friendship with Chaim Weizmann. Cazalet wrote, "Lord Balfour's devotion to the cause of Jewry will be recognised wherever Jews are to be found in this world". Weizmann tried to apply the feelings by championing the idea of creating a separate Jewish army that would support Britain's fight against Germany. In 1942, Cazalet called upon the British government to grant the Jewish Agency's request to create a fighting force of 20,000 Jewish soldiers and a home guard of 50,000 to be made an integral part of the British Army. His efforts failed, however.

At a 1941 conference in the United States in which he was joined by Sikorski, Cazalet advocated forgetting differences and "uniting all forces in an effort to defeat the enemy". He saw the struggle in Palestine as setting an example for the rest of the world. "Although the war has held up our program as far as Palestine is concerned, in God's good time the Jewish State will be established and it will contribute as much happiness and prosperity to the Arab as to the Jew." During a speech in April 1941, Cazalet stated:

On 27 June 1943, a week before he was killed, he visited Cairo and then Jerusalem, where he met with David Ben-Gurion and others. His last public statements recorded were at that meeting, in which he said, "I would gladly give my life for the establishment of a Jewish state in Palestine, as I am ready to give my life for the preservation of the British Empire.... Whatever happens, the Jews must have a permanent home".

Death and legacy

After serving in the House of Commons for nineteen years, he was considered one of the "most brilliant" of the younger men in the Commons. "His knowledge of central Europe was probably unequaled," wrote the New York Times after his sudden death in 1943, at age 46, when his plane crashed seconds after takeoff from Gibraltar.

The plane, a B-24 Liberator II LB-30 AL523 was also carrying General Sikorski and fellow Conservative MP Brigadier John Whiteley; Sikorski, Whiteley and everyone else on board (except for first pilot Eduard Prchal)—sixteen in all—died in the crash. The circumstances surrounding the unexplained accident have led to various controversies and allegations of sabotage.

Cazalet's family received a flood of tributes, many from unknown admirers and others from notables, including Churchill, Anthony Eden, Eleanor Rathbone, Hugh Dalton and Polish dignitaries. Chaim Weizmann speaking at a memorial ceremony in London, described Cazalet as "one of the few precious friends of the Jewish people in modern times who never was moved from his devotion to the (Zionist) cause." He said that his grave at Gibraltar would become a place of pilgrimage for the Jewish people, while Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, agreed to plant 1,000 trees in Palestine to be named the "Victor Cazalet Grove." A lead article in the New York Herald Tribune'' read: