[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Inertial fusion power plant

ndense to a solid. 
 Foam Wetted targets are made using a variety of carbon-hydrogen foams and filled with liquid DT material cooled to below ~34 Kelvin. 
 Ice targets are made using a variety of carbon-hydrogen foams and filled with liquid DT material cooled to below ~14 Kelvin.

Cryogenic Targets 

There are several ways to get tritium and deuterium into an already-made capsule.  High pressure fills work by putting the shells in a chamber with 1 to 100 Atm of gas pressure and having the gas diffuse into the shell.  Cryogenic foam shells work can work by wicking in the liquid DT fluid into the foam.  This involves getting the delicate shell down in temperature and pressure without damaging it.  This is a stepwise process that can take hours to days in time and requires multiple containment chambers and various kinds of pumps.  At cryogenic temperatures, the DT gas forms into a fluid which can be wicked into the foam shell.  Once filled, operators slowly lower the temperature further to form the ice crystal.  Ice can start formation around the equator of the target and then grow into a complete crystal.  The ice is embedded with the foam shell structure.  Engineers have had problems with ice cracking during this formation process – all of which impacts the performance of the shot.  Monitoring of all of this is done using shadow grams, 360 X-ray diagnostics, visual inspection, and other tools; information is all run through software that gets a complete picture of the target during filling.

Moving Cryogenic Targets 
Keeping an ICF frozen at cryogenic temperatures while delivering it to the chamber for a shot is challenging.  For example, at the Laboratory for Laser Energetics the frozen target is held inside a custom-built, mobile cryogenic cart that can be moved into position under the target chamber.  The cart has a coolant system and vacuum pump to keep the material cold.  This cart holds the frozen target at the end of a "cold finger" which is then raised on an elevator and positioned at the center of the chamber.  When the metal shroud is removed, the cryogenic target is exposed to room temperatures and starts to  sublimate immediately into gas.  This means that laser pulses must coordinate directly with the exposure of the target and everything has to happen quickly to keep the target from melting.

See also 

 Nuclear fusion
 Fusion power
 Inertial electrostatic confinement
 Inertial confinement fusion
 Laser inertial confinement
 Megajoule laser
 National Ignition Facility
 Z-pinch inertial confinement
 Z Pulsed Power Facility
 Project PACER
 List of plasma physics articles

Notes and references

Further reading
   (Université Bordeaux I, November 2005) 
 Tutorial on Heavy-Ion Fusion Energy(Virtual National Laboratory for Heavy-Ion Fusion)
   (November 2003)
   (Fusion Energy Sciences Advisory Committee, March 2004)
   (June 2005)
 Views on neutronics and activation issues facing liquid-protected IFE chambers
 IEEE-USA Position :  Fusion Energy Research & Development(June 2006)

Inertial confinement fusion
Energy development
Nuclear technology
Nuclear power stations
Osaka University research