[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pennsylvania Route 93

w businesses. PA 93 turns northwest onto Berwick Street and runs through more developed areas of the borough. The route leaves Beaver Meadows for Banks Township again and becomes Main Street, passing through wooded areas and the community of Coxes Village as it heads to the northeast of a coal mine.

PA 93 enters Hazle Township in Luzerne County and continues past homes along Main Street. The road widens to a divided highway and comes to an intersection with the eastern terminus of PA 424, which serves as a southern bypass of the city of Hazleton. Past this intersection, the route enters the city of Hazleton and becomes East Broad Street, a three-lane road with a center left-turn lane. PA 93 heads northwest through residential areas before it passes to the northeast of Lehigh Valley Hospital–Hazleton. The road runs past homes and businesses, heading west-northwest and crossing Norfolk Southern's Hazleton Running Track. The route enters the commercial downtown of Hazleton and becomes a four-lane undivided road, with the name changing to West Broad Street at the Wyoming Street intersection. PA 93 comes to an intersection with PA 309 and leaves the downtown area, continuing past homes and businesses. The road passes to the north of a shopping center before it comes to a junction with PA 924. Here, PA 924 turns northwest to form a concurrency with PA 93 and the road enters the borough of West Hazleton as Broad Street, passing homes. The road turns to the north before PA 924 splits from PA 93 by heading east on two-lane Washington Avenue. PA 93 curves northwest and splits from Broad Street to become Susquehanna Boulevard, a five-lane road with a center left-turn lane. The road passes between shopping centers to the southwest and residential neighborhoods to the northeast before it becomes a four-lane divided highway and curves north into a wooded areas, becoming the border between West Hazleton to the west and Hazle Township to the east. The route fully enters Hazle Township and turns northwest, passing businesses and heading to the south of the Laurel Mall. PA 93 heads west and crosses into Sugarloaf Township, running past homes and businesses north of the Valmont Industrial Park. The road passes to the south of the Penn State Hazleton university campus before it comes to an interchange with I-81.

Past the I-81 interchange, the route becomes the Berwick-Hazleton Highway and passes through the community of Black Ridge. The road heads through forested areas and descends a hill as a three-lane road with one northbound lane and two southbound lanes. PA 93 becomes a three-lane road with a center left-turn lane and curves northwest, skirting the western border of the borough of Conyngham as it runs through a mix of fields and woods with some homes and businesses. The road passes through a portion of Conyngham before it heads back into Sugarloaf Township, narrowing to two lanes as it runs through a mix of farms and woods with some development and passes through the community of Sybertsville. The route crosses the Nescopeck Creek in a forested area and passes near more farms before it widens to a four-lane road as it has an interchange with I-80 in an area of businesses. Following this interchange, PA 93 becomes two lanes again and turns west to ascend forested Nescopeck Mountain. While crossing the mountain, the road passes through a corner of Hollenback Township before it enters Nescopeck Township. After descending the mountain, the route heads northwest into farmland with some woods and homes, intersecting the southern terminus of PA 239 near Briggsville. PA 93 continues through rural land with some development, curving to the west and entering the borough of Nescopeck. Here, the road becomes 3rd Street and runs west-southwest past homes and a few businesses, crossing Norfolk Southern's Sunbury Line. The route bends west and is lined with residences before it comes to a junction with the northern terminus of PA 339. The roadway passes through the commercial downtown of Nescopeck before heading back into residential areas and curving southwest into woods.