[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Humanitarian aid during the 2006 Lebanon War

million) in emergency relief for Lebanon.

France
it was announced on July 30 that the French Government had pledged 17.5 million euros ($22.4 million) in aid and is preparing 1 million euros ($1.3 million) of food aid. A boat is also being sent to Lebanon funded by private donations and state aid.

Greece
Announced on 30 July that Greek Government is sending 20,000 doses of antibiotics, as well as various medical aid to Lebanon. On 31 July, the first dispatch of humanitarian aid from Greece to Lebanon landed at Cyprus' Larnaca airport, according to Deputy Foreign Minister Evripidis Stylianidis. The aid will be transferred to a Greek tank-landing vessel docked at the Larnaca port to be shipped to Beirut. Greece's aid pacakge includes nine tons of medical supplies, bedding and tents requested by the Lebanese government from the European Union. "Hellenic Aid mobilised all the NGOs involved in humanitarian aid and the appropriate ministries," Stylianidis noted.

Hungary
Hungary pledged to deliver humanitarian aid worth 6 million forints (about 28,047 U.S. dollars) to Lebanon on 25 July. According to Hungarian foreign ministry spokesman Viktor Polgar, "the aid consists of basic food stuffs, baby food and supplements, medicine and primary care materials needed by doctors."

Ireland
It was announced on July 30 that the Republic of Ireland Government pledged to provide 1 million euros ($1.3 million) in relief assistance for Lebanon and the Palestinian territories.

Jordan
Despite their denouncement of Hezbollah, Jordan supports Lebanon with aid. King Abdullah also ordered relief planes to arrive at the Beirut International Airport, some with several tons of food items and medical supplies to provide help to the Lebanese, and others with an equipped field hospital. Teams from the royal engineering force accompanied the plane to reopen Beirut Airport. The planes are a total of seven since 29 July. Faisal al-Fayez said the impression of the Lebanese people for the opening of the field hospital is great, pointing out that Lebanese Minister of Education and Higher Education Khaled Qabbani opened the field hospital yesterday as it startsed work to relieve the suffering of the brethren Lebanese and to treat the victims of Israeli aggression.

However, there are also reports that some aid from Jordan along with offers of medical assistance has been shunned by some Lebanese citizens in protest at the Jordanian Government's reaction towards the attacks on Lebanon. Other reports also that the medicine sent by Jordan is being stolen and then sold, Lebanese officials claim its people from the Amal movement.

The peace treaty between Jordan and Israel has probably played an important role in the Jordanian initiative of sending relief planes, in fact, countries like the United Arab Emirates are taking advantage of that by using the Amman Airport as the medium of sending their own relief planes to Lebanon. That's because Jordan has opened a safe air passage between Lebanon and Jordan to be used for aid.

A TV station held a telethon to collect aid for the Lebanese and the Palestinians.

Kuwait
Kuwait donated $300 million for reconstruction in addition to an earlier donation of $20 million. Kuwait has also provided $500 million to be deposited in Lebanon's central bank.

Morocco
Morocco sent MAD 6 million ($700,000) worth of humanitarian aid to Lebanon. Morocco also granted $5,000,000 for relief.

Saudi Arabia
Saudi King Abdullah has promised to grant $1.5 billion to Lebanon to pay for reconstruction.

Syria
At the peak of the crisis, some 180,000 people sought temporary accommodation in and around the Syrian capital of Damascus. The Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) and its emergency response affiliate, Focus Humanitarian Assistance (FOCUS) provided immediate humanitarian relief in response to the conflict, establishing a Mother and Child Health Centre at Damascus University campus which provided specialist medical care, a pharmacy and a day care centre for young children. This facility accommodated 1,300 displaced persons; the majority of whom were mothers and young children. In conjunction with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), AKDN and FOCUS established and managed relief distribution warehouses in the key locations of Tartous, Homs and Salamiyah. The agencies also oversaw registration and profiling of displaced persons, and the distribution of non-food items. Furthermore, over 100 local community volunteers were mobilised to provide essential logistical support to the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP). Volunteers distributed relief items including hygiene kits, plastic sheeting, blankets, mattresses, cooking utensils, safe drinking water and high-energy biscuits to assist families during the conflict and also on their return journey to Lebanon.