[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of Battle Angel Alita characters

ther's opposition. The night of Alita's challenge race against Jashugan, Zapan saw the broadcast and was struck by a sudden fear that resulted in him clawing off his second face. He accidentally killed Sara when she tried to stop him and thus became a bounty, being hunted by Murdock for three years.

Murdock finally confronted Zapan in the sewers with his four cyborg dogs, but Alita intervened and gave Zapan the opportunity to attack her while her back was turned and she played a song on a portable keyboard. Zapan could not bring himself to attack and was torn to pieces by Murdock's dogs. However his head survived and was recovered by Barzarld. Desty Nova was able to partially restore Zapan's brain and in response to its deepest desire for revenge, released the safety lock on the Berserker Body to allow the brain to merge with it. However the body went out of control and after fusing with Zapan's brain destroyed Nova's lab and manor, killing Ido who had been there in an attempt to recover the Berserker Body from Nova. Zapan tracked Alita to Bar New Kansas but when he found that she was not there he killed Gonzu and the hunter-warriors who attacked him.  Murdock faced him and allowed Shumira and Master to escape, destroying the bar and dying  in the process, but Zapan survived. He then went on a rampage through the Scrapyard with Factory Army powerless to stop him.  Alita confronted him the following day armed with a Smith & Wesson Model 60 revolver equipped with hollow-point bullets loaded with Collapser nanobots that Nova had developed to destroy the Berserker Body at the molecular level.  Despite a close, tough fight, she was able to fire two rounds into Zapan, which caused the Berserker Body to break down.  Zapan made a last-ditch attempt to absorb Alita, which she thwarted by swallowing some of the Collapser.  Prior to his death Alita saw a vision of him and Sara together in which Zapan expressed regret for what he had done and was forgiven and accepted by Sara.  Before hitting the ground, Zapan's last act was to form a pair of wings to break Alita's fall.  Despite surviving the fight and defeating Zapan Alita was sentenced to death by the Factory for the Class A crime of using a firearm.

Supporting characters

Scrapyard residents

Gonzu

A former cyber veterinarian who now runs a Japanese food shack,  is the closest friend that Ido has in the Scrapyard and is shown visiting Ido at his clinic. He saves Ido after the latter is almost killed by Makaku, and under Ido's direction, transfers Alita from her first cyborg body into the Berserker Body.  Gonzu also helps Ido transplant Hugo's head onto a cyborg body.  A regular at Bar Kansas, Gonzu is the first person killed by Zapan when he goes to Bar New Kansas in the Berserker Body in search of Alita, accidentally blocking the strike aimed at Shumira.

The side story "Seiyakyoku" reveals that six years before Ido found Alita, he saved Gonzu's life when he found him near death in the street. At this time, Gonzu's food shack was a cart that he pulled.  Gonzu aids Ido, who has been rendered homeless, by hosting him and Carol and getting him in touch with the cyberphysician Gauss.

Hugo

; Portrayed by Keean Johnson

Hugo, known in Japan as , is Alita's first love. He is an orphaned teenager who was raised by his much older brother and sister-in-law Nana. He ran away from home after Nana betrayed his brother to the hunter-warrior Clive Lee for building an illegal hot air balloon to attempt to fly to Tiphares.  Since then he has inherited a burning desire to go to the floating city.  He first encountered Vector three years before the start of the main story, when he recognized his brother's hand being sold by one of the latter's dealers, and impressed Vector by voluntarily trading his hand for his brother's, so part of his dead brother can go to Tiphares as well when he goes to there.  Believing that Vector could access Tiphares because of his pull in the Scrapyard, he fell for Vector's offer to get him there if he could bring him 10 million chips.  Hugo ostensibly performs odd maintenance jobs for Scrapyard residents such as Ido, but has taken to illegally supplementing his income by posing along with his accomplices Tanji and Van, as a lubrication crew for cyborgs.  They then ambush and paralyze their victims to steal their spinal columns, as these fetch the highest prices on the black market for body parts.