[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Newcastle town wall

ndon and had folding iron gates, but no portcullis.  Until 1648, it was used as a hall for the Barber Chirurgeons.  It was demolished in 1795.

Sand Gate – This gate led to the riverbank to the east of the town.  It was demolished in 1798.

Until 1695 the Gates were closed at night.

The walls today

Large amounts of the wall were demolished during the 18th and 19th centuries; the most substantial remains are on the western side of the city.  The longest continuous section runs the length of Back Stowell Street, in the Chinatown area.  It includes three towers: Herber Tower, Morden Tower and Ever Tower; since 1964, Morden Tower has been used as a venue for poetry readings.  At the northern end of this section, the wall has been cut through by St Andrew's Street, with fragmentary remains in St Andrew's churchyard, opposite; at the southern end, Stowell Street cuts through onto Bath Lane.  The outer ditch has been recreated along this part of the wall.  From Stowell Street, a complete section of wall, which includes Durham Tower, stretches southeast along Bath Lane, ending close to Westgate Road.  The walls between Westgate Road and St Andrew's Street are known as the West Walls.  Near the river, a partially demolished section of wall is visible on the steep bank between Hanover Street and Close which, between the 1840s and the 1980s, was covered by warehouses.  Another substantial portion of the wall stands north of Hanover Street, adjacent to Orchard Street, and the excavated foundations of Gunner Tower can be seen in Pink Lane.  On the eastern side of the city stand three towers: Plummer Tower in Croft Street, Corner Tower at the junction of City Road and Melbourne Street, and Sallyport Tower in Tower Street.  Plummer Tower was modified by the Company of Cutlers in the 17th century, and the Company of Masons, who added an upper storey and a new western facade, in the 18th century.  Sallyport Tower was altered by the addition of a banqueting hall on the first floor in 1716 which was used by the Shipwrights' Company. The walls are a Scheduled Ancient Monument.

See also
List of town walls in England and Wales

References

External links
Google Earth 3D model of Plummer Tower
Town wall photos
"Around the Town Walls" circular walks leaflet – Includes a plan of the complete medieval wall and the locations of existing wall.

History of Newcastle upon Tyne
Buildings and structures in Newcastle upon Tyne
Tourist attractions in Newcastle upon Tyne
City walls in the United Kingdom
Walls in England
Scheduled monuments in Tyne and Wear
Grade I listed buildings in Tyne and Wear
Archaeological sites in Tyne and Wear