[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Yitzhar

e is an unacceptable means of dealing with lawbreakers in the West Bank. Firm action must be taken against settlers who harm Palestinians and Palestinian property, but this must be carried out through the criminal-justice system and not by issuing administrative orders based on classified material."

After the IDF had razed two buildings in the outpost Mitzpe Yitzhar in December 2011, a mosque in the Palestinian village of Burqa near Ramallah was torched, and "Mitpze Yitzhar", "war", and "price tag" spray-painted in Hebrew on the mosque's exterior wall, and vandals thought to have come from Mitzpe Yitzhar had spray-painted slogans in Hebrew, including "price-tag", "Yitzhar", and comments insulting Muhammad, on the exterior walls of a mosque in the Palestinian town of Bani Na'im.

 2012 
Several incidents occurred in May and June 2012, many of them on Saturdays, the Jewish Sabbath. A video of an incident of Saturday 19 May 2012, released by the Israeli NGO B'Tselem, shows a large number of young men from the settlement of Yitzhar descending towards the nearby Palestinian village of Asira al-Qubliya, young Palestinian men from Asira al-Qubliya coming out to confront the settlers when they approach the village, as well as burning fields later on, and heavily armed Jewish settlers shooting at and wounding a young Palestinian, with Israeli soldiers standing by and doing nothing to prevent the shooting. Yitzhar's spokesman said in a telephone interview with the BBC that "the incident had been started by the Palestinian villagers who ... had deliberately set fire to their own land in order to try and burn down the Jewish settlement", in what he called "arson terror", claiming that the settlers had gone down the hill to try and extinguish the fire, and were "attacked by hundreds of Arab rioters hurling rocks at them". Although it is not possible to tell who started the fire from the videos, it shows that there was no fire burning when the young settlers went down the hill. According to the BBC, the villagers of Asira al-Qubliya point out that it was their fields that were burned, and that the fire was much closer to their own village than to the Jewish settlement. The Israeli military issued a statement saying that it was investigating, and that "it appears that the video in question does not reflect the incident in its entirety".  
A week later, a Palestinian was shot and wounded by a settler from Yitzhar in clashes which started when a group of settlers set fire to fields belonging to the Palestinian village of Urif.

In early June 2012, police opened a criminal investigation into two shootings, in which members of the Yitzhar rapid response security team opened fire in the direction of Palestinians during clashes between settler youths and local Palestinians, and confiscated weapons from five members of the security team. The Israeli NGO B’Tselem, which released video footage of both incidents, accused the IDF and Border Police of refusing to make settlers leave the area and of not acting to protect the Palestinians, but an IDF investigation found that the soldiers had acted correctly.

A Palestinian and an Israeli security guard for the Yitzhar settlement were injured in clashes on 17 December 2012 outside the settlement, after a Palestinian shepherd approached the settlement and a group of Palestinians began hurling rocks at guards and IDF soldiers which responded with riot dispersal means. According to the Israeli NGO Yesh Din, who had a field worker observing the incident, masked settlers had started the clashes by throwing stones.

 2013 
On 1 April 2013, eight Palestinian schoolgirls were reportedly lightly wounded when their bus was attacked by stone-throwing settlers near Yitzhar.

On 30 April 2013, a 31-year-old Yitzhar resident, Eviatar Borovsky, was stabbed to death at the Tapuach Junction by a 24-year-old Palestinian from a village near Tulkarm who had been released some six months earlier from an Israeli jail after serving three years in prison for throwing stones. In retaliation, settlers from Yitzhar reportedly smashed the window of a mosque in the village of Urif and tried to burn it down, set fire to fields in Palestinian villages, and stoned two buses carrying Palestinian schoolgirls, lightly injuring two girls and one of the drivers.