[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Operation Sharp and Smooth

During the 2006 Lebanon War, Operation Sharp and Smooth (), also known as the Baalbek operation, was an Israel Defense Forces (IDF) raid on a hospital in the city of Baalbek, which was being used as a Hezbollah headquarters, and a neighbourhood of the city. The precise objectives of the raid remain classified, but it is known that a number of Lebanese, including Hezbollah and armed Lebanese Communist Party members, were killed, and five Lebanese civilians were arrested and detained in Israel as suspected Hezbollah members, but released after three weeks. The casualty figures for the raid vary. According to inquiries by Human Rights Watch (HRW) and Lebanese authorities 16 Lebanese residents, most of them civilians, were killed. According to IDF ten Hezbollah militants were killed in the attack.

Background 
Operation Sharp and Smooth was one of a number of raids carried out by the IDF during the 2006 Lebanon War ("Operation Change of Direction") against Hezbollah operated medical facilities that the IDF said served primarily as operations bases where "guerrillas planned attacks together with Iranian instructors". By August 2, when the Baalbek operation was over, 15 to 20 similar raids had been carried out according to the IDF. Air strikes on Baalbek, a Hezbollah stronghold, by the Israeli Air Force on July 17 had destroyed petrol stations, Hezbollah offices, a dairy processing plant and resulted in residents fleeing the town. Those that remained reportedly expected another attack.

The operation
The operation began between 9:30 and 10:15 p.m. on August 1 with intensive bombardment around the Dar al-Hikma hospital to cut off all the access roads. The hospital was one of several medical facilities that the IDF believed may have been used to treat or hold the two captured soldiers, Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev, after their abduction by Hezbollah the previous month. Approximately 200 elite commandos fast-roped from helicopters which previously refuelled over the Mediterranean Sea. The operation involved two commando units: Shaldag of the Israeli Air Force, and Sayeret Matkal of the IDF Branch of Intelligence (Aman). Air cover was provided by attack helicopters, jet fighters and unmanned drones. At least 10 bombing runs were carried out around the hospital and on hills east and north of Baalbek according to witness reports.

Upon landing, the two units split up. The Sayeret Matkal unit proceeded to the Dar al-Hikma hospital in the Jamaliyah suburb of Baalbek, known for its connections to Hezbollah and believed by Israeli Military Intelligence to be a base for Iranian Revolutionary Guards. According to local residents, the Hezbollah-run hospital was financed by an Iranian charity, the Imam Khomeini Charitable Society. The hospital was empty at the time, the patients having been transferred to other hospitals, or sent home four days earlier.

The Israeli force occupied the hospital. According to HRW, IDF commandos shot and killed a nurse who was trying to flee and wounded two armed security guards during the take-over. Two armed Hezbollah fighters were killed outside the hospital while engaging the Israelis, one by a missile from a drone and the other by small arms fire. Based on Hezbollah "martyr" posters that later appeared around the village of Al Jamaliyeh, HRW concluded that the nurse and the two militants may have been the only Hezbollah-affiliated people killed in the raid.

A group of local residents were alarmed by the sound of fighting and assembled at the house of the local mukhtar. Two of the men were armed members of the Lebanese Communist Party (LCP) and a third was an unarmed member of the group. An Israeli helicopter fired a number of missiles at the group, killing all three LCP militants as well as three unarmed men. According to an assessment by Human Rights Watch the two armed militants were to be considered combatants and therefore legitimate targets. HRW further noted that the two combatants endangered the lives of the civilians by mixing with them. The unarmed men killed in the attack were faulted for mixing with combatants during an Israeli military operation. HRW thus considered them to be collateral casualties to a legitimate Israeli military strike."

At approximately 3.30 a.m. on 2 August, an Israeli Apache helicopter fired a missile at a Syrian Kurdish seasonal agricultural worker and his family, one of five families of farmers who been sheltering in their tents since the raid began, when the family left their tent and ran for shelter at a Lebanese house nearby. The father Talal Chibli (40), his wife Maha Sha`ban (32) and their children Muhannad (13), Muayyad (12), Asma’ (6), and Muhammad (4) were killed or died later of their wounds. Three of the family's children, Muthana (9), Mus`ab (5), and Batul (8 months), were seriously wounded but survived. According to HRW the family "had no links to Hezbollah and were not participating in the hostilities".