[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lanzhou Campaign

sion stationed in the northern bank of the Yellow River back to Xining to strength the defense of the provincial capital of Qinghai.  The nationalist defense of Lanzhou was further weakened as a result.

On August 24, Ma Bufang reported that the Communists were defeated and 10,000 of them were dead.

Second stage
After thorough preparation, the communist II and XIX Corps attacked the city again on August 25, 1949, at dawn, and by dusk, the nationalist stronghold at Southern Mountain outside the city fell into the enemy hands.  After suffering heavy casualties, the nationalist morale collapsed and the defenders outside the city fled inside and Ma Jiyuan (), the nationalist commander-in-chief of the Shaanxi-Gansu Corps fled to Xining in the evening, abandoning most of his troops.  In the morning of August 26, 1949, a detachment of the communist 3rd Army took Western Pass () of the city and then took the Iron Bridge on the Yellow River, thus successfully cutting off the only escape route of the defenders, while other enemy detachments also managed to successfully breaching the defense of the city and begun fierce street fights with the remaining nationalist garrison.  By 11:00 AM, the communist 4th Army took White Pagoda Mountain (Bai Ta Shan, ) on the northern bank of the Yellow River and an hour later, the last nationalist resistance within the city wall was eliminated and the city was firmly in the enemy hands.  After the completion of the mop up operations in the suburb on the next day, the enemy formally declared the city was secured on August 27, 1949.

The 5,000 Chinese Muslim defenders in Lanzhou inflicted 10,000 casualties upon the Communist 2nd army during the six-day battle.

In order to relieve the besieged city, the nationalists organized several futile reinforcement attempts: nationalist commander Hu Zongnan ordered four armies to launch an offensive on  August 27, 1949, from southern Gansu toward regions including Xihe and Li Counties in Gansu, and Baoji, Duo Town (Duo Zhen, ) in Shaanxi, in the hope of taking Baoji and Tianshui, thus forcing the enemy to stop the attack on Lanzhou and reinforce these regions.  However, as the news of the fall of Lanzhou was learned, the nationalist offensive fell apart as the nationalist morale immediately collapsed, and the futile offensive was beaten back by the communist XVIII Corps on the same day it was launched.  Learning the news of the fall of Lanzhou, other nationalist reinforcement also immediately withdrew:  Ma Hongkui's nationalist 81st Army withdrew back to Ningxia and Ma Bufang's nationalist 91st Army and the nationalist 120th Army retreated to Hexi Corridor.

Outcome
The fall of Lanzhou cost the nationalists more than 42,000 troops, nearly half of the total nationalist force in the northwestern China.  The fall of the largest city in northwestern China to the PLA completely demoralized the nationalists and triggered a disastrous domino effect:  after taking Lanzhou, the 62nd Army of the XVIII Corps and the communist I Corps without its 7th Army continued its push toward Xining, and from August 28, 1949, thru September 5, 1949, the communist I Corps had crossed the Yellow River at Yongjing ( ) in Gansu and Xunhua ( ) in Qinghai, and took Minhe, and Hualong, threatening Xining.  Ma Bufang and his only son Ma Jiyuan ( ) fled to Chongqing by air, and Xining fell to the PLA on September 5, 1949.  The remaining 2,000 survivors of Ma Bufang's troops surrendered to the PLA after they fled to Huangzhong and Haiyan regions, and the entire Qinghai province fell to the PLA by the mid of September, 1949. Beiping Radio announced the capture of Lanzhou on August 27, 1949.

After the Lanzhou campaign, the airstrips of the Gansu corridor came under Communist control.

For decades, the communists have willfully decreased their number of losses by agreeing with their nationalist adversary's claim of inflicting more than 8,700 casualties on the communists in Lanzhou Campaign.  It was not until the late 1990s did the communists finally begun to admit their real loss which is higher than they had originally claimed by publicizing the Peng Dehuai's telegram to Wang Zhen on August 28, 1949, in which the real communist losses were given when Peng Dehuai asked Wang Zhen to inform He Long that the communist casualties was in fact just below 11,000.  However, the communist victory did open the gateway to Ningxia and Xinjiang, and paved the way for the following victories in the northwestern China.

See also
List of battles of the Chinese Civil War
National Revolutionary Army
History of the People's Liberation Army
Chinese Civil War

References