[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Mandel

on".

Mandel was the only non-student asked by its founders to sit on the Steering Committee of the Free Speech Movement in Berkeley, California in the early 1960s.

In 1968, he signed the "Writers and Editors War Tax Protest" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War.

Mandel's radio program on KPFA was, during its later decades, titled The Soviet Union: A Closer Look Until the early 1970s, Mandel was a vocal supporter of the 1968 Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia on this program. During the 1970s and 1980s he vigorously denied the existence of state-directed anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union, disputing from personal experience the decades of scholarly research and the testimonies of Soviet emigres in the Bay Area, dissidents like Nobel prize winner Joseph Brodsky and the quotas on Jewish students. His common refrain during KPFA broadcasts was "the Soviet Union is 100 races living together in harmony". Mandel's denial of Soviet governmental anti-Semitism was maintained as late as his 1985 book "Soviet but not Russian: The Other Peoples of the Soviet Union" which stated that at most 10% of Soviet Jews would want to leave the Soviet Union. Approximately 290,000 Jews left the Soviet Union from 1970 to 1988, when emigration was restricted; over 224,000 left in 1990 alone, the first full year when emigration was liberalized.

In January 1982, Mandel wrote an article in the Stanford Daily supporting the coup of Polish General W. Jaruzelski which imposed martial law as an attempt to crush the Solidarity trade union.

In 1992 he served as the consulting editor to the production of "The Rise and Fall of the Soviet Union Trading Cards: From Lenin to Yeltsin," a history of the USSR in the form of a series of baseball cards, written by David Thorpe and illustrated by Greg Copeland.

Mandel died on Thanksgiving Day, November 24, 2016 at the age of 99 at his home in Kensington, California.

Writings

The introduction to Mandel's autobiography, Saying No To Power, was written by the left-wing historian and author Howard Zinn. The book was praised by, among others, author and senior editor of The Black Scholar, Robert L. Allen, musician and activist Pete Seeger and poet Lawrence Ferlinghetti.

The Hoover Institution Archives, Wisconsin Historical Society and the Bancroft Library at the University of California have collections of Mandel's papers.

Books
’The Soviet Far East and Central Asia’, Institute of Pacific Relations, 1944
A Guide to the Soviet Union, The Dial Press, 1946
Soviet Marxism and Social Science reprint Ramparts Press, 1984, 
Russia Re-Examined, 1967
Soviet Women, Anchor Books, 1975, 
Soviet But Not Russian: The ‘Other’ Peoples of the Soviet Union, Palo Alto, Calif.: University of Alberta Press and Ramparts Press, 1985, 
Saying No To Power, Berkeley: Creative Arts Book Company, 1999,

References

External links
 
 William Mandel talks to John Whiting about his life and work, included in MY KPFA: A Historical Footnote (Seventy-five hours of programs and interviews from the 1960s)

1917 births
2016 deaths
Writers from New York City
Activists for African-American civil rights
American communists
American male journalists
American radio journalists
American foreign policy writers
American male non-fiction writers
American political writers
Writers about the Soviet Union
American autobiographers
Victims of McCarthyism
American tax resisters
Pacifica Foundation people