[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Miguel Ángel Virasoro (physicist)

mulation of string theory which introduced new bosonic and fermionic symmetries into physics."

From 2011 until his death, Virasoro was an honorary professor at the Universidad Nacional de General Sarmiento in his home country of Argentina. Virasoro died on July 23, 2021, at the age of 81.

Research

String theory 
Much of Virasoro's early work helped found a branch of theoretical particle physics which would later be understood as string theory. In 1968 while Virasoro was in Israel, his colleague Gabriele Veneziano discovered a formula (the Veneziano amplitude) which described the scattering of open strings. Then in 1969 during his time at University of Wisconsin-Madison, Virasoro successfully generalized Veneziano's theory and discovered a formula (the Virasoro-Shapiro amplitude) which described the scattering of closed strings. At the time, the formulas of Veneziano and Virasoro were understood in terms of so-called dual resonance models. Only later was their work understood to describe strings.

Soon after his discovery of the Virasoro-Shapiro amplitude, Virasoro introduced what became known as the Virasoro algebra. The Virasoro algebra is an infinite-dimensional Lie algebra which describes the conformal symmetry of the worldsheet of a string embedded in spacetime. A supersymmetric generalization of this algebra, the super Virasoro algebra, describes the super conformal symmetry of the worldsheet of a supersymmetric string (or superstring). Pedagogical introductions to the Virasoro-Shapiro amplitude and the Virasoro algebra may be found in David Tong's introductory lectures on string theory.

Several mathematical concepts related to Lie algebras and conformal field theory are named after Virasoro. These include the Virasoro vertex operator algebra, the Virasoro group, the Virasoro conjecture, the Virasoro conformal block, and the Virasoro minimal model.

Spin glasses 
While working in Italy, Virasoro studied spin glasses and other systems in statistical mechanics. Together with Italian physicist Giorgio Parisi and French physicist Marc Mézard, Virasoro discovered the ultrametric organization of low-temperature spin glass states in infinite dimensions.

References

1940 births
2021 deaths
Theoretical physicists
String theorists
Argentine scientists
Argentine physicists
Scientists from Buenos Aires
Academic staff of the Sapienza University of Rome
University of Buenos Aires alumni
Enrico Fermi Award recipients
Italian physicists