[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Civilian casualties during Operation Allied Force

ted that 488–527 Yugoslav civilians died as a result of NATO bombing. The report also criticized Pentagon and NATO officials for a lack of attention to the issue of civilian deaths, suggesting "a resistance to acknowledging the actual civilian effects and an indifference to evaluating their causes."

 NATO strategy and claims 
From the very beginning of Operation Allied Force, minimizing civilian casualties was a major declared NATO concern. According to NATO, consideration of civilian casualties was fully incorporated into the planning and targeting process. All targets were "looked at in terms of their military significance in relation to the collateral damage or the unintended consequence that might be there," General Shelton said on April 14: "Then every precaution is made...so that collateral damage is avoided." According to Lt. Gen. Michael Short, "collateral damage drove us to an extraordinary degree...[and] committed hours of [my] day dealing with the allies on issues of collateral damage." "There is always a cost to defeat an evil," said NATO spokesman Jamie Shea, "It never comes free, unfortunately. But the cost of failure to defeat a great evil is far higher." He insisted NATO planes had bombed only "legitimate designated military targets," and if more civilians had died it was because NATO had been forced into military action. He then defended this notion by stating, "NATO does not attack civilian targets, we attack exclusively military targets and take every precaution to avoid inflicting harm on civilians."

 See also 
Casualty recording
Humanitarian Law Centre
Civilian casualties during the NATO intervention in Libya

Notes
 Zmaj Jova street is named after Jovan Jovanović Zmaj. Serbian variations of nouns are such that the street is spelled as "Zmaj Jove" (as opposed to having an "a" letter at the end) in the context of the sentence in the OK Radio'' article on the Milić family from Surdulica.
 There are multiple villages in the former Yugoslavia named Lužane. The Lužane bus bombing took place in a village called Lužane by Podujevo in Kosovo. However, there is another village also called Lužane located near Aleksinac, although that is not where the Niš-Ekspres bus was bombed.

References

Sources

External links 
NATO's bombing blunders (BBC)
Civilian Deaths in the NATO Air Campaign - The Crisis in Kosovo (HRW)
List Of Incidents Involving Civilian Deaths in Operation Allied Force (HRW)
SELECT CHRONOLOGY OF NATO ATTACKS, MARCH 24-MAY 7, 1999 (HRW)

Kosovo War

Serbian war casualties
Serbia–United States relations
 
Incidents involving NATO
People killed during the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia