[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pennsylvania Route 150

A 26 and runs along the northwestern shore of Foster Joseph Sayers Reservoir. The route enters Liberty Township and passes through more of the state park. After leaving the park boundaries, the road heads into agricultural areas and passes near the residential community of Blanchard.

Clinton County

PA 150 crosses the Beech Creek into the borough of Beech Creek in Clinton County and heads east as Main Street, passing homes and a few businesses. The route enters Beech Creek Township and becomes Eagle Valley Road, running past more residences before turning northeast into agricultural areas with some woods and homes. The road continues into Bald Eagle Township and runs through more rural areas before passing a few areas of residential development. PA 150 curves to the east and crosses the Bald Eagle Creek, passing a mix of homes and businesses as it heads into the borough of Mill Hall. The road passes more commercial establishments, becoming the border between Bald Eagle Township to the north and Mill Hall to the south before intersecting the northern terminus of PA 64. At this point, the route becomes Hogan Boulevard, crossing Fishing Creek and fully entering Bald Eagle Township again. PA 150 widens into a four-lane divided highway and comes to an interchange with the US 220 freeway, heading into business areas. The road becomes a three-lane road with a center left-turn lane as it heads northeast past more commercial establishments. 

The route turns north and narrows to two lanes, crossing the Bald Eagle Creek and briefly running through Allison Township before heading into the borough of Flemington. At this point, PA 150 turns north-northeast and becomes High Street, a three-lane road with a center left-turn lane that is lined with several homes. The road heads into commercial areas and turns northeast onto Bellefonte Avenue, crossing into the city of Lock Haven. The route continues into more residential areas before entering the commercial downtown of Lock Haven, where it narrows to two lanes and crosses Norfolk Southern's Buffalo Line. PA 150 becomes a one-way pair that follows two-lane East Church Street northbound and two-lane East Main Street southbound, heading east through more of the downtown and intersecting PA 120. The one-way pair heads past homes, with northbound PA 150 heading north on North Washington Street to join southbound PA 150 on two-lane, two-way East Main Street. The route passes more residences before passing near William T. Piper Memorial Airport and turning northeast to cross the West Branch Susquehanna River into Woodward Township. At this point, the road becomes Woodward Avenue and passes homes and businesses in the community of Dunnstown. PA 150 curves to the east and passes more homes, crossing into Dunnstable Township, where it heads into wooded areas with a few residences. The road curves northeast and runs through a mix of farmland and woodland. Upon crossing into Pine Creek Township, the route enters more wooded areas and passes through the residential communities of Chatham and Charlton, turning to the east. PA 150 heads through more rural residential areas before turning south onto Carl Kephart Boulevard and ending at a diamond interchange with the US 220 freeway.

Major intersections

See also

References

External links

Pennsylvania Highways: PA 150

150
Transportation in Centre County, Pennsylvania
Transportation in Clinton County, Pennsylvania