[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Suit of coins

most likely representing a fine material status. Her robe is decorated with flowers, and a hooded falcon rests at ease on her arm. Falconry is an ancient sport which has been very popular among aristocrats and rulers of the past. The woman holds her falcon comfortably—without much excitement or fear (falcons are predators, after all)—which suggests she is well familiar with the wealth and power that this sport represents and feels comfortable with it. It is also noteworthy to mention that the falcon is hooded, meaning “not engaged” to pursue its prey. This suggests that the woman is aware of her power but chooses to keep it controlled. She knows her power and also knows how and when to apply it, which is a sign of wisdom. A young snail, denoted by a blue shell, makes its way across her path. She is unaware of its potentially fatal proximity. When upright, it means being abundant, sophisticated, wise and successful. 
The Ten of Coins orders the coins according to the structure of the kabbalistic Tree of Life. It depicts an old man with a bodyguard talking to a woman. It is often associated with family matters, financial matters or a mix of the two. Some sources associate it with affluence or even riches. It may reflect a working environment. In the Thoth Tarot deck this card is labeled Wealth, and is associated with the third decan of Virgo, a Sign said to be ruled by Mercury, the third decan is ruled by Venus.
The Page of Coins is often used to represent a young person. 
The Knight of Coins can be used to represent a young man who is dark of complexion and features. This combines the symbolism of dark completion with the suit of coins, and teenage/young adult males with knights. The card may also represent someone who is stubborn or hard-working, serious, or set in their ways. One might also use this card when someone is grappling with a question where one of those issues is coming up—when they have a question about work or home life, or a question about whether to stand their ground on an issue. Tarot's Knights, with the exception of the Knight of Swords, represent defensiveness. The Rider–Waite deck added armour to the traditional depictions (e.g. the Marseilles Tarot) of these Knights as well as disarming them. The Knight of Coins may therefore represent being materially defensive or guarding one's health. 
The Queen of Coins is described as "Sensual and earthy, she enjoys abundance in many areas of her life. A lover of luxury, she is quick to share her wealth". The Queen of Pentacles can indicate fertility or a pregnancy. Like all court cards, the Queen of Coins is commonly interpreted to refer to a person playing some role in the life of the questioner; although it may represent the inquirer. Queens are said to represent mother figures and adult women, or young women mature for their years; women of knowledge and wisdom. She can also be a business woman, a patron of the arts, a provider, or one that works hard for material success. She is a maternal, nurturing, down-to-earth person, who is concerned with the welfare of others, especially those she cares for. The interpreted physical characteristics of the suit of coins include dark hair and eyes, dark complexions and sturdy build. In the Reversed aspect, this Queen neglects her responsibilities, keeping up appearances regardless of circumstances.
The King of Coins depicts a mature man of considerable earthly power, usually depicted as a diplomatic business-man with a lot of practical wisdom. The king of pentacles can be miserly at times. He has a taste for sensual delights and earthly gifts. Here is a man who has a social standing and is big on keeping up with the Joneses. On the downside, he can be a man of phenomenally huge ego, the one whom the querent dare not cross. The card depicts a man who can help the querent grasp the social and practical knowledge that he needs to acquire wealth or respectability. As with the rest of the court cards, the appearance of this card may signify contact with a person of this high stature. It does not necessarily indicate material riches to the querant, unless this has been further supported by other cards. The Rider–Waite deck depicts a man sitting on a black throne adorned with a gold bull. Grapes appear on his clothes, and a castle is in the background.

Card images in the Rider–Waite tarot deck

See also 
 Coins - suit of Latin (Italian/Spanish) playing cards

References

 Hanson-Roberts, Mary. The Essential Book of Tarot, 2002