[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vested Property Act (Bangladesh)

o showed that the beneficiaries of the land grab through the act cut across all party lines. The political affiliation of direct beneficiaries of appropriated property was:
 Bangladesh Awami League 44.2%
 Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) 31.7%
 Jatiya Party 5.8%
 Jamaat-e-Islami 4.8%
 Others 13.5%

The greatest appropriation of Hindu property took place immediately after independence during the first Awami League government (1972–75) and during the first period of rule of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (1976-1980). Barkat's work also showed that since 1948, 75% of the land of religious minorities in East Pakistan and subsequent Bangladesh had been confiscated through provisions of the act.

Barkat also emphasized that less than 0.4% of the population of Bangladesh has benefited from the Enemy Property Act, demonstrating that this law has been abused by those in power through corruption, with no demonstrated sanction by the population at large.

Effect on Bangladeshi demographics

The law in its implementation has been seen as a factor behind the reduction of the Bangladeshi Hindu population percentage, which has declined from an estimated 30% in 1947, to 17% in 1965 to 16% today, representing a loss of around 11 million people.

Repeal of the act

During Bangladesh's first three decades of independence many politicians made empty promised to repeal the act. The first government of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman vowed to repeal any laws that contradicted the values of the newly liberated country; the Enemy Property Act contravened non-communal provisions of the new constitution. But instead of being repealed it was sustained under a new name in 1974.

Finally in the run up to the 2001 election Sheikh Hasina and the Awami League succeeded in a drive to repeal the act. The Vested Properties Return Act (2001) was implemented (in a session boycotted by the opposition BNP and Jamaat members) in an effort to make amends for the confiscated property. However little progress has been made in returning or compensating lost property under the Khaleda Zia government from 2001 to 2006.
In 2008, [HRCBM (Human Rights Congress for Bangladesh Minorities)]  filed a writ before Bangladesh Supreme Court under article 102 of the constitution.

References

Further reading
 Abul Barkat, Azizur Rahman, Shafique uz Zaman, Avijit Poddar: Impact of vested property act on rural Bangladesh: an exploratory study. Prepared for Association for Land Reform and Development, Bangladesh. Dhaka: University Research Corporation. 1996.
 Abul Barkat (ed.): An inquiry into causes and consequences of deprivation of Hindu minorities in Bangladesh through the Vested Property Act: framework for a realistic solution. Dhaka: PRIP Trust. 2000.
 Deprivation of affected million families: Living with Vested Property in Bangladesh, Abul Barkat, forthcoming.

External links

 
  An article on Vested Property Act on the website of the Human Rights Congress for Bangladesh Minorities
  Article on internal displacement of Bangladeshi Hindus on IDMC website

Forced migration
1974 in Bangladesh
Repealed Bangladeshi legislation
Partition of India
Economic warfare
Persecution of Bengali Hindus