[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Heshui Campaign

anized 82nd Division
Garrison Group (Regiment) of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division
Gansu 2nd Security Regiment
Attackers: communist order of battle
359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column
Independent 4th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column
Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column

Second stage
The detachments of communist 2nd Column under the command of Wang Zhen crossed Meridian Ridge and approached the town of Heshui. The 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column was assigned to take the town while the Instructional Brigade and the Independent 4th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column were tasked to ambush the reinforcement. As the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade reached the Wormwood Grass Shop (Hao Cao Pu, ) area of Luo Er Plateau (Luo Er Yuan, ) region 10 km from Heshui, the communist scouts ahead were ambushed by the local nationalist cavalry on patrol.  In a brief but fierce battle, a communist scout was captured alive by the nationalist cavalry.  The communists feared that their plan was to be compromised, and attempted to rescue the captured scout, but Luo Er Plateau was a place extremely difficult to take but very easy to defend due to its terrain, and the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column was forced to abort their futile attempts and move to the planned destination. The attackers therefore lost the element of surprise. At 4:00 AM on May 28, 1947, the 717th Regiment of the 359th Brigade made contact with nationalist garrison of Heshui to the northwest of the town, and all nationalists outside the town soon retreated behind the city wall. The commander of the Heavy Weaponry Battalion of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division, Ma Shengzhi (), radioed the headquarters of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division at the town of Western Peak, claiming that the battle had already been raged on.  By the evening of May 28, 1947, Ma Shengzhi radioed for help again, claiming that large enemy force was approaching the town of Heshui.

The enemy attackers were headed by Guo Peng (), the commander of the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column.  The 12th Regiment of the Independent 4th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column was also sent to join the assault on the town.  The 717th Regiment of the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column attack the town from northwest, while the 718th Regiment of the 359th Brigade and the 12th Regiment of the Independent 4th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column attacked the town from the east, and the 719th Regiment of the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column was kept as reserve.  However, the attacking communists were prevented from approaching the city wall, and it was not until the morning when the attacking enemy discovered why: the city wall extended toward a plateau to the northwest of the town, and defenders atop of the city wall on this plateau had perfect firing positions that could effectively block any attackers' advance toward the town.  The defenders had deployed not only mortar and anti-tank guns, but several heavy machine guns as well.  After futile attacks that lasted for an entire day and night, the attackers finally realized that this extension must be taken but with the current strength they had, they were simply unable to achieve this impossible task, and Guo Peng, the commander of the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column, who was in the southwestern suburb of the town directing the battle, and he had no choice but to deploy the reserve, the 719th Regiment of the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column ahead of schedule to attack the extension.  By the noon of May 29, 1947, the 718th Regiment of the 359th Brigade and the 12th Regiment of the Independent 4th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column were able to take nationalist strongholds in the east and south just outside the city wall, and Eastern Pass (Dong Guan, ) of the town fell into the 718th Regiment of the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column by the afternoon.  After preparation, the 719th Regiment of the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column launched its assault on the northwestern extension of the nationalist defense, but the defenders would not let them succeed: while the enemy was busy attacking, the defenders sent out a large force via tunnels to counterattack the attacking enemy from behind, and inflicted heavy casualties on the communist attackers, which was forced to halt their attack.