[Source: Gutenberg#36 | Part 41]
# The Prince — Machiavelli

. A hoof missed my brother’s foot by
a hair’s breadth. He released his grip on the fallen man and jumped
back. He saw anger change to terror on the face of the poor wretch on
the ground, and in a moment he was hidden and my brother was borne
backward and carried past the entrance of the lane, and had to fight
hard in the torrent to recover it.

He saw Miss Elphinstone covering her eyes, and a little child, with all
a child’s want of sympathetic imagination, staring with dilated eyes at
a dusty something that lay black and still, ground and crushed under
the rolling wheels. “Let us go back!” he shouted, and began turning the
pony round. “We cannot cross this—hell,” he said and they went back a
hundred yards the way they had come, until the fighting crowd was
hidden. As they passed the bend in the lane my brother saw the face of
the dying man in the ditch under the privet, deadly white and drawn,
and shining with perspiration. The two women sat silent, crouching in
their seat and shivering.

Then beyond the bend my brother stopped again. Miss Elphinstone was
white and pale, and her sister-in-law sat weeping, too wretched even to
call upon “George.” My brother was horrified and perplexed. So soon as
they had retreated he realised how urgent and unavoidable it was to
attempt this crossing. He turned to Miss Elphinstone, suddenly
resolute.

“We must go that way,” he said, and led the pony round again.

For the second time that day this girl proved her quality. To force
their way into the torrent of people, my brother plunged into the
traffic and held back a cab horse, while she drove the pony across its
head. A waggon locked wheels for a moment and ripped a long splinter
from the chaise. In another moment they were caught and swept forward
by the stream. My brother, with the cabman’s whip marks red across his
face and hands, scrambled into the chaise and took the reins from her.

“Point the revolver at the man behind,” he said, giving it to her, “if
he presses us too hard. No!—point it at his horse.”

Then he began to look out for a chance of edging to the right across
the road. But once in the stream he seemed to lose volition, to become
a part of that dusty rout. They swept through Chipping Barnet with the
torrent; they were nearly a mile beyond the centre of the town before
they had fought across to the opposite side of the way. It was din and
confusion indescribable; but in and beyond the town the road forks
repeatedly, and this to some extent relieved the stress.

They struck eastward through Hadley, and there on either side of the
road, and at another place farther on they came upon a great multitude
of people drinking at the stream, some fighting to come at the water.
And farther on, from a lull near East Barnet, they saw two trains
running slowly one after the other without signal or order—trains
swarming with people, with men even among the coals behind the
engines—going northward along the Great Northern Railway. My brother
supposes they must have filled outside London, for at that time the
furious terror of the people had rendered the central termini
impossible.

Near this place they halted for the rest of the afternoon, for the
violence of the day had already utterly exhausted all three of them.
They began to suffer the beginnings of hunger; the night was cold, and
none of them dared to sleep. And in the evening many people came
hurrying along the road nearby their stopping place, fleeing from
unknown dangers before them, and going in the direction from which my
brother had come.




XVII.
THE “THUNDER CHILD”.


Had the Martians aimed only at destruction, they might on Monday have
annihilated the entire population of London, as it spread itself slowly
through the home counties. Not only along the road through Barnet, but
also through Edgware and Waltham Abbey, and along the roads eastward to
Southend and Shoeburyness, and south of the Thames to Deal and
Broadstairs, poured the same frantic rout. If one could have hung that
June morning in a balloon in the blazing blue above London every
northward and eastward road running out of the tangled maze of streets
would have seemed stippled black with the streaming fugitives, each dot
a human agony of terror and physical distress. I have set forth at
length in the last chapter my brother’s account of the road through
Chipping Barnet, in order that my readers may realise how that swarming
of black dots appeared to one of those concerned. Never before in the
history of the world had such a mass of human beings moved and suffered
together. The legendary hosts of Goths and Huns, the hugest armies Asia
has ever seen, would have been but a drop in that current. And this was
no disciplined march; it was a stampede—a stampede gigantic and
terrible—without order and without a goal, six million people unarmed
and unprovisioned, driving headlong. It was the beginning of the rout