[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

s city park system, which eventually included 1,100 acres; built steps and esplanade along the Susquehanna River, which still exist today as Riverfront Park; paved seventy miles of roads; and improved the city water system. The city's population increased from 51,000 to 73,000 between 1900 and 1920.

A high point of Harrisburg's City Beautiful movement was the construction and dedication of a new and expensive capitol building. Originally expected to cost $5 to $10 million, the cost had risen to $12.5 million when dedicated in 1906 ($4 million of which was for graft; $850 was spent for a $150 flagpole, for example). Five people, including the architect and chief contractor, received prison terms. The dedication of the Capitol was held on October 4 and attended by US President Theodore Roosevelt.Until about 1915, Dock and J. Horace McFarland continued to campaign for more funds to be put toward these improvements, and the citizen boards of Harrisburg continued to vote in favor of the project through 1914. The City Beautiful movement was viewed as a great success during its time, prompting many other cities to attempt to emulate it. However, the Old Eighth Ward was eliminated in order for many of these plans to be enacted, displacing one of the most diverse communities in Harrisburg.

20th century
The Pennsylvania Farm Show, a major annual agriculture exposition, was first held in 1917 and has been held every January since. The present location of the Show is the Pennsylvania Farm Show Complex & Expo Center, on the corner of Maclay and Cameron streets.

On February 14, 1964, the Harrisburg Area Community College (HACC) was founded as the first community college in Pennsylvania in the former Harrisburg Academy. In March 1965, the City of Harrisburg sold the college  in Wildwood Park for a permanent campus. Construction of the academic buildings was completed in 1967. HACC now has additional campuses in Lebanon, Lancaster, Gettysburg, and York, besides the main campus in Harrisburg (now called the Wildwood Campus).

In June 1972, Harrisburg was hit by another flood from the remnants of Hurricane Agnes.

On March 28, 1979, the Three Mile Island nuclear plant, down the Susquehanna River from Harrisburg, suffered a partial meltdown. Although the meltdown was contained and little of radiation was released, there were still worries that an evacuation would be necessary. Governor Richard Thornburgh recommended an evacuation of pregnant women and preschool children who lived within 5 mi (8 km) radius of the plant. Although only about 5,000 people covered by this recommendation, 140,000 people fled the area.

After Harrisburg suffered years of being in bad shape economically, Stephen R. Reed was elected mayor in 1981 and served until his unexpected primary defeat in 2009 by Linda D. Thompson, which made him the longest-serving mayor of Harrisburg. Once elected, Reed immediately started projects which would attract both businesses and tourists. Several museums and hotels, such as the National Civil War Museum and the Hilton Harrisburg and Towers, were built during his term, along with office buildings and residences. Several semi-professional sports franchises, including the Harrisburg Senators of the Eastern League, the defunct Harrisburg Heat indoor soccer club, and the Harrisburg City Islanders of the USL Second Division, began operations in the city during his tenure as mayor.

However, Reed also spent public bond proceeds pursuing interests including collecting Civil War and Wild West memorabilia—some of which was found in Reed's home after his arrest on corruption charges. Infrastructure was left unrepaired, and the heart of the city's financial woes was a trash-to-electricity plant, the Harrisburg incinerator, which was supposed to generate income but instead, because of increased borrowing, incurred a debt of $320 million.

21st century
In October 2011, Harrisburg filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy when four members of the seven-member City Council voted to file a bankruptcy petition in order to prevent the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania from taking over the city's finances. Bankruptcy Judge Mary France dismissed the petition on the grounds that the City Council majority had filed it over the objection of Mayor Linda Thompson, reasoning that the filing not only required the mayor's approval but had circumvented state laws concerning financially distressed cities.

Instead, a state-appointed receiver took charge of the city's finances.  Governor Tom Corbett appointed bond attorney David Unkovic as the city's receiver, but Unkovic resigned after only four months. Unkovic blamed disdain for legal restraints on contracts and debt for creating Harrisburg's intractable financial problem and said the corrupt influence of creditors and political cronies prevented fixing it.