[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Luis Suárez

he rare distinction of being the leading scorer in three top-flight European leagues, a feat only matched by Ruud van Nistelrooy and Cristiano Ronaldo. An accurate finisher with either foot, despite being naturally right-footed, he is capable of scoring from both inside and outside the penalty area.

Harry Redknapp said that Suárez could play anywhere – as the target man or behind as a second striker. Uruguay head coach Óscar Tabárez called Suárez "a great forward, an elite player among forwards in the world", and Liverpool coach Kenny Dalglish said, "he's intelligent, he's had a fantastic education at Ajax". Former Liverpool striker John Aldridge said his abilities allow him to get into a position to score and evade defenders. Meanwhile, Thierry Henry called Suárez the best striker in the world, stating, "He has everything. He's in your face, he's arrogant- in a good way, he can volley it, he can score headers. He has vicious side to his game and I will not call it cheating. He knows how to score goals."

Suárez has been praised for his work rate, movement, and his quickness that allows him to attack from the outside; as such he occasionally played as an inverted winger on the left flank during his time with Ajax. Additionally, Suárez has a liking for often executing dummies (going around the defenders with a fake-out) within his style of dribbling. During his time in Barcelona, he was known for constantly scoring through volleys or half-volleys. Suárez also gained a reputation for consistently scoring acrobatic goals, often shooting off balance, or in air, or with overhead bicycle kicks. Moreover, he is an accurate free kick taker, and has also been known to take penalties.

He also creates many scoring opportunities for his teammates with his vision and great passing abilities, as is reflected in his numbers of assists, among the very highest within the stat's recorded history. Former Liverpool captain, Steven Gerrard, lauded Suárez's unselfish playstyle within his autobiography, stating how that "It's a rare combination, to be a miraculous footballer who is willing to use his gifts to selflessly assist and create goals for a teammate", as well as further writing, "He scores goals. He creates goals. He's hard and horrible to play against. You've got a chance of beating anyone in the world with Luis Suárez in your team".

In addition to being a prolific player, Suárez has often been praised for his strong mentality and desire to win. Former Liverpool teammate, Jordan Henderson dubbed Suárez as a "warrior", claiming that his attitude inspired confidence among his teammates. Meanwhile, Gerrard eulogized his drive to succeed, stating "Luis played to win a five-a-side training session like he was chasing the Champions League or the World Cup. If his team lost a kickaround he went home angry; he always needed to win that badly". Atletico Madrid coach, Diego Simeone hailed Suárez for the "desire and energy" he brought to the club. Suárez, himself, has stated that he's the kind of player who would "kill himself just to prevent a throw-in at the 90th minute." in his autobiography.

Former Ajax coach Marco van Basten criticized Suárez for his tendency to receive yellow cards. Van Basten said he had a tense relationship with Suárez, although he conceded that "Luis is unpredictable, he's hard to influence but that makes him special." At times, Suárez can be dominant but fail to convert his efforts into goals. Despite his weaknesses, Suárez's leadership stood out to Ajax management.

Controversies 
Suárez has been widely accused of diving. His manager, teammates and various analysts have commented that this reputation for simulation has caused referees not to award him legitimate penalties. In January 2013, Suárez admitted to diving against Stoke City in an October 2012 match. This led his manager Brendan Rodgers to comment his actions were "unacceptable" and that he would be dealt with "internally" by the club. During the 2018 World Cup game against Portugal, after collisions with Portuguese players, Suarez twice acted like he had a head injury despite his head having been untouched.

Suárez is infamous for biting opponents on multiple occasions. In a Group D matchup at the 2014 FIFA World Cup, Suarez was shown to have bitten Italian defender Giorgio Chiellini, resulting in FIFA suspending Suarez from all football activities for 4 months. While playing for Liverpool, Suarez bit Chelsea player Branislav Ivanović in a Premier League match, and was punished with a ten match ban. In an earlier incident while playing for AFC Ajax he was caught biting PSV Eindhoven player Otman Bakkal and was suspended for seven games. Suárez has also been accused of stamping on opponents in the Premier League and the UEFA Europa League.