[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nancy Segal

ar on behavior genetics and evolutionary psychology to graduate students in the Department of Psychology at CSU Fulleron. She has sponsored undergraduate and graduate research projects involving original twin research designs and methods.

Personal life
Segal has a twin sister, Anne.

Selected works

Books
Segal's book, Born Together-Reared Apart: The Landmark Minnesota Twin Study, was published by Harvard University Press in June 2012.  It surveys the origins, methods, findings and controversies from the Minnesota Study of Twins Reared Apart.  Another of her books is Someone Else's Twin: The True Story of Babies Switched at Birth, published in 2011 by Prometheus. It tells the story of identical twin girls born in Spain's Canary Islands, one of whom was accidentally exchanged for a singleton infant. The twins were reunited at age twenty-eight.  The book also includes research on twins reared apart and information on several other switched at birth twin cases. Segal is also the author of Indivisible by Two: Lives of Extraordinary Twins (Harvard University Press). This collection of essays on twelve twin, triplet and quadruplet sets brings together humanity and science in a unique way. She is also the author of Entwined Lives: Twins and What They Tell Us About Human Behavior (E. P. Dutton, 1999). This survey of twins and twin research includes chapters on the biology of twinning, twin research methodology, findings on intelligence, personality, mental disorders and athletic prowess, studies of twin relationships, information on twins raised apart, findings on "pseudo-twins" or same-age unrelated children raised together, non-human twinning, new fertility treatments, life histories of noteworthy twins, legal issues involving twins, conjoined twins and a survey of nature-nurture issues. With G. E. Weisfeld and C. C. Weisfeld, Segal is the co-editor of Uniting Psychology and Biology: Integrative Perspectives on Human Development (American Psychological Association Press, 1997). This book, which resulted from a festschrift in honor of her mentor Professor Daniel G. Freedman at the University of Chicago, brings together a series of current papers on behavioral-genetic, ethological, cultural and evolutionary approaches to human behavior.

Articles and essays
Segal's papers have appeared in journals, such as American Psychologist, Child Development and Science. She has received research grants from the National Science Foundation, the American Psychological Association and the Olfactory Research Fund, Ltd. She was named a Dean's Faculty Scholar for the Spring, 1999 semester. She addressed the National Organization of Mothers of Twin in St. Louis, in 1999, the New Zealand Organization of Mothers of Twins in 2000, and 2007.

References

External links
 Official website
 PubMed listings for Segal NL

American women psychologists
Evolutionary psychologists
American science writers
Writers from Boston
California State University, Fullerton faculty
Human Behavior and Evolution Society
1951 births
Living people
20th-century American psychologists
Behavior geneticists
21st-century American psychologists
20th-century American women scientists
21st-century American women scientists
Scientists from Boston
Women science writers
21st-century American non-fiction writers
21st-century American women writers
American women geneticists
American geneticists