[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Federico Higuaín

Federico Fernando Higuaín (; born 25 October 1984) is an Argentine former professional footballer who played as a forward and attacking midfielder. He is currently the head coach for MLS Next Pro club Inter Miami II.

He played 157 games and scored 35 goals in the Argentine Primera División for River Plate, Nueva Chicago, Independiente, Godoy Cruz and Colón between 2003 and 2012. He also had brief spells in Turkey with Beşiktaş J.K. and Mexico with Club América in 2007–08.

In 2012, he signed for the Columbus Crew for a then club-record fee of $650,000 USD, and won the MLS Newcomer of the Year Award in his first season. He made nearly 200 appearances and scored over 50 goals for the club, helping them to the Eastern Conference title in 2015.

Early life
Higuaín was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, the son of the Argentine former footballer Jorge Higuaín. Higuaín has three brothers, including Gonzalo, who is a former footballer. He is of Basque descent through his father.

Club career

Early career
Higuaín signed with River Plate as a youngster, playing 5 games and registering no goals. He soon went on loan to Nueva Chicago in the Argentine second division, where he played 77 total games, scoring 29 goals. He also impressed during stints at Godoy Cruz and Colón de Santa Fe.

In August 2007, Higuaín signed a three-year contract at Beşiktaş J.K. of the Turkish Süper Lig, for a US$1.65 million fee. He did not settle in Istanbul, and the following February he was loaned to Mexico's Club América.

Columbus Crew
On July 27, 2012, Higuaín joined the Columbus Crew as the team's third-ever designated player, for a then club-record fee of $650,000 USD. His debut came on August 19 as a substitute against the Houston Dynamo, where he assisted Eddie Gaven's go-ahead goal with a well-placed ball over the top just 13 minutes later. Only three days later, he earned his first MLS start against Toronto FC and, in the fourth minute, once again set up a Gaven opener before notching the winning goal himself. The following match, which took place on August 26, saw him score two goals from free kicks in a thrilling 4–3 victory over the New England Revolution. For his performances over his first several matches, Higuaín was named the Major League Soccer Player of the Week for weeks 25 and 26 of the 2012 Major League Soccer season The season came to an end with him netting both goals in a 2–1 victory against Toronto FC on the final matchday.

To begin the 2013 season, Higuaín scored in a 3–0 opening-day victory over Chivas USA on 2 March. On 10 August, he scored in a 2–0 victory over New York Red Bulls with a chip from well outside the penalty area that was voted Goal of the Week, and in the next match, a 2–0 win over Toronto FC, he chipped the goalkeeper from .

Following the 2014 Major League Soccer season in which Higuaín tallied a team-leading eleven goals and seven assists, he was signed to a new contract, the most lucrative deal ever given by the Crew at the time.At the time of signing his new contract, Higuaín had been ranked fifth in the league in goals, first in penalty kick goals, and one of only eight players to score double-digit goals in the previous two seasons since entering the league.

In 2015, Higuaín scored eight goals and provided nine assists during the MLS regular season, while in the playoffs, he won the Eastern Conference Championship with Columbus, only to lose the MLS Cup Final to Portland, following a 2–1 home defeat. The following season, Higuaín had a disappointing year, scoring only four goals and adding three assists in just 20 appearances, as the Crew missed out on the playoffs. While many pundits expected him to leave the next season, as his contract was expiring, he signed a one-year extension, and in 2017, he helped Crew to qualify for the playoffs and reach the Eastern Conference finals.

On 25 May 2019, in a game against the Colorado Rapids, Higuaín was injured, and subsequently received anterior cruciate ligament surgery, ruling him out for the remainder of the season. On 21 October 2019, Columbus Crew's president and general manager, Tim Bezbatchenko, announced that the club decided not to extend his contract for the next season.

D.C. United 
On 2 March 2020, Higuaín joined D.C. United as a player and Player Development Coach. On 13 July 2020, he made his first appearance in an "MLS is Back" tournament match against Toronto FC. With D.C. United losing 2–0 and at a man disadvantage due to a first-half ejection, Higuaín came on as a substitute in the 80th minute and scored on a breakaway in the 84th minute. D.C. United added a second goal in injury time to force a 2–2 draw.