[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sorcerian

n, Sorcerian Additional Scenario Vol. 3 – Pyramid Sorcerian
Developed by Amorphous: Sorcerian New Scenario Vol. 1 – The Visitor from Outer Space, Selected Sorcerian 1, Selected Sorcerian 2, Selected Sorcerian 3, Selected Sorcerian 4, Selected Sorcerian 5
Developed by Quasar Soft: Gilgamesh Sorcerian

Music
The soundtrack to the original Sorcerian was composed by Yuzo Koshiro, Mieko Ishikawa, Reiko Takebayashi, Hideya Nagata, and Takahito Abe. The Falcom-developed Additional Scenarios were handled solely by Ishikawa. The music for the original Sorcerian was arranged by Kenji Kawai for the PC Engine CD release. Rob Atesalp and Ken Allen converted the original score to be a MT-32 MIDI-compatible arrangement of the soundtrack for Sierra Entertainment's English version of the game.

Soundtrack releases for Sorcerian include:
Music from Sorcerian: The original score to the PC-88 version of the game.
All Sounds of Sorcerian: The original sound again, this time in the form of medleys for each scenario, along with two arranged tracks.
Sorcerian Super Arrange Version: A series of three albums featuring arrangements by Hiroyuki Namba. Volume 1 contains a set of arrangements from the base scenario of Sorcerian. Volume 2 contains arrangements from the base scenario and Additional Scenario Vol. 1, along with the original sound of Additional Scenario Vol. 1. Volume 3 contains arrangements and the original sound from Additional Scenario Vol. 2 and Vol. 3.
Perfect Collection Sorcerian: A set of 3 2-disc albums containing various arrangements of the base Sorcerian soundtrack, similar to the Perfect Collection Ys album series.
Sorcerian Forever I & II: Two albums containing upgraded versions of the Sorcerian base scenario soundtrack, similar to the Music from Ys Renewal releases.

Reception
In 1990, Famicom Tsūshin (now Famitsu) reviewed Sega Mega Drive (Genesis) version of the game, giving it a generally positive score of 27 out of 40.

In the July 1990 edition of Games International (issue 16), Theo Clarke was disappointed in this game, calling the animation "rudimentary", and that there was "little realism in the game". He thought it was far more an arcade game than a role-playing game, and awarded it a below average rating of only 6 out of 10, calling it "a well-preserved museum piece".

In the October 1991 edition of Computer Gaming World, Scorpia noted it has "an interesting feature or two" and liked the game's division into many miniquests, stating that instead "of the usual long adventure, this one sports fifteen separate small quests" which "allows for a certain amount of variety". However, she disliked the magic system, and stated "the action is arcade in style, which is typical for a Japanese game, and some will find this irksome" but noted "this is not just hack-and-slash, as there are puzzles to be solved along the way". Scorpia concluded that Sorcerian was a "good for a change of pace" for those comfortable with "arcade" action.

During production of PlatinumGames title Scalebound, game designer Hideki Kamiya said he was inspired by Sorcerian as well as Hydlide 3. He noted the influence of Sorcerian's fantasy theme, "gigantic monsters", different scenarios, "expansive possibilities", "tons of adventures" and enemies such as a hydra boss and "lots of amazing dragons".

References

External links
Official website for Sorcerian Original
Official website for the iOS version via Internet Archive
 Falcom's catalog pages for: Sorcerian forever, Sorcerian Premium Kit, Shichisei no Mahou no Shito, Sorcerian MIDI Collection via Internet Archive
 

1987 video games
Action role-playing video games
DOS games
Dragon Slayer (series)
IOS games
MSX2 games
NEC PC-8801 games
NEC PC-9801 games
Nihon Falcom games
Role-playing video games
Sega Genesis games
Sharp X1 games
Side-scrolling role-playing video games
Sierra Entertainment games
Single-player video games
TurboGrafx-CD games
Video games developed in Japan
Video games with gender-selectable protagonists
Video games scored by Kenji Kawai
Video games scored by Yuzo Koshiro
Video games with expansion packs
Virtual Console games
Windows games