[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Via Giulia

the palace was completed in 1575. In 1600 Spanish missionaries acquired the palace and sold it to the Cisterna family at the beginning of the 20th century. It was partially sold to the Ducci family in the second half of the 20th century.

9 Santa Caterina da Siena in Via Giulia (Via Giulia ad. 151)

The history of this church is closely linked to the Sienese Brotherhood. A community of merchants, bankers and craftsmen from Siena had been living in what was to be Via Giulia, where at that time stood the castrum Senense since the 14th century. In 1519 the Brotherhood was canonically erected by Leo X. In 1526 they commissioned Baldassare Peruzzi to build the church in honour of their saints, an oratory, and a house for the clerics. The funds were provided by the Sienese nobility in Rome, particularly by the Dean of the College of Cardinals Giovanni Piccolomini and the banker Agostino Chigi, who alone donated 4,000 scudi. Since it was in a dilapidated state, it was rebuilt between 1766 and 1768 according to Paolo Posi's designs, while the interior decor was completed in 1775. The Archconfraternity of the Sienese still owns the building today. During Via Giulia's 500th anniversary of the street in 2008 the altarpiece by Girolamo Genga has been restored.

10 Palazzo Varese (Via Giulia 14-21)
The palace opposite Santa Caterina da Siena was built between 1617 and 1618 by Carlo Maderno on behalf of Monsignor Diomede Varese. In 1788 Monsignor Giuseppe degli Atti Varese gave the building to the Congregation Propaganda Fide when his family line died out. After exchanging owners several times the palace finally came into the possession of the Mancini family.
The front consists of two upper floors and a mezzanine, and is divided by several axes of irregularly spaced windows, which testify how the building was born by merging several pre-existing edifices. On the ground floor is the main portal and above it is a balcony on consoles, flanked by three windows each. The portal opens into the yard with three loggie, the first on arches, while the others have their entablature that rests directly on the columns. The yard originally opened to a garden by the river, now lost because of the closing of the Tiber side.

11 Sant'Eligio degli Orefici (Via di Sant'Eligio 9)

The small church is off the Via Giulia and serves as the guild church of the Roman gold- and silversmiths. Its construction is attributed to Raphael, although it is possible that after the death of the artist it was finished by Baldassare Peruzzi.

12 Palazzo del Collegio Spagnolo (Via Giulia 151)
The Palacio de Monserrat by Antonio Sarti and  Pietro Camporese was built in 1862 by the will of Queen of Spain Isabella II and today is the Spanish High Centre for Ecclesiastical Studies. The centre is attached to the Spanish National Church of Santa Maria in Monserrato on the Via di Monserrato behind it, and its history is closely connected with that of the church. The erection of the college was the only major intervention in the construction of the road in the 19th century. 

13 Liceo Statale Virgilio (Via Giulia No 35 ff.)
One of the most important state school complexes in Rome was built between 1936 and 1939 by Marcello Piacentini. The building complex between Via Giulia and the Lungotevere dei Tebaldi includes the façade of the Collegio Ghislieri, designed by Carlo Maderno (16th century) and the church of the Santo Spirito dei Napoletani.

14 Palazzo Ricci (Via Giulia 146)
The present building was originally a cluster of unconnected buildings, built at different times, opposite the Collegio Ghislieri. The building complex was merged in 1634 and 1684. The main façade facing Piazza de'Ricci shows strongly faded remains of a graffito by Polidoro da Caravaggio and Maturino da Firenze (16th century). On the side facing Via Giulia, a continuous façade gave the complex its present uniform appearance.

15 Santo Spirito dei Napoletani (Via Giulia ad. 34)