[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Craig J. Spence

Craig J. Spence (October 25, 1940 – November 10, 1989) was an American journalist, lobbyist, and socialite who committed suicide in 1989 in the wake of a Washington Times exposé reporting on his involvement in a prostitution ring and in blackmail.

Background
Spence attended Syracuse University and began his journalism career working for WCBS in New York City. He would eventually become a correspondent for ABC News. During the Vietnam War, he covered Southeast Asia, but in 1969 he was banned by the government from reporting in Vietnam after which ABC relocated him to Tokyo. There he also found work as a freelance reporter and as a stringer for Britain's Daily Mail. Spence spent about a decade in Tokyo during which he made prominent connections at a time of great economic growth. He began doing public relations consulting for the government-supported Japan External Trade Organization and Japanese corporations.

Spence arrived in Washington D.C. in the late 70s and soon become a fixture of Washington high society leading to a 1982 feature in the New York Times which remarked that Spence's "personal phone book and party guest lists constitute a Who's Who in Congress, Government and journalism." Guests at Spence's lavish parties were known to include William Safire, John N. Mitchell, Phyllis Schlafly, James Lilley, Alfred M. Gray, Joseph diGenova, and Roy Cohn.

In January 1985, Spence registered with the U.S. State Department as a foreign agent for Japan and began lobbying for Japanese interests.  Throughout the 1980s, Spence built a reputation as an influential lobbyist who represented many Japanese concerns and established close friendships with a number of leading Japanese politicians, including Motoo Shiina, considered by Tokyo analysts to be an inside favorite to replace scandal-plagued Sōsuke Uno as prime minister.

Spence was close friends with journalist Liz Trotta who wrote extensively about Spence in her memoirs. The two met in 1966 at Leonard Bernstein's home and the two later found themselves working as war correspondents during the Vietnam War. Trotta later recalled the various personalities she would see at his Washington D.C. parties including Ted Koppel, William Casey, and Eric Sevareid. Trotta also recalled going on one of Spence's midnight tours of the White House, which would later gain extensive media coverage.

Vinson prostitution ring

Spence's name came to national prominence in the aftermath of a June 29, 1989, front-page headline article in The Washington Times identifying Spence as a major customer of a homosexual escort service which had been raided in February and was now under investigation by the Secret Service, the District of Columbia Police and the United States Attorney's Office for suspected credit card fraud. The ring was being operated by a man named Henry Vinson who had been using a funeral parlor to launder the money being made. Clients included 'key officials of the Reagan and Bush administrations' and Spence was mentioned by name. The newspaper said he spent as much as $20,000 a month on the service.

Spence had also been linked to a White House guard named Reginald deGueldre who allowed Spence and his friends to take late-night White House tours. Among the guests in Spence's midnight tours of the White House were two male prostitutes. A White House probe regarding the tours led the Secret Service to furlough three guards, but it was also publicly stated that the First Family's security was never threatened, and it was explained that security guards were allowed to give private tours. President Bush was made aware of the scandal.

A follow-up article featured reports from Spence's friends and guests indicating that Spence's home was wired up with extensive surveillance equipment and that he would attempt to entice guests into sexual encounters with prostitutes to use as blackmail. One male soldier reported that he had been enticed into an encounter with a female prostitute by Spence, who then used photos of the tryst in order to blackmail him into 'beating up a couple of guys.' When the soldier afterwards refused to have sex with Spence, Spence showed the pictures to the soldier's wife, leading to the couple's separation.

Spence entered a downward spiral in the wake of the exposé, increasingly involving himself with call boys and crack. He disappeared briefly, evading government agents who wanted to subpoena him to testify about the Vinson prostitution ring. Spence made headlines again after his arrest on July 31, 1989, at the Barbizon Hotel on East 63rd Street in Manhattan for criminal possession of a firearm and criminal possession of cocaine.