[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# 2007 New Year Honours

ion. For services to disabled people.
Roger David Verdon Knight, lately Secretary and Chief Executive, Marylebone Cricket Club. For services to Sport.
Harmesh Lakhanpaul, Director, Peterborough Race Equality Council. For services to Community Relations.
James Hugh Callum Laurie, Actor, Writer and Director. For services to Drama.
Pamela Joan, Mrs. Lee, Pathfinder Manager, Jobcentre Plus, Department for Work and Pensions.
Dr. Elizabeth Jane Leese, Senior Medical Officer, Department of Health.
Dr. Richard John Light, Director of Research, Disability Awareness in Action. For services to disabled people.
Ms Nusrat Mehboob Lilani, Creator, Asian Women of Achievement Awards. For charitable services. 
Michael Joseph Liston, Chief Executive, Jersey Electricity Company. For services to the Electrical Industry and to Charity.
Simon Piers Dominic Loftus, lately Chairman, Adnams. For services to Business.
David Cecil Lovell, lately Head of Public Affairs, Ordnance Survey, Department for Communities and Local Government.
Brian Lymbery, Chair, Lewisham Primary Care Trust. For services to Healthcare and to the community in Lewisham, London.
Professor Stuart Gowans Macpherson, Chair, Scottish Modernising Medical Careers Implementation Group. For services to Medicine in Scotland.
Peter John Malim, Grade B2, Ministry of Defence.
Ian Mason, Chair, Scottish Swimming. For services to Sport.
The Reverend John Clyne Matthews, Deputy-Chair, Scottish Enterprise Glasgow. For services to Economic Development.
Dr. Anne Christine McCartney, Director, Regional Microbiology Network, Health Protection Agency, London. For services to Public Health.
Clare Imogen, Mrs. McCarty, Chief Executive, Clanmil Housing Association Limited. For services to Social Housing in Northern Ireland.
Bertha, Mrs. McDougall, Interim Commissioner for Victims and Survivors. For services to the community in Northern Ireland.
John Fraser McIvor, Chief Executive, Lincolnshire Primary Care Trust. For services to the NHS.
Dr. Joseph McKee, Principal, City of Belfast School of Music. For services to Music.
Ms Mary McKee, Director, Groundwork Northern Ireland. For services to the Environment and to Community Relations.
Robert Francis McMinnis, Head of Tourism, Agency Liaison and Equality Division, Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment, Northern Ireland Executive.
Andrew McMorran, Principal, Ashfield Boys' High School, Belfast. For services to Education in Northern Ireland.
Professor Geoffrey Peter Meen, Professor of Applied Economics, Department of Economics, University of Reading. For services to Social Housing.
Professor Stephen Henry Miller, lately Deputy Vice-Chancellor, City University. For services to Higher Education and to the Olive Tree Project.
Dr. Stuart Kinnaird Monro, Scientific Director, Our Dynamic Earth. For services to Science.
Christopher Moody, Principal, Moulton College, Northampton. For services to Further Education and to Training.
Isobel Margaret, Mrs. Morris, Director, Southwark and Child and Adolescent Services, South London and Maudsley NHS Trust. For services to Mental Health Care.
Ms Elizabeth Joyce Moseley. For services to Youth Justice.
Richard John Murphy. For services to Architecture. 
Rupert Gerald Nunes Nabarro, Founder, Investment Property Databank. For services to the Property Industry.
Ms Kate Louise Nash, lately Chief Executive, Royal Association of Disability and Rehabilitation. For services to disabled people.
Ernest Milwyn Nock. For services to Victim Support and to the community in Worcestershire and Herefordshire.
Martin Lawrence Norfield, ESOL Adviser, Skills for Life Strategy Unit, Department for Education and Skills.
Provost Patrick O'Brien, J.P., Provost, East Lothian Council. For services to Local Government.
Kevin O'Sullivan, Chair, O'Sullivan and Graham. For services to Civil Engineering Overseas.
Brian David Orrell, Trade Union Leader, British Maritime Professionals. For services to Seafarers.
Patricia, Mrs. Osborne, Grade 7, Department of Health, Social Services and Public Safety, Northern Ireland Executive.
Graham Frederick Payne, Director, RAPID UK. For services to International Rescue.
Dr. Henry James Pearson, Managing Consultant, Detica Ltd. For services to the Ministry of Defence.
Angela Mary, Mrs. Pedder, Chief Executive, Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital. For services to the NHS. 
Dennis Gordon Pepler, Technical Inspector, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Frank Joseph Perkins, J.P., H.M. Principal Inspector of Health and Safety, Health and Safety Executive, Department for Work and Pensions.
Thomas Stuart Peryer, Director of Education, London Diocesan Board for Schools. For services to Education.
Lynette Elaine, Mrs. Phillips, lately Chair, London Black and Ethnic Minority Network for NHS Staff and Allied Health Professionals. For services to Healthcare.
Dr. Mike Phillips, Writer and Broadcaster. For services to Broadcasting.
Steven Charles Pimlott, Theatre and Opera Director. For services to Drama.
Professor Coli