[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Encounter (magazine)

d already, as early as 1952, in his writings in Commentary during the McCarthy years, set the tone for the neo-populist critique of liberal "new class" elites he would later seed during his almost forty-year stint (1965–2002) as founding co-editor of The Public Interest, the public-policy quarterly.

Stephen Spender and the English literary legacy 
Stephen Spender cut a larger figure in strictly cultural circles, though with strong political engagements of his own – he was, at 44, one of England's leading men of letters of his generation, having been a prime constituent of the 1930s "MacSpaunday" generation of young English poets whose other members included Louis MacNeice, W.H. Auden, and C. Day Lewis. During his brief Communist phase in the 1930s, he had served in the Spanish Civil War with the anti-Franco International Brigades and later contributed to the essay collection The God That Failed (1949) edited by Richard Crossman. The other contributors who had become disillusioned with Communism included Louis Fischer, André Gide, Arthur Koestler, Ignazio Silone, and Richard Wright; Koestler and Silone would in turn become from its outset regular contributors to Encounter. Spender's apprenticeship in the editor's chair had come over a decade before when he served as deputy to the English aesthete Cyril Connolly in editing, for its first two years, the influential literary monthly Horizon (1940–49), many of whose writers would show up in Encounter in due course throughout the 1950s and after.

Spender's range of cultural contacts, in and out of the academic world, combined with the high-stakes sense of Cold War cultural mission driving the Paris-based CCF, enabled Encounter to publish, especially during its first fourteen years prior to the revelation of the early CIA funding and the defections so provoked, an international range of poets, short-story writers, novelists, critics, historians, philosophers and journalists, from both sides of the Iron Curtain. The long tail of the Bloomsbury, World War I, and Bright Young Things generations of the early 20th century was a marked feature of the early years of Spender's tenure as the editor of the Encounters literary pages, with contributors such as Robert Graves, Aldous Huxley, Nancy Mitford, Bertrand Russell, Edith Sitwell, John Strachey, Evelyn Waugh, and Leonard and Virginia Woolf – Virginia in posthumous diary form, her surviving husband Leonard as a political essayist and reviewer.

Oxbridge and London academics 
Encounter provided a prime forum for academics from the colleges of Oxford, Cambridge, and London Universities—Isaiah Berlin, Hugh Trevor-Roper, and A. J. P. Taylor among them—who discussed European history and the intellectuals helping to shape it. Trevor-Roper used the magazine as an outlet for his attacks, one on Arnold Toynbee's bestselling ten-volume Study of History, and on The Origins of the Second World War by A. J. P. Taylor.

Early outings by Encounter belletrists came when Nancy Mitford and Evelyn Waugh playfully debated over successive issues the fine points of upper-class vs. lower-class English usage ("U and non-U"), as did C. P. Snow and others, if less playfully, Snow's depiction within of a yawning chasm of mind between the "Two Cultures" of the hard sciences and the humanities. Among the magazine's early luminaries in aesthetics and the history of art were Stuart Hampshire and Richard Wollheim.

Political contours 
On the political side of Encounter, Kristol brought on board many members of the group usually known as The New York Intellectuals, both journalist, literary and polemical or social-scientific, among whom he had passed the years of his apprenticeship: the sociologists Daniel Bell and Nathan Glazer, who, respectively, would later serve as his successive co-editors (and, like Spender, political foils, especially in Bell's more pronounced case) at The Public Interest, Sidney Hook, and, not least, the ideological hummingbird and scourge of "Midcult" Dwight Macdonald, who spent a year (1955–56) in London as associate editor, a tenure with which he would later attempt to make a retrospective reckoning in his "Politics" column in Esquire for June 1967 in what he would describe several months later as his "Confessions of an Unwitty CIA Agent". Mainline Americans for Democratic Action-style left-liberal Democrats such as Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. and John Kenneth Galbraith rounded out the American contours in politics, while the early English contributions in politics came largely from the social-democratic, anti-Communist, anti-unilateral nuclear disarmament wing of the Labour fold, as represented  by C.A.R. Crosland (Anthony Crosland) (a close friend of Daniel Bell), R.H.S. Crossman (Richard Crossman), and David Marquand, with occasional contributions from Conservative journalists such as Peregrine Worsthorne and the young Henry Fairlie broadening the coverage.