[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Premawathie Manamperi

vidence, that SI Wijesuriya had a major role to play in her unlawful arrest, there were no investigations conducted against him. Furthermore, investigations have revealed that these army officers failed to arrest any actual JVP rebels, except Manamperi and the other girls who were proven not guilty.

Aftermath
Manamperi's body was exhumed on 24 May 1971 and an inquest was held. The case was later referred to the Galle Criminal Court by the Hambantota Magistrate. The case was heard by Supreme Court judge D.Q.M. Sirimanne. The murder suspects, Lieutenant Alfred Wijesuriya and Amaradasa Ratnayake, a member of the volunteer force, were brought to trial. He was found guilty of attempted murder on 17 April 1971, by shooting her with a sub-machine gun. The two accused were sentenced to 16 years of imprisonment in 1973. Wijesuriya died of a heart attack a year later in prison. in 1988, Ratnayake was killed at his home in Devinuwara by the suspected JVP hit team at Matara as a punishment for the murder of Premawathi.

Remembrance 
In 1979, a memorial was built in Kataragama to commemorate her death that portray various events of her life and her inhumane death. This shrine was built as a merit to her as pilgrims who visit Kataragama could quench their thirst by drinking water from the clay pot fixed to it. However, later the memorial was vandalized and now is believed to be destroyed.

Sri Lankan singer and songwriter, Anton Jones (3 June 1937 – 21 February 2016) whose songs were based on real incidents such as 'Rukmani Devi' (popular Sri Lankan film actress and singer), 'Maru-Sira'(controversial passing away of a death-row prisoner) wrote a song based on Manamperi's death as well. The title of the song is 'Premawathi Manamperi Tharuniya'.

Furthermore, a movie named 'Nahi Werena Verani' was filmed based on Manamperi's brutal killing. Director Dharmasiri Wickremaratne used the original case recordings to create the plot line of the movie. The role of Premawathi was acted by Sangeetha Weeraratne, while Sanath Gunathilake played the role of the Army officer Lieutenant Wijesuriya. The role of Army General in the film was played by the veteran actor Joe Abeywickrema.

Although not mentioned by name, allusions to Manamperi have been made in the 2022 Booker Winner, The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida by Sri Lankan author Shehan Karunatilaka as Miss Kataragama 1970 and as the Defiled Beauty Queen.

1977 election 
Her murder attracted national attention and was an issue in the 1977 election. UNP candidate J. R. Jayewardene discussed the attack in great detail and condemned Sirimavo Bandaranaike's handling of the crime to discredit his opponent.

Further reading

See also 
 Rex De Costa

References

Deaths by firearm in Sri Lanka
Sri Lankan murder victims
1949 births
1971 deaths
People murdered in Sri Lanka
1971 murders in Sri Lanka
1971 in Ceylon
Deaths by person in Asia
Incidents of violence against women
1971 crimes in Ceylon
April 1971 events in Asia
Violence against women in Sri Lanka