[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sadigura (Hasidic dynasty)

stic style of his Torah. He was named for his forefather, Rabbi Aharon of Karlin. There are many similarities between the two Rabbis, including their identical lifespan of exactly 36 years and six months each. Chassidim refer to him as the Kedushas Aharon, after the sefer that records his teachings.

Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov II
Rabbi Avrohom YaakovII was the younger brother of Rabbi Aharon, and the fifth son of Rabbi Yisoel. He served as an atlternate Rebbe in Sadigura during the life of his eldest brother, and in Vienna and Tel Aviv during the tenure of his nephew. He is called the Abir Yaakov by Chassidim, and his title is "Rebbe of Sadigura-Tel Aviv".

Rabbi Mordechai Shalom Yosef
Rabbi Mordechai Shalom Yosef of Sadigura-Pshemisyl was the only child of Rav Aharon, and the youngest to serve as Sadigura Rebbe. He was sixteen years old when he assumed leadership of the dynasty. He began his tenure in Sadhora, and then moved the Pshemishyl where he established a shul and yeshiva. He then moved to Vienna where his uncles lived. He relocated to the Crown Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn, where he led his rabbinical court until he migrated to Tel Aviv. He built his Beis Medrash there, and established the Sadigura Institutions in nearby Bnei Brak. He was a leading Rabbi in the Agudah, serving the organization until the end of his life. He was the longest serving Sadigura Rebbe, having led the dynasty for more than 66 years. Chassidim call him the Knesses Mordechai, after his sefer.

Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov III
Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov III was the second son of Rav Mordechai Shalom Yosef, and the fifth Rebbe of Sadigura. Prior to his father's passing, he served as Rosh Yeshiva in the Sadigura Yeshiva established by his father. He was also a senior member of the Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah of Agudas Yisroel. He relocated the chassidus's headquarters to B'nei Brak after serving in Tel Aviv for approximately two decades. Chassidim call him Der Rebbe Der Ikvei Abirim.

Rabbi Yisroel Moshe
Rabbi Yisroel Moshe, known as "Der Sadigura Rebbe Zatzal" was the third child and only son of Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov III. He established the Kehilla of Sadigura-London, which he led personally until his coronation as rebbe upon his father's passing. He assumed his father's positions in Sadigura and on the Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah, which he held for seven and a half years until his early passing in 2020 at age 65. It was during his tenure as Rebbe that the Ruzhyner's Hoif in Sadhora was rededicated. His teachings are recorded in Ateres Yisroel, Abirei Yam, and Yalkut Imrei Kodesh-Sadigura.

Rabbi Mordeche Shalom Yosef
Rabbi Mordeche Shalom Yosef Known as the Current Sadigura Rebbe Shlita is the oldesr son of rabbi Yisrael Moshe, and resides in Yerushaliaim. He is accepted world wide as the rightful hier to the Sadigura-Rushin Dynasty based on his fathers will.

Image gallery

See also 

 History of the Jews in Poland
 History of the Jews in Galicia (Central Europe)
 History of the Jews in Ukraine

References

External links
 Sadigura Rebbe on a Trip to Kivrei Tzaddikim in Ukraine
 Photo Gallery of Sadigura Rebbe and his followers
 Video of the sixth Sadigura Rebbe, Yisrael Moshe Friedman, at his last Purim tish in 2020 with his chasidim in Los Angeles, California.

Further reading
 Leo Bruckenthal. Geschichte der Juden in der Bukowina ("History of the Jews in Bukovina"), Hugo Gold: Tel Aviv, 1962, pp. 98–105.

Chernobyl (Hasidic dynasty)
Hasidic dynasties
Hasidic Judaism in Israel
Bukovina Jews
Jewish Galician (Eastern Europe) history
Ruzhin (Hasidic dynasty)