[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Military conquests of Umar's era

k for reinforcements. The caliph then sent 'Ubadah with 4,000 reinforcements. Thus in his letter, Umar wrote as following:

{{Blockquote|I have sent you a  of 8.000 warriors. It consist of 4,000 , each of 1,000 was led by four figures wherein each of these men strength are equal to 1,000 soldiers'}}

Those 4 commanders were two veteran Muhajireen, Zubayr ibn al-Awwam and Miqdad ibn Aswad; a young Ansari commander named Maslama ibn Mukhallad al-Ansari; and veteran Ansari Ubadah ibn al-Samit. However, Baladhuri, Ibn al-Athir and Ibn Sa'd recorded that the four commander were consisted purely Qurayshite consisting Zubayr, Busr ibn Abi Artat, Umayr ibn Wahb, and Kharija ibn Hudhafa. There are differing opinions regarding the number of soldiers which Zubayr brought: some said it numbered 8,000 (4 commanders leading 8,000), others only 4,000 (4 commanders leading 4,000). Military historian Khalid Mahmud supports the view that the force with Zubayr numbered 4,000 fighters, as it is similar to the number of soldiers in previous reinforcements at the battles of the Yarmuk, al-Qadisiyyah and later to the battle of Nahavand. The second reason was the abrupt request for aid from Egypt only allowed for a small number of soldiers. These reinforcements arrived at Babylon sometime in September 640. Imam Awza'i, a Tabi'un and founder of now extinct Awza'i school Madhhab, also recorded that he witnessed the Muslim conquest of Egypt and he confirmed that 'Ubadah was among those who were sent to aid Amr.

As they arrived in Egypt, Zubayr immediately helped the Rashidun army capture the city of Faiyum. After the fall of Faiyum, Zubayr march to Ain Shams to assist 'Amr in besieging the Byzantine fortress at Heliopolis, which had been besieged before by 'Amr unsuccessfully for months. At Heliopolis Zubayr helped repel a surprise Byzantine counterattack at night against the Rashidun forces. The Byzantines eventually surrendered and the prefect of the city Al-Muqawqis, agreed to pay 50,000 gold coins.

The Muslim army reached Heliopolis, 15 km (10 mi) from Babylon, in July 640. The city boasted the Sun Temple of the Pharaohs and grandiose monuments and learning institutions. Amr ibn al-Aas decided to take the Byzantine to battle on the open field near Heliopolis in early to mid July 640. There was the danger that forces from Heliopolis could attack the Muslims from the flank while they were engaged with the Roman army at Babylon. There was a cavalry clash near the current neighbourhood of Abbaseya. Then as Zubayr has come to Heliopolis along with Busr, Umayr, and Kharija, they wait in the camp until night as Amr still negotiating with the prefect of the city, Al-Muqawqis. However, during that night, the Byzantine Exarchate forces under commander named Arthabun (Aretion or Arteon in Latin), mounted surprise assault to the Rashidun camps. Nevertheless, Ibn Kathir has recorded in his book the night assault by the Exarchate forces were repelled by the Muslim (Zubayr) forces, while half of them were killed by the Muslims. Tomorrow at morning, Amr and Zubayr marched towards the Ain Shams city as they knew the Byzantine forces choose to fight. Then they besiege the city, until Zubayr managed to climb the wall and the Rashidun forces has managed to subdue the city by force. Muqawqis finally agreed to surrender his city and paying 50,000 gold coins. The surrendering treaty by Heliopolis were ratified by Amr which witnessed by Zubayr and two of his sons, Abdullah and Muhammad. The defeated Byzantine soldiers retreated to either the Babylon Fortress or the fortress of Nikiû. The 8,000 al-Aas soldiers were led by Zubayr, Ubadah, Maslama, Miqdad, Busr ibn Abi Artat and defeated the 20,000 strong Byzantine army under Theodore. Zubayr and some of his handpicked soldiers scaled the Heliopolis city wall at an unguarded point and, after overpowering the guards, opened the gates for the army to enter the city. After the capture of Heliopolis, 'Amr and Zubayr returned to Babylon.

Later, during the Siege of Babylon Fortress, both sides exchanged envoys in an effort to demoralize each other. In the days leading up to the end of the siege, Ubadah was sent to give a delegation to Muqawqis to negotiate for the last time. It is said that Muqawqis became afraid of Ubadah when he saw the Rashidun commander's majestic appearance, prompting Ubadah to taunt Muqawqis reaction in written chronicle: