[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Inter-American Dialogue

ns, and civil society, and develop lessons to share throughout Latin America to accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles. Analysis and reports on issues like deforestation in the Amazon rainforest, environmental regulation, and liquid natural gas in the Americas are also produced by the program.

Major initiatives
CAF Conference:
Established in 1996 as a joint initiative of CAF – Development Bank of Latin America and the Caribbean, the Inter-American Dialogue, and the Organization of American States, the CAF Conference brings together more than 1,000 world leaders to debate and discuss the most pressing developments facing the Americas. Since then, the conference has grown to become the primary forum for policy makers and analysts, journalists, governments and international organizations, entrepreneurs and investors, and civil society representatives to review progress in the Western Hemisphere and address pending challenges.

Awards Gala:
The Inter-American Dialogue's Leadership for the Americas Awards Gala celebrates individuals and organizations committed to advancing democratic governance, social equity and prosperity in the Western Hemisphere. The annual event brings together top world leaders whose exceptional contributions have been instrumental in addressing the pressing challenges of our hemisphere. More than 400 guests attend the gala, comprising an elite audience from the highest levels of government, business, media and civil society.
 
Sol M. Linowitz Forum
The Sol M. Linowitz Forum, established in 1996, is dedicated to improving the quality of debate and communication on Western Hemispheric issues. The forum pays tribute to Ambassador Linowitz, the Dialogue's founding chairman, and assembles Dialogue members once every two years to address the most important issues affecting the Americas. At the forum, Dialogue members meet in plenary sessions and in smaller workshops, probe their differences, identify cooperative solutions to regional problems, and develop consensus proposals for action. Drawing on these discussions, the Dialogue produces a policy report that reviews the main issues and offers recommendations for policy and action–for governments, international organizations, and private groups. The report is published and widely circulated throughout the hemisphere.

Publications 
The Dialogue publishes a daily news service, the Latin America Advisor, that reports on major events and trends in the region. Two additional newsletters, the Latin America Energy Advisor and the Latin America Financial Services Advisor, are published weekly and biweekly respectively.

Along with reports published by each of the programs throughout the year, the Dialogue published editions of the book Unfulfilled Promises: Latin America Today in 2019 in English, Spanish, and Portuguese.

Funding
The Dialogue's funding comes from a diverse group of corporations, governments, foundations and multilateral organizations. In 2018, grants and contributions represented 35% of the Dialogue's revenue, government grants accounted for 26% and the corporate program provided an additional 15% of the think-tank's funding.

Major donors span the globe, from foundations in El Salvador, Ford Foundation, Henry Luce Foundation, Vidanta Foundation and the Van Leer Foundation. Several governments, such as Switzerland, South Korea, and the United States, provide funding through their foreign affairs ministries. Major private sector donors from around the world, including the BMW Corporation, Pearson, and Ladrillera Santafé financially support the Dialogue, as do many individual donors from the United States and Latin America. The Dialogue's mission is also supported by multilateral organizations that work in the region, like the CAF-Development Bank of Latin America and the Caribbean, the Inter-American Development Bank, and the Organization of American States.

Members
The Dialogue has 124 members from Latin America, the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, and Spain. 20 of its members served as presidents of their countries, three dozen served at the cabinet level, 17 served in national legislatures, 25 are leaders in business or finance sectors, and seven are associated with the media.

Board of directors
Inter-American Dialogue is currently chaired by former President of Costa Rica Laura Chinchilla and former U.S. Department of State Thomas A. Shannon Jr. Its vice-chairs are Mack McLarty, former White House Chief of Staff, and L. Enrique Garcia, president of CAF – Development Bank of Latin America and the Caribbean.

Other members of the Board of Directors:
 Fernando Henrique Cardoso (Brazil)
 David de Ferranti (US)
 Carla Anderson Hills (US)
 Donna J. Hrinak (US)
 Enrique V. Iglesias (Uruguay)
 Earl Jarrett (Jamaica)
 Ricardo Lagos (Chile)
 Susana Malcorra (Argentina)
 Maria Fernanda Teixeira (Brazil) 
 Roberto Teixeira da Costa (Brazil)
 Arturo Sarukhán (Mexico)
 Maria Priscila Vansetti (Brazil)
 Ernesto Zedillo (Mexico)