[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Frederick Walker (native police commandant)

ourthouse.

Around this time, Walker was also commissioned by a Sydney pastoral company to locate a suitably large area of land to graze 100,000 head of sheep. Walker located this area on the Barcoo River and as a result of this expedition became one of the first British people to enter this region.

1861 Burke and Wills recovery expedition
In 1861 Walker led a party, ostensibly in search of the ill-fated Burke and Wills expedition, but his focus was more upon hunting for new pastoral runs.  His meticulous journal of the search is often transcribed from the abridged version published by the Royal Geographical Society, but the full version is found in the correspondence of the Gulf of Carpentaria exploration expedition of Commander Norman.  
On 25 August 1861, Walker set out from Rockhampton accompanied by ex-Native Police troopers Jingle, Rodney, Patrick, Coreen Jemmy and Jemmy Cargara.  These aboriginal men had served Walker for many years and were vital in ascertaining the terrain and communicating with the local indigenous people.  Walker acknowledged their importance by naming mountains and rivers after them.  However, this mutual respect was not extended to some aboriginal groups met with along the way.  On 30 October near the Stawell River, the party met with a group of locals who they deemed hostile.  Walker writes that 'It was now for us to be doing...Now was shown the benefit of Terry's breech loaders, for such a continued steady fire was kept up.'  Out of around 30 aboriginals armed with spears, 12 were killed and 'few if any escaped unwounded.'  On 1 December near the Leichardt River, Walker's party charged another group of aboriginals resulting in 'a heavy loss.'  Despite the obvious advantages in weaponry, Walker managed to find himself in a dangerous situation on 4 December.  Walker and Jingle, being separated from the others and with only limited ammunition and one horse, were being surrounded and had to flee in panic for eighteen miles before considering themselves safe. Three days later, the group, having reformed, achieved the rendezvous point with Captain Norman.  They had failed to locate Burke and Wills and their party.

1866 Electric Telegraph survey and death

In 1866, Walker was employed by the Superintendent of Electric Telegraph to survey a 500-mile route from Bowen to Burketown in a bid to compete against South Australia for the end of the Trans-Oceanic link from Europe. Although the South Australian project won the race and Darwin became the terminus, Walker did manage to lead an expedition to survey a route for the Burketown line. His expedition consisted of himself as leader, H.E.Young, Mr. Perrier, Mr. Ewan, Mr. Merryweather and four Aboriginals who went by the names of Paul, Alfred, Charley and Tommy. On making their way to the starting point of Bowen, Walker had a severe fall from a horse and was subsequently unwell for most of the remainder of his journey. He arrived in Burketown with his party at the height of the Gulf Fever – a typhoid which affected the Gulf after the arrival in Burketown of a vessel on which all the crew except the Captain died. To compound matters, Walker's camp just outside the settlement was described by H.E.Young as the "worst camp that I had ever seen", with no shade and poor water. Walker had chronic diarrhoea while he was at this camp. The party commenced their return journey but at Floraville, Walker became too weak to continue and after several days he died on 19 November 1866. The entry in H.E.Young's journal recorded Walker's passing: "as soon as the horses were brought up and a couple saddled, Perrier and Ewan were starting for the doctor of the Leichhardt search expedition which was camped about six miles off. But he died before they mounted. He died at noon and was buried on the evening of the same day."

The administration of Walker's will was completed in London on 13 April 1867. His entire effects of £1160 14s 11d were left to his sister Harriet Yorke.

Legacy
Walkers Creek, located near Marathon Station in far north Queensland is named after Frederick Walker.

Frederick Walker's grave is located  south of the township on Floraville Station, in far north Queensland. The inscription reads: