[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

orting both Celestial Being and the Innovators, effectively playing both sides until Ribbons has no more need of her. Forming an alliance with Regene, Liu Mei hands Setsuna the coordinates that reveal Veda's location, only to be later killed by Nena Trinity as she attempts to leave the battlefield. 

Hong Long (;  Hon Ron)
 Wang Liu Mei's steward and bodyguard, also of Chinese descent, who accompanies her faithfully. A highly skilled martial artist, he is also Liu Mei's older half-brother. Because he was incapable of leading their family, Liu Mei was forced to become the head of their family; as a result, she resents her brother for his behavior. As one of Celestial Being's agents, Long assisted Setsuna and Lockon during their mission in Azadistan. In the second season, Long questions Liu Mei about "playing both sides", since it could result in the destruction of the Gundams. He and Liu Mei manage to survive after Nena Trinity's attacks on their ship in the Throne Drei. However, as they make their way into a satellite, Nena ambushes them; Hong Long pushes his sister into a seal-docking port as he sacrifices himself to save her, killed with a shot to the head.

Union 
The , also referred to as the , is a supranational politico-economic community consisting of the Organization of American States, Australasia, and Japan. It controls the first-completed of the three orbital elevators, located in South America.

 
 Graham Aker is an ace pilot in the Union and considers himself the archrival of Setsuna F. Seiei, though Setsuna rarely reciprocates. Prior to the series, he joined the military to live his dream of flying, and follows a strict code of honor. However, a freak accident resulting in the death of a superior officer and his sudden promotion made Graham a victim of rumors. When Celestial Being makes its appearance in the world, Graham is promoted to Captain of the Over Flags. Though he originally had a fascination for the Gundams, the actions of Team Trinity causes Graham's feelings to exceed into utter hatred. In the final moments of Operation Fallen Angels, Graham uses the GN Flag to attack Setsuna, exchanging blows and clashing ideals with him before the battle ends with Graham receiving scars on the right side of his face. Four years later, Graham dons a mask to cover the scars and becomes a member of the newly formed A-Laws under the alias of . Possessing a one-man army pass, Graham was given special permission to do as he wishes during battles, only to use this to avoid most conflict and only fight when Setsuna appears. Graham is the Union's ace pilot and follows a strict code of honor. With a skill unmatched by any Flag pilot, Graham is eager to find an opponent worthy to fight. When Gundam Exia first appeared in the AEU exhibition and destroyed their new unit, the Enact, he grew completely interested in the Gundam's capabilities, as Billy Katagiri notes, he's "quite infatuated" with the Gundams.  After losing to Setsuna, who spared him, Graham takes Setsuna's words to live to heart while he is contemplating seppuku. In the end of the series, he is standing behind the doors watching his friend Billy working. In the Gundam 00 Movie, he sacrifices himself to help Setsuna to get into the ELS core claiming that that is not dying but opening the road to the future after he snaps (and shields from an attack) Setsuna back into reality as the Gundam Meister is confused about battling the ELS due to his Innovator instincts resonating with ELS conscience claiming that he (Setsuna) shouldn't hesitate instead he should battle for the future.  

 
 Billy Katagiri is a mobile suit developer and friend of Union ace Graham Aker. After the appearance of Celestial Being, Billy, Graham, and Professor Ralph Eifman, who had taught Billy in college, are transferred to the Anti-Gundam Investigative Task Force, later named "Overflags". Billy is a former classmate of Leesa Kujo (aka Sumeragi Lee Noriega) and inadvertently leaks information about "Project G" to her and Celestial Being. After the death of Professor Eifman and Howard Mason during an attack by Team Trinity, Billy uses one of the recently acquired GN Drives to upgrade Graham's Flag unit to the GN-Flag in order to fight the Gundams.