[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Naive John

ait Award winner
Sadie Lee. Salford Museum commissioned the artist in 2008 to produce public art to display on billboard spaces in Salford as part of Walkabout; a joint project with The Lowry. He exhibited in the Fellow Travellers show which took place in Korpfulstadir, Reykjavík, Iceland July 2008.

Triumph of Stuckism
At the invitation of Professor Colin Fallows, Chair of Research at Liverpool School of Art and Design, Naive John led The Triumph of Stuckism, an international symposium on Stuckism announced for October 2006 at the Liverpool John Moores University during the Liverpool Biennial, along with an accompanying exhibition in the 68 Hope Gallery at Liverpool School of Art and Design (John Moores University Gallery). The title of the symposium is a reference to the Triumph of Painting shows staged in 2005 by Charles Saatchi, and according to The Independent newspaper, "Charles Saatchi is about to become the latest victim of a critical mauling from the people of Liverpool", whose "finest academics are meeting to slag off the secretive collector." It marks a new step for the artists: "The Stuckists have gained some academic credibility after being dismissed as a media freak-show."

Naive John chaired the symposium, which was announced as a day of illustrated lectures, presented by leading Stuckist artists and independent art historians. Booked speakers included: Guy Denning, Paul Harvey, Jacqueline Jones, Bill Lewis, Charles Thomson and Odysseus Yakoumakis. John also curated the exhibition of Stuckist paintings. The event was part of the programme of the 2006 Liverpool Biennial, and followed the Stuckist show at the 2004 Liverpool Biennial. Artists exhibiting in the 2006 show included Philip Absolon, Godfrey Blow, John Bourne, Jaime Braz, Guy Denning, John Geggie, Ella Guru, Paul Harvey, Naive John, Jacqueline Jones, Peter Klint, Bill Lewis, Mike Mayhew, Jesse Richards, Kim Richardson, Mary Von Stockhausen, Charles Thomson and Odysseus Yakoumakis.

See also
The Stuckists Punk Victorian
Stuckist demonstrations
Lowbrow art
Pop Surrealism

References
Milner, Frank ed. (2004), "The Stuckists Punk Victorian" National Museums Liverpool,

Footnotes

External links
Naive John official site
Fellow Travellers official site
Interview on MyArtSpace
Naive John on the Walker Art Gallery site
Naive John on Hunterian Museum's site
Naive John on Art in Liverpool

1962 births
20th-century British painters
British male painters
21st-century British painters
Stuckism
Alumni of Liverpool John Moores University
Living people
English contemporary artists
People with mood disorders
20th-century British male artists
21st-century British male artists
English people with disabilities
British artists with disabilities