[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Crazy Bear (Assiniboine chief)

ountain men in the 19th century.  Agents of Hudson's Bay Company, the North West Company, and the American Fur Company (AFC), built forts and competing trading posts along the rivers.  At these facilities, the Native Americans traded furs and buffalo robes for weapons, fabric, trinkets, and whiskey.

It was at one of these facilities, Ft. Union, Dakota Territory, that Crazy Bear honed his negotiation skills.  He was known as an honest, loyal and reliable trading partner.  The agents of the American Fur Company, which ran Ft. Union, made numerous journal entries regarding Crazy Bear and his abilities.  Charles Larpenteur, an agent for the AFC, wrote in his journal in 1842 about another, competing. fur company's attempt to bribe Crazy Bear into switching affiliations.  He wrote, "Mr. Cotton [an agent from Fort William] invited him into his room and made him a great speech, dressed him up in a splendid military suit, such as had never been brought into the country before, and then laid a two gallon keg of whiskey at his feet. Crazy Bear's band was at Union, waiting for his return; but, instead of going directly to them, he went into Mr. Culberson (the AFC agent)'s private room, not very drunk, took a seat, and remained some time without saying a word. Mr. Culbertson, surprised to see him so dressed, and thinking that he had lost his chief, was also silent. Finally, Crazy Bear broke the ice by saying, 'I suppose you think that I have left our big house. No, I am not a child. I went below to see the chief who treated me well. I did not ask him for anything. I did not refuse his presents. But these cannot make me abandon this house, where are buried the remains of our fathers, whose tracks are yet fresh in all the paths leading to this place. No I will not abandon this house!'  After which he rose from his seat, and took off his fine fur hat and feathers, which he threw on the floor with all his might; then unbuckled his beautiful sword with which he did the same, and kept on till he had stripped himself of all his fine clothes, without speaking a word. When this performance was over, he said to Mr. Culbertson, who stood in great astonishment, 'Take away all these things and give me such as you see fit, and don't think I am a child who can be seduced with trinkets.'  This Crazy Bear, who was not at all crazy, proved afterward to be the greatest Chief of the Assiniboine."

Fort Laramie Treaty
By 1851, the traffic of white settlers traveling west through the northern plains had increased steadily resulting in the escalation of violent confrontation with the native peoples.  In addition, the continued inter-tribal warfare affected the profits of the competing fur companies.  The United States government devised a plan to bring a cessation of hostilities to the area.  They prepared a document known as the "Fort Laramie Treaty" (1851), and distributed a circular summoning the leaders of all regional tribes to Fort Laramie, Wyoming to a treaty council and signing ceremony.  The tribes invited were the Sioux, Cheyenne, Arapaho, Crow, Assiniboine, Mandan, Gros Ventre, Arikaree, Shoshone, and others. Many of these nations were natural enemies; who had been fighting inter-tribal battles for centuries. Fort Laramie was in Sioux territory. The reluctance of many participants to travel to this remote location was evident.

"When the circular issued by Col. Mitchell, then Supt. of Indian Affairs, was explained to the Assiniboines by Culbertson, not a single Indian except the Foolish Bear (Crazy Bear) would consent to go. They did not wish to risk themselves among the large body of Sioux on whose ground the treaty was to be held. Besides the road to Laramie being up on the Yellowstone in the summer, when that river is literally stocked with Blackfoot war parties, their deadly enemies, did not bode well for their safe arrival. The trip was one of extreme danger to all concerned, and nothing but the good council and great exertions of the above named gentleman induced the Indians to undertake it. After the Crazy Bear had determined to go, several others joined the expedition." Among those who traveled with him were Chief First to Fly, and Father De Smet, S.J.

Soldiers and civilians at Fort Laramie probably numbered under one hundred at the time of the treaty council.  The officials who had expected only the leadership of the various tribes to arrive were astounded as the total number of attendees reached an estimated twelve thousand.  The fort personnel and the civilian officials felt extremely frightened and feared that without warning they could be killed.  They moved the treaty signing thirty five miles southeast to Henry, in today's Nebraska.

The U.S. government determined that in order to effectively negotiate they needed individual "Chiefs" to sign and represent their tribes.  Crazy Bear was so designated for the Assiniboine.