[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battlespace

oint on maneuver control graphics: staffs must be knowledgeable regarding the different maneuver control measures and their impact on clearance of fires. For instance, boundaries are both restrictive and permissive; corridors are restrictive, while routes, axis, and directions of attack are neither.

It should be reminded of the effect on clearance of fires if subordinate maneuver units are not given zones or sectors (i.e. no boundaries established).  Since boundaries serve as both permissive and restrictive measures, the decision not to employ them has profound effects upon timely clearance of fires at the lowest possible level.

The higher echelon may coordinate all clearance of fires short of the Coordinated Fire Line (CFL), a very time-intensive process.  It allows the unit to maneuver successfully and to swiftly and efficiently engage targets.  It requires coordination and clearance only within that organization.

They affect fire support in two ways:

 Restrictive—Restrictive control that is established in conjunction with a host nation to preclude damage or destruction to a national asset, population center, or religious structure.  Its key role is the protection of an element of tactical importance, such as a fuel storage area.
Restrictive fire area (RFA) is an area with specific restrictions and in which fires that exceed those restrictions will not be delivered without coordination with the establishing headquarters, or higher echelon; occasionally, it may be established to operate independently.
No-fire area (NFA) is a designated area which  no fire support may be delivered for fires or effects.  When the establishing headquarters allows fires on a mission-by-mission basis.  When a friendly force is engaged by an enemy located within the NFA and the commander returns fire to defend their forces, the amount of return fire should not exceed that sufficient to protect the force and continue the mission.
 Permissive—Permissive control that gives the maneuver commander the liberty to announce and engage fire support at their will, unless it otherwise is restricted by a higher echelon. In most cases, a commander will deny the use of Fire Support Coordinating Measures (FSCM).
There are free-fire areas (FFA) which fire support can commence without additional coordination with the establishing headquarters. Normally, it is established on identifiable terrain by division or higher headquarters.

Battle-space shaping

Battle-space shaping is a concept involved in the practice of maneuver warfare that are used for shaping a situation on the battlefield, gaining the military advantage for the commander.  It forecasts the elimination of the enemy's capability by fighting in a coherent manner before deploying determine-sized forces.

See also

 List of command and control abbreviations
 Command and control
 Fog of war
 Network-centric warfare
 Psychological warfare

References

Further reading
 Blackmore, T. (2005). War X: Human Extensions in Battle-space. University of Toronto Press. 
 Galeotti, M. (2022). The Weaponisation of Everything: A Field Guide to the New Way of War. Yale University Press. 
 Matisek, J. and Jayamaha, B. (2022). Old and New Battlespaces: Society, Military Power, and War. Lynne Rienner. 
 Mitchell, W. (2013). Battle-space Agility 101. Royal Danish Defense College Publishing House. 
 Mitchell, W. (2013). Battle-space Agility 201.Royal Danish Defense College Publishing House. 
 Mitchell, W. (2012). Battle-space Intelligence. Royal Danish Defense College Publishing House. 
 Mitchell, W. (2012). Battle-space Agility in Helmand. Royal Danish Defense College Publishing House. 
 Mitchell, W. (2008). Comprehensive Approach Capacity Building.Royal Danish Defense College Publishing House. 
 Owens, W. (2002). Dominant Battle-space Knowledge. University Press of the Pacific.

External links

 Marine Corps Doctrinal Publication (MCDP) 1-0: Marine Corps Operations'
 Achieving Dominant Battlespace Awareness
 Joint Synthetic Battlespace: Cornerstone for Predictive Battlespace Awareness
 Battlespace Digitization - Coping With Uncertainty In The Command Process
 Challenges for Joint Battlespace Digitization (JBD)

Command and control
Military strategy
Military terminology