[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eggert Jónsson

ide, returning to Iceland to recover from injury.

Fleetwood Town
In 2015, Fleetwood Town signed Jónsson on a one-year contract following expiration of his deal with FC Vestsjælland. After making 63 appearances in all competitions for Fleetwood, in January 2017 he signed for Danish side SønderjyskE.

SønderjyskE
After joining SønderjyskE in 2017, Jónsson played 43 times for the club. During the 2020 COVID-19 hiatus, his contract was extended until July 2020. Jónsson scored in the Super League game that relegated Silkeborg.

Fimleikafélag Hafnarfjarðar
In August 2020, Jonsson signed for Icelandic club Fimleikafélag Hafnarfjarðar.

International career
Jónsson received his first call-up to the Iceland national team in November 2007 for the Euro 2008 qualifier against Denmark on 21 November. He made his debut as a 73-minute replacement for Emil Hallfreðsson in the 3–0 Group F defeat at the Parken Stadium.

He was part of the Iceland under-21 team at the 2011 UEFA European Under-21 Football Championship, a squad which was considered to be the golden generation of Icelandic football. Iceland were eliminated from Group A by a three-way tie-breaker as they finished with an identical record to both Belarus and Denmark, allowing Belarus to advance along with group winners Switzerland.

Career statistics

Updated 19 December 2014.

Honours
SønderjyskE
Danish Cup: 2019–20

References

External links
 
 Appearances at londonhearts.com
 
 

1988 births
Living people
Eggert Jonsson
Eggert Jonsson
Eggert Jonsson
Eggert Jonsson
Eggert Jonsson
Eggert Jonsson
Men's association football utility players
Expatriate men's footballers in Scotland
Expatriate men's footballers in Portugal
Eggert Jonsson
Heart of Midlothian F.C. players
Scottish Premier League players
Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C. players
Charlton Athletic F.C. players
Fleetwood Town F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
C.F. Os Belenenses players
Primeira Liga players
Men's association football defenders
Men's association football midfielders