[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Low-temperature thermal desorption

For environmental remediation, Low-temperature thermal desorption (LTTD), also known as low-temperature thermal volatilization, thermal stripping, and soil roasting, is an ex-situ remedial technology that uses heat to physically separate petroleum hydrocarbons from excavated soils. Thermal desorbers are designed to heat soils to temperatures sufficient to cause constituents to volatilize and desorb (physically separate) from the soil. Although they are not designed to decompose organic constituents, thermal desorbers can, depending upon the specific organics present and the temperature of the desorber system, cause some organic constituents to completely or partially decompose. The vaporized hydrocarbons are generally treated in a secondary treatment unit (e.g., an afterburner, catalytic oxidation chamber, condenser, or carbon adsorption unit) prior to discharge to the atmosphere. Afterburners and oxidizers destroy the organic constituents. Condensers and carbon adsorption units trap organic compounds for subsequent treatment or disposal.

Some preprocessing and postprocessing of soil is necessary when using LTTD. Excavated soils are first screened to remove large (greater than 2 inches in diameter) objects. These may be sized (e.g., crushed or shredded) and then introduced back into the feed material. After leaving the desorber, soils are cooled, re-moistened to control dust, and stabilized (if necessary) to prepare them for disposal or reuse. Treated soil may be redeposited onsite, used as cover in landfills, or incorporated into asphalt.

Application
LTTD has proven very effective in reducing concentrations of petroleum products including gasoline, jet fuels, kerosene, diesel fuel, heating oils, and lubricating oils. LTTD is applicable to constituents that are volatile at temperatures up to 1,200 °F. Most desorbers operate at temperatures between 300 °F to 1,000 °F. Desorbers constructed of special alloys can operate at temperatures up to 1,200 °F. More volatile products (e.g. gasoline) can be desorbed at the lower operating range, while semivolatile products (e.g. kerosene, diesel fuel) generally need temperatures over 700 °F, and relatively nonvolatile products (e.g., heating oil, lubricating oils) need even higher temperatures. Essentially all soil types are amenable for treatment by LTTD systems. However, different soils may require varying degrees and types of pretreatment. For example, coarse-grained soils (e.g. gravel and cobbles) may require crushing; fine-grained soils that are excessively cohesive (e.g. clay) may require shredding.

State and local regulations specify that petroleum-contaminated soils must be pilot tested, by some soil from the site being processed through the LTTD system (a "test burn"). The results of preliminary testing of soil samples should identify the relevant constituent properties, and examination of the machine's performance records should indicate how effective the system will be in treating the soil. The proven effectiveness of a particular system for a specific site or waste does not ensure that it will be effective at all sites or that the treatment efficiencies achieved will be acceptable at other sites. If a test burn is conducted, it is important to ensure that the soil tested is representative of average conditions and that enough samples are analyzed before and after treatment to confidently determine whether LTTD will be effective.

Operation of LTTD units requires various permits and demonstration of compliance with permit requirements. Monitoring requirements for LTTD systems are by their nature different from monitoring required at a UST site. Monitoring of LTTD system waste streams (e.g. concentrations of particulates, volatiles, and carbon monoxide in stack gas) are required by the agency or agencies issuing the permits for operation of the facility. The LTTD facility owner/operator is responsible for complying with limits specified by the permits and for other LTTD system operating parameters (e.g. desorber temperature, soil feed rate, afterburner temperature).

The decision as to whether or not LTTD is a practical remedial alternative depends upon site-specific characteristics (e.g. the location and volume of contaminated soils, site layout). Practicability is also determined by regulatory, logistical, and economic considerations. The economics of LTTD as a remedial option are highly site-specific. Economic factors include:-
 Site usage (because excavation and onsite soil treatment at a retail site (e.g. gasoline station, convenience store) will most likely prevent the business from operating for a longish time).
 The cost of LTTD per unit volume of soil relative to other remedial options.
 The location of the nearest applicable LTTD system (because transportation costs are a function of distance).