[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ezriel Carlebach

e League of Nations in Geneva on September 29, 1933. His speech An Appeal to the Nations was an éclat and the subsequent press conference accordingly well attended. Nevertheless, on the sidelines Carlebach and Goebbels had a sharp argument on co-operatives exemplified by the newspaper company Haynt.

Carlebach reported how the Upper Silesian Franz Bernheim succeeded to prompt the League of Nations (Bernheim petition ) to coerce Germany to abide by the German-Polish Accord on East Silesia. According to that treaty each contractual party guaranteed in its respective part of Upper Silesia equal civil rights for all the inhabitants. So in September 1933 the Reich's Nazi government suspended in Upper Silesia all anti-Semitic discriminations already imposed and excepted the province from all new such invidiousnesses to be decreed, until the Accord expired in May 1937.

In 1935 Carlebach was appointed chief editor of  daily Yidishe Post (יידישע פאָסט) in London. But he continued to cover travelling the rest of Europe, except of Germany. In Selbstwehr (Prague) Carlebach published a regular column Tagebuch der Woche (diary of the week). In April 1935 Carlebach called attention to Kurt Schuschnigg's anti-Semitic policy in Austria in an interview with the Federal Chancellor. He  adopted an increasingly sharper tone in relation to non-Zionists, whose intentions to stay in Europe, he regarded negligent in view of the development. From 1936 on British policy on Palestine (Peel Commission) stood at the centre of Carlebach's editing.

In 1937 Carlebach immigrated to Palestine under an appointment as foreign correspondent of Yidishe Post. In the same year he became a journalist at the newspaper , afterwards becoming its editor. In early 1939 Carlebach travelled again to Warsaw, meeting with friends there – not knowingly to see many of them for the last time.

In 1948, while chief editor of , a disagreement broke out between Carlebach and Yehuda Mozes, owner of the paper.  Carlebach and several senior journalists left Yedioth Ahronoth and founded a new newspaper, Yedioth Ma'ariv, which first appeared on February 15, 1948, with Carlebach as its chief editor.  After several months, the paper's name was changed to Ma'ariv, to avoid confusion between it and .

Ezriel Carlebach edited the Ma'ariv newspaper from its founding until his death in 1956.  While he was editor, Ma'ariv became the most widely read newspaper in the country.  He is regarded as one of the great journalists of his period.

Views and opinions
Carlebach and his paper opposed the Zionist Socialist party government and its head, David Ben-Gurion.  He was also a leader in the opposition to the opening of direct negotiations between Israel and Germany after the war, and the Reparations Agreement between Israel and West Germany.

In 1952 after president Chaim Weizmann’s death Carlebach suggested Albert Einstein in a telegram to become Israel's president. Einstein felt honoured but refused, as he told Carlebach in a letter dated November 21, 1952, written in German.

Carlebach deprecated musical censorship as it was demanded by the Israeli government on the occasion of Jascha Heifetz' tour in Israel: "The education minister, Professor Dinur, requested that no Strauss be played. And the justice minister, Dr. Rosen, seconded that request (despite his different personal views on the identification of an artist with his art). … And he sent that request by special messenger … to Jascha Heifetz in Haifa a short time before the concert. 
Yet Jascha Heifetz received the request from two ministers of Israel, shoved it into his pocket, said whatever he said about opposing musical censorship – and refused to comply. He played Strauss in Haifa, and afterwards in Tel Aviv as well."

Carlebach was sympathetic towards conciliation between Jewish and Arab Israelis. Under his pseudonym Rav Ipkha Mistabra he published a series of essays and editorials, in , Ma'ariv or in Ner, the journal of the Brit Shalom movement (Engl. lit. Covenant of Peace). By and large, however, Carlebach remained skeptic in how far an understanding with avowed representatives of Islam were possible.

Carlebach criticised, that after the verdict of Rudolf Kastner the Israeli government appealed the conviction literally overnight, unable to properly examine at all the substantial grounds for the judgment.

In 1954, Carlebach spent a three-week trip in India. "During this visit he met with Nehru and other leaders of the state and the Congress Party." His book about the trip, India: Account of a Voyage, long the only Hebrew book on India, was published in 1956 and became an instant best-seller, appearing in several editions in the years after its initial appearance.