[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Richie Farmer

nemployed Farmer to seek employment, surrender his passport, and remain within the state until the trial. In response to Farmer's lawyer's request to delay the trial until February 2014 – a request the prosecution called "excessive" – Judge Gregory Van Tatenhove rescheduled the trial for October 22.

Plea bargain and sentencing
On September 5, 2013, Farmer's attorney filed a motion to allow Farmer to change his plea to guilty and announced that Farmer had reached a plea bargain to settle all federal and state charges against him. Farmer would have faced maximum penalties of $250,000 and 10 years in prison for each federal charge against him. Instead, in exchange for his guilty plea, prosecutors agreed to pursue a sentence of 21 to 27 months in federal prison and $120,500 in restitution of the $450,000 Farmer was accused of misappropriating. Additionally, Farmer pleaded guilty to one state charge of violating campaign finance laws in exchange for a sentence of no more than one year, served concurrently with his federal sentence. Finally, Farmer acknowledged to the Executive Branch Ethics Commission 35 of the 42 violations he had been charged with, resulting in $65,000 in fines, the most ever levied by the commission. Farmer's attorney indicated that U.S. Attorney Kerry Harvey and Kentucky Attorney General Jack Conway had been pursuing additional indictments against Farmer when the plea bargain was reached. Although still restricted from leaving the state, Farmer was allowed to remain free pending sentencing.

Van Tatenhove sentenced Farmer to 27 months in federal prison on January 14, 2014. He recommended that the sentence be served at the Federal Correctional Institution in Manchester, Farmer's hometown, but the Federal Bureau of Prisons opted to assign him to the United States Penitentiary, Hazelton near Bruceton Mills, West Virginia. The Lexington Herald-Leader'' noted that Farmer's inmate number, 16226-032, was reminiscent of his college jersey number, 32.

Originally scheduled to report to prison on March 18, Farmer was granted a one-week delay by Van Tatenhove to watch his son, Trey, play for Clay County High School in the KHSAA basketball tournament. Clay County lost that game to Covington Catholic High School 80–78 in the first round of the tournament. Van Tatenhove insisted that he granted the delay in deference to the Farmer family, not as a special favor for Farmer himself. On March 25, 2014, Farmer reported to the satellite camp of the Hazelton prison to begin serving his sentence. He was imprisoned for almost 20 months, transitioned to a halfway house in Lexington on December 18, 2015, and was released on January 21, 2016.

In May 2016, Farmer filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. His petition stated that he was unemployed and owed $385,745 in debts – including $120,000 in restitution to the state and $15,000 in child support that are ineligible for bankruptcy forgiveness – against $24,259 in assets. He was reportedly renting a home in Clay County from his parents and driving a car they owned. On March 22, 2018, Farmer was arrested in Laurel County, Kentucky, for driving under the influence.

References

Further reading

 
 
 

|-

|-

1969 births
Agriculture in Kentucky
American people convicted of misusing public funds
Basketball players from Kentucky
Kentucky Commissioners of Agriculture
Kentucky Republicans
Kentucky Wildcats men's basketball players
Living people
People from Corbin, Kentucky
Politicians from Frankfort, Kentucky
People from Manchester, Kentucky
Prisoners and detainees of the United States federal government
Shooting guards
University of Kentucky College of Agriculture, Food, and Environment alumni
Kentucky politicians convicted of crimes
American people convicted of campaign finance violations
American men's basketball players