[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Semidefinite programming

Semidefinite programming (SDP) is a subfield of convex optimization concerned with the optimization of a linear objective function (a user-specified function that the user wants to minimize or maximize)
over the intersection of the cone of positive semidefinite matrices with an affine space, i.e., a spectrahedron.

Semidefinite programming is a relatively new field of optimization which is of growing interest for several reasons. Many practical problems in operations research and combinatorial optimization can be modeled or approximated as semidefinite programming problems. In automatic control theory, SDPs are used in the context of linear matrix inequalities.  SDPs are in fact a special case of cone programming and can be efficiently solved by interior point methods.
All linear programs and (convex) quadratic programs can be expressed as SDPs, and  via hierarchies of SDPs the solutions of polynomial optimization problems can be approximated.  Semidefinite programming has been used in the optimization of complex systems. In recent years, some quantum query complexity problems have been formulated in terms of semidefinite programs.

Motivation and definition

Initial motivation 

A linear programming problem is one in which we wish to maximize or minimize a linear objective function of real variables over a polytope. In semidefinite programming, we instead use real-valued vectors and are allowed to take the dot product of vectors; nonnegativity constraints on real variables in LP (linear programming) are replaced by semidefiniteness constraints on matrix variables in SDP (semidefinite programming). Specifically, a general semidefinite programming problem can be defined as any mathematical programming problem of the form

where the , and the  are real numbers and  is the dot product of  and  .

Equivalent formulations 

An  matrix  is said to be positive semidefinite if it is the Gram matrix of some vectors (i.e. if there exist vectors  such that  for all ). If this is the case, we denote this as . Note that there are several other equivalent definitions of being positive semidefinite, for example, positive semidefinite matrices are self-adjoint matrices that have only non-negative eigenvalues.

Denote by  the space of all  real symmetric matrices.  The space is equipped with the inner product (where  denotes the trace)

We can rewrite the mathematical program given in the previous section equivalently as

where entry  in  is given by  from the previous section and  is a symmetric  matrix having th entry  from the previous section. Thus, the matrices   and  are symmetric and the above inner products are well-defined.

Note that if we add slack variables appropriately, this SDP can be converted to one of the form

For convenience, an SDP may be specified in a slightly different, but equivalent form.  For example, linear expressions involving nonnegative scalar variables may be added to the program specification.  This remains an SDP because each variable can be incorporated into the matrix  as a diagonal entry ( for some ).  To ensure that , constraints  can be added for all .  As another example, note that for any positive semidefinite matrix , there exists a set of vectors  such that the ,  entry of  is  the scalar product of  and .  Therefore, SDPs are often formulated in terms of linear expressions on scalar products of vectors.  Given the solution to the SDP in the standard form, the vectors  can be recovered in  time (e.g., by using an incomplete Cholesky decomposition of X).

Duality theory

Definitions 

Analogously to linear programming, given a general SDP of the form

(the primal problem or P-SDP), we define the dual semidefinite program (D-SDP) as

where for any two matrices  and ,  means .

Weak duality 

The weak duality theorem states that the value of the primal SDP is at least the value of the dual SDP.  Therefore, any feasible solution to the dual SDP lower-bounds the primal SDP value, and conversely, any feasible solution to the primal SDP upper-bounds the dual SDP value.  This is because

where the last inequality is because both matrices are positive semidefinite, and the result of this function is sometimes referred to as duality gap.

Strong duality 
When the value of the primal and dual SDPs are equal, the SDP is said to satisfy the strong duality property. Unlike linear programs, where every dual linear program has optimal objective equal to the primal objective, not every SDP satisfies strong duality; in general, the value of the dual SDP may lie strictly below the value of the primal, and the P-SDP and D-SDP satisfy the following properties:

(i) Suppose the primal problem (P-SDP) is bounded below and strictly
feasible (i.e., there exists
 such that , ).
Then there is an optimal solution  to (D-SDP) and

(ii) Suppose the dual problem (D-SDP) is bounded above and strictly
feasible (i.e.,
 for some ).
Then there is an optimal solution  to (P-SDP) and
the equality from (i) holds.