[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Conservation and restoration of new media art

s, recasting a piece in a more modern, durable medium, and more. This technique does not maintain authenticity the way the other strategies do, but it can be the most effective. Therefore, it is considered best practice to only use reinterpretation when all other strategies are deemed inappropriate.

Preservation tools
Because the conservation and restoration of new media art is a craft, not a science, not every preservation strategy will work for every piece of new media art. Repositories have to make decisions based on the complexities of each individual piece. They will each have their own unique needs, interests, and priorities. Repositories and individual conservators keep up with new tools and technologies available to aid in preservation.

Archivematica 
Archivematica is an "integrated suite of open source software tools". It allows repositories to store their documents there for the long-term while also keeping up to date with current industry standards such as Dublin Core, AIPs, etc. Repositories started using Archivematica to address the gap between storage and actual preservation. It helps them along with every step in archival processing.

Bit Curator 
Bit Curator can be used as a way to examine a collection without going through each individual piece of art. Conservators can upload bulk files and Bit Curator will examine the trends and patterns. From there, repositories can decide what to focus on and which pieces need attention.

Conifer 
Conifer creates an archive of any page you visit while you browse. It is useful for conservators because they do not have to collect the webpage materials themselves. Everything you see is archived. Unlike other web archives like Wayback Machine, Conifer captures images, video, etc. of pages that can only be seen by you. They capture material that is password protected. From there, conservators can go through the collection themselves to sort, arrange, describe, add metadata, etc.

Media Info 
Media Info is primarily used for audio and visual files. They only take certain formats so more unconventional formats must be converted. This software verifies technical metadata and makes sure everything is working properly and up to date.

PRONOM 
PRONOM is a resource for information on "file formats, software products, and other technical components". It helps to ensure the conservation and long-term access to a variety of documents. This information is marketed toward anyone interested in learning more. It is not exclusive to archivists and conservators.

QC Tools 
QC Tools filters video files to help repositories analyze the contents of the video.

Variable Media Questionnaire
The Variable Media Questionnaire is a free web service that allows new media curators and repositories to share the most effective strategies of preservation for different forms of new media art. It focuses particularly on creating guidelines for preserving the art once the original medium or software is not available. They utilize the four main preservation strategies while recommending the specific mediums and software and work for different types of art.

Involving artists in preservation 
The future of new media conservation and restoration involves more collaboration between artists and curators. When preservation efforts are taken earlier in the creation of the work, future preservation becomes easier and more effective. The artist does not necessarily know the steps that must be taken to accurately preserve new media art and the curator does not necessarily know the artistic intentions of the creator. When these two work together throughout the creation and transfer to a repository, the conservation of the piece will last longer and the intentions of the artist will be honored. Without these efforts, many new media art pieces will not be properly preserved and will never be moved to a repository. The earlier the intervention, the easier it is going to be for the curator to ensure long-term preservation. Steps can be taken to make sure the new media art is around for future use. Those steps can involve the preservation strategies and tools described above, but the piece can only be preserved if it exists in a state where curators can access and modify it. For example, if it exists on a software that is already obsolete, it cannot be migrated.

Metadata standards