[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center

to a large influx in residents with chronic medical disorders. A year later Charles C. Manning replaced Wade and increased the farm's population by 280% to 479 residents. Manning constructed multiple new wards to accommodate the increased population and was briefly replaced in 1915 by Carl P. Talle.

1915-1952 
In 1915 superintendent William Ruddy Harriman was appointed and remained superintendent until 1952. Under Harriman much of the farm was rebuilt following a flood in 1914 which brought with it significant improvements including new buildings and an irrigation system. A multitude of new wards were also constructed to accommodate the rising number of mentally ill patients. By 1922 the facility had fully transitioned from a poor farm to a medical facility although farming operations would continue on the grounds for a number of years after. In 1926 the facility's occupational therapy program, which focused on rehabilitation through actions, was established and through it patients learned various crafts and made much the hospital's of the furniture, food, and other necessities. In 1928 the auditorium was created  in the place of the refectory. By the end of the 1920s the facility had grown to 540 acres. Following the stock market crash in 1929 the hospital received a cut in funding and an increase in residents. Despite the setbacks of the Great Depression the facility continued to expand and be upgraded including the 1933 addition of the first modern medical building, the Harriman building. During this time the facility officially had its name changed from "The County Poor Farm" to "Rancho Los Amigos", which it is still known as today, to better reflect its position as a medical facility. In 1933 the Long Beach earthquake brought with it more rebuilding and more improvements. In 1935 The National Social Security Act enabled many older residents to leave Rancho Los Amigos which  made room for many mentally ill children to be admitted in. Due to many residents being unable to work this brought upon the end of Rancho Los Amigo's farming operations. after World War 2 the facility's population doubled partially due to the 1944 polio outbreak. Rancho Los Amigos became known for its polio care and in 1950 general ward 50 was remodeled to treat polio patients specifically.  In 1952 superintendent Harriman retired and was replaced by Robert Thomas.

1952-present 
In 1952 Thomas had the respiratory center constructed on the northern campus and had the staff reorganized into the professional service department, nursing department, and dietary department. During this time home care, orthopedic, rehabilitation, and social services departments were also added. After Thomas's departure in 1956 Ranch Los Amigos continued to grow in the northern campus throughout the 20th century leaving the southern campus vacated.

Today
Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center is one of the largest comprehensive medical rehabilitation centers in the U.S. providing services to a wide range of individuals with catastrophic illnesses and injuries.

Rancho specializes in helping patients with disabilities regain skills and learn techniques to accomplish the basic activities of daily living, and returning to work or school if possible.

For more than two decades, Rancho has been ranked among "America's Best Hospitals" in Rehabilitation Medicine by U.S. News & World Report. In 2011, U.S. News ranked the Downey, California-based hospital 7th among the 138 hospitals rated in the Greater Los Angeles area.

Rancho is licensed for 207 beds.  It cares for approximately 4,000 inpatients and conducts 78,000 outpatient visits annually. The hospital provides rehabilitation services in stroke, spinal cord injury, brain injury, pediatrics, orthopedics and diabetes care, pressure ulcer management, limb preservation and post- amputation care. These services help patients to obtain as much independence as they are able, so they may return to their family, school or a job if feasible.

As the rehabilitation arm of the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services healthcare system, Rancho is becoming an enhanced medical home for stroke and spinal cord injury, providing lifetime care for seniors and persons with disabilities.  Rancho continues to pioneer creative programs that promote recovery, community reintegration and independence for persons recovering from or living with physical disability, including such programs as:
 Day Rehabilitation Program
 Rancho Wellness Center
 KnowBarriers Patient Achievement Program
 Acute Stroke Services
 Advanced Robotics Center
 Virtual Reality Center
 Rehab Engineering
 Pathokinesiology Laboratory
 Adult Day Services and Alzheimer's Day Care Resource Center
 Center for Applied Rehabilitation Technology
 Spinal Cord Injury Project
 Aging with a Disability
 Dentistry for People with Disabilities
 Advanced Diagnostic/Monitoring Laboratory
 Telemedicine