[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Moses in rabbinic literature

and no son to bury me"—for Moses' sons died before him. When Moses witnessed the quiet and peaceful death of Aaron he desired a similar death for himself. After Aaron's death Moses was accused by the people of having killed him through jealousy; but God cleared him from this suspicion by a miracle.

When Moses was about to take vengeance on Midian before his death, he did not himself take part in the War against the Midianites, because he had at one time sojourned in Midian and had received benefits in that country. When Zimri brought the Midianitish woman Cozbi before Moses, asking that he might marry her, and Moses refused his request, Zimri reproached him with having himself married the Midianitish woman Zipporah. Later, also, Moses was reproached for this marriage, the Rabbis saying that on account of it he became the ancestor of Jonathan, the priest of Micah's idol. God revealed to Moses before his death all the coming generations, their leaders and sages, as well as the saints and sinners. When Moses beheld Saul and his sons die by the sword he grieved that the first king of Israel should come to such a sad end. When God showed him hell he began to be afraid of it; but God promised him that he should not go thither. He beheld paradise also. A detailed description of Moses' wanderings through paradise and hell is found in the apocalypse "Gedullat Mosheh".

Death of Moses
The different legends agree that Moses died on Adar 7 (also his birthday) at the age of 120 years, the angel of death not being present. But the earlier and the later legends differ considerably in the description and the details of this event. The earlier ones present the hero's death as a worthy close to his life. It takes place in a miraculous way; and the hero meets it quietly and resignedly. He ascends Mount Abarim accompanied by the elders of the people, and Joshua and Eleazar; and while he is talking with them a cloud suddenly surrounds him and he disappears. He was prompted by modesty to say in the Torah that he died a natural death, in order that people should not say that God had taken him alive into heaven on account of his piety. The event is described somewhat differently, but equally simply, in Sifre.

For the statement that Moses did not die at all, compare Sotah 13b. "When the angel of death, being sent by God to Moses, appeared before him and said, 'Give me your soul,' Moses scolded him, saying, 'You have not even the right to appear where I am sitting; how dare you say to me that I shall give you my soul?' The angel of death took this answer back to God. And when God said to the angel the second time, 'Bring Me the soul of Moses,' he went to the place where Moses had been, but the latter had left. Then he went to the sea to look for Moses there. The sea said that it had not seen Moses since the time when he had led the children of Israel through it. Then he went to the mountains and valleys, which told him that God had concealed Moses, keeping him for the life in the future world, and no creature knew where he was."

His wishes to avoid death

When God said to Moses that he must die, Moses replied: "Must I die now, after all the trouble I have had with the people? I have beheld their sufferings; why should I not also behold their joys? Thou hast written in the Torah: 'At his day thou shalt give him his hire' why dost thou not give me the reward of my toil?" God assured him that he should receive his reward in the future world. Moses then asked why he must die at all, whereupon God enumerated some of the sins for which he had deserved death, one of them being the murder of the Egyptian.

According to another version, Moses had to die so that he might not be taken for a god. Moses then began to become excited, saying he would live like the beasts of the field and the birds, which get their daily food only for the sake of remaining alive. He desired to renounce the entry into the promised land and remain with the tribes of Reuben and Gad in the country east of the Jordan, if only he might remain alive. God said that this could not be done, since the people would leave Joshua and return to him.

Moses then begged that one of his children or one of the children of his brother Aaron might succeed him. God answered that his children had not devoted themselves to the Law, whereas Joshua had served Moses faithfully and had learned from him; he therefore deserved to succeed his teacher.