[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Military reserve force

becomes a retired NCO. The main sources of reserve NCOs are:
 Movement from active-duty to reserve service, preserving NCO rank
 Military schools, which prepare career NCOs who join the reserve after their active-duty service
 Promotion from enlisted rank during reserve service
 Reserve NCO courses

In countries with conscription, reserve NCOs are military personnel with relevant rank who are not on active duty and have not reached the upper age limit. In addition to the upper age limit, intermediate age limits determine the priority of wartime mobilization (younger ages are subject to mobilization first). Reserve NCOs are subject to mandatory short-term military training in peacetime. They have civilian status, except for military training in peacetime and wartime mobilization. A reserve NCO becomes a retired NCO at the upper age limit. Their main sources of NCOs are:
 Promotion from enlisted rank during active-duty service, following demobilization
 Promotion from enlisted rank during short-term military training in peacetime
 Military schools
 Reserve NCO courses

In countries which combine conscription and a volunteer military, reserve NCOs are divided into two categories: non-commissioned officers-reservists and reserve non-commissioned officers. Non-commissioned officers-reservists have signed a contract to perform military service on a part-time basis. Reserve non-commissioned officers are not on active duty, have not signed a contract to perform military service as reservists, and have not reached the upper age limit. Non-commissioned officers-reservists have civilian status, except for the days when they are carrying out their military duties. Reserve non-commissioned officers have civilian status, except for military training in peacetime and wartime mobilization. Non-commissioned officers-reservists are subject to mobilization in wartime first. Reserve non-commissioned officers (non-reservists) are divided into categories which determine the priority of wartime mobilization (younger ages are subject to mobilization first)Первый разряд, Второй разряд, and Третий разряд in Russia. Upon expiration of the contract, a non-commissioned officer-reservist becomes a reserve non-commissioned officer. A reserve NCO becomes a retired NCO at the upper age limit. The main sources of reserve NCOs are:
 Promotion from enlisted rank during active duty service, following demobilization
 Promotion from enlisted rank during short-term military training in peacetime
 Military schools
 Promotion from enlisted rank during reserve service
 Reserve NCO courses

Warrant officers

In countries with a volunteer military, reserve warrant officers are military personnel with relevant rank who have signed a contract to perform military service on a part-time basis. They have civilian status, except for the days when they are carrying out their military duties. Most reserve warrant officers are former active duty warrant officers. The main sources of reserve warrant officers are military schools and reserve warrant-officers courses.

In countries with conscription, reserve warrant officers are military personnel with the relevant rank who are not on active duty and have not reached the upper age limit. In addition to the upper-age limit, intermediate age limits determine wartime mobilization priority; younger officers are mobilized first. The main sources of reserve warrant officers are promotion during active-duty service or short-term peacetime training, assessment after demobilization, military schools, and reserve warrant-officer courses.

Commissioned officers

In countries with a volunteer military, reserve officers are personnel with an officer's commission who have signed a contract to perform part-time military service. They have civilian status, except when carrying out their military duties. Most reserve officers are former active-duty officers, but some become reserve officers after promotion. The main sources of reserve officers are:
 Military schools, colleges and academies, which prepare career officers (who join the reserve after concluding active duty)
 Military educational units in civilian higher-education institutions of higher education, such as the US' Reserve Officers' Training Corps
 Reserve officer's courses
 Direct commission

In countries with conscription, reserve officers are officers who are not on active duty and have not reached the upper age limit. The main sources of reserve officers are:
 Training and assessment at the end of conscript service. About eight percent of Finnish conscripts become reserve officers after one year of service.
 Military educational units in civilian higher-education institutions, such as military departments () in Ukraine and military faculties () in Belarus
 Military schools, colleges and academies, which prepare career officers (who join the reserve after concluding active duty)
 Reserve-officer courses