[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War

iring on the Israelis. The ship was registered in Cambodia, but sailing under Egyptian flag, carrying several hundred tons of cement. The ship sank in minutes, but the Egyptian crew managed to board lifeboats and was picked up by another civilian vessel.  One crewman, however, was seriously injured.

Hezbollah launched about 100 Katyusha rockets on Israeli towns of Nahariya, Safed, Hatzor HaGlilit, Rosh Pina, Kiryat Shmona, and Karmiel, and in the agricultural settlements Mattat, Sasa, Peki'in, Beit Jan, Biria, Biranit, Kabri, Gesher Haziv, Sa'ar and Ben Ami, resulting in 30 injuries.
Late the same day, a Katyusha in Meron killed two people, a grandmother and her 5-year-old grandson, and residents of Haifa are reportedly being ordered into bomb shelters.

The Jerusalem Post reported that an attempt by a group of Hezbollah members to enter Israel was stopped by IDF.

The number of Lebanese civilians killed in the Israeli strikes rises above 50, and the United Nations convened an emergency meeting of the Security Council where Lebanon accused Israel of launching "a widespread barbaric aggression".

Saturday, July 15

Three Patriot anti-ballistic missile batteries were deployed in Haifa. These are aimed at intercepting missiles launched at Haifa. The last time Patriot missiles were deployed to the region was in 2003, during the Iraq War.

Israeli Defence Minister Amir Peretz has declared martial law throughout north Israel.

On July 15, Israel attacked commercial ports in the towns of Beirut and Tripoli, as well as ports in Jounieh and Amsheet, two predominantly Christian towns.

A witness reported that at least 15 Lebanese villagers were killed on July 15 in an Israeli air strike on vehicles fleeing a village in southern Lebanon. The convoy left the border village of Marwahin, was refused asylum in a U.N. base and afterwards it was attacked. It is also reported that some hours before the strike, Israeli forces had told the inhabitants of the village to evacuate by loudspeaker.

Sunday, July 16
On the morning of July 16, several barrages of Katyusha rockets hit the northern cities of Haifa, Acre, and Nahariya, and explosions were also heard in Rosh HaNikra. Eight were killed in Haifa, and several were seriously wounded when unguided rockets hit a railway maintenance depot. Al-Manar has reported that the Hezbollah attack included a Fajr-3 and a Ra'ad 1 liquid-fuel missiles, developed by Iran. Hezbollah said the attack was aimed at a large Israeli fuel storage plant adjacent to the railway facility. Photo of the area, with oil drums and smoke rising from the railway depot. Rockets also hit the villages of Shtula and Zar'it, the site of the original Hezbollah attack. Additional barrages hit the Israeli Arab town of Ghajar and kibbutz Ma'ayan Baruch as well as striking Meron and Safed again, all with no injuries.
On Sunday evening Hezbollah militants attempted to infiltrate an Israel Defense Forces post on the Lebanese Border.

On July 16, Lebanese President Émile Lahoud and Lebanese military sources stated that Israeli forces had used white phosphorus incendiary bombs against civilian targets on villages in the Arqoub area in the South accusing Israel of using banned weapons against Lebanese civilians.
This claim has not been verified. (However, according to several sources, mainly UN, Israel artillery sprayed the entire Southern Lebanon with cluster bombs, mostly outdated surplus from previous wars, some as old as 1982. As much as 2/3 of the explosives was reported unexploded, and according to UN mine clearing units as of March 2008 still on average killing or wounding one Lebanese every second day. UN has to date disarmed 160.000 hidden bomb units but believes to have another million to go.)

On July 16, Sky News reported that Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah was wounded in a morning air strike on his Beirut compound, though Hezbollah affiliated sources have denied the reports as propaganda. News services report that three explosions have been heard in Beirut. Hezbollah TV reports that the air strike destroyed a building containing the headquarters of Hezbollah, with Hezbollah's chief, Hassan Nasrallah, likely inside. He was not harmed, however, and has since released a videotape.

Monday, July 17
The Hezbollah leader, Nasrallah, said in his third televised speech since the conflict began that "In the beginning, we started to act calmly, we focused on Israel military bases and we didn't attack any settlement, Hizbullah militants had destroyed military bases, while the Israelis killed civilians and targeted Lebanon's infrastructure." He added that Hezbollah's arsenal had yet to take a direct hit "and so far we have used a small portion of our weaponry."