[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Benny Feilhaber

hances to score. One such pass was a through ball for Clint Dempsey, who was then fouled in the box. Landon Donovan took the subsequent penalty and scored to tie the score at 1–1, although Ghana would later come back in the first half of extra time to score through Asamoah Gyan, ending the game 2–1.

Feilhaber was not called up to a national camp from January 2014 until October 2017, even during and after his 2015 MLS Landon Donovan MVP Award finalist season. This has led Feilhaber become critical of national team manager Jürgen Klinsmann and his selection of players, saying "I don't think Jurgen calls in the best players that are available to him." Feilhaber went on to mention Sacha Kljestan, Dax McCarty, Matt Hedges, and Eric Lichaj as other players performing well that have not been called up by Klinsmann. Klinsmann responded that Feilhaber was not able to perform as well as the national team staff hoped in prior camps, and saying that "He doesn't have a coach's perspective. He doesn't know how we put the pieces together. He doesn't know how we evaluate every position, how we evaluated the pieces that we need to connect."

Coaching career
On August 25, 2020, Feilhaber returned to his former youth club UCLA Bruins as an assistant coach under head coach Ryan Jorden. He left the position on January 26, 2021, to return to Sporting Kansas City, becoming the Director of Technical Operations on the Sporting KC technical staff. On August 23, he was appointed U-17 manager at Sporting Kansas' academy.

Feilhaber was named head coach of Sporting Kansas City II for the 2022 season.

Personal life
Born in Rio de Janeiro, Feilhaber has stated that he supports the Brazilian team Botafogo. His father is a supporter of the team, and he has been one since a child.

He married his wife, Michele, on December 15, 2012. Feilhaber has a daughter named Sofia and a daughter named Julia.

Career statistics

Club

International

Scores and results list the United States' goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Feilhaber goal.

Honors
United States
 CONCACAF Gold Cup: 2007

Sporting Kansas City
 MLS Cup: 2013
 U.S. Open Cup: 2015, 2017

Individual
 MLS All-Star: 2015
 MLS Best XI: 2015
 In 2010 he was inducted into the Southern California Jewish Sports Hall of Fame.

See also
 Austrian Brazilian
 List of select Jewish football (association; soccer) players

References

External links

Official Danish Superliga player statistics at danskfodbold.com 

1985 births
Jewish American sportspeople
Jewish men's footballers
2007 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
2007 Copa América players
2009 FIFA Confederations Cup players
2009 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
2010 FIFA World Cup players
Aarhus Gymnastikforening players
American expatriate men's soccer players
American expatriate soccer players in Germany
American expatriate sportspeople in England
American men's soccer players
Brazilian men's footballers
American people of Austrian-Jewish descent
American people of Brazilian-Jewish descent
Brazilian Jews
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in Germany
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in England
Brazilian emigrants to the United States
Brazilian people of Austrian-Jewish descent
Danish Superliga players
Derby County F.C. players
Expatriate men's footballers in Denmark
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Bundesliga players
Maccabiah Games medalists in football
Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics
Hamburger SV players
Hamburger SV II players
Living people
Major League Soccer players
Major League Soccer All-Stars
Maccabiah Games silver medalists for the United States
Competitors at the 2005 Maccabiah Games
New England Revolution players
Olympic soccer players for the United States
Footballers from Rio de Janeiro (city)
Premier League players
Sporting Kansas City players
UCLA Bruins men's soccer players
United States men's international soccer players
CONCACAF Gold Cup-winning players
United States men's under-20 international soccer players
United States men's under-23 international soccer players
Men's association football midfielders
Soccer players from New York (state)
Los Angeles FC players
Colorado Rapids players
UCLA Bruins men's soccer coaches
21st-century American Jews
Sporting Kansas City non-playing staff
Sporting Kansas City II coaches
USL Championship coaches
21st-century American sportsmen