[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ice March

ttle was fought against the Bolsheviks in which a number of volunteer officers froze to death crossing a small river with shallow icy water, hence the name of the campaign. By the end of March, the Volunteer Army was able to absorb Viktor Pokrovsky's Kuban Army, which had recently fled Ekaterinodar.

With his army now double in size, Kornilov decided to mount an attack on Ekaterinodar, the capital of the recently established North Caucasian Soviet Republic. Kornilov organized his army into three brigades under Markov, Bogaevskii and Erdeli. The attack, which began on 10 April, was met with heavy resistance from forces more than twice the size of the Volunteers. Kornilov was killed when an artillery shell hit the farmhouse where he had set up headquarters. Some accounts have characterized this event as "very bad luck" because shell had hit the one room where Kornilov was, killing him but not injuring anybody else present in the building.
He was succeeded in command by Denikin, who decided to abandon the assault after five days of fighting, and withdraw to the north. Hearing of the death of Kornilov, Lenin told the Moscow Soviet, "It can be said with certainty that, in the main, the civil war has ended." 

On the evening of 13 April, the Volunteer Army's forced march began in order to save the demoralized Volunteer Army, avoiding large Red forces. Denikin left 211 of his severely wounded, with doctors and nurses, at Elizavetinskaia, Diad'kovskaia, and Il'inskaia. By the beginning of May, the army had made it back to the border of the Don. According to Kenez, "The Ice March had ended. The Army, which had started the march with four thousand soldiers, had five thousand at the end of the campaign. But the greatest achievement of the march was simply survival."

Aftermath
The Volunteer Army established its headquarters in Mechetinskaia and Egorlykskaia, and established contact with Ataman Pyotr Krasnov. Krasnov agreed to support the Volunteer Army with weapons and money, and take on the sick and wounded. In June, Alekseev established a political department in Novocherkassk, and Denikin published his "Goals of the Army". Amongst other points, it stated "the Germans must withdraw from the territory of Russia; the Bolsheviks  must capitulate and be disarmed..."

Memory

All those who survived the First Kuban Campaign, referred to as pervopokhodniks (, "First-campaigners", see :ru:Первопоходник) were awarded the  in memory of their courage and  martyrdom.

References
Figes, O. A People's Tragedy: the Russian Revolution, 1891-1924, 1997.
Kenez, P. Civil War in South Russia: the First Year of the Volunteer Army, 1971
Mawdsley, E. The Russian Civil War, 2005.
Alexey Tolstoy, " Road to Calvary", book two "18th year".

Notes

History of the Don Cossacks
History of Kuban
Russian Civil War
White movement