[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rajanpur District

Rajanpur () is a district of the Pakistani province of Punjab, with its administrative headquarters the city of Rajanpur. Lying west of the Indus River, its inhabitants are mostly Saraikis and Baloch. According to the 1998 census, the district had a population of , and 14.27% of these were inhabitants of urban areas.

Administrative subdivisions
The district of Rajanpur comprises three administrative subdivisions (Tehsil) and 44 Union Councils.

Etymology and geography
The anatomy of Rajanpur district is associated with its town Rajanpur, which was founded by Makhdoom Sheikh Rajan Shah in 1770. It was merged with Dera Ghazi Khan district in 1982. Rajanpur is situated in the west side of River Indus. Its north side is bounded by Dera Ghazi Khan district, and west by Dera Bugti district of Balochistan. The east side is bounded by Muzaffargarh and Rahim Yar Khan districts, while its south part is covered by Kashmore district of Sindh province. The Sulaiman Mountains rise to the west of the district.

Demographics
At the time of the 2017 census the district had a population of 1,996,039, of which 1,028,164 were males and 967,668 females. Rural population is 1,658,743 while the urban population is 337,296. The literacy rate was 33.75%. Muslims made up almost the entire population with 99.89%.

At the time of the 2017 census, 74.61% of the population spoke Saraiki, 18.75% Balochi, 2.93% Urdu and 2.74% Punjabi as their first language.

The major tribes in this district are Jat, Arain, Rajput and Baloch.

History
The Vedic period is characterized by Indo-Aryan culture that flourished in Punjab region. The Kambojas, Daradas, Kaikayas, Madras, Pauravas, Yaudheyas, Malavas and Kurus invaded, settled and ruled ancient Punjab region. After overrunning the Achaemenid Empire in 331 BCE, Alexander marched into present-day Punjab region with an army of 50,000. The Rajanpur was ruled by Maurya Empire, Indo-Greek kingdom, Kushan Empire, Gupta Empire, White Huns, Kushano-Hephthalites and the Turk and Hindu Shahi kingdoms.

In 997 CE, Sultan Mahmud Ghaznavi, took over the Ghaznavid dynasty empire established by his father, Sultan Sebuktegin. In 1005, he conquered the Shahis in Kabul in 1005, and followed it by the conquests of Punjab region. The Delhi Sultanate and later Mughal Empire ruled the region. The Punjab region became predominantly Muslim due to missionary Sufi saints whose dargahs dot the landscape of Punjab region.

After the decline of the Mughal Empire, the Sikh Empire invaded and occupied Rajanpur district. The Muslims faced restrictions during the Sikh rule. During the period of British rule, Rajanpur district increased in population and importance.

The predominantly Muslim population supported Muslim League and Pakistan Movement. After the independence of Pakistan in 1947, the minority Hindus and Sikhs migrated to India while the Muslim refugees from India settled in the Rajanpur district.

Education
Rajanpur has a total of 1,160 government schools out of which 41% (479 schools) are for female students. The district's public schools have 148,746 enrollments.

Agriculture
Agriculture in Rajanpur depends solely upon canal irrigation since rainfall is negligible in the region. The five rivers of Punjab meet at the locality of Wang near Mithankot; hence these rivers provide water for irrigation as well as for domestic usage.  Rainfall occurs during the monsoon season (July–September). Occasional heavy rainfall causes flooding in this region, but such floods are rare. In Rajanpur, floodwaters come from the Koh Sultan and Shacher torrents (rivulets), as well as the Indus.

Rajanpur district is famous for cotton and sugarcane crops, although they are cultivating wheat and rice as well and tobacco to a minimal extent too.

Business 
Rajanpur is also famous for its cotton business. There are many cotton industries in this district that play an essential role in fulfilling the needs of cotton for textile mills. However, some of the people also do agricultural work, which is a leading business of Rajanpur.

Irrigation system

Canal irrigation 
The agriculture of Rajanpur depends upon canal irrigation in some areas of Rajanpur peoples drinking canal water in these areas Pachad include: