[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John S. Bowen

ainst army commander Earl Van Dorn for failing to make a proper reconnaissance of the Union positions before the battle, "marching the troops in a hastily and disorderly manner", failing to attack early on the second day, and neglecting the wounded. The court-martial cleared Van Dorn of all charges.

Van Dorn was relieved of command in December and John C. Pemberton was put in his place commanding the Vicksburg, Mississippi garrison. Bowen was assigned to fortify the post of Grand Gulf with a brigade of infantry. Over the next several weeks, he constructed naval batteries along the river. After becoming convinced that Grant would land near Grand Gulf, he repeatedly requested Pemberton for additional supplies and men but each request was refused. At the Battle of Port Gibson, Bowen, despite being severely outnumbered, managed to delay Ulysses S. Grant's Army of the Tennessee for most of a day and he personally led two counterattacks. For his stand, he was promoted to major general on May 25, 1863, although his nomination was never approved by the Confederate Congress. Despite pleas for reinforcements, Pemberton and General Joseph E. Johnston failed to react quickly and Grant was able to resume his march through Mississippi. After uniting with the rest of Pemberton's army, Bowen was given a division. He next fought at the Battle of Champion Hill, where a counterattack by his division almost split Grant's army in half. When the rest of the army failed to support his attack, Bowen was forced to retreat. After battle Pemberton retreated to Vicksburg and he ordered Bowen to cover the retreat. He suffered defeat at the Battle of Big Black River Bridge on the Big Black River. Accompanying Bowen to Mississippi was his wife, Mary Kennerly Bowen of St. Louis. She refused to be separated from her husband. When Bowen left St. Louis to enter the war, Mary was by his side, leaving their two young children, Menard Kennerly (age 7) and Anna (age 2) at the family home to be cared for by Mary's mother. He took part in the final defense of Vicksburg, helping in the defeat of Union assaults, but grew ill with dysentery during the siege. Early in the siege, Bowen tried to negotiate surrender with Grant, a friend from the antebellum days, but was turned away; he did help ease the negotiations that led to the July 4 surrender. After being paroled, he succumbed to dysentery and died near Edwards, Mississippi.

He was at first buried near where he died in Mississippi but his body was later transferred to the Confederate States Army Cemetery in Vicksburg. Following his death, he was praised by his contemporaries as being one of the best generals of the Western Theater and referred to by one biographer as being the real "Stonewall of the West". Other contemporaries also believed that Bowen, "was not second to any Major General then in the Confederate Service". An attempt after to war to erect a monument to Bowen failed to raise the necessary funds.
His bust stands in the Vicksburg National Military Park near Stockade Redan on Graveyard Road with his brigade.

Dates of rank
 Captain (Missouri State Guard), March 1, 1861
 Lieutenant colonel, April 15, 1861
 Colonel, June 11, 1861
 Brigadier general, March 14, 1862
 Major general, May 25, 1863

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes
Footnotes

Citations

References
 Ballard, Michael B., Vicksburg, The Campaign that Opened the Mississippi. Chapel Hill, North Carolina: University of North Carolina Press, 2004. .
 Cozzens, Peter. The Darkest Days of the War: The Battles of Iuka & Corinth. Chapel Hill, North Carolina: University of North Carolina Press, 1997. .
 Daniel, Larry, Shiloh: The Battle that Changed the Civil War. Simon and Schuster, 1997. .
 Eicher, John H., and Eicher, David J., Civil War High Commands. Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Patterson, Gerard A., Rebels from West Point, Stackpole Books, 2002, .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Confederacy. New York: FactsOnFile, 1988. .
 Sword, Wiley, Shiloh: Bloody April. Morningside Books, 1974. .
 Tucker, Phillip Thomas. The Forgotten "Stonewall of the West": Major General John Stevens Bowen. Macon, Georgia: Mercer University Press, 1997. .
 Warner, Ezra J., Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .
History of the University of Georgia, Thomas Walter Reed,  Imprint:  Athens, Georgia : University of Georgia, ca. 1949 p.484

Further reading
Bearss, Edwin C., The Vicksburg Campaign, 3 volumes, Morningside Press, 1991, .

External links
Description of Bowen's death at Champion Hill website