[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# P300-CBP coactivator family

not know how a reduction in the amount of CBP or p300 protein leads to the specific features of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome, it is clear that the loss of one copy of the CBP or p300 gene disrupts normal development.

Defects in CBP HAT activity appears to cause problems in long-term memory formation.

CBP and p300 have also been found to be involved in multiple rare chromosomal translocations that are associated with acute myeloid leukemia.  For example, researchers have found a translocation between chromosomes 8 and 22 (in the region containing the p300 gene) in several people with a cancer of blood cells called acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Another translocation, involving chromosomes 11 and 22, has been found in a small number of people who have undergone cancer treatment. This chromosomal change is associated with the development of AML following chemotherapy for other forms of cancer.

Mutations in the p300 gene have been identified in several other types of cancer. These mutations are somatic, which means they are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in certain cells. Somatic mutations in the p300 gene have been found in a small number of solid tumors, including cancers of the colon and rectum, stomach, breast and pancreas. Studies suggest that p300 mutations may also play a role in the development of some prostate cancers, and could help predict whether these tumors will increase in size or spread to other parts of the body. In cancer cells, p300 mutations prevent the gene from producing any functional protein. Without p300, cells cannot effectively restrain growth and division, which can allow cancerous tumors to form.

Mouse models 

CBP and p300 are critical for normal embryonic development, as mice completely lacking either CBP or p300 protein, die at an early embryonic stage.  In addition, mice which lack one functional copy (allele) of both the CBP and p300 genes (i.e. are heterozygous for both CBP and p300) and thus have half of the normal amount of both CBP and p300, also die early in embryogenesis.  This indicates that the total amount of CBP and p300 protein is critical for embryo development.
Data suggest that some cell types can tolerate loss of CBP or p300 better than the whole organism can.  Mouse B cells or T cells lacking either CBP and p300 protein develop fairly normally, but B or T cells that lack both CBP and p300 fail to develop in vivo.  Together, the data indicate that, while individual cell types require different amounts of CBP and p300 to develop or survive and some cell types are more tolerant of loss of CBP or p300 than the whole organism, it appears that many, if not all cell types may require at least some p300 or CBP to develop.

References

External links 
 
 
 
 p300-CBP regulatory mechanism in the IFN-β enhanceosome complex

Gene families

Membrane biology
EC 2.3.1
Transcription coregulators