[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of controversies involving the Royal Canadian Mounted Police

investigation into the matter, which was resumed by the Ottawa Police Service after his resignation. That investigation found serious nepotism and wasteful spending. A follow-up investigation by the Auditor-General found millions of dollars inappropriately charged to the pension and insurance plans.

A subsequent investigation conducted by a former head of the Ontario Securities Commission strongly criticized the management style of Zaccardelli, who, he said, was responsible for "a fundamental breach of trust" and called for a major shake-up of the force. Specifically, RCMP members and employees who attempted to address the pension fund issue suffered "career damage" for doing so, according to the investigators findings. Interim RCMP Commissioner Beverley Busson concurred with the recommendations and promised that individuals that the upper ranks attempted to silence would be thanked and recognized.

Constable Justin Harris and the Prince George RCMP
Following the 2002 case of a Prince George judge, David Ramsay, who pleaded guilty to misconduct with young prostitutes, similar allegations were made against Constable Justin Harris and other RCMP officers. Harris was accused of having touched an underage prostitute, paying a prostitute for sex, and refusing to pay at all, between 1993 and 2001.

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police Act forbids a hearing from taking place more than one-year after a senior officer has been made aware of such allegations, but because the allegations had been made against nine officers with little evidence, the RCMP did not launch a criminal investigation against Harris and did not launch a misconduct hearing until 2005. On October 4, 2006, the RCMP disciplinary board decided to stop all proceedings against Harris because the investigation conflicted with the RCMP Act. (This decision has since been appealed by the senior RCMP officer in BC) Public outcry from people like Daisy Kler of Vancouver Rape Relief and Women's Shelter criticized the RCMP's internal investigation policies.

Ian Bush incident
On October 29, 2005, Ian Bush, 22 was arrested in Houston, British Columbia. At the RCMP detachment office, Bush died due to a single gunshot wound to the back of the head.

Constable Paul Koester and Bush were alone in the interrogation room. Koester claimed Bush attacked him, and that he was being choked from behind to unconsciousness and acted in self-defence. An investigation was conducted by an RCMP team brought in from another region. That investigation was reviewed by several agencies including the Ministry of the Attorney General of BC, and the federal Civilian Review and Complaints Commission for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Koester was cleared of any wrongdoing. The Coroner's Inquest into the death reached the same conclusion.

Conflicting evidence was given at the inquest. The analyses of the blood spatter evidence by an RCMP forensics officer, Jim Hignell, and Edmonton police constable, Joseph Slemko, differed; the former supporting Koester's account, the latter contradicting it.

Role in the death of Robert Dziekański
The death of Robert Dziekański occurred when Dziekański, a Polish immigrant, arrived at the Vancouver International Airport on October 13, 2007. After being released from Customs after a ten-hour delay, he became agitated and violent. Four RCMP officers attended to arrest Dziekański; one fired a Taser after which Dziekański fell to the ground. He was then pinned and handcuffed by the officers, and then Tasered repeatedly until he lost consciousness. Testimony from the officers differs regarding whether or not Dziekański's pulse was checked, but when paramedics arrived approximately 15 minutes later he could not be resusciated, and he was declared dead at the scene. Police were heavily criticized for their handling of the incident, and the incident has revived debate concerning police use of tasers in Canada. A public inquiry into the incident ruled Dziekański's death a homicide, and two of the officers were convicted of perjury for giving false statements to the inquiry regarding their actions in the incident.

Royal Inland Hospital taser incident
In May 2008, at Royal Inland Hospital in Kamloops, an RCMP officer used a taser on 82-year-old Frank Lasser while he was in his hospital bed. He was reportedly "delirious" and wielding a knife.

Allegation of political bias against Insite
In October 2008, it was revealed that the RCMP had used taxpayer money to pay individuals to write negative, politically biased reports about the Vancouver safe injection site, Insite. In addition to this, memos were distributed referring to British Columbia's Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS - a nationally renowned repository of some of the top AIDS research in the world - as the "Centre for Excrements", and suggesting stacking radio shows with callers against Insite.

Mountie takes woman home from jail