[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hillary Step

n on the ropes and thereby slowing the flow of people up and down the mountain.

Before 2015, the descending sequence along Everest's southeast ridge was:
 Summit of Everest
 Final slope to summit
 Hillary Step  rock cliff
 Cornice traverse (knife-edge ridge)
 South Summit of Everest
 The Balcony ()

2015 alteration 
It was suspected in 2016 that the April 2015 Nepal earthquake had altered the Hillary Step, but there was so much snow it was not clear whether it had truly changed. Kenton Cool wrote that the Hillary Step "is only 12 to 15 feet [3.7 to 4.6 m] high." In May 2017, Tim Mosedale and other climbers reported that "the Hillary Step is no more", although the full extent and interpretation of the changes were still nascent. Another climber who thought the Step changed by 2016 was six-time Everest summiter David Liaño Gonzalez, who summited in 2013 and 2016, when the relevant changes are reported to have occurred. However, some important Nepalese climbers, including Ang Tshering Sherpa, chairman of the Nepal Mountaineering Association, reported that the Step was still intact but covered in more snow than before. Later in the year, after seeing a large exhibition of photos from 2006 to 2016, he did agree that at least the upper portion of the step had indeed changed.

Peter Hillary, Edmund Hillary's son, was asked his opinion about the Step based on photos. He agreed it was there in part, but seemed to think it had undergone some sort of a change, noting especially what looked like a fresh broken rock. By early June 2017, more reports and photographic evidence came in, with Garrett Madison reporting that the step had conclusively changed. Dave Hahn, who has climbed Everest 15 times, was shown photos and agreed that it was changed. A special kind of mourning hit the community with realization of missing rocks and freshly hewn scars of new coloured rock at this landmark feature. Hahn noted how it was a great tribute to Hillary and Tenzing and he thought of them whenever he scrambled over it.

Later in 2017, mountaineering guide Lhakpa Rangdu mounted a photo exhibition at the Nepal Tourism Board showing how the Hillary Step area had changed. Rangdu has climbed Everest multiple times since 2005, including before and after the big Nepal earthquake, and he is a trained photographer. The combination of these skills—high-altitude photography and mountaineering—allowed him to provide a photographic history of the Hillary Step, and he has said that it is indeed gone.

See also
1953 British Mount Everest Expedition 
Mount Everest in 2017
Hillary Montes (Also named after Edmund Hillary)
Hillary Peak
Aiguille du Dru (2005 rock-fall ended climbing of Bonatti route)
Aoraki / Mount Cook (2013 rock-fall shortened mountain)
Three Steps

References

External links

 Rock and Ice - The Hillary Step: Gone, Altered, or Simply Hidden? (May 2017)
Link to a picture of the Hillary Step feature (circa 2008)
Part way down is picture from on it looking up
Helmet cam near step at around 1:30

Mount Everest
2015 Nepal earthquakes
Edmund Hillary