[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Georgette Mosbacher

rs for Diligence London, Harvard Center For Public Leadership, Gow & Partners LLC,  Grupo Brasilinvest S.A., and Village Cares. She is a chairman of the Green Beret Foundation and a board-member for Business Executives for National Security (BENS) and the Atlantic Council, among other organizations.

Awards and recognition
Georgette Mosbacher has received several awards throughout her career, including the Ellis Island Medal of Honor, the Entrepreneurial Woman of the Year Award from the American Women's Economic Development Corporation, the Distinguished Humanitarian Award from Brandeis University, and the Outstanding Business Leader Award from the Northwood Institute. In 2002, the National Republican Congressional Committee's (NRCC) Business Advisory Council awarded Mosbacher with their National Leadership Award, in part citing her activism relating to small business issues. In March 2015, Mosbacher was given the Founder's Award from Hedge Funds Care "in recognition of her efforts spearheading the Manhattan Children’s Advocacy Center." She holds a Doctor of Business Administration Honorary Causa from Bryant College and an honorary doctorate from the International Fine Arts College.

On January 12, 2021 President of Poland Andrzej Duda decorated her with 1st class Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland, the order was awarded "in recognition of outstanding achievements in developing Polish-American friendly relations and cooperation, and for involvement in activities for international security."

Personal life
Based in Manhattan, in the 1970s Mosbacher was married to Robert Muir, and after their divorce in 1977, for a time she was married to George Barrie, the CEO of Fabergé and Brut Productions. On March 1, 1985, she married Robert Mosbacher, moving to Houston. In 1989 President, George H. W. Bush appointed Robert Mosbacher to the position of United States Secretary of Commerce. On June 12, 1990, she was robbed at gun point in front of her hotel room at the Barbizon Plaza in Manhattan (now Trump Parc). She dove into an elevator, the door of which unexpectedly opened, rang the alarm and rode it to the ground floor; the gunman vanished with her jewelry and handbag. After 13 years of marriage, Georgette Mosbacher and her husband divorced in 1998. In 2017, she gave a brief video tour of her Fifth Avenue home, discussing her many distinguished guests at parties there, on the NBC television series Open House.

Controversies
Mosbacher courted controversy when she suggested that Poland was responsible for the re-emergence of anti-Semitism across the continent of Europe because of a law which criminalizes blaming Poland for the actions of Nazi Germany on its soil during the Holocaust.

Prior to being appointed, Polish President Andrzej Duda stated that if Mosbacher were appointed as the new U.S. ambassador to Poland, she would be accepted, despite having made "unnecessary and mistaken" comments about the country.

Publishing history

See also

List of chief executive officers
List of female top executives
List of entrepreneurs

References

External links

 GeorgetteMosbacher.com
New York Center for Children (founder, director)

1947 births
Living people
Ambassadors of the United States to Poland
American chief executives of fashion industry companies
American chief executives of manufacturing companies
American women ambassadors
American women chief executives
Atlantic Council
Indiana University alumni
People from Highland, Lake County, Indiana
21st-century American women