[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

ich took no more than an hour. After receiving follow-up orders, however, Phelps had a small section of the bridge burned and destroyed some of the rails to prevent the Confederates from using it after they departed. Before leaving Phelps' crews had captured supplies that were headed for Fort Henry.

During the aftermath of the capture of Fort Henry, Phelps continued upriver to a landing at Cerro Gordon where the Confederates were in the process of building and completing an ironclad gunboat, Eastport.  The fleeing Confederates had no time to effectively scuttle the ship, and Phelps' crews quickly went ashore and saved the vessel, 280 feet long and in excellent condition, and capturing a large quantity of ship's lumber and other material used for the completion of the vessel. Phelps reported that her engines were in first-rate order and the boilers, not yet installed, had been dropped into the hold. Phelps had Captain William Gwin and the Tyler remain, the slowest of the gunboats, to guard the captured gunboat, while his crew cut telegraph lines and tore up track. Phelps proceeded to pursue fleeing Confederate transports with his other two gunboats, Conestoga and Lexington, while also engaging in a search and destroy mission, and creating havoc at every opportunity along the way. After five hours the faster Conestoga left the Lexington behind and closed in on Confederate Captain Sam Orr, who was forced to set his vessel, containing guns and ammunition, on fire. Phelps ordered his gunboat to remain a safe distance from the blazing vessel, which soon exploded and was completely destroyed. Phelps continued on and soon spotted and overcame two more Confederate gunboats, the Appleton Belle and Lynn Boyd. Their captains realizing they would soon be captured, landed their craft in front of the home of Judge Creavatt, a Union sympathizer, and set them ablaze. Phelps again remained at a safe distance, but when the Confederate vessel, loaded with 1000 pounds of gunpowder, exploded, it shattered the skylights of the Conestoga and caused other minor damage, while the judge's home was shattered from the nearby explosion. Phelps' three timberclads finally arrived at Cerro Gordo by 7 p.m., eight miles downstream from Savannah, Tennessee, where it was greeted by Confederate small arms gunfire from the shores. Phelps ordered the return of fire and turned about.

Phelps finally set out to return to Cairo, passing Commander Henry Walke and the USS Carondelet who had been ordered by General Grant to wait for Phelps' gunboats and then together proceed towards Fort Donelson. However, when Walke ordered Phelps to proceed to the next fort with him, Phelps refused, having already received a message to rendezvous with Commander Foote at Cario. Walke felt that Phelps refusal amounted to "insubordination" but Foote never said anything about the disagreement.

Fort Donelson

With the fall of Fort Henry General Grant was now preparing to move overland and capture Fort Donelson, approximately twelve miles to the east on the Cumberland River. Foote at this time insisted on returning to Cairo for badly needed repairs on his gunboats. After learning that only the Carondelet would lend naval support to his Army he urged General Halleck to have Foote promptly send more ironclads. Needing more time, Foote, however, relented and transferred men from the damaged gunboats to become part of another flotilla. On February 12, the gunboats Saint Louis, Pittsburg and Louisville passed the Conestoga and Lexington on their way to Cairo for repairs. Foote hailed the vessels and ordered Phelps to turn around and join his flotilla. The badly damaged Lexington, however, continued on, while Phelps, aboard the Conestoga, joined forces with Foote and together proceeded up the Ohio River.

Upon reaching Paducah, Kentucky the combined flotilla was joined by twelve troop transports. Later that afternoon the flotilla departed Paducah, with the Conestoga towing a barge filled with coal, followed by the ironclads. On their way up the Cumberland River the trip thus far was uneventful. About thirty-five miles below Fort Donelson the flotilla came upon the tug Alps, which had been used to tow Walke and his Carondelet to Fort Donelson who had proceeded alone after being rebuffed by Phelps earlier that day.