[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Armenians in France

as part of its campaign for the recognition of and reparations for the Armenian genocide. The explosion killed eight people and injured fifty-five. The campaign to pass the resolution condemning the Armenian genocide at the European Council unleashed on June 19, 1987, at a Strasbourg demonstration.

Contemporary period 
The devastating earthquake in Armenia on 7 December 1988 led to a huge mobilization of the French Armenian community. Among others, Charles Aznavour established a charitable foundation to help the victims of the earthquake.

As the Institut national d'études démographiques, France's national statistics agency, does not collect data on ethnicity there is no reliable information about the number of French people of Armenian ancestry. Various experts, media and organizations have estimated the number of French Armenians to be 250,000, 300,000, 400,000, 450,000, 500,000, 500,000–700,000, 750,000. As of 2005, there were 12,355 Armenian-born people residing in France.

Culture

Language and education
SIL Ethnologue as of 2009 estimated that Armenian is spoken by around 70,000 people in France.
Most French Armenians speak Western Armenian, while a minority (recent Armenian immigrants from Armenia and Armenians from Iran) speak Eastern Armenian.

Today, Armenian classes are organized in many localities with full bilingual kindergartens and primary schools near Paris and Marseille attended by several thousand children and youths. Armenian is currently a valid option counting toward the Baccalaureate, the French High School certificate.

Religion

The majority of the Armenian French population is of the Armenian Apostolic (Orthodox) faith and belong to the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin of the Armenian Apostolic Church. A minority of Armenians belong to the Catholic faith and are adherents of the Armenian Catholic Church. An estimated 5,000 Armenian Evangelicals live in France.

Each of the three Armenian Churches has its own organization in France. The Diocese of France the Armenian Apostolic Church under the spiritual guidance and jurisdiction of the Catholicos of All Armenians. The Diocese has its own Youth movement l'Association de la jeunesse de l’Eglise apostolique arménienne de France, which has chapters in the various 26 parishes of the Diocese.

The Eparchy of Sainte-Croix-de-Paris depends on the Armenian Catholic Church, and the Armenian Evangelical Churches Union of France, part of the Armenian Evangelical Church.

Institutions
The Armenian General Benevolent Union, one of the largest Armenian organizations in the world, was headquartered in Paris between 1922 and 1940.

The Armenian Social Aid Association, operating Armenian retirement homes, was founded before this period and is unique to France. National institutions, and first and foremost the Armenian Church of Paris founded in 1905, were very soon to co-exist in Paris, playing a fundamental role in defending and protecting the refugees.

In the municipalities with a high concentration of Armenians, there are a lot of associations in a vast array of fields ranging from the cultural (e.g.  in Décines, near Lyon or Radio , in Paris), social (e.g.  in Paris), sports (e.g.  and  football clubs), or more specific like the Association nationale des anciens combattants et résistants arméniens.

There are also umbrella organizations, the Forum des associations arméniennes de France, created in 1991, and the Conseil de coordination des organisations arméniennes de France, new name since 2001 of the  « Comité du 24 avril ».

Media
Press
The first Armenian journal in France began publishing in 1855. As of 1991, around two hundred Armenian newspapers and magazines have been published in France, more than any other European country. Currently, the only daily newspaper is Nor Haratch, an independent publication that started publishing on October 27, 2009, on the basis of 2 issues per week. It replaced Haratch (Յառաջ), a daily founded in 1925 by Schavarch Missakian that stopped publication in May 2009.

Online media
Nouvelles d'Arménie magazine
France-Arménie magazine

Broadcasting
AYP FM, radio station operating in Paris and Île-de-France
Radio Arménie, radio station operating in Lyon and the surrounding area
Radio Gayané, radio station

France and the Armenian genocide 

France is one of the countries that has recognized the Armenian genocide. There are monuments dedicated to the genocide victims in several cities in France, including Paris, Lyon, and Marseille.