[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election

John McCain. John Edwards drops out of the Democratic race in New Orleans. Mike Huckabee, Ron Paul, John McCain and Mitt Romney appear at a Republican debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, California.
 January 31 – A Democratic debate is held in Los Angeles.

February 2008

 February 2 – The Maine Republican caucus is won by Mitt Romney. MTV and MySpace co-host a debate, which is attended by Democrats Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton and Republicans Mike Huckabee and Ron Paul.
February 5 – Twenty-four states and American Samoa hold primaries as a part of Super Tuesday, 2008. Full results:
The Alabama Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama. The Republican primary is won by Mike Huckabee.
The Alaska Democratic caucus is won by Barack Obama. The Republican caucus is won by Mike Huckabee.
The American Samoa Democratic caucus is won by Hillary Clinton.
The Arizona Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by John McCain.
The Arkansas Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by Mike Huckabee. The Green primary is won by Cynthia McKinney.
The California Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by John McCain. The Libertarian primary is won by Christine Smith. The American Independent (the California affiliate of the Constitution Party) primary is won by Don J. Grundmann. The Green and Peace and Freedom primaries are won by Ralph Nader.
The Colorado Democratic caucus is won by Barack Obama. The Republican caucus is won by Mitt Romney.
The Connecticut Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama. The Republican primary is won by John McCain.
The Delaware Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama. The Republican primary is won by John McCain.
Voting begins in the Democrats Abroad primary.
The Georgia Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama. The Republican primary is won by Mike Huckabee.
The Idaho Democratic caucus is won by Barack Obama.
The Illinois Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama. The Republican primary is won by John McCain. The Green primary is won by Cynthia McKinney.
The Kansas Democratic caucus is won by Barack Obama.
The Massachusetts Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by Mitt Romney.
The Minnesota Democratic caucus is won by Barack Obama. The Republican caucuses are won by Mitt Romney.
The Missouri Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama. The Republican primary is won by John McCain. The Libertarian primary is won by "uncommitted".
The Montana Republican caucus is won by Mitt Romney.
The New Jersey Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by John McCain.
The New Mexico Democratic caucus is won by Hillary Clinton.
The New York Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by John McCain.
The North Dakota Democratic caucus is won by Barack Obama. The Republican caucus is won by Mitt Romney.
The Oklahoma Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by John McCain.
The Tennessee Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by Mike Huckabee.
The Utah Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama. The Republican primary is won by Mitt Romney.
The West Virginia Republican primary is won by Mike Huckabee.
 February 7 – Mitt Romney suspends his campaign.
 February 9 – The Louisiana Democratic primary, Nebraska Democratic caucuses, Washington Democratic caucuses, and the United States Virgin Islands Democratic territorial convention are won by Barack Obama. The Louisiana Republican primary is won by Mike Huckabee. However, as neither Huckabee nor McCain receive 50 percent of the vote, no delegates are assigned. The Kansas Republican caucus is won by Huckabee. John McCain is announced the winner of the Washington Republican caucus, the result of which is challenged by Mike Huckabee.
 February 10 – Hillary Clinton campaign manager Patti Solis Doyle resigns but remains with campaign as senior adviser. Maggie Williams is announced as her successor. The Maine Democratic caucus is won by Barack Obama.
 February 12 – The Washington Republican Party release updated results of the Washington Republican caucus. John McCain remains the winner. Voting ends in the Democrats Abroad primary. Three states hold Democratic and Republican primaries as part of the Potomac primary. The District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia Democratic primaries are won by Barack Obama. The District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia Republican primaries are won by John McCain.
 February 14 – Mitt Romney endorses John McCain for president.
 February 17 – Barack Obama and former candidate John Edwards meet at Edwards's home in North Carolina to discuss the possibility of Edwards endorsing Obama.
 February 19 – The Washington and Wisconsin Republican primaries are won by John McCain. The Wisconsin Democratic primary, Hawaii caucuses and Washington