[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cole Skuse

e Coppell offered Skuse a new extended contract until 2013, which he signed. He also started all four cup games for the club that season, including an FA Cup third-round replay defeat to rivals Cardiff City. Skuse has not played in multiple matches in either cup competition in a single season since.

Skuse made 30 appearances in the 2010–11 season, again partnered with Elliott. He picked up an injury on 25 January against Nottingham Forest, missing the next two months. Involved in the relegation battle, the club climbed five positions in the table during his injury, and finished the season in 15th. His only goal of the season came on the penultimate match-day against Derby County.

Skuse started the first eight games of the 2011–12 season, but was left out of the squad for the next two, which proved to be the final matches for Keith Millen in charge. The club hired new manager Derek McInnes from St Johnstone, who played Skuse in the full-back position on the right hand side. After picking up another toe injury against Crystal Palace on 14 February, Skuse missed the next month and a half. Upon his return, Skuse was returned to the midfield, and winter transfer Ricky Foster was used at right-back. Skuse scored the first goal in a 2–0 win at home to Barnsley on 21 April, securing the club's Championship status for next season. He also scored in a 1–1 draw with West Ham a few days earlier, and finished the season with two goals in 36 starts, as the club finished in 20th, nine points clear of relegation.

Skuse returned to his more familiar midfield position ahead of the 2012–13 season. On 6 November, he picked up an injury away to Birmingham, and missed the next month and a half. The club were in the relegation zone, in the middle of a seven match losing streak. He missed the whole month of February with a separate injury picked up against Watford. At the end of his last season with the club, Bristol City could not avoid relegation to League One, and Skuse left the club on a free transfer, although he later said the two were not related. His final appearance for the club came on 1 April 2013, in a draw against Sheffield Wednesday, and Skuse made 25 appearances in the league in his last season. He represented Bristol City 307 times across all competitions during his tenure, scoring 9 goals.

Ipswich Town
On 14 May 2013, Skuse signed a three-year deal with Ipswich Town. His professional debut with the club came in against Reading on 3 August, scoring an own-goal in the 3–1 defeat. He became an integral part of the Ipswich midfield during his first season at Portman Road, making a career-high 43 starts in the league, and was mostly partnered with Luke Hyam.

Skuse continued to serve as a first team regular during the 2014–15 season. He scored his first goal for Ipswich against Cardiff City on 14 April 2015, in his 82nd game for the club, with the strike eventually winning him the club's goal of the season award for the 2014–15 season. Skuse helped guide Ipswich to a 6th-place finish in the Championship table in the 2014–2015 season, qualifying for the play-offs as a result, their first appearance since 2005. However, Ipswich remained in the Championship following defeat to rivals Norwich in the play off semi-finals. Skuse made 40 starts during the regular season, partnering Hyam for the first half of the season, and mostly Teddy Bishop for the second half.

Skuse was partnered with Brentford signing Jonathan Douglas during the 2015–16 season. On 19 October, Skuse signed a new contract, keeping him at Ipswich until 2018 with a year's option. He made his 100th appearance with the club two-week's later against Cardiff. After a draw against Wolverhampton on 21 November, manager McCarthy spoke of Skuse as a "Premier League footballer". Skuse made 39 starts in the league that season, missing a month after sustaining a toe injury on 6 February against QPR. He wore the captain's armband from the start for the first time on 30 April, in a win over MK Dons. Ipswich finished the season in 7th, five points off the promotion play-offs.

Having missed the previous season's clash through injury, Skuse made his return to Ashton Gate on 3 December 2016 in a 2–0 defeat. Skuse made 40 starts in 2016–17, missing six games due to injury during the long Championship season. He also tallied four assists, matching his career high achieved with Bristol in 2012. Skuse began the season partnering Douglas in midfield, but spent most of the second half of the season alongside Cardiff City spring loanee Emyr Huws, with Grant Ward just in front of them.