[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Views on military action against Iran

support for military action against the Iranian regime categorizing the possible bombardment of nuclear facilities as a way to prevent Iran from proliferating a nuclear weapon.  He stated that he would support a "bombardment of some kind...if severe economic and diplomatic sanctions aren't enough".

In July 2009, former ambassador of the US to the United Nations John Bolton wrote an article for the Washington Post, in which he said that a military attack against Iran's weapons facilities was the only way to stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons, and that the logic for an Israeli strike was "nearly inexorable".  He also said that a decision to launch a strike should be launched urgently before it was too late.

Scholarly views in support of an attack
Bill Roggio, Senior Fellow and Editor of the Foundation for Defense of Democracy's (FDD) Long War Journal, said that "Numerous al-Qaeda leaders and operatives shelter inside Iran." Roggio also said that Saif al-Adel's ties to the Iranian regime and placement inside Iran could make him a "far more dangerous" al-Qaeda leader than his predecessor.

Charles Lister, Senior Fellow, Director of Syria and Countering Terrorism & Extremism Programs at the Middle East Institute, warned that "a catastrophic ISIS resurgence is just a matter of time."

On May 26, 2023, Jason Brodsky, Policy Director of the U.S.-based United Against Nuclear Iran (UANI), said, "[... The Ayatollah] is likely to enrich uranium to weapons-grade levels at 90%."

Matthew Kroenig, Stanton Nuclear Security Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, and Special Adviser in the Office of the Secretary of Defense from July 2010 to July 2011, argues that skeptics of military action fail to appreciate the threats posed by a nuclear Iran. If managed carefully, Kroenig believes that a surgical military strike targeting Iran's nuclear facilities "could spare the region and the world a very real threat and dramatically improve the long-term national security of the United States." A nuclear-armed Iran would not only limit U.S. leverage in the Middle East, but Iran's rivals like Saudi Arabia would probably seek nuclear weapons and subsequently spark an arms race. Once Iran had a nuclear device, Tehran could "choose to spur proliferation by transferring nuclear technology to its allies—other countries and terrorist groups alike" in order to contain its regional rivals. In the midst of a global economic downturn, Kroenig believes that containing a nuclear-armed Iran would be a massive financial, political, and military burden for the United States. A surgical strike would be less costly. Kroenig notes that airstrike skeptics are concerned that military planners will not know the location of some key facilities. Kroenig thinks this concern is overblown: "U.S. intelligence agencies, the IAEA, and opposition groups within Iran have provided timely warning of Tehran's nuclear activities in the past—exposing, for example, Iran's secret construction at Natanz and Qom before those facilities ever became operational." In other words, Kroenig believes there is a high chance of Washington catching Iran before the latter hypothetically brings a nuclear facility online. To mitigate the global economic fallout from a military strike, Washington could "offset any disruption of oil supplies by opening its Strategic Petroleum Reserve and quietly encouraging some Gulf states to increase their production in the run-up to the attack." He also believes the United States could manage war-time escalation levels by indicating to the Iranians that they are not interested in government change. Finally, Kroenig addresses the skeptics who claim that even if a surgical strike against Iran were successful, it would only delay Iran's nuclear program. Kroenig believes that if a surgical strike was successful, the devastation could be so significant that Iran would abandon its nuclear ambitions forever.

Opposition
The Prime Minister of Italy, Giorgia Meloni, is opposed to nuking the Ayatollah's underground nuclear facilities.

King Felipe VI, Queen Letizia & the Prime Minister of Spain, Pedro Sánchez, stand opposed to nuking the Ayatollah's underground military facilities.

The President & Prime Minister of Bulgaria also oppose nuking the Ayatollah's underground nuclear facilities.

Grassroots organizations
The organisation Campaign Against Sanctions and Military Intervention in Iran (CASMII) was officially founded on December 1, 2005, in London and claimed its first success to be the inclusion of opposition to an attack on Iran as part of the aims declared by the International Peace Conference in London on December 10, 2005. Two UK organisations opposed to an attack on Iran, Action Iran, and Iran Solidarity joined with CASMII UK on November 6, 2006, to form a new organisation in the UK called Campaign Iran, which remains part of the international CASMII.