[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Taxonomy of Banksia

eaked follicles and soft, short-lived leaves that are in many cases needle-like. The clade includes all eastern taxa of the series Salicinae and Spicigerae (that is, all taxa except B. serrata, B. aemula and B. ornata) and also the western Spicigerae, Quercinae, Grandes, Abietinae and Dryandroideae.

The /Cryptostomata were defined as those taxa in which the leaf stomata occur in crypts with constricted entrances. These are usually small shrubs that occur on dry, infertile sandplains. They have beaked follicles and thick, tough, long-lived serrated leaves. It includes all other western taxa, plus the eastern species B. serrata, B. aemula and B. ornata, and also appears to include Dryandra. It is worth noting that Dryandra does not appear especially closely related to the Isostylis group, which is instead most closely related to B. elegans and then B. attenuata.

Thus, the results presented by Mast et al. strongly suggest that Banksia is paraphyletic with respect to Dryandra. Although they did not propose a new taxonomic arrangement, they did consider various options for adjusting the current accepted arrangement to remove the paraphyly. They conclude that the simplest and least disruptive solution would be to merge Dryandra into Banksia. This solution was put into effect in a subsequent paper by Mast & Thiele.

The change has been adopted by a number of Australian herbaria including the Western Australian Herbarium, now headed by Thiele (this has the largest holdings of specimens), and by the Australian Plant Census, a project of the Council of Heads of Australasian Herbaria. This is in accordance with majority current taxonomic practice, in which only holophyletic groups are named as taxa, and groups found to be paraphyletic (e.g. Banksia not including Dryandra) are adjusted to achieve a holophyletic naming system. Alex George maintains a firm position against the change, arguing variously that the phylogenetic analyses are flawed and that paraphyly does not necessitate taxonomic changes.

See also 
 Cultivated plant taxonomy
 List of Banksia species

References