[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Harold Weston

The group won passage of the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965 creating the National Endowment for the Arts. Weston, "more than any other private individual played a key role in the improvement of our government's relation to the arts in our time," wrote Lloyd Goodrich.

Realism to abstraction
In the years after the completion of "Building the United Nations," Weston gradually transitioned into abstraction while maintaining a precisionist style. A 1958 trip to the Isle of Rhodes in Greece was pivotal in introducing ocean motifs. Increasingly, he magnified nature's details, heightening its patterns and rhythms. He was excited by the new direction of his work, for which he had more time after the passage of the National Endowment for the Arts legislation in 1965. He painted his last significant body of work, the "Stone Series," from 1968 until his death in 1972, inspired by stones found on the Gaspé Peninsula in Canada.

In 1971, Harold Weston published Freedom in the Wilds: A Saga of the Adirondacks, which is out of print, but a third, expanded edition was published in 2008 under the title Freedom in the Wilds: An Artist in the Adirondacks. Linking artistic creativity to wilderness conservation, Weston wrote: "The poet, composer, visual artist, and all those who are creative by instinct...can sense from a single fern frond, a leaf, a stone, or the song of a bird, the quintessence of the kind of freedom a wilderness tract can convey."

Harold Weston died on April 10, 1972, in New York City.

Major posthumous museum exhibitions of Weston's work have been held at the Philadelphia Art Alliance, the Adirondack Museum (now called the Adirondack Experience), and the Shelburne Museum. Galleries showing Weston work have included Gerald Peters Gallery, D. Wigmore Fine Art, and Salander-O'Reilly Galleries.

Honors
In appreciation of Weston's work on behalf of artists, he was elected an honorary member of the Society of American Graphic Artists (1964), the National Education Theater Association (1966), and the National Society of Mural Painters (1965). Weston received an award from the American Society of Contemporary Artists (1964), and in 1963 Weston was appointed a fellow of the World Academy of Art and Science for his humanitarian work during World War II. At the time there were 28 Nobel Prize winners and only two practicing artists: Yehudi Menuhin and Henry Moore. Believing there were not enough women in the academy, in 1970 Weston nominated Louise Nevelson to be a fellow.

References

Notes