[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Curtis Woodhouse

t Dean Marcantonio, despite not having any previous amateur experience. The former footballer had lost two stone in weight since his playing days with Grimsby Town. The fight was scheduled for four rounds of two minutes, Woodhouse knocked his opponent down twice in the final round and won on points.

Return to football part-time
After only one professional fight, Woodhouse returned to football in November 2006, signing for Rushden & Diamonds, who were playing in the Conference National, the highest-tier of non-league football. His boxing licence was suspended by the British Boxing Board of Control, following a conviction for assaulting a police officer whilst drunk and of using threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour in April 2006, when he was still playing for Grimsby Town, and not under the BBBofC's jurisdiction at the time of the incident. He was ordered to pay £100 compensation to PC Andrew Whitehead and £350 in costs. Woodhouse chose to play for Rushden & Diamonds to fulfil a promise he made to someone who was part of the consortium that took over the Irthlingborough based club. He made his debut against Aldershot Town on 25 November 2006, in a 1–0 defeat. He made five appearances in the Conference National for Rushden, before deciding to leave to concentrate on his boxing career.

He then returned to Rushden on 1 March 2007, and made a further 11 appearances in the Conference in the 2006–07 season, scoring three goals, including a 30-yard long range effort against Northwich Victoria on 23 April. After five months away from boxing, Woodhouse returned to the ring for his second fight on 15 April, defeating Duncan Cottier on points after four rounds. On 1 May, he signed a new two-year deal with Rushden & Diamonds. He then defeated Peter Dunn in a bout on 3 June, again on points, in a contest of four three-minute rounds. In his fourth fight on 5 December 2007, he defeated Craig Tomes by way of knock-out after just 1 minute and 57 seconds, landing a left hook that unsettled Tomes as the referee decided his opponent as unfit to continue. Matt Seawright was Woodhouse's next boxing opponent on 16 March 208, he defeated him after Seawright felt he was unable to continue after the third round. Woodhouse finished the 2007–08 football season having played in 29 Conference National matches, scoring once and receiving two red cards. On 17 May, Woodhouse achieved his sixth straight victory, maintaining his undefeated record against Dave Murray at Bramall Lane, defeating his opponent by knock-out in the second round. Murray managed to beat the standing eight count, but the referee deemed him unable to continue after 1 minute and 23 seconds.

After defeating Wayne Downing in 57 seconds on 21 June 2008, Woodhouse stated his intention to retire from football at the end of the 2008–09 season, to concentrate on his boxing career. He was later appointed as team captain for his final season at the club. Woodhouse scored a decisive penalty in Rushden's opening game of the 2008–09 season, away on 9 August, against newly promoted Eastbourne Borough. He was sent off again in the home game against Histon on 25 August, after receiving two yellow cards. In his eighth boxing match, Woodhouse defeated Jimmy Beech on points on 20 September. He then proceeded to defeat Peter Dunn on 30 November, stopping him 23 seconds in the sixth and final round at Thurcroft's Consort Hotel, Rotherham.

He signed for Mansfield Town on 5 January on a contract until the end of the 2008–09 season. Woodhouse made his debut for Mansfield Town on 24 January in a Conference National match against Lewes. Mansfield won 1–0. Matt Scriven was Woodhouse's next opponent in the ring on 29 March at Bramall Lane. The fight went the distance of six rounds and Woodhouse was given the decision over Scriven. His first professional loss as a boxer was on 25 April at Ulster Hall, in Belfast at the hands of Jay Morris. The fight went the distance, but Woodhouse lost 37–36 on points over six rounds. Mansfield manager David Holdsworth hoped Woodhouse would stay at the club, but on 18 June, he joined Conference North team Harrogate Town. On 27 November, he defeated Dean Hickman by TKO in round 6. This was Woodhouse's first fight in the light-welterweight division, having dropped down from welterweight.