[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Wolves and moose on Isle Royale

The single predator-single prey relationship between wolves and moose on Isle Royale in Lake Superior is unique, and has been the subject of detailed study for over 50 years. Isle Royale, the principal island of Isle Royale National Park in Michigan in the United States, is an isolated island with little migration of animals into and out of the island, and as a national park, human interaction and impact on the two species is also limited. Both the wolves and the moose first became established populations on Isle Royale in the 1900s. Over the fifty years of the study, the populations of both moose and wolves have shown repeated spikes and declines and have not settled to a balanced relationship. The moose populations have ranged from 500 to 2500 while the number of wolves has ranged from almost 50 to down to two. From 2018 to 2019, 19 wolves were released at Isle Royale in hopes of bringing stability to the ecosystem, and as of 2020, there are estimated to be 14 wolves remaining on the island.

The relationship between wolves and moose on Isle Royale has been the subject of the longest predator-prey research study, begun in 1958. The wolves have been subject to inbreeding and carry a spinal deformity. As of the 2014 count, there were only 9 wolves on the island, with the 2015–2017 counts showing only 2. A review completed in 2014 determined that new wolves would not be introduced into the park to attempt a genetic rescue, but as of December 2016, the National Park Service had instead decided to introduce 20 to 30 wolves to the island. In 2018, three females and one male wolf from Minnesota were transferred to the island system.

Isle Royale National Park is made up of about 400 islands, and is in the northwest portion of Lake Superior. It is about  from Michigan's shore, and  from the Canadian shore. The main island is about  long, and  wide at the widest point, with an area of . There are no roads, and no motorized vehicles are allowed on the island. The park is closed from September to May during which the wolf-moose study personnel are the only human residents on the island.

Wolf-moose dynamics interactions

As an isolated island, Isle Royale initially had neither wolves nor moose. The moose are believed to have either swum across Lake Superior from Minnesota in the early 1900s or were stocked on the island by man for the purpose of recreational hunting. In 1949 a few wolves, possibly only a single pair, crossed an ice bridge from Ontario to the island during a harsh winter. But because only one pair of wolves migrated to the island, they have suffered from severe inbreeding. According to Rolf Peterson, a professor at Michigan Technological University and the lead wolf-moose researcher, "Moose were isolated here 100 years ago. Most of the genes are still here, but they have enough population (to compensate). There are so few wolves that they have lost genetic variability. The scientific dogma suggests that they are not going to make it." In fact, all of the wolves' DNA on Isle Royale can be traced back to one ancestor. Inbreeding leads to inbreeding depression and fitness problems, often accompanied by violent social rejection by other wolves.

When the study began in 1958, many researchers believed the two species would eventually reach a population equilibrium of about 25 wolves and 1,500 moose; but there has been no sign of this, with populations fluctuating unpredictably. The highest number of moose observed since the arrival of wolves was 2,450 in 1995. The highest number of wolves observed was 50 in 1980 followed by a population crash to 14 by 1982. As of 2005, there were 540 moose, the lowest recorded, and a relatively high population of 30 wolves. In 2008, there were 700 moose and 23 wolves.

The density of the two species depends strongly on the density of forage. Moose prefer birch and aspen trees, which used to grow plentifully on the island, but over a century of moose browsing have been largely replaced by the less nutritious balsam fir, which now makes up 59% of a moose's diet. Even this has declined dramatically: as of 2002, understory growth of balsam fir was at 5%, down 40% from 19th century observations. The plant is more plentiful on the east side of the island, which draws a higher concentration of moose. Because balsam fir does not give sufficient moisture, moose have recently been spotted eating snow, a very rare occurrence. They have also been sighted eating lichen, which researcher Rolf Peterson has compared to eating dust. When the moose population grows too high, the balsam fir population crashes, leading to a crash in the moose population, in a continuing population "see-saw". Moose mostly die from the consequences of malnutrition: they become emaciated and slowed down by arthritis, until they are easy prey for a wolf pack. Also, calves suffer from malnutrition when they are born during a winter with snow too deep for easy foraging.