[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Academia Europaea

The Academia Europaea is a pan-European Academy of Humanities, Letters, Law, and Sciences.
The Academia was founded in 1988 as a functioning Europe-wide Academy that encompasses all fields of scholarly inquiry. It acts as co-ordinator of European interests in national research agencies.

History 
The concept of a 'European Academy of Sciences' was raised at a meeting in Paris of the European Ministers of Science in 1985. The initiative was taken by the Royal Society (United Kingdom) which resulted in a meeting in London in June 1986 of Arnold Burgen (United Kingdom), Hubert Curien (France), Umberto Colombo (Italy), David Magnusson (Sweden), Eugen Seibold (Germany) and Ruurd van Lieshout (the Netherlands) – who agreed to the need for a new body. The two key purposes of Academia Europaea are:
 express ideas and opinions of individual scientists from Europe
 act as co-ordinator of European interests in national research agencies

It does not aim to replace existing national academy from respective countries. The objectives were kept deliberately broad covering the humanities, social and natural sciences, so as to ensure interdisciplinary discourse and activities. Initial modalities were to include annual meetings of members, multidisciplinary meetings, an interdisciplinary journal, a newsletter, providing independent advice, improving mobility of scholars within Europe and improving public understanding of science.
The new body was named the Academia Europaea and its foundation meeting was held in Cambridge in September 1988 under the first President, Arnold Burgen. Hubert Curien, who was at that time the French Minister of Science (and later became the second President of the Academia), gave the inaugural address and provided the active support of the French government. The first Plenary Meeting was held in London in June 1989, by which time there were 627 members.
Since 1989, the Academia Europaea has evolved from its origins as an organization of predominantly "western European" scholars into a pan-European Academy of Sciences, Humanities and Letters. The funding of the Academy is based on an original endowment, contributions from some of the member countries, special projects and by other organizations like the Leopoldina who is also supporting the Academia Europaea financially.

Mission
The Academy is not a pure science or pure engineering academy. It is an academy that include a range of subjects, covering law, humanities, social sciences, physical sciences, religion, history, etc. Its mission is to:

Promote a wider appreciation of the value of European scholarship and research.
Make recommendations to national governments and international agencies concerning matters affecting science, scholarship and academic life in Europe.
Encourage interdisciplinary and international research in all areas of learning, particularly in relation to European issues.
Identify topics of trans-European importance to science and scholarship, and propose appropriate action to ensure that these issues are adequately studied.

The Academy endeavors to; (a) encourage the highest possible standards in scholarship, research and education, and (b) promote a better understanding among the public at large of the benefits of knowledge and learning, and of scientific and scholarly issues which affect society, its quality of life and its standards of living.

Presidents
Arnold Burgen (1988–1994)
Hubert Curien (1994–1997)
Stig Strömholm (1997–2002)
Jürgen Mittelstraß (2002–2008)
Lars Walløe (2008–2014)
Sierd Cloetingh (2014-2021)
Marja Makarow (since 2021)

Academic management
The scholarly interests of the Academia are managed through a section structure. On election, all members are assigned to a section. At the present time there are twenty academic sections covering
Applied and Translational Biology
Behavioural Sciences
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Cell Biology
Chemical Sciences
Classics & Oriental Studies
Earth and Cosmic Sciences
Economics, Business and Management Sciences
History & Archaeology
Informatics
Law
Linguistic Studies
Literary & Theatrical Studies
Mathematics
Musicology & History of Art & Architecture
Organismic and Evolutionary Biology
Philosophy, Theology & Religious Studies
Physics and Engineering Sciences
Physiology and Medicine
Social Sciences