[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paddy Crick

ome into an assemblage of gentlemen to make an explanation of his conduct". Crick's resignation was not treated as effective and he was expelled.

Crick repeated his accusations of corruption in his campaign speeches, and was re-elected in the resulting by-election, with a slightly increased margin.

At a meeting at the Lagoon, Major Butler asked "Is it true, Mr. Crick, that you stated that there was not a  virtuous woman in West Macquarie?" Crick alleged he then stated "I  was told so; and, more than that, I  believe that you did say so". Crick sued Butler for slander, however the jury found for Butler. The Full Court of the Supreme Court held that a question put bona fide by an elector in the course of an election meeting would not be slanderous. Further the charge was so improbable that Crick's reputation was not injured.

Ministerial positions
In August 1890 Crick was involved with William Nicholas Willis in founding the Truth newspaper, which was intended to promote their political and social views, but instead became largely a scandal sheet. He succeeded in having enacted a first offenders' probation bill in 1894. He was charged with conspiracy in 1895 in relation to the George Dean case, but managed to evade conviction. By the mid-1890s he was said to be one of the biggest betters on Sydney horse racing and lived in hotels near Randwick Racecourse.

Nevertheless, as a master parliamentary tactician, he had become a leading member of the Protectionist Party and having helped defeat the Free Trade government in 1899, was rewarded with the position of Postmaster-General in the Lyne government from 14 September 1899, a position he held until 28 February 1901.

Crick was Secretary for Lands from April 1901 to June 1904.  He was elected as member for Blayney on the abolition of West Macquarie in 1904. He expected to become Premier when John See resigned and See recommended him for the position but Governor Sir Harry Rawson refused to appoint Crick because of his excessive drinking in Executive Council meetings, and in due course asked Thomas Waddell to be Premier.

1906 expulsion
In 1905 Justice William Owen was appointed a Royal Commissioner to investigate the administration of the Lands Department. The Royal Commission handed down an interim report in May 1906, which found that Crick had overruled departmental advice on 35 occasions when granting leases to pastoralists in the Western Division, that 50% of the sums received by a land agent Peter Close were paid to Crick whilst he was Minister for Lands and that Crick was corrupt. The Legislative Assembly proposed to immediately deal with Crick, however the Speaker ruled that the Assembly could not deal with the matter as it might prejudice his criminal trial. Instead the assembly amended its standing orders and suspended Crick pending the outcome of his criminal trial. The jury was unable to reach a unanimous verdict. and the Attorney General declined to prosecute the matter again as evidence before the Royal Commission had been ruled inadmissible in his criminal trial. Crick then submitted his resignation from parliament, however before it was accepted the assembly passed a motion that he was guilty of conduct that rendered him ineligible to sit as a member. Rutledge and Nairn stated this was due to old scores being paid off, while Anne Twomey stated that this motion was passed to influence future voters not to vote for Crick. In any event Crick did not nominate for the by-election.

The Full Court of the Supreme Court found that the evidence before the Royal Commission showed that Crick was not a fit and proper person to be a solicitor and he was struck off the roll on 23 August 1907. He challenged the validity of his suspension in the Supreme Court and was successful before the Full Court, however this was overturned on appeal to the Privy Council which held that the Legislative Assembly was the sole judge whether an "occasion" had arisen that affected the orderly conduct of the Assembly.

Subsequent life and death
Crick stood for parliament again at the September 1907 election for Surry Hills but was unsuccessful.

Although he had reportedly been going to quit smoking and drinking in 1903, Crick suffered increasingly from cirrhosis of the liver and died of hematemesis at the Sydney suburb of Randwick. Crick was buried at Waverley Cemetery on 25 August 1908.

References

 

1862 births
1908 deaths
Members of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly
Australian journalists
Australian newspaper founders
20th-century Australian lawyers
Australian postmasters
Australian people of Irish descent
Australian Roman Catholics
Disbarred lawyers
Burials at Waverley Cemetery
19th-century Australian politicians
19th-century Australian newspaper publishers (people)