[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Genocyber

t happens to Genocyber afterward. It is implied through subsequent imagery that Elaine and Diana's consciousnesses still exist within Genocyber, although it is unknown if Genocyber is still alive or if Elaine (or Diana) can ever re manifest herself and return to normal as seen in the first two OVAs.

Diana: Elaine's older sister. She seems to have great power as well, but is almost nothing compared to her younger sister, as shown in part one of the OVA. Diana's body is completely artificial, except for her head, due to Kenneth Reed's harsh experiments on her, so that she could control Elaine and her Vajra energy. Diana is quite jealous of her sister's skills and abilities, which causes her to try to kill her sister several times, yet proves to be futile, though comes close where the two Kuryu cyborgs had Ellaine distracted by holding her young friend hostage. She merges with Elaine in the first OVA after being dismembered, with Elaine consciously controlling the body, and does not appear again until the third OVA. It is also noted that without mechanical parts, Diana is immobile.

Genocyber: The complete hybrid of the two sisters, Genocyber is the ultimate biological humanoid weapon (what its creator dubs a Vajra or Vajranoid) who is seemingly immortal and is nearly omnipotent. It is considered a god by the underground sect of the Grand Arc City. It fought with the Earth's forces for 100 years, but after the two sisters realized their mistake in existing in the world, they lay dormant underground. Its original appearance is a  green monster with two horns protruding from its head. It also has angel-like wings that appear to glow when it flies. Its second form is much larger, taller than a skyscraper, causing mass destruction within the City of the Grand Ark. Its full form is a dragon-like creature. Exactly how Genocyber was created from the bodies and souls of the two sisters remains a mystery, but it is somehow connected to the Vajra energies that both sisters possess.

Kenneth Reed: Claiming to be Elaine's and Diana's father, he both supports them to become a hybrid strong enough to prove the power of Vajra. He is near succession when Elaine suddenly escapes. He eventually dies after being taken custody of the two Kuryu cyborgs, smiling as he watches his creation bloom out in the world.

Myra: A female doctor who only appears in the second OVA, who takes care of Elaine after she is rescued by a civilian plane. Myra is very protective of Elaine, especially when people push her around for her unusual animal-like behavior. Myra eventually survives the carrier's destruction thanks to Genocyber's protection, and is later rescued by two Karain soldiers though her sanity is well and truly lost by that time.

Mel: A beautiful, mysterious young woman who is blind and needs money for the operation to cure her, and obtains money by fortune-telling with her amazing psychic abilities. She is very calm and timid, and deeply in love with her boyfriend, Ryu. When she takes refuge in the underground sect, they believe her to be a messenger from God. She is depressed at the moment because of Ryu's disappearance and her pregnant state. She eventually dies at one point in the third OVA, along with the entire underground sect, but then is brought back to life by Genocyber when she and the two sisters fuse together as she states in the hyperdimensional mandala scene, "I want this city destroyed." She is cured of her blindness at the end. There seems to be some connection between her and Diana, since they constantly communicate in Mel's dreams, whom Diana also calls "Big sister." It's possible that Elaine also feels the same way about Mel.

Ryu: A handsome young man who is Mel's boyfriend. He aids in helping Mel cure her blindness, but does not have enough money to do so. One day, he is to throw knives at a target to gain money. He was tricked into killing a man and is pursued by the city's government. He is eventually caught and put into custody. He is later shown unconscious at the end of the third OVA with Mel, who wakes up to find her dearest asleep.

Genichiro Kuryu: The chairman of Kuryu, he was first introduced in the series as a young boy controlling a giant company. In the second OVA, he sends an attack on the country Karain by making the overall decision. In the third OVA, Genichiro has become an old man, fighting for over 100 years with Genocyber, which was all to no avail. He himself states, "Who created you to give you so much power?" He later appears in a screen in an outer-space object, repeating a phrase, "destroy the target (Genocyber)" over and over again. The mysterious object was frozen by Genocyber itself and perhaps destroyed. He was likely the one to have sent the cyborgs in the first OVA to retrieve the sisters and Kenneth Reed when he feels that the professor was acting more on his own than to the standards of his company.