[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Iran–United Kingdom relations

of Hormuz. The Royal Navy frigate  positioned themselves between the boats and ship so that it could continue its journey.

On 14 July 2019, British Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said Grace 1 could be released if the UK received guarantees the oil — 2.1 million barrels worth — would not go to Syria.

On 19 July 2019, Iran media reported that the Swedish owned but British-flagged oil tanker Stena Impero had been seized by the Iranian Revolutionary Guard in the Strait of Hormuz. A first tanker, MV Mesdar, which was a Liberian-flagged vessel managed in the UK, jointly Algerian and Japanese owned, was boarded but later released. Iran stated that the British-flagged ship had collided with and damaged an Iranian vessel, and had ignored warnings by Iranian authorities. During the incident HMS Montrose was stationed too far away to offer timely assistance; when the Type 23 frigate arrived it was ten minutes too late. HMS Montrose was slated to be replaced by , however in light of events it was decided that both ships would subsequently be deployed together.

On 15 August 2019 Gibraltar released Grace 1 after stating that it had received assurances she would not go to Syria. The Iranian government later stated that it had issued no assurances that the oil would not be delivered to Syria and reasserted its intention to continue supplying oil to the Arab nation. On 26 August, Iranian government spokesman Ali Rabiei announced that the 2.1 million barrels of crude had been sold to an unnamed buyer, in either Kalamata, Greece or Mersin, Turkey. A US court issued a warrant of seizure against the tanker because it was convinced that the tanker was owned by the IRGC, which is deemed by Washington a foreign terrorist organization.

On 15 August 2019 the UK's new Boris Johnson-led government agreed to join the U.S. in its Persian Gulf maritime security Operation Sentinel, abandoning the idea of a European-led naval protection force.

On 4 September 2019 Iran released seven of the 23 crew members of the British-flagged oil tanker Stena Impero, which the Iranian forces had detained in August. The Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi stated that they have been released on humanitarian grounds. He said that their problem was the violation committed by the ship. On 23 September, the Iranian authorities announced that the British-flagged tanker Stena Impero, which they had captured on July 19 in the Strait of Hormuz, was free to leave. According to the government spokesperson Ali Rabiei informed that the legal process concluded and all the conditions to let the oil tanker go were also fulfilled. However, on September 24, it was reported that despite raising a green signal for the British tanker to leave the port, it remained in Iran waters. Swedish owner of Stena Impero, Erik Hanell said that they had no idea why the tanker was still there. On 27 September, the Stena Impero departed from Iranian waters and made its way to Port Rashid in Dubai. All of the remaining crew members who were still detained by Iran were released as well. The ship was also able to transmit location signals before arriving at Port Rashid, Dubai, after which the remaining crew members started undergoing medical checkups. The same day, HMS Duncan returned to Portsmouth.

Detention of British Nationals

Following the release of dual British-Iranian Nationals of Anoosheh Ashoori and Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe and furlough of tri-national Morad Tahbaz on 16 March 2022, Iran thenreturned Morad Tahbaz back to detention within two days. On 14 January 2023, Iran executed dual British-Iranian Alireza Akbari.

2023 sanctions on Iran 
In April 2023, the European Union, along with Britain, imposed sanctions on over 30 Iranian officials and organizations, including units of the revolutionary guards, due to their alleged involvement in human rights abuses during a crackdown on civil unrest. In response, Iran threatened sanctions of their own.

In July 2023 the UK government said it planned to sanction officials from Iran. The UK's foreign secretary said that since 2022 there had been "15 credible threats by Iran's regime to kill or kidnap Britons or UK-based people".

See also 
 Iranians in the United Kingdom
 1979 Iranian Revolution conspiracy theory
 2007 Iranian seizure of Royal Navy personnel
 Anglo-Russian Convention of 1907
 Anglo-Soviet invasion of Iran
 Foreign relations of Iran
 Foreign relations of the United Kingdom
 Imperial Bank of Persia, a British-owned bank established in 1889.
 2011–12 Strait of Hormuz dispute
 British School of Tehran
 Old fox, a term used by Iranians to describe Britain.
 Bushire Under British Occupation

References