[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Honda VTX Series

buretor that had been used on the VTX1300 engines was replaced with fuel injection (PGM-FI) for the VT1300C, and the new engines also received new cam profiles and a redesigned exhaust system. Exhaust emission controls included secondary air injection, the PGM-FI system and two catalytic converters.

The Fury's design went beyond the domain of traditional Honda cruisers and onto full-out chopper turf, having austere bodywork on a faux-hardtail frame with a high-mounted steering head and long fork tubes that made the rake angle conspicuous at 38 degrees, The caster angle being 32 degrees with 6 degrees added into the steering yokes, A wide rear tire was paired with a narrow front wheel, and the two were spanned by the longest wheelbase for any Honda production motorcycle. Honda also offered an extra-cost version of the Fury with CBS and ABS. There were only cosmetic changes to the VT1300CX (aka VT13CX) model in years 2011 through 2013, and the Fury remains in the Honda lineup for 2014.

While the Fury name was not used in all markets, Honda sold the VT1300CX internationally, including Australia, New Zealand, India, South Africa, the UK and Northern Ireland, as well as the UAE and the GCC states. Motorcycle Cruiser magazine named the Honda Fury as their "2010 Cruiser of the Year." In 2011, the Visordown website included the Fury in their list of "Top 7 cruisers with huge engines", despite the fact that the Honda's engine was the smallest of the lot.

Beyond the chopper-style Fury, the VT1300C line offered three conventional cruiser models for 2010, all of which remain in the lineup for 2014: Sabre, Interstate and Stateline. Honda previously used both the Interstate and Sabre names for other models, the most recent being the VT1100C2 Shadow Sabre.

In contrast to the Fury, the 2010 Sabre emphasized function over form with a less extreme seating position, narrower handlebar and lower steering head, making the VT1300CS (aka VT13CS) a fairly typical cruiser design, competing with other mid-size cruisers such as the Star Stryker. Front forks on the Sabre were shorter as a consequence of the lower steering head, and so they did not need the large-diameter tubes used on the Fury. The Sabre had slightly more travel in its rear mono-shock and a steel swingarm rather than aluminum, plus a larger fuel tank that incorporated an instrument panel. The VT1300CS wheelbase was about an inch shorter that the Fury's (but 4.5 inches longer than the old VTX1300C).

Of the three 2010 cruisers, The VT1300CR Stateline was the entry-level bike, by virtue of its lower price. It was also a more touring oriented bike, thanks to its wider seat, pull-back handlebars and larger, more valanced fenders. The Stateline used the same suspension and fuel tank as the Sabre. The VT1300CT Interstate used the same bodywork and running gear as the Stateline, but with additional amenities for touring, such as a windshield, saddlebags, floorboards for the rider and covers for the fork tubes. ABS was not available on the 2010 Interstate, the only model in the VT1300C line to not offer that option, however, Honda included the ABS option starting with the 2012 model year. The VT1300CT Interstate's competitors were other mid-size Baggers, such as the Yamaha V Star 1300 tourer and Suzuki Boulevard C90T touring cruiser.

See also 
 Honda Fury
 Honda Shadow
 Honda Valkyrie

Notes

References

External links

Honda motorcycles
Honda VTX series
Shaft drive motorcycles