[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Environmental direct action in the United Kingdom

ttended a protest called Reclaim Power against carbon emissions at the coal-fired Drax power station in Yorkshire. The protests were coordinated by the Camp for Climate Action, a ten-day camp held near the power station. The campers had also blockaded a nuclear power station in Hartlepool, Teesside.

At a later climate camp, undercover police officer Mark Kennedy encouraged activists to commit aggravated trespass at Ratcliffe-on-Soar Power Station and the trial of six people subsequently collapsed when this was revealed.

Actions carried out by the Plane Stupid group include the grounding of planes through the establishment of a climate camp on an airport taxiway and occupations of offices belonging to airport operator BAA and short-haul airline, EasyJet. On 8 December 2008, the group breached the perimeter of London Stansted Airport, causing a runway to be closed for three hours and the cancellation of 56 Ryanair flights. The protest was in response to the announcement that a second runway would be built at Stansted and there were 57 arrests.

Grow Heathrow is a land squat in Sipson, west London, on a site which might be demolished to build a new runway at Heathrow Airport. It was occupied in 2010 and partially evicted in 2019.  Frack Off was set up in 2011, one of a number of groups set up in response to concerns about the safety of fracking and other forms of shale gas extraction. Following on from these groups, Extinction Rebellion was set up on 31 October 2018, after a letter was published in The Guardian voicing concerns about the ecological crisis which was signed by 94 scientists.

A series of protests by the group Insulate Britain involving traffic obstruction began on 13 September 2021. The group Tyre Extinguishers deflated the tyres of sport utility vehicles (SUVs) in cities around the UK in March and April 2022. The Just Stop Oil coalition of climate activism groups disrupted oil terminals across England for 12 days in April 2022. Throughout 2022 and 2023, Just Stop Oil have continued to protest, disrupting events and slow marching.

High Speed 2 
High Speed 2 is a currently under construction high-speed railway network which will link London, Birmingham, Leeds and Manchester. According to the Woodland Trust, 108 sites of ancient woodland are under threat. The decision of the Department for Transport was that phase one, construction of a rail link from London to Birmingham, could begin on 15 April 2020. Four woodlands in Warwickshire were immediately destroyed, despite the recommended advice being to only carry out felling in autumn to minimise damage to flora and fauna. Environmental campaigners had already set up occupations along the route of the proposed train line. In January 2020, HS2 Limited began evicting a series of camps in the Colne Valley Regional Park which had been occupied since October 2017. Activists, including some connected to Extinction Rebellion and the Green Party had been monitoring the work on HS2 and contested the evictions, claiming that HS2 did not own the land. In May 2020, a squat in Harefield, west London was evicted.

See also 
 38 Degrees
 Civil disobedience
 Civil resistance
 Climate Rush
 Environmentalism
 Frack Off
 Friends of the Earth (EWNI)

References

Further reading 

Peter Styles (2012) Birds, Booze & Bulldozers

External links 
 Earth First! Action Reports 
 Rising Tide

Environment of the United Kingdom
Protests in the United Kingdom
Environmentalism in the United Kingdom
Environmental protests in the United Kingdom
Squatting in the United Kingdom
Radical environmentalism
Direct action