[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Lists of mountains and hills in the British Isles

valent of the Hewitts, but their author Alan Dawson regards those classifications as obsolete. Hewitts are a sub-class of the newer 2010 British Isles classification, the , or "metric Hewitt", with a  height threshold, and a  prominence threshold.  Dawson still maintains a list of Hewitts.

Nuttalls

The Nuttalls are mountains in England and Wales only that are over , and with a relative height of at least . There were 444 Nuttalls in the original list (254 in England and 190 in Wales), compiled by John and Anne Nuttall and published in 1989–90 in two volumes, The Mountains of England & Wales. After updates, the total of Nuttalls reached 446 in August 2018 with the inclusion of Miller Moss.

By including high points that rise by as little as  above their surroundings, the list of Nuttalls is sometimes criticised for including too many insignificant minor tops; the Hewitts (see above) are one attempt to avoid this. Some Nuttalls would not be considered peaks or mountains under UIAA definitions.

With the exception of Pillar Rock, a rocky outcrop on Pillar in the Lake District, the peaks of all of the Nuttalls can be reached without resort to rock climbing. , 302 people are recorded as having completed the list, though this includes some who did not climb Pillar Rock, which the authors permit. They have also announced that Tinside Rigg and Long Fell (added to the list in 2016) need not be summited as they are in a restricted area of Warcop Artillery Range.

England only

Wainwrights

The Wainwrights are mountains or hills (locally known as fells) in the English Lake District National Park that have a chapter in one of Alfred Wainwright's Pictorial Guides to the Lakeland Fells. There are 214 Wainwrights in the seven guides, and there are no qualifications for inclusion other than Wainwright's choice, although in the introduction he stated that he would include all summits over 1,000-feet in height, with a prominence above 50 feet. An exception was made for Castle Crag in Borrowdale, at ; Wainwright stated that although it was below his 1,000-feet criterion, it was a perfect mountain in miniature and demanded inclusion. A further 116 summits were included in the supplementary guide, The Outlying Fells of Lakeland, and are known as the Wainwright Outlying Fells.

Birketts

The Birketts are all the tops over  within the boundaries of the Lake District National Park. Height and location, but not prominence, are the criteria. The list was devised by Bill Birkett as the basis for his 1994 book Complete Lakeland Fells.  There are 541 of these tops, and they include 209 of the 214 Wainwrights, and 59 of the 116 Wainwright Outlying Fells.
  The five Wainwrights that are not Birketts are Armboth Fell, Baystones, Castle Crag (which, at , is Wainwright's only sub-1,000 ft summit), Graystones and Mungrisdale Common; Birketts are listed in the .

Synges
The Database of British and Irish Hills recognises as Synges the 647 Lake District summits in Tim Synge's The Lakeland Summits: Survey of the Fells of the Lake District National Park (1995). Two hills have been added to the original list: High Rigg in 2017 and Oakhowe Crag in 2020. The current list is available on the Hill Bagging website. There is no height or prominence threshold.

Ireland only

Vandeleur-Lynams
A Vandeleur-Lynam is the Irish equivalent of a Nuttall, except that the definition is fully metric with a height requirement of , and a prominence requirement of .  As with the Nuttalls, Vandeleur-Lynams do not meet the UIAA requirements for a "peak" or for a "mountain".  In 1952, Irish climber Joss Lynam made a list of 2,000 ft Irish summits with a 50 ft drop aided by Rev CRP Vandeleur.  Lynam updated his list, and published it in the book, Mountaineering in Ireland (1976) by Claude Wall, and later made a metric version published in 1997.  There are 275 Vandeleur-Lynams in Ireland.

Arderins

The Arderins are mountains in Ireland above , with a prominence over .  The list was drawn up in 2002 by the Irish MountainViews publisher Simon Stewart from an early listing of the Myrddyn Deweys with hills from the Vandeleur-Lynams which meet the higher prominence criterion. The name Arderins was first used in 2009, and comes from the  hill Arderin, which is the County Top for County Laois and County Offaly in Ireland, and translates as "Height of Ireland".  The Arderins were published in the 2013 book, "A Guide to Ireland's Mountain Summits: The Vandeleur-Lynams & the Arderins".  According to the MountainViews Online Database, Ireland has 407 Arderins, of which 207 are over 2,000 ft and classed as Hewitts, and the 222 are over 600 m and classed as Simms.

In addition, Mountainviews uses the term Arderin Begs for the additional class of peaks over  in height, and with a prominence between ; in 2018, Ireland had 124 Arderin Begs.