[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Civil Code of the Philippines

equences of real right. Ownership is independent and general right of the person to control a thing particularly in his possession, enjoyment, disposition, and recovery, subject to no restrictions except those imposed by the state or private persons, without prejudice to the provisions of the law. .

Classification of Property
Ownership
Co-Ownership
Special Properties
Possession
Usufruct
Easement and Servitudes
Nuissance
Registry of Property

Modes of acquiring ownership
Ownership is acquired by occupation and by intellectual creation. Ownership and other real rights over property are acquired and transmitted by law, by donation, by testate and intestate succession, and in consequence of certain contracts by tradition. They may be also acquired by acquisitive prescription.
Occupation
Intellectual creation
Donation
Succession
Acquisitive prescription

Obligations and contracts

Law of obligations is defined as juridical necessity to give, to do or not do. A contract is a meeting of the minds between two persons whereby one binds himself with respect to the other to give something or to render some service.

Obligations
Contracts
Special contracts encompasses several classes of contracts as trusts, sales, barter, lease, loan, deposit, aleatory contracts, compromises, guaranty, agency, pledges, mortgage, antichresis, and partnership
Quasi-contract
Quasi-delict

Torts and damages
Developments in torts and damages law in the Philippines are mostly guided by judicial precedents. However, the Civil Code does provide several pertinent provisions regarding quasi-delicts, as well as provisions on damages. Damages can be incurred when there is harm done and what may be recovered  arising from wrongful, unwrongful and tortuous act. Damages can be actual or compensatory, moral, nominal, temperate or moderate, liquidated and exemplary or corrective.

See also
 Philippine legal codes

Notes

References

External links
 Civil Code of the Philippines - from The Corpus Juris
 Family Code of the Philippines - from The Corpus Juris

Law of the Philippines
Philippine
Presidency of Elpidio Quirino