[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2011 World Netball Championships

tournaments (Barbados, Botswana, Malaysia, Samoa and Wales) were put into the groups in either the third or fourth position.

No more than two teams from the same region could have been drawn into the same group. Teams are listed with their IFNA ranking (as of 17 June 2011) in parentheses.

Players

Format
The 2011 tournament comprised 48 matches played over eight days from 3–10 July. The 16 participating teams were initially divided into four pools of four teams. During the preliminary pool stage, teams in each pool played each other once. In every pool match, two points were awarded to a winning team, while no points are given to a losing team.

At the end of the preliminary matches, the two teams with the highest number of points in each pool progressed to the finals, ultimately contesting the 1st–8th final placings. The remaining two teams from each pool entered classification matches, which determined the 9th–16th final placings.

Eight teams contested the finals matches, each playing one quarter-final and one semi-final. The four teams that won their quarter-finals contested the medal matches. Of these four teams, the two semi-final winners advanced to the gold medal match, while the other two teams played for bronze. The medal matches were scheduled for the last day of the tournament, on 10 July.

Preliminary matches

Pool A

 Highlighted teams advanced to the quarter-finals. Remaining teams will contest classification matches.

Pool B

 Highlighted teams advanced to the quarter-finals. Remaining teams will contest classification matches.

Pool C

 Highlighted teams advanced to the quarter-finals. Remaining teams will contest classification matches.

Pool D

 Highlighted teams advanced to the quarter-finals. Remaining teams will contest classification matches.

Classification matches

Round 1

Round 2

Playoffs 9–16

Finals matches

Following the pool play, Australia, Northern Ireland, New Zealand, Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, South Africa, England and Malawi advanced to the quarter-finals. England overwhelmed Northern Ireland to meet New Zealand, who beat South Africa, in one semi-final. Australia had a hard-fought victory over Malawi to meet Jamaica, who defeated the other Caribbean contender Trinidad and Tobago, in the other semi. New Zealand (49–34) and Australia (82–46) won their semi-finals leaving England and Jamaica to contest the bronze medal match, which England won 70–49.

The final between the Antipodean rivals was locked at 46 all after the regulation 60 minutes of playing time. New Zealand had dominated the first two quarters to open up a six-goal lead. Australia whittled the lead down and with a minute left New Zealand led by one, just needing to retain possession to win. However, Australia stole the ball and levelled the scores, and would have won had their next shot in the last play been successful. With the scores tied at the end of regulation time, two seven-minute periods of extra time were played. It was still even after the first half of extra time, with Australia eventually winning 58–57 in the dying seconds of extra time to claim their tenth World Championship title.

Quarter-finals

Semi-finals

Semi-finals 5–8

7th place match

5th place match

Bronze medal match

Gold medal match

Final standings

Medallists

References

External links

 2011 World Netball Championships home page

 
2011
2011 in netball
2011 in Singaporean women's sport
International netball competitions hosted by Singapore
July 2011 sports events in Asia