[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Isaac Osbourne

ment the most important thing for me is that I get fit and play again." At the end of the 2010–11 season, Osbourne was released by Coventry City after he wasn't offered a new contract by the club.

Crewe Alexandra (loan)
On 22 October 2006, Osbourne was loaned out to League One side Crewe Alexandra,

He made his debut for the club two days later on 25 October 2006, playing 120 minutes, in their League Cup game against Manchester United. Manager Micky Adams said: "Going to Crewe will be the best thing that has ever happened to Isaac. The facts are that he's a very young man with little or no future ahead of him if he stays where he is." Having made two more appearances for the club, Osbourne was subsequently recalled by Coventry City.

Aberdeen
After being released by Coventry City, Osbourne went on trial at Scottish Premier League side Aberdeen. The day after his trial was announced, the club says they confirmed their interests signing the player. The following month, he went on another trial at the Dons to earn a contract.

On 30 June 2011, Osbourne signed a one-year contract with Aberdeen, following a trials. Upon joining the club, he said Aberdeen has helped his career by overcoming his injury and credited Craig Brown for reviving his career. Osbourne made his debut for the club, starting the whole game, in a 0–0 draw against St Johnstone in the opening game of the season. After making his Aberdeen debut, he expressed his delight and describe his debut as a "dream". Since making his debut for Aberdeen, he quickly made an immediate impact, having established himself in the first team, leading Manager Brown revealed that the club has begun a contract negotiations to tie up the player a new deal. However, Osbourne suffered a hamstring injury during a match against Forfar Athletic in the fourth round in the Scottish Cup and was substituted in the first half, as Aberdeen won 4–0. After the match, he needed to have a knee operation and was sidelined for four months. While on the sidelines, Osbourne signed a one-year contract extension with Aberdeen, keeping him until 2013. It wasn't until on 12 May 2012 when he made his return to the first team, coming on as a substitute for Kári Árnason in the 75th minute, as the club drew 0–0 with St Mirren. At the end of the 2011–12 season, Osbourne went on to make twenty–six appearances in all competitions.

At the start of the 2012–13 season, Osbourne started the season strongly when he scored his first goal in 176 competitive appearances, for Aberdeen against St Johnstone in Perth. He continued to regain his first team place, playing in the midfield position. In November, during a match against Hibs on 24 November 2012, Osbourne suffered another hamstring injury that cause him to be out for two months. In early January, he soon made a recovery from injury and return to full training. Osbourne made his return to the first team, coming on as a 65th-minute substitute, in a 3–0 loss against Inverness CT on 19 January 2013. He then played three times in a centre–back position in the club's next four matches. However, during a 1–0 win against Dundee on 15 February 2013, he suffered a hamstring injury once again and was sidelined for six weeks. It wasn't until on 27 April 2013 when Osbourne returned to the starting line–up in a centre–back position against Kilmarnock and kept a clean sheet, in a 1–0 win. He, once again, played in the centre–back position for the next two matches against Dundee and St. Mirren. At the end of the 2012–13 season, Osbourne went on to make twenty–seven appearances in all competitions.

It was announced on 13 May 2013 that his contract along with another six players would not be extended by Aberdeen. He previously spoke out about his contract, saying his career in Aberdeen is in doubt over his personal issues, with his contract expected to expire in the summer.

Partick Thistle
On 31 July 2013, Partick Thistle announced that they have brought in Osbourne from Aberdeen on a free transfer.

Having appeared in the first three matches of the season as an unused substitute, he made his debut for the club, starting a match and played 79 minutes, in a 1–0 loss against Motherwell on 24 August 2013. Since joining Partick Thistle, Osbourne quickly became a first team regular, playing in the midfield position. However, he suffered a knee injury in an abandoned match against St Johnstone at Firhill in late 2013. After the match, Osbourne underwent surgery and the injury left him unavailable for the remainder of the 2013/14 season. After making thirteen appearances in his first season, Osbourne said he might want to continue on at the club. Following this statement, Osbourne continued to recover from his knee injury, while dealing with the ongoing negotiations with Partick Thistle.

St Mirren
Osbourne signed a one-year contract with Scottish Premiership side, St Mirren on 21 August 2014.