[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Critical reaction to 24

ulls Jack away from the CTU office, which is where most of the season's problems reside. Sackhoff has been saddled with a particularly weak plot and character. (Outside of Jones' president, must 24s women be so unhinged?) And Williamson's ridiculously obstructionist CTU boss is an eye-rolling drag."

The series finale was met with mixed reviews, with Los Angeles Times reviewer Mary MacNamara mentioning that "24 managed to do what so many shows try and fail to do: Go out with not just a bang but its original convictions intact. Jack Bauer remains, to borrow the words of the immortal Harper Lee, one of those men born to do our unpleasant jobs for us." Mary MacNamara also characterized the series as "an epic poem, with Jack Bauer in the role of Odysseus or Beowulf. Which means he needed to be fighting monsters, not essentially decent people who have made one very bad decision. And Logan was a terrific monster, the physical incarnation of all that Jack and 24 fought against for so long: political corruption and cowardice, narcissism and megalomania, ruthlessness and stupidity. Itzin, with his elastic, shape-shifting face and eyes so incandescently blue they appeared to be CGI'ed, made Logan a politician so murderously self-involved and loathsomely ambitious that the final episodes of the final season really did come down to a fight between good and evil."

BuddyTv.com called the finale a "dud". The reviewer, John Kucibek, mentioned that "when I think back on the series in the future, I probably won't even remember the ending.  I'll remember Jack Bauer kicking ass and getting the job done, I'll remember the great presidents, from the noble David Palmer to the evil Charles Logan.  I'll remember fallen CTU personnel like Tony Almeida, Ryan Chappelle, George Mason and Edgar Stiles.  I'll remember the moles, the deaths, the torture, the terrorists and even Kim and the cougar. I'll remember the legacy of 24 as an action drama that redefined what serialized television can do and provided many shocking twists and turns along the way—the biggest one being the very real impact the show had on American foreign policy."

The New York Times said after the finale that "24 will live on, possibly as a feature film, and surely in classrooms and in textbooks. The series enlivened the country's political discourse in a way few others have, partly because it brought to life the ticking time-bomb threat that haunted the Cheney faction of the American government in the years after 9/11."

24: Live Another Day

24: Live Another Day has received highly positive reviews. It currently holds an 84% "Fresh" rating with an average score of 7.4/10 on review aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes. Its synopsis cites this rating as a result of "strong action sequences" however it does criticize the season for its "familiarity and sameness". 24: Live Another Day has also received positive critical reception on Metacritic, with a Metascore of 70, signifying "generally favourable reviews".

Accolades