[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Operation Packer

Operation Packer was a military operation by the South African Defence Force (SADF) during the South African Border War and Angolan Civil War from March to April 1988. This operation forms part of what became known as the Battle of Cuito Cuanavale. Operation Packer was a continuation of Operation Hooper, using fresh troops and equipment. The Cubans' objective was still to secure the town of Cuito Cuanavale to the west of the river from capture. The SADF objective was once again to eliminate the remaining Angolan forces on the east side of the river, so as to ensure that the Angolans were no longer a threat to UNITA in the south-east. Although at the conclusion some Angolan units remained in positions east of the river, the Angolan advance against UNITA was permanently halted, and UNITA lived to fight on. The SADF never attempted to cross the river or to capture the town. Both sides again claimed victory.

Background
On the 29 February 1988, the SADF and UNITA launched a fourth attack on the 25 Brigade in Tumpo triangle and the vital Cuito River Bridge. This attack would last until the evening of the 1 March.  Due to problems with the clearing of the minefields in front of 25 Brigades positions, Cuban artillery and the mechanical failure of several SADF Ratels and Olifant tanks, the SADF could not reach the forward positions on schedule. The Cuban defense plan had worked and the SADF withdrew. By the 3 March, the SADF 20 Brigade, began its planned demobilisation and so ended Operation Hooper. 82 Mechanised Brigade replaced the previous force and consisted mainly of Citizen (reservists) and Permanent Force soldiers.

The battle would take place on the 23 March with a diversionary attack from the south and the main attack of infantry, armour and UNITA from the north.

Objectives
The plan called for:
the destruction of the FAPLA Brigade,
the demolition of the bridge over the Cuito River to the town of Cuito Cuanavale. 
UNITA would then occupy the old 25 Brigade positions and the SADF would then withdraw.

Defence strategy
The Cubans and FAPLA strengthened the minefields in front of the 25 Brigade and positioned artillery on both sides of the river banks to cover the potential attack routes the SADF might use for their eventual return. 13 Brigade and Cuban soldiers were based on the western side of the Cuito River to guard the town of Cuito Cuanavale.

Order of battle

South African and South West Africa Territorial Forces

82 Mechanised Brigade - Colonel Paul Fouche
 two Ratel-20 mechanized battalions - Regiment Groot Karoo & Regiment de la Rey
 two Olifant tank squadrons - Regiment President Steyn
 one Ratel-90 anti-tank squadron - Regiment Mooirivier
 one G5 battery - Regiment Potchefstroom University
 one G2 battery - Regiment Potchefstroom University
 one 120mm mortar battery - 44 Parachute Brigade
 one MRL battery - 19 Rocket Regiment
 AA, engineer and reconnaissance (4 Reconnaissance Regiment) platoons
 three companies - 32 Battalion - Major Tinus van Staden

UNITA
 3rd Battalion
 4th Battalion
 5th Battalion
 two semi-regular battalions

FAPLA/Cuban forces
 25th Brigade
 13th Brigade
 36th Brigade (one battalion)
 29 tanks and numerous artillery units

Battle
After the SADF completed the last attack of Operation Hooper on 1 March, FAPLA and Cuban forces began aggressive patrols around 5 March into the minefields and land in front of their positions in the Tumpo triangle. This brought them into contact with UNITA forces patrolling the disputed land. On 9 March, Cuban MiGs bombed SADF supply lines around the Lomba River. This was the route the SADF used to move their supplies from Mavinga to their positions east of the Chambinga high ground.
In preparation for the main attack on the 25 Brigade, UNITA forces attacked and chased the FAPLA elements of 36 Brigade from the high ground north of the Tumpo triangle, between the Cuito and Cuanavale rivers.  The positions on the high ground were taken over by 20 March, establishing forward observers for the SADF artillery. Members of 4 Recce infiltrated the west bank of Cuito with the aim of identifying targets for the SADF artillery batteries. The South African artillery engaged many targets before the main battle and the Cuban artillery countered but were not as successful at hitting targets. On 18 March, two portable ferries used to cross the Cuito River were destroyed by the SADF artillery. From 21 to the 22 March, UNITA conducted numerous hit-and-run attacks on FAPLA/Cuban positions around Cuito Cuanavale to confuse and keep them occupied.