[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Roeliff Brinkerhoff

o have the sitting Ambassador Hugh Ewing replaced with his brother Charles Ewing, and there is no evidence that Blaine ever actually presented Brinkerhoff's name to the President, although both Senator John Sherman and General and Congressman John Beatty claim that Blaine had promised them to do so.

He showcased his compassion and liberal idealism when he traded on his political connections to abolish the use of mechanical restraints in treatments of the insane. Although his work was initially deemed "Brinkerhoff's Folly" by the press, his work led to the Toledo hospital system becoming the model asylum in the United States. He was selected as a member of the commission which selected the plans for its construction. He was one of the earliest American advocates of the cottage system, and understood that public opinion demanded reform and advancement.

In 1875, Brinkerhoff founded the Ohio State Archaeological and Historical Society at his home, whose first president was Senator Allen G. Thurman, followed by Rutherford B. Hayes, and later himself Brinkerhoff upon Hayes' death. He was soon named President Emeritus of the organization which exists to this day.

Through the society he was able to secure legislation and funding for the Ohio Monument at Jefferson Park, in Chicago. In a speech delivered before the legislature, he stated that:

When the Ohio monument was dedicated at Jefferson Park, in Chicago, September 14, 1893, General Brinkerhoff delivered one of the principal addresses.

See also

List of American Civil War brevet generals (Union)

Notes

References

 Brinkerhoff, Roeliff. Recollections of a lifetime. Ohio: The Robert Clarke Company. 1900.

Bibliography 
 Randall, Emilius Oviatt (1850-1919): General Roeliff Brinkerhoff and General Brinkerhoff, Ohio Archæological and Historical Society Publications: Volume 20 [1911], pp. 353–367, 466–467.

1828 births
1911 deaths
Union Army generals
Quartermasters
People of Ohio in the American Civil War
Historians of the United States
19th-century American historians
19th-century American male writers
Logistics personnel of the United States military
People from Mansfield, Ohio
Ohio Free Soilers
Ohio Democrats
Ohio Republicans
Ohio Liberal Republicans
Activists from Ohio
American male non-fiction writers
Historians from Ohio
Jeffersonian democracy