[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# ISO 26000

ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on social responsibility is an international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility (SR, often CSR - corporate social responsibility). It was released by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) on 1 November 2010 and its goal is to contribute to global sustainable development by encouraging business and other organizations to practice social responsibility to improve their impacts on their workers, their natural environments and their communities.

An organization's relationship with the society and the environment in which it operates is a critical factor in its ability to continue operating effectively. This standard is used as a measure for an organization's performance as it provides guidance on how it should operate in socially responsible way.

Structure
The structure of ISO 26000 is as follows:
Scope
Terms and definitions
Understanding social responsibility
Principles of social responsibility
Recognizing social responsibility and engaging stakeholders
Guidance on social responsibility core subjects
Guidance on integrating social responsibility throughout an organization.

Development
This standard was developed by ISO/TMBG Technical Management Board - groups. ISO chose the Swedish Standards Institute (SIS) and  the Brazilian Association of Technical Standards (ABNT) to provide the joint leadership of the ISO Working Group on Social Responsibility (WG SR). The WG SR was given the task of drafting an International Standard for social responsibility that was published in 2010 as ISO 26000. The 2010 version was reviewed and confirmed by ISO in 2021 and remains current.

Voluntary Guidance Standard for All Organizations
ISO 26000 offers guidance on socially responsible behavior and possible actions. There are three ways in which it is different from the more widespread standards designed for companies to use to meet particular requirements for activities such as manufacturing, managing, accounting and reporting: 
ISO 26000 is a voluntary guidance standard: it does not contain requirements such as those used when a standard is offered for "certification". There is a certain learning curve associated with using ISO 26000, because there is no specific external reward - certification - explicitly tied to ISO 26000. ISO recommends that users say, for example, that they have "used ISO 26000 as a guide to integrate social responsibility into our values and practices".
ISO 26000 is designed for use by all organizations, not only businesses and corporations. Organizations such as hospitals and schools, charities (not-for-profits), etc. are also included. ISO 26000 makes particular efforts to show that its flexibility means that it can be applied by small businesses and other groups as well  So far, many of the earliest users of ISO 26000 have been multi-national corporations, especially those based in Europe, and East Asia, particularly Japan.
ISO 26000 was developed through a multi-stakeholder process, meeting in eight Working Group Plenary Sessions between 2005 and 2010, with additional committee meetings and consultations on e-mail throughout the five-year process. Approximately five hundred delegates participated in this process, drawn from six stakeholder groups: Industry, Government, NGO (non-governmental organization), Labour, Consumer, and SSRO (Service, Support, Research and Others - primarily academics and consultants). Leadership of various task groups and committees was "twinned" between "developing" and "developed" countries, to ensure viewpoints from different economic and cultural contexts. Since ISO operates on a parliamentary procedure form based on consensus, the final agreed-on standard was the result of deliberation and negotiations; no one group was able to block it, but also no one group was able to achieve its objectives when others strongly disagreed. The goal was to make ISO 26000 accessible and usable by all organizations, in different countries, precisely because it reflects the goals and concerns of each and all of the stakeholder groups in its final compromise form.

Key Principles and Core Subjects of ISO 26000
The Seven Key Principles, advocated as the roots of socially responsible behavior, are:
 Accountability
 Transparency
 Ethical behavior
 Respect for stakeholder interests (stakeholders are individuals or groups who are affected by, or have the ability to impact, the organization's actions)
 Respect for the rule of law
 Respect for international norms of behavior
 Respect for human rights

The Seven Core Subjects, which every user of ISO 26000 should consider, are: 
 Organizational governance
 Human rights
 Labor practices
 Environment
 Fair operating practices
 Consumer issues
 Community involvement and development