[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# StarCraft in esports

Kal (Goojila) in the 2010 World Cyber Games, eventually becoming the world champion. He also came back in 2017 and won the ASL season 2, defeating sea in a series of 3–1. He had to beat Jaedong in the semi-finals and it went to the 5th game, which he eventually won 3–2.

Zerg

 Hong Jin-ho (YellOw) 

Hong Jin Ho known as "Storm Zerg" was an early rival to Lim Yo-Hwan (Boxer), losing several Starleague finals to him. Hong is known for his aggressive and harassing style of play, and for his rivalry with BoxeR. Hong never won first place in major StarCraft tournaments despite his strong performance. Hong managed to finish second place six times in the events, never once attaining a major championship, which earned him the title "King of Silver." While there are some tournaments in which he finished first, these records was invalidated when the KeSPA announced to accept only OSL and MSL records. His notable victories include first place in the 2003 ITV 5th Starleague, the Snickers All-Star league in 2005 and the first BlizzCon invitational tournament.

Hong suffered his last major defeat against Han "Casy" Dong-wook in the semi-finals of the Shinhan Bank Season 1 OSL in 2006, and claimed 3rd place. Due to poor performance in the following OSL, Hong had fallen into a slump from which he has not recovered. Hong reached the round of 32 in the GOMTV Averatech Classic, but was eliminated by oDin (Joo Young-Dal). He is now in the Korean Air Force since November 2008, and has enlisted in the StarCraft team Air Force ACE. After being a member of KAF ACE, Hong is recovering his form. The trigger was an old-fashioned 'storm-like' victory against Bisu[Shield] on 20 June 2009 in Shinhan Bank ProLeague 08–09, after 735 days of silence. He could not qualify for either OSL nor MSL since Shinhan Bank OSL season 2 in 2006, but in the end of Shinhan Bank ProLeague 09–10 season, Hong ended the season securing a 3-game winning streak, including a dramatic victory against Jaedong.

Hong announced his retirement from professional gaming on his website on 16 June 2011. At his retirement ceremony, BoxeR jokingly handed him an empty StarCraft 2 box. BoxeR said that the box was empty, but the account was at the Slayers clan house and if Hong ever considered transitioning into StarCraft 2, he knew where to go. As of August 2011 he is appearing in a reality series entitled "Project A" on GOMtv. The series follows Hong as he attempts to qualify for the GOMTV Global StarCraft II League and relaunch his progaming career in StarCraft 2. The series premiered on 12 August 2011

 Ma Jae-Yoon (sAviOr[gm]) 

sAviOr (previously known as IPXZerg) has won three MSLs and one OSL, and reached five consecutive MSL finals during the height of his dominance. Nicknamed "Maestro" for his play, timing, and game sense, he is viewed as a strong Zerg, having defeated BoxeR, iloveoov, NaDa, Midas, Nal_rA and many other top players. He is well known for his perfect defiler usage, particularly in the ZvT matchup.  sAviOr made the semifinals of the 2007 September–November GOM TV MSL but was surprisingly eliminated by Terran player Mind 2–3. Soon after, he was eliminated 1–2 by Bisu in the 2007 Ever OSL quarterfinals. sAviOr is currently in a competitive slump, having been eliminated from the first round of both the most recent OSL and MSL. However, he has since qualified for the next upcoming MSL and is currently ranked 53rd in the February 2010 KeSPA ranking. On 13 April 2010, he was implicated in a cheating scandal involving several Korean pro gamers, illegal betting websites, and allegations of games being deliberately lost. As the investigation continued, Savior admitted his guilt on 20 May, and was forced into retirement by KeSPA.

 Lee Jae-Dong (n.Die_Jaedong) 

Known as the "Lord of Destruction", and the "Tyrant", Jaedong was Team 8's ace player. He took down many top players when he first entered the scene, earning the nickname "Legend Killer". He is known for his intense and focused demeanor during play and his tendency to excel under pressure. He is known for his micro of mutalisks, his trademark unit. His ZvT and ZvZ are among the best in the progaming scene, and he is regarded as the best Zerg player, if not the best player overall. He walked the Royal Road by qualifying for the OSL for the first time and defeating Stork in the EVER OSL finals 3–1. Soon thereafter, he proved that his ZvP matchup was strong by defeating Bisu in the GOMTV MSL S4 group stages. Since his OSL win, Jaedong's ZvP has statistically been his second strongest matchup (71.25%) Jaedong has also won the MSL season 4 by defeating Siz) Kal 3–1 in March 2008, further proving himself as the top Zerg on the scene.  Jaedong set a new record for the highest ZvZ streak by winning 12 games straight, only losing to Oversky in the Proleague.