[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Constructive set theory

the characteristic function actually deciding membership in some set  so that

and then by convention  and  as well as any equivalent of the formulas  and  with  free may be referred to as a decidable property or set on . One may call a collection  searchable for  if existence is actually decidable,

Now consider the case . If , say, then the range  of  is an inhabited, counted set, by Replacement. However, the  need not be again a decidable set itself, since the claim  is equivalent to the rather strong . Moreover,  is also equivalent to  and so one can state undecidable propositions about  also when membership in  is decidable.
This also plays out like this classically in the sense that statements about  may be independent, but any classical theory then nonetheless claims the joint proposition . Consider the set  of all indices of proofs of an inconsistency of the theory at hand, in which case the universally closed statement  is a consistency claim. In terms of arithmetic principles, assuming decidability of this would be - or arithmetic -. This and the stronger related , or arithmetic -, is discussed below.

Computable sets 
Going back to more generality, given a general predicate  on the numbers (say one defined from Kleene's T predicate), let again

Given any natural , then

In classical set theory,  by  and so excluded middle also holds for subclass membership. If the class  has no numerical bound, then successively going through the natural numbers , and thus "listing" all numbers in  by simply skipping those with , classically always constitutes an increasing surjective sequence . There, one can obtain a bijective function. In this way, the class of functions in typical classical set theories is provenly rich, as it also contains objects that are beyond what we know to be effectively computable, or programmatically listable in praxis.

In computability theory, the computable sets are ranges of non-decreasing total functions in the recursive sense, at the level  of the arithmetical hierarchy, and not higher. Deciding a predicate at that level amounts to solving the task of eventually finding a certificate that either validates or rejects membership.
As not every predicate  is computably decidable, also the theory  alone will not claim (prove) that all unbounded  are the range of some bijective function with domain . See also Kripke's schema.
Note that bounded Separation nonetheless proves the more complicated arithmetical predicates to still constitute sets, the next level being the computably enumerable ones at .

There is a large corpus of computability theory notions regarding how general subsets of naturals relate to one another. For example, one way to establish a bijection of two such sets is by relating them through a computable isomorphism, which is a computable permutation of all the naturals. The latter may in turn be established by a pair of particular injections in opposing directions.

Boundedness criteria 
Any subset  injects into . If  is decidable and inhabited with , the sequence

i.e.

is surjective onto , making it a counted set. That function also has the property .

Now consider a countable, bounded set . With  as above, it follows that

A set  such that this loose bounding statement holds for all sequences taking values in  (or an equivalent formulation of this property) is called pseudo-bounded. The intention of this property would be to still capture that  is eventually exhausted, albeit now this is expressed in terms of the function space  (which is bigger than  in the sense that  always injects into ). The related notion familiar from topological vector space theory is formulated in terms of ratios going to zero for all sequences ( in the above notation). For a decidable, inhabited set, validity of pseudo-boundedness, together with the counting sequence defined above, grants a bound for all the elements of .

The principle that any inhabited, pseudo-bounded subset of  that is just countable (but not necessarily decidable) is always also bounded is called -. The principle also holds generally in many constructive frameworks, such as the Markovian base theory , which is a theory postulating exclusively lawlike sequences with nice number search termination properties. However, - is independent of .

Choice functions 
Not even classical  proves each union of a countable set of two-element sets to be countable again. Indeed, models of  have been defined that negate the countability of such a countable union of pairs. Assuming countable choice rules out that model as an interpretation of the resulting theory. This principle is independent of  - A naive proof strategy for that statement fails at the accounting of infinitely many existential instantiations.