[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Malvan

urist destination for water sports where one can enjoy rides like Jet-Ski, Banana boat ride, Bumper boat, Kayaks, etc. Best time to visit tsunami island for water sports is during high tide when the small island is partially submerged under the water (till knee length).
booking - www.malvanbeach.com

Tourist attractions 
booking - www.malvanbeach.com
Malvan has emerged as one of the major tourist attraction places in Maharashtra in recent years. Its clean beaches, historical monuments, tasty food/sea food options, various affordable water sports are attracting tourists like magnet. 
There are many guest house options available in Malvan for stay. Oct to May is the best time to visit. Tourists are advised to book the stay in advance in case planning to visit in months of Apr to May and Nov to Dec; there is large influx of tourists during these months.
 Sindhudurg - A sea fort surrounded by sea water from all sides. Only way to reach the fort is by boat. This Sindhudurg (meaning Ocean Fort), was built in 1664 by the 17th century Maratha king, Shivaji on "Kurte" island to the glory of the Maratha Empire.
 Sahyadrivasi - A campground surrounded by sahyadri from all the sides.also the best place for bird watching.
 Tarkarli - A beach located 8 km off Malvan town.
Malvan Beach - Main tourist attraction 0.5 km from Malvan

 
 Nath Pai Sevangan Malvan NGO - Near Chivala beach malvan
 Chivala Beach  Dhuriwada Malvan spc. GOA2
 Rock Garden - The Rock garden is situated near the Arase Mahal and on the Rocky Shore of Malvan.
 Jai Ganesh Mandir
 Arse Mahal Beach
 Tondavali Beach (19 km North of Malvan)
 Achara Beach (22 km north of Malvan)- This is the clearest beach 
 Bhogwe Beach: This beach is on the shores of Sindhudurg district. It is very close to Tarkarli Beach. Nearest city is Kudal or Kankavali, which is well connected with Mumbai Goa highway. 
 Rameshwar Temple (23 km north of Malvan). Temple located Kandalgaon,
 Waingani : There is a Shri Dev Ravalnath Mandir a famous temple. It is a very old temple in Waingani & also a "Gramdaivat" of Waingani. There are many annual festivals. Waingani is 10 km from Malvan city and 40 km from Kankavali. There is a Waingani Beach. 
 Devbaug Beach (12 km south of Malvan)

 Vetal Mandir (4 km North of Malvan)
 Almeidas Ashiyana Beach Resort
 Tsunami Island of Tarkarli:  An island formed after a tsunami hit the coast in 2004. Popular for water activities including scuba diving offered by locals of Malvan Konkan Tours.

l

References 

Cities and towns in Sindhudurg district
Konkan
Tourist attractions in Sindhudurg district
Tourist attractions in Konkan