[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Serbian mafia

kić's daughter. 

Sweden saw a large influx of ethnic Serbs during the 1960s/70s, when the "Arbetskraftsinvandring" took place; The labour force of immigrants who were granted citizenship (similar to Gastarbeiter programme). In the 1980s the Serbs were the main operators of drug smuggling in Sweden.

In 2003, in a storage room located in the Vårby Gård suburbs, the Swedish police found silenced firearms; Ak47s, Uzis, MP5s, grenades, plastic explosives and mines. The arsenal was used by the Serbian Mafia in Sweden, the owner of the storage was Milan Ševo, son-in-law of Ratko Đokić, former head of the Serbian mafia. This title was soon inherited by Ševo. On 5 May 2003, Đokić was assassinated outside his boxing club in Skärholmen. One of the hitmen, Nenad Mišović, was arrested in Europe years later. Mišović came to Sweden in 2002 after fleeing the police in Serbia. He was hired by Rade Kotur, a rival of Đokić In 2004, the Serbian mafia dominated the organized crime in Sweden, known uncovered operations were doping substances.

One of the chapters in the book, Svensk Maffia (Swedish Mafia) follows the history of the Serbian mafia in Sweden from the 1960s to the present. Serbian Interior Minister Ivica Dačić claims former members of the paramilitary Red Berets took part in the 2009 Västberga helicopter robbery one of the most spectacular heists in the history. One month prior to the robbery, the Swedish Embassy in Serbia was allegedly given "certain information about a criminal group which was preparing a robbery" by Serbian police.

United Kingdom
On 2 June 2009, six Serbs were convicted, together with several Israelis, in smuggling of 12.5 ton (£36m) marijuana, orchestrated by the Israeli mafia. The marijuana was seized as it travelled from Larache, Morocco to Southampton on a tugboat under an Israeli flag. The Pink Panthers have operated in London.

United States
There has been known involvement of Balkan crime groups in the United States. One of the most notorious Serbs that arrived  in New York City  1956 was Vojislav Stanimirovic, aka MR Stan, criminal turned journalist. He was responsible for the Vizcaya Heist. His son, Pavle Stanimirović, continued the tradition. The best known is Boško Radonjić, leader of the Irish-American organized crime group "the Westies", and the left hand of LCN boss of bosses John Gotti from 1988 to 1992.

In popular culture
The Serbian mafia has appeared in a number of films, novels and video games. They have appeared in:

In film
 Absolute 100 (2001), Serbian drama/thriller, young and talented sport shooter decides to get revenge on gangsters who destroyed the life of his brother
 Assault on Precinct 13 (2005), American action thriller
  (2016), German TV film about an undercover cop infiltrating the Serbian sportsbet mafia in Germany
Beck – Kartellen, Swedish crime thriller, about the case of a murdered restaurant owner
Bröderna Jaukka, Swedish short film
 The Crew (2008 film), British drama/dark comedy
Do koske, Serbian crime/action/dark comedy
In China They Eat Dogs, Danish action-comedy, about a debt to Serb gangsters
In Order of Disappearance, Norwegian action/dark comedy depicting a war between Norwegian and Serbian gangsters
 South Wind, Serbian action film, about young Serbian car thieves chased by Serbian crime lord, corrupt police chief and Bulgarian gangsters 
Layer Cake, British action film with Daniel Craig 
Leo, Swedish drama, about the revenge of his wife's murder
 Klopka (2007), Serbian drama/thriller, set in post-Milošević era, it tells the story of a man who desperately needs money for his son's surgery, when a mysterious man appears offering money in exchange for the murder of a mafia boss
Mlad i zdrav kao ruža, widely considered to be a visionary movie, it was banned in communist Yugoslavia. It portrays a 1970s mobster who, supported by the Yugoslav secret service UDBA, rises to become a crime lord
Pusher trilogy, a series of Danish films illustrating and exploring the criminal underworld of Copenhagen.
Pusher, 1996 Danish crime thriller.
Pusher II, 2004 Danish crime thriller.
Pusher 3, 2005 Danish crime thriller.
Pusher, 2012 British remake of the 1996 Danish original.
Paradiset, Swedish drama/thriller
Rane, Serbian crime/drama/dark comedy, widely considered to be a cult classic
Ride Along, 2014 American action comedy
Snabba Cash, Swedish action, about criminal activities in Stockholm, one of the protagonists is a Serbian Mafia henchman
Snabba Cash II
Poslednji krug u Monci. A 1980s Belgrade criminal reaches Italy searching for a man who owes him money, but gradually becomes the leader of the Italian branch of Yugoslav/Serbian mafia 
Straight Business 2, Canadian International Short Film
Straight Business 3, Canadian International Short Film
The Sweeney, 2012 British action drama
The Fourth Man, Serbian action/thriller
Vidimo se u čitulji, Serbian documentary about the organized crime in Belgrade during the 1990s