[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Henrikh Mkhitaryan

d time, he scored on his return to the squad, in a 3–2 loss to Bologna. He later scored in back to back victories over Lecce and Cagliari.

2020–21 season: Permanent transfer
On 31 August 2020, Mkhitaryan's contract with Arsenal was cancelled by mutual consent and he joined Roma on a permanent deal.

On 5 November 2020, Mkhitaryan scored the club's fastest-ever goal in the UEFA Europa League, after just 57 seconds, in a 5–0 defeat of Romanian outfit CFR Cluj. Three days later, he scored a hat-trick for Roma in a 3–1 Serie A win at Genoa. On 25 May 2022, Mkhitaryan was part of the starting eleven in the final of the UEFA Conference League against Feyenoord, which Roma won 1-0 with a goal from Nicolò Zaniolo.

Inter Milan

Mkhitaryan signed for Serie A club Inter Milan on 2 July 2022. On 26 October, he scored his first Champions League goal with Inter in a 4–0 win over Viktoria Plzeň, which secured his club's qualification to the knockout phase. On 10 May 2023, Mkhitaryan scored a goal in a 2–0 win over rivals Milan in the first leg of the Champions League semifinals. On 10 June 2023, he became the first Armenian to participate in the UEFA Champions League final, by making a substitute appearance against Manchester City.

International career

Mkhitaryan debuted for the Armenia national team in an away friendly match against Panama on 14 January 2007.

He scored six goals for Armenia in UEFA Euro 2012 qualifying Group B, thus becoming top goalscorer in that group. Although Armenia did not advance past the qualifying stage for UEFA Euro 2012, Mkhitaryan's performances landed him in the UEFA Euro 2012 Qualifying Dream Team with six goals.

On 10 September 2013, in the absence of regular skipper goalkeeper Roman Berezovsky, Mkhitaryan captained his country for the first time, as they lost 0–1 at home to Denmark in World Cup qualification. He became the top scorer in the history of the Armenia national team, after scoring his 12th goal for the national team in a 3–1 defeat to Italy in another qualifier on 15 October. This surpassed the 11 scored for the nation by Artur Petrosyan.

On 27 May 2014, he scored twice in a 4–3 friendly win against the United Arab Emirates at the Stade de la Fontenette in Carouge, Switzerland. Two years and a day later, he scored Armenia's first international hat-trick in a 7–1 friendly win over Guatemala in Los Angeles.

In March 2022, Mkhitaryan announced his international retirement.

Style of play
Mkhitaryan is an attacking midfielder, who is also capable of playing as a second striker or as a winger. He excels playing in a central role, just behind the strikers, where he often looks to link up with his teammates in and around the penalty area. He is known for his ability to draw away opposing defenders and, in turn, create space for his teammates to exploit, leading to goal scoring opportunities, courtesy of his offensive movement, technique, and vision. Mkhitaryan has also been praised for his precise passing, dribbling ability, creativity, ball control and work rate, as well as his eye for the final pass; his skill and trickery on the ball enables him to beat defenders in one on one situations. Furthermore, he possesses an accurate shot.

Tom Jones, who was caretaker of Armenian national team when Mkhitaryan began playing in 2007, praised him in 2011 as "definitely good enough to play in the Premier League. He is very creative, gets his fair share of goals and is also extremely hard-working and has a great attitude." During the 2012–13 season, former Scottish footballer Pat Nevin said of Mkhitaryan, "Eleven goals in eight league matches already is fantastic, but when you add that he is a midfielder, it is phenomenal. You may not have heard of him yet, even if all the scouts at the top European clubs have, but you soon will. He has pace, skill, a rocket of a shot and the ability to arrive in the box like Frank Lampard. This all singles him out as a player who must be watched or more importantly marked."

Personal life
Mkhitaryan is a polyglot, who speaks eight languages: Armenian, French, Portuguese, Russian, Ukrainian, English, Italian and German. He attributes his knowledge of Russian to his maternal grandmother, who was of Russian ethnicity. He learned the first three languages in his childhood, while the latter four he picked up playing in Ukraine, England, Italy, and Germany. Shakhtar's Donbass Arena has a tradition of playing music each time home players score goals, with a track corresponding to the nationality of a scorer. "Sabre Dance" by Armenian composer Aram Khachaturian was played whenever Mkhitaryan scored. This song became very popular in Donetsk due to Mkhitaryan scoring frequently.