[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Israel Horovitz

t group of non-actors awarded membership in The Actors Studio.

Horovitz had a long-term friendship with Irish playwright Samuel Beckett and often found in Beckett a thematic and stylistic model and inspiration for his own work. Horovitz has also worked with The Byre Theatre of St Andrews, Scotland.

Film career
His screenplay for the 1982 film Author! Author!, starring Al Pacino, is a largely autobiographical account of a playwright dealing with the stress of having his play produced on Broadway while trying to raise a large family. Other Horovitz-penned films include the award-winning Sunshine, co-written with Istvan Szabo (European Academy Award – Best Screenplay), 3 Weeks After Paradise (which he directed and in which he starred), James Dean, an award-winning biography of the actor, and The Strawberry Statement (Prix du Jury, Cannes Film festival, 1970), a movie adapted from a journalistic novel by James Simon Kunen that deals with the student political unrest of the 1960s. Horovitz adapted his stage play My Old Lady for the screen, which he directed in summer, 2013, starring Maggie Smith, Kevin Kline, Kristin Scott-Thomas and Dominique Pinon. The film was released in cinemas worldwide in fall 2014.

Awards
He has won numerous awards for his work, including two Obies, the Drama Desk Award, The European Academy Award – Best Screenplay (for Sunshine), and The Sony Radio Academy Award (for Man In Snow on BBC-Radio 4). He also won an Award in Literature from The American Academy of Arts and Letters; The Governor of Massachusetts' Leadership Award; The Prix de Plaisir du Theatre; The Prix Italia (for radio plays); The Writers Guild of Canada Best Screenwriter Award; The Christopher Award; the Elliot Norton Prize; a Lifetime Achievement Award from B'nai B'rith; the Literature Prize of Washington College; an honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters from Salem State College; Boston Public Library's Literary Lights Award; the Walker Hancock Prize, and many others.

Sexual assault accusations
In 1993, The Boston Phoenix published an article which covered a series of accusations against Horovitz by six different women associated with the GSC. The actresses and staff members alleged that the playwright used offensive language, kissed, and/or fondled them. In response, Horovitz said, "it's rubbish. Someone was fired, and this is their revenge." At the time, no charges or lawsuits were filed against Horovitz, nor was any disciplinary action taken by the GSC's board.

On November 30, 2017, a New York Times article stated that nine women said that Horovitz had sexually assaulted or harassed them between 1986 and 2016. Some of the women were under the age of legal consent at the time. As a result, Horovitz left the Gloucester Stage Company (GSC), the theater company he had founded. His son Adam Horovitz said, "I believe the allegations against my father are true, and I stand behind the women that made them."

The February 5, 2018 episode of the Hidden Brain podcast Why Now? features in-depth interviews with women who have accused Horovitz of sexual assault. On February 19, actress Heather Graham, who briefly dated Horovitz's son Adam, appeared on Marc Maron's podcast WTF and said that the elder Horovitz made predatory advances toward her following an audition for one of his plays in 1989.

Personal life 
He was married three times:
 Elaine Abber (m. 1959–1960); one child:
 Julie
 Doris Keefe (m. 1960-1972) a painter of Roman Catholic Irish descent. They had three children, who were raised secularly:
 Rachael Horovitz (born 1961), a film producer known for producing the films About Schmidt and Moneyball
 Matthew Horovitz (born 1964), a television producer-director known for producing the NBA Network
 Adam Horovitz (born 1966), member of Beastie Boys
 Gillian Adams, an Anglican (born 1955) with whom he had two children, raised in the Jewish faith: twins Hannah and Oliver Horovitz (born 1985).

Horovitz died on November 9, 2020, from cancer in Manhattan.

Filmography

Writer-film

References

External links
 
 
 Israel Horovitz papers, 1962-1989 (bulk 1968-1975), held by the Billy Rose Theatre Division, New York Public Library for the Performing Arts
 February 5, 2018 episode of the Hidden Brain podcast Why Now? featureing in-depth interviews with women who have accused Horovitz of sexual assault. 

1939 births
2020 deaths
20th-century American dramatists and playwrights
20th-century American male writers
American male dramatists and playwrights
American male screenwriters
European Film Award for Best Screenwriter winners
Jewish American dramatists and playwrights
People from Wakefield, Massachusetts
Screenwriters from Massachusetts
20th-century American screenwriters
21st-century American dramatists and playwrights
21st-century American screenwriters
21st-century American male writers
21st-century American Jews