[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gods and Generals (film)

carlet fever and he begins to cry. Jackson's adjutant  asks why he weeps for this child but not for the thousands of dead soldiers, and Dr. Hunter McGuire states that Jackson is weeping for everyone. Jackson is soon reunited with his wife and newborn child just before the Battle of Chancellorsville.

Outside Chancellorsville, Lee identifies that the Army of Northern Virginia faces an opposing force almost twice their size. Jackson calls upon his chaplain, Beverly Tucker Lacy who knows the area, and asks him to find a route by which the Confederate forces can infiltrate in secret.  Jackson then leads his forces in a surprise attack on an unprepared Union 11th Corps. Although his men initially rout the opponents, they quickly become confused in the melee, and Jackson's attack is stalled. While scouting a path at night, Jackson is caught in no-mans-land between the two armies and badly wounded by his own men, who had mistaken him and his staff for Union cavalry. During his evacuation, his litter bearers are targeted by artillery and drop Jackson on the ground. He is then taken to a field hospital where his arm is amputated. Lee remarks that while Jackson has lost his left arm, he (Lee) has lost his right. Jackson dies shortly after, of pneumonia he had contracted during recovery. Jackson's body is returned to Lexington, accompanied by VMI Cadets and covered by the new Confederate flag.

Cast

Confederate Army (by rank)
 Robert Duvall as General Robert E. Lee
 Stephen Lang as Lieutenant General Stonewall Jackson
 Bruce Boxleitner as Lieutenant General James Longstreet
 W. Morgan Sheppard as Major General Isaac R. Trimble
 William Sanderson as Major General A.P. Hill
 Billy Campbell as Major General George Pickett
 Patrick Gorman as Major General John Bell Hood
 John Castle as Brigadier General William N. Pendleton
 John Prosky as Brigadier General Lewis A. Armistead
 Royce D. Applegate as Brigadier General James L. Kemper
 Lester Kinsolving as Brigadier General William Barksdale
 Jonathon Demers as Brigadier General Richard S. Ewell
 Andrew Prine as Brigadier General Richard B. Garnett
 J. Scott Watkins as Brigadier General Raleigh E. Colston
 Fred Griffith as Brigadier General Robert Rodes
 James Patrick Stuart as Colonel Edward Porter Alexander
 Joseph Fuqua as Lieutenant Colonel J.E.B. Stuart
 Matt Lindquist as Lieutenant Colonel Heros von Borcke
 Ted Turner as Lieutenant Colonel Waller T. Patton
 Bo Brinkman as Major Walter H. Taylor
 Jeremy London as Captain Alexander "Sandie" Pendleton

United States Army (by rank)
 Alex Hyde-White as Major General Ambrose E. Burnside
 Brian Mallon as Brigadier General and later Major General Winfield Scott Hancock
 James Garrett as Brigadier General John C. Caldwell
 Matt Letscher as Colonel Adelbert Ames (20th Maine)
 Jeff Daniels as Lieutenant Colonel Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain  (20th Maine)
 Tim O'Hare as Lieutenant Colonel St. Clair Augustine Mulholland (116th Pennsylvania)
 Jonathan Maxwell as Captain Ellis Spear (20th Maine)
 Kevin Conway as Sergeant Buster Kilrain (20th Maine)
 C. Thomas Howell as Sergeant and later Lieutenant Thomas Chamberlain (20th Maine), brother of Joshua

Civilians
 Cooper Huckabee as Henry Thomas Harrison, a Confederate spy and friend of John Wilkes Booth
 Mira Sorvino as Fanny Chamberlain, wife of Joshua Chamberlain
 Malachy McCourt as Francis Preston Blair, journalist & editor
 Kali Rocha as Anna Jackson, wife of Stonewall Jackson
 David Carpenter as Reverend Tucker Lacy
 Karen Hochstetter as Roberta Corbin
 Christie Lynn Smith as Catherine Corbin
 Lydia Jordan as Janie Corbin
 Martin Clark as Dr. George Junkin
 Damon Kirsche as Harry McCarthy, Irish author of The Bonnie Blue Flag song

Slaves
 Donzaleigh Abernathy as Martha, an enslaved woman
 Frankie Faison as Jim Lewis, an enslaved cook

Production
Ted Turner originally pitched an adaption of Gods and Generals to Warner Bros. Pictures in 2000 and decided to personally finance it after they turned him down. The final cost of the film was $60 million for the production and $30 million for the distribution of it, making it one of the most expensive independent films ever produced.