[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gregory C. Carr

se friend of biologist E. O. Wilson and served on the board of the E.O. Wilson Biodiversity Foundation until Wilson's passing on December 26, 2021.

Awards and honors
 Honorary PhD Utah State University. 2003
 Idaho Technology Hall of Fame. 2013
 Honorary PhD Boise State University. 2015

References

External links
Carr Foundation official site
Gorongosa National Park site
The New York Times "New Future for Idaho Aryan Nations Compound" by Sam Howe Verhovek
"Saving Gorongosa", Bob Shacochis, Outside, June 30, 2009
"The Monkey and the Fish", Philip Gourevitch, The New Yorker, December 21, 2009, p. 98
Carroll, Sean B. (May 22, 2016). "Resurrecting Mozambique's Magnificent Gorongosa". Sierra.
Sun Valley Magazine - Paradise Lost, and Found
The New York Times "In Mozambique, a Living Laboratory for Nature's Renewal"  by Natalie Angier
The New York Times "A Comeback for African National Parks" by Patrick Adams
Independent: "How Gorongosa National Park went from civil war battlefield to conservation leader" by Heather Richardson
National Geographic: "Devastated by war, this African park's wildlife is now thriving - A generation after civil war, more than 100,000 large animals populate Mozambique's Gorongosa National Park, a rare spot of good news" by David Quammen
Associated Press: "In Mozambique, Conservationists Try to Curb Child Marriage"
The New York Times "How Teeth Became Tusks, and Tusks Became Liabilities"
The Guardian: "Women lead the charge in healing scars of war in Mozambique wildlife park"
Nature: "Upgrading protected areas  to conserve wild biodiversity"
VIMEO: Girls Club Gorongosa
VIMEO: Dominique Gonçalves speaking about Gorongosa at National Geographic Society on Half Earth Day, 2017
Princeton University "Ecologists find a 'landscape of fearlessness' in a war-torn savannah"
National Geographic - Why Cyclone Idai was so destructive
National Geographic - Children living near national parks are healthier, more prosperous
The New York Times - Opinion by Thomas L. Friedman
Quammen, David (May 2019). "How one of Africa's great parks is rebounding from war". National Geographic.
Idaho Statesman - This Idahoan's team feeds 20,000 people after cyclone destroyed Gorongosa. Here's how to help
UNDP: Stimulating Growth - Growing coffee to restore the rainforest and lift people out of poverty also reinforces Africa's greatest wildlife restoration initiative
Idaho Statesman - Zoo Boise set to open its first exhibit in more than a decade. Here's what you'll see.
Idaho Statesman - A people ravaged by civil war found new life in Idahoan's team's effort to plant coffee
Associated Press - Mozambique peace accord brings hope of economic growth
The New York Times "Wild Pups Romp Again in an African Paradise" by Natalie Angier
Associated Press - Coffee growers help reforest Mozambique's Mount Gorongosa
Matthews, Cate (2019). "Greatest Places 2019: Gorongosa National Park". Time.
Associated Press - Thousands in Mozambique rebuild after devastating cyclones
Seasons Greetings from Gorongosa Park - Message by Greg Carr
Wired - The wild experiment to bring apex predators back from the brink
CNN Travel: Inside Africa - The women behind the comeback: How one of Africa's national parks is thriving after war
Mountain Journal - The Awakening: How Hope Was Reborn In Gorongosa
The New York Times "How This Spot (in Mozambique) Got Its Leopard"
Africa Geographic: "Gorongosa"
Greg Carr remarks at Boise City Club
Independent "The National Park that survived a war"

Corporate executives
American human rights activists
Harvard Kennedy School alumni
Utah State University alumni
People from Idaho Falls, Idaho
1959 births
Living people
Philanthropists from Idaho
Businesspeople from Idaho
20th-century American businesspeople
21st-century American businesspeople