[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Mohamed Aboutrika

e, in FIFA World Cup 2010 Qualifiers. He marked his national return against Congo DR in Kinshasa on 7 September 2008 scoring the winning goal for Egypt, to secure the Pharaohs' place in the second round of Qualifications. He scored another goal in his second match in the qualifiers against Djibouti.

On 7 June 2009, Aboutrika scored in Egypt's world cup qualifier against Algeria in Algeria but Egypt lost 3–1. On 4 July 2009, Aboutrika played in Egypt's world cup qualifier against Rwanda in Egypt, helping the Egyptians win 3–0, and scored the first and the third goal, making the Egyptian team second after Algeria, in their group. Aboutrika reached his fifth goal in FIFA World Cup 2010 Qualifiers.

2012 Summer Olympics
Aboutrika was one of the three overage players participated with Egypt in London 2012, and was the team's captain. Aboutrika scored Egypt's first goal in the tournament against Brazil in a loss 3–2. In the second game, Aboutrika's assist for Mohamed Salah picked a 1–1 draw against New Zealand. In the third game against Belarus, Aboutrika assisted a goal for Mohamed Salah and scored another to help Egypt win 3–1 and claim a quarter-final berth.

2014 FIFA World Cup Qualification

In the 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifiers, Aboutrika was the second joint top scorer of the Second round qualifiers with 5 goals and 9 assists in 6 qualifiers. The first two goals came on Stade du 28 Septembre, helping Egypt to get a win 3–2 over Guinea. On 26 March 2013, Aboutrika grabbed his third goal, a last minute penalty kick for Egypt against Zimbabwe helping hosts to win 2–1. On 9 June, he started the score sheet in Harare and Egypt won 4–2, and made two assists for his teammate Mohamed Salah. On 10 September 2013, Aboutrika played his 100th historic cap with Egypt national football team against Guinea in a World Cup Qualifier. He scored a goal and assisted two goals for Mohamed Salah and Amr Zaki. Egypt won 4–2.

Egypt set to advance to a two-leg play-off during October and November against Ghana, with the winners qualifying for Brazil 2014. Aboutrika scored Egypt's only goal in Kumasi but Egypt got a shocking loss 6–1. Yet, Aboutrika became the joint top scorer of the 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification (CAF) with 6 goals. In addition to 3 goals in 2006 qualifiers, and 5 goals in 2010 qualifiers, Aboutrika became the all-time top scorer of Egypt in the World Cup Qualifiers with 14 goals.

 Personal life 
Aboutrika is a graduate of Cairo University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in philosophy. He is married and has three children. One of them, Ahmed, is a professional footballer.

Bob Bradley, the American coach of Egypt national football team said in March 2013 about Aboutrika: "Everywhere we went people would say, 'You must pick Aboutrika'. He's incredibly popular and the people love him. He's respected not just as a player but as a man. He did all of the right things to keep himself at a high level. He is without a doubt a leader for us, and he brings experience and intelligence in a way that can make a very big difference".

Humanitarian role
As his soccer star status grew in Africa, he turned his sights to humanitarian issues. Aboutrika said:
"Every athlete has a humanitarian role in society. He doesn't live solely for himself, but for others, too. I like to participate in charity work and try my best to help the poor and penniless. I'm also seeking to use soccer in humanitarian work."

With that ideal, Aboutrika joined UNDP Goodwill Ambassadors the Brazilian player Ronaldo, and French player, Zinedine Zidane, in addition to 40 international soccer stars in 2005 for a 'Match Against Poverty' in Germany, with the aim of raising funds and increasing awareness about the issue worldwide. He scored in that match.

"In that humanitarian match, sports people said 'no to poverty' in one strong voice, standing up to beat it once and for all," Aboutrika explains. The match was held in Düsseldorf, Germany with the support of the Fédération Internationale de Football Association FIFA.

One of Aboutrika's soccer role models, is the Egyptian player, Mahmoud El Khatib. Meanwhile, off the pitch he follows the example of the Prophet Mohammed.

He volunteered to appear in a WFP 30-second Public Service Announcement (PSA) in which he draws attention to the tragic fact that 25,000 people die from hunger every day, 18,000 of them children.

"Hunger takes away a child every five seconds. We have to move immediately and lend each other a hand because every second counts. This is a game we have to win," Aboutrika said in the PSA. The PSA is being aired on Middle Eastern TV stations which are broadcasting it for free.

He believes that poverty is a double-edged sword, as it can either give rise to feelings of despair, or help the poor person to persevere and be determined. Aboutrika wishes that all those who suffer from despair could develop determination and face their difficulties with strength.