[Source: PubMed]

29. BMC Genomics. 2021 Sep 2;22(1):636. doi: 10.1186/s12864-021-07945-z.

Genome-wide association studies for canine hip dysplasia in single and multiple 
populations - implications and potential novel risk loci.

Wang S(1), Strandberg E(2), Arvelius P(3), Clements DN(4), Wiener P(1), 
Friedrich J(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetics and Genomics, The Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick) 
School of Veterinary Studies, University of Edinburgh, Midlothian, EH25 9RG, UK.
(2)Department of Animal Breeding and Genetics, Swedish University of 
Agricultural Sciences, PO Box 7023, S-750 07, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Swedish Armed Forces Dog Training Centre, Box 194, SE-195 24, Märsta, Sweden.
(4)Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, University of Edinburgh, 
Midlothian, EH25 9RG, UK.
(5)Division of Genetics and Genomics, The Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick) 
School of Veterinary Studies, University of Edinburgh, Midlothian, EH25 9RG, UK. 
juliane.friedrich@roslin.ed.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Association mapping studies of quantitative trait loci (QTL) for 
canine hip dysplasia (CHD) can contribute to the understanding of the genetic 
background of this common and debilitating disease and might contribute to its 
genetic improvement. The power of association studies for CHD is limited by 
relatively small sample numbers for CHD records within countries, suggesting 
potential benefits of joining data across countries. However, this is 
complicated due to the use of different scoring systems across countries. In 
this study, we incorporated routinely assessed CHD records and genotype data of 
German Shepherd dogs from two countries (UK and Sweden) to perform genome-wide 
association studies (GWAS) within populations using different variations of CHD 
phenotypes. As phenotypes, dogs were either classified into cases and controls 
based on the Fédération Cynologique Internationale (FCI) five-level grading of 
the worst hip or the FCI grade was treated as an ordinal trait. In a subsequent 
meta-analysis, we added publicly available data from a Finnish population and 
performed the GWAS across all populations. Genetic associations for the CHD 
phenotypes were evaluated in a linear mixed model using 62,089 SNPs.
RESULTS: Multiple SNPs with genome-wide significant and suggestive associations 
were detected in single-population GWAS and the meta-analysis. Few of these SNPs 
overlapped between populations or between single-population GWAS and the 
meta-analysis, suggesting that many CHD-related QTL are population-specific. 
More significant or suggestive SNPs were identified when FCI grades were used as 
phenotypes in comparison to the case-control approach. MED13 (Chr 9) and PLEKHA7 
(Chr 21) emerged as novel positional candidate genes associated with hip 
dysplasia.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm the complex genetic nature of hip dysplasia in 
dogs, with multiple loci associated with the trait, most of which are 
population-specific. Routinely assessed CHD information collected across 
countries provide an opportunity to increase sample sizes and statistical power 
for association studies. While the lack of standardisation of CHD assessment 
schemes across countries poses a challenge, we showed that conversion of traits 
can be utilised to overcome this obstacle.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-021-07945-z
PMCID: PMC8414704
PMID: 34474664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.