[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Europatriotism

European culture comprises a wide variety of national cultures, which influenced the creation of the various European nation-states. 
The process of European integration pursued by the European Union co-exists with national loyalties and national patriotism.

Pan-European identity generally competes with national identity. 1999 Eurobarometer surveys show that only 6% in the EU combine feeling European with their national identity. The European Union has made some attempts to increase identification with 'Europe' (meaning the EU itself), and has introduced some European symbols, but this was never as intensive as the promotion of national identity in the nation-states.

Hopes of a European patriotism 

Since the EU is not generally seen as a nation, a patriotism comparable to that of nation-states is not to be expected. Some people see that as an advantage, since it would allow for a 'constitutional patriotism' (Jürgen Habermas) directed toward the EU.

However, in the early post-World War II period, and in the 1950s, there were those who believed that 'Europe' could develop a patriotism of its own. At the time the memory of Nazi propaganda with its emphasis on loyalty to Volk was still strong, and a European patriotism was seen primarily as a counter to national aggression. Two post-war speeches by Winston Churchill illustrate the views of the time, although Churchill was using "European" in the British sense – meaning continental Europe:

"Why should there not be a European Group which could give a sense of enlarged patriotism?"
Winston Churchill in Zürich, 19 September 1946

"We hope to see a Europe where men of every country will think as much of being a European as of belonging to their native land, and that without losing any of their love and loyalty of their birthplace. We hope wherever they go in this wide domain, to which we set no limits in the European Continent, they will truly feel 'Here I am at home. I am a citizen of this country too."
Winston Churchill in Amsterdam, 9 May 1948

'Europe' seen from outside
The definition of 'Europe' in both a geographical and cultural sense has always been debated, especially among Europeans themselves.

American views
The way the United States looks at Europe is changing too, given the last update of the CIA World Factbook. Its 2005 edition says the following about the European Union:
There have been some significant changes to the latest edition of the World Factbook. The European Union is now included as an "Other" entity at the end of the listing. The European Union continues to accrue more nation-like characteristics for itself and so a separate listing was deemed appropriate. A fuller explanation may be found under the European Union Preliminary statement.

Chinese views
Chinese views of the European future are developing. A paper published several years ago saw the European Union as a rising superpower, "poised to overtake both the United States and Japan as the biggest trade and investment force in China".

Negative reactions in the Middle East
An example of negative perception of 'Europe' as a unit came during the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy. The al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades raided the European Union offices in Gaza, demanding apologies from Denmark and Norway. The protesting Palestinians evidently saw the cartoons as a 'European issue', more so than people in Europe itself, although the EU did ultimately issue a statement on the controversy.

The idea of 'Europe'
A sense of European identity traditionally derives from the idea of a common European historical narrative. In turn, that is assumed to be the source of the most fundamental European values. Typically the 'common history' includes Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome, the feudalism of the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, the Age of Enlightenment, 19th century Liberalism and negative elements such as colonialism and the World Wars . Although supporters of European integration often appeal to the 'common heritage', notably in discussions on the European Constitution, its exact nature is disputed. It does not create a uniform perspective on politics and current affairs: Europeans continue to disagree with each other, as they have done for thousands of years.