[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 178]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ge and address, I will relate a most extraordinary
incident to which I was witness during my residence in that part of the
world. A certain man, a native of the country, had committed some
offence, for which he was condemned to labour several years in the
galleys. He found means to speak to the governor of the town, and
besought him to change the nature of his punishment. 'I have been
brought up,' said he, 'a warrior, and fear dishonour, but not death.
Instead of consuming my strength and spirits in such an ignominious
employment, let me have an opportunity of achieving something worthy to
be beheld, or of perishing like a brave man in the attempt. In a few
days a solemn feast is to be celebrated, at which you will not fail to
be present, attended by all your people. I will there, in the presence
of the whole city, encounter the fiercest bull you can procure. I desire
no assistance but my horse, no weapons but this cord; yet, thus
prepared, I will meet his fury, and take him by the head, the horns, the
feet, as you shall direct. I will then throw him down, bridle him,
saddle him, and vault upon his back; in this situation you shall turn
out two more of the fiercest bulls you can find, and I will attack them
both, and put them all to death with my dagger the instant you shall
command.' The governor consented to this brave man's request, more from
curiosity to see so extraordinary a spectacle, than from the opinion it
would be attended with success.

"When the appointed day arrived the inhabitants of the city assembled,
and took their seats in a vast building which surrounded a considerable
open space destined for this amazing combat. The brave American then
appeared alone on horseback, armed with nothing but his cord; and after
riding round the place and saluting the company, he waited intrepidly
for his enemy. Presently an enormous bull was let loose, who, as soon as
he beheld the man, attacked him with all his fury. The American avoided
his shock with infinite dexterity, and galloped round the bull, who, in
his turn, betook himself to flight. The valiant horseman pursued his
flying enemy; and while he was thus engaged, he desired the governor to
direct where he would have him seized. He replied it was a matter of
indifference to him; and the American, instantly throwing his noose,
which he held ready all the time, caught the bull in his flight by one
of his hinder legs; then, galloping two or three times round the animal,
he so enveloped him in the snare, that, after a few violent efforts to
disengage himself, he fell to the earth. He then leaped lightly from his
horse; and the animal who had been perfectly trained up to this kind of
combat, stood still, and kept the cord extended; while his master
advanced to the bull, and put him to death in an instant, by stabbing
him with his dagger behind the horns.

"All the assembly uttered a shout of admiration; but the conqueror told
them, that what they had seen was nothing; and, disentangling his cord
from the slaughtered beast, he composedly mounted his horse, and waited
for a new and more formidable enemy. Presently the gate of the torillo
was opened, and a bull, much more furious than the last, rushed out,
whom he was ordered to bridle and saddle, according to his engagement."

"I protest," said Tommy, "this is the most wonderful story I ever heard.
I do not believe all the fine gentleman I have ever seen, put together,
would dare to attack such a bull."

"Master," replied the Black, "the talents of mankind are various; and
nature has, in every country, furnished the human species with all the
qualities necessary for their preservation. In this country, and many
others which I have seen, there are thousands who live, like birds in
cages, upon the food provided by others, without doing anything for
themselves. But they should be contented with the happiness they enjoy
(if such a life can be called happiness), and not despise their
fellow-creatures, without whose continual assistance they could not
exist an instant."

"Very true, indeed," answered Tommy; "you seem to be a very honest
sensible man, though a negro; and since I have given myself up to the
improvement of my mind, I entertain the same opinions. But let us hear
how this brave man succeeded in his next attempt."

"When the champion perceived this second enemy approach, he waited for
him with the same intrepidity he had discovered before, and avoided his
formidable shock by making his horse wheel nimbly round the bull. When
he had thus baffled his fury, and put his enemy to flight, he chased
him some time, as he had done the former, till he drove him near to the
middle of the enclosed space, where a strong post had been firmly fixed
into the ground. As soon as he approached the spot he threw the unerring
noose, and, catching the bull by the horns, entangled him as he had done
before, and dragged him with some difficulty to th