[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Louise Pratt

through her role as a member of the Public Obstetric Services Select Committee, and served as Chair of the State Government Adoption Legislation Review Committee. Pratt made some headlines again in December 2005, arguing for the introduction of civil union legislation in the state.

Federal politics

First term (2008–2014)
Pratt began campaigning for Labor preselection for a Senate seat for the 2007 federal election in mid-2006. She received wide cross-factional support, and achieved a shock victory in October, topping the poll to win first position on the Labor ticket ahead of incumbent Senators Mark Bishop and Ruth Webber. This resulted in Webber's subsequent defeat at the general election after being dropped to the only marginally winnable third position. Pratt subsequently resigned from her Legislative Council seat in October 2007, and as the highest-placed Labor candidate, was easily elected to the Senate in November. Batong Pham, a former political staffer, was appointed to Pratt's former Legislative Council seat on 26 November 2007.

In the Senate, Pratt was made a member of the Joint Standing Committee on Treaties, the Standing Committee on Economics, and the Standing Committee on Environment, Communications and the Arts. She made her first speech on 27 August 2008, in which she mentioned a range of policy issues with which was concerned: sexuality, the environment, foreign aid, immigration, social inclusion and workforce participation.

In September 2012 Pratt, along with three other Labor Senators co-sponsored a Bill to amend the Marriage Act (1961) and enable same-sex marriages to be recognised. The Bill was ultimately defeated, however Pratt's impassioned speech in support of the Bill received widespread national and international attention. In December 2013, Pratt, along with Senators Sue Boyce (LNP) and Sarah Hanson-Young (The Greens) established a cross-party working group on marriage equality.

Pratt went on to become Shadow Parliamentary Secretary for the Environment, Climate Change and Water in 2013, a position she held until her defeat at the Federal Senate Election in 2014. Pratt's defeat at that election marked a highly unusual episode in Australian politics – after initially being narrowly elected in the 2013 general Federal election, a Senate recount was held and Pratt's seat was lost. However, 1375 votes were lost during the recount, resulting in the High Court ordering that a new, half-Senate only election be held in WA. During the subsequent campaign, Labor's vote declined significantly and Pratt failed to regain her seat in the final result.

Second term (2016–present)
Following Pratt's defeat she took up work in the community sector, working for Western Australia's peak housing and homelessness service and serving on the Board of the Burnett Institute. She was the fourth candidate on the Western Australian ALP ticket for the Senate in the 2016 election, and was re-elected to the Senate. Following her election, Pratt was subsequently appointed to the Shadow Ministry, as Shadow Assistant Minister for Families and Communities.

Personal life
Pratt has a son, born in October 2014, who she co-parents with her former partner Aram Hosie, a trans man and LGBTI community activist, as well as Western Australian state Labor MLC Stephen Dawson and his partner Dennis Liddelow, one of whom is the biological father. Pratt married her long term partner Rebecca Misich in June of 2023.

See also
 Women in the Australian Senate
 Women in the Western Australian Legislative Council

References

External links 
 Gay and Lesbian Equality website

1972 births
Living people
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Australia
Labor Left politicians
Lesbian politicians
Australian lesbians
LGBT legislators in Australia
Members of the Australian Senate
Members of the Australian Senate for Western Australia
Members of the Western Australian Legislative Council
Women members of the Australian Senate
People from Kalgoorlie
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Western Australia
21st-century Australian politicians
21st-century Australian women politicians
Women members of the Western Australian Legislative Council
Australian people of English descent
People who lost British citizenship
Politicians from Perth, Western Australia