[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fourth Ward, Houston

ing Finance Corp. took control of the lands. The city divided the parcels to the east and the west. The city sold the parcels closest to Downtown Houston to private developers. The city used the acquired funds to develop the remaining parcels into subsidized houses, with each priced around $110,000.

The Houston Housing Authority (HHA), then known as Housing Authority of the City of Houston (HACH), made a unanimous vote to demolish Allen Parkway Village. This caused residents to begin a campaign to rescue the complex, including activist Lenwood Johnson. The legal campaign reached the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. In 1996 Henry Cisneros, the head of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, signed an agreement to allow the City of Houston to demolish 677 of the community's 963 units as long as the site was still used for low income housing. The remaining units have been placed on the National Register of Historic Places.

In the late 1990s and 2000s, the area underwent gentrification, and many new mid-rise apartment complexes and upscale townhomes were built. Beginning in the mid-1990s, the shotgun shacks were torn down, with townhouses replacing them. Many long-time residents, mostly renters, have moved out because they were unable to afford the increasing rent due to rising property values, and when low income renters moved out of the neighborhood, wealthy homeowners moved in. During the late 1990s the Fourth Ward Redevelopment Corporation was founded in order to preserve historical aspects of the community.

By 1999 the remaining 500 residential units of the Allen Parkway Village were renamed to The Historic Oaks of Allen Parkway. Of the 500 units 280 were existing units and 220 were newly constructed with $30 million federal funding. The first new group of tenants consisted of 156 low income elderly individuals.

By 2004, portions of what was the Fourth Ward became a part of the Midtown community. Apartments, restaurants, and townhouses replaced many of the former Fourth Ward historical landmarks. During that year Jeannie Kever of the Houston Chronicle said "many people claim it is too late" to salvage the historical aspects of the community. Marcia Johnson, the chairperson of the Fourth Ward Redevelopment Corp., said "So much has been destroyed." Patricia Smith Prather, the executive director of the Texas Trailblazer Preservation Association, said in 2004 "The developers have literally stolen the Fourth Ward. It's gone. There's no high school there. There's no library there." Garnet Coleman, a Texas state representative of the Third Ward, said in 2009 that the Fourth Ward cannot recapture the sense of community that it used to have. Coleman added "the residents got pushed to the suburbs, and the businesses got wiped away." The Houston Chronicle said that the re-development of the Fourth Ward reflected a general trend of city officials and city residents allowing the destruction of historic houses and that the Fourth Ward was becoming "a western extension of Midtown's condo and loft district." In 2011 Lisa Gray of the Houston Chronicle said "Hardly anyone calls it Freedman's Town or the Fourth Ward anymore. Now it's just Midtown."

In 2007 the municipal government offered to remove the historic bricks from some streets so the city can improve subterranean infrastructure; the city wanted to place the bricks back in place. Some residents and preservationists opposed the measure. The staff of the Houston Chronicle argued that the temporary moving of the bricks was a reasonable measure. In a March 2010 town hall meeting, some residents accused police officers in the area of racial profiling.

Due to areas like Midtown, Montrose, and the Heights becoming low on land for use, plus the Fourth Ward's close proximity to downtown Houston, many developers are now finding the area prime for apartments, office space, and retail developments. New apartment developments have arrived to the Fourth Ward at the intersections of Dallas and Gillette Streets, Saulnier and Crosby Streets, and West Gray and Bailey Streets.  Houston-based DC Partners and Tianqing Real Estate Development LLC are in the process of developing The Allen, a multiple high-rise, mixed-use project off Allen Parkway and Gillette Street featuring a Thompson Hotel, condos, apartments, office spaces, and retail/restaurants. This project will connect to Buffalo Bayou Park with a skywalk over Allen Parkway.