[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yorktown order of battle

The siege of Yorktown was the culminating act of the Yorktown campaign, a series of military operations occupying much of 1781 during the American Revolutionary War.  The siege was a decisive Franco-American victory: after the surrender of British Lt. Gen. Charles, Earl Cornwallis on October 17, the government of Lord North fell, and its replacement entered into peace negotiations that resulted in British recognition of American independence with the 1783 Treaty of Paris.

The siege involved land forces from the United States, including the Continental Army and state militias, as well as land forces under French and British command.  The British forces included a large number of troops from various German principalities of the Holy Roman Empire that were collectively known as Hessians.  Since Yorktown, Virginia was specifically selected by Cornwallis for its properties as a deep-water port, both sides had naval support as well: the British forces included some Royal Navy vessels, and the Franco-American allies were supported by a large French fleet, some of whose marines were landed to assist in siege operations.  German historians have noted that approximately one third of all the land forces involved were either hired or recruited from German states, or were German immigrants to America; this has led the siege to be known in German historiography as "die Deutsche Schlacht" ("the German battle").

The following units and commanders of the British, American, and French forces fought in the Siege of Yorktown, or provided significant local support.

British Army
The British Army forces present at Yorktown arrived in Virginia in four separate detachments.  The first was sent from New York City in December 1780 under the command of the turncoat Brigadier General Benedict Arnold.  The second was sent from New York in March 1781 under the command of Major General William Phillips to reinforce Arnold after a Franco-American threat.  The third detachment to arrive was that of General Cornwallis, who had been active in the Carolinas and, following the Battle of Guilford Court House on March 15, decided to join forces with Arnold and Phillips. This was contrary to instructions from his superior, Lieutenant General Sir Henry Clinton, British Commander-in-Chief in North America. He arrived at Petersburg, Virginia in late May to take command of the troops there; Phillips had died of a fever just a week before, and Arnold returned to New York not long after Cornwallis arrived.  While at Petersburg, Cornwallis was joined by a fourth detachment from New York that was under the command of the Hessian Colonel August von Voigt.

With this force, numbering about 7,200, Cornwallis first chased after the army of the Marquis de Lafayette, a much smaller force of Continental Army and local militiamen that had provided some resistance to the movements of Phillips and Arnold.  Cornwallis was eventually ordered by General Clinton to establish a fortified deep-water port at either Yorktown or Portsmouth.  Cornwallis chose Yorktown, and began constructing fortifications there and Gloucester Point, just across the York River from Yorktown, in August 1781.

British forces 
Commander: Lt. Gen. Charles, Earl Cornwallis, commanding

 Headquarters
 Staff
 Troop from 17th Regiment of (Light) Dragoons, incorporated into British Legion (elements opposite Yorktown in Gloucester)
 Royal Marines Infantry

 Artillery
 Royal Regiment of Artillery (plus detachments of sailors manning guns from scuttled ships) (167 men all of ranks (from RA)
Detachments from No.1 Company, 4th Battalion, RA
Detachments from No.2 Co, 4th Btn , RA
No.6 Co, 4th Btn, RA
Detachments from No.8 Co, 4th Btn, RA
Hesse-Hanau Artillery Company

 Brigade of Foot Guards commanded by Brig. Gen. Charles O'Hara
 1st Battalion, 1st Regiment of Foot Guards (two companies of grenadiers, as opposed to one)
 1st Consolidated Battalion
 2nd Consolidated Battalion

 Light Infantry Brigade commanded by Lt. Col. Robert Abercromby
 1st Battalion (Light companies from the 4th, 7th, 15th, 17th, 23rd, 27th, 33rd, and 38th Foot)
 2nd Battalion (Light companies from the 37th, 43rd, 45th, 49th, 55th, 63rd, and 71st Foot)
 82nd Regiment of Foot
 1st Brigade commanded by Lt. Col. John Yorke
17th Regiment of Foot
23rd Regiment of Foot (Royal Welch Fuzileers)
33rd Regiment of Foot
 2nd Battalion, 71st Regiment of Foot (Fraser's Highlanders)
 2nd Brigade commanded by Lt. Col. Thomas Dundas
43rd Regiment of Foot
 76th Regiment of Foot (MacDonald's Highlanders)
 80th Regiment of Foot (Royal Edinburgh Volunteers)

German contingents
 Ansbach-Bayreuth Contingent under Col. August von Voigt
 1st Ansbach-Bayreuth Regiment
 2nd Ansbach-Bayreuth Regiment
 Ansbach-Bayreuth Artillery Company
 Hesse-Kassel Contingent under Lt. Col. Matthew von Fuchs
 Erbprinz Musketeer Regiment
 von Bose Regiment
 Jaeger Korps (company)
 Unknown Artillery Company

Loyalists