[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Old Abe

d also served as eagle bearer.  The next day, Hill bore the eagle into Madison at the head of 70 veterans, of which 26 were from Company C.  Here, on the 26th, Captain Victor Wolf presented Old Abe to Governor James T. Lewis, who handed the eagle, with its perch, to Quartermaster General N. F. Lund.

Postbellum
After Wisconsin took possession of Old Abe, state officials classified him as a "War Relic" and created an "Eagle Department" in the Capitol building, which included a two-room "apartment," a custom bathtub for the eagle, and a caretaker. Later, John Hill served as a caretaker. Eigg-native Captain Angus R. McDonald, the hero of the Battle of Fort Blakeley and Scottish-American descended from Somerled, King Robert the Bruce, and the Chiefs of Clan MacDonald of Clanranald, and last direct descendant of iconic Scottish Gaelic war poet Alasdair Mac Mhaighstir Alasdair, also served as Old Abe's paid caretaker.

Old Abe became a nationally known celebrity, whose presence at events was requested by individuals and organizations from the state and the country.  Old Abe appeared at the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and the 1880 Grand Army of the Republic National Convention. Other events were fundraisers for charities, which included: the 1865 Northwest Sanitary Fair in Illinois, Soldiers' Home Fair, Soldier's Orphan's Home, Harvey Hospital, and Ladies Aid Society of Chippewa Falls.

In February 1881, a small fire broke out in the basement of the Capitol.  After Old Abe raised an alarm, the fire was quickly put out. However, the eagle inhaled a large amount of thick black smoke, and about a month later, lost strength and began to decline.  On March 26, 1881, in spite of the efforts of numerous doctors, Old Abe died in the arms of caretaker George Gilles.

On September 17, 1881, Old Abe's stuffed remains were placed in a glass  display case located in the rotunda of the Capitol.  Four years later, Old Abe was moved, within the Capitol, from the rotunda to the G.A.R. Memorial Hall. In 1900, his remains were transferred to the new building of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin. However, pressure from veterans convinced Governor Robert M. La Follette to return Old Abe to the Capitol building in 1903.  That year, President Theodore Roosevelt viewed the remains and expressed his pleasure at being able to see the eagle he had studied in school as a child. However, in 1904, Old Abe's remains and the glass case were destroyed in a fire that razed the Capitol building.

Since 1915, a replica of Old Abe has presided over the Wisconsin State Assembly Chamber in the Capitol, and another is on display at the Wisconsin Veterans Museum in Madison.   A stone sculpture of the eagle is at the top of the Camp Randall Arch.

In memoriam
In 1865, Jerome Case incorporated Old Abe into the trademark of the J. I. Case agricultural equipment manufacturing company of Racine, Wisconsin. This trademark was retired in 1969.

The insignia of the U.S. Army's 101st Airborne Division is a depiction of Old Abe. Wisconsin was the territory of the original 101st Division after World War I, and the insignia's design is based on Civil War traditions of the state. The black shield derives from black hats worn by members of the Iron Brigade.  This was a famous Civil War unit composed of western regiments, which included three from Wisconsin, but not the 8th regiment.

Old Abe is the mascot of Eau Claire Memorial High School, whose athletic teams are known as "Old Abes", and of Racine Case High School, whose teams are "Eagles".

See also
 List of individual birds

References

External links
 'Old Abe' the Eagle Accompanies the 8th Wisconsin Infantry into War
 Rosholt, Malcolm and Margaret Rosholt. The Story of Old Abe: Wisconsin's Civil War Hero Rosholt House, 1987.
 Feather from Old Abe the War Eagle
 Old Abe Online Exhibit, by the Wisconsin Veterans Museum

Wisconsin in the American Civil War
Bird mascots
1861 animal births
1881 animal deaths
Individual eagles