[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Atto of Vercelli

Atto of Vercelli or Atto II (c. 885 AD – 961 AD) was a Lombard who became bishop of Vercelli in 924. He served as Grand Chancellor to Hugh of Provence and Lothar II, both Kings of Italy in the 10th century. During his time as bishop, Atto was known for his devotion to the welfare of the people in his diocese, both temporal and spiritual, and the vigour with which he attacked ecclesial corruption. He wrote several works in his lifetime. His major compositions include Polypticum, a treatise on the morality of Italy in the day; De pressuris ecclesiasticis, an essay regarding ecclesiastical authority; and the Capitulare, a collection of canon law from his area, including some of the False Decretals, augmented by his own additions of ecclesiastic law. A small selection of his sermons survives in written form. He died in 961.

Early life
Atto was born around 885 and lived approximately seventy-five years, dying on 31 December 961. He was born into a noble Lombard family; his father was a man named Aldegarius. Atto's writing later in life shows a mastery of Latin and Greek – Latin being the only common language in Italy by the 9th Century – which indicates that his education must have been substantial, in line with the social standing of his family. Little else is known about Atto's childhood or ecclesiastic career beginnings.

Episcopate of Vercelli
Atto's rise to become bishop of Vercelli was the consequence of a violent attack on the city of Pavia. The invading army was Hungarian in origin. In 924, forces entered Italy, descending upon Pavia on 12 March. Ragembert, Atto's predecessor as bishop of Vercelli, was in Pavia at the time and perished in the event. This left the bishopric of Vercelli open for Atto, who must have been a prominent member of the clergy in Vercelli already to be eligible for the position. The episcopate put Atto in contact with many powerful men, including Hugh of Provence, King of Italy; Lothar II, King of Italy and Hugh's son; and the margrave Berengar II. He served as Grand Chancellor to both Hugh of Provence and Lothar II during their respective reigns over the Kingdom of Italy. His position with Lothar II began in May of 950. Atto did not agree with Lothar's unjust means of ruling, but was unsuccessful in making any real changes, as he could only council the young king.

Religious Zeal and Church Corruption
Atto was highly concerned with the welfare of the people in his diocese, both spiritual and secular. He disapproved of the use of horoscopes to direct life choices such as marriage. He did not, however, prohibit the use of astrology in his flock completely, as he said that God created stars for the use of man. As a result, he encouraged the practical application of astrology as a method of telling time, navigating, and predicting the weather, for the benefit of his people who relied upon astrological calculations for their livelihoods. He worried extensively about the corruption of his flock: in an Easter sermon, he discredited public entertainment such as plays, particularly during the weeks of Lent and Easter. He claimed public entertainment was fabricated by the infamous “demons” Liberus and Venus as a device to incite depravity.

His spiritual zeal was more famously directed toward the church itself. Atto was concerned with the clergy in Northern Italy. Although he noticed pagan superstitions in his parishioners, he believed these superstitions to be the fault of the clergy, who were “clearly not particularly devoted to their priestly duties. He readily prescribed punishment for priests who were misleading or neglecting their flocks. Atto also wished to rectify the growing problem of sexuality within the priesthood. He had discovered that many clerics, who were, by the decree of the Council of Nicaea, supposed to be celibate, were fornicating with women. Such clerics often made excuses as to why they needed women around, but Atto saw through these. Although he didn’t threaten any punishment to the offending ecclesiastics, he did strongly suggest that they should stop. More likely than not, his influence was not very strong on matters that were so tied to human nature, such as this.