[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Death of God theology

od did not occur at this point, this was the moment in time in which humanity was awakened to the idea that a theistic God may not exist. In Rubenstein's work, it was no longer possible to believe in an orthodox/traditional theistic God of the Abrahamic covenant; rather, God is a historical process.

21st century
Although the direct linkage between the Lacanian-Marxist critical theory of Slavoj Žižek and Death of God thought is not immediately apparent, his explicitly Hegelian reading of Christianity, defended most conspicuously in the 2009 The Monstrosity of Christ, strongly lends itself to this tradition. Strongly influenced by both Dietrich Bonhoeffer and G.K. Chesterton, Žižek advocates a variant of Christian atheism, more or less strongly depending upon context. As early as Adam Kotsko's 2008 Žižek and Theology a direct linkage between Žižek and this tradition has been maintained. Initially, reviewers vigorously rejected this connection, but following the publication of The Monstrosity of Christ as well as subsequent co-paneled sessions, the direct relation between Žižek and Thomas Altizer has become clear.

Theology

Secularism 

Vahanian, Van Buren, and Hamilton agree that the concept of transcendence had lost any meaningful place in modern thought. According to the norms of contemporary secular modern thought, God  dead. In responding to this collapse of transcendence, Vahanian proposes a radically post-Christian alternative to traditional theism. Van Buren and Hamilton offered secular people the option of Jesus as the model human who acted in love. The encounter with the Christ of faith would be open in a church community.

God's existence 

To what extent God may properly be understood as "dead" is highly debated among death of God theologians. In its strongest forms, God is said to have literally died, often as incarnated on the cross or at the moment of creation. Thomas J. J. Altizer remains the clearest proponent of this perspective. Weaker forms of this theological bent often interpret the "death of God" as meaning that God never existed, or that people today "do not experience God except, perhaps, as a hidden, silent, absent being."

Salvation

Time magazine cover 

The cover of the April 8, 1966, edition of Time magazine asked the question "Is God Dead?" and the accompanying article addressed growing atheism in America at the time, as well as the growing popularity of Death of God theology.

See also 

Atheism
Christian atheism
Christian theology
Demythologization
God is dead

Postchristianity
Secular theology

References

Source

Further reading 

 
 
 
 
 
Foster, Stephen (2019) "Theology as Repetition: John Macquarrie in Conversation" (Eugene: Wipf and Stock, 2019)

External links

 
Religious atheism
Death of deities