[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Old Havana

to restore Old Havana through the efforts of the Office of the Historian of the City,  which was directed by Eusebio Leal. The restoration effort successfully transformed Old Havana into a tourist attraction, and also resulted in Leal becoming recognized as Old Havana's de facto Mayor.

Main sights

 The Malecón is the avenue that runs along the seawall at the northern shore of Havana, from Old Havana to the Almendares River.
 The Paseo del Prado, Havana is the street that forms the western edge of Old Havana, being its boundary with Centro Habana.
 Castillo del Morro, a picturesque fortress guarding the entrance to Havana bay. The construction of the castle Los Tres Reyes del Morro owed to the step along in Havana of the English pirate Sir Francis Drake. The king of Spain arranged its construction on a big stone which was known by the name of El Morro. He sent the field master Juan de Texeda, accompanied by the military engineer Battista Antonelli, who came to Havana in 1587 and began the task at once.
 La Cabaña fortress, located on the east side of the Havana Bay. It impresses with its 18th-century walls, constructed at the same time as El Morro.  Every night at 9 p.m., soldiers dressed in uniforms of the era shoot from here, the “el cañonazo de las nueve”, (gunshot of the nine). It goes off every day, to warn of the closing of the doors of the wall that surrounded the city.
 San Salvador de la Punta Fortress, On the shore opposite to the Castle of El Morro, at the beginning of the curve of El Malecon, rises the fortress of San Salvador de la Punta. It was constructed in 1590, and in 1629 the Chapter of Havana decided that to defend better the port, to join it, at night, with the El Morro by using a thick chain that prevented the entry of enemy ships.
 Castillo de la Real Fuerza, The fortress or (lit.) Castle of the Royal Army is another big monument that closes the Plaza de las Armas. It was the first big fortification of the city, initiated in 1558 on the ruins of an ancient fortress. In the same year, the Crown sent to Cuba the engineer Bartolomé Sanchez, supervised by 14 official and main stonemasons in order to reconstruct the castle, which had been set fire and destroyed by the French corsair Jacques de Sores.
 Catedral de San Cristóbal, the most prominent building on the Plaza de la Catedral.  The cathedral was raised on the chapel after 1748 by order of the bishop from Salamanca, Jose Felipe de Trespalacios. It is one of the most beautiful and sober churches of the American baroque.
 National Capitol, styled after the Panthéon (Paris), looking similar to the U.S. Capitol.
 Galician Center, Central Park, The Galician Center, of neobarroque style was established as a social club of the Galician emigrants between 1907 and 1914. Built on the Theater Tacon (nowadays Great Theater of Havana), it was open during the Carnival of 1838 with five masked dances.
 Plaza de Armas – the main touristic square.  The origin of its name is military, since from the end of the 16th century the ceremonies and the military events took place here.
 Gran Teatro de la Havana, the Great Theater of Havana is famous, particularly for the acclaimed National Ballet of Cuba and its founder Alicia Alonso. It sometimes performs the National Opera. The theater is also known as concert hall, Garcia Lorca, the biggest in Cuba.
 The Museum of the Revolution, located in the former Presidential Palace, with the boat Granma on display in front of the museum.
 San Francisco de la Habana Basilica, Habana Vieja, The set of church and convent of San Francisco de Asis, built in the year 1608 and reconstructed in 1737.

Threats

In 2008, Hurricane Ike destroyed many structures in Old Havana, overturning years of conservation work directed at the iconic antiquated buildings of the area.  Not only did it damage historic buildings, but it forced many of Old Havana's residents to flee for safety.  The threats that hurricanes pose adds to an already tenuous state for Old Havana's many historic buildings.  Age, decay, and neglect combine with natural factors in a complex set of threats to the long-term preservation of this historic old town.

Photo gallery

Twin towns – sister cities
Old Havana is twinned with the following cities:
  Viveiro, Spain
  Cartagena, Colombia
  Guanajuato, Guanajuato, Mexico
  Sintra, Portugal

See also

List of buildings in Havana
 Havana
 List of World Heritage Sites in the Caribbean

References

External links

 Links to sites with casa particular and travel info on Old Havana
 Hotels in Old Havana Travel and tourism
Old Havana Restoring Hidden Treasured Murals by Vanessa Bauza, Sun Sentinel, April 11, 2004
Particular houses in Old Havana Cheap accommodation in Old Habana

Municipalities of Havana
Historic districts
Port cities and towns in Cuba
Tourist attractions in Havana