[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Jan Crawford

Jan Crawford Greenburg is an American television journalist, author, and attorney. She serves as a political correspondent and chief legal correspondent for CBS News and previously for ABC News. She appears regularly on the CBS Evening News, Face the Nation, CBS This Morning, and CBS News Sunday Morning. She led CBS News's coverage of the 2012 Presidential Elections. She is a New York Times bestselling author of Supreme Conflict: The Inside Story of the Struggle for Control of the United States Supreme Court and also a member of the New York State Bar Association.

Early life and education
Crawford grew up on a farm in Baileyton, Alabama. She graduated from Albert P. Brewer High School, then enrolled at the University of Alabama, where she obtained her Bachelor of Arts in 1987. Crawford graduated from the University of Chicago Law School in 1993.

Career
She joined the Chicago Tribune as a reporter in 1987. After graduating from law school, she began covering legal affairs for the Tribune, which put her on the Supreme Court beat in 1994. In 1996, she won the Tribune's top reporting award for her work in a 13-part series on the South a generation after the civil rights movement.  In 2001, her work was honored with the Tribune's top reporting award. In his first television interview, Chief Justice John Roberts talked to Crawford about the court, his views on the law, and his life since taking office. Justice John Paul Stevens also chose Crawford for his first network television interview, reflecting on his memories of the man who appointed him to the Supreme Court in 1975, former President Gerald R. Ford, on the occasion of Ford's funeral.

From 1998 until 2007, Crawford provided legal analysis on the Supreme Court for The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer.  She helped to provide live, gavel-to-gavel coverage on PBS of the Supreme Court confirmation hearings of Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito, and served as the Supreme Court analyst for  Face the Nation on CBS. From 2007 to 2009, she had been senior legal correspondent for ABC and wrote a blog titled  "Legalities." In 2010, she began work for CBS, with a blog called "Crossroads." Currently she is the chief legal and political correspondent for CBS.

Crawford has taught journalism at American University and frequently speaks about the court to universities, law schools, legal organizations, and civic groups.

Personal life
She is married to Douglas Greenburg, who graduated from University of Chicago Law School with her in 1993.

Bibliography
 Jan Crawford Greenburg, Supreme Conflict: The Inside Story of the Struggle for Control of the United States Supreme Court New York : Penguin Press, 2007.

References

External links 
 NewsHour transcript: Greenburg interview
 Library of Congress Book Festival streaming video: Greenburg talks about her Supreme Court book
 Video of discussion with Jan Crawford Greenburg and Dahlia Lithwick on Bloggingheads.tv
 

Living people
University of Alabama alumni
University of Chicago Law School alumni
CBS News people
1965 births