[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alliances (The Wire)

"Alliances" is the fifth episode of the fourth season of the HBO original series The Wire. Written by Ed Burns with a story by David Simon & Ed Burns, and directed by David Platt, it originally aired on October 8, 2006.

Plot
Dukie, Randy, Namond, Michael, Donut and Kenard discuss Lex's disappearance. Namond, Donut, and Kenard believe that Partlow is turning his victims into zombies. At school, Prez offers prizes to students who exhibit good behavior, while the most disruptive students get detention. Prez gives Michael and Namond detention for not attempting their work, and sends Namond to the office when he swears at Prez.

Colvin believes the students in the school can be split into two broad groups: the better-behaved "stoop kids" and the disruptive, street-acclimated "corner kids". Colvin believes that by accepting the latter into Parenti's in-school program, both groups could do better. After discussion with Grace Sampson and Dr. Parenti, Sampson suggests that the key is coming up with a program to benefit the corner kids. They encounter Namond in the halls on his way to the office and he swears at Parenti. Donnelly suggests that Colvin and Parenti begin with ten children.

Prez learns that Michael cannot make detention since he needs to walk Bug home, and tells him to talk to him if he is unable to make detention. Prez gives Dukie some of his lunch and a hall pass and change to get something to drink. When Dukie leaves the room, Crystal explains that Dukie is not wearing the new clothes Prez gave him because his family steals his possessions and sells them for drug money.

After school, Randy talks to Dukie about his fears of Partlow coming for him and confesses his role in Lex's murder. Dukie tries to convince Randy that Partlow is simply murdering his victims in the vacant rowhouses, explaining that he saw one killing from his bedroom window. Dukie takes Michael and Randy to one of the vacant buildings Partlow has used and shows them a body interred there. Randy is forced to face up to Partlow's victims being truly dead.

Politics
Major Stan Valchek visits Tommy Carcetti at his campaign offices. He gives Carcetti the news of Detective Norris being reassigned from the murdered witness case and replaced with homicide rookie Kima Greggs. After Valchek leaves, Carcetti discusses how to use the information with Norman Wilson and Theresa D'Agostino. Wilson suggests giving the story to Councilman Anthony Gray to allow him to press the mayor over the witness case and draw off more of his votes.

Mayor Clarence Royce shaves off his beard, hoping that a return to the image he wore when first elected will improve his polling. Royce's Chief of Staff Coleman Parker is impressed with the change of image.

Meanwhile, Carcetti campaigns hard, giving out fliers in the early morning. Wilson reports that Gray has accepted their offer for a meeting. At the meeting, Gray sees through their motives for giving him the information but decides to use it regardless, knowing that it will help him as well. Wilson tells Gray that at this point he cannot hope to win and should consider reconciling with Carcetti and gearing up for another position.

Royce has a strategy meeting but is interrupted by Parker, who has noticed the media reporting on the witness story. Royce angrily confronts Commissioner Ervin Burrell about this new problem from his department. Royce lists Burrell's problems and berates him for his overzealous efforts to slow the witness case, finally ordering him out of the office. With Burrell gone, Royce questions his deputy commissioner, William Rawls. Rawls claims that he is loyal to Burrell but knew he was making a mistake. He tells Royce that he could handle the pressure of Burrell's position. Royce then asks Rawls to make this incident go away, claiming he won't forget what Rawls has done.

Watkins confronts Royce over the mayor's use of multiple campaign tickets, with one ticket endorsing Eunetta Perkins and another endorsing Marla Daniels. Watkins also chides Royce for his decision making regarding the witness killing. After Royce stands firm, Watkins says he will sit out the election and storms out of the office. Royce declines to chase after Watkins, despite Parker's pleas to do so.

Rawls discovers that Watkins has broken from the mayor and tells Carcetti, who immediately goes to Watkins' office with Wilson to pitch for Watkins' support. Carcetti indicates that he would be more dependent on Watkins' help than Royce if elected, and declares that the polls are closer than Royce admits.