[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mosaic covenant

rrespondence with a royal grant. In spite of the numerous theories revolving covenants in the ancient Near East, Weinfeld ensures his readers that the covenants exposed in the Old Testament fall beneath one of the two plausible types he has identified, either an obligatory type or a promissory type.

In an article comparing covenants and forms of treaties common at the time, Mendenhall focuses on Hittite suzerainty treaties. These treaties, established between an emperor (suzerain) and inferior king (vassal), were defined by several important elements. The treaties were based on past aid or good fortune that the suzerain had previously delivered to the vassal and the obligations that the vassal, therefore, had to the suzerain. This foundation for a treaty relationship is similar to the foundation for the Mosaic covenant and the Decalogue, according to Mendenhall. God had delivered the Israelites from Egypt in the Exodus, and they therefore are obligated to follow the commandments in the Decalogue. As the suzerain, God has no further obligations towards the Israelites—but it is implied that God will continue to protect them as a result of the covenant.

Judaism

In the Hebrew Bible, God established the Mosaic covenant with the Israelites after he saved them from slavery in Egypt in the story of the Exodus. Moses led the Israelites to the promised land known as Canaan after which Joshua led them to its possession.

The Mosaic covenant played a role in defining the Kingdom of Israel (c. 1220-c. 930 BC), and subsequently the southern Kingdom of Judah (c. 930-c. 587 BC) and northern Kingdom of Israel (c. 930-c. 720 BC), and Yehud Medinata (c.539-c.333 BC), and the Hasmonean Kingdom (140-37 BC), and the Bar Kokhba revolt (132-136 AD), and Rabbinic Judaism c. 2nd century to the present.

Rabbinic Judaism asserts that the Mosaic covenant was presented to the Jewish people and converts to Judaism (which includes the biblical proselytes) and does not apply to Gentiles, with the notable exception of the Seven Laws of Noah which apply to all people.

Christianity

The Mosaic covenant or Law of Moses, which Christians generally call the "Old Covenant" in contrast to the New Covenant, has played an important role in the shaping of Christianity. It has been the source of serious dispute and contention seen in Jesus' expounding of the Law during his Sermon on the Mount, the circumcision controversy in early Christianity, and the Incident at Antioch which has led scholars to dispute the relationship between Paul of Tarsus and Judaism. The Book of Acts says that after the ascension of Jesus, Stephen, the first Christian martyr, was killed when he was accused of speaking against the Jerusalem Temple and the Mosaic Law. Later, in , the Council of Jerusalem addressed the circumcision controversy in early Christianity.

See also
 Christianity and Judaism
 Christian views on the Old Covenant
 Covenant theology
 Covenantal nomism
 Ten Commandments

References

External links
 Catholic Encyclopedia: Mosaic Legislation

Jewish law
Commandments
Torah
Jewish theology
Mosaic law in Christian theology
Covenants in the Hebrew Bible