[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sustainable Development Strategy in Canada

Sustainable Development Strategy for organizations in Canada  is about the Government of Canada finding ways to develop social, financial, and environmental resources that meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs in Canada.  A Sustainable Development Strategy for the organization needs to be developed that establishes the Sustainable Development goals and objectives set by the Auditor General Act of Canada and provides the written policies and procedures to achieve them.  Sustainable Development is based on responsible decision-making, which considers not only the economic benefits of development, but also the short-term and long-term, Canadian environment and environmental impacts.

Overview
All Canadians have a role to play in advancing Sustainable Development, including all levels of government, business and industry, civil society, community groups and citizens.
The importance of developing a balance between economic growth, social well-being, and the health of the environment is at the forefront of public opinion.  Canadians realize that a healthy environment is imperative for our long-term economic, social well-being and quality of life. The organization must have the ability to adopt innovative environmental practices and reduce their ecological footprint.  The organization must develop a sustainable future through various strategies, policies, programs, and operations.  A key pillar of the organization's approach to Sustainable Development should be to establish a Sustainable Development Strategy.  This strategy is an important tool to help guide the organization in systematically integrating the principles of Sustainable Development into their policies, programs, legislation, and operations.

Auditor General Act

In 1995, the Auditor General Act was amended to encourage stronger Sustainable Development performance by the Federal Government of Canada.

Mission statement

Sustainable Development is a key goal for public policy in Canada and should be made the foundation of the organization's approach to environmental management. This understanding should be reflected in the creation of a Mission Statement for the organization, which outlines its commitment to making Sustainable Development a reality in Canada.

Environmental Management System (EMS)

The organization should implement an Environmental Management System (EMS).  This systematic approach to dealing with the environmental aspects of an organization is a 'tool' that enables an organization to control the impact of its activities, products, and services on the natural environment. The ISO 14001 standard "Environmental management systems--Specification with guidance for use" is the standard within the ISO 14000 series that specifies the requirements of an EMS.

Environmental Management System Manual (EMSM)
The creation of an Environmental Management System Manual (EMSM)  is to provide the framework for the organization's EMS. It should identify the elements and procedures for all staff, relating to environmental management.

Environmental Management System Documentation
The organization should establish and maintain information in paper or electronic form, to describe the core elements of the management system and their interaction and provide direction to related documentation.

Environmental Management Program (EMP)
The organization requires an Environmental Management Program (EMP), which is developed for environmental aspects to map out the organization's course of action to reduce environmental impact and to turn words into actions.  An EMP must describe how targets will be achieved; the performance measures used to report on progress; identify personnel responsible for achieving these targets; and establish time frames for achievement. Generally, an EMP lists what is to be done, how it is to be done, who is going to do it, and how long it is going to take. At the end of every fiscal year, the EMPs are reported on and updated for the next year.  The development of an EMP is the key to fulfilling the organization's Sustainable Development strategy for developing and implementing an ISO comparable EMS. This initiative should include integrating environmental best practices into projects, programs, and processes, and strengthening existing environmental practices.

Commitment to Sustainable Development
The organization should focus on four key goals:
Reduce the effects of their operations on land, air, and water;
Programs should demonstrate sustainable service delivery;
All employees apply Sustainable Development in their jobs; and
Employ modern systems that support and maintain Sustainable Development.