[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bad Nenndorf interrogation centre

sibility for the abuse, and described the camp as a "bestial hole" which was "full of people who, unknown to him, were being brutally treated".  He testified that he had been sent one prisoner who was suffering from meningitis, but had been unable to obtain an ambulance to transport him to hospital.

The court martial dismissed three of the charges of professional neglect against Capt Smith before the conclusion of the trial.  It found him not guilty of the two counts of manslaughter or six of the eleven counts of professional neglect.  However, it found him guilty of five of the neglect charges, and he was sentenced to be Dismissed from Service.

Stephens
The final court martial was that of Lieutenant Colonel Robin Stephens, the commandant of No. 74 CSDIC, which opened in June 1948.  On the first day of proceedings, both counts of disgraceful conduct of a cruel kind were withdrawn, leaving only the counts of 'conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline', and failure in his duty as commandant.

Stephens was uncompromisingly blunt about the prisoners who had made accusations, declaring that "their motives are invariably foul, most of them are degenerates, most of them come diseased from V.D., many are chronic medical cases ... they are pathological liars, and the value of their Christian oath is therefore doubtful".  He told the court martial that he had instituted the same basic regime as had operated at Camp 020, a CSDIC facility in London which he had previously commanded with great success during the war.  Prisoners were to be treated firmly: "No chivalry.  No gossip.  No cigarettes ...  Figuratively, a spy in war should be at the point of a bayonet".  However, physical coercion was forbidden under any circumstances, as it was seen as ineffective: "Violence is taboo, for not only does it produce answers to please, but it lowers the standard of information".

Most of the case was heard behind closed doors due to security concerns.  The court martial concluded on 20 July 1948 with Stephens being found not guilty on all charges.

Closure of No. 74 CSDIC
Three months after the closure of No. 74 CSDIC at Bad Nenndorf, a new custom-built interrogation centre with cells for 30 men and 10 women was opened at Gütersloh.  Most of the interrogators were said to have served at Bad Nenndorf, causing disquiet in the government.  Foreign Office Minister Frank Pakenham demanded that "drastic methods" should not be employed.  However, the Army insisted that the standards applied in British prisons should not be applied to Army interrogation centres in Germany.  According to the German newspaper Die Zeit, the failings exposed at Bad Nenndorf resulted in the conditions of prisoners elsewhere in Germany being improved to the point that they were better treated than the civilian population.

Recent information
On 17 December 2005, the British newspaper The Guardian published an account of the Bad Nenndorf case, based on recently declassified files.  The report was followed up on 30 January 2006 by the Hamburg-based German broadcaster Norddeutscher Rundfunk (NDR), working on 800 pages of declassified documents that they received.  In its 3 April 2006 issue, the Guardian published pictures of the emaciated German prisoners held in Bad Nenndorf, calling it a "cold war torture camp".  The reports caused a brief political controversy in both Britain and Germany, with some commentators drawing explicit parallels with the more recent allegations of mistreatment of prisoners in the Iraq conflict and the war on terror.

On 29 July 2006, neo-Nazis held a rally at the site of the former interrogation centre.  A coalition of opponents organised a rally in protest, among them the local chapter of the German Trade Union Confederation (; DGB).  A DGB leaflet objects the attempt to "revise history".

Usage today

See also
 London Cage
 Rheinwiesenlager — allegations of mistreatment of prisoners
 Malmedy massacre trial — allegations of torture of prisoners
 Prisoner-of-war camp

References

External links
 
 

United Kingdom intelligence community
British World War II crimes
Germany–United Kingdom bilateral relations organisations
Allied occupation of Germany
Detention centers
Imprisonment and detention of women
Human rights abuses
Internment camps
Interrogations
Court-martial