[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Paxton

late 1960s, what concerned me was not the comparison with defeated France but the confident swagger of the Germans in the summer of 1940."

Today, the book is considered a historical classic and one of the best studies on France in the Vichy era. It is so influential that Richard Vinen said that his

It was published at a time when French historians and filmmakers were also exploring history under the Vichy regime, as in Marcel Ophüls' influential two-part documentary The Sorrow and the Pity (1969).

As an expert on the Vichy era, Paxton co-wrote Claude Chabrol's 1993 documentary The Eye of Vichy. In 1997 he testified at the trial of Vichy bureaucrat Maurice Papon.

Fascism 
Paxton has focused his work on exploring models and definition of fascism.

In his 1998 paper "The Five Stages of Fascism," he suggests that fascism cannot be defined solely by its ideology, since fascism is a complex political phenomenon rather than a relatively coherent body of doctrine like communism or socialism. Instead, he focuses on fascism's political context and functional development. The article identifies five paradigmatic stages of a fascist movement, although he notes that only Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy progressed through all five:
 Intellectual exploration, where disillusionment with popular democracy manifests itself in discussions of lost national vigor
 Rooting, where a fascist movement, aided by political deadlock and polarization, becomes a player on the national stage
 Arrival to power, where conservatives seeking to control rising leftist opposition invite fascists to share power
 Exercise of power, where the movement and its charismatic leader control the state in balance with state institutions such as the police and traditional elites such as the clergy and business magnates.
 Radicalization or entropy, where the state either becomes increasingly radical, as did Nazi Germany, or slips into traditional authoritarian rule, as did Fascist Italy.

In his 2004 book The Anatomy of Fascism, Paxton refines his five-stage model and puts forward the following definition for fascism: 
Fascism may be defined as a form of political behavior marked by obsessive preoccupation with community decline, humiliation, or victim-hood and by compensatory cults of unity, energy, and purity, in which a mass-based party of committed nationalist militants, working in uneasy but effective collaboration with traditional elites, abandons democratic liberties and pursues with redemptive violence and without ethical or legal restraints goals of internal cleansing and external expansion.

In 2021, Paxton wrote an op-ed for Newsweek in which he stated that he now believed Donald Trump was a fascist, after insisting for several years that he was instead a right-wing populist. Trump's incitement of the 2021 storming of the United States Capitol was the deciding factor in him changing his view.

Awards 
In 2009, the French government awarded Paxton the Legion d'honneur.

Personal life 
Paxton is an avid birdwatcher and a former president of the Linnaean Society of New York.