[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Salih ibn Mirdas

s Fatimid governor and sought Salih's military backing to uphold his rule. Salih continued to dwell in his tribe's desert encampment, and it is not known what he received in exchange for protecting Ibn Mihkan. A dispute soon arose between Salih and Ibn Mihkan, leading the former to besiege al-Rahba.

The hostilities came to an end following an agreement that stipulated Salih's marriage to Ibn Mihkan's daughter and Ibn Mihkan's relocation to Anah, which he would rule in addition to al-Rahba. When Anah's inhabitants revolted against Ibn Mihkan, Salih intervened to reassert his father-in-law's rule. Amid these developments, Ibn Mihkan was assassinated; contemporary chroniclers assume that Salih ordered his death. Salih proceeded to capture al-Rahba and proclaim his allegiance to the Fatimid caliph, al-Hakim. This marked "the first step in Salih's career and from which his ambition probably evolved", according to Zakkar. His capture of al-Rahba most likely boosted his prestige among the Kilab.

Supreme emir of the Banu Kilab
Between 1009 and 1012, the Kilab participated in the struggle for control of Aleppo between the emirate's ruler Mansur ibn Lu'lu' and its former rulers, the Hamdanids, and their regional backers. Twice the Kilab betrayed the Hamdanids and their allies, and in return, demanded from Mansur numerous pastures to breed their flocks and war horses. Instead, Mansur, who viewed the Kilab as a hindrance to his rule, strove to eliminate them by luring the tribesmen into a trap. To that end, on 27 May 1012, he invited them to a feast. Once the tribesmen entered his palace, the gates were locked and Mansur and his ghilmān (slave soldiers or pages; sing. ghulām) attacked them. Several were killed and the rest, including Salih, were imprisoned in the citadel of Aleppo. Afterward, the Kilabi emir Muqallid ibn Za'ida besieged the town of Kafartab to gain leverage with Mansur. This prompted the latter to move the Kilabi prisoners to facilities with better conditions in case of future peace negotiations with Muqallid. Upon hearing of Muqallid's death and his failed siege, Mansur returned the prisoners to the citadel's dungeons, where many among them, including some chieftains, were executed or died from torture or poor conditions. Salih was among those tortured, and was also forced to divorce his wife and cousin Tarud, who was famed for her beauty, so that Mansur could wed her. Zakkar writes that it is not known whether this was meant to humiliate Salih, "an energetic and bold" emir, or to establish marital ties with other elements of the Kilab. Mansur frequently threatened to execute Salih, who upon being informed of these threats, escaped the citadel. According to the reports of medieval chroniclers, Salih managed to cut one of his shackles and make a hole in his cell wall. Then, on the night of 3 July 1014, he jumped from the wall of the citadel with one shackle still attached to his leg, and hid in a drain pipe for the remainder of the night until joining his tribesmen at their encampment in Marj Dabiq. Zakkar questions the truth of this story, and asserts that it is likelier that Salih escaped through bribery or a friendly arrangement with a guard.

Salih's escape boosted Kilabi morale, and they assembled to offer him their allegiance. In the following days, the Kilab under Salih besieged Aleppo, but Mansur's forces were able to plunder their camp and capture fifty tribesmen. Buoyed by his victory, Mansur collected his army of ghilmān in Aleppo, along with local ruffians, Christians and Jews, and confronted Salih's forces on the outskirts of Aleppo. The Kilab routed their opponents, killing some 2,000 Aleppines in the process, and captured Mansur. Negotiations between Salih and Mansur's representatives ensued, concluding with an agreement that freed Mansur in return for the release of Salih's brothers, a ransom of 50,000 gold dinars, and the allotment of half of the Emirate of Aleppo's revenues to the Kilab. Salih was able to remarry Tarud and was also given Mansur's daughter to wed. Furthermore, Mansur recognized Salih as the supreme emir of the Kilab, formally investing him with authority and control over his tribesmen.

Establishment of Mirdasid emirate

Mesopotamian conquests and struggle for Aleppo