[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 40]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

Nature, now in
course of development.

"The horror that is inspired in human beings by that brutality is just
as much a part of Nature as the brutality itself," he said, and he
insisted that the supreme business of man, was to evolve a scheme of
life on a higher plane, wherein the weak shall not be forced to agonize
for the strong, so far as mankind can intervene to prevent it. Let man
follow the dictates of pity and generosity in his own soul. They would
never lead him astray. While Miss Du Prel laid the whole blame upon
natural law, the Professor impeached humanity. Men, he declared, cry out
against the order of things, which they, in a large measure, have
themselves created.

"But, good heavens! the whole plan of life is one of rapine. _We_ did
not fashion the spider to prey upon the fly, or the cat to play with the
wounded mouse. _We_ did not ordain that the strong should fall upon the
weak, and tear and torture them for their own benefit. Surely we are not
responsible for the brutalities of the animal creation."

"No, but we are responsible when we _imitate them_," said the Professor.

Miss Du Prel somewhat inconsequently attempted to defend such imitation,
on the ground that sacrifice is a law of life, a law of which she had
just been bitterly complaining. But at this, the Professor would only
laugh. His opponent indignantly cited scientific authority of the most
solemn and weighty kind; the Professor shook his head. Familiarity with
weighty scientific authorities had bred contempt.

"Vicarious sacrifice!" he exclaimed, with a sudden outbreak of the scorn
and impatience that Hadria had seen in him on one other occasion, "I
never heard a doctrine more insane, more immoral, or more suicidal!"

Miss Du Prel hugged herself in the thought of her long list of scouted
authorities. They had assured her that our care of the weak, by
interfering with the survival of the fittest, is injuring the race.

"Go down into the slums of our great cities, or to the pestilential
East, and there observe the survival of the fittest, undisturbed by
human knowledge or human pity," recommended the Professor.

Miss Du Prel failed to see how this proved anything more than bad
general conditions.

"It proves that however bad general conditions may be, _some_ wretches
will always survive; the 'fittest,' of course, to endure filth and
misery. Selection goes on without ceasing; but if the conditions are
bad, the surviving type will be miserable. Mere unaided natural
selection obviously cannot be trusted to produce a fine race."

Nothing would convince Miss Du Prel that the preservation of weakly
persons was not injurious to the community. To this the Professor
replied, that what is lost by their salvation is more than paid back by
the better conditions that secured it. The strong, he said, were
strengthened and enabled to retain their strength by that which saves
the lives of the weak.

"Besides, do you suppose a race could gain, in the long run, by defiance
of its best instincts? Never! If the laws of health in body and in mind
were at variance, leaving us a hard choice between physical and moral
disease, then indeed no despair could be too black. But all experience
and all insight testify to the exact opposite. Heavens, how
short-sighted people are! It is not the protection of the weak, but the
evil and stupid deeds that have made them so, that we have to thank for
the miseries of disease. And for our redemption--powers of the universe!
it is not to the cowardly sacrifice of the unfortunate that we must
trust, but to a more brotherly spirit of loyalty, a more generous
treatment of all who are defenceless, a more faithful holding together
among ourselves--weak and strong, favoured and luckless."

Miss Du Prel was silent for a moment. Her sympathy but not her hope had
been roused.

"I wish I could believe in your scheme of redemption," she said; "but,
alas! sacrifice has been the means of progress from the beginning of all
things, and so I fear it will be to the end."

"I don't know what it will be at the end," said the Professor, dryly;
"for the present, I oppose with the whole strength of my belief and my
conscience, the cowardly idea of surrendering individuals to the
ferocity of a jealous and angry power, in the hope of currying favour
for the rest. We might just as well set up national altars and sacrifice
victims, after the franker fashion of the ancients. Morally, the
principles are precisely the same."

"Scarcely; for _our_ object is to benefit humanity."

"And theirs. Poor humanity!" cried the Professor. "What crimes are we
not ready to commit in thy name!"

"That cannot be a crime which benefits mankind," argued Miss Du Prel.

"It is very certain that it cannot eventually benefit mankind, if it
_be_ a crime," he retorted.

"This sequence of ideas makes one dizzy!" exclaimed Hadria.

The Professor smiled. "Moreover," he added, "