[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Francis M. Drake

eral Frederick Steele's VII Army Corps to cross the river there and advance to a showdown with Major General Sterling Price at the subsequent Battle of Prairie D'Ane, April 10–12. There Steele routed the enemy, driving them southwest to the Confederate state capital-in-exile at Washington, Arkansas.

On April 15 the Union VII Corps advanced into Camden, Arkansas largely unopposed, in search of supplies, and Drake again showed his talent when he was assigned with just 5 companies of the 36th Iowa and two artillery pieces to hold open a critical crossroads ("Camden Crossroads") ten miles west of the city for 5 hours until early evening when the Frontier Division of General John Thayer caught up with Steele's advanced column. The Union VII Corps occupied Camden from 15–26 April. Up to that time, Camden was the Headquarters of Price's Confederate Army of Arkansas. Steele found insufficient rebel food stocks there, requiring him to dispatch forage trains and send supply trains to Pine Bluff. 80 miles northeast across desolate country. On 22 April 1864 a second such supply train was organized and, with 2nd Brigade commander McLean and the colonels of the 36th Iowa, 43rd Indiana and 77th Ohio all on the sick list, command of the 2nd Brigade devolved on Lieutenant Colonel Drake, who was ordered to take the brigade as escort for a 240-wagon supply train to Pine Bluff and to return with rations and other supplies. It was considered a high-risk but essential mission, as VII Corps had exhausted its rations and the troops at Camden were surviving on raw ears of corn or cornbread—if they were lucky. Departing with the train on April 23, Drake encamped 18 miles east of the city on the first afternoon. Drake's cavalry screen skirmished with Shelby's scouts along the way. On the second afternoon, a Sunday, Drake and the wagon train camped on the west bank of the nearly impassible Moro Bayou. Getting underway again before daylight on Monday, April 25, 1864, as the first of the train emerged from the rutted and soggy trail across the Moro, Drake's command was ambushed by some 7000 dismounted rebel cavalry under the command of General James Fagan at a lonely cross-roads known as Marks Mills. In this desperate fight that ended in hand-to-hand close quarters combat, Drake led a spirited defense and was severely wounded, finally falling from his horse due to lack of blood and was captured, along with the entire brigade, save a handful who managed to escape back to Union lines.

Despite the fearsome odds, the Federals held Fagan's command at bay for fully 5 hours, before two brigades under General Jo Shelby—including his "Iron Brigade"—held in reserve for four hours—finally charged into the Union left flank, encircling the Federals and cutting them off from reinforcements that were following some 20 miles to the west. Badly wounded by a Minie ball that struck his hip and broke into three large fragments that traveled into his leg and knee, Drake awoke after the battle to find General James Fagan standing over him. Fagan ensured that Drake was personally attended to by his own surgeon and a few days later Fagan provided an ambulance to transport Drake from a makeshift field hospital to the nearby home of a southern Doctor and his wife who provided more comfortable and personalized care. Fagan also took the chivalrous step of personally paroling Drake and a few other wounded 36th Iowa officers so they could return to Union lines at Little Rock for proper medical treatment. This was despite Ulysses S. Grant's recent April 17, 1864 ban on prisoner exchanges with the Confederates. Meanwhile, some 1200 men of his brigade were captured at Marks' Mills and force-marched to the notorious prison stockade at Camp Ford, Tyler, Texas where they would remain in horrid conditions until late February 1865. Upon recovering from his wound at his home in Blakesburg, Iowa, Drake returned to Little Rock on crutches. He was appointed President of the Military Commission of Arkansas—then the most powerful military court in the state.