[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jaime Correa (architect)

ability Module for the SmartCode. In a New Towns article, Correa was characterized as a person who "… approaches each day's task with the weight of the world on his shoulders then unburdens himself by sharing his discoveries with an engaging demeanor that seeks to make you both friend and follower."

Awards
Correa has been widely recognized. He has been the recipient of the Faculty of the Year Award at the Master in Real Estate Development, the Wooddrow W. Wilkins Award for Outstanding Teaching, and the Excellence in Civic Engagement Award at the University of Miami. He is also the recipient of the Miami Training Mentorship Recognition Award from the Climate Reality Corps under the tutelage of Former Vice-President Al Gore. He received the bi-annual 2014 Charles A. Barrett Memorial Award has received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the South Florida Chapter of the American Institute of Architects for his work as an Urban Designer; he was named a "Sustainability Icon" by Climate Culture International; he received a Point of Light Award from the State of Florida for his reconstruction work with Team Punta Gorda in Punta Gorda, Florida.  

His firm was selected to participate in the New Urbanism Gulf-Coast Reconstruction Charrette after Hurricane Katrina. He is one of the 16 architects and town planners published by Peter Katz in his seminal book: "The New Urbanism: toward an architecture of community"; he is also the recipient of numerous urban planning and architectural awards stretching four continents, including: a Chinese Government Award, the first place at the Marina de Cope competition in Spain, an Honorable Mention shared with Roberto Behar at the Williamsburg Competition; a Progressive Architecture citation for his redevelopment work in Riviera Beach with Mark Schimmenti and his former partners at Dover Kohl; a shared award with OBM International in the International Cities Competition in Dubai for his design leadership and contribution to the new town of The Wave in Oman; a citation to represent the United States in the Bienal de Arquitectura in Chile. Jaime Correa has lectured to students at the Bauhaus/Dessau, Harvard, Notre Dame, MIT, Tecnologico de Monterrey in Querétaro, Mexico, and in Argentina, Italy, Peru, Guatemala, and Colombia.

Architecture firm
Correa's professional practice includes the design, research, and land use planning of several hundred Inner City Neighborhoods, New Towns, Districts, Corridors, Regions, Blocks, Streets, University Campuses, Informal Urban Areas (shanty towns), Public Spaces, Public Art, etc.

Jaime Correa and Associates, his professional firm in Miami, is a collaborative practice involved in urban design, town planning, sustainability, public civic art, and architectural design projects of many types and scales.

The firm celebrates the simplicity of American life, the beauty of rational and metaphysical systems of representation, the uniqueness of place, the engagement of history, the evolution of culture, the distinctiveness of world geographies, the beauty of nature, our own human experience, the potentialities of contemporary and appropriate technologies in both practical and academic arenas, alternative energy, the everyday, and the end of unbridled globalization. His latest professional work includes: a research series on urban evacuation and adaptation, colossal projects for the forthcoming climate disruption, public space interventions in the City of Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, the redevelopment of an Industrial District in Miami, eight mini-skyscrapers in Medellin, urban design advisory for Coral Gables, Florida, charrette collaborations in Coral Springs, Florida, and the North End of West Palm Beach, Florida, urban "letterscapes", various collaborations in Central and South America, including for the towns of Cayala and El Naranjo, in Guatemala and La Serena, in Chile, and the master planning and implementation of "The Wave", a new town with 50,000 residents in Muscat, Oman in collaboration with OBM International and partners around the world.

The firm is currently engaged in a new type of urban design practice focused on social innovations, bottom-up urbanism, the creation of real estate value through morphogenetic disruptions, generative codes, self-organization and its interconnection with structured and unstructured information. His projects explore: incremental master planning, super-graphics and the physical representation of information in urban areas, informal urbanism, morphogenesis, colossal refugee camps, tiny gap-housing, self-organizing redevelopment, public space design, big data mining, the Internet of Things, and sea-level-rise adaptation, and evacuation.