[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Aung San Suu Kyi

urrent foreign ministers

Notes

References

Bibliography

 Miller, J. E. (2001). Who's Who in Contemporary Women's Writing. Routledge.
 Reid, R., Grosberg, M. (2005). Myanmar (Burma). Lonely Planet. .
 Stewart, Whitney (1997). Aung San Suu Kyi: Fearless Voice of Burma. Twenty-First Century Books. .

Further reading
 Combs, Daniel. Until the World Shatters: Truth, Lies, and the Looting of Myanmar (2021). 
 
 Aung San Suu Kyi (Modern Peacemakers) (2007) by Judy L. Hasday, 
 The Lady: Aung San Suu Kyi: Nobel Laureate and Burma's Prisoner (2002) by Barbara Victor, , or 1998 hardcover: 
 The Lady and the Peacock: The Life of Aung San Suu Kyi (2012) by Peter Popham, 
 Perfect Hostage: A Life of Aung San Suu Kyi (2007) by Justin Wintle, 
 Tyrants: The World's 20 Worst Living Dictators (2006) by David Wallechinsky, 
 Aung San Suu Kyi (Trailblazers of the Modern World) (2004) by William Thomas, 
 No Logo: No Space, No Choice, No Jobs (2002) by Naomi Klein 
 Mental culture in Burmese crisis politics: Aung San Suu Kyi and the National League for Democracy (ILCAA Study of Languages and Cultures of Asia and Africa Monograph Series) (1999) by Gustaaf Houtman, 
 Aung San Suu Kyi: Standing Up for Democracy in Burma (Women Changing the World) (1998) by Bettina Ling 
 Prisoner for Peace: Aung San Suu Kyi and Burma's Struggle for Democracy (Champions of Freedom Series) (1994) by John Parenteau, 
 Des femmes prix Nobel de Marie Curie à Aung San Suu Kyi, 1903–1991 (1992) by Charlotte Kerner, Nicole Casanova, Gidske Anderson, 
 Aung San Suu Kyi, towards a new freedom (1998) by Chin Geok Ang 
 Aung San Suu Kyi's struggle: Its principles and strategy (1997) by Mikio Oishi 
 Finding George Orwell in Burma (2004) by Emma Larkin 
 Character Is Destiny: Inspiring Stories Every Young Person Should Know and Every Adult Should Remember (2005) by John McCain, Mark Salter. Random House 
 
 Under the Dragon: A Journey Through Burma (1998/2010) by Rory MacLean

External links

 Aung San Suu Kyi's website (Site appears to be inactive. Last posting was in July 2014)
 
 
 
 
 

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

 
Prime Ministers of Myanmar
21st-century women prime ministers
1945 births
20th-century Burmese women writers
20th-century Burmese writers
21st-century Burmese politicians
21st-century Burmese women politicians
21st-century Burmese women writers
21st-century Burmese writers
Alumni of SOAS University of London
Alumni of St Hugh's College, Oxford
Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by Myanmar
Buddhist pacifists
Burmese activists
Burmese democracy activists
Burmese human rights activists
Burmese Nobel laureates
Burmese pacifists
Burmese prisoners and detainees
Burmese revolutionaries
Burmese socialists
Burmese Theravada Buddhists
Burmese women activists
Burmese women diplomats
Burmese women in politics
Civil rights activists
Congressional Gold Medal recipients
Family of Aung San
Fellows of St Hugh's College, Oxford
Fellows of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh
Female foreign ministers
Female heads of government
Foreign ministers of Myanmar
Gandhians
Heads of government who were later imprisoned
Honorary Companions of the Order of Australia
International Simón Bolívar Prize recipients
Lady Shri Ram College alumni
Leaders ousted by a coup
Living people
Members of Pyithu Hluttaw
National League for Democracy politicians
Nobel Peace Prize laureates
Nonviolence advocates
Olof Palme Prize laureates
Activists from Yangon
Politicians from Yangon
People stripped of honorary degrees
Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients
Prisoners and detainees of Myanmar
Recipients of the Four Freedoms Award
Sakharov Prize laureates
Women civil rights activists
Women government ministers of Myanmar
Women Nobel laureates
Women opposition leaders