[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# SBInet

ficient for targets beyond 3.1 miles, and the stylus-controlled laptops mounted on moving vehicles were not rugged enough and were difficult to use.  These findings were against the prototype system known as "Project 28".  They were all addressed before the final production system was ready in 2010.

The contract 
SBInet was controlled by an indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity contract extending through September 30, 2009, with three one-year option periods. The only commitment that DHS was to pay Project 28, a 28-mile pilot section of SBInet in the Tucson sector of the Arizona-Mexico border.  The cost of this pilot section was estimated at $67 million.  The value of Boeing's three-year contract to build SBInet across both the northern and southern borders was estimated by various sources at various times to be between $2 billion and $8 billion.

The contract included what DHS called "off-ramps" – milestones where DHS could discontinue the project if it found Boeing's work unacceptable.  The contract allowed DHS to acquire certain solutions from a vendor besides Boeing.

The U.S. Army was to conduct an independent assessment of SBInet's interim operating capabilities at the end of the project's first initiative.

Objectives 

The goal of SBInet was to secure the border by fulfilling these main objectives:

 deter potential illegal border crossers from making the attempt
 predict illegal border activities before they occur
 detect entries when they occur
 identify what the entry is
 classify the threat level of the entry before interdiction
 track the movements of illegal entrants
 provide a means to effectively and efficiently respond to entries
 bring interdictions to an appropriate resolution (e.g., identity checks, judicial and administrative actions, deportations, and so forth)

In addition, SBInet sought to provide a "common operating picture" of the border environment that could be shared with DHS components and federal, state, and local partners to provide comprehensive situational awareness, improving interoperability.  The SBInet contract gave Boeing full responsibility for developing, deploying, and maintaining a system that was able to accomplish these goals.

Requirements 

Boeing was required to design, develop, test, integrate, deploy, document and maintain the optimum mix of personnel, technology, infrastructure, and response capability to defend 6,000 miles of border.  Boeing was required to manage every aspect of the implementation of SBInet; its job even included less intuitive tasks, such as recommending new paradigms for the way Border Patrol Agents operated, training maintenance personnel to repair their products, and guiding construction of facilities to house additional CBP offices required for SBInet.  Additionally, Boeing was required to integrate the program into previously existing infrastructure and equipment systems wherever possible.  The pilot section of SBInet was required to be completed and fully operational eight months from the contract signing.  , Boeing had missed its June 13 deadline for delivery of the pilot section.

Oversight 
The SBInet Program Management Office (PMO), led by the SBInet Program Manager, was responsible for conducting oversight activities such as testing the system's performance in improving the security of the border, examining Boeing's designs to predict and prevent deficiencies, and monitoring the financial efficiency of the project.  The PMO included more than two hundred subject matter experts in engineering, program management, budget control, Border Patrol operations, port of entry operations, environmental management, logistics, risk management, and more.  Additionally, the PMO engaged the U.S. Army's test and evaluation experts to provide independent evaluation services, to include operational assessments and large-scale operational testing.  The PMO was criticized for inadequate staffing, which impeded its effectiveness in the early months of the program.  As a result, the PMO rapidly expanded the size and quality of its staff, enabling it to intensify oversight operations.

Technology

Tower system
Towers were meant to be set up along the border, with varying surveillance and communications equipment depending on the climate, terrain, population density, and other factors.  Towers were slated to include radar, long-range cameras, broadband wireless access points, thermal imaging capabilities, and motion detectors.  SBInet was meant to also include some ground sensors for seismic detection as well.