[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alvarion

Alvarion Technologies is a global provider of autonomous Wi-Fi networks designed with self-organizing capabilities for carrier-grade Wi-Fi, enterprise connectivity, smart city planning, smart hospitality, connected campuses, and connected events.

History

Alvarion was originally incorporated as BreezeCOM Ltd. in September 1992. In March 2000, BreezeCOM had an initial public offering, selling 5 million shares of its common stock at a price of $20 per share. BreezeCOM's shares were listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol BRZE.

In August 2001, BreezeCOM merged with another Israeli company, Floware Wireless Systems Ltd. (NASDAQ: FLRE), which was founded in 1993, changing its name to Alvarion.

In April 2003, Alvarion acquired InnoWave ECI Wireless Systems Ltd, from ECI Telecom.

In July 2003, Alvarion signed a strategic partnership agreement with Intel to co-develop WiMAX based Broadband wireless access systems, using Intel's WiMAX chips.

In December 2004, Alvarion acquired interWAVE Communications International (NASDAQ: IWAV) of Mountain View, California, which expanded the company's product range into the mobile GSM equipment market and provided new expertise in mobile systems. Most of the interWAVE operations became Alvarion's Cellular Mobile business unit, which was sold to LGC Wireless, Inc. in November 2006.

In February 2009, Alvarion announced that it was hired by Orange Botswana for WiMAX deployment, initially to cover Botswana’s two largest cities Gaborone and Francistown.

In November 2009, Alvarion started deploying a WiMAX wireless broadband network for the Australian ISP Adam Internet across metropolitan Adelaide, as a part of Australian government's Broadband Guarantee Program.

In November 2011, Alvarion acquired Wavion, a provider of outdoor Wi-Fi applications for metro and rural areas with deployments in more than 75 countries. This acquisition is part of Alvarion's strategic plan for shifting its primary focus from WiMAX-based radio access network to becoming a multi-technology wireless broadband solution provider.

In February 2013, Alvarion's BWA division (Carrier licensed) was acquired by Telrad Networks.

In July 2013, Alvarion filed for bankruptcy.

In September 2013 Alvarion was bought by Intechnology plc, owned by Peter Wilkinson, as a strategic investment. After the acquisition, Alvarion and Intechnology WiFi, together with the City of Edinburgh Council, announced the roll-out of an outdoor, free Wi-Fi service in Edinburgh city centre – providing residents and visitors access to fast internet connectivity.

In February 2015, Alvarion laid off a third of its work force due to a change of strategy.

in 2016 Alvarion was acquired by SuperCom, an electronic identity company that provides monitoring services for the e-Government, Public Safety, Health Care, and Finance sectors as part of its expansion into Secure IoT solutions.

Products and technology

Alvarion Technologies provides Wi-Fi solutions for Smart Cities, mobile carriers, enterprises, smart hospitality, campuses, and High-Density Events. It was one of the first companies to produce IEEE 802.11 wireless LAN equipment and made some contributions to the development of the IEEE 802.11 standard. In collaboration with the Swedish Space Corporation and using its own BreezeNET DS.11 product, it also claims to hold a World record of the longest Wireless LAN link ever achieved –  from ground to a weather balloon (although it had been heavily amplified, used a huge dish antenna, and had an automatic tracking system). This record is not found in The Guinness Book of Records, however.

Alvarion is also active in the development of the IEEE 802.16x WiMAX standards and offers mobile WiMAX systems.

Following the acquisition of Wavion Wireless in 2011 Alvarion has been focused on delivering Wi-Fi-based platforms supporting the latest IEEE 802.11ac standard. The first Wi-Fi platform was WBS supporting IEEE 802.11g with the first beamforming technology. Alvarion developed a noise mitigation algorithm to provide continuous service in a noisy environment.

Following was the WBSn platform compliant with the IEEE 802.11n standard and holding the International Protection Marking of IP68, making it suitable for extreme outdoor conditions.

In 2016 Alvarion launched the WBSac series of products of indoor and outdoor access points compliant with IEEE 802.11ac and backwards-compatible with 802.11a/b/g/n.

Commercial development
In November 2010, Alvarion was chosen by the telecommunication company 4G Africa to deploy 4G network in Cameroon. 4G Africa has the main goal to reduce digital divide by providing selected Sub-Sahara countries with the newly established 4G technology.