[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# St. Barnabas' Episcopal Church, Leeland

g) and with pistol in hand, they walked together to Boucher's horse. Both men were allowed to leave without harm. Boucher then fled to England.

Nineteenth Century
In the 1850s, the church was renovated and Victorianized, with stained glass windows replacing the original colonial clear glass lights.

Recent times
In 1971, this "new Brick Church," was in need of repair and was carefully and authentically restored to its original colonial form as built by Lowndes including clear windows along with the addition of a new chapel under the direction of architect, Walter Macomber. The restored church was dedicated in October 1974.

 St. Barnabas Church is an active parish in the Episcopal Diocese of Washington. Beginning January 15, 2015, the Rector is the Rev. Robyn E Franklin-Vaughn.

Queen Anne School
As part of the wave of private schools being founded throughout the south between 1955 and 1976, Queen Anne School was founded at St. Barnabas' Church.  Queen Anne was a private, Episcopal-affiliated, co-educational day school for grades 7-12, located on a  campus adjacent to the new Brick Church. The school functioned as an independent educational institution, certified by the Association of Independent Maryland and DC Schools.  The school closed after the 2010-2011 school year and the  campus was subsequently leased and operated by Imagine Schools.

Belt Woods

Upon his death in 1959, W. Seton Belt, former treasurer of St. Barnabas, bequeathed a sizable trust to the church, including 3,200 acres on six farms including Belt Woods, stipulating that the other farms should be sold to benefit the church but "the trees on his home farm should never be cut down and his 624-acre home farm never sold."      In 1976, the trustees petitioned the court and were granted a reinterpretation of the 1944 will that permitted them to sell and log the farm.

The oaks of the "North Woods", were logged in 1981 by a New Jersey firm.   They harvested 563 old-growth oak and tulip trees for veneer.    in 1994, the trust sold 109 acres containing the oldest trees to the state of Maryland as a nature preserve for $628,000.

Art
The first recorded public art commission in the American colonies, The Last Supper by Gustavus Hesselius, commissioned in October 1721 is displayed on the choir gallery of the church. Before this, most painting in the new world had been portraits. The Last Supper'' was the first significant American painting to depict a scene.

The painting which measures  by 117 1/2 inches was commissioned for the first Brick Church and remained there until the present structure was built. It disappeared during the construction of the new Brick Church and did not surface again until it was discovered in a private collection in 1848 or 1914, when Charles Henry Hart identified it, depending on which source one follows.

It was on loan by Rose Neel Warrington for a period at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and at the American Swedish Historical Museum as well as the Exhibition of Early American Paintings at the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences in 1917 and the Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts.

The painting was willed once again to St. Barnabas upon Warrington's death.

See also

 Episcopal Diocese of Washington
 List of post 1692 Anglican parishes in the Province of Maryland

References

External links
St. Barnabas' Episcopal Church, Leeland website

Churches in Prince George's County, Maryland
Episcopal church buildings in Maryland
Anglican parishes in the Province of Maryland
Religious organizations established in 1704
18th-century Episcopal church buildings
Landmarks in Maryland
Historic American Buildings Survey in Maryland
1704 establishments in Maryland