[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Guibord case

court costs in the Quebec courts and therefore had a legitimate interest in the litigation.  In an interim decision in 1873, the Judicial Committee gave the Institut standing to carry the appeal, without prejudice to the church officials' right to challenge the standing at the hearing of the appeal.

Decision: Appeal Allowed 
The Judicial Committee heard the appeal in the early summer of 1874, devoting seven sitting days to the hearing.  The Institut was represented by Mr Doutre, Q.C., of the Quebec Bar, and Mr Bompas, of the English Bar.  The church officials were represented by Mr Matthews, Q.C., and Mr Westlake, Q.C., both of the English Bar.  On 21 November 1874, the Judicial Committee gave its decision, allowing the appeal and ordering the church officials to provide a burial for the deceased in the area of the cemetery reserved for Roman Catholics.

The judgment of the Committee was given by Sir Robert Phillimore, a noted expert in ecclesiastical law in England.  He addressed the various procedural issues which had been raised by the case, beginning by noting that the church officials had not pressed their objections to the Institut's standing to carry on the appeal, since the Institut was Brown's universal legatee and therefore had an interest in having the order to pay costs overturned.  He also confirmed that the Committee did not think the argument for recusation of the Queen's Bench judges could be sustained.  As well, he ruled that the original writ for mandamus was in proper form and gave the court sufficient discretion to craft the remedy sought.

Turning to the merits of the appeal, Phillimore J. declined to rule on the precise status of the Roman Catholic Church in Quebec, such as whether it should be considered an established church, and also declined to rule on whether the civil courts of Quebec retained the jurisdiction over the church which the courts of New France had held before the Conquest.  Instead, he based his decision on the principle that even if churches are merely voluntary and private organisations, the members of church are entitled to have the church administered according to the church's own internal laws and rules. In this case, the issue was whether the deceased had forfeited the right to ecclesiastical burial according to the church's own internal laws.

Phillimore J. then reviewed the pre-Conquest Quebec Ritual dealing with refusal of ecclesiastical burial.  The three possibilities under the Ritual cited by counsel for the church officials in support of the refusal were that Guibord had been excommunicated as a result of his membership in the Institut;  that he had failed to take communion at Easter-tide;  and that he was a "pecheur public" as a result of belonging to the Institut.  Phillimore J. ruled that to come under the category of  excommunication, it would have been necessary for the Bishop of Montreal to excommunicate Guibord by name.  Phillimore J. acknowledged that such an action was solely within the power of the Bishop, and if it had occurred, would not have been reviewable by the courts.  However, the evidence showed that there had been no such explicit excommunication of Guibord.  Phillimore J. also dismissed the argument based on Guibord's failure to take Easter communion since Guibord had sought to partake of the sacrament, but the church had denied him because of his membership in the Institut.

Finally, Phillimore J. reviewed the category of a "pecheur public," which was defined in the Ritual by reference to activities such as prostitution and usury.  Counsel for the church officials argued that this category was very broad, and could include any activities which the Bishop defined to be public sins.  Phillimore J. rejected that interpretation of the Ritual and concluded that while it might be broadened beyond the specific examples of public sinners given in the Ritual, it could not be expanded indefinitely by the Bishop. The Bishop could not unilaterally dispense with the application of the general ecclesiastical law and prohibit ecclesiastical burial of a parishioner on whatever grounds the Bishop personally thought sufficient.  Phillimore J. held that there was no indication in the record that the members of the Roman Catholic Church in Quebec had at any time consented to such an expansion of the Bishop's authority. Phillimore J. concluded that Guibord had not been a "pécheur public" as defined by the Ritual and so the church officials did not have the power under their own Ritual to deny him ecclesiastical burial.