[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Armenian nationalism

holarly scenarios that there was a Proto-Armenian component in Urartu, and that the early Armenians were the bona fide cultural heirs to Urartu, but the essentialist view of Armenian nationhood that simply equates Urartu with Armenia cannot be sustained (Kohl and Tsetskhladze 1995).

Russian Armenia

In the Russian Empire, attempts were made to reduce the powers and privileges of Etchmiadzin, to influence the election of the Catholicos, and the study of Armenian history and culture was actively discouraged. In the Ottoman Empire, subjects such as the history of Armenia were banned at Armenian schools. In response, such subjects often continued to be taught in secret, creating further suspicion in the eyes of the Ottoman authorities. Images that depicted scenes from Armenian history were forbidden to be sold or be displayed in public. Armenian newspapers also began to be either closed down or to be heavily censored. In the 1890s many Armenian schools were closed down, and in 1893 the "General Union of Armenian Schools" was abolished. Many teachers at Armenian schools were specifically targeted and killed in Ottoman Empire during the Hamidian massacre.

Armenian genocide

The fate of the Armenians took a worse course within the Ottoman Empire, with World War I followed by the Armenian genocide, in which up to 1,500,000 Armenians were killed. Following World War I, the Armenians not scattered in the Armenian diaspora found themselves after the fall of the short-lived Democratic Republic of Armenia reduced to a republic within the Soviet Union, the Armenian SSR.

Modern times and anti-Turkism
A Historic Armenia was advocated by the Armenian Revolutionary Federation during Soviet times, which would incorporate Nakhchivan in Azerbaijan, and  Eastern Turkey (western parts of Armenian Highland). According to Suny, Armenian nationalism in the 20th century emphasized the "ancient origin of the Armenians", and consequently embraced the Armenian hypothesis of Indo-European origins forwarded by Soviet scholars in the 1980s. During Soviet times, Armenian nationalism within Soviet Armenia was distinguished from other nationalisms of peoples absorbed into the Soviet Union, such as Georgian, Ukrainian or Estonian, in that it did not direct itself against the dominant Russians, but continued to focus on the traditional enemy, the Turks, and was consequently subtly encouraged by the communist government. For example, Saparov points out that anti-Turkism was the major direction and driving force for Armenian nationalism in Soviet Armenia. According to Ghulyan, anti-Turkism, together with the idea of the ancient origins (autochthony) of the Armenians, continued to remain as an important direction of Armenian nationalism and its various reflections in modern day Armenia.

Armenian nationalism has notably been opposed to Turkish nationalism. According to Brannen, to the Armenian diasporic communities in the United States and Canada, historical memory of the Armenian genocide carried out by Ottoman Turks in April 1915 had become a focus around which formation of Armenian identity takes place. Armenian diasporic nationalism has a strong nostalgic component for a lost time and place, most prominently symbolized by Mount Ararat which, although visible from Yerevan, lies within Turkish territory.

Parties

Current
Armenian Democratic Liberal Party (1921–present)
Armenian Revolutionary Federation (1890-present)
Mighty Fatherland (1999–present)
Hayazn (2009–present)
Heritage (2012–present)
National Revival (2013–present)
Republican Party of Armenia (1990–present)
Sasna Tsrer Pan-Armenian Party (2018–present)
Social Democrat Hunchakian Party (1887–present)
Union for National Self-Determination (1987–present)
United Liberal National Party (2007–present)
Adequate Party (2019-present)

Former
Armenakan Party (1885–1921)
National United Party (1966–1987)
Pan-Armenian National Movement (1988–2013)
Dignity, Democracy, Motherland (2003)

See also
Anti-Azerbaijani sentiment in Armenia
Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia
Nairi (Armenian usages)
Nationalism and ancient history
Rise of nationalism under the Ottoman Empire
Tseghakronism
United Armenia

References

See also 
Eduard L. Danielian, "The Historical Background to the Armenian State Political Doctrine," 279-286 in Nicholas Wade, Armenian Perspectives (Surrey, UK, 1997)
Ronald Grigor Suny, Looking toward Ararat: Armenia in modern history, Indiana University Press, 1993, .
Astourian S.H., 'In search of their forefathers: National identity and the historiography and politics of Armenian and Azerbaijani ethnogeneses' in : Schwartz D.V., Panossian R. (eds.), Nationalism and history: the politics of nation building in post-Soviet Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, University of Toronto Centre for Russian and East European Studies (1994), pp- 41-94.

External links
Turkey and Armenia A Conversation with Elif Shafak

 
Nationalism
Politics of Armenia
Foreign relations of Armenia