[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mary Maverick

Mary Ann Adams Maverick (March 16, 1818 – February 24, 1898), was an early Texas pioneer and author of memoirs which form an important source of information about daily life in and around San Antonio during the Republic of Texas period through the American Civil War.

Early life

Mary Ann Adams was born in Tuscaloosa County, Alabama, to William Lewis Adams, a lawyer, and Agatha Strother (Lewis) Adams.  Her maternal grandmother was a cousin of James Madison, while her father's family had founded Lynchburg, Virginia.  Her parents lived along the James River in Virginia, where her father exported flour and tobacco.  During the War of 1812 her father left Virginia for what is now Alabama and bought a plantation near the site of Tuscaloosa.  While purchasing supplies in Mobile, Robert Adams answered Andrew Jackson's call for volunteers to help defend New Orleans and raised a company which he led at the  Battle of New Orleans.  In 1816, her mother came to live permanently in Alabama as well.

In Alabama, Robert Adams practiced law, and in 1827 he served as an agent of U.S. Treasury Department.  He died in June 1827, leaving his widow to raise their six surviving children, all under the age of 12.  Mary attended boarding school in Tuscaloosa to meet her father's wish that his children be appropriately educated.

On August 4, 1836, Mary Adams married Samuel Augustus Maverick, a Yale graduate who had been the Alamo garrison's delegate to the Convention of 1836 declaring Texas' independence from Mexico.  Sam Maverick sold his Alabama plantation at the beginning of 1837, and Mary Maverick accompanied her husband to New Orleans so that he could conduct business and be closer to news of Texas.  While she was in New Orleans, her brother William Adams left for Texas.  In March 1837, she and her husband visited his father in South Carolina, where they refused the elder Maverick's gift of his plantation.  On May 14, 1837, she gave birth to her first child, Samuel Maverick, Jr. in South Carolina.

Establishment in San Antonio

In October 1837, Mary Maverick, her brother, son, and seven slaves left South Carolina.  After a brief stop in Tuscaloosa, they left for the Republic of Texas on December 7, accompanied by her fifteen-year-old brother, Robert Adams, and three additional slaves.  The party crossed into Texas near New Year's Day 1838.  On February 4, they rented rooms at the home of George Sutherland, and for four months Maverick remained there while her husband continued on to San Antonio.

Maverick and the rest of her party reached San Antonio on June 15, 1838.  In her memoirs, she claims to have been the first U.S.-born female to settle in San Antonio, but letters to her mother mentioned another American lady, married to an Irishman, who died shortly after the Mavericks arrived.  The family rented rooms at the same home where her brother William resided.

Shortly after moving into a new home along the San Antonio River, Maverick gave birth to her second child, Lewis Antonio Maverick, who became the first Anglo-American child to be born in and grow up in San Antonio.  During the next few years, more Anglo families moved to San Antonio.  Her brothers returned to Alabama, but William came back to Texas in 1839 with another brother, Andrew, to begin farming. Mary was often left alone, as her husband spent months traveling for business or combing the Texas wilderness on surveying missions.