[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2007 Micronesian presidential election

o Weno, the capital island of Chuuk State. The next year, Mori re-entered the field of politics as Chuuk's four year representative to the Micronesian Congress. In that Congress, he served as the Vice Chairman of the Committee on External Affairs and held membership in a handful of other committees.

Alik L. Alik had been involved in government and politics since the start of his career by interning for the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (TTPI) within the Department of Education. Shortly after his time with the government, he went on to University of Hawaii Law School – Paralegal Program. Upon completing the two-year program in 1984, he was immediately hired by the FSM Supreme Court to be a law clerk. In the Department of External Affairs hired him as a Foreign Service Officer and was soon promoted to Deputy Chief in the Division of South Pacific Affairs. In 1989 he became Micronesia's first ambassador to Fiji and to most of the island nations within the south Pacific and held the post for the next nine years. As the ambassador to Fiji, Alik was also associated to Israel, Tonga, Nauru, Kiribati, Samoa, Tuvalu, Solomon Islands and Vanuatu. In 1992, he earned the title Dean of the Diplomatic Corp of Fiji. In 1998 Alik was again appointed to represent the nation, as Micronesia's Ambassador to Japan. He again was associated with various nations in Asia, specifically; China, South Korea, India, Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore. In 2003, Senator Alik joined electoral politics and won the State of Kosrae Congressional seat and was also elected to be the chairman of the committee on Resource and Development. He was also a  member of the committees of Judiciary & Governmental Operations and External Affairs. Senator Alik also held the chairmanship for the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs.

Joseph Urusemal received his Bachelor of Arts degree in Administration of Justice in 1976 and went to work for the Jackson County Department of Correction. He worked for the government of Jackson County for about six years until he returned to Micronesia in 1982. Upon his arrival to Micronesia, he worked with the State Department of Education as a teacher and counselor at the Outer Islands High School. During his tenure, he served on the Education Steering Committee where he was a key player in establishing Yap's State Education Five Year Plan. Urusemal was elected as Yap State's representative to the Fifth Congress of Micronesia. He also held membership on the following committees; Health Education and Social Affairs; Resources and Development; and External Affairs. Urusemal held his seat in the next Congress until he was selected to be the Floor Leader of the Seventh Micronesian Congress. He was also a member on the following Standing Committees; Health, Education, and Social Affairs; Resources and Development; Transportation and Communication; and Judiciary and Governmental Operations. During the next five congresses, Urusemal held his role as Floor Leader of the Congress and his membership on the same four Standing Committees. Joseph Urusemal was the Vice Chairman of the Joint Committee on Compact Economic Negotiations and was the Chairman of the Working Group. During his tenure in Congress, Urusemal also served as the Secretary General for the National Group to the Asia-Pacific Parliamentarians' Union. On May 11, 2003, Joseph J. Urusemal was seated as the Sixth President of Micronesia.

Election Result 
117,977 people were registered to vote in the congressional election however, only 39,067 votes were cast. Despite the exceptionally low turnout, Freedom House claims that it hardly affects the results of the congressional election, which directly affects the Presidential election, due to Micronesia's high freedom rating. Micronesia is ranked as a 1 on Freedom Houses scale of 1 being most free and 7 being the least. They are also ranked 1 in terms of civil liberties and political rights. Manny Mori won the Presidency while Alik L. Alik won the Vice Presidency. There are no public records in regards to the vote distribution however, Jack Corbett of the University of Southampton speculates that Mori won the Presidency due to his experience in business. It is for the same reason that Alik was elected Vice President, because he has a great deal of international experience. Being a small nation, Micronesia has a great desire to be more involved with the global marketplace and wanted a leader with experience in that area to drive them forward. Mori also gained a lot of popularity because it was the first time that his state, Chuuk which consists of 16 islands, approached the election with a unified delegation and support for Mori.

References

External links
Chuuk's Manny Mori New FSM President

Politics of the Federated States of Micronesia
2007 elections in Oceania