[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Islamic Fiqh Academy

amic scholars.

Member states' representatives regularly participate in the Academy's annual conference and events, in addition to the hundreds of researchers, experts and scholars, from Member and non-Member states, who contribute to its annual conference and various seminars.

Mission and Purpose 

In its statute and brochure, the Academy defines its mission as follows:
The Academy seeks to present Sharia in a moderate manner, emphasizing its merits and its full capacity to deal with the problems and issues of life as well as its capacity to help mankind to achieve happiness, stability, peace, security, and safety in this life and beyond. This mission is based on a comprehensive and integrated understanding of the Islamic religion, its foundations, its sources, its objectives, its principles, and its provisions.

As for its purpose, the Academy states:

The Fiqh Academy aims at becoming the world’s leading jurisprudential reference to which turn the countries of Islamic world and the Muslim communities in order to clarify the positions of Shariah on issues of concern to Muslims and to provide appropriate solutions to the problems of contemporary life, derived from the Holy Qur’an, the noble prophetic Sunnah and the rich Islamic heritage.

International Cooperation 

The IIFA is arguably the world's largest and most influential Fiqh council. It signed cooperation agreements with several international organizations, including a partnership with the World Health Organization for the eradication of the poliovirus through the Islamic Advisory Group that was established by the World Health Organization and Muslim public entities.

Other partnerships include the memorandum of understanding between the IIFA and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, for which the IIFA issued a Fatwa in 2020 allowing it to collect Zakat and charity funds from Muslim donors and distribute them to refugees and displaced persons around the world.

COVID-19 Pandemic 

The IIFA has played a critical role during the COVID-19 pandemic by raising-awareness on the safety and preventive measures against the coronavirus, addressing the OIC Member states and international organizations worldwide with an in-depth fatwa on the COVID-19 pandemic, and urging Muslim populations and local leaders to comply with the precautionary measures set by governments and health authorities to fight the pandemic and minimize its effects.

The IIFA took a firm stand against the coronavirus pandemic and was one of the first Islamic institutions to condemn the COVID-19 conspiracy theories and call for public preventive measures. It refuted the irregular fatwas issued by individual muftis and unreliable organizations that doubted the COVID-19 treatment or called for public disobedience to preventive measures. Instead, it urged the masses to rely on Islamic legal opinions from renowned scholars and physicians to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic.

Medical Research Ethics 

The International Islamic Fiqh Academy had a large hand in the allowance of organ transplantations. In 1986, the International Islamic Fiqh Academy recognized brain-death as a recognized form of death in Islam. This allowed for the immediate start of organ transplantation in Saudi Arabia. The IIFA later issued a fatwa on organ transplantation that expanded the practice .

In 1992, 1997, 2004, 2006, and 2018, the IIFA issued resolutions (fatwas) about medical research ethics. Other organizations that have issued similar fatwas - some in cooperation with the IIFA - include Islamic Organization for Medical Sciences, Islamic Fiqh Council, Dar-Alifta Al-Misrriyah, and Islamic Medical Association of North America.

The IIFA has had a hand in defining standards of medical research confidentiality via institutional fatwas. It has also issued a resolution about fasting during Ramadan for people with diabetes.

Struggle against Extremism and Terrorism 

Since its establishment in 1984, the International Islamic Fiqh Academy vowed to fight extremism, terrorism, and to promote values of moderation and tolerance based on a thorough understanding of Islamic resources. Several members and collaborators of the Academy are signatories of the Amman Message (2004) and the Makkah Declaration (2019).

The International Islamic Fiqh Academy issued several statements and resolutions condemning violence and different forms of extremism on the grounds of Fiqh and Sharia. This had a significant impact on curbing the tide of extremism in the Muslim world. In October–November 2018, the Madinah Declaration was issued at the 23rd session of the Academy in Al Madinah Al Munawwarah, and it called for denominational and jurisprudential tolerance, cooperation, and integration between different Islamic schools and denominations.