[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Marie-Monique Robin

rm also has produced PCBs (such as pyralene), herbicides (such as Agent Orange during the Malayan Emergency and the Vietnam War), and the recombinant bovine growth hormone (rBGH), used to increase milk production in cows. Europe has prohibited the use of rBGH in its dairy cattle and milk production.

The documentary explains that Monsanto has been the subject of numerous lawsuits for environmental contamination since the late 20th century. It promotes itself today as a "life sciences" company, committed to sustainable development. In her study, Robin suggests that Monsanto made efforts to win support in the sciences and regulatory spheres in order to sell its GMOs internationally.  Translated into 16 languages, the movie and her related book have found wide international audiences. In France the documentary was released at a time when the debate about GMOs divided the political class and researchers; the majority of residents was opposed to their use.

This film earned the following awards: the Rachel Carson Prize (Norway), the Umwelt-Medienpreis prize (Germany), and the Ekofilm Festival of Cesky Kumlov (Czech Republic, 2009).

Torture Made in USA
Torture Made in USA is a documentary by Marie-Monique Robin released in 2009. It relates to information reported on torture in Afghanistan, Iraq and Guantanamo.

Our Daily Poison
Her book Our Daily Poison (2011) is the result of a two-year investigation of the toxins in the food chain in ten countries, a thorough examination of industrial chemicals in our food chain revealing there has been a huge increase in rates of cancer, neurodegenerative diseases, reproductive disorders, and diabetes caused by them. It documents the many ways in which we encounter a shocking array of chemicals in our everyday lives—from the pesticides that blanket our crops to the additives and plastics that contaminate our food—and their effects over time.

Crops of the Future
On October 16, 2012 on World Food Day, her film Crops of the Future - How to feed the world in 2050? was shown on Arte a Franco/German TV channel. It describes farmer-led alternatives for food, farming and land use. It is her third work in a film-book trilogy on foods (after The World According to Monsanto in 2008 and Our Daily Poison in 2011).

Sacrée Croissance!
Her documentary Sacrée Croissance! (2014), known as Sacred Growth! (or Damned Growth) in English, was aired by French-German channel ArtePage text. It explores western cultures' emphasis on continual growth and expansion of economies, and the alternatives being explored for sustainability.

See also
Monsanto
Genetically modified food controversies

References

Bibliography
 Voleurs d’organes. Enquête sur un trafic, Éditions Bayard.
 Escadrons de la mort, l'école française, de Marie-Monique Robin. 453 pages. La Découverte (15 September 2004). Collection : Cahiers libres. ()
 Los Escuadrones De La Muerte / The Death Squads, de Marie-Monique Robin. 539 pages. Sudamericana (October 2005). () (Presentation)
Les 100 photos du siècle (Le Chêne/Taschen)
 Le sixième sens, science et paranormal (Le Chêne).
Le Monde selon Monsanto, coédition ARTE éditions / La Découverte 2008 (). (Presentation)

External links 
 The World According to Monsanto at NFB.ca
 New Monsanto movie | Greenpeace International   " ...But Monsanto’s influence doesn't stop at the US border. "The World According to Monsanto", documents the devastating impact of Monsanto's malpractices around the world. Among others, it includes the real-life stories of cotton farmers in India that ended up in hopeless debts after using Monsanto genetically engineered (so called Bt) cotton, and of a family in Paraguay, South America whose dreams have turned to nightmares after their farm became surrounded by fields planted with Monsanto’s GE soya."
 The World According to Monsanto - A documentary that Americans won't ever see, The Smirking Chimp
 The World According to Monsanto - Google Video
 Crops of the Future - How to feed the world in 2050?

1960 births
Living people
Albert Londres Prize recipients
French women journalists
French investigative journalists
French conspiracy theorists
People from Deux-Sèvres
Saarland University alumni
University of Strasbourg alumni
French women writers
Anti-GMO activists