[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Randy Hultgren

d voted in line with President Donald Trump's position in 97.3% of votes.

During the 2008 Republican Party presidential primaries, Hultgren worked on the presidential campaign of former U.S. Senator Fred Thompson, serving as a congressional district chair for Illinois's 14th congressional district.

Hultgren has been described as a member of the Tea Party movement.

Domestic issues

Education 

Hultgren has been an advocate for homeschooling, as his four children are home-schooled, and he believes that "homeschooling is the ultimate local control." In 2011 Hultgren introduced the Family Educational Records Privacy Extension Act (H.R. 2910), which would have required "parental consent before educational agencies or institutions release the educational records of home-schooled students."

Environment 
Hultgren opposed federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. He has described cap-and-trade as "an irresponsible policy".

In 2010 Hultgren signed a pledge sponsored by Americans for Prosperity, promising to vote against any climate-change legislation that would raise taxes. The League of Conservation Voters gave Hultgren an environmental rating of 0% for 2017 and a lifetime rating of 5%.

Gun control
Hultgren is a strong supporter of the second amendment. In April 2018, after the Parkland, Florida, school shooting, Hultgren urged schools and police to do a better job of identifying and intervening with people who are potential threats. “We need to do more to make sure people who are speaking out and acting out or have mental challenges don't get weapons, that people who have criminal histories don't get weapons, and when hearing of a threat we respond quickly,” he said.

Health care 
Hultgren favored repealing the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare). On May 4, 2017, he voted to repeal Obamacare and pass the American Health Care Act.

Hultgren supported a bill that would allow employers to exclude veterans receiving health insurance from the United States Department of Defense or the United States Department of Veterans' Affairs from their list of employees. This would keep their list of employees shorter, allowing some small businesses to fall underneath the 50 full-time employees line that would require them to provide their employees with healthcare under the Affordable Care Act.

Identity fraud
Hultgren and three other members of Congress sponsored the Protecting Children from Identity Theft Act, H.R. 5192, which would require the Social Security Administration (SSA) to take a more active role in preventing identity theft.

Donald Trump
Hultgren endorsed Republican nominee Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election.

Economic issues

National debt
In 2013 Hultgren voted for legislation stop an increase of the debt limit, which led to a government shutdown. He was the only congressperson from Illinois to vote against an agreement to reopen government and end the government shutdown.

Taxes
Hultgren sponsored legislation to permanently repeal the estate tax and voted to repeal it several times.

In November 2017 Hultgren and Peter Roskam introduced the Bring Small Business back Tax Reform Act as part of the Trump Administration's tax reform package. Hultgren said the bill was intended “to cut the overall small business tax rate to 25 percent,” a change he said would “provide much-needed relief to the engine of Illinois's economy.”

Tariffs
In June 2018 Hultgren and Roskam expressed their disapproval of Trump's plan to impose tariffs on Mexico, Canada, and the European Union. “There's real concern about what an escalating trade war would mean,” said Hultgren, who articulated concern about the impact of such tariffs on manufacturers and farmers in his district.

Budget
Hultgren supported a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution.

Hultgren and Andy Barr (R-KY) introduced legislation that would compel the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study the privacy risks associated with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's Home Mortgage Disclosure Act rule. The legislation would also prohibit depository institutions, the CFPB, and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council from making available to the public any information gathered in accordance with the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act.

Banking
On March 6, 2018, the House passed without opposition H.R. 4725, the Community Bank Reporting Relief Act, sponsored by Hultgren and two other Members of Congress. The law simplifies reporting requirements for community banks. “The role of smaller financial institutions is especially important in more rural areas, such as my district, where larger banks tend to not have as many branches”, Hultgren said.

Corporations