[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Heshui Campaign

heir legs.  The regimental commander of the nationalist Gansu 2nd Security Regiment, Li Hongxuan (), was also wounded.  The most serious setback for the defenders, however, was that the only radio in the town was destroyed in the battle so the besieged town lost contact with other nationalist units.

Fifth Stage
After retreating to Qingyang, the nationalists regrouped, and planned for another attempt to reinforce the besieged town of Heshui. Ma Buluan, the commander of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade, had a new plan for the next move and his plan was supported by Ma Jiyuan, the commander of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division.  Ma Buluan was very happy that his new plan was approved and immediately ordered his troops to set out again at noon on May 30, 1947, after reaching Qingyang two hours ago, and this time the nationalists were better prepared: Tan Shilin (), the local security chief of Qingyang and other locals went along as guides, and the nationalists found trails that lead to Heshui from Qingyang via the Willow Ditch (Liu Gou, ) area of Northern Plateau region.  The 1st Company and the 2nd Company of the 1st Regiment of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade were the advanced guards. In the meantime, the enemy also made new deployment: the Independent 4th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column was ordered to immediately join the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column who had beaten back the first nationalist reinforcement attempt and both communist brigades set up a defense at Vesper Col (Tai Bai Ao, ) region in order to check the advance of the nationalist reinforcement for a second time. On May 30, 1947, Hu Zongnan sent an airplane from Xi'an at noon to check if the nationalists were still fighting in Heshui.  After confirming that the town was still firmly in the nationalist hands, the sole airplane dropped the few bombs on the enemy positions outside the city wall, though all of them had missed their targets because the pilot was forced to pull up to the high altitude in order to avoid enemy ground fire.

The nationalist reinforcement was sent in three fronts, and the main force of 2,000 consisted of the 2nd Regiment of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division and the Garrison Group of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division.  The 2nd Regiment of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was originally organized as the 2nd Cavalry Division during the Second Sino-Japanese War to be sent to central China to fight the Japanese invaders, but they were sent in Shaanxi by Hu Zongnan to blockade communist base.  After the end of World War II, the nationalist 2nd Cavalry Division returned to Qinghai, along with nationalist 8th Cavalry Division returning from Xuzhou.  The nationalist 2nd Cavalry Division was subsequently reorganized as 2nd Regiment of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade, and in May 1947, the unit was selected to reinforce the besieged town of Heshui.  The nationalist commander of the campaign, Ma Jiyuan, the commander of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division selected his uncle, Ma Bufang's brother-in-law, Lieutenant General Ma Quanyi, the deputy commander of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division to be in charge of all of the nationalist reinforcement forces, and his assistant was the divisional staff officer Han Youlu (), who was the original regimental commander of the 2nd Regiment of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade.  One reason why Han Youlu was also sent was because Li Wenbin (), his replacement after his promotion was selected by the Ma Buluan, the commander of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade, but Li Wenbin, the new regimental commander of the 2nd Regiment of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade, was not a Muslim and thus might have difficulties in commanding the Muslim troops who were subordinates of Han Youlu, the former regimental commander.