[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1989 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1989 in New Zealand.

Population
 Estimated population as of 31 December: 3,369,800.
 Increase since 31 December 1988: 24,600 (0.74%).
 Males per 100 Females: 97.1.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
 Head of State – Elizabeth II
 Governor-General – The Rt Revd. Sir Paul Reeves GCMG GCVO QSO

Government
The 42nd New Zealand Parliament continued. The fourth Labour Party government was in power.
 Speaker of the House – Kerry Burke
 Prime Minister – David Lange then Geoffrey Palmer
 Deputy Prime Minister – Geoffrey Palmer then Helen Clark
 Minister of Finance – David Caygill
 Minister of Foreign Affairs – Russell Marshall
 Chief Justice – Sir Ronald Davison (until 4 February), Sir Thomas Eichelbaum (starting 4 February)

Parliamentary opposition 
 Leader of the Opposition – Jim Bolger (National).

Main centre leaders
 Mayor of Auckland – Catherine Tizard
 Mayor of Hamilton – Ross Jansen then Margaret Evans
 Mayor of Wellington – Jim Belich
 Mayor of Christchurch – Hamish Hay then Vicki Buck
 Mayor of Dunedin – Cliff Skeggs then Richard Walls

Events 
 First annual balance of payments surplus since 1973.
 The Reserve Bank Act sets the role of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand as maintaining price stability.
 The Tomorrow's Schools reforms shift substantial financial and administrative responsibilities for managing schools to elected boards of trustees.
 Local Government elections under a revised structure.
 The Māori Fisheries Act passed.
 The Sale of Liquor Act passed; it provided for supermarkets to sell wine (but not beer; this happened in 1999). Two amendments were also passed in 1989.
 April – Swedish tourists Urban Höglin and Heidi Paakkonen disappear while backpacking in the Coromandel, leading to the largest land-based search undertaken in New Zealand.
 9–12 April – British Airways Concorde G-BOAF visits Christchurch Airport on a world tour.
 25 April – David Lange suggests New Zealand should withdraw from the ANZUS council.
 29 April – The Taranaki Herald publishes its last issue. The newspaper had published since 1852, and was New Zealand's oldest newspaper from 1935.
 1 May – Jim Anderton forms the NewLabour Party.
 7 August – David Lange resigns as Prime Minister of New Zealand and is replaced by Geoffrey Palmer.
 26 November – TV3 begins broadcasting.
 28 November – The Abolition of the Death Penalty Act received Royal assent.
 10 December – Sunday trading begins.

Arts and literature
 Renee wins the Robert Burns Fellowship.

See 1989 in art, 1989 in literature, :Category:1989 books

Music

New Zealand Music Awards 

Winners are shown first with nominees underneath.
 Album of the Year: Margaret Urlich–Safety in Numbers
Fan Club – Respect The Beat
The Front Lawn – Songs from The Front Lawn
 Single of the Year: Margaret Urlich – "Escaping"
Fan Club – I Feel Love
Double J and Twice the T/ Ray Columbus – She's A Mod
 Best Male Vocalist: Tim Finn
Howard Morrison
Barry Saunders
 Best Female Vocalist: Margaret Urlich
Moana Jackson
Aishah
 Best Group: When The Cat's Away
The Warratahs
The Fan Club
 Most Promising Male Vocalist: Paul Ubana Jones
Greg Johnson
Darren Watson
 Most Promising Female Vocalist: Janet Roddick
Belinda Bradley
Julie Collier
 Most Promising Group: The Front Lawn
Double J and Twice the T
Upper Hutt Posse
 International Achievement: The Front Lawn
Kiri Te Kanawa
Straitjacket Fits
 Outstanding Contribution to the Music Industry: Tony Vercoe
 Best Video: Paul Middleditch / Polly Walker / Debbie Watson – I Feel Love (Fan Club)
Warrick (Waka) Attewell – St Peter's Rendezvous (Barry Saunders)
Tony Johns – She's A Mod/ Mod RAP (Double J and Twice the T)
 Best Film Soundtrack / Compilation: The Front Lawn – Songs From The Front Lawn
Rahda and the Brats -Kid in the Middle
Various – This Is The Moment
 Best Producer: Ian Morris – Nobody Else
Mike Chunn – All Wrapped Up
Ross McDermott/Annie Crummer – Melting Pot (When The Cat's Away)
 Best Engineer: Nigel Stone/ Tim Farrant – Everything Will Be Alright
DC Bell – Please Say Something
Nick Morgan – Melting Pot
 Best Jazz Album: No Award
 Best Classical Album: Stanley Friedman – The Lyric Trumpet
Various Artists – Bold is Brass
Michael Houston – Scriabin/ Chopin
 Best Folk Album: Paul Ubana Jones – Paul Ubana Jones
Phil Powers – The Light of the Lions Eye
Phil Garland – Wind in the Tussock
 Best Gospel Album: Stephen Bell-Booth–Shelter
Guy Wishart – Another Day in Paradise
Steve Apirana – Steve Apirana
 Best Polynesian Album: Howard Morrison – Tukua Ahau
Moana & The Moa Hunters – Pupurutia
Black Katz Trust – Ko Wai Ka Hua
 Best Songwriter: Barry Saunders – St Peters Rendezvous
Tim Finn – Parihaka
Don McGlashan / Harry Sinclair – Andy
 Best Cover: Polly Walker / Debbie Watson – Safety in Numbers (Margaret Urlich)
Gavin Blake – Workshop
Anthony Donaldson/ Cadre Communications- The Hills Are Alive

See: 1989 in music

Performing arts