[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Friedrich Kellner

has caused disturbances with the local party. Further, the incidents in the year 1940 (the threatened incarceration in a concentration camp) had really an unfavorable effect.  It was Kellner's open opposition to National Socialism which prevented possible promotions and damaged him in his service."

 
Kellner and his wife arranged to have their son, Fred William Kellner, sent to the United States in 1935 out of concern he might otherwise have to fight for Hitler.  Fred William returned to Germany in 1945 as a member of the U.S. Army. He was unable to cope with the devastation he witnessed, and in 1953 he took his own life.  He is buried in the American Legion Tomb in Neuilly, France, on the outskirts of Paris. Fred's son, Robert Scott Kellner, grew up in a children's home in Connecticut. In 1960, while in the United States Navy and traveling through Germany, Robert Scott Kellner located his grandparents, Friedrich and Pauline Kellner, and learned of the existence of the diary. In 1968, Friedrich Kellner gave his diary to his American grandson to translate and bring to the attention of the public. He believed his observations during World War II could have meaning in the increasing hostilities in the world brought about by the Cold War with Communism, and the proliferation of neo-Nazi cults.

Friedrich and Pauline Kellner spent their last few years in Mainz, where Kellner had first begun his service as a law administrator and a political activist.  He served as a volunteer legal advisor in Mainz from 1962 until 1969. After Pauline's death on 8 February 1970, Friedrich returned to Laubach for the remaining few months of his life. He died on 4 November 1970, in the regional hospital in Lich, not far from Laubach.  He was buried at the side of his wife in the Main Cemetery, Hauptfriedhof, in Mainz.

Decades later, Robert Scott Kellner would use the diary to combat the resurgence of fascism and anti-Semitism in the twenty-first century, and to counter historical revisionists who would deny the Holocaust and other Nazi atrocities. He offered a copy of the diary to the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has referred to the Holocaust as "a myth" and has called for Israel to be "wiped off the map."  In his offer to Ahmadinejad, Kellner said: "We need to renounce ideologies that do not uphold, above all else, human life and personal liberty."

Works

Diary

 
My Opposition consists of 10 volumes with a total of 861 pages.  The volumes are  sheets of accounting paper bound together by string. There are 676 individually dated entries beginning in September 1939 through May 1945. More than 500 newspaper clippings are pasted onto the pages of the diary. The diary is written in a script called Sütterlin, the old German handwriting which was banned in 1941 and replaced by modern Latin lettering to make German easier for the conquered nations of Europe to read and understand.

There are separate pages written in 1938 and 1939, considered preliminary pages to the diary, that explain Kellner's intentions. He meant for his observations to detail the events of those years, and to offer a prescription for future generations to prevent what occurred in Germany during Adolf Hitler's rise to power, when a fledgling democracy willingly embraced dictatorship to solve political disputes.  Kellner foresaw Germany's defeat, and warned against a recurrence of totalitarianism.  He prescribed unrelenting resistance against any ideology that threatened personal liberty and ignored the sanctity of human life.

The complete diary was published by  in Göttingen, Germany, in 2011. It consists of two volumes, approximately 1,200 pages, with over 70 illustrations and photographs. The title is "Friedrich Kellner, 'Vernebelt, verdunkelt sind alle Hirne,' Tagebücher 1939-1945."

The English translation of the diary was published in January 2018 by Cambridge University Press. Translated and edited by Robert Scott Kellner, it is a single volume hardback of 520 pages with 53 illustrations and photographs. The title is "My Opposition: The Diary of Friedrich Kellner -- A German against the Third Reich."