[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yoram Globus

Yoram Globus (; born 7 September 1943) is an Israeli–American film producer, cinema owner, and distributor. He has been involved in over 300 full-length motion pictures and he is most known for his association with The Cannon Group, Inc., an American film production company, which he co-owned with his cousin Menahem Golan.

Early life
Yoram Globus was born in Tiberias, on the lake of Galilee, Palestine, British mandate of, now Israel, in 1943 to Jewish parents who immigrated from Poland. When he was three years old, his family moved to the northern city of Kiryat Motzkin. His father, Shmuel, built a cinema, which was unique at that time. When the cinema opened, Globus was 5 years old and very interested in all aspects of the cinema. He would help with whatever his father needed: from hanging posters, serving as a cashier, to promoting movies. At the age of 10 Yoram became the projectionist. During high school he moved to Tel Aviv, where his parents opened another cinema.

Globus graduated business school. He enlisted in the Israel Defense Forces, served as a combat soldier and officer, and retired as a lieutenant.

His cousin is Israeli filmmaker Menahem Golan.

Career
In 1963, Globus partnered with his cousin Menahem Golan, who was already a well-known stage and film director in Israel. Together, they were instrumental in creating the film industry in the country. Over the years they were very successful, building a company that produced movies in Israel, in addition to co-productions in Europe. It became the number 1 production company in Israel. They distributed both European and Israeli movies. For more than 25 years they represented such American studios as Warner Bros., Universal, Paramount and DreamWorks in Israel. 

Their most successful projects include Operation Thunderbolt (about the Entebbe raid, which was nominated for Academy Award), Kazablan (a musical sold to MGM), Lemon Popsicle, I Love You Rosa, and The House on Chelouche Street, which was nominated for Best Foreign Film by the Academy Awards. They had additional films that represented Israel in many film festivals, such as: Cannes, Berlin, AFM, Milano Film Market, and more.

In the early 1970s, Globus and Golan started to make movies in Europe (Magician of Lublin, based on the book by Isaac Bashevis Singer) and in Hollywood (Lepke with Tony Curtis, which was sold to Warner Bros., and The 4 Deuces, with Jack Palance and Carol Lynley, which was sold to Avco-Embassy).

Move to the United States
In 1978, Globus and Golan moved to Hollywood, where they acquired The Cannon Group, Inc. for $500,000; it was traded on NASDQ for 25 cents a share. They went to the Cannes Film Festival that year and licensed Cannon's movies for approximately $2.5M. After acquiring 51% of the company's shares, they used the money to start making low-budget action movies.

In the beginning of the 1980s, Globus and Golan recognized that video was the next big thing; they signed actor Chuck Norris for a 7-year exclusive deal, Charles Bronson for a multiple-picture deal, and discovered Jean-Claude Van Damme and signed him for many pictures. They capitalized on the ninja trend, discovered Michael Dudikoff, and signed him to a multiple picture deal. Resulting films from these actions include : The "Missing in Action" series (Chuck Norris), The "Death Wish" series (Charles Bronson), "Blood Sport" (Jean-Claude Van Damme), and "American Ninja" (Michael Dudikoff).

The company elevated the production slate. Apart from the action movies, in 1982 they broadened their approach, producing such movies as: Sahara (Brooke Shields), The Championship Season (Bruce Dern and Martin Sheen), Wicked Lady (Faye Dunaway), and King Solomon's Mine (Richard Chamberlain and Sharon Stone). Over those years, the Cannon Group stock was moved to the NY stock exchange and rose in value p from 25 cents in the late 1970s to $48 in 1984.  Cannon became the largest independent producer and distributor in the world.

By the mid-1980s, Cannon was producing an average of 40 films per year and had a net worth of over US$1 billion. Because of their fast, low-budget style of filmmaking, Globus and Golan earned the nickname "the Go-Go Boys."  Among the films produced by Cannon are Bloodsport with Jean-Claude Van Damme, Superman IV: The Quest for Peace with Christopher Reeve, King Lear directed by Jean-Luc Godard, Runaway Train (1985), Over The Top with Sylvester Stallone, and Street Smart with Morgan Freeman. During this time, Globus and Golan also acquired the rights to Spider-Man and Captain America.