[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vault RNA

mitoxantrone. In addition, the same study showed weakened expression of vtRNA correlated to the cancer cells became more responsive or sensitive to mitoxantrone. Studies as such suggest that vtRNAs might have a role in blocking the drugs from getting to their target sites.

NSUN2 deficiency disease

It has been shown that vault non-coding RNAs contain multiple cytosine residues that have been methylated by the NSUN2 protein. In NSUN2 deficient cells, the loss of cytosine-5 methylation causes incorrect processing into small RNA fragments that end up functioning similar to micro RNAs. As a result, it has been suggested that impaired vault RNA processing may contribute to the symptoms that are manifested in NSUN2 deficiency diseases.

Research methods
While the function of vault RNAs is still relatively unknown, due to their unique structure these molecules have become useful in developing new research methods. One example of this is seen in the fact that vtRNAs are used to benchmark the performance of the research query tool fragrep2.

Query tools are used to find regions of similar biological sequences amongst species. However, one problem that these tools (e.g. most famously, BLAST) have is that they struggle to identify sequences that contain insertions and deletions. These highly variable structural changes cause the tool to be fooled and have errors in their results.

Fragrep2 seeks to solve this problem by using a pattern-based algorithm that can match or almost match exact sequences of motifs within the desired molecule. In order to help build fragrep2, the scientists needed a test molecule and found vault RNAs to be perfect. The reason being that vault RNAs generally have two very well conserved sequences, surrounded by regions of high variability.

This tool is significant not only because it has helped advance the research of vault RNA, but also because of its other applications within the RNA field. Vault RNAs are not the only kind of RNA with this type of semi-conserved/highly variable structure, other notable RNAs include RNAse P, RNAse MRP, telomerase RNA, and 7SK RNA.

See also
 Vault (organelle)
 Major vault protein

References

External links
 
 The Vault website
 

Non-coding RNA