[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Rashidieh

gh Amal never succeeded in fully controlling the camps themselves. In the Sunni 'canton' of Sidon, the armed PLO returned in force."Tensions between Amal and Palestinian militants soon exploded into the War of the Camps, which is considered as "one of the most brutal episodes in a brutal civil war":

In September 1986, a group of Palestinians fired on an Amal patrol at Rashidieh. At the end of September Amal imposed a blockade on the camp. After one month of siege, Amal attacked the camp.  It was reportedly assisted by the Progressive Socialist Party of Druze leader Walid Jumblatt as well as by the pro-Syrian Palestinian militias of As-Saiqa and the "Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command". Fighting spread and continued for one month. In the words of one Palestinian woman from Rashidieh,  "Amal [..] did the same things that the Israelis did." UNRWA recorded that between 1982 and 1987 in Rashidieh "more than 600 shelters were totally or partially destroyed and more than 5,000 Palestine refugees were displaced."

By the end of November, with the fighting having spread to Sidon and Beirut, four small camps in Tyre had been destroyed with an estimated 18,000 residents fleeing to the Beqaa. On 24 November the Palestinian factions in Sidon launched an offensive against Amal positions in the strategic village of Maghdouché in an attempt to cut Amal forces around Rashidieh off from their stronghold in West Beirut. Rashidieh was able to withstand the siege better than the camps in Beirut since food was reaching the camp by sea. By the end of the year 8,000 Palestinians had fled to Sidon which was not under Amal control. Around a 1,000 men had been kidnapped from the camps in Tyre.

The conflict ended with the withdrawal of Palestinian forces loyal to PLO leader Arafat from Beirut and their redeployment to the camps in Southern Lebanon. The one in Rashidieh likewise continued to be the "main stronghold" of Arafat's Fatah party and loyalist contingents of other PLO factions, though some forces opposed to them - including Islamists - kept a presence and representation there as well.

In February 1988, "Amal seemed to lose control" when US-Colonel William R. Higgins, who served in a senior position of the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), was kidnapped on the coastal highway to Naqoura close to Rashidieh by armed men suspected of being affiliated with Hezbollah. The incident took place following a meeting between Higgins and a local Amal leader and led to renewed clashes between Amal and Hezbollah, mainly in Beirut.

Throughout the war, clandestine excavations were conducted in Rashidieh. Many cinerary urns from Phoenician times thus ended up in private collections without any documentation. In addition, Rashidieh's beach was subject to sand grabbing and suction.

 Post-Civil War (since 1990) 
On 14 June 1990 fierce fighting broke out in the Rashidieh Camp between two factions of the Abu Nidal Organization. The clashes lasted two days with three killed and 15 wounded. Amongst the dead was the leader of the Abu Nidal loyalists in the Camp. His followers evacuated to Ain al-Hilwa Camp.

An Israeli air strike on Rashidieh, 24 October 1990, caused 5 casualties and destroyed a school.

Following the end of the war in March 1991 based on the Taif Agreement, units of the Lebanese Army deployed along the coastal highway and around the Palestinian refugee camps of Tyre.

By the end of the 1990s, the Coalition of Fatah with the Palestinian Liberation Front (PLF), Palestinian Popular Struggle Front (PPSF), and the Palestinian People's Party (PPP) in Lebanon was headed by Sultan Abu al-'Aynayn, who resided in Rashidieh. In 1999, he was sentenced to death in absentia by the Lebanese authorities for inciting armed rebellion and damaging the property of the Lebanese state.

At the time of Israel's invasion in the July 2006 Lebanon War, the camp had about 18,000 residents. Reportedly, more than 1,000 Lebanese fled their homes to seek shelter in Rashidieh during the Israeli bombardments of Southern Lebanon:"It's kind of an irony really. It's almost a joke what's going on," said Ibrahim al-Ali, a 26-year-old Palestinian social worker in the camp. "The irony is that refugees are accepting citizens from their own country."However, on 8 August 2006, the area of Rashidieh was hit by Israeli attack as well.

In May 2020, clashes in Rashidieh left one person dead and five others injured.

On 14 May 2021, shortly after the beginning of the 2021 Israel–Palestine crisis, the Lebanese Army issued a statement saying that they had found three rockets in the Rashidieh area, but that the discovery was not linked to the launch of a number of rockets - apparently Soviet-era short-range Grad projectiles - from the nearby coastal area belonging to the Qlaileh village a day earlier.