[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

ate troops and 30 Anti-Treaty fighters at Curraghtown, County Meath. One man on either side is killed before a priest arranges a truce and the republicans surrender. They are held in Trim and Dundalk gaols.
6 July – 
A Free State expeditionary force is sent to County Wexford to re-take the towns there. It comprises 230 men under Colonel Commandant Keogh, with one field gun and four armoured vehicles.
Two Anti-Treaty fighters are killed in a skirmish outside a pub in Urlingford.
7 July – 
Free State troops move south from Dublin and break up the Anti-Treaty concentration at Blessington. They take 60 republican prisoners at Brittas and 13 more at Ballymore Eustace. Oscar Traynor and the main Anti-Treaty force from Dublin abandons Blessington. In exchanges of fire, one man on either side is killed and two Free State troops are wounded.
National Army troops beat off an attack on Lifford Barracks, County Donegal. Two National Army soldiers are wounded. Irregular casualties are unknown.
Pro-Treaty forces take Galway, with minimal resistance. One Anti-Treaty IRA captain, Donnellan is killed, five of his men are wounded and 12 captured before Free State troops secure the area. The remaining republican fighters set fire to a number of public buildings before fleeing the city. The National Army takes two killed and more wounded in the operation.
8 July – The Republicans in Wexford abandon Enniscorthy and New Ross.
9 July – the Free State barracks in Bailieboro, County Cavan is attacked and taken, the arms of its garrison are seized. An anti-Treaty prisoner, Edward Boylans is shot dead in Cavan barracks as he tries to escape.
11 July – Fighting breaks out in Limerick between Pro- and Anti-Treaty factions. National Army troops open fire on the Republicans holding the Ordnance Barracks.
Two Free State soldiers are killed and three wounded in an ambush at Drumkeen, County Donegal.
12–13 July – Republicans are taken prisoner in fighting in Limerick city.
Anti-Treaty forces capture 47 Free State troops in east County Limerick.
Free State troops secure Maryborough after a four-hour gun battle. Three Anti-Treatyites are killed and two Free State soldiers wounded.
13 July – Republicans take the Free State outpost, the Munster Tavern, in Limerick, but are driven back by armoured cars.
Anti-Treaty IRA Mayo unit ambushes Pro-Treaty men at Rockwood, County Sligo, killing five, wounding four and capturing two armoured cars. They then occupy Collooney.
One Free State soldier is killed and one fatally wounded in an ambush in Stranarlor, County Donegal.
A Free State column of 16 is ambushed, taken prisoner and disarmed in County Clare.
14 July – Seán Mac Eoin and 400 Free State troops re-take Collooney, after an artillery bombardment and protracted fire-fight, taking 74 Republican prisoners. Only one man is killed, however, an Anti-Treaty IRA fighter.
15 July – National Army troops assault Republican-held Strand Barracks and King John's Castle in Limerick, with armoured cars, grenades, machine gun and mortar fire, but fail to take them. Six Free State troops are killed and five wounded. One Republican is killed and five wounded.
A skirmish takes place in Kiltimagh, County Mayo. Anti-Treaty fighters attempt to kidnap T. Ruane, chairman of the Swinford District Council, but a fire-fight breaks out in which Ruane, an Anti-Treaty officer and Free State officer are fatally wounded.
National Army troops surround and take Cappard House, County Laois where the local Anti-Treaty forces were billeted. Five Republicans are reported killed.
A Free State soldier is killed in an ambush at Gort, County Galway.
Free State troops, equipped with an 18-pounder gun, shell the republican camp at Lough Inch, County Donegal. They surrender after two days, with 30 taken prisoner. 
16 July – Free State troops take Frank Aiken, who was previously neutral, along with 3–400 of his men from the Fourth Northern Division of the Irish Republican Army, prisoner in Dundalk. Two of Aiken's men are killed.
17 July – Free State general Eoin O'Duffy arrives in Limerick with 1,500 National Army troops, four armoured cars and one 18-pounder field gun.
Two Anti-Treaty fighters are killed in two separate ambushes in County Kildare.
In Galway, the funeral of a soldier killed on the 15th is fired on by Republicans, a battalion commandant, Rooney, is killed.
18 July – 
Due to the occupation of Westport by Irregulars, supplies begin to run out.  The flour and oatmeal supply is exhausted and stores are empty. There is considerable unemployment due to the closure of the port and local bacon factory. Post Office workers in Westport and Castlebar are refusing to go to work. As a consequence, Pensions are not being distributed.
Free State general John T. Prout arrives in Waterford with 700 troops, one artillery piece and four armoured cars to take the city. His second in command is deposed East Waterford Brigade Commandant Paddy Paul. The Anti-Treaty IRA garrison consists of 200–300