[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Emerging adulthood and early adulthood

ing to find a full-time job with little direction as to where to start their career. Only after self-efficiency has been reached and after a long period of freedom has experienced, that is when emerging adults will be ready to become adults and take on the full responsibility.

Established Adulthood

Established Adulthood is the proposed range of approximately 30 to 45, complementing Emerging Adulthood. They are essentially a combination of the later years of young adulthood (30-35), extending to the early years of middle adulthood (40-45). It is described as the most challenging yet most rewarding phase of adulthood. Mehta et al., (2020) state that "During this period of the life span most adults must negotiate the intersecting demands of progressing in a chosen career, maintaining an intimate partnership, and caring for children. Successes or difficulties in meeting these simultaneous demands have the potential to profoundly influence the direction of a person's adult life."

History 
In the early 1960s, the average age that young adults were marrying was 20.3 years old for women and 22.8 years old for men, which included a child or expecting a child and/or finishing up education. Young mothers were settling into their full-time mothers roles, whereas fathers/husbands had established themselves in their working careers. In the 1970s the average age for childbirth started to increase, by 2010 it rose to 26 years for women and 28 for men. Jeffrey Arnett pointed out four revolutions that changed everything people knew in the 1960s and 70s and contributed to the existence of the emerging adulthood stages of life—the technology revolution, the sexual revolution, the women's movement, and the youth movement.

The Technology Revolution: This revolution transformed the United States (and other industrializing economies) from manufacturing economies to knowledge and skill-based economies. After computers became widespread throughout homes and workplaces, more education was required for employment. This prompted younger adults to spend more and more time in school rather than working full-time or starting families. These are both characteristics generally associated with "full-on" adulthood.

The Sexual Revolution: The sexual revolution began in the early 1960s, led to emerging adulthood because young adults began having sexual relations before marriage or having children. This was, in part, due to the development of more effective methods of contraception. For example, in 1964, birth control became another option for young adults. This resulted in postponing marriage and parenthood age back a few years, changing the early and mid-twenties from a time of married relationships to a time of non-committed sexual relationships. Younger adults were no longer leaving home to get married. Marriage became less and less of a standard or "pre-requisite" of adulthood. Because of this, this stage of life was no longer characterized by the responsibilities and organization of marriage, leaving younger adults in qualitatively different relationships than before.

The Women's Movement: The Women's movement also contributed to the development of emerging adulthood. Before this movement, their sole purpose was to find a husband and bear children, becoming full-time housewives. Soon after, women began to seek options for careers and education that were uncommon in the 1960s. Because of this, more women spend their emerging adulthood (approximately ages 18–29) years pursuing careers and higher education rather than settling down and starting families. This delay in marriage age developed the emerging adult phase of life because many people at this age were exploring and pursuing different paths than their predecessors.

The Youth Movement: This movement represented a shift in the cultural attitudes and perceptions of adulthood. Previous to this movement in the 1960s and 1970s, many young people aspired to grow up and become adults who were considered wise, in control, and independent. This movement changed perceptions of adulthood to be less favorable than those of youth. Music and phrases reflected the growing movement to celebrate youth and renounce aging. For example, phrases like "I want to be forever young" and "never trust adults" became increasingly common, and youth began to prevail over wisdom in terms of popularity. Because of this, young adults postponed adulthood and prolonged their youth into their twenties by living independently of conditions and characteristics associated with adulthood. The delay of adulthood and popularization of remaining young brought about by this revolution led to the development of emerging adulthood.

Physiological development