[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Politics of Cyprus

th sides, which was based on both UN Resolutions and decisions of the European Court of Human Rights;
 took a dim view of any proposals which did not allow for the repatriation of Turkish settlers from the mainland who had emigrated to Cyprus since 1974; and
 supported a stronger central government.

The Turkish Cypriot side:
 favoured a weak central government presiding over two sovereign states in voluntary association, a legacy of earlier fears of domination by the majority Greek Cypriots; and
 opposed plans for demilitarisation, citing security concerns.

The continued difficulties in finding a settlement presented a potential obstacle to Cypriot entry to the European Union, for which the government had applied in 1997. UN-sponsored talks between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders, Glafkos Klerides and Rauf Denktaş, continued intensively in 2002, but without resolution. In December 2002, the EU formally invited Cyprus to join in 2004, insisting that EU membership would apply to the whole island and hoping that it would provide a significant enticement for reunification resulting from the outcome of ongoing talks. However, weeks before the UN deadline, Klerides was defeated in presidential elections by centre candidate Tassos Papadopoulos. Papadopoulos had a reputation as a hard-liner on reunification and based his stance on international law and human rights. By mid-March, the UN declared that the talks had failed.

A United Nations plan sponsored by Secretary-General Kofi Annan was announced on 31 March 2004, based on what progress had been made during the talks in Switzerland and fleshed out by the UN, was put for the first time to civilians on both sides in separate referendums on 24 April 2004. The Greek side overwhelmingly rejected the Annan Plan, and the Turkish side voted in favour.

In May 2004, Cyprus entered the EU, still divided, although in practice membership only applies to the southern part of the island which is in the control of the Republic of Cyprus. In acknowledgment of the Turkish Cypriot community's support for reunification, however, the EU made it clear that trade concessions would be reached to stimulate economic growth in the north, and remains committed to reunification under acceptable terms. Though some trade restrictions were lifted on the north to alleviate economic isolation for the Turkish Cypriots, further negotiations have not been a priority. There is now a focus on convincing Turkey to recognise the government of Cyprus, a requirement for Turkish admission advocated most strongly by Cyprus and France.

Constitution
The 16 August 1960 constitution envisioned power sharing between the Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots.  Efforts to amends the constitution sparked the intercommunal strife in 1963.  This constitution is still in force, though there is no Turkish Cypriot presence in the Cypriot government.

Executive branch

|President
|Nikos Christodoulides
|Independent
|28 February 2023
|}
The president, elected by popular vote for a five-year term, is both the chief of state and head of government; post of vice president is currently vacant; under the 1960 constitution, the post is reserved for a Turkish Cypriot. The Council of Ministers is appointed jointly by the president and vice president.

Currently there are eleven ministries and five deputy ministries. 

Ministries: 
Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and the Environment. Minister: Petros Xenophontos
Ministry of Energy, Commerce and Industry. Minister: Giorgos Papanastasiou
Ministry of Transport, Communications and Works. Minister: Alexis Vafiades
Ministry of Defence. Minister: Michalis Georgallas
Ministry of Education, Sport and Youth. Minister: Dr Athena Michaelidou
Ministry of Finance. Minister: Makis Keravnos
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister: Constantinos Kombos
Ministry of Health. Minister: Popi Kanari
Ministry of the Interior. Minister: Constantinos Ioannou
Ministry of Justice and Public Order. Minister: Anna Prokopiou
Ministry of Labour and Social Insurance: Yiannis Panayiotou
Deputy Ministries:

 Deputy Ministry of Shipping. Deputy Minister: Marina Hadjimanoli
 Deputy Ministry of Tourism. Deputy Minister: Costas Koumis
 Deputy Ministry of Research, Innovation and Digital Policy. Deputy Minister: Philippos Hadjizacharias
 Deputy Ministry of Social Welfare. Deputy Minister: Marilena Evangelou
 Deputy Ministry of Culture. Deputy Minister: Michalis Hatzigiannis

Legislative branch
The House of Representatives (Βουλή των Αντιπροσώπων - Voulí ton Antiprosópon/Temsilciler Meclisi) has 59 members elected for a five-year term: 56 Greek Cypriot members chosen by proportional representation and 3 observer members representing the Maronite, Latin Catholic and Armenian minorities. 24 seats are allocated to the Turkish community, but are currently vacant.

Political parties and elections

Latest elections

President

Parliament