[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Arthur S. Carpender

ember, small ships escorted by corvettes carried out Operation Lilliput to deliver vital supplies to Oro Bay. During the Pacific Military Conference in March 1943, MacArthur's chief of staff, Major General Richard K. Sutherland, spoke to Admiral King and expressed his dissatisfaction with Carpender.

On 15 March 1943, the Southwest Pacific Force, known colloquially as "MacArthur’s Navy", became the Seventh Fleet. It remained very small. The Seventh Fleet acquired an amphibious force under the command of Rear Admiral Daniel E. Barbey. This eventually became the VII Amphibious Force, but for some time most of its strength was only on paper, or en route to Australia from the United States. Observing the capabilities of PT boats during his evacuation from the Philippines, MacArthur encouraged their use, although initial results were disappointing. Carpender made effective use of them  during the Battle of the Bismarck Sea on 25 March 1943.

Carpender oversaw the Seventh Fleet's operations during the early stages of Operation Cartwheel, MacArthur's advance towards the main Japanese base at Rabaul. A crisis arose during the Battle of Finschhafen, when Carpender became reluctant to reinforce the Australian position. As the situation at Finschhafen became increasingly precarious, Lieutenant General Sir Edmund Herring grew frustrated with Carpender's attitude, and appealed to Blamey, who in turn took up the matter with MacArthur. On 29 September 1943, Carpender agreed to use high-speed transports to send an additional battalion to Finschhafen, and the crisis passed. Carpender told Lieutenant General Frank Berryman that he "resented the implication that Uncle Sam's Navy was letting [the Australians] down at Finschhafen."

Carpender was replaced by Admiral Thomas C. Kinkaid on 26 November 1943. For his services in the Southwest Pacific, he was awarded the Army Distinguished Service Medal by MacArthur, and the Legion of Merit by the Navy. He was also appointed an honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire on the recommendation of the Australian government, and a Grand Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau by the Netherlands. He returned to the United States, where he commanded the Ninth Naval District from 3 January 1944 until 31 August 1945, for which he was awarded a second Legion of Merit.

Later life
Carpender's last naval assignment was as Coordinator of Public Relations in the Office of the Secretary of the Navy from 28 May 1946. He retired from the Navy on 1 November 1946, with a tombstone promotion to the rank of admiral. He lived in retirement in Washington, D.C. until his death on 10 January 1960, and was buried in Arlington National Cemetery. His papers are held by the New Jersey Historical Society.

Notes

References

 

.

1884 births
1960 deaths
United States Navy personnel of World War I
United States Navy World War II admirals
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery
Companions of the Distinguished Service Order
Grand Officers of the Order of Orange-Nassau
Honorary Commanders of the Order of the British Empire
People from New Brunswick, New Jersey
Recipients of the Distinguished Service Medal (US Army)
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
United States Naval Academy alumni
United States Navy admirals
Recipients of the Navy Distinguished Service Medal
Military personnel from New Jersey