[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Dargonesti

red mad and are held captive in an outlying fort. When the Dargonesti do come to attack the fort, the general sets them free to help fight. However, the Dargonesti brought a kraken, which quickly levels the fort. The two manage to escape and reach Silvanost to warn the Speaker of the Stars, Elendar.

With the help of Vixa and Gundabyr, the Silvanesti manage to defeat the Dargonesti, and hold Uriona, Coryphene and other Dargonesti elves captive. Elendar decides to marry Uriona, however, their sons will not be in line for the throne. Vixa tells Coryphene that Uriona is going to marry Elendar, and so Coryphene commits suicide, because he loved Uriona passionately, so followed all of her wishes and commands. However, Uriona always thought of him as a tool to help her achieve her dreams. Vixa and Gundabyr are given a griffin to ride to Thorbardin, where she drops Gundabyr off. Then, she rides back to Qualinesti, and is joyfully received by her parents, who thought her dead. They hold a feast in her honor, and her story is spread throughout the realm. Since their daughter can carry responsibility now, she is given command of the Wildrunners. She begins to feel a calling to return to the sea, so days later she abandons her post, writes a letter to her parents saying good bye, and goes to live underwater as Naxos's wife.

Characters
Vixa Ambrodel - A warrior princess of Qualinost.
Garnath - A dwarf, also held captive by the Dargonesti.
Gundabyr - Garnath's twin, also held captive.
Coryphene - Protector of the city of Urione.
Naxos - The leader of the sea brothers, who can turn into dolphins and help guard Urione.

Reception
Jonathan Palmer reviewed The Dargonesti for Arcane magazine, rating it a 6 out of 10 overall. He cautioned that, "As a piece of literature, this hardly deserves your time", but felt that for players of Dungeons & Dragons he recommended that "there are numerous creatures and concepts of interest".

See also

References

1995 American novels
American fantasy novels
Dragonlance novels
Dwarves in popular culture
Underwater novels