[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Claudia Jones

Helen, "Alice Childress, Lorraine Hansberry and Claudia Jones: Black Women Write the Popular Front", in Bill V. Mullin and James Smethurst (eds), Left of the Color Line: Race, Radicalism and 20th Century United States Literature. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2003.

External links

 List of 100 Great Black Britons 
 "Claudia Jones", Exploring 20th Century London.
 "Mother of the Mas", biodata for Claudia Cumberbatch Jones, Fox Carnival Band.
 Ian Thomson, "Here To Stay", The Guardian, 29 August 2009 – article on Donald Hinds, referencing Claudia Jones.
 "Claudia Jones The Black Woman that created London Carnival", blackhistorywalks, 27 March 2009. YouTube video.
 Anna Clarke, "Remembering Claudia Jones, pioneer of the Notting Hill Carnival", The Daily Telegraph, 26 September 2018.
 Subversives: Stories from the Red Scare. Lesson by Ursula Wolfe-Rocca (Claudia Jones is featured in this lesson).

1915 births
1964 deaths
20th-century deaths from tuberculosis
20th-century journalists
African-American feminists
African-American Marxists
American communists
American emigrants to England
American feminists
American Marxist journalists
American Marxists
American women journalists
Black British activists
Black British women writers
British communists
British feminists
British Marxist journalists
British Marxists
British socialists
British women activists
British women Marxists
Burials at Highgate Cemetery
Marxist feminists
Members of the Communist Party USA
New York (state) socialists
Notting Hill
People convicted under the Smith Act
People deported from the United States
People from Harlem
People from Notting Hill
People from Port of Spain
Prisoners and detainees of the United States federal government
Radical feminists
Trinidad and Tobago activists
Trinidad and Tobago communists
Trinidad and Tobago emigrants to the United Kingdom
Trinidad and Tobago feminists
Trinidad and Tobago journalists
Trinidad and Tobago socialists
Trinidad and Tobago women journalists
Tuberculosis deaths in England
Women Marxists