[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Casa del Fascio (Como)

ibeskind, Rafael Moneo and Peter Eisenman. The celebrations officially began on 18 April 2004, on the architect's birthday, and ended on 30 November. These events helped raise public awareness of the importance of Terragni's works in the history of architecture, not only in Italy but also worldwide.

In 2016 the eightieth anniversary of the construction of Casa del Fascio was celebrated and painter Fabrizio Musa from Como, in collaboration with the Maarc Association (Museo virtuale astrattismo architettura razionalista Como – Virtual museum Abstractism Rationalist Architecture Como), decided to pay homage to the architect's work by projecting the number Eighty on the main facade of Piazza del Popolo with the dates 1936-2016, to make the population participate in this remarkable achievement.

Casa del Fascio currently houses the Command of the VI Legion of the Italian Finance Police, but in February 2017 a petition was launched proposing its re-use for cultural purposes, namely as a museum of rationalism and abstractionism.

Description 
During totalitarianism monumental architectures were often used as a propaganda of the Government ideologies: what their language has in common was the desire to privilege functional aspects of architecture, removing decoration and making sure that the form was subordinated to the function. Hence, the rigour and the functionalism promoted by the Fascist regime are translated into the constructive shapes of Casa del Fascio.

Interiors 
The Casa del Fascio has a square plan of 33,20 m of side for a height of 16,60 m, equal to half of the base and corresponding to four floors in total. The entrance of the building is raised from the Piazza del Popolo by four steps leading to the access landing.

Through the glass doors on the ground floor lies the Atrium, characterized by a false ceiling covered with Nero di Belgio marble that, with its strong visual impact, prepares the visitor to see the Sacrario dei Martiri Fascisti, one of the most significant and emblematic spaces of the building. Because of its ideological and spiritual function, the Sacrario was then deprived of its original function and transformed into a place to celebrate the deads of the VI Legion of the Italian Finance Police. In the Atrium, but on the opposite side of the Sacrario, there is the main staircase, which is the cornerstone of the internal distribution. The crux of the Casa del Fascio, however, is the so-called Salone delle Adunate, a large central double-height room illuminated through a skylight made of concrete-frame glass block. Currently plastered white hue, in the past it was painted with a delicate light blue-green colour, probably applied to the upper limit of the beams skylight. This huge space originally contained the panels designed by the artist Mario Radice: a marble stele and a large image of the Duce on a glass support, dismantled after the post-war occupation of the building.

The gallery on the first floor overlooks the Salone delle Adunate and connected the offices once intended for the Political Secretariat, the Sala del Direttorio and the Political Secretary's office.

The second floor follows the distribution system of the first floor: the only difference is that gallery overlooks the roof of the Salone delle Adunate on which the inner courtyard opens. This is characterized by the alternation of walls covered with glass-ceramic tiles (south-east and north-west sides) and walls made of concrete-frame glass blocks (south-west and north-east sides). The roof of the Salone delle Adunate, which is the floor of the inner courtyard, consists of three parts: two lateral parts in concrete-frame glass block and the central walkway. From the internal gallery on the second floor one can access the rooms that were originally used for offices and administration.

On the top floor two open galleries divide the part originally intended for university groups from the part formerly reserved for the archive and the caretaker's accommodation. It is possible to reach this last floor exclusively from the secondary staircase, while the other two are reachable also through the main staircase.

Inside the Casa del Fascio, in addition to the already mentioned Nero di Belgio marble, were also used Pietra di Trani, the Giallo Adriatico marble and the Col di Lana marble.

Facades 

The facades composition is based on golden ratio and clear geometrical proportions. These are made up of opaque parts, covered with Calcare di Bottincino slabs, and translucent parts of concrete-frame glass blocks. (Dal Falco, 2003, pp. 22–24) The four facades, equal in size, are different in architectural motifs and in the relationships between full and empty spaces, while maintaining their coherence for the materials used and for the structural rhythms.