[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Capital punishment in Malaysia

ecognition that such a sentence only punishes the drug mules and not those higher up in the chain. There was also the fact that the death penalty does not seem to have the deterring effect that such a penalty was hoped to create, thus questioning the need for the penalty for that particular offence.

Notable cases 
 Barlow and Chambers execution, the first two Westerners hanged in independent Malaysia on 7 July 1986.
 Derrick Gregory, a British labourer who was executed on 21 July 1989 by hanging, for drug trafficking offences.
 Michael McAuliffe, Australian drug smuggler and barman executed in 1993.
 40-year-old Ahmad Najib Aris, a former aircraft cleaning supervisor who was executed on 23 September 2016, by hanging for murdering IT consultant Canny Ong.
 Brothers Ramesh and Sasivarnam Jayakumar along with Gunasegar Pitchaymuthu were convicted of murder and executed on 25 March 2016 by hanging. This execution was conducted in secret, and their families were only given two days notice before the men were hanged.
 Maria Elvira Pinto Exposto, an Australian, was arrested in December 2014 in Kuala-Lumpur Airport while in transit and was found to be in possession of 1.1 kg of crystal methamphetamine. She faced a mandatory death penalty, was acquitted by the court, but the prosecutors appealed. The appeal court vacated the acquittal decision, and in May 2018 she was sentenced to death. On 26 November 2019, the Malaysian High Court acquitted her and ordered an immediate release.
 Sangeeta Sharma Brahmacharimayum, an Indian beautician sentenced to death for smuggling 1,637.1g of methamphetamine in October 2016.
Muhammad Lukman, whose death sentence for distributing Cannabis extract for medical purposes sparked public outcry and led to a national review of both the Death Penalty and drug laws
Mona Fandey, a Malaysian actress, murderer and witchcraft supporter. She was executed next to her husband and with another accomplice.
Botak Chin, a Malaysian criminal and gangster who was convicted of possession of firearms and armed robbery, and he was sentenced to death for the capital crime of possessing firearms. He was hanged on 11 June 1981, at the age of 30.
Sunny Ang, a Singaporean who murdered his girlfriend Jenny Cheok during a scuba diving trip in the waters of Sisters' Islands, Singapore in August 1963 when Singapore was still a part of Malaysia. The crime shocked both Singapore and Malaysia as the first case of murder without a body in both countries, and Ang was subsequently convicted and sentenced to death by the High Court of Singapore for murder in May 1965 solely based on circumstantial evidence and without Cheok's body. Ang was eventually hanged in Singapore's Changi Prison on 6 February 1967 (at the time of the execution, Singapore has separated from Malaysia since 9 August 1965 – three months after the end of Ang's trial).
Tan Kheng Ann and another 17 members out of the 58 detainees charged with killing four prison officers during the Pulau Senang prison riots on 12 July 1963. These 18 men were found guilty of murder in March 1964 by the High Court of Singapore in the largest trial ever held in both Singapore and Malaysia, and a year later, on 29 October 1965, two months and twenty days after Singapore separated from Malaysia, the 18 men were hanged at Singapore's Changi Prison.
 Lorraine and Aaron Cohen were two New Zealander drug smugglers sentenced to death in Malaysia in the mid 80s. Their sentences were later reduced and they were sent back to New Zealand.
 American woman Brenda Ferguson was arrested in 1994 for smuggling drugs into the country. She was sentenced to death and her sentence was reduced a year later.

See also 

 Crime in Malaysia
 Law of Malaysia
 Capital punishment in Singapore

References

 
Murder in Malaysia