[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park

s."

Gates of Peace
Added in 2005, this monument contains ten gates covered with the word "peace" in 49 languages from around the world. The gates represent the nine circles of Hell plus one: "the living hell of Hiroshima caused by the atomic bombing." Each gate is 9 meters high and 2.6 meters wide.

Memorial Tower to the Mobilized Students
The Association for the Mobilized Student Victims of Hiroshima Prefecture built this tower in May 1967 in order to console the souls of over 10,000 students, including those who were Atomic Bomb victims, who died in bombings during the Pacific War. In Hiroshima, there were 8,387 students who were mobilized; 6,907 of which were killed in the Atomic Bombing. The memorial is twelve meters tall, five stories, and is decorated with the Goddess of Peace as well as eight doves which are placed around the tower. To the sides of the tower are plaques which depict the work that the students did, such as factory work, female students sewing, or showing students working to increase food production. There is a plaque in front of the tower which has two buttons that narrate the background information in either Japanese or English.

Other monuments
 Pond of Peace – encircling the Cenotaph
 Peace Clock Tower
 A-bombed Gravestone – gravestone of Jisenji temple – the temple used to be there
 Peace Fountain
 Monument to the Old Aioi Bridge
 Phoenix Trees Exposed to the A-bomb – also known as Chinese Parasols, these trees have deep scars from the blast. They were moved here from the courtyard of the former Hiroshima Post & Telecommunications Office in 1973.
 Linden Tree Monument
 Hair Monument
 Hiroshima City Zero Milestone
 Peace Cairn
 Stone Lantern of Peace
 Friendship Monument
 Peace Memorial Post
 Peace Tower
 Fountain of Prayer – a small fountain pond
 Monument of Prayer
 Prayer Monument for Peace
 Prayer Haiku Monument for Peace
 Hiroshima Monument for the A-bomb Victims
 Statue of Mother and Child in the Storm
 Peace Watch Tower – indicating the number of days since the A-bomb
 Statue of Peace "New Leaves" – from the words of Dr.Hideki Yukawa – designed, carved by Katsuzo Entsuba
 Statue of Merciful Mother
 Statue of a Prayer for Peace
 The Figure of the Merciful Goddess of Peace (Kannon)
 Mobilized Students' Merciful Kannon Monument
 Hiroshima Second Middle School A-bomb Memorial Monument
 Memorial Monument of the Hiroshima Municipal Commercial and Shipbuilding Industry Schools
 Monument to the A-bombed Teachers and Students of National Elementary Schools
 A-bomb Monument of the Hiroshima Municipal Girl's High School
 Monument Dedicated to Sankichi Tōge
 Monument to Tamiki Hara
 Literary Monument Dedicated to Miekichi Suzuki
 Monument in Memory of Dr.Marcel Junod
 Clock Commemorating the Repatriation of Those Who Chose to Return to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea
 Monument of the Former North Tenjin-cho Area
 Monument of the Former South Tenjin-cho Area
 Monument of the Former Zaimoku-cho
 Memorial Tower for A-bomb-related Victims
 Memorial Tower to Console A-bomb Victims
 Monument in Memory of the Korean Victims of the A-bomb
 Monument of the Volunteer Army Corps
 Monument of "Zensonpo"(All Japan Nonlife Insurance Labor Union)
 Monument to Those Who Died From the Chūgoku-Shikoku Public Works Office
 Monument of the Hiroshima District Lumber Control Corporation
 Monument Dedicated to Construction Workers and Artisans
 Monument to the Employees of the Hiroshima Post Office
 Monument of the Hiroshima Gas Corporation
 Monument to the Employees of the Coal Control-related Company
 Monument for the A-bomb Victims from the Hiroshima Agricultural Association
 Monument to Mr. Norman Cousins
 Monument of US POWS {at former Chugoku MP HQ}

Festivals

Hiroshima Flower Festival

Hiroshima Flower Festival is held from the 3rd of May to the 5th during Japanese Golden Week, in the Peace Park and Peace Boulevard.

Hiroshima Dreamination

Hiroshima Dreamination is held in winter.

Access
 Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park bus stop
 Hiroden Genbaku Dome-mae Station
 Hiroden Chuden-mae Station
 Astram Hondōri Station

See also
 Hiroshima Peace Memorial (Atomic Bomb Dome)
 Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum
 Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
 Sadako Sasaki
 Children's Peace Monument
 Hiroshima National Peace Memorial Hall for the Atomic Bomb Victims
 Hiroshima Peace Memorial Ceremony
 Hiroshima Witness
 Nagasaki Peace Park
 Norman Cousins
 Marcel Junod
 Peace Boulevard
 Honkawa Elementary School Peace Museum
 Fukuromachi Elementary School Peace Museum

References

External links 

 Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum (Guide to Peace Memorial Park)
 Hiroshima National Peace Memorial Hall for the Atomic Bomb Victims
 Hiroshima Peace Camp 2011
 hiroshima peace memorial park blog in japanese
 Peace Message, Lantern Ceremony, 2009
 U.S. Attending 2010 Hiroshima Memorial – video report by Democracy Now!