[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Estat Català

Estat Català (, literally "Catalan State") is a pro-independence nationalist historical political party of Catalonia (Spain).

History

Estat Català is a historical pro-independence political party in Catalonia, Spain. It was founded by Francesc Macià in 1922, on its origins as a political nacional organisation and fighting of Catalan Nationalism whose purpose was to insurrect to the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera and bring about the independence of Catalonia from Spain in an international context. During the 1920s, the party was active in the fight against General Primo de Rivera's regime and the monarchy. Their actions included a failed assassination attempt against the King of Spain Alfonso XIII in an operation of its secret paramilitary unit named Santa Germandat Catalana de la Bandera Negra (Holy Catalan Brotherhood of the Black Flag) that was known as the Complot de Garraf (Conspiracy of Garraf). Estat Català also raised a small army named Exèrcit Català (Catalan Army) led by Francesc Macià to take control over the Principality from Prats-de-Mollo-la-Preste, in French Northern Catalonia.

When the government of Primo de Rivera banned separatist movements, the party became clandestine and Francesc Macià went into exile. Nonetheless, Estat Català was one of the parties promoting the "San Sebastian pact" with Basque nationalism, Galician nationalists and Spanish republicans they agreed to push for a democratic process in the Spanish monarchy.

During a conference held on the 17 and 19 of March 1931 at Cros street in the Sants district of Barcelona, Estat Català joined the Partit Republicà Català and the political group L'Opinió to form Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. Nevertheless, inside Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, the organizational autonomy of Estat Català was preserved and it controlled the influential youth section of the party (known as Joventuts d'Esquerra Republicana-Estat Català and, across Francesc Macià, his controlled the leadership of the new party.

In April 1931, Francesc Macià proclaimed the Catalan Republic in Barcelona, and established the Generalitat de Catalunya. Francesc Macià, with the support of a wide majority of the Catalan people, was the first president of the re-established Generalitat. After Francesc Macià's death (December, 1933) Estat Català tried to retain control of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, competing with the successor of Macià, the regionalist (rather than independentist) Lluís Companys (whose political background was in the Partit Republicà Català). The leadership of Estat Català fell to Josep Dencàs i Puigdollers and Estat Català took control of the Council of Interior and the policial forces of Catalonia. After the failure of the armed insurrection of October 1934, that pitted the autonomous government of Catalunya and its police with the Spanish government and the Spanish Army, Estat Català, after accusing Lluís Companys of perfidity, left Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and once again became an independent party. The youth section of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, traditionally strongly paramilitary, also left the party and adhered to Estat Català. In 1936 the Spanish Civil War began.

In November 1936 Estat Català planned a violent coup, intended to topple the Companys-led Generalitat. The plan was to declare total independence of Catalonia as a state neutral in the Spanish Civil War, but security services mounted a pre-emptive strike; some EC leaders were detained and some fled to France. Under new leadership the Estat Català members then fought actively on the war fronts, creating its own corps of volunteers, the most important military units of Estat Català being the Pyrenaic mountain militias named Regiment Pirinenc de Catalunya, the Columna Macià-Companys and the expeditionary corp that fought in Majorca named Columna Volant Catalana (later 132 Brigada Mixta.

Estat Català were opposed to the revolutionary process in Catalonia during the war and to president Lluís Companys's delivery of power to anarchist syndicates. Relations between Estat Català and Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya became very bad. Estat Català planned a conspiracy to take control of the Autonomous government of Catalonia using its military units and the police of Catalonia for re-lead the situation using the force to be able to proclaim Catalonia's independence. The conspiracy to be discovered in September 1936 and the principal leaders of Estat Català were forced to flee to France.

From 1939, having lost the war, many of the combatants of the party were executed or died in exile. Also, some militants in exile in France were captured by the French government, handed to the German nazis and deported to the extermination camps of Mauthausen and Gusen. Those who stayed free joined the French Resistance and had worked intensely to help allied airmen and Jews to escape from occupied France and against the Francoist State up to his death.