[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hellenic Police

General.

Northern Greece
 East Macedonia and Thrace region
 Central Macedonia region
 West Macedonia region
 Thessaly region
 Epirus region
 North Aegean region

Southern Greece
 Central Greece region
 Peloponnese region
 West Greece region
 Ionian Islands region
 South Aegean region
 Crete region

Special services 
The Hellenic Police force has several special services divisions under the authority of the Chief of Police and working in conjunction with regional and other police sectors where necessary, these are as follows:
 
 Crime Prevention and Suppression Groups ( - ) 
 Cyber Crime Division ( - ) 
 Special Violent Crime Squad ( - ) 
 Forensic Science Division ( - ) 
 Division of Internal Affairs ( - ) 
 International Police Cooperation Division ( - )
 Informatics Division ( - )  
 Special Suppressive Antiterrorist Unit ( - )  
 Department of Explosive Devices Disposal ( - ) 
 Hellenic Police Air Force Service ( - ) 
 Zeta Group (motorcycle police) ( - )  
 Groups of Bicycle-mounted Police (motorcycle police) ( - )   
 Action Group (motorcycle police) ( - , former Force of Control Fast Confrontation -  - ) 
 Special Guards ( - ) 
 Border Guards ( - )
 Traffic Police (also known as Road Traffic Police) ( - ) 
 Units for the Reinstatement of (Public) Order (Riot Police, or Police Riot Units) ( - ) 
 Group of Police Dogs ( - )    
 University Institutions Protection Groups ( - )   
 Tourist Police ( - ). With the law 6450/1935, Government Gazette 14/A/13-1-1935, was founded the Tourist Police Directorate () which initially was Directorate of the Greek National Tourism Organization (EOT) having police officers from Hellenic Gendarmerie and the Cities Police. The Tourist Police Directorate of EOT was abolished by the Mandatory Law 297/1968, Government Gazette 38/A/22-2-1968, replacing by two Tourist Police directorates, one of the Hellenic Gendarmerie Headquarters and one of the Cities Police Headquarters respectively. With the law 1481/1984, Government Gazette 152/A/8-10-1984, the Tourist Police was abolished and its services assigned to the local police stations and units making in-house tourist offices in which were abolished thereafter by the Presidential Decree 508/1989, Government Gazette 216/A/3-10-1989. In 1993 Tourist Police re-founded. With the articles 101 and 105 of the Presidential Decree 7/2017, Government Gazette 14/A/9-2-2017, created the Stations and Units of the Tourist Police at the Hellenic Police Directorates at several prefectures.

Personnel

Ranks of the Hellenic Police Force

History

19th century   

Though there was what constituted a police force under the provisional Government of Greece during the Greek War of Independence, the first organized police force in Greece was the Greek Gendarmerie which was established in 1833 after the enthronement of King Otho. It was at that time formally part of the army and under the authority of the Defence Ministry (later the entirety of the organization including the Police Academy was brought under its authority). A city police force was also established but its role remained a secondary one in comparison to the Army's role (mainly dealing with illegal gambling, a severe problem at the time), several foreign advisers (particularly from Bavaria, which emphasized elements of centralization and authoritarianism), were also brought in to provide training and tactical advice to the newly formed Police force. The main task of the police force under the army as a whole during this period was firstly to combat theft but also to contribute to the establishment of a strong executive government.

The army's links to the police and the nature of the structure of the police force and its hierarchy (that of being similar to the army) was maintained throughout the 19th century for a number of reasons. Largely the socio-political unrest that characterized the period including disproportionate poverty, governmental oppression, sporadic rebellions and political instability. As a result of this, as well as the input of the armed forces, the police force remained a largely conservative body throughout the period, there was also a certain amount of politicization during training as the police force were trained in military camps.

20th century