[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Treaty of Stuhmsdorf

The Treaty of Stuhmsdorf (), or Sztumska Wieś (), was a treaty signed on 12 September 1635 between the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and the Swedish Empire in the village of Stuhmsdorf, Poland (now Sztumska Wieś, Poland), just south of Stuhm (Sztum).

The treaty introduced a truce for  years. Sweden, weakened by its involvement in the Thirty Years' War, agreed to the terms, which were mostly favourable to the Commonwealth in terms of territorial concessions. The Commonwealth regained many of the territories that he had lost in the past decades of the Polish–Swedish War, but the treaty was also beneficial to Sweden and its allies (France, England and the Dutch Republic), which wanted Sweden to be able to concentrate on the Thirty Years' War in the Holy Roman Empire without the need to worry about possible conflict with the Commonwealth.

The truce lasted until 1655, when Sweden invaded the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth during the Second Northern War.

Background

Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth
The Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was divided. King Władysław IV Vasa of Poland, from the Swedish House of Vasa, wanted to regain the Swedish crown, which had been held and then lost by his father, Sigismund III. As that was a daunting task, his less-ambitious motivations were to gain fame and strengthen his position in the Commonwealth, whose Golden Liberties made the king's position among the weakest in Europe. He hoped that the goals would be achieved by the war and argued that the Commonwealth could gain more by warring with Sweden, but he was also not averse to peaceful resolution if it gave him what he wanted. He thought that the negotiations gave him the opportunity to trade his right to the Swedish crown for a hereditary claim to one of the regained lands (he was supported by the primate of Poland, Jan Wężyk), and he entrusted that matter to the Prussian mediators.

His szlachta (nobility) advisors, representing the legislature (Sejm), were not convinced that the war would be beneficial, but many (like Chancellor and Bishop Jakub Zadzik, Hetman Stanisław Koniecpolski and Royal Secretary and Voivode Stanisław Lubomirski) agreed that the Swedes had to leave Poland by negotiations if possible but by war if necessary. Few, however, wished the war to continue for the sake of helping Władysław regain the Swedish crown, and, as usual, there was much disagreement between his allies, who wanted to strengthen his power, and those who feared that any victory for the king would mean loss for the nobility.

Sweden
After the recent setbacks that Sweden and its allies suffered in Germany, such as the Battle of Nördlingen and the defection of the Electorate of Saxony, the Swedish negotiating position had been somewhat weakened. Nonetheless, the Swedes realised that their recent gains in Germany were much less easy to defend than the territories they captured from the Commonwealth in Prussia and Livonia and so they preferred to sacrifice German to Prussian territories. They were, however, willing to give up their conquests in Prussia if Władysław renounced his claim to the Swedish crown and the Swedes retained their conquests in Livonia.

Sweden's position was also weakened by the disagreements in its government, as there was a power struggle between Chancellor Axel Oxenstierna and his opponents in the Swedish Riksdag. Some of the struggles led to leaks that gave leverage to the Polish.

International involvement
Many European powers were interested in the outcome of the negotiations and were also named as mediators by the 1629 Truce of Altmark, which gave them ample opportunity to influence the outcome of the Polish–Swedish negotiations.

France, England and Netherlands
Peace between Poland and Sweden was also supported by French Cardinal Richelieu, who wanted to weaken the Holy Roman Empire by using Sweden and German Protestants to keep Germany divided and embroiled in conflict. To that end, he needed Sweden to remain in the Thirty Years' War and therefore wanted ensure Poland's neutrality. Richelieu had no wish to see Poland open a second front in Prussia and so he dispatched Claude d'Avaux, one of his trusted negotiators.

French efforts were supported by the Dutch and English ambassadors at the conference and expedited by a lavish flow of money. England sent the former military commander Sir George Douglas with instructions to support Władysław, especially as there were negotiations between Poland and England on a possible marriage between Władysław and an English princess, which eventually failed. Dutch envoys included Rochus van den Honaert, Andries Bicker and Joachim Andraee.