[Source: PubMed]

20. BMJ Glob Health. 2022 May;7(5):e008477. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2022-008477.

Assessing the burden of COVID-19 in developing countries: systematic review, 
meta-analysis and public policy implications.

Levin AT(1)(2), Owusu-Boaitey N(3), Pugh S(4), Fosdick BK(5), Zwi AB(6), Malani 
A(7), Soman S(8), Besançon L(9), Kashnitsky I(10), Ganesh S(11), McLaughlin 
A(11), Song G(11), Uhm R(11), Herrera-Esposito D(12), de Los Campos G(13), 
Peçanha Antonio ACP(14), Tadese EB(15), Meyerowitz-Katz G(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)Economics, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA.
(2)National Bureau for Economic Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(4)Statistics, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado, USA.
(5)Department of Statistics, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado, 
USA.
(6)School of Social Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(7)Law School, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(8)Harris School of Public Policy, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 
USA.
(9)Faculty of Information and Technology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 
Australia.
(10)Interdisciplinary Centre on Population Dynamics, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark.
(11)Department of Economics, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA.
(12)Laboratorio de Neurociencias, Universidad de la República, Montevideo, 
Uruguay.
(13)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, Michigan, USA.
(14)Adult Intensive Care Unit, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Porto 
Alegre, Brazil.
(15)Ethiopian Public Health Institute, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(16)Western Sydney Diabetes, Western Sydney Local Health District, Blacktown, 
New South Wales, Australia gideon.meyerowitzkatz@health.nsw.gov.au.
(17)School of Health and Society, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, New 
South Wales, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: The infection fatality rate (IFR) of COVID-19 has been carefully 
measured and analysed in high-income countries, whereas there has been no 
systematic analysis of age-specific seroprevalence or IFR for developing 
countries.
METHODS: We systematically reviewed the literature to identify all COVID-19 
serology studies in developing countries that were conducted using 
representative samples collected by February 2021. For each of the antibody 
assays used in these serology studies, we identified data on assay 
characteristics, including the extent of seroreversion over time. We analysed 
the serology data using a Bayesian model that incorporates conventional sampling 
uncertainty as well as uncertainties about assay sensitivity and specificity. We 
then calculated IFRs using individual case reports or aggregated public health 
updates, including age-specific estimates whenever feasible.
RESULTS: In most locations in developing countries, seroprevalence among older 
adults was similar to that of younger age cohorts, underscoring the limited 
capacity that these nations have to protect older age groups.Age-specific IFRs 
were roughly 2 times higher than in high-income countries. The median value of 
the population IFR was about 0.5%, similar to that of high-income countries, 
because disparities in healthcare access were roughly offset by differences in 
population age structure.
CONCLUSION: The burden of COVID-19 is far higher in developing countries than in 
high-income countries, reflecting a combination of elevated transmission to 
middle-aged and older adults as well as limited access to adequate healthcare. 
These results underscore the critical need to ensure medical equity to 
populations in developing countries through provision of vaccine doses and 
effective medications.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2022-008477
PMCID: PMC9136695
PMID: 35618305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.