[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Mobei

es and pursued the remainder another 100 miles to the Khangai Mountains where they besieged then captured the Fortress of Zhao Xin located in the Orkhon Valley. After a day spent regrouping and receiving fresh supplies, the Han forces burned the stronghold to the ground, before returning in triumph.

Wei Qing's eastern division, commanded by Li Guang and Zhao Shiqi, got lost in the desert and missed the battle entirely, only rejoining the main force on Wei Qing's way home. As a result, Li and Zhao were summoned to a court martial for failing to accomplish orders and putting the battle strategy at risk. Li Guang, frustrated and humiliated as this was his last chance to obtain sufficient battle distinctions to receive a marquessate as a reward, committed suicide to preserve his honour.

For the western theatre, the battle proved strategically decisive. Chanyu's main forces was so badly defeated that they were unable to recover. The Chanyu went missing for over 10 days, resulting in his tribe presuming he was dead and installing a new leader who had to be removed after the Chanyu finally reappeared. The Xiongnu were forced to retreat further north with their threat to the Han Dynasty's northern border largely obliterated.

Aftermath
The costs of the victorious campaigns over the Xiongnu in the ten years from 129 to 119 BC were enormous: the Han army lost almost 80% of their horses on these expeditions, due to combat as well as non-combative losses such as the harsh journey and plague caused by the Xiongnu contaminating the water supply with dead cattle.

Economic pressure on the central Han government led to new taxes being introduced, increasing the burden on average peasants.  The registered population of the Han Empire dropped significantly as a result of famine and excessive taxing to fund military mobilisations.

The Xiongnu, however, suffered an even more lethal blow, as their military losses would reflect directly on their economy.  Apart from loss of manpower due to wartime casualties and diseases, the nomadic Xiongnu lost millions of livestock, their vital food resource, to the Han army, and the war left a large proportion of the remaining cattle suffering miscarriages during their reproductive seasons.

Furthermore, the loss of control over the fertile southern grassland meant that Xiongnu had to hole up in the cold, barren land of the northern Gobi Desert and Siberia, struggling to survive.  As a result, there was a true truce between the Han Dynasty and Xiongnu for seven years, which ended after a Xiongnu raid in 112 BC at Wuyuan.  The Xiongnu, however, never recovered to the strength of their past glory days, and would break apart into smaller clans in the coming decades, ultimately splitting into Southern and Northern branches after a century later, as the Southern branches become the subordinates of the Han Dynasty. With the Northern branches being under attack from the southern branches, the Han empire and other Nomadic tribes such as the Wuhuan and Xianbei,  gain independence from the Xiongnu overlords, forcing the Northern branches to immigrate westward. Eventually, the fleeing Northern branches of Xiongnu became the ancestors of the Huns, which would cause indirect destruction and dissolution of the Western Roman Empire in the following centuries. While others migrated south of central Asia becoming the Xionites, Kidarites, Hephthalites and Nezak Huns, indirectly causing the collapse of the Gupta Empire, and becoming a major burden to the Sassanid Empire.

Notes

References
Ban Gu et al., Hanshu. Beijing: Zhonghua Shuju, 1962. 
Sima Guang, comp. Zizhi Tongjian. Beijing: Zhonghua Shuju, 1956. 
Lin, Gan, "Mobei Zhi Zhan" ("The Battle of Mobei"). Encyclopedia of China, 1st ed.
 Yap, Joseph P. pp 186–194. "Wars With The Xiongnu, A Translation From Zizhi tongjian" AuthorHouse (2009) 

119 BC
Mobei 119 BC
Mobei 119 BC
2nd century BC in China