[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Liga Veneta

(in order to get rid of some of his ministers who happened to be tosiani) and have a final say on the compilation of the party's slates, Tosi, who defended the position of long-time regional councillors and ministers, claimed his authority and the autonomy of the LV in relation to the federal party.

In early March the struggle between Tosi and Zaia–Salvini led the former to threaten a run in competition with Zaia in the regional election and Lega Nord's federal council to appoint Dozzo as a mediator between Tosi and Zaia. The internal clashes led three regional councillors to quit the party in the Regional Council: Vittorino Cenci joined Veneto First, while LV's president Baggio and Matteo Toscani launched the pro-Tosi "Venetian Commitment". All three disagreed with a perceived party's rightward shift under Salvini, while Cenci contested also Tosi and the party's engagement in southern politics through Us with Salvini (NcS). 

After a long struggle between Tosi and Salvini, the latter acknowledged the former's relinquishment from party member, on the grounds that Tosi had refused to ditch his think tank, named "Let's Rebuild the Country", and appointed Dozzo commissioner for the LV. Consequently, Tosi decided to run for President against Zaia. Besides Baggio and Toscani, four more regional councillors (Stival, regional minister of Venetian Identity, and Giuseppe Stoppato, who formed, along with former Democrat Diego Bottacin, a group named "Toward North–Venetian People", Conte, regional minister of the Environment, and Andrea Bassi), three deputies, three senators and Muraro (president of the province of Treviso), followed Tosi, while two factional leaders, Finozzi (regional minister of Tourism and International Trade) and Bizzotto MEP, chose not to. In the meantime, Venetian Agreement changed its name into "Tosi List for Veneto" (LTV).

2015 regional election and aftermath
The election was a triumph for Zaia, who was re-elected with 50.1% of the vote, and Liga Veneta, which obtained 40.9% of the vote (combined result of official party list, 17.8%, and Zaia's personal list, 23.1%). Tosi and the two lists connected to the LTV won 11.9% and 7.1%, respectively, while other regionalist parties (Independence We Veneto, Venetian Independence, North-East Union, Autonomous Veneto Project and Veneto Confederal State) gained another 6.3% in what was the best result ever for both Venetist parties, which controlled the majority of the Regional Council for the first time, and Liga Veneta itself, which obtained 24 seats out of 51 in it.

After the election, Zaia unveiled his second government, composed of ten ministers, including nine Lighisti: Gianluca Forcolin (Vice President, Budget and Local Government), Luca Coletto (Health and Social Programs), Roberto Marcato (Economic Development and Energy), Elisa De Berti (Publick Works, Infrastructures and Transports), Giuseppe Pan (Agriculture, Hunting and Fishing), Manuela Lanzarin (Social Affairs), Federico Caner (EU Programs, Tourism and International Trade), Gianpaolo Bottacin (Environment and Civil Protection) and Cristiano Corazzari (Culture, City Planning and Security); Elena Donazzan (Education and Labour) represented Forza Italia.

In February 2015, during a national congress, Gianantonio Da Re, a long-time lighista from the province of Treviso, affiliate of Gobbo and now close to Zaia, was elected national secretary. Da Re's election represented a return to normality after the traumatic leadership and ousting of Tosi. Subsequently, Bitonci was appointed national president by the party's national council and, contextually, Fontana was appointed deputy federal secretary by Salvini.

After Salvini's re-election as LN federal secretary in the 2017 leadership election (with overwhelming support from Venetians, still grateful for Tosi's ousting), at the party's federal congress on 21 May 2017 three LV members (Fontana, Marcato and Erik Pretto) were elected to the federal council.

In the 2018 general election the party obtained 32.2% of the vote, its best result ever in a general election, and, under a new electoral law that had re-introduced single-seat constituencies, had 23 deputies (including Bitonci, who had been defeated in the early 2017 municipal election in Padua) and 9 senators elected. After months of negotiations, the LN formed a coalition government with the Five Star Movement (M5S), under Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte. Two LV members were appointed ministers in the government: Erika Stefani at Regional Affairs and Autonomies, and Lorenzo Fontana at Family and Disability.

In the 2019 European Parliament election the party reached 49.9% of the vote.