[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 121]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

tting his head to the ground, canted him into the air
several yards; and had not the spectators run and caught him upon their
backs and hands, he would have been crushed to pieces in the fall. The
same fate attended another, and another dog, which were let loose
successively; the one was killed upon the spot, while the other, who had
a leg broken in the fall, crawled howling and limping away. The bull, in
the meanwhile, behaved with all the calmness and intrepidity of an
experienced warrior; without violence, without passion, he waited every
attack of his enemies, and then severely punished them for their
rashness.

While this was transacting, to the diversion not only of the rude and
illiterate populace, but to that of the little gentry with Master
Merton, a poor, half-naked Black came up, and humbly implored their
charity. He had served, he told them, on board an English vessel, and
even showed them the scars of several wounds he had received; but now
he was discharged, and without friends, and without assistance, he could
scarcely find food to support his wretched life, or clothes to cover him
from the wintry wind.

Some of the young gentry, who, from a bad education, had been little
taught to feel or pity the distress of others, were base enough to
attempt to jest upon his dusky colour and foreign accent; but Master
Merton, who, though lately much corrupted and changed from what he had
been with Mr Barlow, preserved a great degree of generosity, put his
hand into his pocket in order to relieve him, but unfortunately found
nothing to give. The foolish profusion which he had lately learned from
the young gentlemen at his father's house, had made him waste in cards,
in playthings, in trifles, all his stock of money, and now he found
himself unable to relieve that distress which he pitied.

Thus repulsed on every side, and unassisted, the unfortunate Black
approached the place where Harry stood, holding out the tattered remains
of his hat, and imploring charity. Harry had not much to give, but he
took sixpence out of his pocket, which was all his riches, and gave it
with the kindest look of compassion, saying, "Here, poor man, this is
all I have; if I had more, it should be at your service." He had no time
to add more, for at that instant three fierce dogs rushed upon the bull
at once, and by their joint attacks rendered him almost mad. The calm
deliberate courage which he had hitherto shown was now changed into rage
and desperation: he roared with pain and fury; flashes of fire seemed to
come from his angry eyes, and his mouth was covered with foam and
blood. He hurried round the stake with incessant toil and rage, first
aiming at one, then at another of the persecuting dogs that harassed him
on every side, growling and baying incessantly, and biting him in every
part. At length, with a furious effort that he made, he trampled one of
his foes beneath his feet, and gored a second to that degree that his
bowels came through the wound, and at the same moment the cord, which
had hitherto confined him, snapped asunder, and let him loose upon the
affrighted multitude.

It is impossible to conceive the terror and dismay which instantly
seized the crowd of spectators. Those who before had been hallooing with
joy, and encouraging the fury of the dogs with shouts and acclamations,
were now scattered over the plain, and fled from the fury of the animal
whom they had been so basely tormenting. The enraged bull meanwhile
rushed like lightning over the plain, trampling some, goring others, and
taking ample vengeance for the injuries he had received. Presently he
rushed with headlong fury towards the spot where Master Merton and his
associates stood; all fled with wild affright, but with a speed that was
not equal to that of the pursuer. Shrieks, and outcries, and
lamentations were heard on every side; and those who, a few minutes
before, had despised the good advice of Harry, would now have given the
world to be safe in the houses of their parents. Harry alone seemed to
preserve his presence of mind; he neither cried out nor ran, but, when
the dreadful animal approached, leaped nimbly aside, and the bull passed
on, without embarrassing himself about his escape.

Not so fortunate was Master Merton; he happened to be the last of the
little troop of fliers, and full in the way which the bull had taken.
And now his destruction appeared certain; for as he ran, whether through
fear or the inequality of the ground, his foot slipped, and down he
tumbled in the very path of the enraged pursuing animal. All who saw
imagined his fate inevitable; and it would certainly have proved so, had
not Harry, with a courage and presence of mind above his years, suddenly
seized a prong which one of the fugitives had dropped, and at the very
moment when the bull was stooping to gore his defenceless friend,
advanced and wounded him in the flank. The bull in an instant