[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sandberg, California

hotel garage into a ceramics factory; her lease from the Forest Service amounted to $90 a year.

Lucky Stevens
Lucky Stevens, a sometime film actor, was running a ceramics business in Burbank when he met Grojean. In 1950 or 1951 he paid her $15,000 for the dilapidated hotel, outbuildings, and lease.

At first he had plans to install a swimming pool and a fishing pond and to reopen the property as a guest ranch. By that time, the lodge was in disrepair, with pigeons roosting among the rafters. Eight years later, he said he wanted to open the spread of  as a children's ranch, and he did succeed in acquiring money, furniture, and used clothing.

On April 29, 1961, fire destroyed the main lodge. Stevens was alone in the building. A district forest ranger said the blaze was apparently started by sparks from the chimney, and Stevens told an interviewer later that he had been burning trash when the flames began.

The Forest Service canceled Stevens' lease in 1963, and nothing remains on the site today but a historic marker, some stone steps, a bit of foundation, trees, and shrubbery.

Weather observation and fire station

A four-man weather station was established in 1933 at the windy peak of nearby Bald Mountain, which straddles the boundary between the maritime climate to the south and a drier climate to the north. In 1953, the weather observers had to visually check the instruments and manually transmit the information via Teletype.

In 1978, the Weather Service switched to an automated station, explaining, in the words of Los Angeles Times staff writer Marika Gerrard,  that "It was just too hard to find someone to live up in that remote region with nothing to do but record weather statistics every hour on  the hour." Nevertheless, in May 1981 reporter Gerrard found two people living at the station — a college student-caretaker and a man experimenting with the prototype of  a modular wind turbine.

The other two people living in Sandberg in that month were Willard Sparks, captain of the Quail Lake Fire Station, and his wife, Shirley. Sparks was responsible for covering  of forested land that included Sandberg, Gorman, Pyramid Lake, part of the Angeles Forest, and a stretch of Interstate 5 known as "Blood Alley" because of the frequent accidents there.

References

External links
 Ridgeroute.com, "the website dedicated to that curvy little road that united California."

Unincorporated communities in Los Angeles County, California
Sierra Pelona Ridge
Unincorporated communities in California