[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mount Victoria railway station

lation grilles along the concrete base. The interior consists of six bedrooms, and a communal kitchen and lounge room area. Floors are tiled and modern fluorescent lights have been installed. Rooms were refurbished with modern skirting boards, architraves, bathroom amenities, and kitchen facilities.

Site of former Station Master's Cottage (1868)
The site of former Station Master's Cottage was built in 1868 and was constructed of stone similar to the pointsman's cottage at Glenbrook. The cottage was located a short distance to the south of the station and continued to be occupied by successive station masters until the twentieth century. It was demolished in 1934 when it became redundant and in poor condition due to vacancy for a long period. The site of the former cottage is now in a park named after Errol Barden, a Blue Mountains Shire Council employee who took a special interest in the environment of Mount Victoria.

Platform 1 (1870)
Platform 1 is a curved side platform and constructed of part stone and part brick faced with concrete deck and asphalt finish. The platform is highly vegetated along the eastern side rocky escarpments with various mature trees, shrubs and potted plants along the length of the platform. The platform also features period and modern light fittings, timber bench seating, a number of early and modern signage and aluminium palisade fencing to both ends of the platform.

Platform 2 (1911)
Platform 2 is a roadside platform and constructed of brick faced with concrete deck and asphalt finish. It was widened at the time of duplication and the addition of the new awning. This platform is also highly vegetated with various mature trees, shrubs and potted plants along the length of the platform. It also features period and modern light fittings, timber bench seating, early and modern signage, an early bubbler and aluminium palisade fencing to both ends and along the street side of the platform.

Footbridge (1911)
The footbridge is a standard Warren truss trestle and stairway with Hardie board long plank timber deck and channel iron stair stringers. The railing is supported on curved mild steel brackets. The footbridge connects both platforms and as the station is situated in a cutting, it extends on one side to the top of the embankment to connect to Patrick Street in the east and Station Street to the west. The balustrades to the stairs are timber post and handrail with wire mesh infill while the sides of the bridge enclosed with corrugated metal sheeting.

Moveable items
Early Platform signs
Platform Lighting – pendant style period pole lighting in group of two or one pendants with decorative brackets and pole base
Bubbler on platform 2 near the waiting room
Seth Thomas brand clock ID # 2418 in the signal box
48 lever interlocking frame, CTC panel, signal tools, emergency board and equipment, boarded fireplace & chimney breast, glass fronted framed notice board, framed signal information board, 1956 book shelf and supports in the signal box
2 x L-shaped early timber seats in the Platform 1 waiting room
Early iron scale outside of SM's office on Platform 2
Period timber bench seats on both platforms

Landscape features
The setting of the station within the rock escarpment is the typical natural setting of the Blue Mountains stations. The station features a numerous collection of flora ranging from mature trees, shrubs and potted plants along both platforms, adding to the historic character of the station group.

Potential archaeological features
There are no known potential archaeological elements on the station. However, a number of remnant sidings, levers and giants from the earlier electrification system exist along the rock escarpment of Platform 1 and may have archaeological potential. The site of the former Station Master's cottage also has archaeological potential.

Condition 

Platform 1 Station Building – Good
Platform 2 Station Building – Generally Good Condition (cement render at the bottom of the stone walls detrimental to the stone walls)
Lavatory Blocks – Very Good externally
Signal Box – Very good
Barracks/Rest House – Generally in Good condition
Site of former SM's cottage – not inspected
Platforms – Good
Footbridge – Generally Good with evidence of natural wear & rusting

The overall integrity of the station and its buildings is high. The majority of the buildings at the station are intact with minor changes to their exteriors. Although modified, the barracks maintains their overall integrity at a moderate level. The footbridge has high integrity and intactness.