[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty of Payne's Landing

of the Apalachicola River after 1823 when the rest of the Seminoles had been forced into the new reservation. Gadsden was able to persuade the chiefs of these villages to move, however, and they went west in 1834. The United States Senate finally ratified the Treaty of Payne's Landing in April 1834.

Refusal to move
The treaty had given the Seminoles three years to move west of the Mississippi River. The government interpreted the three years as starting in 1832, and expected the Seminoles to move in 1835. Fort King, in what is now Ocala was reopened in 1834. A new Seminole agent, Wiley Thompson, was appointed in 1834, and the task of persuading the Seminoles to move fell to him. He called the chiefs together at Fort King in October 1834 to talk to them about the removal to the west. The Seminoles informed Thompson that they had no intention of moving, and that they did not feel bound by the Treaty of Payne's Landing. Thompson then requested reinforcements for Fort King and Fort Brooke, reporting that, "the Indians after they had received the Annuity, purchased an unusually large quantity of Powder & Lead." Brigadier General Duncan L. Clinch, United States Army commander for Florida, also warned Washington that the Seminoles did not intend to move, and that more troops would be needed to force them to move. In March 1835 Thompson called the chiefs together to read a letter from Andrew Jackson to them. In his letter, Jackson said, "Should you ... refuse to move, I have then directed the Commanding officer to remove you by force." The chiefs asked for thirty days to respond. A month later the Seminole chiefs told Thompson that they would not move west. Thompson and the chiefs began arguing, and General Clinch had to intervene to prevent bloodshed. Eventually, eight of the chiefs agreed to move west, but asked to delay the move until the end of the year, and Thompson and Clinch agreed.

Five of the most important of the Seminole chiefs, including Micanopy of the Alachua Seminoles, had not agreed to the move. In retaliation, Thompson declared that those chiefs were removed from their positions. As relations with the Seminoles deteriorated, Thompson forbid the sale of guns and ammunition to the Seminoles. Osceola, a young warrior beginning to be noticed by the whites, was particularly upset by the ban, feeling that it equated Seminoles with slaves and said, "The white man shall not make me black. I will make the white man red with blood; and then blacken him in the sun and rain ... and the buzzard live upon his flesh." In spite of this, Thompson considered Osceola to be a friend, and gave him a rifle. Later, though, when Osceola was causing trouble, Thompson had him locked up at Fort King for a night. The next day, in order to secure his release, Osceola agreed to abide by the Treaty of Payne's Landing and to bring his followers in.

The situation grew worse. In August 1835 Private Kinsley Dalton (for whom Dalton, Georgia is named) was killed by Seminoles as he was carrying the mail from Fort Brooke to Fort King. In November Chief Charley Emathla, wanting no part of a war, led his people towards Fort Brooke where they were to board ships to go west. This was considered a betrayal by other Seminoles. Osceola met Emathla on the trail and killed him. The Second Seminole War was beginning.

Signatories 

James Gadsden
Holati Emartla, his x mark
Jumper, his x mark
Fuch-ta-lus-ta-Hadjo, his x mark
Charley Emartla, his x mark
Coa Hadjo, his x mark
Ar-pi-uck-i, or Sam Jones, his x mark
Ya-ha Hadjo, his x mark
Mico-Noha, his x mark
Tokose-Emartla, or Jno. Hicks. his x mark
Cat-sha-Tusta-nuck-i, his x mark
Hola-at-a-Mico, his x mark (aka Billy Bowlegs)
Hitch-it-i-Mico, his x mark
E-ne-hah, his x mark
Ya- ha- emartla Chup- ko, his mark
Moke-his-she-lar-ni, his x mark

Witnesses:
Douglas Vass, Secretary to Commissioner,
John Phagan, Agent,
Stephen Richards, Interpreter,
Abraham, Interpreter, his x mark,
Cudjo, Interpreter, his x mark,
Erastus Rogers,
B. Joscan.

Notes and references

References 
 Missal, John and Mary Lou Missal. 2004. Seminole Wars: America's Longest Indian Conflict. Gainesville, Florida: University Press of Florida.

Further reading
 Knetsch, Joe. 2003. Florida's Seminole Wars 18171858. Charleston, South Carolina: Arcadia Publishing. 
 Mahon, John K. 1992 (Second paperback edition) [1967]. History of the Second Seminole War 18351842. Gainesville, Florida: University of Florida Press.

External links 
Treaty of Payne's Landing original text from johnhorse.com
Treaty of Payne's Landing original text from the Oklahoma State University Library

Payne's Landing
Seminole Wars
1832 treaties
1832 in the United States
May 1832 events