[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pandit Karuppan

taff of Caste Girls' High School, he joined the Victoria Girls' High School, Thrissur in 1918. Subsequently, he was posted at the Teacher Training School there. In 1921, he was again appointed to the Girls' High School, Ernakulam, which had by then dropped "Caste" from its name.

Legislative Council

During his second tenure at Girls' High School, in August 1925, he was nominated as a member of the Cochin Legislative Council to represent the hitherto disenfranchised classes, in recognition of his tireless crusade for their emancipation through writings and campaigns. As MLC, Karuppan presented their problems and grievances before the authorities arguing for better education, health and living conditions for them. He pressed the Government to establish a separate department for this purpose leading to the establishment of the department for the Protection of the Depressed Classes with the then Director of Public Instruction, Rao Sahib C. Mathai as ex-officio Protector and Karuppan as full-time Assistant Protector.

As Assistant Protector, Karuppan was instrumental in initiating several reforms for the progress of the depressed classes by starting schools and establishing colonies. He persuaded the Government to provide scholarships, fee concessions and a number of other incentives for the education of children from the depressed classes. He wrote Aacharabhooshanam to generate awareness among the depressed classes against superstitions, the book being printed and distributed free of cost to the public by the Government. The Depressed Classes Department was later renamed the Harijan Welfare Department.

Pandit Karuppan was instrumental in starting fishery schools under the re-organised Fisheries Department. The establishment of fish curing yards helped promote fisheries as an industry and improve living conditions among the fishing community. While serving as a director in the Cochin Central Co-operative Bank he urged fishermen and agricultural labourers to form co-operatives for progress through self-reliance.

When his three-year term on the Legislative Council expired, Karuppan was nominated for a second term but he requested that the Diwan give the post to some other member of the depressed classes. The Government appointed P.C. Chanchen, a Pulaya leader, as MLC and Karuppan tendered his resignation to make way for Chanchen.

Pandit Karuppan was then appointed as Secretary to the Elementary Education Committee and the Bhashaparishkarana Committee. In 1931, he assumed the newly created post of Superintendent of Vernacular Education of Cochin State. In 1932, he was appointed lecturer of Sanskrit at the Maharaja's College. During this time, Karuppan also served as chairman of the board of Examiners of the Madras University and as Member of the Municipal Council, Ernakulam.

Dramatic works

Baalakalesam is one of Pandit Karuppan's significant works and it was written as part of the shashtipoorthi celebrations of the Maharaja of Cochin in 1919 when Rao Sahib Nanperumal Chetty of Tamil Nadu organised a drama competition in the king's honour. Karuppan wrote the play under compulsion from guru Rama Pisharody in 10 days but, nervous and embarrassed to treat his beloved Maharaja as a character for the stage, Karuppan gave symbolic names to the characters in the drama. His creation was judged best and won the prize. It was named Baalaakalesam alluding to the State of Cochin as Queen Baala and the Maharaja as Kalesan her lord. The drama, dedicated to the Maharaja of Cochin, discussed the condition of the State before Kalesan became the King, and the progress the State achieved during his 16-year rule. The author did not forget to criticise the evils and atrocities suffered by people in the name of caste. Baalaakalesam was first staged in Maharaja's College, Ernakulam and Karuppan's friend Kottilil Narayana Marar, who was an upper caste Hindu, provided financial assistance to print the book.

The drama also carried suggestions for future reforms, like the formation of village panchayats, the constitution of a legislative council and the construction of a harbour at Cochin. After reading the drama's script, Sree Moolam Thirunal, the Maharaja of Travancore, presented a nine-jewelled gold ring (Navarathna Mothiram) to Karuppan. While submitting the copy of Baalaakalesam, Karuppan requested the Maharaja of Travancore to help students hailing from his community through education by providing them concessions in fees. The Maharaja promptly sanctioned a half-fee concession to all students of Dheevara community in Travancore State in appreciation of Karuppan's struggle for the betterment of backward communities.