[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Staffordshire Yeomanry

6 saw the 1st Cyclist Division broken up and the regiment was remounted along with the rest of the brigade, which was redesignated as the new 2nd Mounted Brigade in the new 1st Mounted Division (originally 3rd Mounted Division) at Stansted. By May 1917, it was at Leybourne near West Malling in Kent.

The regiment was once again converted to cyclists in August 1917 and joined 12th Cyclist Brigade in The Cyclist Division. By the end of 1917, it was at Tonbridge and then to Canterbury where it remained until the end of the war. 2/1st Staffordshire Yeomanry began disbanding in March 1919 at Canterbury.

3/1st Staffordshire Yeomanry
The 3rd Line regiment was formed in 1915 and in the summer it was affiliated to a Reserve Cavalry Regiment at Aldershot. In the summer of 1916, it was affiliated to 12th Reserve Cavalry Regiment also at Aldershot. Early in 1917, the regiment was absorbed into the 3rd Reserve Cavalry Regiment still at Aldershot.

Between the wars
Postwar, a commission was set up to consider the shape of the Territorial Force (Territorial Army from 1 October 1921). The experience of World War I made it clear that there was a surplus of cavalry. The commission decided that only the 14 most senior regiments were to be retained as cavalry, the remainder would be converted to other roles such as armoured cars or artillery. As the 5th most senior regiment in the order of precedence, the Staffordshire Yeomanry was retained as horsed cavalry.

By the later 1930s the policy was to mechanise all remaining cavalry units, but the TA was at the bottom of the priority list for modern equipment, and this had still not been done for the Yeomanry when World War II broke out.

Prior to World War II, the Staffs Yeomanry formed part of 6th Cavalry Brigade, a TA formation in Western Command, together with the Warwickshire Yeomanry and the Cheshire Yeomanry.

World War II

The Staffordshire Yeomanry mobilised at its headquarters at Wolverhampton on 1 September 1939. On 31 October, 6th Cavalry Bde became part of a reformed 1st Cavalry Division. There was clearly no role for cavalry in the mechanised warfare anticipated in Europe, so 1st Cavalry Division was sent to perform security duties in Mandatory Palestine, where they could still be effective, and would release other troops for the main fighting fronts.

Middle East
6th Cavalry Bde arrived in Palestine on 9 January 1940, followed by the rest of the division. Over the next year it carried out internal security, quelling disturbances between Palestinians and Jewish settlers, and planned for mechanisation. Initially this was as motorised infantry mounted in 15-hundredweight trucks, though the five senior yeomanry regiments in the division (the Staffordshire being 5th) had been selected to be converted to armour when tanks became available. The Staffordshire Yeomanry officially became part of the Royal Armoured Corps from 12 April 1941.

In April 1941, elements of 1st Cavalry Division were sent to fight in the short Anglo-Iraqi War; the rest, including parts of 6th Cavalry Bde, were then sent to fight Vichy French forces in the Syria–Lebanon campaign in June and July. The Staffs Yeomanry were later awarded the Battle honour 'Syria 1941'.

Back in Palestine, mechanisation continued: 1st Cavalry Division and 6th Cavalry Bde were redesignated 10th Armoured Division and 8th Armoured Bde respectively on 1 August 1941. In February 1942 the brigade moved to Egypt and began desert training with tanks.

Western Desert
During the crisis of the Battle of Gazala in June the 8th Armoured Bde was sent up to join Eighth Army, but on arrival it was ordered to hand over its tanks to experienced units and return to Egypt. It was finally re-equipped and took its place in the line for the defensive Battle of Alam el Halfa on 30 August. After further training the brigade attacked during the Second Battle of El Alamein (23 October–4 November) and then took part in the subsequent pursuit.

When 10th Armoured Division HQ was ordered back to Egypt, 8th Armoured Brigade was left behind as an independent formation. At the end of November it came under the command of the 7th Armoured Division, the famous Desert Rats and was involved in the battles around El Agheila and the pursuit to Tripoli.

Tunisia
The regiment took part in the Battle of the Mareth Line, participating in the New Zealand Corps' 'left hook' to penetrate the Tebaga Gap and outflank the defences, engaging the enemy at 'Roman Wall' and later helping to defeat a German counter-attack. 8th Armoured Bde was then in action at Wadi Akarit and Enfidaville, supporting 2nd New Zealand Division in its attack on the hilltop village of Takrouna. Although the terran was too rough for its tanks to participate in the final advance on Tunis, the surrender of the Italian commander was negotiated via the wireless on the Staffs Yeomanry's command tank.