[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# History of the Canadian dollar

only issued one series of one-hundred-dollar Dominion notes, in 1871. The last time a $100 Dominion note was turned into the Department of Finance was in 1918.

In addition to that routine withdrawal from circulation, there have been other withdrawals when a coin or note no longer serves a purpose:

 the penny was withdrawn from circulation in 2013, because its value had depreciated so much it did not serve any true commercial purpose. Change for cash transactions is now rounded up or down to the nearest five cent.
 there has only been one twenty-five-dollar note, the Silver Jubilee note marking George V's twenty-fifth year on the throne, issued in the 1935 series. It was withdrawn from circulation on an ongoing basis.
 there has only been one five hundred-dollar note issued by the Bank of Canada, in the 1935 series. The five hundred-dollar denomination was a hold-over from the Dominion notes formerly issued by the Minister of Finance, and has not been repeated. Almost all of the 1935 five hundred-dollar notes have been withdrawn.
 the last one-dollar note was issued in the Scenes of Canada series, starting in 1969–70 and continuing until the Birds of Canada series began in 1986. There was no one-dollar note in the Birds of Canada series because of the introduction of the one-dollar coin in 1987, which entirely replaced the one-dollar note.
 the last two-dollar note was issued in the Birds of Canada series, starting in 1986 and continuing until the Canadian Journey series began in 2001. There was no two-dollar note in the Canadian Journey series because of the introduction of the two-dollar coin in 1996, which entirely replaced the two-dollar note.
 the last one thousand-dollar note was issued in the Birds of Canada series, starting in 1986. It was not included in the subsequent series because it was no longer needed for large cash transactions, in light of the growth of electronic transactions. In 2000, the Bank of Canada announced that the one thousand-dollar note was being withdrawn from circulation, on the recommendation of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Increasingly, the thousand-dollar note was being used in criminal transactions, such as money laundering and organised crime.

Notes from previous series continue to be legal tender when in circulation. However, in the 2018 Budget, the government announced it intends to introduce legislation to change to the status of some withdrawn notes: the one-thousand dollar note, the twenty-five-dollar note, the two-dollar note and the one-dollar note will no longer be legal tender, but could still be exchanged at banks for current notes at full value.

See also

History of Canada

References

Bibliography

 Robert Chalmers, A History of Currency in the British Colonies (London: Eyre & Spottiswoode, 1893), pp. 184, 425.
 W. K. Cross, Charlton's Standard Catalogue of Canadian Coins (60th ed.), (Toronto: Charlton Press, 2005). 
 R.J. Graham (ed.), Canadian Government Paper Money'' (30th ed.), (Toronto: Charlton Press, 2018).
 A.B. McCullough, "Currency Conversion in British North America, 1760–1900", (1983) 16 Archivaria 83.
 James Powell, A History of the Canadian Dollar (Ottawa: Bank of Canada, 2005).

External links
 

History
Dollar
Canada Dollar
Financial history of Canada