[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Atlanta in the American Civil War

sitions at the Chattahoochee River while the remainder of the Union forces marched south of Atlanta to attack the Macon & Western Railroad. On August 31 – September 1, the Confederate forces once again failed to stop the Union troops at the Battle of Jonesboro.

Fall of Atlanta (September 1–2, 1864)

With all of his supply lines cut, General Hood abandoned Atlanta. On the night of September 1, his troops marched out of the city to Lovejoy, Georgia. General Hood ordered that the 81 rail cars filled with ammunition and other military supplies be destroyed. The resulting fire and explosions were heard for miles. In his Official Report, General Sherman stated:

On September 2, Major General Slocum, in command of the XX Corp near the Chattahoochee River, sent reconnaissance parties towards Atlanta. Mayor James M. Calhoun and several prominent citizens rode out Marietta St. under a flag of truce to surrender the city of Atlanta to the Union Army. The mayor encountered Col. John Coburn and formally surrendered the city to him. When General Slocum received word that the Confederates had evacuated Atlanta, he moved forward seven brigades to occupy Atlanta.

Occupation of Atlanta (September 3 – November 16, 1864)
On September 3, General Sherman was with the bulk of his troops near Lovejoy's Station when he received word from Gen. Henry W. Slocum that the confederates had withdrawn from Atlanta. He immediately ordered Slocum to take possession of Atlanta and to advise all people that he intended to have all civilians leave the city.

When General Sherman decided not to pursue the Confederate forces commanded by General Hood on September 4, 1864, he issued Special Field Orders No. 64. The Army of the Cumberland commanded by Maj. Gen. Thomas was to move to Atlanta. The Army of the Tennessee commanded by Maj. Gen. Howard was to move to East Point and the head of Camp Creek, while the Army of the Ohio, commanded by Maj. Gen. Schofield, moved to Decatur.

On Sept. 7, General Sherman established his headquarters in the two and one-half-story home of John Neal (1796–1886) located on Washington St. After the Federal troops left Atlanta, it was noted that Sherman had left the "Neal house in excellent condition with the furniture stored in the parlor and disturbed but little".

General George Thomas made his headquarters in the Greek revival home of William Herrington and his son-in-law Austin Leyden. The house was located on the west side of Peachtree Street between Ellis and Cain Streets. In the 20th century, this lot would be occupied by a department store.

Other homes used by the Federal Offices where:
 Brig. Gen. John W. Geary, the home of Edward E. Rawson
	Maj. Gen. David S. Stanley, the home of Lewis Scofield
	Maj. Gen. Henry W. Slocum, the home of William H. Dabney
	Col. William G. Le Duc, Home of the Mayor, James Calhoun

On September 8, Sherman reported to Maj. Gen. H. W. Halleck that his "whole Army" was encamped around Atlanta. He reported that Gen. Howard was in Atlanta and that Gen. Scofield was in Decatur. At the time of his report to Halleck, he had not heard from Gen. Howard, but he assumed he was in East Point. He promised his troops rest and pay.

The federal forces occupied Atlanta until November 15/16 when they began their "March to the Sea". During this approximately 73 days, General Sherman and his troops would not only keep an eye on Gen. Hood and the Confederate army, but evacuate all civilians from Atlanta, build their own shelters, construct fortifications, forage for fresh food, some would get a furloughs to visit home, and finally destroy all assets of military value in Atlanta.

Evacuation of all civilians (September 8–21, 1864)

On September 5, the commander of the Provost Guard of Atlanta, Col. William Cogswell, issued the following order: "All families now living in Atlanta, the male representatives of which are in the service of the Confederate states, or who have gone south, would leave the city within five days. They will pass the lines and go South …"The next day, Lt. Col. C. F. Morse, the provost marshal instructed that the population was to assemble at the City Hall for registration on September 12. Those planning to go South were permitted to take wearing apparel, a limited amount of furniture and a small quantity of food. When General Sherman informed General Hood of his intent to evacuate all the citizens from Atlanta, a series of heated letters were exchanged between the two generals. Mayor Calhoun also appealed to Sherman to relent, but to no avail.