[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Moroccan Association for Human Rights

symposiums.

Artistic, cultural, sportive and other leisure activities 
They are also organized by the AMDH to spread human rights norms and values among all citizens and in particular among the youth, women and workers. For instance, through recreational and educational camps or human rights clubs.

Education on Human Rights 
Intends to educate, especially the youth, on human rights. For example, the AMDH has signed a partnership with the Ministry of Education to strengthen this activity, which has become a priority for the organization. It has also created training universities, known as Université d’Automne (Autumn University). One of these universities aimed at educating on human rights took place in Bouznika, Rabat, on September 24, 25 and 26, 2004 thanks to the support of the FRIEDRICH EBERT-MOROCCO Foundation.

Networking 
It also tries to build new relations and agreements with other organizations and entities with similar objectives and encourages the exchange of information among them.

Infrastructure 
Whenever possible and reasonable the AMDH creates new centers and organizations to further try to fulfill its goals.  For instance, the Center of Information and Documentation which has abundant material available and open to all.

Victims support 
In supporting the victims and trying to make justice it assumes the role of the civil party in court against the responsible of the violations.

Accountability 
The AMDH brings forward violations of human rights and condemns them by presenting to the public their position and by taking measures to make the responsible accountable.

Press Conferences 
When necessary the association may organize a press conference due to the publication of the annual report.

Particular cases

Mr. Sanoussi 
In 1995 the authorities prevented an iconic protest singer and comedian, Mr. Sanoussi, from performing in almost every city in Morocco by denying him the required permits. He was also receiving death threats calls. In view of the situation the Moroccan Association for Human Rights announced its concern for the safety and lack of freedom of expression of Mr. Sanoussi.

Colonel Major Kaddour Terhzaz 
When the retired , age 72, was imprisoned for revealing a national defense secret, the AMDH joined other human rights organizations in the campaign for his freedom. On June 8, 2010, it held a press conference where it declared its support for Colonel Terhzaz and claimed the imprisonment to be false and was actually jailed for political reasons. The Moroccan Association for Human Rights also provided the family of the Colonel with a platform where they could speak out.

Western Sahara camp 
In November 2010 the police conducted a raid on a squatter camp in Western Sahara. After almost a month, 150 people were still detained of which some have been victims of human rights violations. As a result, the AMDH denounced the situation and claimed in a report that the detainees had been threatened with rape and subjected to beatings and other inhuman treatments.

II World Forum of Human Rights 
The AMDH decided to boycott the II World Forum of Human Rights that was going to take place in Marrakech in November 2014 since the Moroccan authorities had been banning and blocking 40 of its activities in less than four months. The authorities were thrilling by this achievement which meant an international recognition for their advancements in human rights but the Moroccan Association for Human Rights was unwilling to attend given the repression it was facing and encouraged others to do the same. Among the organizations that joined were the Moroccan League of Human Rights and the local branch of ATTAC (anti-globalization).

Controversies

Sahara 
The Moroccan Association for Human Rights has frequently taken polemical cases which had brought many supporters but also a lot of detractors. It has advocated for homosexuals, left wing activists, Islamists and atheist, former military personnel or pro-Polisario separatists, which have especially upset religious people. AMDH's Polisario position has received harsh criticism even from members of the organization to the extent that in the National Congress of 2010 some challenged the association decision to use the term Western Sahara instead of Moroccan Sahara. Critics also came from official positions. The Prime Minister at the time, Abbas Al-Fassi, accused the AMDH to be un-Moroccan.