[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Canada-Israel Committee

be incorporated into the internship experience. This position offered compensation; as of 2006, total compensation was $12,000. The CIC billed the internship as an opportunity to gain valuable policymaking experience and position themselves to influence the public sector in the future.

Publications

CIC Insider 
Between the late 1990s and early 2000s, the CIC produced a litany of documents and reviews concerning current events and analyses concerning Israel from the Canadian perspective. One of the most prominent publications of the CIC was the CIC Insider, which was published several times per year. CIC Insider followed Israeli affairs, regional happenings, and the Israeli-Arab conflict, among other topics. This publication was very policy-based, which allowed the CIC connect with policy researchers in Parliament and academia.

Book reviews 
The CIC compiled a listing of book reviews on publications salient to Middle Eastern affairs in the early 2000s.

Backgrounder 
In the early 2000s, the CIC curated many articles examining ongoing developments in the Israeli-Arab conflict. Archives retained between 2002 and 2006 delved into recent Palestinian polling, democratic trends, and Israeli sentiments on the Palestinians. The Backgrounder was regularly updated and was maintained on the CIC's website, serving to inform Canadian Jewry and the general public.

In the media

Iranian sanctions 
Upon learning that Canada completed all relevant actions in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929, the CIC issued its support of the government and prodded it to consider further sanctions for Iran. The CIC framed the government's decision as befitting of an international leader that employs diplomacy over military involvement. CIC highlighted Iran's concealment of its nuclear program to be particularly disconcerting.

A month later, the CIC gave its full blessing to the passage of the Special Economic Measures Act, legislation designed to place economic sanctions on Iran for its nuclear program. In total, the legislation barred Canadian economic activity with select Iranian nationals, instituted an embargo on military weaponry, inhibited petroleum imports and exports with Iran, and banned Canada from providing services to Iranian shipping vessels. Shimon Fogel, then CEO of the CIC, expressed appreciation to the Canadian government for its initiative: "The Canada-Israel Committee has worked hard with all parties in Ottawa to make the case for tough, peaceful measures against Iran's nuclear program... We are very grateful that the Canadian government, with the support of opposition members, has taken the lead in confronting the regime now."

Hamas terrorism 
To raise awareness of Hamas terrorism against Israel, the CIC started a new campaign entitled "What Would We Do" by asking the Canadian public how they would react to being in Israel's situation vis-á-vis Hamas. CIC leadership noted how fortunate Canadians are compared to Israelis, who were facing weekly, if not daily, aggression from Hamas. This campaign was part of the CIC's aspiration for Canada to impose a full arms blockade of Gaza, and thus enhance Israel's security.

Visit by Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu arrived in Canada for a scheduled visit with Prime Minister Stephen Harper; this was the first bilateral meeting between the Canadian and Israeli heads of state since 1994. The CIC was excited to welcome the visiting Prime Minister to deepen bilateral ties and cooperation on trade, the Middle East, and beyond. Chairman Moshe Ronen noted, "The depth of the Canada-Israel relationship is remarkable and continues to demonstrate great vitality as it expands across the many and varied economic, cultural and economic sectors to the benefit of both countries... There is tremendous potential for exponential growth, well beyond what we have already experienced." The CIC emphasized the shared values of both nations, urging the leaders to work for peace between Israel and Palestine while exploring solutions for the Iranian nuclear program.

Case studies into the CIC and Canadian Middle East policy

Yom Kippur War—October, 1973