[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# David Goodwillie

oodwillie was charged with sexual assault, but the case did not come to trial at that time due to there being insufficient evidence to proceed in a criminal court. After it was announced that Goodwillie would not be prosecuted, Scotland manager Craig Levein recalled Goodwillie to the national squad.

He scored his first goal for Scotland on 11 October 2011, from a penalty kick in a 3–1 defeat against World Cup holders Spain. Goodwillie scored with his first touch of the ball after coming on as a substitute. Later in the same game, Goodwillie missed a glaring opportunity, as he shot wide of the goal instead of setting up the unmarked Craig Mackail-Smith.

Criminal convictions and rape judgment
In June 2008, Goodwillie was convicted of assaulting a man in a Stirling nightclub, and was fined £250.

In September 2009, Goodwillie was arrested after a nightclub doorman was knocked unconscious. Two months later, Goodwillie was convicted of assault and received a £200 fine.

In 2012, Goodwillie was convicted of assault for repeatedly punching and kicking John Friel after Friel attacked Goodwillie's teammate Danny Swanson from behind at a takeaway in Glasgow in 2010. He was sentenced to a 12-month probation order and to carry out 80 hours of unpaid work. Friel was ordered to carry out 240 hours of unpaid work for his part in the incident.

Rape
In January 2011, Goodwillie and his teammate David Robertson were accused of raping a woman. Goodwillie was charged with rape, but the Crown Office did not pursue a criminal prosecution due to insufficient evidence in law. However, the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority determined that the woman had been raped and awarded her £11,000.

In 2016, the woman took civil action against Goodwillie and Robertson, in the first case of its kind in Scotland. The judge ruled that they had indeed each raped her, and ordered them to pay £100,000 in compensation. The civil case was judged on the balance of probabilities and did not need corroboration of evidence, unlike in a Scottish criminal case. Soon after the case concluded Goodwillie left his club, Plymouth Argyle, while Robertson retired from football. Goodwillie had asked to leave Plymouth as he was considering an appeal.

In November 2017, three appeal judges at the Court of Session upheld the ruling against Goodwillie and Robertson.

Sequestration
In April 2019, David Goodwillie declared bankrupt at Alloa Sheriff Court having failed to settle an outstanding tax debt of more than £41,224.20. It was reported in the media that was also an attempt to evade paying the compensation to the rape victim, however, in a 2023 interview with podcaster James English, Goodwillie claimed this was untrue and that £100,000 was seized by the court for this purpose after the court case.

Career statistics

Club

International
Scores and results list Scotland's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Goodwillie goal.

Honours
Dundee United
Scottish Cup: 2009–10

Clyde
Scottish League One Play-Offs: 2018–19

Individual
Scottish PFA Young Player of the Year: 2011
Scottish FWA Young Player of the Year: 2011
SPL Player of the Month: March 2011

References

External links
 
 

1989 births
Living people
Footballers from Stirling
Scottish people convicted of assault
Scotland men's youth international footballers
Scotland men's under-21 international footballers
Scottish Premier League players
Scottish Football League players
Premier League players
English Football League players
Dundee United F.C. players
Raith Rovers F.C. players
Blackburn Rovers F.C. players
Crystal Palace F.C. players
Blackpool F.C. players
Plymouth Argyle F.C. players
Aberdeen F.C. players
Ross County F.C. players
Clyde F.C. players
Livingston United F.C. players
Men's association football forwards
Scotland men's international footballers
Scottish men's footballers
Scottish Professional Football League players
Rape in Scotland
Northern Premier League players
Radcliffe F.C. players