[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John C. Tidball

eserving of promotion. But as was typical of his branch, he was just as frequently passed over. The following are some of the opinions expressed about him from his commanders, subordinate officers, and even some of his men, as found within Eugene Tidball's 2002 biography (No Disgrace to My Country):

John Haskell Calef, wrote of his first impressions as a second lieutenant, serving under Tidball in Battery A, 2nd U.S. Artillery:
Joining his battery in December 1862, as a second lieutenant, I was led to believe by some of my brother subalterns that our captain was very exacting, of choleric temperament and much of a martinet. His personal appearance at the time was strikingly martial, especially when mounted. Above the average height, his dark piercing eyes with a far-off thoughtful expression, handsome regular features, dark-brown wavy hair, beard and mustache, and in the prime of manhood, he reminded me of a picture I once saw, of the "Knight in Search of the Holy Grail."  In due time I discovered that if duty was well performed, service with him was most agreeable. Behind the austere, rather reticent and dignified exterior, there existed a love of humor and an affability that only required circumstances to develop… He would at times emerge from his dignified reserve and entertain us youngsters, as we sat around the blaze of winter quarters, with interesting stories of the army "befo’ de wah."

Alfred Pleasonton, commander of the Cavalry Corps at Gettysburg, mentioned Tidball and James M. Robertson, each commanding a brigade of horse artillery batteries, in his battle report:  
[Tidball and Robertson] are now performing the duties of general officers with only the rank of captain, and I most urgently recommend that they be promoted to the rank of Brigadier General. The Artillery arm requires organization in the higher grades. There are no general officers who by their service are so much entitled to this distinction as Captains Robertson and Tidball.

One of Tidball's mentors, Henry Jackson Hunt, added the following to Pleasanton's recommendation:
They have seen their juniors passed over their heads, and have been compelled to serve when they were entitled by their experience to command.

Upon the vacancy within the 4th New York Heavy Artillery, his other career champion, William F. Barry, wrote:
The Regiment very much needs a Colonel who is not only a good soldier, but who possesses sufficient artillery information and experience to instruct and handle the Regiment properly in this special service. I believe these qualifications can only be found combined in some suitable officer of the Regular Artillery of the Army of the United States. Should the vacancy which I now anticipate really occur, I respectfully present Captain John Tidball of the 2d Regt. U.S. Artillery as an officer in all respects admirably suited for the position… I am confident that (the 4th New York Heavy Artillery) will soon become… a credit to the State and models of their kind.

Upon his arrival to the 4th New York, Private James Hildreth (of Battery F) was not happy, writing home that: The colonel is as mean now as he was good when he first took command. Everyone hates him from the highest officer to the lowest private. He is the meanest man I ever see.  Hildreth later changed his tune, writing home again that: Colonel Tidball is very strict, but uses us better than Hall used to. He has always spoke pleasant to me and he makes the officers stand around more than he does the men, they fear him more.

Postbellum career
After being mustered out of the volunteers, Tidball reverted to his Regular Army grade of captain. He was promoted to major, February 5, 1867. He was in active service until his retirement on January 25, 1889. He was the 3rd Commander of the Department of Alaska (which preceded the position of Governor of Alaska), and lived there for six years. He was Commandant of Cadets at West Point in 1864, and was Commandant at the Artillery School at Fort Monroe in Virginia, reorganizing artillery instruction and raising its standards during his tenure. He was promoted to colonel and served as aide-de-camp to  General William T. Sherman during the latter's tenure as general-in-chief of the U.S. Army, January 1, 1881–February 8, 1884. He was transferred to the 1st Regiment of Artillery, November 10, 1882, the 3rd U.S. Artillery, January 25, 1884, and the 1st Regiment of Artillery again, March 22, 1885.

When Tidball retired, he was regarded as the Army's premier artillerist. His 1880 instruction book, Manual Of Heavy Artillery Service, served for decades as the army's guidebook to artillery strategy and operations. Tidball was appointed brigadier general on the retired list, April 23, 1904.