[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Somali Police Force

e Criminal Investigation Department is fully part of the Somali Police Force and is essentially present in Mogadishu headquarters with some 180 officers (and 27 in the stations).

The department is headed by a Director and a Deputy, who are assisted in their HQ by the directors of six CID divisions.

Since 2019, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) has been assisting the CID to train investigators and establish and support specialized units through the UNODC Criminal Investigation Program for Somalia funded by the United States Department of State Bureau for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs. The objective of the Program is to enhance the investigation capacity of the Somali Police Force and CID, both at the Federal and Federal Member State level, to investigate serious and organized crime in accordance with international treaty obligations and standards, including the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols Thereto..

Somalia Coast Guard 

The Somali Police Force (SPF) is currently only one of the two institutions which has legal authority for maritime law enforcement, the other being the Navy, up to 200 Nautical miles from the coastline, and has despite all odds tried to maintain its role in that area.

Six long-range patrol vessels (LRPVs) ordered from Atlantic Marine and Offshore Group in July 2013 as part of a larger contract to build up the Somali Coast Guard are expected to be delivered by the end of the year. The Atlantic Marine and Offshore Group will build, maintain and operate the coast guard fleet and will develop a coast guard training centre to train coast guard personnel, security officers and shore based support personnel.

In Mogadishu the Atlantic Marine and Offshore Group will establish an operational base, including a ship repair facility.

Six Damen Stan 5009 patrol vessel long-range patrol vessels were ordered for Somalia in 2014.  They will be equipped with high-speed off-shore interceptor boats.

The Stan Patrol 5009 vessels are 50 metres long, have maximum speed of 30 knots and 18–26 crewmembers. They feature the innovative axe bow concept which cuts through waves rather than slamming over them for superior seakeeping performance.

Somali Coast Guard operations will be managed in coordination with the Somali Coastguard Directorate.

EOD – explosive ordnance disposal unit 
The SPF EOD counts 86 SPF officers in total and has benefited from several recent projects, mainly initiated and delivered by UNMAS.

In April 2014, the Government of Somalia in conjunction with the European Union Training Mission Somalia and the United Nations Mine Action Service trained the first ever Somali Police Explosive Ordnance Disposal teams.

Traffic Police Department 
The SPF Traffic Police unit counts 140 officers and performs the for such unit usual tasks as well as the official escorts e.g. with motorcycles.

Traffic officers do operate in conditions that are not to underestimate as they are visible beacons of the authority, against whom Al Shabaab has directed specific threats in the past.

In 1961, the SPF established a Women's Unit. Personnel assigned to this small unit investigated, inspected, and interrogated female offenders and victims. Policewomen also handled cases that involved female juvenile delinquents, ill or abandoned girls, prostitutes, and child beggars.

Service units of the Somali police included the Gaadiidka Booliska (Transport Department) and the Health Service. The Police Custodial Corps served as prison guards. In 1971, the SPF created a fifty-man national Fire Brigade. Initially, the Fire Brigade operated in Mogadishu. Later, however, it expanded its activities into other towns, including Kismayo, Hargeisa, Berbera, Merca, Jowhar and Beledweyne.

Special Operations Police Battalion

This Special Operations Command Battalion known as Ciidanka Haramcad in Somali (Cheetah Unit), was inaugurated in March 2019 after the first company of 120 police cadets of a force that is envisage to number between 600 and 800 men, graduated from the Mountain Commando School and Training Center, in Isparta Turkey in February 2019.

This unit has several responsibilities, to assist the Somali National Army in Counter-Insurgency operations in urban areas of Somalia, as a mobile reserve force, to pacify & police areas captured by the SNA allowing it to focus on its primary mandate in the short term of destroying Al-Shabaab as a fighting force in Somalia.

As well as providing security for critical installations & infrastructure such as the Aden Adde International Airport in Mogadishu, and the Green Zone, as well as providing security to large public gathering's such as football fans during as Somali Football league match.