[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Springwood railway station

the subway is located at the east end of the platform between the lift and station building. Period and modern light fittings and timber bench seating in addition to modern and early signage, aluminium palisade fencing between the station building and the lavatories and at both ends of the platform.

Pedestrian subway
The pedestrian subway (1997–1998) is marked by a long gabled corrugated roof on the Macquarie Road footpath and a low pitched gabled roof over the west end of the platform with cantilevered awnings connected to the awnings of the main station building. The walkway is most prominent from the western Macquarie Road approaches to the station than from the more eastern approaches. Access to the platform is via a ramped access way from both sides of the subway towards a central stairway on the west side of the subway and a lift at the east wall. The internal walls of the subway are tiled from floor to ceiling. The station is a prominent element in the Macquarie Road streetscape, overlooking a bend in the road making it a local landmark.

Moveable items
 A Milners' Patent safe (no number) has been observed at the station office.
 Several original station signage depicting " Station Master", "Waiting Room", "Booking Office", "Parcels Office", "Signal Box" etc.
 2 x commemorative plaques (1984 & 1998) on Platform 1 elevation of the station building.
 Early light fittings on platform

Landscape features
A brick 1902 retaining wall runs along the edge of the Macquarie Road footpath, elevating the railway line and platform from the street.

Condition 

As at 10 September 2008, the station building was generally in good condition. Also in good condition were the lavatory building, the island platform and the pedestrian Subway. The station group has a high degree of integrity with minimal changes to the exterior of the buildings. The overall integrity of the station has been reduced due to the 1990s upgrade works, which obscure views to the roofscape of the building and impact on the setting.

Modifications and dates 
1902 – Extension to the southern side of the building and the platform during duplication of the line
1944 – Extension to the main station building at Sydney end
1997–98 – Pedestrian Subway with lift and modern canopies constructed

Further information 

Small fibro shed adjacent to yard is excluded from listing.

Transport links
Blue Mountains Transit operates 10 bus routes via Springwood station, under contract to Transport for NSW:
685H: to Hazelbrook
690C: to Champman Parade
690P: Faulconbridge to Penrith station
690K: to Katoomba
692W: to Winmalee
692B: to Springwood Hospital
692H: to Hawkesbury Heights
692Y: to Yellow Rock
693: to Burns Road
694: to Bee Farm Road

Heritage listing 
Springwood Railway Station Group is of state significance as an important railway station for over 140 years with several trains to and from Sydney starting and terminating here. The main station building is the second oldest surviving station building in the Blue Mountains and is an unusual example of a Victorian Gothic railway station building. It is one of three stations in the Blue Mountains upgraded in 1880s demonstrating increase of tourism activity (the others being Lawson and Wentworth Falls) and is the only station building surviving from this period. Modifications to the building resulting from the duplication of the railway line in 1902 retained the elegant Victorian Gothic character of the station. With the intact lavatory building it is an important element in the chain of railway stations across the Blue Mountains. The size of the main station building and its solid well detailed construction suggests the growing importance of the village of Springwood in the 1880s. Springwood Railway Station Group is important to the local townscape forming a landmark at the curve in Macquarie Road towards the western end of the shopping centre.

Springwood railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.

Springwood Railway Station is of historical significance as an important railway station for over 140 years with several trains to and from Sydney starting and terminating here. The main station building is the second oldest surviving station building in the Blue Mountains. It is one of three stations in the Blue Mountains upgraded in 1880s (the others being Lawson and Wentworth Falls) and is the only station building surviving from this period. The size of the main station building and its solid well detailed construction suggests the growing importance of the village of Springwood in the 1880s.

The place has a strong or special association with a person, or group of persons, of importance of cultural or natural history of New South Wales's history.