[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# God's algorithm

not calculate the game all the way to the end.  Deep Blue, for instance, searched only 11 moves ahead (counting a move by each player as two moves), reducing the search space to only 1017.  After this, it assessed each position for advantage according to rules derived from human play and experience.

Even this strategy is not possible with Go.  Besides having hugely more positions to evaluate, no one so far has successfully constructed a set of simple rules for evaluating the strength of a Go position as has been done for chess.  Evaluation algorithms are prone to make elementary mistakes so even for a limited look ahead with the goal limited to finding the strongest interim position, a God's algorithm has not been possible for Go.

On the other hand, draughts (checkers) has long been suspected of being "played out" by its expert practitioners.  In 2007 Schaeffer et al. proved this to be so by calculating a database of all positions with ten or fewer pieces, providing a God's algorithm for all end games of draughts which was used to prove that all perfectly played games of draughts end in a draw.  However, draughts with only  positions and even fewer, , in the database, is a much easier problem to solve, of the same order as Rubik's cube.

The magnitude of the set of positions of a puzzle does not entirely determine whether a God's algorithm is possible.  The already solved Tower of Hanoi puzzle can have an arbitrary number of pieces, and the number of positions increases exponentially as .  Nevertheless, the solution algorithm is applicable to any size problem, with a running time scaling as .

See also
Oracle machine
Divine move (game of Go)
Proofs from THE BOOK
Rubik's Cube group
Solved game

Notes

References
 Baum, Eric B., What is Thought?, MIT Press, 2004 .
 Davis, Darryl N.; Chalabi, T.; Berbank-Green, B., "Artificial-life, agents and Go", in Mohammadian, Masoud, New Frontiers in Computational Intelligence and its Applications, pp. 125–139, IOS Press, 2000 .
 Fraser, Rober (ed); Hannah, W. (ed), The Draught Players' Weekly Magazine, vol. 2, Glasgow: J H Berry, 1885.

 Moore, Cristopher; Mertens, Stephan, The Nature of Computation, Oxford University Press, 2011 .
 Rothenberg, Gadi, Catalysis, God's Algorithm, and the Green Demon, Amsterdam University Press, 2009 .
 
 Singmaster, David, Notes on Rubik's Magic Cube, Penguin, 1981 .
Singmaster, David, "The educational value of the Hungarian 'Magic Cube'", Proceedings of the Fourth International Congress on Mathematical Education, held in Berkeley, California, 10–16 August 1980, pp. 307–312, Birkhauser Boston Inc, 1983 .

Search algorithms
Logic puzzles
Mathematical games
Rubik's Cube