[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kimberly Dozier

Kimberly Dozier (born July 6, 1966) is a contributing writer to The Daily Beast and a contributor to CNN. She was previously a correspondent for the Associated Press, covering intelligence and counterterrorism, and prior to that, a CBS News correspondent for 17 years based mostly overseas. She was stationed in Baghdad as the chief reporter in Iraq for CBS News for nearly three years prior to being critically wounded on May 29, 2006. She is General Omar N. Bradley Chair in Strategic Leadership, at the Army War College, Penn State Law and Dickinson College.

Biography
Dozier was born in Honolulu, Hawaii, one of six siblings, and raised by Benjamin (died 2016), a construction worker and retired Marine who served in World War II, and Dorothy Dozier (died 2008).

Dozier attended St. Timothy's School, an all-girls boarding school in Stevenson, Maryland. She holds a bachelor's degree from Wellesley College (1987) and a master's degree in foreign affairs from the University of Virginia (1993). From 1988 through 1991, Dozier served as a Washington, D.C.-based reporter for The Energy Daily, New Technology Week, and Environment Week, covering congressional policy and industry regulation. From 1992 through 1995, while living in Cairo, Dozier did freelance work for the CBS Radio Network, Christian Science Monitor Radio, and Voice of America, as well as writing for The Washington Post and the San Francisco Chronicle.

From 1996 through 1998, Dozier was an anchor for BBC World Service's program titled World Update, an hour-long, live foreign affairs broadcast, among other programs. From 1996 through 2002, Dozier served as the London bureau chief and chief European correspondent for CBS Radio News and as a reporter for CBS News television. Her assignments included the war in Iraq, the war in Afghanistan and the hunt for Osama bin Laden, the crisis and refugee exodus in the Balkans, Vladimir Putin's election, the death of Princess Diana, the Northern Ireland peace process, and the Khobar barracks bombing in Dhahran. She has interviewed dozens of newsmakers, including U.S. Gen. Joseph Dunford, Stan McChrystal (ret.) David Petraeus, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Gerry Adams and Yasser Arafat.

Dozier started as a stringer for CBS Radio News, later becoming a network TV correspondent for the CBS Evening News. As part of that progression, from February 2002 through August 2003, Dozier was the chief correspondent for WCBS-TV (New York)'s Middle East bureau in Jerusalem, where she covered the ongoing Israeli–Palestinian conflict and the war in Iraq, before being hired by CBS anchor Dan Rather and reassigned to Baghdad.

After Dozier was injured in Iraq in 2006, CBS gave her temporary assignments covering the Pentagon, the White House and Capitol Hill, for CBS News' Washington, D.C., bureau, from 2007 to 2010, as they were reluctant to let her return to war zones. She left CBS and television reluctantly to become the Intelligence Writer for The Associated Press, to leave the stigma of being combat-injured behind.

In April 2008, Dozier received a Peabody award for "CBS News Sunday Morning: The Way Home", a piece in which she reported the story of two women veterans who lost limbs in Iraq.

Dozier received a 2008 RTNDA/Edward R. Murrow Award for Feature Reporting for the same story. She has also received three American Women in Radio and Television (AWRT) Gracie Awards—in 2000, 2001 and 2002—for her radio reports on Mideast violence, Kosovo and the Afghan war, as well as the organization's Grand Gracie Award in 2007 for her body of television work in Iraq.

Dozier and ABC News anchor Bob Woodruff were honored with the 2007 Radio and Television News Directors Association and Foundation's Leonard Zeidenberg First Amendment Award. She was honored by the Overseas Press Club in 2007 and spoke on behalf of journalists who have been killed and injured in Iraq. In 2008, Dozier became the first woman to receive the Congressional Medal of Honor Foundation's McCrary Award for Excellence in Journalism.

Injury in Iraq
Dozier was seriously injured in Iraq on May 29, 2006 in a car bomb attack that killed an American soldier, the 4th ID's Captain James "Alex" Funkhouser, an Iraqi translator, and CBS crewmembers Paul Douglas (Cameraman) and James Brolan (Sound Technician). She was transferred to Germany for further treatment.

Most of the patrol was outside their parked Humvees in a residential Baghdad neighborhood. Insurgents waited until the patrol approached the car bomb, packed with an estimated  of explosives, before remotely detonating it. The captain, translator and CBS crew were closest to the explosion.