[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Moses in rabbinic literature

lead the Israelites out of that country. He therefore sent his wife and children back to Midian.

Confrontation with Pharaoh
When they went to Pharaoh, Moses went ahead, Aaron following, because Moses was more highly regarded in Egypt; otherwise Aaron and Moses were equally prominent and respected.

At the entrance to the Egyptian royal palace were two leopards, which would not allow any one to approach unless their guards quieted them; but when Moses came they played with him and fawned upon him as if they were his dogs. According to another version, there were guards at every entrance. Gabriel, however, introduced Moses and Aaron into the interior of the palace without being seen. As Moses' appearance before Pharaoh resulted only in increasing the tasks of the children of Israel, Moses returned to Midian; and, according to one version, he took his wife and children back at the same time.

After staying six months in Midian he returned to Egypt, where he was subjected to many insults and injuries at the hands of Dathan and Abiram. This, together with the fear that he had aggravated the condition of the children of Israel, confused his mind so that he uttered disrespectful words to God. Justice (Middat ha-Din) wished to punish him for this; but as God knew that Moses' sorrow for Israel had induced these words he allowed Mercy (Middat ha-Rachamim) to prevail. As Moses feared that Middat ha-Din might prevent the redemption of Israel, since it was unworthy of being redeemed, God swore to him to redeem the people for Moses' sake.

The plagues
Moses in dealing with Pharaoh always showed to him the respect due to a king. Moses was really the one selected to perform all the miracles; but as he himself was doubtful of his success, some of them were assigned to Aaron. According to another version, Aaron and not Moses undertook to send the plagues and to perform all the miracles connected with the water and the dust. Because the water had saved Moses, and the dust had been useful to him in concealing the body of the Egyptian, it was not fitting that they should be the instruments of evil in Moses' hand.

When Moses announced the last plague, he would not state the exact time of its appearance, saying merely ka-chatzot ("about midnight"), because he thought the people might make a mistake in the time and would then call him a liar. On the night of the Exodus, when Moses had killed his paschal lamb, all the winds of the world were blowing through paradise, carrying away its perfumes and imparting them to Moses' lamb so that the odor of it could be detected at a distance of forty days. During this night all the first-born, including the female first-born, were killed, with the exception of Pharaoh's daughter Bithiah, who had adopted Moses. Although she was a first-born child, she was saved through Moses' prayer.

The Exodus
During the Exodus while all the people thought only of taking the gold and silver of the Egyptians, Moses endeavored to carry away boards for use in the construction of the future Temple, and to remove Joseph's coffin. Serah, Asher's daughter, told Moses that the coffin had been lowered into the Nile; whereupon Moses went to the bank of the river and cried: "Come up, Joseph" (according to another version, he wrote the name of God on a slip of paper, which he threw into the Nile), when the coffin immediately rose to the surface. Another legend says that Joseph's coffin was among the royal tombs, the Egyptians guarding it with dogs whose barking could be heard throughout Egypt; but Moses silenced the dogs and took the coffin out.

On arriving at the Red Sea, Moses said to God when commanded by Him to cleave the water: "You have made it a law of nature that the sea shall never be dry," whereupon God replied that at the Creation He had made an agreement with the sea as to the separation of its waters at this time.

When the Israelites saw Pharaoh and his army drown in the Red Sea, they wished to return to Egypt and set up a kingdom there; but Moses prevented them, urging them on by force. He also removed the idols which the Israelites had brought with them from Egypt.

Receiving the Torah

The giving of the tablets of the Law and of the Torah in general to Moses is a favorite subject for legends. In contrast to the pithy sentence of R. Jose to the effect that Moses never ascended into heaven, there are many aggadot which describe in detail how Moses made his ascension and received the Torah there.

Moses went up in a cloud which entirely enveloped him As he could not penetrate the cloud, God took hold of him and placed him within it. When he reached heaven the angels asked God: "What does this man, born of woman, desire among us?" God replied that Moses had come to receive the Torah, whereupon the angels claimed that God ought to give the Torah to them and not to men. Then God told Moses to answer them.