[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# English Argentines

In 1824 permission was given to hold Anglican church services, and in 1831 St. John's Church was built in San Nicolás, Buenos Aires on land donated in 1830 by Governor Juan Manuel de Rosas for the benefit of the new St. John the Baptist Anglican Church. It is the oldest in existence in Buenos Aires.

English naval captain and Christian missionary, Allen Gardiner founded the Patagonia Mission (later renamed the South American Missionary Society) in 1844 to recruit, send, and support Protestant Christian missionaries. His first mission, which included a surgeon and three fishermen was sent to the Yaghans on the island of Isla Grande de Tierra del Fuego. They arrived at Picton island in Tierra del Fuego in December 1850, but their food began to run out; the supplies they had expected did not arrive, and by September 1851 they had died from sickness and hunger. The Patagonia Mission continued and in 1854 changed its name to the South American Missionary Society.

In January 1869 the Society established a mission at Ushuaia in Tierra del Fuego under its superintendent, Waite Hockin Stirling. On 21 December 1869 Stirling was ordained at Westminster Abbey as the first Bishop of the Falkland Islands and at the time had episcopal authority over the whole of South America, until power was transferred to the Bishop of Buenos Aires. In 1914 the first mission, Misión Chaqueña, was founded in the north of Argentina.

The Anglican Diocese of Argentina is part of the Anglican Province of the Southern Cone of America and is headed by the current bishop of Buenos Aires.

Notable people

Carlos Babington – former footballer. Known as "El Inglés" (The Englishman).
Hilda Bernard – actress.
Jorge Luis Borges – author and poet; his grandmother was of English origin.
Eduardo Bradley – aviator.
Lucas Bridges – author and explorer.
Chris de Burgh - singer.
Rodolfo Enrique Fogwill – author and sociologist.
Donald Forrester – cricketer.
John Godwin – Royal Navy officer.
Andrew Graham-Yooll – editor.
Trevor Grove – journalist and newspaper editor.
Soto Grimshaw – naturalist and explorer.
Diego Hartfield – tennis player.
Juan Enrique Hayes – football player.
Leonardo Henrichsen – photojournalist.
Mariano Hood – tennis player.
Juan Carlos Howard – tango pianist and composer.
William Henry Hudson – author and naturalist.
Martita Hunt – actress.
Olivia Hussey – actress.
Lewis Lacey – polo player.
Roberto M. Levingston – Argentina President June 18, 1970 – March 21, 1971
Carlos Micháns - composer
Francisco Moreno – explorer and geographer. His mother, Juana Thwaites, was of English descent.
Isaac Newell – founder or Newell's Old Boys football club.
Olga Casares Pearson – actress.
Carlos Pellegrini – President of Argentina from 6 August 1890 to 12 October 1892. His mother, María Bevans Bright, was of English origin.
Julio Porter – screenwriter and film director.
Peter Prescott (barrister) – King's Counsel.
Jorge Pullin – physicist.
Elena Roger – actress.
Collier Twentyman Smithers –  portrait, figure and rustic painter.
René Strickler – actor.
Anya Taylor-Joy – actress.
Martín Jacobo Thompson – navy officer and patriot, founder of the Argentine Naval Prefecture.
Maria Elena Walsh – children's literature writer and singer.
Eduardo Wilde – physician, politician and writer.
Amancio Williams – architect.

Gallery

See also

 Football in Argentina
 Buenos Aires English High School
 Alumni Athletic Club
 British football clubs tours to South America

References

External links
Anglo-Argentine Society website
Immigration to Argentina-Report-Yale
ABCC – Argentine British Community Council

British Argentine
Argentine
Immigration to Argentina