[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Artemisia californica

Artemisia californica, also known as California sagebrush, is a species of western North American shrub in the sunflower family. 

In the western United States, California sagebrush is grown in native plant gardens and as a drought-resistant landscaping choice. In addition to its drought resistance and capacity to draw pollinators like bees and butterflies, its lovely, silvery foliage is prized by gardeners and horticulturists.

Description
Artemisia californica branches from the base and grows out from there, becoming rounded; it grows  tall. The stems of the plant are slender, flexible, and glabrous (hairless) or canescent (fuzzy). The leaves range from  long and are pinnately divided with 2–4 threadlike lobes less than 5 cm long. Their leaves are hairy and light green to gray in color; the margins of the leaves curl under.

The inflorescences are leafy, narrow, and sparse. The capitula are less than  in diameter. The pistillate flowers range in number from 6 to 10 and the disk flowers range from 15 to 30; they are generally yellowish, but sometimes red.

Artemisia species are sunflower (Asteraceae) family members, however unlike many other members of the family, they often produce small, unnoticeable blooms.  Their attractive silvery leaf, which is often fragrant when crushed, is their strongest feature in the garden.  The often pleasing perfume of the stems and leaves is caused by essential oils, which also deters animal and insect pests.  They are an essential source of food for local wildlife because they flower late in the season.  The genus Artemisia is widespread in the Old and New Worlds, and many species have been utilized for hundreds of years in Europe, Asia, and the Americas in horticulture, cooking, and medicine.

California sagebrush is sometimes confused for a true sage (Salvia) due to its common name and leaves that smells like sage.  It is a crucial part of the community of coastal sage scrub habitat and is frequently widely utilized in restoration initiatives.  When planted in full sun, it can reach heights and widths of roughly 4' and 4'.  Once established, it may survive without additional water, but will appear happier when watered occasionally in the deep summer.  Sagebrush's beautifully split gray leaves contrast nicely with the garden's lush green vegetation.  

The fruits produced are resinous achenes up to 1.5 mm long. There is a pappus present that forms a minute crown on the achene body.

The plant contains terpenes which make it quite aromatic. Many people regard the species as having a pleasant smell.

Distribution and habitat 

The shrub is native to western California and northwestern Baja California. It is endemic to the California chaparral and woodlands ecoregion, in coastal sage scrub, coastal strand, chaparral, and dry foothill communities. It is found from sea level to  in elevation. This species is also found on many islands adjacent to the Baja California peninsula, including the Coronado Islands and Cedros Island. It is even found on Guadalupe Island, in the Pacific Ocean.

The prototypical plant association of A. californica is chaparral, notably in the California Coast Ranges; toyon and sage are also key components of communities which are transitional between chaparral and coastal sage scrub.  It is often claimed to be allelopathic, secreting chemicals into the ground which inhibit other plants from growing near and around the shrub.

Cultivation 

This shrub is cultivated as an ornamental plant in native plant and wildlife gardens, natural landscaping design, and for restoration of disturbed sites and degraded coastal sage scrub. There are several lower height cultivars in the horticulture trade, for drought-tolerant groundcover use.

It thrives in full sun, preferring to grow on west or north-facing slopes. It needs little water and prefers no water in the summer months; it does not seem that soil types affect plant growth much.  This plant relies on wildfire for seed germination and burned plants can crown-sprout and keep growing.

Animals rarely eat Artemisia californica, probably due to the presence of bitter aromatic terpenes, but it does provide good cover for smaller birds and other animals that can fit between its stems. It is an important habitat plant for the endangered California gnatcatcher.

Uses 
A. californica is a sagebrush, not a true sage, making it of little culinary interest.