[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fox Conner

service.

Conner's lasting legacy was as a role model and inspiration to World War II high commanders including Marshall, Eisenhower, and Patton. Eisenhower considered Conner to be the greatest soldier he ever knew, saying: "In sheer ability and character, he was the outstanding soldier of my time."

Conner died at Walter Reed Army Medical Center on October 13, 1951. His ashes were scattered at Brandreth Park in the Adirondack Mountains of New York. In addition, there is a cenotaph to his memory at Dale Cemetery in Ossining, New York.

Family
In 1902, Conner married Virginia Brandreth, the daughter of Franklin Brandreth, a successful patent medicine maker from New York, and granddaughter of Benjamin Brandreth. They had three children: daughter Betty Virginia Vida (1903–2000), the wife of Colonel Frank Joseph Vida (1894–1970); son Fox Brandreth (1905–2000), a 1927 graduate of West Point who served as an army lieutenant before pursuing a business career as president of the Brandreth family business, the Allcock Manufacturing Company, a maker of humane animal traps; and daughter Florence Slocum Gans (1910–1964), the wife of Colonel Edgar A. Gans (1902–1965).

Military awards
American awards
 Army Distinguished Service Medal
 Purple Heart
 Spanish War Service Medal
 Army of Cuban Occupation Medal
 Victory Medal

Foreign awards
 Companion of the Order of the Bath
 Commander of the French Legion of Honour
 Commander of the Belgian Order of the Crown
 Commander of the Order of the Crown of Italy
 Croix de Guerre (France)

Dates of rank

References

Bibliography

The Next Middle East War, by Robert Gates, U.S. Secretary of Defense

Further reading

External links

 generalfoxconer.com
 Biography
 Calhoun County site
 Ike and Conner 
Steven Rabalais: Conner, Fox, in: 1914-1918-online. International Encyclopedia of the First World War.

1874 births
1951 deaths
People from Calhoun County, Mississippi
American military personnel of the Spanish–American War
United States Army generals of World War I
United States Army generals
Recipients of the Distinguished Service Medal (US Army)
Honorary Companions of the Order of the Bath
Commanders of the Legion of Honour
Commanders of the Order of the Crown (Belgium)
Recipients of the Croix de Guerre 1914–1918 (France)
United States Military Academy alumni
United States Army Command and General Staff College alumni
United States Army War College alumni
Military personnel from Mississippi
United States Army Field Artillery Branch personnel