[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HIV exceptionalism

g), written informed consent, and the option of anonymous rather than confidential HIV testing. In many places, it is illegal to disclose HIV test results over the phone or over the internet because the test results may be inadvertently disclosed to someone other than the person who has been tested.

AIDS exceptionalists also believe that the decriminalization of behaviors that may lead to HIV transmission as well as the option of anonymous testing will encourage more people to seek HIV testing. In the US, states have different regulations governing the reporting of HIV or AIDS cases to local or state health departments. Some states require the release of individually identifying information with an HIV-positive test result, but other states do not. Similarly, regulations vary as to whether healthcare professionals may have access to the information without the patient's written consent. Since all health care professionals are required to practice universal precautions with every patient to protect themselves against blood-borne disease, it is, in some states, illegal to inform a provider of a patient's HIV status for the sole purpose of protecting the health care provider against HIV. The practice of universal precautions is considered to be sufficient for the provider's protection.

Opposition
Most opponents of HIV exceptionalism believe that social stigma is no longer an important variable in testing and treating people living with HIV/AIDS. Citing improvements in treatment regimes, a better understanding of the pandemic, and greater awareness about HIV/AIDS stigma and discrimination, more public health professionals are arguing for an end to HIV exceptionalism. They believe that HIV exceptionalism in testing increases bureaucratic burden, reduces the number of health care providers that make HIV testing available to all adolescent and adult patients without regard to perceived risk, and stigmatizes testing as something "special" instead of a normal part of healthcare. Opponents of HIV exceptionalism believe that by destigmatizing HIV testing and treatment in the medical arena, the sexual and needle-sharing behaviors that may result in HIV infection can be destigmatized.

See also
 Criminal transmission of HIV
 Genetic exceptionalism

References

HIV/AIDS