[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Shirvan Khanate

Shirvan Khanate () was a Caucasian khanate under Iranian suzerainty, which controlled the Shirvan region from 1761 to 1820.

Background
Under the Safavid dynasty of Iran, Shirvan was a leading silk manufacturer and its principal city, Shamakhi, became an important place for trade. In 1724, most of Shirvan was annexed to the Ottoman Empire by the Treaty of Constantinople. In 1734, the Iranian military leader Nader recovered Shirvan and installed Mohammad Mehdi Khan as its beglarbeg (governor-general).

The following year, Mohammad Mehdi Khan was killed by rebellious dignitaries of the province. They had been incited by the governor of Darband, Morad-Ali Soltan Ostajlu. Mohammad Qasem Beg, who was a prominent dignitary of Shirvan and Nader's ishikaghasi-bashi (chamberlain), successfully appealed to Nader to pardon Shirvan. In 1735, Nader had the inhabitants of Shamakhi resettled in New Shamakhi (Aqsu), situated 18 miles north of the Kur River. He then installed as Sardar Khan Qaraqlu the new governor of Shirvan, and soon appointed Heydar Khan Afshar as the ruler of both Shirvan and Darband. In 1743, the Safavid pretender Sam Mirza led a local rebellion, overthrowing Heydar Khan. In 1761, the Zand ruler Karim Khan Zand () approved the request of the inhabitants of Old Shamakhi to overthrow Sardar Khan Qaraqlu and install their own applicant, Hajji Mohammad Ali Khan, as the governor of Shirvan.

History 
Hajji Mohammad Ali Khan governed Shirvan until 1763, when Fath-Ali Khan of Quba gained influence there, and appointed his own governors, such as Aghasi Beg and Askar Beg, both members of the same family. Askar Beg, along with supporters from the Khanchoban tribe, returned to Old Shamakhi, and soon became powerful enough to establish control over New Shamakhi. Aghasi Beg and another family member Mohammad Sa'id successfully acquired the title of khan from Karim Khan Zand. The family were in control of Shirvan until 1767, when a combined army from Quba and Shakki captured Old Shamakhi. Fath-Ali Khan of Quba had Mohammad Sa'id imprisoned, while Hosein Khan of Shakki had Aghasi Khan blinded. Shirvan was subsequently divided between Quba and Shakki. Nevertheless, Aghasi Khan later managed to restore his control over Shirvan, in 1774. He was later succeeded by his son Mostafa Khan.

After the massacre in Ganja, Mostafa Khan asked the central government in Tehran for assistance, in order to prevent Tsitsianov's advance. The government responded by sending an army under general Pir Qoli Khan Qajar. However, when the general had reached the Mughan plain, he found out that Mostafa Khan had entered negotiations with the Russians. Mostafa Khan hoped that the Russians would recognize a Shirvan Khanate "enlarged" to the boundaries of the Shirvanshah's of the Medieval era. Though Mostafa Khan was uncomfortable with Tsitsianov's proposal, the latter threatened that if he wouldn't agree with his terms, he would replace Mostafa with his younger brother (who was reportedly enthusiastic about it). Anyhow, the Russians invaded the khanate, and on 6 January 1806, Mostafa Khan was forced to submit.

Mostafa Khan was allowed to administer the khanate and had to give an annual tribute in gold rubles to the Russians. Furthermore, he had to send hostages to Tiflis (Tbilisi), which had recently been annexed and transformed into the "base" of the Russian Caucasus Viceroyalty. Lastly, he also had to provide food and accommodation for the Russian garrisons. After Tsitsianov was killed in Baku in 1806, Mostafa Khan repudiated his allegiance to the Russians, and re-submitted himself to the shah.

Things changed when Aleksey Yermolov took office as the new Russian commander-in-chief in the Caucasus, in 1816. A staunch Russian imperialist, Yermolov was committed to bringing the entire Caucasus under the Russian sway. He wanted to establish the Aras river as the border between Iran and Russia at all costs, and was therefore determined to conquer the last remaining khanates under Iranian rule; the Erivan Khanate and the Nakchivan Khanate.
When Ismail, the khan of Shaki, died in 1819 without any heir, Yermolov annexed the entity. Realizing what was going to happen to himself, Mostafa Khan fled to mainland Iran in 1820 with his son; Yermolov did not waste any time to annex the Shirvan Khanate.