[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Second Nigerian Republic

st was Ayodele Awojobi, a professor of Mechanical Engineering, who filed several lawsuits and organised political rallies in protest of the Nigerian election results that returned Shehu Shagari, the incumbent, as president in the Second Republic - he strongly believed the results were widely rigged.

Overthrow
On December 31, 1983, the military overthrew the Second Republic. Major General Muhammadu Buhari, became the military leader of the new government, citing charges of corruption and administrative incompetence as reasons for military intervention. Buhari emerged as the leader of the Supreme Military Council (SMC), the country's new ruling body. President Shagari was placed under house arrest, and several of his cabinet members were either jailed or exiled. The Buhari government was peacefully overthrown by the SMC's third-ranking member General Ibrahim Babangida in August 1985.  Babangida gave misuse of power, violations of human rights by key officers of the SMC, and the government's failure to deal with the country's deepening economic crisis as justifications for the takeover. During his first days in office, President Babangida moved to restore freedom of the press and to release political detainees being held without charge. As part of a 15-month economic emergency plan he announced pay cuts for the military, police, civil servants and the private sector. President Babangida demonstrated his intent to encourage public participation in decision-making by opening a national debate on proposed economic reform and recovery measures. The public response convinced Babangida of intense opposition to an economic recovery package dependent on an International Monetary Fund (IMF) loan.

See also
 Nigerian First Republic (1963 - 1966)
 Nigerian Second Republic (1979 - 1983)
 Nigerian Third Republic (1993)
 Nigerian Fourth Republic (1999 - present)

References

Other topic
The History of Nigeria
 Media Accountability and Democracy in Nigeria

History of Nigeria
1970s in Nigeria
1980s in Nigeria
Republic of Nigeria 02
Nigeria 02
Politics of Nigeria
1979 establishments in Nigeria
1983 disestablishments in Nigeria
1979 in Nigeria
1980 in Nigeria
1981 in Nigeria
1982 in Nigeria
1983 in Nigeria