[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

ward but were again met with heavy resistance, suffering heavy losses from Lieutenant General Pemberton's troops. Grant then realized Vicksburg could not be taken by storm, so resolved to take Vicksburg by siege while reinforcements poured in from Memphis, swelling his troop strength to over 80,000.

On the 4th of July, Vicksburg surrendered which was followed by the fall of Port Hudson on the 9th. Farragut then reported to Porter, whose vessels were especially fitted for the waters of the Mississippi, and relinquished to him command of the Mississippi Valley above New Orleans.

Red River campaign

Phelps was active in the Red River Campaign, involving a series of battles fought along the Red River in Louisiana from March 10 to May 22, 1864, with the objective of advancing to and occupying the Confederate stronghold at Shreveport, Louisiana, where General Kirby Smith and his force of over 20,000 men were deployed.

After the fall of Vicksburg, the Mississippi River from Cairo to the Gulf of Mexico was finally in control of the Union. As northern Louisiana, southern Arkansas and eastern Texas, with their vast cotton fields, were still an economic objective, controlling it would not only put millions into the U.S. Treasury, but also deprive the Confederacy of badly needed wartime funds that cotton, with its inflated value, would bring.

General Sherman had approached Rear Admiral David Porter with the idea of a naval expedition to Shreveport by way of the Red River. The river was low for that time of year, and Porter doubted the probability of the mission's success.  Sherman, however, was anxious to proceed with the expedition as he had promised he be in Natchez by late February 1864.  Porter didn't like the idea of taking his fleet past Alexandria but acquiesced and assigned the most formidable ships of the Mississippi Squadron to meet the task, which included the huge Eastport, commanded by Seth Phelps. The fleet up to this point was the largest yet assembled in North America.

Union Generals Nathaniel Banks and A. J. Smith, along with gunboat squadrons under the command of  Admiral Porter were to meet at Alexandria, on March 17 and make their way up the Red River some 350 miles to Shreveport. (Porter had replaced Davis as commander of the Mississippi Squadron in October 1862, becoming acting rear admiral.) Of major concern to Porter for his squadron of gunboats was the shallow depth of the river with its many narrow bends, which would soon prove to be a major impediment for the advancing gunboats. During most of the year the river was navigable only by small, shallow draft, vessels, making Porter very reluctant to take his squadron past Alexandria, however, Banks persuaded him by pointing out that if the expedition to Shreveport failed, blame would fall on him. While preparations were being made Phelps was relieved of the Tennessee Division. While everyone was waiting for February's river level to rise, Phelps returned to his home in Chardron to manage its sale, as his parents were not well. In late February he boarded the Silver Cloud assisting General Frederick Steele who requested his help on the White River buildup for the Red River Campaign. Phelps found himself tending to the various vessels that struck snags and sank and had to be raised. Porter was upset with Phelps for giving in and going along with Steele who he regarded as incompetent for river navigation. After leaving Steele, Phelps arrived at Memphis on February 23, and began getting the Eastport ready for the Red River Campaign.

By March 2, Porter arrived at the mouth of the Red River with his squadron. On the 11th General Smith, with his detachment of ten thousand men from General Sherman's division arrived. The next morning the fleet began its ascent up the river. On March 14, just before reaching Fort deRussy, obstructions in the river were discovered. Porter ordered Phelps to "clear the way!" Phelps, in turn, ordered the Hindman to ram the obstructions and alternately pull them away. Meanwhile, Porter and Smith tried to reach the fort by way of the Atchafalaya River. Porter was subsequently deterred on the Atchafalaya and finally turned around and began the trip back up the Red River.