[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joseph Cafasso

aches but bore his pain with remarkable resilience as a sign of his own personal cross. He was once asked whether or not his constant work ever wore him out and he said: "Our rest will be in Heaven". He celebrated Mass each 4:30am and was known for spending long hours in the confessional and chapel.

He was also a noted confessor and spiritual director who guided people who would go on to found new religious institutions or congregations which would help the church to meet the needs of the whole world. Bosco was just one (Cafasso was his spiritual director from 1841 to 1860); another was Giulia Falletti di Barolo who became a noted advocate of women prisoners.  Francesco Faà di Bruno was but another that he guided as well as Clemente Marchisio. He was also known for his extensive work in the local prisons and served as the comforter of those condemned to death so much so that he was called "The Priest of the Gallows". There was even one occasion when this small and weak priest seized an enormous inmate's beard and told him he would not let go until the man confessed. The inmate did so and wept as he confessed (not from Cafasso tugging at his beard) while giving praise to God as he left the confessional. There was also another occasion in which he escorted 60 converted inmates who had been condemned to the gallows. Most of them were hanged straight after confessing and receiving absolution and so Cafasso referred to them as "hanged saints".

He died on 23 June 1860 and his friend Bosco (who wrote a biographical account of his old friend) preached though was not the celebrant for the Mass. Cafasso had died from pneumonia coupled with a stomach hemorrhage and complications from congenital medical issues. He bequeathed all he had in his will to the Little House of Divine Providence which was the religious order that Giuseppe Benedetto Cottolengo had founded some decades before. The college he had headed until his death moved to the Santuario della Consolata in 1870 and this prompted his remains to be re-interred there.

Sainthood

The process for canonization opened in Turin in a local process that would assess his saintliness and evaluate his spiritual writings; the formal introduction to the cause came in an official decree that Pope Pius X signed on 23 May 1906 while the confirmation of his heroic virtue allowed Pope Benedict XV to title Cafasso as Venerable. Pope Pius XI confirmed two miracles attributed to Cafasso's intercession on 1 November 1924 while - in the official decree - labelling Cafasso as "the educator and formation teacher of priests". Pius XI presided over the beatification on 3 May 1925. Pope Pius XII confirmed two more miracles and canonized Cafasso in Saint Peter's Basilica on 22 June 1947.

Pius XII - on 9 April 1948 - declared him to be the patron saint of all Italian prisons and prisoners. In his apostolic exhortation Menti Nostrae - on 23 September 1950 - the pontiff further offered him as an example to all priests involved as confessors and spiritual directors.

Monuments and buildings
There is a monument that has been erected in his honor in Turin at the road crossing of Corso Regina Margherita and Corso Principe Eugenio and Corso Valdocco (called the Rondò della Forca - or the Gallows Roundabout). In 1968 a church in the Tuscolano district in Rome was dedicated to him.

See also

 Giovanni Bosco
 Giuseppe Allamano (his nephew)

Notes and references

External links

Hagiography Circle
Saints SQPN
Loyola Press
Pope Benedict XVI, "Joseph Cafasso", General Audience, 30 June 2010, Libreria Editrice Vaticana

1811 births
1860 deaths
19th-century Christian saints
19th-century Italian Roman Catholic priests
19th-century venerated Christians
Beatifications by Pope Pius XI
Canonizations by Pope Pius XII
Deaths from pneumonia in Piedmont
Italian chaplains
Italian Roman Catholic saints
19th-century Italian Roman Catholic theologians
Members of the Third Order of Saint Francis
People from Castelnuovo Don Bosco
Prison chaplains
Roman Catholic moral theologians
Social reformers
Venerated Catholics