[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Israel Space Agency

diameter. It will be equipped with a camera with CCD/TDI sensors, producing both panchromatic imagery at a very high resolution and multispectral imagery at a medium resolution. The satellite is set to orbit in a Sun-synchronous orbit. It is expected to have a lifespan of roughly 10 years.

ULTRASAT

The ULTRASAT satellite is a wide field (~1000 deg2) transient explorer space telescope mission. ULTRASAT is planned to have eight telescopes equipped with CCD cameras and reflective filters. It is set to have a sensitivity 10 times lower than GALEX but a field of view more than 1000 times larger. It is also planned to have a detection rate for transient in the UV of more than 30 times greater than that of GALEX. The ULTRASAT is planned to be developed in just 3–4 years and relatively low cost. ULTRASAT will observe a large patch of sky, more than 200 square degrees, alternating every six months between the southern and northern hemisphere. The satellite will orbit the Earth from an altitude of about 300 km above the geosynchronous orbit, getting a ‘ride’ as a secondary payload in the fairing of the rocket carrying a communications satellite.  A joint American-Israeli proposal for this project was submitted to NASA by a team from Caltech/JPL (Jet Propulsion Laboratory), the Weizmann Institute of Science and Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI). The Israeli contribution will be funded by the Israel Space Agency and the launch is scheduled for early 2026.

INSAT-1 and INSAT-2
The INSAT-1 and the INSAT-2 are two nano-satellites which were planned and developed by the Israeli Nano Satellite Association. Their purpose was to serve as a technology demonstrators.

The INSAT-1 was set to carry a miniature atomic clock and a GPS receiver. By 2021, the mission was delayed and they were never launched.

SHALOM Project

The SHALOM Project (Spaceborne Hyperspectral Applicative Land and Ocean Mission) is a joint project with the Italian Space Agency (ASI) announced on November 23, 2010. The project involves the design and development of two hyperspectral Earth observation satellites. They are set to follow the same orbit as the Cosmo SkyMed. It will integrate radar observations with observations in the visible infrared and ultraviolet. In October 2015 a memorandum of understanding was signed, and the system is slated to become fully operational in 2021. The project is expected to cost over $200 million, with the cost being split evenly between the two countries.

SAMSON
Space Autonomous Mission of Swarming & Geolocating Nano-Satellites (SAMSON) is a project initiated by the Technion's Asher Space Research Institute. SAMSON consists of three nano-satellites in formation flying to demonstrate high precision geo-location of civilian signals from the ground for rescue purposes. SAMSON is planned to implement and demonstrate Technion-developed formation-flying algorithms using the nano-satellite's propulsion system. This is a student project with technical help from multiple partners in the industry such as RAFAEL.

Matroshka AstroRad Radiation Experiment - Artemis 1

The Matroshka AstroRad Radiation Experiment (MARE) is a collaboration between the ISA, NASA, and the German Aerospace Center (DLR), in cooperation with Lockheed Martin and StemRad. MARE will take place aboard the Artemis 1 Orion Spacecraft, which is expected to launch from Kennedy Space Center between 2020 and 2021. The radiation environment beyond Earth's protective atmosphere is a significant impediment to human space travel. The AstroRad is a protective vest that provides mobile shielding from high energy radiation. MARE offers a unique opportunity to measure tissue dose deposition and test the effectiveness of the AstroRad vest when exposed to the harsh radiation beyond low Earth orbit. The crew compartment of the uncrewed Artemis 1 Orion spacecraft will include two female anthropomorphic phantoms that will be exposed to the intense radiation environment during the spacecraft's lunar orbit. One phantom will be shielded by the AstroRad vest and the other will be left unprotected as a control. The phantoms, designed by DLR, precisely measure radiation exposure not only at the surface of the body but also at the locations corresponding to sensitive internal organs and tissues in humans.

Crewed programs
While the ISA has not yet made a human spaceflight of its own, since the mid-1990s there has been a cooperation agreement between the Israel Space Agency and NASA which has resulted in one Israeli astronaut on a NASA mission to date.

Ilan Ramon