[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hnat Khotkevych

ding using recently invented phonograph.

Since that time this art form became hugely popular throughout Ukraine.

After emigrating to Austria-Hungary in 1906 he traversed Halychyna with solo recitals of bandura music. In 1907, he wrote the first bandura handbook which was published in 1909 in Lviv.

In 1910, he had one of his bandura compositions – "Odarochka" – published in Kyiv which became the first composition published for the instrument. He returned to Central Ukraine in 1912 and was soon arrested, jailed, and later exiled to Russia. He returned to Kharkiv only in 1917 where he taught Ukrainian Literature and Language at the Kharkiv Zoological College.

In 1920 he organized a Ukrainian choir that performed ethnographic choral works and in the 1920s had numerous compositions published.

From 1926 on, he taught the first conservatory-level courses in bandura at the Kharkiv Music and Drama Institute. A new textbook for the bandura was partially published (the 3 final books were lost at the publishing house). A collection of his compositions for the bandura was prepared but was also lost by the publishing house. Only a handful of students completed these courses such as Leonid Haydamaka, O. Herashchenko, O. Hayevsky, I. Oleshko, and Hryhory Bazhul. Most were arrested in the early 1930s, however, some found their way out to the West during World War II.

In 1928, Khotkevych became the director of a special bandura studio, organized to retrain and convert the Poltava Bandurist Capella to play in the Kharkiv style. He composed and arranged numerous works for this ensemble. In 1931 the ensemble received the privilege of being the first Soviet ensemble to be invited to tour North America. Unfortunately, the tour did not take place and Khotkevych was removed from the directorship of the ensemble in 1932. All of his pieces and arrangements were subsequently banned.

Apart from his musical performance and compositions, Khotkevych also produced a number of books on Ukrainian folk instruments, and the bandura specifically. These books were openly criticized in the Soviet press and also banned in 1932.

 Persecution 
As an ethnographer, he saw the type of persecution that blind kobzars suffered from Tsarist police whenever they visited the city. He was persecuted by Tsarist authorities because of his association with Ukrainian culture and the bandura. He was removed from studies in 1899, and in 1905 was forced to emigrate.

When he returned from Austria-Hungary he was followed by police and incarcerated, and with the outbreak of World War I was forced into internal exile to Russia.

From 1928 Khotkevych again had difficulties in all his publishing endeavors. Initially, manuscripts began to disappear at publishing houses and in the mail. Works had to be submitted three or four times, and then they were often sabotaged in the publishing houses. Khotkevych wrote numerous letters to complain, but little was done.

From 1931, he suffered numerous personal attacks in the Soviet press, which ultimately resulted in all his music and writing being banned in 1932 and him losing all employment.

In 1933 his family starved during the Holodomor, as he was not given ration cards because he was officially unemployed. In 1934 someone tried to kill him by pushing him under the wheels of a train. As a result, he was hospitalized for a period with moderately severe injuries to his leg.

In February 1938, during the Great Purge, he was arrested and tortured. In 1938 an NKVD tribunal in Kharkiv sentenced him to be shot and his property confiscated. The execution was carried out on 8 October 1938 and his body was buried in a mass grave on the outskirts of Kharkiv.

Soviet sources initially falsely stated that he was sent to Siberia for 10 years without the right to correspond. False death certificates were issued to state that he died in 1943.

 Postmortem 
Khotkevych was politically rehabilitated by the Soviet government in 1956; however, only a small part of his literary output was republished. In 1977, despite being on a UNESCO list of noted cultural figures to be commemorated, nothing was published.

In post-1991 Ukraine numerous works by this author have been republished and many manuscripts have found their way from the archives into publications due mainly to the efforts of the Khotkevych foundation in Kharkiv.

In 1989 a film was made after the Khotkevytch book Kaminna Dusha''. directed by Stanislav Klymenko. A documentary about Khokevych's life "Sledovat' na sever mozhet'" was made in 1991.

See also 
Hnat Khotkevych Ukrainian Bandurist Ensemble

References