[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 177]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ux, who was to join
some friends in Italy, to make the journey under her escort, and the
date of her departure was therefore fixed. She had decided to return to
town on the morrow, to make her preparations.

Valeria declared impulsively that she would stay at home, after all. She
could not bear to leave Hadria for so many lonely months.

"Oh, no, no," cried Hadria in dismay, "don't let me begin _already_ to
impoverish other lives!"

Valeria remonstrated but Hadria persisted.

"At least I have learnt _that_ lesson," she said. "I should have been a
fool if I hadn't, for my life has been a sermon on the text."

Professor Fortescue gave a little frown, as he often did when some
painful idea passed through his mind.

"It is happening everywhere," said Hadria, "the poor, sterile lives
exhaust the strong and full ones. I will not be one of those vampire
souls, at least not while I have my senses about me."

Again, the little frown of pain contracted the Professor's brow.

The dusk had invaded the dinner table, but they had not thought of
candles. They went straight out to the still garden. Valeria had a fan,
with which she vainly tried to overcome the expression of the
atmosphere. She was very low-spirited. Hadria looked ill and exhausted.
Little Martha's name was not mentioned. It was too sore a subject.

"I can't bear the idea of leaving you, Hadria, especially when you talk
like that. I wish, _how_ I wish, that some way could be found out of
this labyrinth. Is this sort of thing to be the end of all the grand new
hopes and efforts of women? Is all our force to be killed and
overwhelmed in this absurd way?"

"Ah, no, not all, in heaven's name!"

"But if women won't repudiate, in practice, the claims that they hold to
be unjust, in theory, how can they hope to escape? We may talk to all
eternity, if we don't act."

Hadria shrugged her shoulders.

"Your reasoning is indisputable, but what can one do? There _are_
cases----in short, some things are impossible!"

Valeria was silent. "I have thought, at times, that you might make a
better stand," she said at last, clinging still to her theory of the
sovereignty of the will.

Hadria did not reply.

The Professor shook his head.

"You know my present conditions," said Hadria, after a silence. "I can't
overcome them. But perhaps some one else in my place might overcome
them. I confess I don't see how. Do you?"

Valeria hesitated. She made some vague statement about strength of
character, and holding on through storm and stress to one's purpose; had
not this been the history of all lives worth living?

Hadria agreed, but pressed the practical question. And that Valeria
could not answer. She could not bring herself to say that the doctor's
warnings ought to be disregarded by Hadria, at the risk of her mother's
life. It was not merely a risk, but a practical certainty that any
further shock or trouble would be fatal. Valeria was tongue-tied.

"Now do you see why I feel so terrified when anyone proposes to narrow
down his existence, even in the smallest particular, for my sake?" asked
Hadria. "It is because I see what awful power a human being may acquire
of ravaging and of ruling other lives, and I don't want to acquire that
power. I see that the tyranny may be perfectly well-intentioned, and
indeed scarcely to be called tyranny, for it is but half conscious, yet
only the more irresistible for that."

"It is one's own fault if one submits to _conscious_ tyranny," the
Professor put in, "and I think tyrant and victim are then much on a
par."

"A mere _demand_ can be resisted," Hadria added; "it is _grief_, real
grief, however unreasonable, that brings people to their knees. But, oh,
may the day hasten, when people shall cease to grieve when others claim
their freedom!"

Valeria smiled. "I don't think you are in much danger of grudging
liberty to your neighbours, Hadria; so you need not be so frightened of
becoming a vampire, as I think you call it."

"Not _now_, but how can one tell what the result of years and years of
monotonous existence may be, or the effect of example? How did it happen
that my mother came to feel aggrieved if her daughters claimed some
right of choice in the ordering of their lives? I suppose it is because
_her_ mother felt aggrieved if _she_ ventured to call her soul her own."

Valeria laughed.

"But it is true," said Hadria. "Very few of us, if any, are in the least
original as regards our sorrowing. We follow the fashion. We are not so
presumptuous as to decide for ourselves what shall afflict us."

"Or what shall transport us with joy," added Valeria, with a shrug.

"Still less perhaps. Tradition says 'Weep, this is the moment,' or
'Rejoice, the hour has come,' and we chant our dirge or kindle our
bonfires accordingly. Why, it means a little martyrdom to the occasional
sinner who selects his own occasion for sorrow or for joy."

Valeria laug