[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Liga Veneta

Liga Veneta (; ; abbr. LV), whose complete name is  (), is a regionalist political party active in Veneto.

The LV, whose ideology combines Venetian nationalism and support for fiscal federalism, was established in 1979 and was the first party of its kind in northern Italy, predating Umberto Bossi's Lega Lombarda by five years. The LV was one of the founding "national" sections of Lega Nord (LN) in 1991 and has been the regional section of Lega per Salvini Premier (LSP) in Veneto since 2020.

In the 2010 regional election the LV was by far the largest party in Veneto with 35.2% of the vote and LV's Luca Zaia, who was supported also by The People of Freedom, was elected President of Veneto with 60.2%. In the 2015 regional election the LV, which fielded also a "Zaia list" improved its tally to 40.9% and Zaia, who counted also on the support of some minor parties, was re-elected with 50.1%. In the 2020 regional election the LV's two lists improved again their tally to 61.5% and Zaia was re-elected by a landslide 76.8% of the vote.

The party's secretary is Alberto Stefani.

History

Early years (1978–1989)
Liga Veneta was promoted in 1978 by Franco Rocchetta, a Venetian philologist who had been speaking of a "Venetian league" since 1968. The party constitution, modelled on those of the Valdostan Union and the Radical Party, was officially signed by 14 founding members on 16 January 1980 in Padua and Achille Tramarin was elected national secretary. Shortly after, some hardliners, led by Luigi Faccia and Flavio Contin, left the party: in 1987 they would launch the Most Serene Venetian Government and in 1997 would organise the St Mark's Campanile's "assault" (see Venetian nationalism). Another split occurred in 1983: Giulio Pizzati's Liga Federativa Veneta.

In the 1983 general election the LV gained 4.3% in Veneto: Tramarin was elected to the Chamber of Deputies and Graziano Girardi to the Senate. In the Pedemontana, the area of the Padanian-Venetian Plain at the feet of the Venetian Prealps, the LV became the second largest party after then-dominant Christian Democracy (DC). This party would be mostly damaged from the rise of the LV as both parties concurred for the support of the middle class. DC regional leader Antonio Bisaglia had proposed a regional party modelled on the Christian Social Union in Bavaria, but opposition from Rome and his sudden death stopped the plan.

Soon after the election, a power struggle for the leadership of the party took place and the winner was Rocchetta, disappointed for his missed election, who had been behind the scenes up to that moment. Tramarin was replaced as national secretary by Marilena Marin, the future wife of Rocchetta.

In the 1984 European Parliament election the LV gained 3.3% in Veneto, but did not win seats.

In the 1985 regional election the party obtained 3.7% and two regional councillors: Ettore Beggiato and Rocchetta. Liga Veneta Serenissima of Tramarin, expelled from the party by Marin, won a mere 0.2% of the vote and, since then, Rocchetta and Marin have had the party in their hands. In the 1980s the party suffered also other two splits: that of the Union of the Venetian People (UPV), formed by Beggiato (who was joined by Tramarin and Girardi) and that of the Veneto Autonomous Region Movement (MVRA). The only counterweight to Rocchetta–Marin within the LV was thus represented by the Treviso wing, which then started to gain influence, under the leadership of Gian Paolo Gobbo and Mauro Michielon. In the next elections, the LV and the UPV had similar showings.

Foundation of Lega Nord (1989–1994)
In 1989 the party's charismatic leader, Rocchetta and his wife Marin, secretary of the party, managed to forge an alliance with Umberto Bossi's Lega Lombarda for that year's European Parliament election, Alleanza Nord. In 1989–1990 the LV took part in the process of federating the northern regionalist parties, ahead of the regional elections. In the 1990 regional election the LV and the UPV scored 5.9% and 1.9%, respectively. In the 1991 local elections, the UPV passed the LV. Some attempts to merge the two parties into one failed, but from that point, thanks to the alliance with Bossi, Liga Veneta's rise seemed unstoppable.

In February 1991 the LV joined Lega Lombarda and other regionalist parties from every northern region to form Lega Nord (LN) and, since then, the LV has been the regional section of the party in Veneto. Bossi was elected federal secretary and Rocchetta federal president. Thanks to the federal structure of Lega Nord and to its ideology (according to which Padania is a country formed of different nations: Veneto, Lombardy, Piedmont, etc.), the LV retained much of its autonomy.