[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Translink (Queensland)

n for certain offences committed on public transport

Translink South East Queensland network

The Translink South East Queensland network is divided into seven regions, each region operated by different operators contracted by Translink. The regions are based largely on local government boundaries:

Greater Brisbane
Airtrain Services Operator – Airtrain Citylink
Bus Services Operator – Brisbane Bus Lines 
Bus Services Operator – Transport for Brisbane
Ferry Services Operator – RiverCity Ferries
Train Services Operator – Queensland Rail

Northern
Bus Services Operator – Caboolture Bus Lines
Bus Services Operator – Hornibrook Bus Lines
Bus Services Operator – Kangaroo Bus Lines
Bus Services Operator – Thompsons Bus Service

Southern
Bus Services Operator – Park Ridge Transit
Bus Services Operator – Clarks Logan City Bus Service
Bus Services Operator – Kinetic

Eastern
Bus Services Operator – Mt Gravatt Bus Service
Bus Services Operator – Transdev Queensland

Western
Bus Services Operator – Westside Bus Company
Bus Services Operator – Bus Queensland Lockyer Valley
Bus Services Operator – Southern Cross Transit

Sunshine Coast
Bus Services Operator – CDC Queensland
Bus Services Operator – Kinetic

Gold Coast

Tram Services Operator – Keolis Downer
Bus Services Operator – Kinetic

Translink regional network

The Translink Regional network is divided into 16 regions, each region typically operated by different operators. The regions are based largely on local government boundaries:

Bowen 

 Bus Services Operator – Bowen Transit

Bundaberg 
 Bus Services Operator – Kinetic
 Bus Services Operator – Stewart & Sons

Cairns 
Bus Services Operator – Kinetic

Fraser Coast 

 Bus Services Operator – Wide Bay Transit

Gladstone 

 Bus Services Operator – CDC Queensland

Gympie 

 Bus Services Operator – Polleys Coaches

Innisfail 

 Bus Services Operator – Trans North Bus & Coach

Kilcoy 
 Bus Services Operator – Christensen's Bus and Coach

Mackay 
Bus Services Operator – Mackay Transit Coaches

Rockhampton and Yeppoon 

 Bus Services Operator – Young's Bus Service
 Bus Services Operator – Kinetic

Sunshine Coast Hinterland 

 Bus Services Operator – Glasshouse Country Coaches

Toowoomba 
Bus Services Operator – Bus Queensland

Townsville and Magnetic Island
Bus Services Operator – Kinetic

Warwick 

 Bus Services Operator – Haidley's Panoramic Coaches

Whitsundays 

 Bus Services Operator – Whitsunday Transit

Non-Translink regional bus

North Stradbroke Island 
 Bus Services Operator – Transit Systems

Services
Translink operates various types of services under different names. Below are a few services they operate.

CityGlider

CityGlider is a brand name applied to a pair of high-frequency bus routes operated by Transport for Brisbane in Brisbane, Australia. Both are operated by dedicated fleets of buses vinyled in either blue or maroon liveries with a gliding possum motif. Bus stops serviced by the CityGlider services are identified with signs and painted kerb. Both operate 24 hours a day on Fridays and Saturdays.

The CityGlider service is pre-paid only, meaning passengers are required to use a go card to touch on/off when boarding and exiting the service. To assist with keeping the service running on-time, both front and rear boarding is possible, the CityGlider is the only service which allows this.

Bus upgrade zone

Bus upgrade zones, commonly abbreviated to BUZ, are a feature of Brisbane's public transport system. The name is given to high-frequency bus routes operated by Transport for Brisbane, the Brisbane City Council agency that operates the city's public bus services for Translink. All BUZ services run at least every fifteen minutes from around 6:00am to 11:30pm seven days a week and at least every ten minutes during peak hours from Monday to Friday.

Nearly all BUZ routes are express services which provide quick and frequent access to places along major trunk roads, with the exception of routes 196 and 199, which are the only all-stops BUZ service with bus stops within short walking distances of each other between the inner suburbs of Fairfield, West End, New Farm and Teneriffe. Most BUZ routes are radial, and commence in or near the Brisbane CBD. However, routes 196 and 199 are again an exception, in that they are cross-town routes that passes through the CBD.

NightLink

NightLink is the name given to the all-night Translink services that leave Fortitude Valley, Brisbane City and Surfers Paradise on the Gold Coast late Friday and Saturday nights.

Brisbane City Bus Loops

Great Circle Line 
The Great Circle Line is a loop operated by Transport for Brisbane serving various shopping centres and other attractions around Brisbane.

Spring Hill Loop 
The Spring Hill Loop is a free loop service operated by Transport for Brisbane servicing stops popular locations such as Post Office Square, Old Windmill Observatory, St Andrew's War Memorial Hospital, Brisbane Private Hospital and Central Station.