[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Inertial fusion power plant

run up to the NIF opening and achieving ignition, Livermore National Laboratory funded a body of research around the Laser Inertial Fusion Energy program.  Under this program, a reactor design was developed, costing, reactor chambers and energy capture programs were explored.

IFE Research Programs 

IFE development has come in waves within the United States.  Below are some government programs that have been funded over the years to push this technology forward: 
 HAPL The high average laser program was administered by the Naval Research Laboratory from 1999 to 2008.  This program doled out grants to target, laser and driver teams across the United States and organized 19 meetings between member organizations.
 LIFE  The Laser Inertial Fusion Energy program was administered by Livermore National Laboratory from 2008 to 2016.  This program was funded to develop an IFE fusion power plant based around the National Ignition Facility. 
 SDI The Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) inadvertently supported many of the IFE laser technologies seen today.

Driver Development 
It is still unclear which driver would work best for an IFE power plant, with supporters of different drivers pushing their favorite approach. Lasers have thus far proven to be the most well researched.  Below is a summary of the laser drivers that have been studied.  The challenge with implementing laser systems does not just come from the beam, but also the optics, mirrors, amplifiers and gratings that are also needed to put this system in place.

Related Driver Technologies 
Depending on the driver that is being used there are key related technologies that need to be matured; below are some of these: 
 Glass that can handle the laser energy (Joules) crossing through the glass cross section (meters^2) and not melt or get damaged.  The glass is then used to make mirrors, lenses, gratings or windows inside the power plant. 
 Amplifiers that can be used to increase the power of the laser beam. 
 Compressors that can compress the laser beam or ion beam in space and time to increase the overall on-target power. 
 Pulsed Power systems that can deliver the megajoules needed to either a laser, ion-beam or solid object driver.  The workhorse of pulsed power (the Marx Generator) has limitations for an ICF plant and research has gone into Linear transformer driver as an alternative power source.
 Laser Diodes are used as the first step in transferring electrical energy into light energy to initiate the laser beam.  Such systems can be expensive and are not needed for excimer lasers. 
  Phase-Plate Smoothing is a technique to smooth out laser beams in solid-state laser systems.

Target Development 
There are many kinds of targets that have been developed for ICF research - but a power plant would require thousands if not millions of identical targets to be fired repeatedly.  This will be exceedingly challenging.  At present, the Department of Energy contracts with General Atomics to produce ICF targets for the national laboratories.  These targets are partially built at GA and then shipped across the country to the ICF facility for a shot day.  The Laboratories maintain hardware and staff onsite to complete the last steps to prepare the targets for a shot.

Target Example 
 Glass Shell targets were spheres of glass on stalks and filled with DT gas; these were some of the earliest targets. 
 Overcoated targets involve growing chemical materials over a shell target.  This can be done using directed Chemical Vapor Deposition of plastics or layers of gold or silvers.
 Hohlraum targets are pellets of DT fusion fuel that are surrounded by tubes of gold foil.  The laser strikes the foil and creates x-rays that compresses the targets; simulates nuclear weapons. 
 Silk Mounted Targets have been mounted on strands of spider silk; this material is the strongest material per cross-section known and maintains good characteristics down to cryogenic temperatures. 
 Cryogenic targets are those that must be kept below ~34 Kelvin to condense the hydrogen gas into liquid or ~14 kelvin to condense to a solid. 
 Foam Wetted targets are made using a variety of carbon-hydrogen foams and filled with liquid DT material cooled to below ~34 Kelvin. 
 Ice targets are made using a variety of carbon-hydrogen foams and filled with liquid DT material cooled to below ~14 Kelvin.

Cryogenic Targets