[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Mahmudiyah rape and killings

wrongfully touching a corpse, and drinking. After the verdict, Spielman's grandmother fainted, while his sister, Paige Gerlach, screamed "I hate the government. You people put him there and now, this happened." Spielman is held in the United States Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.

Bryan L. Howard
Howard was sentenced by a court martial under a plea agreement for conspiracy to obstruct justice and being an accessory after the fact. The court found that his involvement included hearing the others discussing the crime and lying to protect them, but not commission of the actual rape or murders. Howard was sentenced to 27 months in prison, demoted in rank to Private, and dishonorably discharged.

Anthony W. Yribe
Yribe was initially charged with obstructing the investigation, specifically, dereliction of duty and making a false statement. In exchange for his testimony against the other men, the government dropped the charges against Yribe and he was given an other than honorable discharge.

Others

Justin Watt
Watt, the whistleblower, received a medical discharge and is now running a computer business. He says that he received death threats after coming forward; however, starting in 2010, he was asked by the US Army Center for the Army Profession and Ethic (CAPE) at West Point, New York, to be interviewed and speak before Army Profession audiences about his decision to report the crimes in accordance with his moral obligation to uphold the Army Ethic.

Survivors
Muhammed and Ahmed Qassim Hamza al-Janabi, the surviving brothers of murder victim Abeer Qassim Hamza al-Janabi, are being raised by an uncle, according to testimony in the courts-martial of Cortez, Barker and Spielman.

In popular culture
 The 2007 war film Redacted is loosely based upon the events at Mahmudiyah.
 The incident and the ensuing investigations were described in the book Black Hearts by Jim Frederick, published in 2010.
 The play "9 Circles" by Bill Cain follows Daniel Reeves, a character based on Steven D. Green, through the aftermath of Mahmudiyah and was performed in 2011 at the Bootleg Theatre in Los Angeles.
 The attacks are referenced in the 2017 episode "Fair Game", of the television series Homeland. 
 The incident was covered extensively in March 2018, in Case 78 of Casefile True Crime Podcast. The podcast also released an interview with Watt on February 1, 2020.

See also

Incident on Hill 192
Sexual assault in the U.S. military
FOB Ramrod kill team
Human rights in post-Saddam Hussein Iraq
Hamdania incident
Haditha massacre
2004 Fallujah ambush
John E. Hatley
Kandahar massacre
United States war crimes

References

External links
Video: The Rape & Murder Scene in Mahmudiya - Short BBC Documentary from August 7, 2006
Images: The Mahmudiya Massacre Images - A Photo Series
Resources: The Massacre of Mahmudiya: A full detail of the case with court documents
"Killings shattered dreams of rural Iraqi family." Associated Press at NBC News. 2009.
Rape: American soldiers 'took turns' The Age Aug 8, 2006
Steven Green's Apology to Victims May 28, 2009
"I came over here because I wanted to kill people." Andrew Tilghman The Washington Post Sunday July 30, 2006
Lessons from Yusufiyah: From Black Hearts to Moral Education Combined Arms Center - Army.mil

101st Airborne Division
21st-century mass murder in Iraq
2006 murders in Iraq
2006 murders in the United States
Child sexual abuse in Iraq
Civilian casualties in the Iraq War
Female murder victims
Gang rape in Asia
Events that led to courts-martial
Family murders
Incidents of violence against girls
March 2006 events in Iraq
March 2006 crimes in the United States
Mass murder in 2006
Mass murder in Iraq
Occupation of Iraq
Rape in Iraq
United States Army in the Iraq War
United States military war crimes
Violence against women in Iraq
War crimes in Iraq
Wartime sexual violence
Women's rights in Iraq
Child murder in Iraq