[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Peru–United States Trade Promotion Agreement

in rainforest, which will in turn increase global warming and displace our communities from their home territories… Provisions contained in the Peru FTA are directly incentivizing this massive takeover that is threatening our livelihoods and leading to irreversible destruction of virgin rainforest".

A cross-party congressional commission, created after the indigenous protests in the Amazon in August 2008, recommended the repeal of two of the laws that opened up communally-owned native lands to private investment. Decree 1015 introduced substantial changes to the decision-making process for community property such that the sale or leasing of communal lands no longer requiring approval by two-thirds of qualified community members, but just a simple majority of those members of the community attending an assembly meeting. Degree 1073 modified this arrangement, which stated that these community members must have occupied or used land during the preceding year. In 2008, the indigenous people involved in the Interethnic Associations of the Peruvian Amazon (AIDESEP) demanded that the decrees be repealed. However, when Congress failed to implement the repeal of these decrees that affected indigenous people's rights, new protests began in April 2009.

See also
 Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement
Rules of Origin
Market access
Free-trade area
Tariffs

References

External links
U.S. Trade Representative's Site on Peru TPA
Final Text of the United States - Peru Trade Promotion Agreement
Congressional Research Service Report on Andean Free Trade Agreement, including Peru TPA
 
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Report on Peru TPA / AFTA
Heritage Foundation: Congress Should Advance U.S.-Peruvian Free Trade Ties
Rep. Sander Levin (D-Mich.) Speech on Peru TPA

Foreign trade of Peru
Free trade agreements of the United States
Peru–United States relations
Treaties of Peru
Treaties concluded in 2006
Treaties entered into force in 2009