[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# USS Erie (PG-50)

mpire flying boat Cavalier in the Atlantic Ocean. Erie transferred a doctor to the commercial tanker Esso Baytown, which rescued the airliner's 10 survivors, but because of the high seas and darkness had to discontinue the search for the other three people who had been aboard Cavalier.

World War II

Battle of the Caribbean
At the outbreak of World War II Erie was stationed Balboa, Panama, at the Pacific end of the Panama Canal. On 13 December 1941, Erie picked up 50 Japanese internees at Puntarenas, from the Costa Rican government. On 14 December, Erie boarded  and removed a Japanese national on board, and ordered Sea Boy into Balboa the next day. On 16 December, Erie crewmen boarded  and ordered it to Puntarenas, and later the same day, towed a disabled motor boat, Orion, into the same port.

In June 1942, Erie was transferred to Cristóbal, at the Atlantic end of the Canal, and joined the Battle of the Caribbean against German U-boats operating between Panama and Cuba.

On 12 June 1942, Erie rescued the master and 45 other survivors of the British steamship Fort Good Hope at location  after having been sunk by  at location . After salvaging the lifeboat, Erie joined with a patrol plane in prosecuting a submarine contact, ultimately dropping six depth charges with no result. Erie then went on to transfer Fort Good Hopes survivors and their lifeboats to submarine chaser PC-209.

On 15 June 1942, Erie rescued the master and 22 survivors of the U.S. bulk carrier Lebore, off St. Andrews Island, after it had been sunk by  the day before. After embarking the merchant sailors at  Erie sank their lifeboat with gunfire to prevent a menace to navigation. The next day, along with the destroyer Tattnall, Erie rescued 8 Armed Guards from Lebore along with 49 survivors from the Dutch steamship Crijnssen which Lebore had rescued on 11 June, after their ship had been sunk by  at .

Sinking of Erie
On Tuesday, 10 November 1942, Erie left Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, leading convoy TAG-20 en route to Guantanamo Bay. Erie was accompanied by the destroyer , corvette , and three PC-461-class submarine chasers , , and PC-573.

Two days out they approached Curaçao.  At 11:30 , , , , and a PT boat had left from Willemstad, to patrol the area while Queen Wilhelmina left with additional ships that were to join the convoy.

At 16:35 the subsidiary convoy met up with the main convoy. At 17:03 Erie was struck by one of three torpedoes fired by . The captain had taken the conn at  and ordered "right standard rudder" to investigate spray on the starboard beam. It was then that a torpedo was sighted  out. "Left full rudder" was ordered but two more torpedoes were sighted abaft the starboard beam, the siren was sounded and as Erie swung left, the ship was struck in the starboard quarter. Erie had been struck in one of its oil bunkers, and immediately started burning with all engines stopping and loss of electrical power. By 17:40 Erie was listing to starboard and down by the stern with partial power restored and the starboard engine in use. At 17:44 the starboard engine was stopped and the #2 boiler cut in. At 17:45 two severe explosions in the #4 gun shelter rocked Erie, followed within five minutes by two more explosions in the #4 gun shelter. At 17:55, "all stop" was ordered and three motor whaleboats were lowered to search for casualties with an additional boat lowered at 18:00 with injured personnel. The ship began moving forward again on the port engine heading for the beach. The crew began heaving the powder from the #3 ready room overboard at 18:12 to prevent it from exploding too. "All engines stop" was called six minutes later, with the main deck under water by 18:20. At 18:23 Erie hit bottom, and "back full" was called as Erie beached itself  off shore. With oil on the water around the ship on fire, the captain called for "all hands abandon ship" at 18:26. The explosion and fire had killed seven of the crew, including officers Lt. Ned James Wentz, Lt. George Kunkle and wounded 11 more. Erie was beached to prevent sinking, and burned for days.

Biddle, Spry, and SC-533 searched the area around Erie. SC-533 "dropped destructive barrage" ahead of Erie as the ship headed east toward the beach. The PT boat also dropped depth charges and was seen to be fired upon by a merchantman. Three airplanes joined the search. PC-545 reported seeing a submarine and opened fire. PC-624, Van Kinsbergen and Queen Wilhelmina circled around to join the hunt about  but were unable to get a fix on the contact. Spry followed Erie toward Curaçao, with Biddle attempting to come along Erie to help with fire fighting, but because of the explosions was unable to get close enough.

It was later believed that the U-boat had escaped by going under the convoy to disguise its sound, and was able to flee the area.

Fate