[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# New York City ethnic enclaves

this neighborhood.

Other boroughs:
Staten Island has a Palestinian community, found in the New Springville area,
and a small Coptic Egyptian community in the South Shore of Staten Island. There are a lot of Arab restaurants in Manhattan.

See Arab Americans & Arab immigration to the United States.

North Williamsburg is an ethnic enclave centered on Israeli Americans. There is also a small community of Israelis centered on Kings Highway, also in Brooklyn.  Israelis first immigrated to the United States after 1948. United Kingdom, and the United States has experienced two large waves of immigration from Israel.  The first was during the 1950s and early 1960s, 300,000 Israelis immigrated to the United States, and another wave, starting in the mid-1970s and lasting through the present, in which 100,000 to 500,000 Israelis have immigrated to the United States.

Armenians and Iranians 
The main concentration of Armenians including Armenian Americans and Iranian Americans of Armenian and Persian descent is in Queens, an estimated 50,000 people of the city's over 100,000 Armenians.

Others

Jewish 

The first Jews arrived in New York City in 1654, when it was still New Amsterdam, from Recife (Brazil) following the First Anglo-Dutch War, resulting a decade later in the first known civil rights case in the New World when a Jew named Asser Levy successfully appealed to the New Amsterdam colonial council for the right to serve in the army.  Later German immigration brought large communities of Jews to the city.  Starting then until 1820 was the first wave of Jewish immigration to America, bringing fewer than 15,000 Jews. The first wave of Jewish people were fleeing religious persecution in Brazil, Portugal, Spain, Bordeaux, Jamaica, England, Curaçao, Holland, and conquered by Russian Empire former Poland (Rzeczpospolita Obojga Narodów), and founded communities in New York, Newport, Charleston, Savannah, and Philadelphia.  From 1820 to 1880 came the second wave, in which a quarter million German Jews migrated to America.  A third major wave of Sephardi Jews coming from the Balkans and the Middle East after the Turkish revolution.  The outbreak of World War I and the Holocaust caused many German Jews to immigrate to the United States.  During this period, 1881 to 1924, over 2,000,000 Eastern European Jews immigrated, fleeing anti-semitic persecution in their home countries.  A later wave from Eastern Europe, from 1985 to 1990, over 140,000 Jews immigrated from the former Soviet Union.  50,000 Jews a year still immigrate to the United States.

New York today has the second largest number of Jews in a metropolitan area, behind Gush Dan (the Tel Aviv Metropolitan Area) in Israel. Borough Park, Brooklyn, (also known as Boro Park) is one of the largest Orthodox Jewish communities in the world. Crown Heights, Brooklyn, also has a large Orthodox Jewish community. Flatbush, Brooklyn, Riverdale, Bronx, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, Midwood, Brooklyn, Forest Hills, Queens, Kew Gardens Hills, Queens, Kew Gardens, Queens, Fresh Meadows, Queens and the Upper East Side, Washington Heights, Manhattan because of the proximity of the renowned Yeshiva U and Upper West Side, Manhattan, are also home to Jewish communities.  Another neighborhood, the Lower East Side, though presently known as a mixing pot for people of many nationalities, including German, Puerto Rican, Italian, and Chinese, was primarily a Jewish neighborhood. Although the Jewish community of Staten Island is dispersed throughout the Island, enclaves of Hasidic Jews are found in the Willowbrook, New Springville, Eltingville, and New Brighton areas.

See also
 Demographics of New York City
 Cuisine of New York City
 Racial and ethnic history of New York City
 District X, a fictional enclave

References

External links

Ethnic enclaves
Ethnic enclaves
Ethnic enclaves in New York (state)