[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fatima Tlisova

Fatima Tlis or Tlisova (; born 1966) is a Russian-American investigative journalist, researcher and expert on Russia.

Life in Russia 
Fatima Tlis graduated from , Russia, with a Master of Arts degree in Russian language and literature.

Refugee status 
Tlisova claimed refugee status after facing severe intimidation after reporting on attempts to counter increasing Islamic and Chechen insurgency in the violent North Caucasus region following the outbreak of the Second Chechen War.
She reported being assaulted repeatedly since 2002, allegedly for filing reports not favorable to the Governments and Secret Services of the Republics of the North Caucasus, as well as the federal government of Vladimir Putin.  She claimed to have beaten and repeatedly had her ribs broken, had poisons administered, faced kidnapping and had cigarettes extinguished on her skin, and had her teenage son face harassment by the police.

After more than a month of speculation in the media, 
on 2007-06-28 the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists announced that Tlisova, along with Radio Liberty reporter Yuri Bagrov, had been granted political asylum in the United States, but after reports by her denying this, the announcement was changed to say that they had received "refugee status".

Persecution

Subsequently, she became the editor-in-chief of the Caucasus desk for the Regnum News Agency. Since 2005, she was also working with the Associated Press. She had travelled widely in the region, filing reports from Adygea to Dagestan.
 
Her conflict with the authorities started in 2002, shortly after she published an article about abusive practices of militias in Chechnya in the Obschaya Gazeta". One night, after a birthday party celebrating her 36th birthday, she had gone to the door of her apartment building to see off her guests. After they left,  she was dragged around a corner and beaten by two men. She was treated in hospital for broken ribs, concussion and other injuries.

In January 2005, she faced considerable harassment for a series of articles about the murder of seven shareholders in the firm Kavkaztsement. A few months earlier, they had challenged the firm's majority shareholder Ali Kaitov, nephew of the Republic president Mustafa Batdyev. Shortly after they went to see Kaitov at his dacha, gunshots were heard from the vicinity, and the seven disappeared. They included Rasul Bogatyrev, a deputy in the state legislature; the family of the murdered raised vigorous protests, and the case drew considerable attention in the international press. The relatives of the murdered people wrote to Vladimir Putin, saying that considering the dacha near which their sons disappeared belonged to the son-in-law of the republic's president, they were compelled to express "categorical distrust in both the law-enforcement organs and the organs of state power of Karachaevo-Cherkessia" in investigating this case.
After a month of official inaction, four of the seven bodies were found at the bottom of a mine; they had been dismembered and burnt with tyres as fuel. Subsequently, a large rally protesting the local government overcame teargas and reinforced police lines to take over the presidential palace. Tlisova reported from the scene, saying "Almost all of offices in the White House [government building] have been ransacked. There is no information available yet about the whereabouts of President Batdyev. Almost every window in the building is broken. The surrounding area is filled with paper and broken furniture. Some government officials and ministers are watching the events from the streets adjacent to the White House."<

Following Tlisova's coverage revealing further details of the murders, the Kabardino-Balkarian Interior Ministry withdrew her accreditation. She was accused of illegally receiving a pension and criminal proceedings were initiated, but were later dropped.

Shortly after this, she was forced into a vehicle. Federalnaya Sluzhba Bezopasnosti (Federal Security Services, FSB) agents then took her to a nearby forest and extinguished cigarettes on the fingers of her right hand, "so that you can write better". She also reports two occasions when she feels she had been poisoned - once in October 2003 when she applied face cream, from a jar in her own home, which peeled the skin from her face and fingers, and another time when she lost consciousness after sipping some tea, and ended up with serious heart damage.