[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Flag of Hezbollah

The flag of Hezbollah is the flag of the Shi'a political and military organization Hezbollah. The flag depicts a stylized representation of the Arabic words  (ḥizbu-llāh, meaning "Party of God") in Kufic script. The first letter of "Allah" reaches up to grasp a stylized assault rifle. The flag incorporates several other symbols, namely a globe, a book, a sword, and a seven-leafed branch. The text above the logo reads  (fa-inna ḥizba llāhi humu al-ġālibūna) and means "Then surely the party of God are they that shall be triumphant" (Quran 5:56), which is a reference to the name of the party. Underneath the logo are the words  (al-muqāwamah al-islāmīyah fī lubnān), meaning "The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon".

Symbolism

Colours 
 
Yellow is the predominant colour on the flag and forms the basis for its field. Whilst there is no reason given for this choice of colour, vexillologist Tim Marshall has theorised that it may have been chosen to signify Hezbollah's willingness to fight for the sake of Allah and the Shi'a faith.

The reasoning behind the usage of the colour green in the flag is more obvious. Green in Islamic symbolism is inextricably linked to the Islamic prophet Muhammad and the colour is mentioned numerous times within the Quran. As a traditionally Islamic colour, the usage of green on the flag is an overtly political and explicitly religious statement.

Sometimes the text on the flag appears in red lettering. The usage of red in this case is used to symbolise the blood shed by those who fell for the cause of the organization.

Imagery 
The symbolism of the fist grasping an assault rifle, which combines elements of the H&K G3 battle rifle and the AK-47, is twofold. The rifle is simultaneously symbolic of the party's left-wing ideological routes, sharing in the iconography of similar armed socialist movements. The rifle also represents Hezbollah's belief in an armed struggle against oppressive forces. However, opponents of Hezbollah interpret the inclusion of the rifle on the flag as proof that the groups aims are intrinsically tied with militant and violent action.

A globe can also be found depicted on the flag, symbolizing Hezbollah's global activities. Also depicted are a seven-leafed branch and a Quran, further highlighting the groups ties to Islam.

Text 
The central text on the flag displays the organisations name;   (ḥizbu-llāh) which translates to "Party of God". The 'Alif' (first letter in the word Allah on the flag) extends upwards to form the fist which clenches the assault rifle.

Above the central text is found an Islamic quote (Quran 5:56) فإن حزب الله هم الغالبون . This translates to  "Then surely the party of God are they that shall be triumphant" in reference to the party itself.

The text below the central text states  which translates to "The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon", which serves to promote the image of the groups cause as legitimate and righteous.

History 
 
Initially, Hezbollah operated under the flag of Iran as this was viewed by supporters as the flag of Islam, specifically of the Shia sect. The flag of Hezbollah first saw usage in the late 1980s and early 1990s, often being displayed alongside the Iranian flag.

Changes made to the flag of Hezbollah reflect the changing ideology of the party in the late 1990s and early 2000s. The two pillars of Hezbollah's ideology in the 1990s focused on an armed struggle against Israel twinned with the aim of establishing an Islamic republic in Lebanon. Referencing the latter goal, the text on the flag below the logo translated to "The Islamic Revolution in Lebanon" before 2001. Yet this changed in 2001 following the reversal of a policy of hostility towards Lebanon. The text was instead changed to "The Islamic Resistance in Lebanon" in order to more strongly emphasize Hezbollah's opposition towards Israel.

The flag has remained unchanged since the early 2000s and has grown to become a globally recognised symbol of Hezbollah, yet also one representative of Islamic extremism.

Use 
Predominantly the flag of Hezbollah is flown by supporters and fighters of the organisation throughout the Middle East, specifically within Lebanon. The flag has recently seen extensive use by Hezbollah supporters fighting in the Syrian Civil War. Internationally, the flag can be found flying at Islamic demonstrations. Notably the flag is often seen during pro-Palestinian protests, such as those held during Al-Quds day.

Hezbollah's flag also has a more symbolic use. The flag can often be seen draped over the coffins of deceased members of the organisation, evoking a sense of martyrdom for the cause.

Controversy 
 
The flag of Hezbollah has often caused controversy within some western countries. Both the military and political wings of Hezbollah have been banned in a number of countries. As a result, it is an offence to fly or display the flag of Hezbollah within these states.