[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mai Chen

Mai Chen is a New Zealand and Harvard educated lawyer with a professional and specialist focus in constitutional and administrative law, Waitangi tribunal and courts, human rights, white collar fraud and regulatory defence, judicial review, regulatory issues, education law, and public policy and law reform.  Chen is a barrister and holds an office in the Public Law Toolbox Chambers. She is an adjunct professor at the University of Auckland School of Law.  Having served previously in the university's Business School. Chen is also the Chair of New Zealand Asian Leaders, SUPERdiverse WOMEN and the Superdiversity Institute for Law, Policy and Business. She is married to Dr John Sinclair and the two have one son.

Chen has featured in Forbes magazine, TEDx talks and the National Business Review (NBR) and was a finalist for the New Zealander of the year award.

Early life
Born in Taipei, Taiwan, Chen immigrated to New Zealand with her family at the age of six in 1970. Hers was the first Taiwanese family in the South Island of New Zealand.  She studied at Otago Girls' High School, where she became a head girl, dux.

Education and scholarships
Chen attended the University of Otago (New Zealand) and graduated with a Bachelor of Laws Honours degree (first class) in 1986. She was admitted to the bar in the same year. 
Chen was awarded several scholarships, including the William Georgetti Scholarship granted by the New Zealand Governor-General, the Sir Harold Barrowclough Scholarship and the Butterworths Travelling Scholarship. 
In 1987 Chen was awarded the Frank Knox Memorial Fellowship to study at  Harvard Law School. Chen graduated with her Master of Laws from Harvard Law School in 1988 and won the Irving Oberman Memorial Award for the best Human Rights thesis at Harvard Law School. Her thesis was on the Treaty of Waitangi. 
Following Harvard Law School, Chen was awarded the Ferguson Human Rights Fellowship, a scholarship granted by the Harvard Human Rights Programme to be a Fellow at the International Labour Office in Geneva working on United Nations' Women's Convention and the ILO Indigenous Peoples Convention.

The University of Otago invited Mai Chen to accept her Honorary Degree of Doctor of Laws on 16 December 2023. The university also invited Mai to deliver the graduation address on this occasion. The awarding of Honorary Degrees is a centuries-old custom of universities whereby distinguished persons are promoted to the highest academic level in the university. Conferring an Honorary Degree is a recognition of the University of Otago's most outstanding graduates and those who have brought great credit to the university through their achievements. Areas of achievement include notable service to the university or community, eminence achieved in scholarship, or other areas considered worthy of recognition. The awarding of this Honorary Degree in 2023 is especially significant, as the Otago Faculty of Law celebrated its 150th anniversary.

Career
Chen interned at the United Nations' International Labour Office in Geneva in 1988. 
In 1989, Chen took up a lectureship at the law school at Victoria University of Wellington, and wrote her first book on the discrimination of women under the UN Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. In 1990, she chaired a government review on the Policy of Excluding Women from Combat, and in 1992 she became the youngest senior lecturer in law in New Zealand at that time. In 1993, she co-authored Public Law in New Zealand with former Prime Minister Rt Hon Sir Geoffrey Palmer QC, which was published by Oxford University Press.
In 1994, Chen became a lawyer at Russell McVeagh, but left after one year to co-found Chen and Palmer.

In September 2022, Chen left her role as Senior Partner of Chen Palmer to go to the Bar.

Chen Palmer

In November 1994, Chen set up the law firm Chen and Palmer alongside former New Zealand Prime Minister Rt Hon Sir Geoffrey Palmer QC. Chen bought out Sir Geoffrey Palmer when he left to head the Law Commission.
In 2013, Chen opened an Auckland office after failing to make headway in her first attempt.

Chen Palmer has been a market leader in the private practice of public law. Chen Palmer won the Best Boutique Law Firm in 2010, and Best Public Law Firm in the New Zealand Law Awards from 2007 to 2011, and 2013, and was a finalist in the Employment Law Awards in 2011. Chen Palmer was one of New Zealand's first boutique law firms and was Australasia's first "Washington-style" law firm specialising in legislation and public policy.

Other
In April 2015, Chen was appointed, as a director, to the Board of BNZ (Bank of New Zealand), one of New Zealand's largest banks. 
Chen is also chair on the People and Remuneration Committee, as well as sitting on the NZ Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.