[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Criticism of Greenpeace

upport."

Greenpeace published an article on its website, addressing the criticism so far, with a special focus on scientific issues.

The Guide to Greener Electronics has been continually updated with new rankings of the electronics manufacturers, and as of May 2010, 15 editions have been produced.

Greenland indigenous complaints
In 2010, when Cairn Energy found initial traces of natural gas in one of its test wells that indicate the possibility of much larger hydrocarbon deposits, Greenpeace sent its ship, the Esperanza'', into a stand-off with the Danish navy near Cairn's oil platforms. Many members of the community were angry with Greenpeace telling youngsters not to eat whale or seal, which the Inuit have eaten for centuries. As a result, Cairn Energy has gotten a warmer welcome than many environmentalists have hoped for. One person said this was "because it is for the greater good." A reference to the potential revenue energy exploration could bring to offset the $500 million annual grant from Denmark which could transform the economy and lead to Greenland independence.

However, Aqqaluk Lynge, from the Inuit Circumpolar Council, said an influx of foreign companies and workers could mean the natives "risk being a minority in our own country." He added that "One thing is for sure, yes Greenland has a chance to be rich, it's something that is essential for the people of Greenland to discuss and then decide if we want forced industrialisation." Greenpeace also stopped the trade of sealskin, something Greenlanders have never forgotten.

Neo-luddism
Several publications have accused Greenpeace of being anti-technology. In an editorial in the Register, Andrew Orlowski cites Greenpeace's opposition to research on nuclear fusion. Orlowski points out the incoherent and contradictory argument by Greenpeace that nuclear fusion is non-viable but then warns of the dangers that commercial nuclear fusion posed on the environment despite their claims that nuclear fusion is difficult to achieve. Other publications also criticized Greenpeace's stand against genetically modified crops and the unlawful destruction of those crops by its members.

Nuclear fusion 
Greenpeace falsely claimed that nuclear fusion is unsafe and produces waste like nuclear fission. However, nuclear fusion does not produce long lived nuclear waste nor is there a meltdown risk because the conditions required to sustain nuclear fusion mean that if there is a containment breach, the fusion reaction would simply halt.

Opposition to golden rice
In September 2013, several prominent scientists published a letter condemning Greenpeace and other NGOs for their opposition to golden rice, a type of rice that would be used in poorer countries. It is modified so that it has more vitamin A than normal rice. In the letter they state, "If ever there was a clear-cut cause for outrage, it is the concerted campaign by Greenpeace and other nongovernmental organizations, as well as by individuals, against Golden Rice."

Opposition to biotechnology 

In 2016, 107 Nobel laureates signed a letter urging Greenpeace to end its opposition to genetically modified organisms (GMOs). The letter stated: "We urge Greenpeace and its supporters to re-examine the experience of farmers and consumers worldwide with crops and foods improved through biotechnology, recognize the findings of authoritative scientific bodies and regulatory agencies, and abandon their campaign against "GMOs" in general and Golden rice in particular. Scientific and regulatory agencies around the world have repeatedly and consistently found crops and foods improved through biotechnology to be as safe as, if not safer than those derived from any other method of production. There has never been a single confirmed case of a negative health outcome for humans or animals from their consumption. Their environmental impacts have been shown repeatedly to be less damaging to the environment, and a boon to global biodiversity."

Mismanagement of funds
In June 2014, media outlets reported that one employee lost 3.8 million euros by betting on fixed rate concurrency exchange when the euro was gaining against foreign currency. Internal leaked communications by Kumi Naidoo, executive director of Greenpeace, indicates a "huge problem" and that the staff have "good reason" to be upset. At the same time Pascal Husting, one of the top executives of the organization, was shown to commute several times a month during a two-year period between Luxembourg, his home residence, and Amsterdam, the Headquarters of Greenpeace. This is against the organisation's view that short flights add to the  emissions and internal policies regarding short flights. Pascal later apologized publicly.