[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of Roman external wars and battles

e Chatti across the Rhine (83)
  Domitian's Dacian War (86–88) 
 87 – Dacian King Decebalus crushes the Roman army at Tapae (today Transylvania, Romania), Legio V Alaudae and general Cornelius Fuscus perish in battle.
 88 – the Romans return and obtain a victory in the same battleground

2nd century

 First Dacian War (101–102) 
 101 – Second Battle of Tapae – Trajan defeated Decebalus, with heavy losses.
 102 – Battle of Adamclisi - Roman forces led by Trajan annihilated a mixed Dacian-Roxolano-Sarmatae army, with heavy casualties on the Roman side.
 Second Dacian War (105–106) 
 106 – Battle of Sarmisegetusa – A Roman army led by Trajan conquered and destroyed the Dacian capital. Part of Dacia was annexed to the Roman Empire.
Roman conquest of the Nabataeans (106) – The Third Cyrenaica legion moved north from Egypt into Arabia Petraea, while the Sixth Ferrata legion, a Syrian garrison unit, moved south to occupy Bostra.
 Trajan's Parthian campaign (115–117) – Trajan invaded Parthia (planning its annexation) and occupied Ctesiphon while managed control of western Persia by a client ruler (Parthamaspates), but died. The Roman army withdrew, immediately abandoning the newly annexed provinces of Assyria, Mesopotamia and Armenia.
 Roman invasion of Southern Scotland (139-143) – Quintus Lollius Urbicus, by orders of Antoninus Pius, was sent to effect the reconquest of Lowland Scotland, winning some significant victories and building the Antonine Wall.
 Roman–Parthian War of 161–166 – Vologases IV invades Armenia, but is pushed back and Ctesiphon is sacked.
 Marcomannic Wars (166–180) – Roman Empire tried to expand in central Europe and stablish proposed roman province of Marcomannia (parts of the modern states and Slovakia and the Czech Republic) and Sarmatia (on Great Hungarian Plain). 
 170 – Battle of Carnuntum – Marcomannic King Ballomar defeats the Roman Army and invade Italy.
 178-179 – Praetorian Prefect Teratenius Paternus defeats the Quadi.
 179 or 180 – Battle of Laugaricio – Marcus Valerius Maximianus defeats the Quadi in Slovakia.
 198 – Battle of Ctesiphon – Septimus Severus invaded, sacked Ctesiphon, and reinstated the province of Mesopotamia in northern Mesopotamia.

3rd century 

   Roman invasion of Caledonia (208-210) - Roman forces led by Septimus Severus invade Caledonia because massive increase in raids and attacks on Roman Britain, but romans are forced to withdraw to Hadrian's Wall after the emperor became ill and died at Eboracum (York) on 4 February 211, suffering heavy casualties. Romans never campaigned deep into Caledonia again.
  Parthian war of Caracalla (216–217)
 217 – Battle of Nisibis – Bloody stalemate between the Parthians and the Roman army under Emperor Macrinus.
 Early Roman–Sasanian battles
 231–232 - War between the Sassanids under Ardashir I and Severus Alexander; resulted in humiliating Roman defeat and withdrawal.
 243 – Battle of Resaena – Roman forces under Gordian III defeat the Persians under Shapur I.
 260 – Battle of Edessa – Emperor Shapur I of Persia defeats and captures the Roman Emperor Valerian
 296 or 297 – Battle of Carrhae – Romans under the Caesar Galerius are defeated by the Persians under Narseh.
 298 – Battle of Satala – Galerius secures a decisive victory against Narseh, following a peace treaty.
  Gothic and Alemannic wars 
 235 – Battle at the Harzhorn - Roman army under Emperor Maximinus Thrax defeats a German army while withdrawing back to Roman territory.
 250 – Battle of Philippopolis – King Cniva of the Goths defeats a Roman army.
 251, Summer – Battle of Abrittus – Goths defeat and kill the Roman Emperors Decius and Herennius Etruscus
 259 – Battle of Mediolanum – Emperor Gallienus decisively defeats the Alemanni that invaded Italy
 268 – Battle of Naissus – Emperor Gallienus and his generals Claudius and Aurelian decisively defeat the Goths.
 268 or 269 – Battle of Lake Benacus – Romans under Emperor Claudius II defeat the Alemanni
 271 –
 Battle of Placentia – Emperor Aurelian is defeated by the Alemanni forces invading Italy
 Battle of Fano – Aurelian defeats the Alamanni, who begin to retreat from Italy
 Battle of Pavia – Aurelian destroys the retreating Alemanni army.
 298 –
 Battle of Lingones – Caesar Constantius Chlorus defeats the Alemanni
 Battle of Vindonissa – Constantius again defeats the Alamanni

4th century