[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Sustainable procurement

tainability between production and consumption.

B Corporation 
B Corporation (certification) (B Corp) demands support for the triple bottom line. B Corps are incentivized to buy local, organic, and from other B Corps. This promotes a chain of sustainable businesses that amplifies its effectiveness.

Voluntary Sustainability Standards 

The private sector also implements various Voluntary Sustainability Standards (VSS), such as certifications and accreditations, in order to ensure sustainable procurement, as well as to protect company brands. Reputational risks and concerns have proven to be a powerful impetus for implementing Voluntary Sustainability standards. For example, in 2012 Wal-Mart introduced the Wal-Mart Sustainability Index in response to claims that the company was notorious for unsustainably produced and sourced products.

These Voluntary Sustainability Standards have important implications, not only for supply chain security, but also for rural development and climate change. An initiative by the Aid by Trade Foundation, for example, trains smallholder farmers to produce sustainable cotton in exchange for exclusive contracts with international brands and retailers. The initiative creates a shared value opportunity wherein the companies benefit by securing their supply chains and meeting the growing consumer demand for sustainably sourced products, while the smallholder farmers are able to grow their businesses. Likewise, the Marine Stewardship Council leverages its certification program to encourage consumers to buy sustainably sourced fish and fisheries to fish more sustainably. The purpose of the program is not only to address growing concerns around the long-term viability of global fish populations, but also to prevent the collapse of the Northern cod fishery.

Sustainable procurement in Europe

European Union 
In 2008, the European Commission developed a catalog for Green Public Procurement (GPP), which contains the criteria for organic food as well as for animal products produced in compliance with animal welfare standards.

Austria 
An Austria-wide instrument is the Austrian Action Plan for Sustainable Public Procurement (naBe Action Plan). There is also the program ÖkoKauf in Vienna, which specifies criteria for the procurement of food by the public hand in Vienna.

Germany 
Sustainable procurement can be found in various institutions, e.g. Competence Center for Sustainable Procurement (KNB), Competence Center for Innovative Procurement (KOINNO), and National Quality Center for Nutrition in Kita and School (NQZ). In addition, there is the Organic Cities Network, which aims to use more food from organic farming in their public institutions. Since 2018, the public debate in Germany has centered on the German Supply Chain Act, a mandatory due diligence law for companies. A legislative proposal for the Supply Chain Act has entered the parliamentary process in March 2021.

Great Britain 
In 2014, the Department for Environment & Rural Affairs has defined the framework for sustainable food procurement in the Plan for Public Procurement. In addition, the Animal Cruelty Free Food Procurement Policy was issued in 2009 to promote animal welfare in the procurement of animal products.