[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pfalz D.XII

dlershof competition and a small production order ensued. Production was quickly terminated, however, and the D.XIV did not see active service. The D.XIV did not offer an appreciable increase in performance over the D.XII, and the Benz Bz.IVü engine was needed for reconnaissance aircraft.

Survivors

 In the 1920s, two D.XIIs were sold as war surplus to the Crawford Aeroplane & Supply Co. of Venice, California. Though badly deteriorated, the aircraft briefly appeared as props in the 1930 movie The Dawn Patrol. Both D.XIIs were eventually sold to private collectors. Today, one of these aircraft is now displayed at the Seattle Museum of Flight, after it was acquired from the defunct Champlin Fighter Museum, in Mesa, Arizona.  The second is exhibited at the National Air and Space Museum, in Washington D.C.
 A preserved D.XII aircraft is also displayed at the Musée de l'Air et de l'Espace in Paris.
 Serial 2600/18 was one of several Pfalz D.XIIs awarded to Australia in 1919 under the terms of the Armistice. Its service history is unknown. In late 1919, the aircraft was shipped from 2nd Aircraft Salvage Depot in France to England, and subsequently to Australia. It was temporarily exhibited in Melbourne and Adelaide in 1920. In 1924, the aircraft went on display in Sydney.

Serial 2600/18 was removed to storage in 2001. After an extensive restoration at the Treloar Technology Centre in Canberra, the aircraft went on display at the AWM's ANZAC Hall in 2008.

Operators

Military operators

 Luftstreitkräfte

 Polish Air Force (2 aircraft postwar)

Civil operators

 Paramount Pictures property manager Louis Kinnell took one airframe to the shops of Chaffee Junior College and restored it to flying condition. This aircraft was kept at Dycer Field (Los Angeles, California) and was flown without registration for a short time in 1939.

Specifications (D.XII)

See also

Footnotes

Citations

Bibliography
 Gray, Peter and Owen Thetford. German Aircraft of the First World War. London: Putnam, 1962. .
 Herris, Jack. Pfalz Aircraft of World War I (Great War Aircraft in Profile, Volume 4). Boulder, Colorado: Flying Machine Press, 2001. .

 VanWyngarden, Greg. Pfalz Scout Aces of World War I (Aircraft of the Aces No. 71). Oxford, UK: Osprey Publishing, 2006. .
 Weyl, Alfred Richard. Fokker: The Creative Years. London: Putnam, 1965. .
 Wynne, H. Hugh. The Motion Picture Stunt Pilots and Hollywood's Classic Aviation Movies. Missoula, Montana: Pictorial Histories Publishing Company, 1987. .

Further reading

External links

 Smithsonian Collection Pfalz D.XII

1910s German fighter aircraft
Military aircraft of World War I
D.XII
Aircraft first flown in 1918