[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Form I-9

ollowing documents may be used to establish identity:

 School record or report card;
 Clinic, doctor or hospital record or
 Daycare or nursery school record.

Employees who supply an item from List B (to establish identity) must also supply an item from List C (to establish employment eligibility).

List C
Documents that may be used under "List C" of the I-9 to establish employment eligibility include:
 A U.S. Social Security card issued by the Social Security Administration unless it indicates one of the following:
 NOT VALID FOR EMPLOYMENT (generally issued to non-immigrant aliens unauthorized to work) 
 VALID FOR WORK ONLY WITH INS AUTHORIZATION
 VALID FOR WORK ONLY WITH DHS AUTHORIZATION,
 A birth certificate issued by the U.S. State Department (Form FS-545 or Form DS-1350),
 Original or certified copy of a birth certificate from the U.S. or an outlying possession of the U.S., bearing an official seal,
 A Certificate of U.S. Citizenship (Form N-560 or N-561),
 A Certificate of Naturalization (Form N-550 or N-570),
 Native American tribal document,
 U.S. Citizen ID Card (Form I-197),
 An ID Card for the use of a Resident Citizen in the United States (Form I-179),
 An unexpired employment authorization card issued by the Dept. of Homeland Security (other than those included on List A) or
 Consular Report of Birth Abroad (Form FS-240).

U.S. citizens who have lost their social security card can apply for a duplicate at the Social Security Administration. 

Employees who supply an item from List C (to establish employment eligibility) must also supply an item from List B (to establish identity).

Reverification
Employers must update or reverify certain ID documents at or prior to their expiration date. This does not apply to already presented and accepted non-expired U.S. Passports or Permanent Resident Cards when they reach their expiration date, nor to any List B documents (e.g., state driver's licenses and state IDs). The USCIS website, in the Employer section, Employer Bulletins, lists the limited requirements and allowed instances for reverification.

For U.S. citizens, I-9s are valid continuously unless a break of more than a year of employment occurs. International employees on F-1 (student), H-1B (specialty occupation), or J-1 (exchange visitor) visas must have their I-9 reverified each time their visa has expired with a new work authorization permit (renewed visa with work authorization, EAD, Permanent Residence Card, etc.).

Retention
Employers must retain a Form I-9 for all current employees. Employers must also retain a Form I-9 for three years after the date of hire, or one year after the date employment ends, whichever is later. Employers must show their employees' I-9 form any time the immigration or labor authority requests it.

Anti-discrimination provisions
The Immigration Reform and Control Act which introduced the requirement leading to the promulgation of the I-9 form also included anti-discrimination provisions. Under the Act, most U.S. citizens, permanent residents, temporary residents, asylees or refugees who are legally allowed to work in the United States cannot be discriminated against on the basis of national origin or citizenship status. This provision applies to employers of three or more workers and covers both hiring and termination decisions. In addition, an employer must accept any valid document or combination of documents specified in the I-9 form as long as the documents appear genuine.

For example, an employer could not refuse to hire a candidate because his I-9 revealed that he was a non-citizen (such as a permanent resident or a refugee) rather than a U.S. citizen. For this reason some immigration lawyers advise companies to avoid requiring an I-9 until a candidate is hired rather than risk a lawsuit. As another example, a company could not insist that an employee provide a passport rather than, say, a driver's license and social security card. Another anti-discrimination provision requires that employers must enforce I-9 compliance in a uniform manner. For example, an employer must not require some employees to complete an I-9 before being hired, but allow others to complete the form after starting employment.

Employers must not assume that the employee is unauthorized to work just because the individual either could not bring the proof of employment authorization or has brought the unaccepted documents until the start date of the employment. Instead, employers should encourage that employee to bring the acceptable documents which are under the List A, B and C. Employers may terminate the employment only if the employee cannot attest the person's work authorization by bringing the proof after the start date.