[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Clifford B. Harmon

hours 3 minutes 30 seconds; the record was broken in September. Later in July Harmon made an attempt to fly across the Long Island Sound, but crashed when his Farman III biplane lost power; he was not seriously injured. By August 1910 Harmon had added two French Bleriot monoplanes to his collection.

On August 20, 1910, Harmon became the first man to fly across the Long Island Sound, flying from Garden City, Long Island, New York to Greenwich, Connecticut. Harmon attempted to land on the property of his father-in-law E.C. Benedict but could not locate it in the fading light of the day, instead landing nearby. On landing he hit a patch of rough grass which broke the chassis of the airplane. For the flight, Harmon was awarded the Doubleday-Page Trophy.

In September 1910 Harmon won the Harvard Cup at the Boston Aviation Meet; he competed in a bomb-throwing target contest and other events as an amateur aviator. He also was involved in another wreck of his Farman biplane but again was not seriously injured. In October 1910 Harmon participated in an aviation demonstration with Claude Grahame-White in Washington DC; later in October Harmon also set an unofficial altitude record of 24,200 ft in a balloon.

In May 1911 Harmon went to Europe to arrange for American aviators to participate in an International Aviation Meet at Belmont Park; in July he participated in a balloon race from Kansas City, Missouri, to qualify for Gordon Bennett Cup race but was forced from race when his balloon was caught in a severe thunderstorm. In December 1911 he announced retirement from balloon racing and airplanes at the behest of his wife, father-in-law, and various business associates.

Harmon returned to flight in November 1913 while spending time in England, participating in a flight from London to Paris with Claude Grahame-White. In April 1915 he, along with several other aviators and wealthy friends, participated in a scheme to commute regularly from New York to points at the eastern end of Long Island by airplane.

After moving to Paris in the early 1920s, Harmon became an advocate for various aviation causes. In December 1924 he offered to replace the Gordon Bennett Cup after it had been won by Belgium; the following year he proposed a memorial in Paris to Lafayette Escadrille aviators; the model for the monument became the Harmon Trophy for aviation. In 1926 Harmon founded and financed the International League of Aviators (Ligue Internationale des Aviateurs), followed by a promotional tour of Europe financed by the King of Belgium and using a Caproni bomber on loan from the Italian Air Force.

In May 1927 Harmon was on hand for Charles Lindbergh's arrival in Paris; Harmon met Lindbergh during post-flight receptions. In June, Harmon installed a plaque commemorating Lindbergh at Le Bourget airport in Paris.

In December 1928 Harmon sent a proposal to the League of Nations for an international air force that could be used by the League to prevent wars. While the proposal received some support, it was never seriously considered. In September 1930 Harmon made a flight in Villecoubly, France, commemorating his Long Island Sound crossing; with him on the flight was Maurice Farman, designer of the biplane Harmon used in the crossing.

In 1931 the Clifford B. Harmon Cup was created, to be awarded to amateur golfers.

Clifford Harmon continued to personally award the Harmon Trophy until 1938.

Later business ventures 
In 1912 Harmon was part of a syndicate that purchased Oklahoma oil leases from Charles Page for $1.25 million dollars. Also announced was a 2000 barrel-a-day refinery to be located at Sand Springs, Oklahoma.

In 1915 Harmon became president of Mirror Films Incorporated, a film production company formed to apply business practices to film and "look upon film...as so much canned product". The company exhausted its working capital by mid-1916 and was subsequently mired in lawsuits (notably a breach of contract lawsuit filed by Nat Goodwin) through 1918 which put the company out of business.

Personal life 
Clifford Harmon married Zephyr Hord on September 18, 1887, in Dayton, Ohio; they divorced sometime after 1898. Harmon was later engaged to be married to Blanche Freeman, but broke the engagement in April 1904 to marry Louise Adele Benedict, daughter of Commodore Elias Cornelius (E.C.) Benedict. Freeman sued Harmon for breach of promise in 1909 (after initially suing for $100,000 and withdrawing the suit at Harmon's request), receiving an award of $15,000 in 1910. The award was set aside on appeal and the case retried later.

Harmon left Louise Benedict in 1916 after an argument with E.C. Benedict over support for his daughter. In 1917 Harmon traveled to China, India, and Japan.