[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nels Ackerson

Secretary General Mikhail Gorbachev to advise Russian and Soviet lawyers on the application of market principles to advance Gobachev's plan for transition to a market economy. Ackerson and others in the U.S. Government supported delegation spoke to hundreds of  lawyers from across the Soviet Union.

		Student Exchange Programs: Ackerson's interest and involvement in international development have also included initiating the process to establish student exchange program for U.S. students in rural areas or with agricultural interests to share experiences in each other's countries, communities, and agricultural pursuits. The first such program was established with the government of Mexico, and was followed by other student exchange programs in Europe and Asia.

		Middle East Law, Policy, and Development:  During Ackerson's three years as managing partner of the first office established by an American law firm in Egypt – and continuing after his return to the U.S. – he  advised clients and participated in international investment and economic development issues in Egypt and elsewhere. While in Egypt Ackerson was one of the founders of the American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt and became its president. Ackerson also was a member of the board of the Bilateral Fulbright Commission in Egypt. Yemen's improved investment law was based on Ackerson's advice. Separately, Ackerson was leader of the U.S. sponsored advisory delegation to  Kazakhstan that followed the meetings in Russia on transition to market economy.

Selected publications 

  Community Development Corporations: A New Approach to the Poverty Problem (co-authored with Lawrence Sharf), Harvard Law Review (Vol. 82, pp 644–667, 1969)
  Report on the Desirability of Increasing the Massachusetts Cigarette Tax
  Harvard University, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Teaching and Research Materials (1971)
  Journal of a Hoosier Lawyer in Cairo, Series of Articles, Indiana State Bar Association Magazine  (1983)
  Doing Business in Egypt (1983-1984) - Series of Articles, Middle East Executive Reports (co-authored with Mohammed Hassouna)
  Speeches/Articles on Farm Credit System
  The Right Way to Cure Right-of-Way Wrongs, Telecom Real Estate Advisor, (Sept-Oct. 2001)       
  Right-of-Way Rights, Wrongs and Remedies: Status, Emerging Issues and Opportunities
  Drake Journal of Agricultural Law (Vol. 8, 2003) - Agricultural Biotechnology: New Risks – New Remedies (2003)
  Presented to American Agricultural Lawyers Association Annual Conference - Right-of-Way Rights, Wrongs and Remedies (2005)
  Presented to the Annual Conference of the American Agricultural Lawyers Association - Corridor Valuation: Law & Practice in a New Environment  (2006)
  Presented to the Appraisal Institute, Washington, DC

Selected congressional testimony 

 Hearing: Litigation and Its Effect on the Rails-to-Trails Program (107th Congress, June 20, 2004) - Committee on the Judiciary, U.S. House of Representatives (Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial & Admin Law)
 Hearing: National Trails System Act (106th Congress, May 9, 2000, Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks and Public Lands)

External links
Official Campaign Website
Issues
Ackerson Kauffmen Fex
Hoosier Political Report
Purdue University news
www.law.com

1944 births
Living people
Farmers from Indiana
American Presbyterians
Indiana lawyers
Harvard Law School alumni
Harvard Kennedy School alumni
People from Boone County, Indiana
Purdue University College of Agriculture alumni
Indiana Democrats
People from Westfield, Indiana
People associated with Sidley Austin