[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bloodties

discover an army of Mutates. The three are discovered by the Genoshan Magistrates. Just outside the city, the X-Men defeat Cortez's loyalists and question Cortez, only to be revealed that a Mutate was impersonating Cortez. Exodus defeats War Machine in a lengthy fight, and shifts his focus to Sersi.

Part IV: "Night and Fog"
Professor X, Beast, and the U.S. Agent battle with the Genoshan Magistrates, and come out victorious. They find Gyrich helping the Mutates, and join with him. Above Hammer Bay, Exodus and Sersi have a violent battle, leading the rest of the heroes to worry about Genosha's impending demise. At the UN Headquarters, Black Widow informs the attendants and UN officials the Avengers will no longer be under supervision of the United States government. The X-Men arrive in Hammer Bay, and examines the aftermath of the destruction the civil war has caused upon the once prosperous city. A few miles away, Sersi and Exodus fight to a stalemate, and the Black Knight and War Machine intervenes to stop Sersi from causing more damage. Beneath the Citadel, Jean, Quicksilver, and the Scarlet Witch meets with Crystal. Cortez appears, and holds Luna as a human shield. Scarlet Witch attempts to attack, but Quicksilver stops her, knowing Cortez will want one of them to react so Luna will die. Exodus arrives, and threatens to kill Cortez for the latter betraying Magneto, whilst Cortez begs the makeshift heroes to save him from Exodus.

Part V: "Of Kith and Kin"
Inside the Helicarrier, Nick Fury shows footage of Genosha's deteriorating state to the West Coast Avengers, with the Black Widow sadly admits that prayer is all they have right now. In Genosha, a force field is erected around the country to ensure no more involvement with outsiders. Below the Citadel, Exodus seemingly kills Cortez and takes Luna hostage in the process. The X-Men and the Avengers meet up and decide to find and take down Exodus. After Storm and War Machine unsuccessfully break down the barrier, Professor X sends an urgent telepathic message to the two teams. The X-Men and Avengers arrive to help Professor X, Beast, Gyrich, and the Agent vanquish the Genoshan Magistrates and their reinforcements. As they tend to the wounded, Exodus comes and reveals his plan to ultimately destroy Genosha. He proclaims he is only heir to be Magneto's only successor, and that to ensure it happens, he will kill the X-Men and anyone else that opposed his leader's dream of mutant supremacy. After Exodus orders the Mutates to kill the two teams or the island will be crushed by the force field, The X-Men and Avengers engage in an all out battle with the Mutates. After holding them back, Professor X launches a psychic attack on Exodus, allowing the Black Knight to knock him down and save Luna. A weakened Exodus unleashes a powerful attack on Quicksilver and leaves for Avalon. With Quicksilver near death, the Black Knight resuscitates his teammate's husband via CPR, giving Quicksilver life again. The morning after the crisis, Captain America and Professor X talk and wonder about the future of relations between humans and mutants.

Aftermath
One of the lasting effects of Bloodties was that the Avengers ceased to operate under a United Nations mandate. A second lasting effect was that it led to the official dissolution of the West Coast branch of the Avengers, until its revival by Hawkeyes Clint Barton and Kate Bishop, and the initial formation of the team Force Works.

Collected editions
The storyline was collected as a trade paperback in 1995 ().
In 2012 was collected as a hardcover ().

Reading order
 Part I: Avengers (vol. 1) #368 (1993)
 Part II: X-Men (vol. 1) #26 (1993)
 Part III: Avengers West Coast #101 (1993)
 Part IV: Uncanny X-Men #307 (1993)
 Part V: Avengers (vol. 1) #369 (1993)