[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Tashihchiao

in reserve, whereas the Russians still had six battalions. The failure of the Japanese offensive in face of superior Russian artillery boosted the morale of the defenders. However, even as the Japanese were preparing to renew their offensive the following day, the Russian were preparing to retreat.

Events of 25 July
After nightfall on 24 July, Lieutenant General Ueda Arisawa, the commander of the Japanese 5th Division expressed his shame at the performance of his division, and asked General Oku that he be allowed to carry out a night attack. Permission was granted, and after the moon provided enough light at 22:00, the 5th Division moved on the Russian left flank, quickly overrunning the Russian second and third defensive lines. At 03:00, the Japanese 3rd Division also made a night attack, and soon captured key hills which had formed the most important point on the Russian defensive line the previous day. Japanese artillery opened fire at 06:40, but the artillery fire was not returned. The Japanese Sixth Division began moving forward, followed by the Japanese Fourth Division at 08:00 hours.  By 13:00, the Japanese had occupied the remaining Russian positions and the town of Tashihchiao was in Japanese hands. Stakelberg had decided to withdraw immediately as soon as the initial Japanese night attack had begun, and he again conducted a brilliant retreat under fire.

Aftermath
There are wildly varying accounts on the number of casualties at the Battle of Tashihchaio, but historical consensus indicates about a thousand on each side. The Russian retreat was orderly, and by 27 July, the Russians were already  away.

Predictably, Viceroy Yevgeni Alekseyev was infuriated by Stakelberg's withdrawal, but Kuropatkin supported his subordinate. General Oku remained at Tashihchaio until 1 August 1904, when he again marched northward with three divisions, while the 5th Division was transferred to the new Japanese 4th Army under General Nozu Michitsura in time to be at the Battle of Hsimucheng.

Order of battle

Japanese
Japanese Second Army, General Oku Yasukata
IJA 3rd Infantry Division, Lieutenant General Ōshima Yoshimasa
IJA 4th Infantry Division, Lieutenant General Ogawa Mataji
IJA 5th Infantry Division, Lieutenant General Ueda Arisawa
IJA 6th Infantry Division, Lieutenant General Ōkubo Haruno
1st Cavalry Brigade, Major General Akiyama Yoshifuru
1st Artillery Brigade, Major General Uchiyama

Total: about 65,000 men, including 46,000 infantry and 252 guns.

Russian
1st Siberian Army Corps, Lieutenant General Georg von Stackelberg
1st East Siberian Rifle Division, Major General Aleksandr Gerngross
1st East Siberian Rifle Brigade Artillery, Major General Luchkarski
9th East Siberian Rifle Division, Major General Kondratovitsh
 Siberian Cossack Division, Major General Kossakowski
4th Siberian Army Corps, Lieutenant General Nikolai Zarubaev
2nd Siberian Rifle Division, Major General Levestam
3rd Siberian Rifle Division, Major General Kossowitsch
1st Siberian Artillery Brigade
Trans-Baikal Cossack Brigade, Major General Pavel Mishchenko

Total: about 60,000 men 105 guns.

Notes

References 
 Connaughton, Richard (2003). Rising Sun and Tumbling Bear. Cassell. 
 
 Journal of the United Service Institution of India, Volume 33, United Service Institution of India

Tashihchiao
Military history of Manchuria
Tashihchiao
1904 in Japan
Tashihchiao
Tashihchiao
July 1904 events