[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jamia Hamdard

broad clinical disciplines with blood bank and hospital laboratory services. HIMSR was the sixth medical college in National Capital Territory of Delhi, and the first model hospital in the public-private sector in the capital city of Delhi. The first batch of MBBS students was taken in August 2012.

The institute conducts research in cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. The Institute started a one-year postgraduate diploma in Preventive Cardiology in collaboration with All India Heart Foundation and the National Heart Institute, New Delhi. The Hamdard Imaging Centre has been established to provide medical imaging under one roof.  Free OPD facilities are provided to University students, teaching and non-teaching staff, their family members and very poor people.

HIMSR provides undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD courses in medical subjects.

Distance Education by Jamia Hamdard

The School of Open and Distance Learning (SODL) of Jamia Hamdard was established in 2004 to promote education through an open and distance learning system. Its flexible and innovative methods of education to ensure 'independent learning' to anyone, anytime and anywhere.

Jamia Hamdard has introduced three online degree courses for students all over India and World. The three online courses are:

 1 BBA (Bachelor of Business Administration) Eligibility: A Candidates Must have passed 10+2 examination from a recognized board/institute/ university. Duration: Six Semester Admission Fee: Rs. 14, 000.00 per Semester Examination Fee: Rs. 2000.00 per Semester Fee for Foreign Students: USD 600 Per Semester.
 2 BCA (Bachelor of Computer Application) Eligibility: A Candidates Must have passed 10+2 examination from a recognized board/institute/ university. Duration: Six Semester Admission Fee: Rs. 16,000.00 per Semester Examination Fee: Rs. 2000.00 per Semester Fee for Foreign Students: USD 600 Per Semester.
 3 B.Com. H. (Bachelor of Commerce- (Honors) Eligibility: A Candidates seeking admission to B.Com(H.) The program must have passed the 10+2 examination from a recognized board/institute/university Admission Fee: Rs. 14,000.00 per Semester Examination Fee: Rs. 2000.00 per Semester Fee for Foreign Students: USD 600 Per Semester.

Academics

Academic programmes
The university offers graduate and post-graduate programs in Modern Medicine, Unani Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy, Chemical and Life Sciences,Law, Information Technology, Computer Applications, Business Management, Islamic Studies, Human Rights, federal studies, Paramedical Sciences, Physiotherapy, Occupational Therapy,Journalism and Media.

It recently launched a new course in Medical Virology to cater to demands for trained virologists in India in Covid Times.

Rankings

Internationally, Jamia Hamdard was ranked 1201–1400 in the QS World University Rankings of 2023 and 451–500 in Asia. It was ranked 601–800 in the world by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings of 2023, 301–350 in Asia in 2022 and 351–400 among emerging economies.

In India, it was ranked 37th overall by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2020, 21st among universities, 22nd in the medical ranking and first in the pharmacy ranking.

Facilities

Jamia Hamdard provides residential facilities for its staff and students, both in and outside the campus. There are nine residential blocks in the campus which are meant for the residence of all categories of the teaching and non-teaching employees.

Jamia Hamdard has separate girls' and boys' hostels. Every hostel has a common room, reading room, dining hall, and visitors’ room. Number of hostels are as follows:

 2 UG girls hostels
 1 PG girls hostel.
 1 UG boys hostel. 
 1 Ibn-e-Batuta P.G. Boys hostel. (For MBBS Students and Ph.D. Students).
 1 International boy's hostel. (Jawahar Lal Nehru Hostel)
 1 P.G. Boys hostel for all stream students

A gymnasium, basketball ground. Playgrounds for cricket and football(5-A side) are also available.

The university has three canteens which are partially subsidized and are run by contractors.

External links

 Virtual tour of Jamia Hamdard Campus (YouTube)
 Jamia Hamdard Online Degree Website

See also
 List of Islamic educational institutions
 Distance Education Council
 Education in India
 Hamdard University Bangladesh
 Hamdard University Pakistan
 List of universities in India
 Universities and colleges in India
 University Grants Commission (India)

References

Universities and colleges in Delhi
Deemed universities in India
Unani medicine organisations
1989 establishments in Delhi
Educational institutions established in 1989