[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hurricane Gustav (2002)

t only minor roof damage was reported. Sporadic power outages were also reported. One person died at Myrtle Beach, South Carolina after suffering injuries in the high surf, and 40 other people had to be rescued from riptides and storm surges. Damage in North Carolina amounted to $100,000 (2002 USD).

New Jersey
Although the center of Gustav remained well offshore, the difference in pressure between it and a high pressure area located over the central United States, caused strong winds in areas of New Jersey on September 11. Wind gusts ranged from , with stronger winds reported near the coast. A maximum wind gust of  was reported at Keansburg. The strong winds downed trees and power lines throughout the eastern half of the state, damaging homes and blocking streets. At least 14,000 homes in the vicinity of Burlington and Ocean Counties were left without power. In West Windsor Township, a man was killed when the upper section of a concrete wall he was working on blew over and crushed him. The other death occurred in West Amwell Township, where a tree limb fell on two elderly women, killing one and injuring the other. Elsewhere, while there were reports of trees falling on vehicles, no other serious injuries or deaths were reported.

New York and New England
The interaction between Gustav and the non-tropical system caused strong winds that affected areas of coastal New England, mainly in eastern New York and Massachusetts. Some areas reported storm-force wind gusts of over , and a maximum wind gust of  was reported by a weather spotter in Catskill, New York. Wind gusts of up to  were reported in areas of Massachusetts. The winds downed trees and power lines, and several homes and cars were damaged by fallen trees. Over 29,000 homes were left without power in eastern New York, and 19,000 homes lost power in Massachusetts. In all, the winds caused $240,000 (2002 USD) in damage, but this damage was not directly attributed to Gustav in the National Hurricane Center's analysis.

In the New York City area, a peak wind gust of  was reported at John F. Kennedy International Airport. The winds caused some minor roof damage to buildings, and forced officials in New York City to cordon off parts of Manhattan as debris ranging from wrapping paper to crushed soda cans was blown about. This debris injured four people, one critically, and disrupted a 9/11 memorial service, though it continued as planned.

Sustained winds of , with gusts up to , were reported throughout Long Island. Damage on the island was mainly limited to downed trees and power lines, although the Long Island Power Authority reported that at least 93,000 homes lost power during the day on September 11. One person was killed when his boat capsized in the Long Island Sound.

Atlantic Canada
Despite gradually losing its tropical characteristics, Gustav brought heavy rain, storm and hurricane-force winds, and storm surges to areas of Atlantic Canada for several days. Strong winds knocked down trees and damaged docks in Nova Scotia, and a wind gust of  was reported on Sable Island. Gusts to over  were reported in Newfoundland, for several days after the center of Gustav moved out of the area. Rainfall amounts generally ranged from , with a maximum of  in Ashdale, Nova Scotia. Several locations set new daily rainfall records. Localized flooding was reported in areas of Prince Edward Island, and 4,000 people in Halifax, Nova Scotia and Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island were left without power. Despite the heavy rain and wind, there were no reports of deaths or significant damage in Atlantic Canada.

Distinctions
Gustav was the first subtropical storm to be given a name from the current name lists by the National Hurricane Center. Prior to the 2002 season, Atlantic subtropical storms were either not named, given a number from a separate numbering list than tropical cyclones, or for a brief period of time, given a name from the  NATO phonetic alphabet.

Normally, an average of three hurricanes form by September 11 of each year. Gustav attained hurricane status on September 11, making it the latest first hurricane to form in any season for 60 years, since the 1941 season, when the first hurricane developed on September 16.

See also

 Tropical cyclone
 Subtropical cyclone
 Other storms of the same name
 List of North Carolina hurricanes (2000–present)
 List of Canada hurricanes

References

Gustav
Gustav (2002)
Gustav (2002)
2002 natural disasters in the United States
Gustav
Gustav