[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS William H. Standley

tes Seventh Fleet operations off the coast of Vietnam.

Relieved by Mahan on 25 February, William H. Standley sailed for Japan and reached Sasebo five days later for upkeep and recreation. Departing that Japanese port on 14 March, the ship arrived at Subic Bay on the 17th for three days of training.

Resuming her operations in Vietnamese waters on 22 March, William H. Standley began a "difficult and demanding line period." Tensions in Korea had erupted, causing the U.S. naval forces in the Far East to go on alert. North Korean and U.S. forces had exchanged fire briefly near the demilitarized zone between the two Koreas on 11 March, and, on 15 April, North Korean fighters downed an EC-121 reconnaissance plane over international waters in the Sea of Japan. The plane, based at Naval Air Facility Atsugi, Japan, crashed with 31 men on board.

During her 50 days "on the line," William H. Standley spent approximately half the time on PIRAZ station and half on the southern Sea Air Rescue (SAR) station. Operational requirements necessitated the southward movement and required the ship to base two helicopters simultaneously. William H. Standley met the test, earning a commendatory message from Rear Admiral E. J. Rudd, entitled: "Stellar Standley."

Relieved by  on station, William H. Standley sailed to Hong Kong for rest and recreation, arriving at the British Crown Colony on 18 May 1969. Departing on the 24th, the ship sailed for Japanese waters and reached Yokosuka on 28 May.

William H. Standley returned to the "line" after eight days of intensive upkeep, relieving  as southern SAR ship on 9 June. For the next nine days, the ship acted as SAR and strike support ship for the aircraft carriers stationed in the Gulf of Tonkin. Relieved by  on 18 June, William H. Standley reached Pearl Harbor on 4 July 1969, pushing on for the Galápagos Islands the next day. Transiting the Panama Canal on 16 July, the ship reached Mayport on 20 July 1969.

From September through the year's end, William H. Standley remained at Mayport, preparing for her second Western Pacific cruise. Underway on 5 January 1971, the ship transited the Panama Canal four days later, and reached Pearl Harbor on the 23rd. After four days in Hawaii, the ship headed for the Mariana Islands, arriving at Guam on 5 February for a six-hour fueling stop.

Upon leaving Guam, William H. Standley set course for Subic Bay and, after assisting a merchantman in distress, the Philippine freighter Santa Anna, reached her destination on 10 February. Two days later, she sailed for the Gulf of Tonkin.

For the next 25 days, William H. Standley escorted the aircraft carrier  on the northern SAR station, before she put into Sasebo for a port visit. After brief patrol duty in the Sea of Japan, the ship returned to the Gulf of Tonkin to serve as PIRAZ vessel. She subsequently visited Hong Kong and Subic Bay (effecting rudder repairs at the latter port) and conducted one more PIRAZ tour before beginning her homeward voyage.

Sailing via Sattahip, Thailand, Singapore, Victoria, Seychelles, Maputo, Mozambique, the Cape of Good Hope, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and Naval Station Roosevelt Roads, Puerto Rico, William H. Standley reached Mayport on 18 August 1971, having circumnavigated the globe and steamed some 51,000 miles. For the remainder of 1971, the ship participated in refresher training and conducting local operations off the Florida coast.

William H. Standley earned four battle stars for her service along the coast of Vietnam.

1972-1977
Departing Mayport on 19 January 1972, William H. Standley took part in Operation "Snowy Beach" before being detached on the 25th to proceed to Naval Weapons Station Yorktown, Virginia, to take on weapons. Subsequently, returning to Mayport on the 28th, the ship departed her home port on 17 February to participate in Atlantic Fleet exercises. During the course of this cruise, she visited the port of Nassau, Bahamas, and Port Everglades, Florida, before she returned to Mayport on 9 March.

After her post-deployment in-port period, William H. Standley exercised in the Caribbean as flagship for Commander, Cruiser-Destroyer Flotilla (CruDesFlot) 6 that autumn, conducting gunnery shoots, with both guns and missiles, at drone targets under wartime conditions. During her time in Caribbean waters, the ship visited San Juan, Puerto Rico.

As the year drew to a close, the ship prepared for her first major overhaul since commissioning. After entering the Charleston Naval Shipyard on 20 November 1973, William H. Standley spent the first half of 1973 in shipyard hands.