[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HMS Saumarez (G12)

g low on ammunition, called on two Liberator bombers to sink the enemy. One of these sank one of the Japanese auxiliary, Risui with bombs. Volage sank the other auxiliary, Teshio Maru, with gunfire. Both escorts were also sunk. Saumarez was in Force 63 in April, when she bombarded Oleelhoe, Sumatra.

She was part of the escorting destroyers of the 21st Aircraft Carrier Squadron that took part in Operation Dracula from April to May 1945. She was part of the Carrier Force in Operation Bishop, formed to protect the convoys in the seaborne assault on Rangoon, and then took part in Operation Dukedom, which was mounted to attack a Japanese naval force reported sailing from Singapore on 10 May 1945.  On this occasion, she was part of the newly constituted Force 61. The  and destroyer  had left the Malacca Strait on 14 May and early next day a Grumman Avenger torpedo bomber operating from the escort aircraft carrier HMS Emperor sighted them. Saumarez,  and  in one division and  and  in a second, were diverted to intercept. The destroyers attacked both ships early on 16 May. Haguro, overwhelmed by their torpedoes, went to the bottom at 0209 in a position some forty-five miles southwest of Penang, although she had straddled Saumarez twice prior. Kamikaze was damaged but managed to escape.

Post-war
Saumarez was refitted at Durban from June to August. Although Japan had formally surrendered on 2 September, the occupation of Western Malaya (Operation Zipper) was carried out almost as planned originally. Saumarez was one of the fifteen destroyers screening the operation. The 26th Destroyer Flotilla left the East Indies Headquarters at Colombo on 17 November and arrived in the UK early in December. Saumarez went to Plymouth for refit and preparation for service in the Mediterranean.

Early in March 1946 Saumarez sailed for the Mediterranean, for service in the 3rd Destroyer Flotilla. In June she intercepted a caïque carrying 382 illegal immigrants bound for Palestine and towed the caique to Haifa. A boarding party from Saumarez also arrested SS Hochelaga off Haifa on 31 July, carrying 500 immigrants.

Corfu Channel incident

On 26 September 1946, she sailed on a Mediterranean cruise with twenty-four other ships. Orders were given for a part of the 1st Cruiser Squadron to pass through the Corfu Strait, from south to north. On 22 October the Saumarez, preceded by the cruisers  and the New Zealand , followed by the destroyer Volage, proceeded through the swept Medri channel. Saumarez struck a mine at 14:53, which caused severe damage and 30 deaths among her crew.  Damage control parties led by the ship's second-in-command, Teddy Gueritz, helped to minimise the casualty numbers. Volage closed her to take her in tow and after some difficulty, passed the tow and began to tow Saumarez stern first. Although his jaw had been broken by the explosion, Saumarezs signal officer, John Edmondson assisted in securing the tow. At 16:06 however, a mine exploded near Volage, wrecking the ship forward. She was able to re-connect the tow to Saumarez, and the two destroyers, both stern-first, reached the Corfu Roads at 03:10 on 23 October.

Saumarez was then moved to Malta, where she remained until September 1950. In February 1948 approval to scrap Saumarez was given. On 23 August 1950 the hulk arrived at Gibraltar. She was then towed back to the UK and broken up at Rosyth.

References

Publications

 

 

S and T-class destroyers
Ships built on the River Tyne
1942 ships
World War II destroyers of the United Kingdom
Maritime incidents in 1946
Corfu Channel incident