[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# List of South African slang words

Beetle" (based on the German/Afrikaans pronunciation – "folks-vach-en"). It essentially translates to "little Volkswagen". Also known as a "Volla".
 vrek – Afrikaans, meaning an animal dying. Possibly from Dutch verrekken to dislocate? Is considered extremely rude when used to refer to a person that has died, as the person would be likened to a mere animal.
 vroeg ryp, vroeg vrot – lit. "the quicker the fruit ripens, the quicker it will rot". Refers to anything that is being rushed.
 vrot – bad, rotten, putrid, sometimes drunk
 vrotbek – someone who swears a lot or is swearing a lot at the moment, as well as someone with bad breath.
 vry – to make out or courting (equivalent to American "necking", British "snogging" or Australian "pashing")
 Vrystaat vernier – shifting spanner
 vuilbek – lit. "dirty mouth", refers someone who swears a lot or is swearing a lot at the moment.
 vuil uil – lit. "dirty owl", an unsavoury character, a person of ill repute, guilt of transgressions
 waai – Afrikaans for "wave hello/goodbye". Slang for "to go". Durbanites like to say "Hey, let's waai pozzy." = "Let's go home." Also refers to the blowing of wind.
 dis n Weber dag/maand/koffie – Afrikaans slang to describe a good day or thing, using Weber. Originated from a High School teachers attitude and the students adopted it.
 waar val jy uit die bus uit/van die bus af? – lit. "Where did you fall off the bus?". Is a question usually asked when the person you are talking to, wasn't paying attention to the topic changing when they joined the discussion, and as a result they usually interrupt the discussion with an off-topic question.
 watookal – lit. "what also all."  Whatever.
 wakkerslaap – despite its original Dutch meaning "worry", it can also be used to verbally "wake-up" a drowsy person.
 windgat – lit. "wind hole."  A loquatious over-talkative, perhaps bragging person.
 woes – wild, untidy, unkempt or irreverent. A general term pertaining to either a person, behaviour or situation. Also could mean angry, in a rage, or sexually aroused.
 word wakker, die dag word al swakker! – lit. "become awake, the day is getting ever-weaker." A wake-up call in military fashion, usually is accompanied with loud banging on the door.
 wys – multiple meanings – to insult (see tune) or to say e.g. "Yoh, John wys me after I told him to shut up!". Also refers to "wysheid" (wisdom/wise) in a sarcastic tone: "O jy dink jy's wys né! (You think you're smart huh, do you!)
 yoh – an expression of surprise e.g., "Yoh, that was rude" "Yoh, you gave me a fright!", (Police-chief talking about the poor physique of his policemen): "They should look at our men and say "yoh!".
 ysterperd – "iron horse", describes a motorcycle, specifically a Harley-Davidson-style "full-size" motorcycle. Is derived from the fact that a motorcycle, with all its uses, is the modern day equivalent of a horse-and-rider.
 ystervarkie(s) – lit. "iron piglets". Also known by their English/Australian name "Lamingtons", these are small cubes of sponge cakes dipped in chocolate syrup and covered in desiccated coconut. It takes its Afrikaans name from the ystervark (Afrikaans for porcupine) due to its resemblance to the animal.
 zap – while the original English usage remains intact, though the term "to shock" is preferred, it also refers to one's obscene usage of the middle finger, while a "double-zap" would be where both middle fingers are extended at the same time.
 zef – from the Ford Zephyr car, cheap to tune up; cool, rough guy; common person; kitsch, trashy
 zol – a homemade cigarette rolled with old newspaper or Rizla pape, possibly marijuana-filled, equivalent to American "doobie"

Words from Khoi languages 
aitsa – is usually used when exclaiming agreement like you would when saying "sweet!", "nice!", "lekker!", and "got it!".
buchu – a wonderful smelling range of medicinal plants.
dagga – marijuana (has become a mainstream word in South African English) (from Khoe daxa-b for Leonotis plant)
eina – exclamation of pain, as in ouch (from Khoekhoe exclamation of pain or surprise)
goggo – bug (from Khoe xo-xo, creeping things, here the g is pronounced like ch in Scottish loch)
kaross – garment made of animal skin (from Khoe meaning skin blanket)
kierie – a walking stick, or cane, usually made of wood. Primarily used by the elderly as general usage of a cane fell out of fashion among younger generations, though people still have a habit of when carrying a stick to use it as a walking stick, even though they don't necessarily need it.

Words from Xhosa, Zulu and other Nguni languages