[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jonny Howson

dually re-established himself as a first team regular with Fabian Delph being moved out to a wide left midfield position. Howson finished the season in a permanent central midfield place alongside Neil Kilkenny and started in both of the club's two unsuccessful play-off semi-finals against Millwall.

2009–10 season
At the beginning of Leeds' third campaign in League One, Howson was appointed the new Leeds vice-captain and due to the absence of club captain Richard Naylor, took the captaincy for the start of the season. Howson started the season well, creating a solid central midfield partnership with Michael Doyle and leading the team to nine straight wins in all competitions but he lost the armband when club captain Richard Naylor made his return from injury against Carlisle United in late September. Leeds topped the league for much of the first half of the season after an excellent star; losing only once in the league between August and January, running Premier League giants Liverpool close in a 0–1 defeat in the League Cup and reaching the third round of the FA Cup and regional final of the Football League Trophy by the start of the new year. Leeds began 2010 away to arch-rivals and Champions of England Manchester United in the FA Cup. Howson provided a fifty-yard assist for Jermaine Beckford early in the first half as the League One club caused one of the competition's greatest ever upsets and Leeds' first victory at Old Trafford in nearly thirty years in a 1–0 victory. It was the first time that the Reds had been eliminated from this stage of the competition under Alex Ferguson. Leeds faced Tottenham Hotspur in the next round three weeks later when Howson again provided a long-range pass for Beckford who won a last-minute penalty. With United trailing 2–1, Beckford grabbed the equaliser from the spot to bring Spurs back to Elland Road. Unfortunately, Tottenham won the replay 3–1 and Leeds also missed out on another Wembley appearance after losing on penalties to Carlisle United after drawing 4–4 on aggregate in the Football League Trophy regional final.

Howson scored his fourth goal of the season in the West Yorkshire derby against Huddersfield Town, with the game finishing 2–2. After beginning the year eight points clear with a game in hand at the top of the table, Leeds' league form started to falter. The club's success in the cups had placed great strain on the side having played fifty games by the beginning of March. Norwich City had overtaken them at the top and promotion rivals Swindon Town, Millwall and Huddersfield Town gained ground. United eventually fell out of the automatic promotion zone after a 3–0 defeat at home to Swindon but they recovered and went into the final game of the season versus Bristol Rovers at Elland Road simply needing a win to get promoted at the third time of asking. Howson's poor form had seen him dropped to the bench but he came on after Rovers had taken the lead. Howson quickly equalised and the goal galvanised the crowd and team. The visitors soon began making mistakes and Beckford gave Leeds the advantage soon after. Leeds held on to their 2–1 lead and secured the runners' up spot; earning promotion back to the Championship in doing so.

2010–11 season

Howson remained an integral part of the first team as Leeds returned to the Championship. He started on the opening day of the season versus Derby County and provided an assist for Luciano Becchio to equalise early on in the game but he was unable to prevent the Whites from losing their first opening day fixture since 1989 as the Rams secured a surprise 2–1 away win. He took the captaincy for United's next game versus Lincoln City in the League Cup and he opened the scoring in a 4–0 victory in under two minutes. He gained his first league goal of the season a few weeks later in a shock 5–2 defeat to Yorkshire rivals Barnsley.

As United continued their slow start to the season, they went into their game versus Scunthorpe United on 30 October on the back of a crushing 4–0 home defeat versus Cardiff City and with Grayson's position under scrutiny. Scunthorpe cancelled out Max Gradel's early strike with an equaliser midway through the first half as the teams went into half-time at 1–1. With Howson playing in his preferred attacking midfield position, he scored a surprise fifteen-minute hat-trick during the second half as Leeds sealed a valuable 4–1 victory. This feat was made all the more remarkable as it was considered to be a 'perfect' hat-trick; consisting of three goals with left-foot and right-foot strikes as well as a header. The game proved somewhat of a catalyst for the side as it began a twelve-match unbeaten run which would last into the new year and propel United into automatic-promotion contention. Howson – thriving in a more attacking position – added a further three goals during this run in away victories over Coventry City, Burnley and a draw at home to Portsmouth.