[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Humanitarian aid during the 2006 Lebanon War

eirut on a bus arranged by the Norwegian embassy on July 16, 2006; another group of six who were unable to board the bus after an apparent misunderstanding was evacuated by a Finnish bus on July 17, 2006. It was further planned to fly them to Copenhagen from Damascus's international airport.

India 

India redirected four of its naval vessels (, , , and ) which had been returning to India after a goodwill visit to the Mediterranean region to Lebanon to evacuate Indian citizens. All of the ships were at battle stations, with guns and missiles fully warmed up. Already 49 Indians had been evacuated to Syria by bus. The ships shuttled between Beirut and Cyprus to evacuate Indians, from where they were flown out by Air India. The operation also evacuated Lebanese spouses of Indian citizens, as well as citizens of Sri Lanka and Nepal who had been living in Lebanon.

Ireland 
On July 17, two buses carrying 82 people departed Beirut to crossed the Lebanese-Syrian border and arrived safely in Damascus where they flew onwards to Dubai and then Dublin. The majority of passengers were Irish citizens but there were also a small number of other EU citizens. 16 Irish people who made their own way to Damascus and were including in arrangements to fly the Irish evacuees home to Dublin. A woman who is six months pregnant and her two children were flown back to Dublin on the Government jet. A further 50 Irish people remained in Beirut. They were transported out of Lebanon on July 20.

The Irish Government refused to allow US jets carrying bombs bound for Israeli use to re-fuel in Ireland. The jets were diverted to Prestwick Airport in Scotland causing embarrassment for the British government (see below).

Italy 
Italian destroyer Durand de La Penne successfully evacuated more than 350 Italians from Beirut to Larnaca, Cyprus, on Monday July 17, 2006. The civilians were then transferred to Rome, Italy, with a few civil flights operated by Alitalia.

Moldova 
On President Vladimir Voronin's instructions, there was set up an operative inter-ministerial committee to deal with the evacuation of the Moldovan citizens from Lebanon, Israel and Gaza Strip. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, as of July 27 about 150 out of 240 Moldovan citizens living in Lebanon have left the country. The evacuation, started on 18th, is done with the help of Russian, Romanian and Ukrainian authorities.

Norway 
Five buses evacuated approximately 150 Norwegian citizens (most of Lebanese origin) over Tripolis to Damascus. The Norway-registered ship HUAL Transporter evacuated ca. 200 Norwegians and a number of other nationalities, among them Swedes, Finns, Canadians and a large group of Americans in the afternoon of July 18. The ship headed for Cyprus with ca. 1200 evacuees aboard. A number of Norwegian citizens are also reported being in southern Lebanon. The people involved are being shipped out from Tyre to Cyprus July 20.

Philippines 
Many Overseas Filipino Workers in Lebanon escaped to Syria, from where they were flown to Manila. The Philippine government assisted in the evacuation, and appealed to the Lebanese government to allow Philippine workers who were obligated by contract to continue working in Lebanon to leave.

Romania 
The repatriation plans of Romanian citizens from Lebanon were established at a top level reunion convoked by Romanian President Traian Băsescu on Sunday, July 16. The participants were the Foreign Affairs Ministry, the Ministry of Defense, and the intelligence services SRI and SIE.

According to data from the Foreign Ministry in Bucharest, there were about 1200 Romanian citizens, both residents and tourists, in Lebanon at the beginning of the conflict. Romania's Foreign Affairs minister Răzvan Ungureanu asked his Syrian counterpart Walid Al-Mouallem to help Romanians transiting Syria on their way back home. All together, over 400 individually entered Syria, and other 651 were evacuated by the Romanian authorities. They are Romanians and Moldovans, Lebanese married to Romanians and foreign diplomats. There were 283 evacuated on 18th, 146 on 19th, and 222 on 20th. The convoys, bearing the Romanian flag, left the Romanian Embassy in Beirut in the mornings of the afore mentioned days to Damascus, where the refugees left from by air to Henry Coandă Airport in Bucharest, arriving there the next day, few hours after the midnight. The evacuation of others was reported to be ongoing, but their arrival at the embassy is known to be burdened by the destruction of the roads. There is no evacuation news since July 21.