[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Employment Standards Act of British Columbia

The Employment Standards Act of British Columbia (Canada), is legislation enacted by the provincial government of British Columbia to protect the rights of working people. Sections within the act outline the employers responsibility to their employees, notably things such as minimum wage, meal breaks, and parental leave. The act also works to protect residents of the province by preventing employment discrimination.

Part I: Introduction

This Act applies to all employees, with the exception of those expressly excluded by regulation. The standards set out in the Act are considered minimum requirements, and agreements to waive such requirements are considered of no force and effect, unless the agreement in question is referred to in s. 3(2) or (4).

Objectives

The purposes of this Act are as follows:
(a) to ensure that employees in British Columbia receive at least basic standards of compensation and conditions of employment;
(b) to promote the fair treatment of employees and employers;
(c) to encourage open communication between employers and employees;
(d) to provide fair and efficient procedures for resolving disputes over the application and interpretation of this Act;
(e) to foster the development of a productive and efficient labour force that can contribute fully to the prosperity of British Columbia;
(f) to contribute in assisting employees to meet work and family responsibilities.

Scope of the Act

The Act applies to all employees other than those excluded by regulation.

"Employee" includes:
A person, including a deceased person, receiving or entitled to wages for work performed for another,
A person an employer allows, directly or indirectly, to perform work normally performed by an employee,
A person being trained by an employer for the employer's business
A person on leave from an employer, and
A person who has a right of recall

Exceptions

Federally regulated employers (for example, banks, broadcasting, rail transportation, and postal contractors) are governed by the Canada Labour Code.

There are also some specific exemptions:
Professionals, such as accountants, engineers, dentists, lawyers
Students engaged in work study programs

In addition, if a collective agreement deals with:

Hours of work or overtime
Statutory holidays
Annual vacation or vacation pay
Seniority retention, recall, termination of employment or layoff

then corresponding provisions of the Act do not apply. If the collective agreement does not deal with these topics, this Act does apply.

Managers are exempt from the hours of work, overtime and statutory holiday provisions. "Manager" is defined as: 
A person whose principal employment responsibilities consist of supervising and/or directing human or other resources
A person employed in an executive capacity

Independent contractors are not considered employees. In order to classify an individual as one or the other, there are four common law tests that can be applied:
Control test
Four-fold test
Organization or integration test
Permanency test
Specific result test
Economic reality test

It is important to note that the requirements set out in this Act generally cannot be waived since they are minimum requirements.

Part II: Hiring Employees

The provisions in this section deal with topics such as the hiring of children, the licensing of employment and talent agencies and farm labour contractors, and requirements for those working as domestics and working in residences.

Part III: Wages, Special Clothing and Records

The general minimum is $15.20 per hour since June 1, 2021. There are also special minimum wages in the Regulations for certain types of employees, such as home support workers and farm workers.

Wages can be paid by cash, cheque, draft or money order. Direct deposit can be used only if expressly authorized.
Wages should be paid semi-monthly, with no more than 16 days between pay days, and no more than 8 days after the pay period.

An employer cannot directly or indirectly withhold wages, and cannot require employees to contribute towards the costs of business (except under the Regulation).

A wage statement must be provided to the employee on each pay day unless it would be the same as the statement given in the last pay period.

Part IV: Hours of Work and Overtime

Employees are to receive a 30-minute meal break at least once every 5 hours. This break is to be unpaid, unless the employee is required to work or to be available for work during the break.