[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System

s create vulnerabilities for those who want to protect information, and opportunities for those seeking it. In addition, cyberterrorism is not restricted by geographical bounds. Networks can be hacked remotely from across the globe without warning. This creates jurisdictional issues for enforcement.

A key vulnerability for secret level networks such as JWICS is what is described as a 'sneakernet threat.' These systems are designed to be separate from the unclassified internet, creating a protection from malware. However, the systems also rely on users uploading documents from the internet. This creates a risk of viruses being passed on along with the information into the secure system.

An example of this threat came to reality in 2008 when Russian malware made its way into the SIPRNET system by way of a thumb-drive which was plugged into classified-level computers accessing the network. These computers lacked virus protection due to their detachment from the internet, and were compromised as a result. The virus, once gaining access to these networks, acted as a 'beachhead' which allowed the transfer of data to foreign computers The hack was, at the time, the largest compromise of US cybersecurity in history, and initially led to a ban on the use of thumb-drives. this was later repealed.

JWICS is structured slightly differently to SIPRNET. JWICS is accessed via "terminals" in protected facilities known as Secret Compartmentalized Information Facilities. These physical facilities are highly protected as physical structures. This is because they present strategic advantage. If one terminal is accessed by an enemy, all of JWICS is available to them until that terminal is disconnected from the network. Because of JWICS' structure, allowing access only through secure facilities, it is relatively protected from outside threats. However, there is an intrinsic vulnerability in JWICS that is summarized by Clarke and Knake in Cyber War: The Next Threat to National Security and What to do About It:

The mounting threat to US cybersecurity has led to some developments surrounding defense. In 2011, Leon Panetta and other intelligence officials gave statements about the growing vulnerability of the US to cyber attacks. This stemmed from Pentagon Reports about critical security breaches in government and business networks.

Since then the Department of Defense has rolled out and continually developed 'Einstein' software aimed at detecting and preventing intrusion into federal government networks. In addition, "the Department of Homeland Security and the NSA signed a memorandum of understanding the improve collaboration between the agencies."

The 2008 Russian infiltration of SIPRNET led to large reforms in terms of defense strategy. In 2008, then defense Secretary Robert Gates moved to create a dedicated infrastructure dealing specializing with cyber warfare strategy – the Cyber Command. Cyber command was originally designed by Colonel Paul Nakasone, Lieutenant Colonel Jen Easterly, Navy Captain T. J. White, and Air Force Colonel Stephen Davis. These four became colloquially known as 'The Four Horsemen' and set out to create the framework for Cyber Command, the US's dedicated cyber-strategy wing.

In 2016, Cyber Command gained separation from the NSA, elevating it to have a direct line to the White House. The Trump administration has further stretched the team's authority, allowing them to take a more offensive approach to cyber strategy.

See also 
Worldwide Military Command and Control System
Global Command and Control System
 Classified website
 Intellipedia
NIPRNET
SIPRNET
TNet
WikiLeaks
Julian Assange
Chelsea Manning

References

External links
 DoD USMC JWICS Program
 DoD DISA Data including JWICS (TS/SCI IP Data)

United States Department of Defense
Military communications
Defense Intelligence Agency
Wide area networks
United States government secrecy
Computer network security
Intelligence assessment
Computer networks