[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Scar (Fullmetal Alchemist)

ing Lior.

Reception
In each of the popularity polls made by Monthly Shōnen Gangan Scar has appeared within the top 20. As a result of often sharing his spot with animals and Hiromu Arakawa's alter-ego, the character has been shown angered after the end of the polls, to the point of killing Arakawa.

Critical response to Scar's character and development has generally been positive. DVD Talk writer Bobby Cooper initially noted Scar's story to be one of the series' themes against religion, but concluded that it was not as he was just using his religion to justify his murders. Todd Douglass Jr. from the same site called him "a deep character with a tragic past" as despite being a murderer, he comes to share the same points of view from the Elric brothers across the series. Holly Ellingwood from Active Anime noted Scar to be "a character so much deeper than just a foil for the brothers" [Edward and Alphonse Elric] due to how along the series it is shown his backstory and it is explained why is he determined to kill all the State Alchemists unlike other villains. Mania Entertainment's Chris Beveridge celebrated Scar's introduction in the second anime series Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, remarking that "we learn a good deal of recent history in a short time that paints a picture of exactly what’s going on". While reviewing the first anime's second DVD, Sean Broestl from Anime News Network (ANN) was curious to who is such character, as he is shown in the first episodes but he is never introduced. However, he was looking forward to seeing his introduction and how he would affect the Elric brothers. His second fight against the Elric brothers in the manga and his confrontation with Winry Rockbell were praised by Sakura Eries from Mania who found the former to have its "own surprise moments" while the latter had her "on the verge of tears". Carlo Santos from ANN also praised Scar's fights in following volumes from the manga, commenting that they contain "lots of exhilarating action and creative fighting moves".

References

Anime and manga characters who can move at superhuman speeds
Anime and manga characters with superhuman durability or invulnerability
Anime and manga characters with superhuman strength
Fictional alchemists
Fictional amputees
Fictional assassins in comics
Comics characters introduced in 2002
Fictional characters with disfigurements
Fictional characters with elemental transmutation abilities
Fictional genocide survivors
Fictional male martial artists
Fictional mass murderers
Fictional monks
Fictional outlaws
Fictional revolutionaries
Fictional priests and priestesses
Fictional rampage and spree killers
Fictional serial killers
Fullmetal Alchemist characters
Male characters in anime and manga
Martial artist characters in anime and manga
Orphan characters in anime and manga
Vigilante characters in comics