[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paul Barillon

he failure of the Exclusion Bill, Barillon records the King telling him in strict confidence that he had been tempted to let it pass. Even Barillon, an astute diplomat, admitted to finding Charles unfathomable: "his conduct so secret and impenetrable that even the most skilful observers are misled".

Only once does he seem to have been guilty of a serious diplomatic blunder: late in 1679 an indiscreet letter of his, reporting a conversation where Charles II claimed to have personally blocked a Franco-Dutch treaty, was leaked in the Netherlands. It caused an uproar, and Charles was so angry with Barillon that he forbade him the Court for a time. Sunderland, who had probably leaked the letter, remarked complacently that "I do not question M. Barillon finds himself embarrassed, but when anybody will play such tricks, it is but just that it should come home to him at last". His disgrace was temporary, but afterwards he was far more careful about what he committed to paper. At other times his relations with Sunderland were amicable enough, although Sunderland sometimes treated him to his famous outbursts of rudeness, and on one occasion Barillon told him that he would not report his remarks if he could not control himself. When it was rumoured in 1685 that the French had given tacit support to Monmouth's Rebellion, Sunderland told Barillon pointedly that he hoped this was a misunderstanding, or else the English would wonder if Louis had 'other plans they could not discern'. Later Sunderland mocked Louis' vaunted desire for European peace, saying brutally to Barillon that the peace would last until it was in someone's interest to break it.

Barillon's privileged position was confirmed in the last days of Charles II's reign, when, alone among the diplomatic corps, he was allowed to send a secret message to Louis XIV that the King was dying. In the events leading to Charles' deathbed reception into the Roman Catholic Church, he played a role of some importance. While the King's brother James was already convinced of his brother's wish to convert, it was Barillon, prompted by Louise de Kéroualle, who urged James to act at once. Together they visited the dying King, and Barillon witnessed Charles' statement that he wished to be received  "with all his heart".

Immediately after the Glorious Revolution of 1688, William of Orange expelled Barillon from England, to pique the French (this was a serious breach of diplomatic protocol as England and France were not yet formally at war). He had him escorted to the coast under a guard of Huguenots. He died soon after in France.

Personal traits
James II's biographer describes him as an astute diplomat, with an ability to convey information through subtle hints, but he was personally a rather unattractive individual, being heavy, gross and boorish.

Famous French fabulist Jean de La Fontaine dedicated a poem to him entitled "Le pouvoir des fables."

References

1630 births
1691 deaths
17th-century French diplomats
Ambassadors of France to the Kingdom of England