[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Boni Yayi

Thomas Boni Yayi, political allies who have become intimate enemies, met at the Marina Palace in Cotonou. During this tête-à-tête, Thomas Boni Yayi presented Patrice Talon with a series of proposals and requests, relating in particular to the release of “political detainees”.

Assassination attempts

On 15 March 2007, Yayi Boni survived an ambush on his convoy near the village of Ikemon while returning from an election campaign rally in the town Ouesse for the upcoming parliamentary elections. The attackers blocked the road with downed trees, and fired upon the vehicle that usually carries the President; however President Boni was traveling in a separate vehicle. Several of his entourage were wounded in the ensuing crossfire between the presidential guard and the would-be assassins. However this information remains unproven since all sources claiming the assassination attempt come from the president's camp. The verification of such information remains impossible to date.

On 23 October 2012, the BBC reported that the president's doctor, niece, and former commerce minister had been arrested in a plot to poison the president. Patrice Talon, a former ally of the president and businessman, had reportedly paid the niece to substitute the President's medicine with a "toxic substance" while he was on a state visit to Brussels.

Events of 2013 
In 2013, Benin authorities claimed to have foiled a coup. In February, Colonel Pamphile Zomahoun and  businessman Johannes Dagnon blocked Yayi while returning from a trip from an African Union meeting at Equatorial Guinea. They were detained immediately.

While some argue that Yayi's government was being targeted because of its fight against corruption, others argue that he used the criminal justice system to silence opposition and media.

Personal life

Originally from a Muslim family, Boni Yayi is now an Evangelical Protestant. He has five children, and his wife Chantal (née de Souza), a native of the coastal city of Ouidah, is the niece of President Paul-Émile de Souza and Archbishop Isidore de Souza, and the great granddaughter of Francisco Félix de Sousa, also known as Chacha de Souza, who was a Brazilian slave trader and the viceroy of Ouidah. Boni Yayi was introduced to his later wife by her older brother Marcel Alain de Souza. A descendant of the Yoruba princes of Sabe in his own right, both Boni Yayi and his wife were awarded chieftaincy titles by the Nigerian king of Ile-Ife, Olubuse II, in 2008.

References

External links
 Official site
BBC News: Benin's new president announced
President Bush Meets with President Yayi of Benin

|-

1951 births
Beninese bankers
Beninese evangelicals
Beninese former Muslims
Converts to Protestantism from Islam
Cheikh Anta Diop University alumni
Living people
Paris Dauphine University alumni
People from Borgou Department
Presidents of Benin
Shooting survivors
University of Orléans alumni
Yoruba bankers
Yoruba politicians
Yoruba royalty
21st-century Beninese politicians