[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 138]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

re--are you going to bear malice and ruin your own
life and Hubert's and the children's? Are you so unforgiving, so lacking
in generosity?"

"_You_ call it an error. _I_ call it a treachery," returned Hadria. "Why
should the results of that treachery be thrust on to _my_ shoulders to
bear? Why should _my_ generosity be summoned to your rescue? But I
suppose you calculated on that sub-consciously, at the time."

"_Hadria!_"

"This is a moment for plain speaking, if ever there was one. You must
have reckoned on an appeal to my generosity, and on the utter
helplessness of my position when once I was safely entrapped. It was
extremely clever and well thought out. Do you suppose that you would
have dared to act as you did, if there had been means of redress in my
hands, after marriage?"

"If I _did_ rely on your generosity, I admit my mistake," said Henriette
bitterly.

"And now when your deed brings its natural harvest of disaster, you and
Hubert come howling, like frightened children, to have the mischief set
straight again, the consequences of your treachery averted, by _me_, of
all people on this earth!"

"You are his wife, the mother of his children."

"In heaven's name, Henriette, why do you always run into my very jaws?"

"I don't know what you mean."

"Why do you catalogue my injuries when your point is to deny them?"

Henriette rose with a vivid flush.

"Hadria, Hubert is one of the best men in England. I----"

"When have I disputed that?"

Hadria advanced towards Miss Temperley, and stood looking her full in
the face.

"I believe that Hubert has acted conscientiously, according to his
standard. But I detest his standard. He did not think it wrong or
treacherous to behave as he did towards me. But it is _that very fact_
that I so bitterly resent. I could have forgiven him a sin against
myself alone, which he acknowledged to be a sin. But this is a sin
against my entire sex, which he does _not_ acknowledge to be a sin. It
is the insolence that is implied in supposing it allowable for a man to
trick a woman in that way, without the smallest damage to his
self-respect, that sticks so in my throat. What does it imply as regards
his attitude towards all women? Ah! it is _that_ which makes me feel so
rancorous. And I resent Hubert's calm assumption that he had a right to
judge what was best for me, and even to force me, by fraud, into
following his view, leaving me afterwards to adjust myself with
circumstance as best I might: to make my bitter choice between
unconditional surrender, and the infliction of pain and distress, on
him, on my parents, on everybody. Ah, you calculated cunningly,
Henriette! I _am_ a coward about giving pain, little as you may now be
disposed to credit it. You have tight hold of the end of my chain."

Hadria was pacing restlessly up and down the room. Little Martha ran out
with her doll, and offered it, as if with a view to chase away the
perturbed look from Hadria's face. The latter stooped mechanically and
took the doll, smiling her thanks, and stroking the child's fair curls
tenderly. Then she recommenced her walk up and down the room, carrying
the doll carefully on her arm.

"Take care of dolly," Martha recommended, and went back to her other
toys.

"Yes, Henriette, you and Hubert have made your calculations cleverly.
You have advocates only too eloquent in my woman's temperament. You have
succeeded only too well by your fraud, through which I now stand here,
with a life in fragments, bound, chafe as I may, to choose between
alternative disasters for myself and for all of us. Had you two only
acted straightly with me, and kindly allowed me to judge for myself,
instead of treacherously insisting on judging for me, this knot of your
tying which you naïvely bring me to unravel, would never have wrung the
life out of me as it is doing now--nor would it have caused you and
Hubert so much virtuous distress."

Hadria recommenced her restless pacing to and fro.

"But, Hadria, _do_ be calm, _do_ look at the matter from our point of
view. I have owned my indiscretion." (Hadria gave a little scornful
cry.) "Surely you are not going to throw over all allegiance to your
husband on _that_ account, even granting he was to blame." Hadria
stopped abruptly.

"I deny that I owe allegiance to a man who so treated me. I don't deny
that he had excuses. The common standards exonerate him; but, good
heavens, a sense of humour, if nothing else, ought to save him from
making this grotesque claim on his victim! To preach the duties of wife
and mother to _me!_" Hadria broke into a laugh. "It is inconceivably
comic."

Henriette shrugged her shoulders. "I fear my sense of humour is
defective. I can't see the justice of repudiating the duty of one's
position, since there the position _is_, an accomplished fact not to be
denied. Why not make the best of it?"

"Henriette, you are amazing! Supposing a wicked big