[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Syrian Americans

States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, and currently serves as a judge on the Iran–United States Claims Tribunal. The Barkett family originated in the village of Zaidal on the outskirts of Homs.
Rowan Blanchard (born October 14, 2001), actress. Blanchard is Syrian from her paternal grandfather's side.
Malek Jandali, composer and pianist.
Justin Amash, U.S. Representative (R-Michigan)
Hayvi Bouzo, journalist and television presenter.
Helen Corey, cookbook author who introduced American audiences to Syrian food beginning with her book, The Art of Syrian Cookery (1962).
Mitch Daniels, former Governor of the U.S. state of Indiana (2005–2013) and the current President of Purdue University.
Huda Akil, neuroscientist and medical researcher.
Helen Donath, opera singer.
Shadia Habbal, astronomer and physicist specialized in Space physics.
Hunein Maassab, professor of epidemiology and the inventor of the live attenuated influenza vaccine.
Wentworth Miller, actor on Prison Break.
Hala Gorani, news anchor and correspondent for CNN International.
Rahme Haider, toured the US from the 1910s to the 1930s as "Princess Rahme", speaking on Syria.
Teri Hatcher, actress known for her television roles as Susan Mayer on the ABC comedy-drama series Desperate Housewives, and Lois Lane on Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman. Hatcher is Syrian from her mother's side.
Dan Hedaya, prolific character actor notable for his many Italian American film roles.
Robert M. Isaac, former Republican Mayor of Colorado Springs, Colorado. Elected in 1979, he was the first elected Mayor of the history of Colorado Springs, serving through 1997.
Alan Jabbour, folklorist and musician.
Zuhdi Jasser (born 1967), physician, Muslim reformer, and founder of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy.
Alan Jouban, UFC fighter.
Mohja Kahf (born 1967), poet and author.
Dina Katabi (born 1971), Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at MIT and the director of the MIT Wireless Center.
Kurtis Mantronik, hip-hop, electro funk, and dance music artist, DJ, remixer, and producer. Mantronik was the leader of the old-school band Mantronix.
Jack Marshall, author and poet.
Charles Meide, underwater archaeologist and the Director of LAMP at the St. Augustine Lighthouse & Maritime Museum. His ancestors (Meide, originally Maida, and Barket, alternatively spelled Barkett) emigrated from the villages of Fairouzeh and Zaidal near Homs around the turn of the 20th century.
Dean Muhtadi (born July 17, 1986), professional wrestler signed with the WWE under the name "Mojo Rawley".
Brandon Saad (born October 27, 1992), professional ice hockey player for the Chicago Blackhawks. Saad was a finalist in the 2012–13 season for the Calder Memorial Trophy, along with winning the Stanley Cup in 2013, and 2015 with the Blackhawks.
Louay M. Safi (born September 15, 1955), scholar and Human Rights activist, and a vocal critic of the Far Right. Author of numerous books and articles, Safi is active in the debate on nuclear race, social and political development, and Islam-West issues. He is the chairman of the Syrian American Congress.
Jerry Seinfeld, comedian, actor, and writer, best known for playing a semi-fictional version of himself in the long-running sitcom Seinfeld, which he co-created and executively produced. His mother was of Syrian Jewish descent, his grandparents emigrating from Aleppo.
Yasser Seirawan, chess grandmaster and 4-time US-champion. Seirawan is the 69th best chess player in the world and the 2nd in the United States.
Mona Simpson, novelist and essayist; Simpson is also the biological sister of Steve Jobs.
Wafa Sultan (born 1958), secular activist and vocal critic of Islam. In 2006, Sultan was chosen by Time magazine to be on the Time 100 list of the 100 most influential people in 2006.
Vic Tayback, actor who won two Golden Globe Awards for his role in the television series Alice.
Lisa Brennan-Jobs, writer 
Fawwaz Ulaby, R. Jamieson and Betty Williams Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan, and the former vice president for research.
Diana al-Hadid (born 1981), contemporary Syrian sculptor from Aleppo based in the Brooklyn, New York.
Sam Yagan, American entrepreneur and business executive, co-founder of SparkNotes, eDonkey, OkCupid, and Techstars Chicago, also CEO of Match Group, including Tinder.
Souhel Najjar, neurologist and psychologist whose story with Susannah Cahalan turned into an American Drama Film. He studied medicine in the University of Damascus and in Albany Medical College
Amal Kassir, international award-winning spoken word poet.

See also
Syrian American Council
Syrian Jewish communities of the United States
Syria–United States relations
Syrian Americans in New York City
Syrian Jews

Notes

References

External links 
Syrian American Woman's Association (nonprofit NGO)
Syrian American Council

 
 
 
 
Syrian diaspora in North America
Arab American
Middle Eastern American