[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# David B. Hawk

David B. Hawk (born June 21, 1968) is a Tennessee politician. He was elected to the 103rd through the 113th General Assembly as the member of the Tennessee House of Representatives representing the 5th district, which is composed of Unicoi County and part of Greene County. He is a member of the Commerce Committee, the Conservation and Environment Committee, the Parks and Tourism Subcommittee, and the Small Business Subcommittee. David Hawk attended Tusculum College, graduated from East Tennessee State University with honors and a degree in Marketing, and worked as a haberdasher.

in 2020, Hawk made an unsuccessful bid for congress to represent the U.S. House to represent Tennessee's 1st Congressional District. He placed 7th with approximately five percent of the vote.

Politics

HB962 a.k.a. "Guns in Bars"
On May 7, 2009, Hawk voted to pass HB962, which would allow licensed gun owners to bring concealed weapons into bars, night clubs, and other establishments which serve alcohol. Hawk voted to allow the 222,000 permit holders  to bring firearms into bars, nightclubs, etc. provided that they don't drink.

Supporters of the bill cite the Second Amendment, and those who oppose it share a variety of concerns, ranging from public safety to increased operating costs. Walt Baker, the CEO of the Tennessee Hospitality Association, which oversees hotels, motels, and restaurants, states that this bill transfers the responsibility from the customer with the firearm to the owner of the establishment. He is also anticipating a hike in insurance costs and lawsuits.

Gov. Phil Bredesen vetoed the bill, stating that, although he supports the right to bear arms, he believes carrying "a concealed weapon into a crowded bar at midnight on a Saturday night defies common sense". Rep. Curry Todd, R-Collierville responded "I won't tell you what the governor can do with that piece of paper he just sent".

2023 expulsion votes
In 2023, the Tennessee House voted on motions to expel three Democratic representatives for violating decorum rules for using bull horns inside the chamber to advocate gun control laws. Hawk voted in favor of all three resolutions: HR63, to remove Justin J. Pearson; HR64, to remove Gloria Johnson; and HR65, to remove Justin Jones. Pearson and Jones, who are black, were expelled, while Johnson, who is white, was not. Two days later, all three were reinstated.

Domestic violence charges 
Hawk was accused in December 2012 of domestic violence related to an incident in which he allegedly hit his ex-wife. He spent the night in jail, was convicted of reckless endangerment, and sentenced to 150 hours of community service, and anger management classes. He also paid $1,500 in restitution.

References

External links
David Hawk's profile at the Tennessee General Assembly website
David Hawk's Ballotpedia

1968 births
Republican Party members of the Tennessee House of Representatives
East Tennessee State University alumni
Tusculum University alumni
Living people
21st-century American politicians
Tennessee politicians convicted of crimes