[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 70]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

the way home."

_Tommy._--But what if the weather should not clear up at all?

_Harry._--In that case we must either endeavour to find our way through
the snow, or stay here, where we are so conveniently sheltered.

_Tommy._--But oh! what a dreadful thing it is to be here all alone in
this dreary wood! And then I am so hungry and so cold; oh that we had
but a little fire to warm us!

_Harry._--I have heard that shipwrecked persons, when they have been
cast away upon a desert coast, have made a fire to warm themselves by
rubbing two pieces of wood together till they caught fire; or here is a
better thing; I have a large knife in my pocket, and if I could but find
a piece of flint, I could easily strike fire with the back of it.

Harry then searched about, and after some time found a couple of flints,
though not without much difficulty, as the ground was nearly hidden with
snow. He then took the flints, and striking one upon the other with all
his force, he shivered them into several pieces; out of those he chose
the thinnest and sharpest, and telling Tommy, with a smile, that he
believed that would do, he struck it several times against the back of
his knife, and thus produced several sparks of fire. "This," said Harry,
"will be sufficient to light a fire, if we can but find something of a
sufficiently combustible nature to kindle from these sparks." He then
collected the driest leaves he could find, with little decayed pieces of
wood, and piling them into a heap, endeavoured to kindle a blaze by the
sparks which he continually struck from his knife and the flint. But it
was in vain; the leaves were not of a sufficiently combustible nature,
and while he wearied himself in vain, they were not at all the more
advanced. Tommy, who beheld the ill success of his friend, began to be
more and more terrified, and in despair asked Harry again what they
should do. Harry answered, that as they had failed in their attempt to
warm themselves, the best thing they could do was to endeavour to find
their way home, more especially as the snow had now ceased, and the sky
was become much clearer. This Tommy consented to, and with infinite
difficulty they began their march; for, as the snow had completely
covered every tract, and the daylight began to fail, they wandered at
random through a vast and pathless wood. At every step which Tommy took
he sank almost to his knees in snow. The wind was bleak and cold, and it
was with much difficulty that Harry could prevail upon him to continue
his journey. At length, however, as they thus pursued their way with
infinite toil, they came to some lighted embers, which either some
labourers or some wandering passenger had lately quitted, and which were
yet unextinguished. "See," said Harry with joy, "see what a lucky
chance is this! here is a fire ready lighted for us, which needs only
the assistance of a little wood to make it burn." Harry again collected
all the dry pieces he could find, and piled them upon the embers, which
in a few minutes began to blaze, and diffused a cheerful warmth. Tommy
then began to warm and chafe his almost frozen limbs over the fire with
infinite delight. At length he could not help observing to Harry, that
he never could have believed that a few dried sticks could have been of
so much consequence to him. "Ah!" answered Harry, "Master Tommy, you
have been brought up in such a manner, that you never knew what it was
to want anything; but that is not the case with thousands and millions
of people. I have seen hundreds of poor children that have neither bread
to eat, fire to warm, nor clothes to cover them. Only think, then, what
a disagreeable situation they must be in; yet they are so accustomed to
hardship that they do not cry in a twelvemonth as much as you have done
within this quarter of an hour."

"Why," answered Tommy, a little disconcerted at the observation of his
crying, "it cannot be expected that gentlemen should be able to bear all
these inconveniences as well as the poor." "Why not," answered Harry,
"is not a gentleman as much a man as the poor can be? and if he is a
man, should he not accustom himself to support everything that his
fellow-creatures do?"

_Tommy._--That is very true; but he will have all the conveniences of
life provided for him; victuals to eat, a good warm bed, and a fire to
warm him.

_Harry._--But he is not sure of having all these things as long as he
lives. Besides, I have often observed the gentlemen and ladies in our
neighbourhood riding about in coaches, and covered from head to foot,
yet shaking with the least breath of air, as if they all had agues,
while the children of the poor run about barefooted upon the ice, and
divert themselves with making snow-balls.

_Tommy._--That is indeed true; for I have seen my mother's visitors
sitting over the largest fire that could be made, and complaining of
cold, while the labourers out of doors were st