[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

ton, a Confederate steamer DeSoto approached with a flag of truce with lieutenants George S. Martin and E. S. McDowell aboard with a message. After the meeting Phelps escorted the Confederate officers back to the island, returning April 8 to announce their unconditional surrender.

Foote stands down

As Admiral Foote's wounded foot became swollen his overall conditioned worsened, making it extremely difficult for him to make his way about the ship, Captain Phelps was assuming more and more of the everyday responsibilities of running the flotilla. Foote summoned three surgeons to examine his condition, where they found that bones were broken and recommended that he be permitted to return home on a leave of absence. Foote forwarded their recommendation to Secretary of the Navy, Gideon Welles with the request that temporary command be given to Captain Charles Davis, as Acting Flag Officer. Foote had considered giving the young Phelps the command, maintaining that "Although Lieutenant-Commanding Phelps, the flag captain, is qualified to command any squadron...", the Navy was bound by a system of seniority. Despite Phelps's proven ability he was deemed too young to assume command without inciting the resentment of other officers who had seniority, which, regardless, invoked the ire of Phelps. Knowing there were other officers on the list for promotion, many of whom had left the Navy five to ten years ago, but who would nonetheless be placed ahead of him on the promotion list, Phelps wrote to his influential friends in Washington requesting that a bill be enacted for purposes of allowing the most qualified officers to assume the various commands, regardless of any seniority. Since the growing Union Navy was in desperate need of experienced officers, Phelps's request, though compelling, was declined by the Senate fearing that it would counter efforts to invite former officers back into the Navy. Temporary command of the flotilla was eventually given to Davis on May 9.

Days passed, and on May 8, Admiral Foote, now unable to move about on his own, and who had confined himself to his sleeping quarters, finally stepped down from service. Before his departure all the crews from the squadron assembled for Foote's farewell. As he slowly emerged on deck he was greeted by cheers and hurrahs. In an emotional departure, Foote expressed his respect and gave praise to all who had served under him. At 3 P.M, the USS Desoto came alongside the Benton, and with the help of Phelps and another officer, Foote boarded the accompanying ship, and on May 9, departed. With Foote relieved of command, Admiral Davis became the new flag officer of  the Mississippi River Squadron. After Foote had left the squadron, Phelps kept him informed of the state of affairs with frequent reports.

Fort Pillow

Having tended to repairs and resupply, the Union fleet proceeded south to a position a few miles upriver from Fort Pillow, the last Confederate stronghold protecting Memphis fifty miles to the south. The fort was protected by high bluffs, miles of trenches and numerous batteries mounting heavy guns. On April 12, the CSS General Sterling Price, a Confederate ram and gunboat mounting two guns and part of the Confederate River Defense Fleet, arrived at the scene, pursuing a Union transport, but when it came close to other Union gunboats, the Confederate ram abruptly withdrew, not knowing Union fleet strength due to darkness. The next morning the Price joined forces with several other rams and forming a line, approached the Union fleet within a couple miles. The Benton, with Foote and Phelps aboard, opened fire, with Confederate gunboat CSS Maurepas  returning fire, with shots from both gunboats falling short of their targets.

The flotilla settled into its normal routine and while the days went by only routine bombardments at Fort Pillow were conducted. Running the Confederate batteries with their numerous heavy guns was ruled out. On April 28, a number of Confederate deserters made their way to the Union gunboats, all sharing the same news that an attack on Union gunboats was going to occur that evening as soon as a new Confederate gunboat arrived. Foote then ordered preparations for a night time engagement. When darkness fell, Phelps ordered the Benton to take up a position further downstream, hoping to surprise and intercept any approaching Confederate gunboats under cover of darkness, but no enemy gunboats came along.