[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Directory for Public Worship

e of the living, (13) thanksgiving after childbirth, (14) communion for the sick, (15) The Commination service at the beginning of Lent, (16) the observation of Lent, Rogation days and the Ember weeks. Several of these items (1-5,7,10) had use in other Reformed churches, but the major items did not.

Use by the Church of England
In some areas of England, notably in London and Lancashire, Presbyterian classes (presbyteries) were set up in 1646 and operated until the Restoration of Charles II in 1660. Although by no means universally adopted even within these areas, there is good evidence to show that many of these parishes both bought and used the Directory. It was probably also used in parishes with Congregationalist, or Independent, ministers. However, those parishes that did adopt the Directory were in the minority, and the Book of Common Prayer continued in use secretly across much of the country, particularly in relation to funerals. It is clear that the Directory was deeply unpopular with the majority of the population, and some of the best evidence for its use can be deduced from negative reactions to it, in particular the dramatically reduced baptism rate in those parishes where the Directory was adopted.

Use by the Church of Scotland
The General Assembly of the Church of Scotland adopted the Westminster Directory during that Assembly's 10 Session on 3 February 1645. In adopting the text of the Directory, however, the Assembly provided several clarifications and provisions and later, during Session 14 on February 7, 1645, it provided even further clarifications for application within the Church of Scotland. The adopting acts, therefore, attempted to keep intact those traditions and practices of the Scottish church where they differed from those of some English churches, whether Puritan or Independent, so long as these differences proved no offense to those English churches. Such differences in implementation included, for instance, the Scots coming forward to sit around the communion table, retaining the use of the epiklesis, the singing of a psalm while tables dismissed and came forward, the distribution of bread and wine by communicants among themselves, and "a sermon of Thanksgiving" after communion. The Westminster Directory did, however, have the effect of suppressing the Scottish "Reader's Service" and of eliminating the practice of ministers bowing in the pulpit to pray prior to the sermon.

Bibliography
W. A. Shaw, A History of the English Church during the Civil War and under the Commonwealth 1640–1660, 2 vols., (London, 1900)
F. Procter, A New History of the Book of Common Prayer, rev. W. H. Frere, (Macmillan: London, 1919)
Judith Maltby, Prayer Book and People in Elizabethan and Early Stuart England, (Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, 1998)
John Morrill, ‘The Church in England 1642–1649’, in Reactions to the English Civil War, ed. John Morrill, (Macmillan: Basingstoke, 1982), pp 89–114, reprinted in John Morrill, The Nature of the English Revolution, (Longman: London, 1993)
Christopher Durston, ‘Puritan Rule and the Failure of Cultural Revolution, 1645-1660’, in The Culture of English Puritanism, 1560–1700, ed. Christopher Durston and Jacqueline Eales, (Macmillan: Basingstoke, 1996), p 210–233
Minutes of the Manchester Presbyterian Classis, ed. W A Shaw, 3 vols., Chetham Society, new series, 20, 22 & 24 (1890–1891)

Note
 The full name of the book was A Directory for Public Worship of God throughout the Three Kingdoms of England, Scotland, and Ireland. Together with an Ordinance of Parliament for the taking away of the Book of Common Prayer, and the Establishing and Observing of this Present Directory throughout the Kingdom of England and the Dominion of Wales. The full name of the 1645 Scottish Act was CHARLES I. Parl. 3. Sess. An ACT of the PARLIAMENT of the KINGDOM of SCOTLAND, approving and establishing the DIRECTORY for Publick Worship. AT EDINBURGH, February 6, 1645

References

External links
 Acts and Ordinances of the Interregnum, 1642–1660: An Ordinance for taking away the Book of Common Prayer, and for establishing and putting in execution of the Directory for the publique worship of God. Text of the Directory appended to an ordinance of the Parliament of England, 4 January 1645.
 Directory text incorporated in ACT of the PARLIAMENT of the KINGDOM of SCOTLAND, approving and establishing the DIRECTORY for Publick Worship

1645 works
17th-century Christian texts
Calvinist texts
Christian prayer books
Congregationalism
English Reformation
History of the Church of England
Presbyterianism
Westminster Assembly
Westminster Standards
Church of Scotland