[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Harry F. Dahms

tegories that would have to be developed and deployed to maintain the possibility of meaning—socially, culturally, and politically.

Awards
 Senior-Level Excellence in Teaching Award, 2021, College of Arts & Sciences, University of Tennessee.
 Albert Salomon Dissertation Award, The New School, 1993.

Selected works
 "Social Theory's Burden: From Heteronomy to Vitacide (or, How Classical Critical Theory Predicted Proliferating Rackets, Authoritarian Personalities, and Administered Worlds in the Twenty-First Century)," in Society in Flux: Two Centuries of Social Theory (Current Perspectives in Social Theory, vol. 37; Bingley, UK: Emerald, 2022), ed. by Harry F. Dahms.
 “Critical Theory, Sociology, and Science-Fiction Films: Love, Radical Transformation and the Socio-Logic of Capital,” in Daniel Krier and Mark Worrell (eds.), Capital in the Mirror: Critical Social Theory and the Aesthetic Dimension (Albany, NY: SUNY Press; 2020): 231-301.
 “Adorno’s Critique of the New Right-Wing Extremism: How (Not) to Face the Past, Present, and Future,” disClosure: a journal of social theory, 29(1), 129-179.
 Ecologically Unequal Exchange Environmental Injustice in Comparative and Historical Perspective: Environmental Injustice in Comparative and Historical Perspective, co-edited with R. Scott Frey and Paul K. Gellert (Palgrave, 2019)
 The Vitality of Critical Theory. Emerald, 2011.
 Nature, Knowledge, and Negation (ed.). Current Perspectives in Social Theory, 26, Emerald, 2009.
 No Social Science Without Critical Theory (ed.). Current Perspectives in Social Theory, 25, Emerald, 2008.
 Globalization Between the Cold War and Neo-Imperialism (Special Volume Editor). Current Perspectives in Social Theory, 24, Elsevier/JAI, 2006.
Transformations of Capitalism: Economy, Society and the State in Modern Times (Editor). London: Palgrave, and New York: NYU Press, 2000.

Notes

External links
 Harry F. Dahms — Research and Teaching Lab, University of Tennessee.
 Center for the Study of Social Justice, University of Tennessee.
 ResearchGate Profile

The New School alumni
American sociologists
Living people
Universal basic income writers
Year of birth missing (living people)