[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Trey Grayson

Charles Merwin "Trey" Grayson III (born April 18, 1972) is an American politician and attorney who is a member at Frost Brown Todd and a principal at CivicPoint. A former Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Grayson was a candidate in the 2010 Republican primary to replace retiring U.S. Senator Jim Bunning, losing to Rand Paul, the Tea Party favorite. He later was the director of the Harvard Institute of Politics. Grayson also served as CEO of the Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce.

Early life, education, and law career
A product of the Kenton County public school system, Grayson was inducted into the Kentucky Association for Academic Competition Hall of Fame for his achievements in the Governor's Cup and other academic competitions at Dixie Heights High School. He was a 1989 Governor's Scholar and later served as President of the Program's Alumni Association.

Grayson graduated from Harvard University with honors in 1994 with an A.B. in government. He then returned to Kentucky, entering a JD/MBA dual-degree program at the University of Kentucky, where he was one of the first Kentucky MBA scholars and one of the first two Bert T. Combs Scholars, the College of Law's top scholarship.

After earning both degrees in 1998, he worked as an attorney with Greenebaum Doll & McDonald and later Keating, Muething & Klekamp, where he focused on estate planning and corporate law.

Republican activism
Although a member of the Democratic Party during his collegiate years, voting for Bill Clinton in the 1992 presidential election, Grayson became a member of the Republican Party shortly after graduating, citing his conservative beliefs.

In 2005, he was selected for the inaugural class of the Aspen-Rodel Fellowships in Public Leadership, which recognize the nation's top young elected officials. In 2004, The Council of State Governments selected him to participate in the Toll Fellowship Program, and he was recognized at the 2004 Republican National Convention by United Leaders as a "Rising Star" in the Republican Party.

In 2004, Grayson became a member of the Senior Advisory Committee to Harvard University's Institute of Politics, serving alongside U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao and U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy. Grayson has served on a variety of advisory boards of several national, election-related organizations and the steering committee for the Campaign for the Civic Mission of Schools.

Grayson's colleagues have asked him to serve in a variety of prominent national leadership positions, including chair of the Republican Association of Secretaries of State. A former NASS Treasurer, chair of the NASS Elections committee, co-chair of the NASS Presidential Primary subcommittee, vice-chair of the NASS committee on voter participation, and NASS representative on the Council of State Government Executive Committee, Grayson also serves on the NASS standing committee on business services and the NASS executive committee. Through these positions, he has become a national authority on presidential primary reform and election administration.

Kentucky Secretary of State
Grayson was elected Kentucky's Secretary of State in 2003. When he was sworn into office, he was the nation's youngest secretary of state, at 31. Grayson modernized the Office of the Secretary of State by bringing more services online, enhanced Kentucky's election laws through several legislative packages, and revived the civic mission of Kentucky schools by leading the effort to restore civics education.

During his first term, his office placed millions of images online and launched several new online services to eliminate bureaucratic impediments to starting a business or running for office. Grayson led a nationally recognized effort to increase the civic literacy of Kentucky's youth and helped change Kentucky's election laws, including a repeal of public financing of gubernatorial campaigns.

During his first term there was a controversy involving the State Board of Elections' purging of approximately 8,000 Kentucky voters from the Kentucky voter rolls because the voters had moved out of state. Grayson and the state board of elections were defendants in a lawsuit filed by then Kentucky Attorney General Greg Stumbo. A circuit judge ruled that the Board's actions were legal but asked Grayson to take additional steps to ensure voters would not be disenfranchised. Grayson later admitted to National Public Radio that the Office had made a technical mistake in purging some of the voters, but that the concept was important.

Grayson was reelected Secretary of State in 2007 by a 14-point margin. He became one of only two Republican statewide elected constitutional officers to win a second consecutive term in modern history