[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International Navigation Company

e department agreed to contract with INC for a weekly New York–Southampton mail service.  On February 22, 1893, President Benjamin Harrison personally raised the American flag on the newly renamed New York, and the Inman and International Line was officially merged into the American Line.

1893–1902

To strengthen the company's finances, International Navigation was reorganized in June 1893.  The original Pennsylvania chartered company was replaced by a new corporate entity, the International Navigation Corporation of New Jersey with capitalization of $15 million. In July, International Navigation Limited was formed in the UK to hold title to the remaining British flagged vessels.  The company was also refinanced with a $6 million bond issue to enable Griscom to order the two new 20 knot express liners required under the US mail contract and additional new vessels for Red Star.  About half of these bonds were purchased by representatives of Standard Oil.  When St Louis and St Paul were delivered, the American Line had the only weekly 20 knot service on the Atlantic.

The timing for the company's expansion could not have been worse.  The major shipping companies including the American Line entered into an agreement to control sailing frequency and prices.  However, the agreement broke down in the fall of 1893 over a dispute between the German and British lines over Scandinavian business, resulting in a fare war.  This situation was compounded by the depression of 1894 and several weaker firms including the Guion Line collapsed.

By 1896, economic conditions improved and the major lines reached a new agreement, negotiated at International Navigation's headquarters in London.  The Spanish–American War (1898) and the Boer War (1899-1902) created a shortage of shipping on the Atlantic, and the major lines launched building programs in increase their fleets.  Most of the American Line's ships were requisitioned by the government for war service.  Griscom also ordered new vessels and after the war refinanced the company.  In 1899, J.P. Morgan underwrote $20 million in 5% bonds.  $12 million was used to retire existing 6% bonds and $6 million was earmarked for expansion.  By 1902, International Navigation's fleet consisted of 26 ships totaling 181,000 tons and carried more passengers than either Cunard or White Star.

While International Navigation's Belgian and British subsidiaries were consistently profitable, the American Line only paid its first dividend in 1900.  The mail contract of $750,000 per year was not sufficient to offset the higher costs of operating US-flagged vessels.  Griscom was a close associate of Ohio Senator Marcus Hanna, who stayed at Griscom's house outside Philadelphia during the 1900 Republican convention.  Hanna was the power broker behind President William McKinley, and when the Republicans were reelected, Hanna pushed a new mail subsidy bill.  The legislation cleared the Senate in 1902, but stalled in the House of Representatives.  Congress was opposed to subsidizing rich financiers even though this meant that relatively fewer Americans were employed as merchant ship builders and sailors.

As early as the 1880s, Griscom believed that the major shipping lines should be combined into a trust to control capacity and pricing.  As a result of the 1899 refinancing, he became acquainted with J. P. Morgan, the investment banker who was successful in putting together large trusts.  Morgan was then in the process of building U.S. Steel, the first billion dollar corporation.  Morgan profited from the investment fees associated with creating or refinancing companies, but not actually operating the new enterprises.  The timing appeared right for a large shipping merger.  In 1902, another price war broke out when the Boer War ended and new vessels entered service.

Backed by financing from Morgan's syndicate, Morgan and Griscom acquired the Atlantic Transport Line, the Leyland Line, the White Star Line, the Dominion Line and half of Holland America.  When combined with International Navigation, the new company owned 118 ships totaling 810,000 tons.  This represented 20% of the total shipping on the Atlantic and a third of the passenger business.  They also entered into revenue sharing arrangements with Hamburg America and North German Lloyd.  On October 1, 1902, Morgan and Griscom announced that International Navigation was to be reorganized as the International Mercantile Marine Corporation of New Jersey and that the firm had an initial capitalization of $120 million plus the proceeds of a $50 million bond offering.  The old International Navigation was valued at $14.2 million including $2.5 million in cash and stock paid as commissions to Griscom and his close associates.

Postscript