[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 127]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ey are imbeciles, all!"

Hadria thought that perhaps _she_ was the "imbecile"; it was a
possibility to be counted with, but she dared not say so to the irate
Jouffroy.

He was particularly angry, because the audience had confirmed his own
fear that only very slowly would the quality of the music be recognized
by even the more cultivated public. It had invaded fresh territory, he
said, added to the range of expression, and was meanwhile a new language
to casual listeners. It was rebel music, offensive to the orthodox.
Hubert had always said that "it was out of the question," and he
appeared to have been right.

"_Bah, ce ne sont que des moutons!_" exclaimed Jouffroy. If the work had
been poorer, less original, there would not have been this trouble. Was
there not some other method by which Madame could earn what was
necessary, _en attendent_?

In one of Professor Fortescue's letters, he had reminded Hadria of his
eagerness to help her. Yet, what could he do? He had influence in the
world of science, but Hadria could not produce anything scientific! She
bethought her of trying to write light descriptive articles, of a kind
depending not so much on literary skill as on subject and epistolary
freshness of touch. These she sent to the Professor, not without
reluctance, knowing how overburdened he already was with work and with
applications for help and advice. He approved of her idea, and advised
the articles being sent the round of the magazines and papers.

Through his influence, one of the shorter articles was accepted, and
Hadria felt encouraged. Her day was now very full. The new art was
laborious, severely simple in character, though she studiously made her
articles. Her acquaintances had multiplied very rapidly of late, and
although this brought into her experience much that was pleasant and
interesting, the demands of an enlarging circle swallowed an
astonishing number of hours. An element of trouble had begun to come
into the life that had been so full of serenity, as well as of regular
and strenuous work. Hadria was already feeling the effects of anxiety
and hurry. She had not come with untried powers to the fray. The reserve
forces had long ago been sapped, in the early struggles, beginning in
her girlhood and continuing at increasing pressure ever since. There was
only enough nerve-force to enable one to live from hand to mouth.
Expenditure of this force having been so often in excess of income,
economy had become imperative. Yet, economy was difficult. M. Jouffroy
was always spurring her to work, to throw over everything for this
object; letters from England incessantly urged a very different course;
friends in Paris pressed her to visit them, to accompany them hither and
thither, to join musical parties, to compose little songs (some
bagatelle in celebration of a birthday or wedding), to drive to the
further end of the town to play to this person or that who had heard of
Madame's great talent. Hadria was glad to do anything she could to
express her gratitude for the kindness she had received on all hands,
but, alas! there were only a certain number of hours in the day, and
only a certain number of years in one's life, and art was long.
Moreover, nerves were awkward things to play with.

Insidiously, treacherously, difficulties crept up. Even here, where she
seemed so free, the peculiar claims that are made, by common consent, on
a woman's time and strength began to weave their tiny cords around her.
She took warning, and put an end to any voluntary increase of her
circle, but the step had been taken a little too late. The mischief was
done. To give pain or offence for the sake of an hour or two, more or
less, seemed cruel and selfish, yet Hadria often longed for the
privilege that every man enjoys, of quietly pursuing his work without
giving either.

A disastrous sense of hurry and fatigue began to oppress her. This was
becoming serious. She must make a stand. Yet her attempts at
explanation were generally taken as polite excuses for neglecting those
who had been kind and cordial.

Jouffroy taxed her with looking tired. One must not be tired. One must
arrange the time so as to secure ample rest and recreation after the
real work was over. Women were so foolish in that way. They did
everything feverishly. They imagined themselves to have inexhaustible
nerves.

Hadria hinted that it was perhaps others who demanded of them what was
possible only to inexhaustible nerves.

True; towards women, people behaved as idiots. How was it possible to
produce one's best, if repose were lacking? Serenity was necessary for
all production.

As well expect water perpetually agitated to freeze, as expect the
crystals of the mind to produce themselves under the influence of
incessant disturbance.

Work? Yes. Work never harmed any man or woman. It was harassment that
killed. Work of the mind, of the artistic powers, that was a tonic