[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Maging Sino Ka Man (2006 TV series)

onique, and eventually asks her to move back into the Madrigal mansion, much to Jackie's delight and Corazon's dismay. But their reconciliation is short-lived as Corazon sabotages their relationship with some well-placed photographs of Monique with another man. Fidel throws Monique out of the house.

Part 5: Payback Time
Eli and Jackie elope but Fidel and JB catch up and assault Eli before bringing Jackie back home. With Celine's help, Jackie finally escapes her father and fiancé. Fidel sends men to get information from Dadoods and Pong, who are beaten for staying silent.
Eli and Jackie are back in the barrio and wait for Oca as he promised to help them. Time passes by and Oca still has not shown up at the barrio to help them. Eli goes back to the city to find him. Pong decides to visit the barrio and wants to talk to Jackie. However, Jackie suspects that someone is following her at the river near the barrio. Jackie panics and rushes to get out of the river when she slips and falls unconscious, hitting her head. Pong rushes over to help her, but when Jackie regains consciousness, she finally remembers everything... and feels betrayed. She goes back to the house in the barrio and waits for Eli. She promises to keep Eli's secrets and protect Pong, but leaves him despite his pleas for her to stay. 
Jackie's driver finally awakens and tells Fidel that Jackie had been lost during a kidnapping attempt. Eli and JB get into a fight and Eli lands in jail. Pong turns to Celine for help, and she bails Eli out. Eli returns to the hospital to find that Dadoods has died of his injuries while he was in jail.
Imelda finds Jackie at Celine's home and calls Fidel.
Pong is arrested after one of the kidnapping accomplices turn him in. Eli is enraged and frustrated when he finds Pong badly beaten in jail. 
Eli pleads with Fidel for Pong's life but Fidel pushes him away and spits on him.
Mang Oca finally tells Eli about his lost past.
Finding Eli's jade pendant necklace in her backyard and realizing it was the one the Roxas Patriarch (Don Roxas, father of Dona Corazon and Mamu G) was wearing in the photo at the Roxas ancestral house, Celine went to Corazon. She finds a sense of triumph in seeing Corazon beg as to who is the owner of the necklace. The possibility that Corazon might be Eli's real mother, and that she (Corazon) is also cheap, a point Corazon never fails to emphasize to her (Celine) whenever they are together, was enough irony.
Corazon and Celine go to see Eli and tells him he might be a Roxas, but Eli laughs at her and reveals that he already knows before throwing them out of his home.
Corazon is in anguish as she remembers giving baby Eli to Fidel many years ago.

Part 6: The Lost Truth
Corazon takes a DNA test, and finds out that Eli is a Roxas. She then reveals to JB that Eli is his cousin. The scene changes: Eli walks into a room and bumps into Mamu G. Mamu G stares at Eli and sees the pendant. There is a long flashback, and Mamu G immediately recovers from extreme depression as her memory returns. She hugs Eli, overjoyed. 
Corazon then approaches Mamu G, who slaps her in the face. Corazon demands to know why, stating that she has taken care of Mamu G for a long time, and deserves thanks for her care and assistance. JB consoles Corazon, saying that Mamu G is still recovering, and that maybe they should have a check-up first to see if she has completely recovered.
Indeed, she has. Left without a doubt that Mamu G acted of her own accord, Corazon asks for her reasons. Mamu G angrily asks Corazon how she could kill, and is unwilling to listen when Corazon tries to explain, arguing that she only wanted the baby to be hidden away, not to be killed. Mamu G tells Corazon that the exact opposite was both what Eli had told her and what Fidel had ordered. 
Corazon visits Fidel, angry at his betrayal. She asks him how he could have done that when she had trusted him all those years. Now, because of him, even her relationship with her sister is destroyed. Fidel tells her it was Mamu G's fault, and that he was forced into it.
Eli is reunited with his mother, which only drives JB to jealousy. He insults Eli, saying money is all Eli wants from Mamu G. Angry at the jibe, Eli replies that JB does not know him well, and so has no right to tell him that. Eli joins the RSL with vengeance in mind, and asks for JB's position in the company. Corazon agrees, to her son's surprise, as she feels she has done a great sin to Mamu G and must somehow seek retribution.
Mamu G discovers what happens, and is the one to comfort JB. Later on, JB comes over to Mamu G's for dinner—with Jackie.  Faced with the uncomfortable prospect of eating at the same table with Eli, Jackie wants to leave straight away. JB, however, will not let her, and brags to Mamu G and Eli about their wedding over dinner, apparently to make Eli jealous.