[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Edward S. Bragg

agg, along with Major Rufus Dawes and Lt. Colonel Hugh Judson Kilpatrick, were adamant that the raid should proceed.  The mission was ultimately successful as two miles of Virginia Central Railroad track were destroyed and the Union raiders returned safely to Falmouth.

Second Bull Run (August 1862)

The Iron Brigade arrived at Cedar Mountain, Virginia, two days after the battle there.  They participated in burying the dead and engaged in skirmishing, directed by Colonel Bragg, associated with the First Battle of Rappahannock Station along the new defensive line at the Rappahannock River.

After Stonewall Jackson successfully maneuvered around the flank of the Union army, the order was given to fall back to Centreville, Virginia, in an attempt to surround Jackson's Corps.  On the evening of August 28, while marching northeast with three other brigades on the Warrenton Turnpike, the Iron Brigade encountered Jackson's Corps near Gainesville, Virginia.  General Irvin McDowell, who commanded their Division, was convinced that the Confederates represented an inconsequential force, and ordered the brigades to proceed on their march toward Centreville. 

When the Confederates opened up cannon fire, General John Gibbon ordered the Iron Brigade to engage the enemy and attempt to capture the artillery.  A severe battle ensued as the Iron Brigade faced a combined assault from five brigades of Stonewall Jackson's Corps.  During the battle, Colonel Cutler was severely wounded.  Lt. Colonel Bragg took command of the 6th Wisconsin and remained in command of the regiment for most of the next two years.  Bragg and the 6th Wisconsin held the right end of the line against the brigades of Isaac R. Trimble and Alexander Lawton.

The fighting at Gainesville is often referred to in historical documents as the "Battle of Gainesville" and represented the first day of fighting in the Second Battle of Bull Run.  Despite being outnumbered by more than 3-to-1, the brigade held their ground and the fighting ended indecisively around midnight.  This is where the nickname "Iron Brigade" was first applied to their unit.

Bragg and the Iron Brigade were resting and remained in reserve during the second day of battle, but rejoined the fighting on the third day, August 30, 1862, in support of Fitz John Porter's V Corps and their ill-fated frontal assault on Jackson's position.  As the attack faltered and the massive Confederate flanking attack began to materialize, Bragg held his regiment in line and deployed skirmishers to slow down the enemy attack.  As the Union army fell back, Bragg was ordered to organize the 6th Wisconsin to act as rearguard.  The 6th Wisconsin was the last to withdraw, marching on an orderly retreat for nearly a mile in full view of both opposing armies.

As the Union army retreated from the field on the night of August 30, General Philip Kearny ordered the Iron Brigade to act as rearguard for the Army.  Bragg and Lt. Colonel Lucius Fairchild—who commanded the consolidated 2nd and 7th Wisconsin—would manage the action, setting pickets and false campfires to deceive the enemy.

Maryland and Antietam (September 1862)
After the failure of Pope's campaign, General McClellan was put back in command of the Union army.  General Robert E. Lee seized the initiative and invaded Maryland.  The Iron Brigade, now designated the 4th Brigade, 1st Division, in Joseph Hooker's I Corps, joined the Union pursuit of Lee into Maryland and encountered his army at South Mountain, south of Hagerstown, Maryland.

At the Battle of South Mountain, on September 14, 1862, the Iron Brigade received special instructions to proceed up the National Road and engage Alfred H. Colquitt's brigade at Turner's Gap.  Colonel Bragg commanded the 6th Wisconsin protecting the right flank of the attack, maneuvering his regiment in good order over difficult terrain, then up the incline of the field to obtain a favorable field of fire over the enemy position.  From his vantage, General McClellan could see the fighting and later wrote to Wisconsin Governor Edward Salomon, "I beg to add my great admiration of the conduct of the three Wisconsin regiments in General Gibbon's brigade. I have seen them under fire acting in a manner that reflects the greatest possible credit and honor upon themselves and their state. They are equal to the best troops in any army in the world."

Lee evacuated South Mountain that evening, but McClellan caught up to him again at Antietam Creek, near Sharpsburg, Maryland, on September 16, 1862.  That night, the Iron Brigade, along with the rest of I Corps, crossed the Antietam Creek and took position on the far right of the Union line.