[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Takamagahara

In Japanese mythology, Takamagahara (高天原, "Plane of High Heaven" or "High Plane of Heaven", also read as Takaamanohara, Takamanohara, Takaamagahara, or Takaamahara), is the abode of the heavenly gods (amatsukami). Often depicted as located up in the sky, it is believed to be connected to the Earth by the bridge Ame-no-ukihashi (the "Floating Bridge of Heaven").

Overview 
In Shinto, ame (heaven) is a lofty, sacred world, the home of the Kotoamatsukami. Some scholars have attempted to explain the myth of descent of the gods from the Takamagahara as an allegory of the migration of peoples. However, it is likely to have referred from the beginning to a higher world in a religious sense. A Shinto myth explains that at the time of creation, light, pure elements branched off to become heaven (ame). Heavy, turbid elements branched off to become earth (tsuchi). Ame became the home of the amatsukami or gods of heaven, while tsuchi became the home of kunitsukami or gods of the land. The amatsukami are said to have descended from heaven to pacify and perfect this world.<ref>Basic Terms of Shinto, Kokugakuin University, Tokyo 1985 p.2.</ref>

 According to the Kojiki 
In the beginning of the Kojiki (Records of Ancient Matters), Takamagahara is mentioned as the birthplace of the gods. It is assumed that Takamagahara existed in clouds above sea because there is a scene in which Kuniumi (国生み), the god of islands, lowers his spear to form an island. Also, when the Goddess of the sun, Amaterasu (天照大御神) was born, she was commanded to rule Takamagahara by Izanagi (伊弉諾), the creator deity of creation and life. In the part related to Susanoo (スサノヲ, the brother of Amaterasu), Takamagahara is described as the place where many gods live with Ama-no-yasukawa (天の安河), Ama-no-iwato (天岩戸), paddy fields, and a place for weaving, giving an impression that life was close to the human world. It is stated that the Ashihara-no-Nakatsukuni (葦原の中つ国, the world between Heaven and Hell) was subjugated by the gods from Takamagahara, and the grandson of Amaterasu, Ninigi-no-Mikoto (瓊瓊杵尊), descended from Takamagahara to rule the area. From then on, the emperor, a descendant of Ninigi-no-Mikoto owned Ashihara-no-Nakatsukuni.

 According to the other chronicles 
In the Nihon Shoki (日本書紀, The Chronicles of Japan), there is almost no mention of Takamagahara in the text. It appears only in the fourth book of the first stage of Jindaiki (神代記) and part of the posthumous name which was given to Empress Jito in the fourth year of Yoro era (720).

In contrast, in the Fudoki (風土記, ancient reports on provincial culture and oral tradition) written in Nara period (710-794), the word Takamagahara appears only at the beginning of Hitachi-no-Kuni-Fudoki (常陸の国風土記).

Similarly, in the main text of Kogo Shui (古語拾遺), a historical record written in the early Heian period (794-1185), Takamagahara is mentioned only in the section of Ninigi-no-Mikoto.

In modern times, Takamagahara was described as the “supreme celestial sphere” (至美天球) in Tales of the Spirit World (霊界物語) by Onisaburo Deguchi. The “supreme celestial sphere” is illustrated as a spiritual world of pure light in the radiant universe.
 Theories about the location 
There have been many theories about the location of Takamagahara. Theories differ greatly depending on how the mythology in the Kojiki is interpreted.

 1. The Celestial Theory 
According to the Celestial Theory, the gods must be in the heavens or the universe above the heavens since high heavens are the dwelling place of the gods.  This conceptual view is represented by Norinaga Motoori’s theory; he believed it was disrespectful to gods and emperors to consider other theories. This idea was the mainstream view before World War II because of its strong connection with the emperor-centered historiography.

 2. The Terrestrial Theory 
The Terrestrial theory suggests that mythology always contains some historical fact, and thus Takamagahara must also reflect what existed. This theory was first represented by Hakuseki Arai, a confucianist during middle of the Edo period. Specifically, he stated that Takamagahara was located in Taga County, Hitachi Province (常陸国). Also, some people believe Takamagahara existed, but outside of Japan; one of the most popular such theories locates it at Gangwon, South Korea.  A chief proponent was the World War II war criminal, General Kanji Ishiwara.

 3. Kyushu-Yamatai-koku Theory 
The theory is that any of the candidate sites for the Yamatai-koku such as Yamamoto Country, Mii Country, Yamato Country, and Yasu Country in the Chikugo River basin. Some people specifically believe that Mii Country is the Takamagahara and Nakoku is the Ashihara-no-Nakatsukuni.