[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mind control in popular culture

t Door, a group of villainous kids called the Delightful Children from Down the Lane are revealed to be brainwashed Kids Next Door member of Sector Z, having been delightfulized by the villain Father. The effects of their brainwashing is permanent, but can be temporarily undone.  
 In the anime series HappinessCharge PreCure!, the antagonist Queen Mirage is a Cure who was brainwashed by the series' true main antagonist: Red. Mirage also brainwashes Cure Tender into becoming her servant: Dark Tender. Other characters brainwashed by Red are PhanPhan and Seiji. All four are eventually freed by the main characters. Red later tries to brainwash Cure Lovely, but was foiled at the last second.   
 In Winx Club, an antagonist called the Shadow Phoenix brainwashes the main character Bloom into her dark alter-ego: Dark Bloom.
 In the Marvel franchise, the Mind Stone, one of the six Infinity Stones, has the ability to brainwash people. 
 In Toy Story 3, Buzz Lightyear is brainwashed into becoming Lotso's henchmen after being switched to demo mode.
 In the anime Absolute Duo the character Miyabi Hotaka is brainwashed by the antagonist K.
 In the anime Mysterious Joker, the character Rose is brainwashed by the antagonist Professor Clover using a club-shaped headband.  
 In the anime Cross Ange, the antagonist Embryo has the ability to brainwash those who wield the Light of Mana. He once used this ability on the main character Ange.
 In Star Trek: Voyager the episode "Equinox", Seven's brain is operated on by the unethical doctor to reveal codes she refuses to give.
 In the 1987 animated Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles TV series season 3 episode "Corporate Raiders from Dimension X", Shredder kidnaps businessmen all across New York City and takes them to the Octopus Inc. headquarters, where he brainwashes them by indoctrination to carry out crimes, and kidnap more businessmen. In the 2012 version, Shredder has created worms that can mind control people by placing them inside victims.
 In Agents of Shield, the antagonist Lorelei has the ability to control men using her voice.
 In the first season of the Netflix original series Jessica Jones, main antagonist Kilgrave—known in comics as Purple Man—has the ability to compel people to obey his orders. He uses this power to force protagonist Jessica into an abusive relationship. Within the series' context, Kilgrave's mind control is an allegory for manipulative and abusive behavior. Jessica's enhanced strength and her resistance to Kilgrave's abilities, on the other hand, embody free will and women's empowerment.
 In the anime That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime, a fox spirit and the character Milim are brainwashed by the antagonist Clayman. The fox spirit was later freed by the protagonist Rimuru while Milim reveals that she was faking her brainwashing.
 Several Batman villains have the power of hypnosis; examples include the Mad Hatter, who relies on various technological devices to brainwash individuals, and Poison Ivy, who uses pheromones, plant-based creations, and occasionally supernatural means to take control of others, especially men.
 In The Unlisted, the "Global Child Initiative Programme", led by the Infinity Group with government support, secretly implants schoolchildren with mind control devices through a mandatory dental plan. As a result of the implant, the children develop enhanced physical and cognitive abilities, with the implant "updating" their brains with new knowledge and fluency in foreign languages such as Mandarin and Hindi. The end goal of Infinity Group is to expand the GCIP worldwide and make the mind control complete and permanent, to create and entire generation of obedient and compliant workers. Children who managed to avoid the implantation form a resistance group called the Unlisted, but are actively hunted by Infinity Group.
 In the 2021 film Girl Next, a woman is abducted, drugged, and taken to a secluded Texas ranch, where young women are tortured and brainwashed into becoming obedient, living sex dolls, that are then sold into the sex trade.
 In the 2022 TV series Severance, a medical procedure is applied to employees to separate non-work memories from work memories.