[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Government of Milwaukee

, comptroller and treasurer are all elected on a citywide basis.

Mayor 

The mayor of Milwaukee is Cavalier Johnson. He was elected to a full term in 2022 after the previous mayor, Tom Barrett, was appointed by President Biden to serve as the United States Ambassador to Luxembourg.

Common Council 

The Milwaukee Common Council is the lawmaking body of the City of Milwaukee. It comprises 15 members from 15 council districts throughout the city. As of 1960, membership on the Common Council was considered more desirable than membership in the Wisconsin State Assembly, and incumbent legislators would often seek a position on the council, resigning their legislative positions if they were victorious. The Common Council exercises all policy-making and legislative powers of the city, including the adoption of ordinances and resolutions, the approval of the city's annual budget, and the enactment of appropriation and tax levy ordinances. The council also has approval over the mayor's appointments of cabinet heads to direct day-to-day operations of city departments. In addition to their powers as legislators, council members serve as de facto district administrators, responsible to the citizens in their districts for city services. On April 19, 2022, 12th district councilmember José G. Pérez was elected council president to succeed Cavalier Johnson, who took office as mayor.

All members of the Common Council serve on a nonpartisan basis.

City Agencies 
The government of the City of Milwaukee is divided into six primary categories. They are Elected Officials and Administration; Health, Safety and Services; Arts and Architecture; Business and Development; Judicial and Oversight; and Jobs and Employees.

Boards and commissions 

The City of Milwaukee Youth Council, the city's youth commission, represents the student voice to the Common Council and Mayor.

State and federal representation

The City of Milwaukee has three full state Senate districts within city boundaries, as well as four other districts that share a significant portion of their boundaries with Milwaukee's suburbs. In Wisconsin, each Senate district is composed of three state Assembly districts. Given Milwaukee's status as a Democratic Party stronghold, all but three Senate and three Assembly districts in the city are represented by Democrats, with all six Republican seats falling in three small overlapping areas on the periphery of the city.

For the better part of the past century Milwaukee was represented by multiple congressional districts. With the city's slowly shrinking population since 1970 and Wisconsin's slower population growth rate that cost the state a congressional seat in 2002, Milwaukee has been represented by only one congressional district since that time. Milwaukee makes up the overwhelming majority of Wisconsin's 4th congressional district. Because of the district's record as a Democratic Party stronghold, the Democratic primary for the seat is often considered more important than the general election. The seat is currently held by Gwen Moore, Wisconsin's first African-American U.S. Representative.

References

External links
 City of Milwaukee
 Milwaukee County
 Milwaukee.gov Portal