[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Virginia in the American Civil War

ate secession were clearly outnumbered. Simultaneous to the February 4 election delegates from the first six states to secede (South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, and Louisiana) met in Montgomery and four days later founded the Confederate States of America.

Secession convention

The Virginia Secession Convention of 1861 met on February 13 at the Richmond Mechanics Institute, located at Ninth and Main Street in Richmond. One of the convention's first actions was to create a 21-member Federal Relations Committee, charged with reaching a compromise to the sectional differences as they affected Virginia. The committee was made up of 4 secessionists, 10 moderates, and 7 unionists.  At first there was no urgency to the convention's deliberations, as all sides felt that time only aided their cause. In addition, there were hopes that the Peace Conference on January 19, led by former President John Tyler, might resolve the crisis by guaranteeing the permanence of slavery and the right to expand it into the new southwest territories. With the failure of the Peace Conference at the end of February, moderates in the convention began to waver in their support for unionism.

At the Richmond Convention in February 1861, Georgian Henry Lewis Benning, who would later be a Confederate army officer, delivered a speech in which he gave his reasoning for the urging of secession from the Union, appealing to ethnic prejudices and pro-slavery sentiments to present his case, saying that were the slave states to remain in the Union, their slaves would ultimately end up being freed by the anti-slavery Republican Party. He stated that he would rather be stricken with illness and starvation than to see black slaves liberated and given equality as citizens:

Unionist support was further eroded for many Virginians by Lincoln's first inaugural address, which they felt was "argumentative, if not defiant." Throughout the state there was evidence that support for secession was growing. The Federal Relations Committee made its report to the convention on March 9. The fourteen proposals defended both slavery and states' rights while calling for a meeting of the eight slave states still in the Union to present a united front for compromise. From March 15 through April 14 the convention debated these proposals one by one. During the debates, the sixth resolution calling for a peaceful solution and maintenance of the Union came up for discussion on April 4. Lewis Edwin Harvie of Amelia County offered a substitute resolution calling for immediate secession. This was voted down by 88 to 45 and the next day the convention continued its debate. Approval of the last proposal came on April 12. The goal of the unionist faction after this approval was to adjourn the convention until October, allowing time for both the convention of the slave states and Virginia's congressional elections in May which, they hoped, would produce a stronger mandate for compromise.

One delegate reiterated the state's cause of secession and the purpose of the convention:

Mississippian Fulton Anderson told the convention that the Republicans were hostile to the slave states, accusing the Republican Party of having an "unrelenting and eternal hostility to the institution of slavery." Ultimately, the convention declared that slavery should continue, and that it should be extended into U.S. territories:

Battle of Fort Sumter 
The Battle of Fort Sumter was the turning point of secessionist sentiment in Virginia. Unionists were concerned about the continued presence of U.S. forces at Fort Sumter, despite assurances communicated informally to them by U.S. Secretary of State William Seward that it would be abandoned. Seward however was acting without Lincoln's approval, and Lincoln had no such intention to abandon the Fort. Lincoln and Seward were also concerned that the Virginia convention was still in session as of the first of April while secession sentiment was growing. At Lincoln's invitation, unionist John B. Baldwin of Augusta County met with the president on April 4. Baldwin explained that the unionists needed the evacuation of Fort Sumter, a national convention to debate the sectional differences, and a commitment by Lincoln to support constitutional protections for southern rights. Over Lincoln's skepticism, Baldwin argued that Virginia would be out of the Union within forty-eight hours if either side fired a shot in the vicinity of the fort. By some accounts, Lincoln offered to evacuate Fort Sumter if the Virginia convention would adjourn.