[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Reliable Replacement Warhead

ject; phase 3 = development engineering (at beginning of this phase warhead is assigned a #); phase 4 = production engineering; phase 5 = first production; phase 6 = quantity production and stockpiling. Note: Projects entering phase 1 (concept study) and phase 7 (=retirement) have not been included.

The FY08 RRW budget therefore indicates that one of the RRW designs has been approved and is entering the design definition and cost study phase.  The document does not state which of the RRW designs has been selected.

Historically, the weapon's nuclear series identification is assigned at the entrance to phase 3, and if the design proceeds forwards to complete phase 2 and enter phase 3 this can be expected in 1–2 years.

The design is intended for first production unit (FPU) delivery by the end of 2012.

On March 2, 2007, the NNSA announced that the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory RRW design had been selected for the initial RRW production version.

2008

The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, H.R. 4986, Section 3111, forbids the expenditure of funds for the RRW program beyond Phase 2A; in effect, this prevents the RRW program from going forward without explicit Congressional authorization. Section 3121 Subsection 1 requires the study of the reuse of previously manufactured plutonium cores in any RRW warheads, so as to avoid the manufacture of additional plutonium cores. Section 3124 reaffirms the commitment of the U.S. to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and encourages the mutual reduction in armament of the U.S. and Russia through negotiation.

2009

President Obama's 2009 Department of Energy budget calls for development work on the Reliable Replacement Warhead project to cease.

Criticisms of the program
Opponents of the RRW program believe it has nothing to do with making US weapons safer or more reliable, but is merely an excuse for designing new weapons and maintaining jobs at the weapons laboratories. They note that the Secretaries of Defense and Energy have certified that the existing nuclear weapons stockpile is safe and reliable in each of the last nine years.  The existing stockpile was extensively tested before the US entered the moratorium on nuclear weapons tests.  According to Sidney Drell and Ambassador James Goodby, "It takes an extraordinary flight of imagination to postulate a modern new arsenal composed of such untested designs that would be more reliable, safe and effective than the current U.S. arsenal based on more than 1,000 tests since 1945".

Critics maintain that this innocuous-sounding program could significantly damage US national security. Critics believe an expansive RRW program would anger US allies as well as hostile nations. They worry it would disrupt the global cooperation in nonproliferation that is vital to diplomacy with emerging nuclear powers such as Iran and North Korea and to controlling clandestine trafficking in nuclear materials and equipment.

See also
 Fogbank
 Nuclear weapon design
 List of nuclear weapons
 Renovation of the nuclear weapon arsenal of the United States

References

External links
Pit Lifetime
United States Nuclear Weapons Program: The Role of the Reliable Replacement Warhead
 Reliable Replacement Warhead page at globalsecurity.org
 DOE argument for the RRW
"Concerns about the Reliable Replacement Warheads Program" by Council for a Livable World
 "Nuclear Weapons:  The Reliable Replacement Warhead" Congressional Research Service, updated March 9, 2006
 "Nuclear Weapons:  The Reliable Replacement Warhead" Congressional Research Service, updated February 8, 2007, via Federation of American Scientists
 "Nuclear weapons: The next nuke" By Geoff Brumfiel, Nature, July 6, 2006 (subscription required)

Nuclear bombs of the United States
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
Nuclear warheads of the United States