[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# David Boren

n a private jet and hotel events afterward. During the investigation, OU graduate and former Boren classroom aide Jess Eddy made his allegation of Boren's sexual misconduct public through media interviews.  Boren has issued a blanket denial of any misconduct or illegal activity through his attorney.

Boren's attorney has stated that the investigation is "not an objective search for truth," and an attempted character assassination on Boren without basis in fact, adding that "Boren was unaware of any allegations until he heard about it in the press." Boren's attorney also stated that current OU President James L. Gallogly told a Vice President of the University of Oklahoma to deliver the message to Boren that "I am the meanest son of a bitch he has ever seen, and if he ever crosses me again, I will destroy him," after Boren wrote an op-ed defending the state of OU's finances in response to Gallogly's assertion that they were in disorder following Boren's tenure as president.

The University of Oklahoma regents received the results of the investigation in April 2019, and although they did not release any of the findings, the chairwoman described the probe as "fair, non-biased, thorough and objective." Boren accuser Jess Eddy has admitted to "calling Boren personally and asking for financial compensation after The Oklahoman first reported Boren was being investigated." Eddy responded to the non-disclosure of the findings by calling for the report by Jones Day to be released.

Personal life
He has been married twice. His first marriage to Janna Little, daughter of Reuel Little, occurred shortly after his graduation in 1968.  They had two children, and divorced in 1976. He married Pontotoc County Special District Judge Molly W. Shi on November 27, 1977. It was the first time an Oklahoma Governor had married while in office. Shi was a native of Ada, Oklahoma and alumna of East Central University and the University of Oklahoma, where she earned her degree in law. She was a lawyer in private practice for two years before being appointed as a judge. His daughter, Carrie, is a former actress and current director for evangelism in the Episcopal Diocese of Dallas.

The Boren family has a strong interest in public policy and three generations of public service. His father, Lyle Boren, served in the U.S. House of Representatives (OK-04) from 1937 to 1947. His son, Dan Boren, served in the U.S. House of Representatives (OK-02) from 2005 to 2013.

Boren is the first cousin of singer, songwriter, and actor Hoyt Axton, best known for writing the song "Joy to the World."

See also
Boren–McCurdy proposals

Notes

References

External links

 Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History and Culture - Boren, David
Voices of Oklahoma interview with David L. Boren. First person interview conducted on March 24, 2016, with David L. Boren.

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1941 births
20th-century Members of the Oklahoma House of Representatives
American Airlines people
American Rhodes Scholars
American United Methodists
Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School alumni
Boren family
Democratic Party governors of Oklahoma
Democratic Party members of the Oklahoma House of Representatives
Democratic Party United States senators from Oklahoma
Living people
National Guard (United States) officers
Oklahoma Baptist University faculty
Oklahoma lawyers
People from Washington, D.C.
Presidents of the University of Oklahoma
University of Oklahoma College of Law alumni
Writers from Oklahoma
Writers from Washington, D.C.
Yale College alumni
Members of Skull and Bones