[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Federation of Music Clubs

The National Federation of Music Clubs (NFMC) is an American non-profit philanthropic music organization that promotes American music, performers, and composers.  NFMC endeavors to strengthen quality music education by supporting "high standards of musical creativity and performance." NFMC headquarters are located in Greenwood, Indiana.

History 
The National Federation of Music Clubs was founded in 1898 and became an NGO member of the United Nations in 1949. It was chartered by the U.S. Congress in 1982.

Early timeline 
 
 1897: A temporary organizational committee was formed.
 
 1899: The First biennial Convention was held in St. Louis, May 3–6, 1899. Alice Uhl was re-elected president.
 1901: Biennial Convention was held in Cleveland, April 30 to May 3, 1901; international music relations was stressed. First recorded Junior Club, sponsored by the Beethoven Club of Memphis, Tennessee.
 1903: Biennial Convention was held in Rochester, New York.
 1915: Beginning of Youth Artist Auditions, which became integral to the NFMC.
 1916: The first state federation organization, affiliated with NFMC, was formed in Wisconsin.  That same year, Michigan formed one.

Mission and services 
NFMC provides opportunities for musical study, performance and appreciation to more than 120,000 senior, student and junior members in 6,500 music-related clubs and organizations nationwide. Members are professional and amateur musicians, vocalists, composers, dancers, performing artists, arts and music educators, music students, generous music patrons and benefactors, and music lovers of all ages.

Dedicated to finding and fostering young musical talent, the NFMC conducts annual Junior Festivals with more than 117,000 participants. NFMC offers more than three quarters of a million dollars in state and national competitions (see competitions), including four $20,000 biennial Young Artist awards, and the $20,000 Ellis Award for Duo-Pianists. The Young Artist and Ellis Duo Piano awards include two years of performance bookings.

Federation members work to create a dynamic musical and cultural environment in their communities through education and sponsorship of musical events. The Federation champions American music with awards and commissions. Federated States proclaim November American Music Month, in which the annual Parade of American Music focuses on programs of music by American composers. Awards are given annually to recognize educational institutions for their promotion and presentation of American music.

Other areas of Federation interest include:

 Sponsoring of National Music Week, the first week of May each year
 Support for legislation on bills affecting the welfare of musicians, music education and development of American musical life
 Sponsors musical therapy programs in hospitals, nursing homes and prisons
 Provides opportunities for study and performance to musicians with disabilities and visual impairments
 Works with affiliated music and arts departments in hundreds of universities and colleges
 Promotes community awareness, support and involvement in the performing arts including opera, dance and poetry
 Campaigns for higher standards in church, radio and television music
 Encourages songs of our heritage through a Together We Sing program
 Aids and encourages music education in schools, public and private
 Recognizes and promotes outstanding American music and composers annually through programs such as American Music Month (November), Parade of American Music, Celebrate Strings (Previously named "Crusade for Strings"), Music Outreach, and the Emil and Ruth Beyer Composition Awards.  With annual prize money totaling $11,000, the Beyer Awards are among the most significant awards given to young composers in the United States.  Past winners include Eric Lindsay, Charlie Peck, Carl Schimmel, and Mischa Zupko.

Leadership