[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument (Cleveland)

Legislature to the Monument Commission was in keeping with the original land grant which stipulated that Public Square be preserved for “public use.” With this decision, the legal options to prevent the construction of the monument on the Southeast quadrant of Public Square had been fully exhausted.

On December 2, 1892, Scofield supervised the removal of the Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry statue and turned it over to city officials whereupon it was relocated to Wade Park. While the city had estimated the moving cost at $300–$500 and pled a lack of funds, the Commission paid only $89.00 for its removal. Likewise, the city had projected the cost of relocating the water pipe at between $2,000–$5,000 and the time to complete the work at five weeks. In the spring of 1893, a new city administration headed by Robert Blee, who supported the construction of the monument, finished the job in four days for a cost of $1,248.68. The Commissioners boasted that it cost far less and happened far quicker than the city had been claiming. Work on the construction of the monument began in earnest in the Spring of 1893 and continued throughout the entire year. By the time the monument was completed, over $272,800 had been spent on its construction which equates to over $7,000,000 today, adjusted for inflation.

Dedication (1894) 
On July 4, 1894, the Cuyahoga County Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Monument was dedicated on the Southeast quadrant of Public Square. The event was attended by a star-studded list of prominent persons and was begun with a one-hundred gun salute. Former Ohio governor Joseph Foraker spoke at the event. As did Civil War veteran, current Ohio governor, and future president William McKinley. Despite rain throughout the day, thousands of Army and Navy veterans, representatives from the Grand Army of the Republic, City and fraternal organizations, dignitaries, clergymen, school choirs, and bandsmen assembled for a patriotic extravaganza.

1896–1970 
In the succeeding decades, the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Monument was host to numerous high-profile events. It was a focal point during the 1896 celebration of the centennial anniversary of the founding of Cleveland. A large temporary arch was constructed partially on the Southeast quadrant for the event.

In September 1901, 36 years after the conclusion of the Civil War, Cleveland hosted the 35th National Encampment of the Grand Army of the Republic. This was the second time Cleveland hosted the National Encampment, the first being the 6th National Encampment which occurred between May 8 and 9, 1872. The 1901 event saw over 293,000 people travel to Cleveland. President William McKinley –  who spoke at the dedication of the monument –  was slated to speak at the event upon his return from the Pan-American Exposition occurring in Buffalo, New York. The lavish event was stymied when news of the president's assassination and subsequent death a few days later sent the nation into shock. The monument as well as much of downtown Cleveland was adorned with dark cloth and solemn expressions of mourning.

With the turn of the century, the monument remained extremely popular with veterans and many Cuyahoga County residents.  However, its location on Public Square and the uniqueness of its architecture again became the subject of criticism. In 1930, a plan to beautify Erie Street Cemetery recommended moving the monument to the cemetery and subjecting it to an extensive restoration. Although this plan was not undertaken, the structure received its first cleaning in 1932. In 1943, a proposal to construct an extensive subway system with a large central station beneath Public Square threatened the monument's position on Public Square. However, this plan was not pursued. A formal cleaning was again undertaken in 1946.From August 10–14, 1947, Cleveland hosted the 81st National Encampment of the Grand Army of the Republic. However, this event was considerably smaller than the event in 1901 as the Grand Army of the Republic only had 66 remaining members, most of whom were well into their ninth decade of life.

In 1959, a downtown master plan revived the idea of constructing a subway station beneath the square. This would have required the monument to be relocated to the Northwest quadrant. During this period, a solution of acid was used to clean the walls of the monument, inadvertently stripping the original colors that had been painted on the stone, leaving the interior seriously altered. It would remain this way for over half a century.

The political turmoil of the 1960s and 1970s brought forth a spate of  stylistic and ideological opposition to the monument. Plans to modernize Public Square were proposed throughout this period, most including the removal of the monument. The monument was the scene of protests and demonstrations during the Vietnam War.

Restoration and centennial (1980–2000)