[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Truth and Bright Water

joke and emblematic of Elvin's inability to finish what he sets out to do. It comes as a complete surprise to everyone, including the narrator, when he drives to the Indian Days festival in the Volkswagen Karmann Ghia, the car he had been promising to fix for Tecumseh's mother throughout the novel.

Lum is perhaps the most tragic character in the novel. His abusive father Franklin (Elvin's brother) told him his mother was dead, but Lum does not believe him and hopes she will come back. There is a moving scene in which he talks to the child's skull they found in the river imagining "he" is crying for his lost mother: "'Stupid baby' [...] 'She's not coming back!' [...] 'She's never coming back!" (177). Franklin injures Lum so severely one day that he is unable to participate in the race that he had been training so hard for. He is aggressive and unpredictable in his interactions with his younger cousin and gruff with Soldier, but the dog is undeterred and absolutely loyal to him. When Lum finally runs off the unfinished bridge into a certain death in the river, Soldier follows him blindly, after the two boys have performed Monroe's funeral rites for "their" skull and throw it in the river.

Many of the storylines remain open. There is no conclusive answer, for example, to Tecumseh's question "Who's Mia?" (55) even though Mia seems to be the key to Cassie's guilt and the reason why she came back. There is a track of clues that runs through the novel and ends at the point when Cassie burns the baby clothes from a suitcase Tecumseh's mother has given her. One of these clues is Cassie's tattoo which spells AIM (American Indian Movement), but in the mirror reads "Mia." Another clue is the strange fact that Cassie sends presents to Tecumseh, at a time that has nothing to do with his birthday, and which to him are "girls" toys, e.g. a doll and a pink box with a mirror (117). Another unsolved riddle is the identity of the woman Tecumseh and Lum observe in intimate interactions with Monroe in the church one day (both Cassie and Tecumseh's Mother had had a relationship with him in the past). In addition, Tecumseh once walks in on his mother and Cassie having a conversation whilst going through old baby clothes. Helen indicates that she had an affair fifteen years ago, at the time that Tecumseh would have been conceived (122). Also, Helen asks Cassie if she's going to "give it up?" (122), to which Cassie responds "Why not... Gave it up the first time" (122). Given the context, this conversation indicates that Cassie has returned because she is pregnant. Additionally, she had been pregnant before, and this child was given up. The name Mia is also related to her former pregnancy. Also, the novel ends with Tecumseh's mother carefully trimming a bouquet of purple freesias "until there is nothing left but the stems" (266), but the narrator never learns who gave them to her.

Characters in Truth and Bright Water
Tecumseh, 15 years old; protagonist and first person narrator.

Lum, Tecumseh's cousin.

Helen, Tecumseh's mother; beautician with dreams of moving to a big city to become an actress; plays the role of the Queen in the political satire Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs put on by a community theater group.

Elvin, Tecumseh's father, carpenter.

Auntie Cassie, sister of Tecumseh's mother.

Tecumseh's grandmother, a wise old woman.

Monroe Swimmer, Indian artist who has made money and came back to the reservation to "save himself". He felt that he has not yet accomplished anything, but really he is the richest man in Truth & Bright Water

Franklin, Lum's abusive father and Elvin's brother, a tribal leader.

Rebecca Neugin, an 8-year-old Cherokee girl from Georgia on her way to Oklahoma with her family; she's a ghost from the past, a historical character who died on the Cherokee Trail of Tears in the nineteenth century.

Mia, another ghostly character, whose identity is never clearly revealed; Tecumseh's mother, grandmother and aunt Cassie know who she is, but the narrator never finds out; there are strong indications (e.g. Cassie's tattoo AIM - MIA), that she is Cassie's lost or abandoned daughter.

Soldier, Tecumseh's curious dog, who although is a silent character in the novel he plays a large role in plot development.

Major themes

Cousins in literature
Coming of age
Dogs in literature
U.S. - Canadian relations
Crossing boundaries
 Appearance vs reality
 Disappearing and reappearing
 Repatriation of Indian culture
Loss
Separation
Family
Associational Literature

Literary significance & criticism

Stephanie Zacharek in her review of Truth and Bright Water the New York Times comments on the way in which the novel deals with Native - non-Native relations saying that “racial identity issues that seem to be bubbling just below the surface.“ To Zacharek, Soldier ”emerges as the most memorable character in the book“ and regards the density of the book's symbolism "almost stifling."

Footnotes

References