[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dongshan Island Campaign

nloading in the largest port on the island, which was within range of the PLA heavy mortar positions.  The slow landing ships loaded with heavy weaponry became sitting ducks as they were being unloaded, and in addition to three being sunk, the pier was also badly damaged by the accurate mortar fire.

Another serious blunder committed by the attacking Nationalist force was the failure to cut the communications link between the defenders and the mainland.  Despite the fact that every single telephone line pole was cut down, nobody bothered to cut the actual line, or to wiretap the enemy's telephone line.  As a result, the defenders were able to maintain communications with the mainland and the Communist commanders were much more aware of the situation than their Nationalist counterparts.

The attacking Nationalist forces underestimated the speed and size of the Communist response.  Although the Nationalist order of battle included three divisions, none of them were full strength, and the elite paratrooper division comprised two brigades totaling only 2,000 men, which was the usual strength of a single brigade.  Furthermore, due to the sinking of three landing ships at the port and the destruction of the port by enemy heavy mortar fire, most landing forces became light infantry without firepower superior to that of their opponents.  This problem was further compounded by the incorrect use of the paratroopers by ordering them to attack the strongly fortified Communist positions at Eight Feet Gate Pier, resulting in more than 500 paratroopers killed, a staggering 25% of the total paratroop force devoted to the campaign.  After losing their superiority in firepower with the destruction of their heavy weapons at the port, the Nationalists lost their superiority in numbers as the Communists reinforced their garrison from the mainland.

In addition to underestimating how quickly the Communists would send reinforcements, the Nationalists also underestimated how quickly the Communists would repair the damage caused by airstrikes to the vital Nine Dragons Bridge. Nationalist intelligence estimated it would take at least two days, but in reality, the Communists had the bridge repaired in only two hours. As the news reached the surprised Nationalists, it was obvious that the mission was over and the Nationalists chose to withdraw from the island.

See also
List of Battles of Chinese Civil War
Project National Glory
National Revolutionary Army
History of the People's Liberation Army
Chinese Civil War

References
Zhu, Zongzhen and Wang, Chaoguang, Liberation War History, 1st Edition, Social Scientific Literary Publishing House in Beijing, 2000,  (set)
Zhang, Ping, History of the Liberation War, 1st Edition, Chinese Youth Publishing House in Beijing, 1987,  (pbk.)
Jie, Lifu, Records of the Liberation War: The Decisive Battle of Two Kinds of Fates, 1st Edition, Hebei People's Publishing House in Shijiazhuang, 1990,  (set)
Literary and Historical Research Committee of the Anhui Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Liberation War, 1st Edition, Anhui People's Publishing House in Hefei, 1987, 
Li, Zuomin, Heroic Division and Iron Horse: Records of the Liberation War, 1st Edition, Chinese Communist Party History Publishing House in Beijing, 2004, 
Wang, Xingsheng, and Zhang, Jingshan, Chinese Liberation War, 1st Edition, People's Liberation Army Literature and Art Publishing House in Beijing, 2001,  (set)
Huang, Youlan, History of the Chinese People's Liberation War, 1st Edition, Archives Publishing House in Beijing, 1992, 
Liu Wusheng, From Yan'an to Beijing: A Collection of Military Records and Research Publications of Important Campaigns in the Liberation War, 1st Edition, Central Literary Publishing House in Beijing, 1993, 
Tang, Yilu and Bi, Jianzhong, History of Chinese People's Liberation Army in Chinese Liberation War, 1st Edition, Military Scientific Publishing House in Beijing, 1993 – 1997,  (Volume 1), 7800219615 (Volume 2), 7800219631 (Volume 3), 7801370937 (Volume 4), and 7801370953 (Volume 5)

Conflicts in 1953
Campaigns of the Chinese Civil War
1953 in China
Military history of Fujian
Military history of Taiwan