[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Porcher DuBose

amily, and Later Life
While on leave from the military, on April 30, 1863, DuBose married Anne Barnwell Peronneau of Charleston, South Carolina. They had four children before her death. (The South Carolina Biographical Dictionary says that she died in 1873 and that he married Louisa Yerger in 1878.)

In 1878 Dr. DuBose married Mrs. Louise Yerger, headmistress at Fairmount College for Young Ladies in Monteagle, Tennessee at a service held in the parlor of the school. He also became chaplain to the school and priest in charge of the nearby Chapel of the Holy Comforter. Upon his retirement from the faculty of the University, Dr. DuBose lived at Fairmount College and cared for the religious needs of the school and of the townspeople, riding horseback up to Gruetli, a distance of some twenty miles twice a month to perform services for the Swiss inhabitants in the area. One Sunday he would conduct the service in German and the next Sunday he would do the same in French.

It was during this period of his life, while caring for the little chapel in Monteagle and serving at Fairmount, that Dr. DuBose wrote some of his greatest literature. After his retirement in 1908, he wrote High Priesthood and Sacrifice, The Reason of Life, and an autobiography, Turning Points in My Life, from his study in Monteagle. He remained at the School until this death in 1918.

DuBose's sister Elizabeth DuBose (1838-1875) married John Bratton, a Winnsville doctor who had graduated from South Carolina College. He became a planter, and was commissioned as an officer in the Confederate Army. He achieved the final rank of general, and led troops in both the Eastern and Western theaters during the conflict. Afterward, Bratton became a politician, being elected to the South Carolina Senate. He was later elected as the South Carolina Comptroller and ultimately as U.S. Congressman from South Carolina.

Death and honors
DuBose died in Sewanee, Tennessee in 1918; he was buried in the cemetery of The University of the South.

The DuBose Conference Center in Monteagle, Tennessee, formerly Fairmont College and long associated with the Episcopal Church as a training center, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980. In 2009, it became an independent nonprofit corporation. The Center offers hospitality and sacred space to groups of all faiths.

William Porcher DuBose was honored with a Lesser Feast on the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America on August 18.

The Episcopal Standing Commission on Liturgy and Music recommended in May 2021 that DuBose be removed from the canonical Lesser Feasts and Fasts  because of his extensive post-Civil War secular writings supporting white supremacy and early praise of the Ku Klux Klan.

On July 10, 2022, at the 80th General Convention of the Episcopal Church, the House of Deputies and the House of Bishops approved resolution C003, which removed William Porcher DuBose from the Lesser Feasts and Fasts Calendar on a trial basis due to his writings in support of white supremacy and the KKK. In an explanatory note to the resolution it was stated, "The Episcopal Church should not be honoring a man who saw no conflict in teaching Jesus, but believing that Jesus would somehow condone the enslaving, killing, torturing and destroying of the families of a people, slaves or free."

Writings 
The Christian Ministry. no publisher, 1870.
The Soteriology of the New Testament.  New York: MacMillan, 1892.
The Ecumenical Councils. New York: Christian Literature Co., 1896.
The Gospel in the Gospels.  New York: Longmans, Green, & Co., 1906.
High Priesthood and Sacrifice.  New York: Longmans, Green, & Co., 1908.
The Reason of Life.  New York: Longmans, Green, & Co., 1911.
Turning Points in My Life.  New York: Longmans, Green, & Co., 1912
More than 40 published articles.
A Dubose Reader, ed. Donald S. Armentrout.  Sewanee, TN: University of the South, 1984.

See also

 Bibliographic directory from Project Canterbury
Ralph Luker, author of A Southern Tradition in Theology and Social Criticism, 1830-1930: The Religious Liberalism and Social Conservatism of James Warley Miles, William Porcher DuBose, and Edgar Gardner Murphy. Mellen Press (1984) Hardcover: , .
Edgar Gardner Murphy

References

External links
www.findagrave no. 86340865

1836 births
1918 deaths
19th-century American Episcopalians
20th-century American Episcopalians
American Episcopal priests
19th-century Protestant theologians
American Episcopal theologians
Anglican saints
Confederate States Army officers
American Civil War prisoners of war held by the United States
People of South Carolina in the American Civil War
Sewanee: The University of the South faculty
The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina alumni
Writers from South Carolina
People from Winnsboro, South Carolina
People from Sewanee, Tennessee
19th-century Anglican theologians
20th-century Anglican theologians
Neo-Confederates