[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# March 1973

The following events occurred in March 1973:

March 1, 1973 (Thursday)
Pink Floyd's The Dark Side of the Moon, one of rock's landmark albums, was released in the U.S.; sale in the UK began on March 24.
U.S. Ambassador to Sudan Cleo A. Noel Jr., and his chargé d'affaires, Curtis Moore, were kidnapped and murdered by terrorists from the Palestinian group Black September Organization, in an attack on the Saudi Arabian Embassy in Khartoum. Guy Eid, the Belgian Embassy's chargé d'affaires, was wounded in the attack. After the U.S. refused to meet the terrorist demand for the release of assassin Sirhan Sirhan (who had killed presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy in 1968), the terrorists killed Noel, Moore and Eid.
The Xerox Alto, the first computer with a graphical operating system (a vertical monitor that displayed keyboard choices of operation to the user) and a mouse (with three buttons), became available for sale or lease. The Alto I was developed by the Palo Alto Research Center of the Xerox Corporation.
The Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC), whose assets and operations were nationalized by Iraq in 1968, reached a settlement agreement with the Iraqi government, clearing the way for other Middle Eastern nations to take control of the oil production in their nations.
British MP Dick Taverne, having resigned from the Parliament on leaving the Labour Party, was re-elected as a 'Democratic Labour' candidate.
Admiral Sourendra Nath Kohli became Chief of Staff of the Indian Navy.
The American Indian Movement (AIM) occupiers of Wounded Knee, South Dakota, released the 11 hostages that they had taken two days earlier, but continued their standoff and seizure of the Bureau of Indian Affairs building. On March 10, agents of the U.S. Department of Justice ended their blockade of the town and AIM activists left the trenches that they had dug in preparation for a fight, but the cease-fire ended the next day when an FBI agent, Curtis Fitzgerald, was shot and wounded by an AIM sniper. 
Two men kidnapped the mayor of Gallup, New Mexico, from City Hall and then barricaded themselves in a nearby sporting goods store, apparently because of his nomination to the board of regents of the University of New Mexico. Mayor Emmett Garcia was able to escape from a window after police fired tear gas into the store. His kidnapper, a university student, then killed himself.

March 2, 1973 (Friday)
Fourteen construction workers were killed and 34 injured when the center section of the 26-story Skyline Plaza collapsed in Bailey's Crossroads, Virginia (outside Washington D.C.), sending concrete and steel down on workers below. Workers had completed 23 of the stories and were working on the 24th floor that suddenly gave way under the weight of a crane that was hauling wet concrete to the top. Six bodies were recovered immediately and 12 other people were missing and feared dead.
U.S. Secretary of State William P. Rogers announced that the U.S. and China had reached an agreement in principle to settle U.S. claims against the People's Republic dating back to 1949 for $200 million worth worth of confiscated property, and the Communists claim for $100 million of frozen Chinese assets in U.S. banks.
The popular Hungarian musical Képzelt riport egy amerikai popfesztiválról (An Imaginary Report on an American Rock Festival), with music by Gábor Presser and lyrics by Anna Adamis, premiered at the Comedy Theatre of Budapest and popularized rock music in the Communist-ruled nation, then toured other Communist nations with performances in East Germany, Romania, Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia.
Died: Joe "Red" Hayes, 46, American fiddle player and songwriter with the Faron Young country music band, died of a heart attack after playing at a concert in Manchester while on the "Road to Nashville" tour of the United Kingdom. Young's band was traveling on a bus to its next stop when, as a British newspaper noted, he "died in a coach while travelling from Manchester to Chatham for a concert."