[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1983 Israel bank stock crisis

loss of a third of the public's investments in the banks, the acquisition of the banks by the government at a total cost of $6.9 billion (for reference, Israel's entire GDP in 1983 was about $27 billion), and the nationalization of the major banks (Leumi, Hapoalim, HaMizrachi, Discount, and Clali).

Executives of each of the banks were convicted of criminal charges. Raphael Recanati of Discount Bank and Mordechai Einhorn of Bank Leumi were both sentenced to 8-month prison terms. Recanati's sentence was suspended on appeal when one of five charges was quashed. As part of the settlement, the controlling interest in Discount Bank, as well as the other banks, was ceded to the government.

Bejski Commission 

Following the scandal, in 1984, the State Comptroller issued a report on the crisis, causing the Knesset State Review Committee to decide on January 7, 1985, to establish a national commission of inquiry. The commission was headed by Judge Moshe Bejski. The commission presented its findings on April 16, 1986.

The Bejski Commission came to the conclusion that the October 1983 crisis was a direct result of the stock adjustment. The commission pointed to four criminal offenses allegedly committed during the adjustment: financing and giving loans for the purchase of bank stock by the banks themselves; fraud and deceit of the client to get them to purchase stocks; conditioning one service on another; and perjury before the commission.

The commission's report states the regulatory bodies acted negligently and irresponsibly, but there were no recommendations for actions against them. Following the commission's conclusions, and after a long struggle, the banks' managers were dismissed, but no criminal charges were brought against them initially, due to "lack of public interest", according to the State Attorney. In 1990 the Supreme Court decided to order a trial of the banks' managers, and the accountants who lied to the commission.

On the administrative side, the commission concluded that investment recommendations should be separated from ownership, that is, the provident funds and mutual funds should be separated from the banks. These recommendations were not implemented, due to pressure from the banks and the government's conflict of interests as the banks' owner at the time.

The government later sold some of the banks to private investors, selling Bank Hapoalim in 1996, and HaMizrachi in 1998. The government also sold a major part of its stock in Bank Leumi in 2005, and of Discount in 2006.

In the early years of the 21st century, some of the commission's recommendations were finally put into place. After all four banks were sold by the mid-2000s, the recommendations of the subsequent Bachar Committee, which reached the same conclusions regarding separating the banks' depository and investment banking/fund management operations as the Bejski commission, were finally carried out as well. It may be argued that the timing of the crisis may have also had some additional positive effect, as the implementation of the subsequent tough banking regulations and reforms, albeit somewhat belatedly, were put in place just in time to help Israeli banks avert many of the problems experienced by banks in many other western countries during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s – by limiting Israeli banks' exposure to risky activities. This helped ensure a stable domestic banking sector, which contributed significantly to the relative resilience of the Israeli economy in face of the late-2000s recession.

See also
1985 Israel Economic Stabilization Plan

References

Further reading 

 
 

1983 in economics
1983 in Israel
Banking in Israel
Financial crises
Economic history of Israel
Shekel