[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Friends of South Asia

ism, and the Stanford Daily retracted the story. and printed apologies in the two subsequent issues, concluding that "FOSA does not have any ties to Communist or terrorist groups...We also apologize to Prof. Biju Mathew for associating him in any way with the Unabomber and other extremist elements."

Ghulam Nabi Fai and Kashmiri American Council
In 2003, FOSA invited and organized a forum speech that included Syed Ghulam Nabi Fai of Kashmiri American Council. Fai was arrested by United States' FBI in July 2011. According to U.S. court documents, Fai served as the director of the Kashmiri American Council, an NGO that held itself out to be run by Kashmiris, financed by Americans, and dedicated to raising the level of knowledge in the United States about the struggle of the Kashmiri people for self-determination. Contrary to public representations, Fai's Kashmiri American Council was secretly funded with millions of dollars by officials employed by the government of Pakistan, including the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), for several decades. Fai pleaded guilty in December 2011, and was sentenced to prison in 2012, for the crime of conspiracy to defraud the US by concealing transfer of funding from Government of Pakistan for his illegal lobbying efforts on Kashmir. There is no evidence that FOSA knew of Fai's Pakistan government's funding and connection, when it invited him as a key speaker in 2003.

Allegations of subversion
According to a 2007 article by Indian pilot and animal welfare activist V. Sundaram, the book NGOs, Subversive Activists and Foreign Funds- Anti-Nation Industry contains articles describing how FOSA and eight other groups are allegedly engaged in "anti-national activities" directed toward India, which are collectively labeled "Instruments of Hate and Fratricide."

See also
Californian Hindu textbook controversy

References

External links
Friends of South Asia

2001 establishments in the United States
Anti–Iraq War groups
Political advocacy groups in the United States
South Asian American organizations
Organizations established in 2001
Cultural organizations based in the San Francisco Bay Area