[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Jaja Wachuku

ing the 1990 years, when Nigeria started diplomatic relations with South Africa, most prominent politicians and historians in the country called for an apology to Wachuku. In 1983, he was re-elected to the Nigerian Senate until the Muhammadu Buhari military coup of December 1983.

Honours and awards

Wachuku received many honours during his lifetime. In Nigeria, he was the holder of the chieftaincy title of Ugo Ngwa (meaning Eagle and Pride of Ngwa People). This title was first conferred on him by the entire Ngwa nation in 1949, but he was only able to be formally invested in 1971. Other honours included: City of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Blue Seal, Key to the City of Atlanta, Georgia, Time "Pride of Africa" Commendation, Commander of the Order of Niger Republic, CFR Nigeria: Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, LL.D: Doctor of Laws Honoris Causa by Trinity College, University of Dublin, Ireland, KSC: Knight of Saint Christopher by the Anglican Church Nigeria, Enyi Abia (or Elephant of Abia, symbolizing wisdom, memory and strength) - an Abia State chieftaincy title; plus a Merit Award by the Government of Abia State. Posthumous special Golden Jubilee Independence Anniversary Award was conferred on Wachuku by President Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria on 30 September 2010. Hero of the Struggle for Nigeria's Independence from Great Britain and a Pioneer Political Leader Honour for Wachuku by President Jonathan on 28 February 2014 during Nigeria's 100-year anniversary celebrations. Friday 6 March 2020 "Prominent Portrait" Honour from College Historical Society: Trinity College Dublin: University of Dublin: Ireland on Two Hundred and Fifty Years Anniversary of the college's Historical Society: 1770–2020.

Death
Born in 1918, Wachuku was 78 years on his death at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital in Enugu, during the late morning of Thursday, 7 November 1996.  Wachuku's nephew, author Ugonna Wachuku, wrote a poetic dedication to his uncle titled: Some Memories Never Die. On 20 October 1961, Time wrote an article and news report on Wachuku and his diplomatic activities at the United Nations entitled "Pride of Africa."

See also

 Nigerian First Republic
 Nigerian Second Republic
 Chuku Wachuku 
 Nwabueze Jaja Wachuku 
 History of Nigeria

References

Sources

American Aviation Publications. World Aviation Directory, American Aviation Publications, 2000
Anyaoku, Emeka. The Missing Headlines: Selected Speeches, Liverpool University Press, 1997
Australia Department of External Affairs. Current Notes on International Affairs, Department of Foreign Affairs of Australia, 1972
Barros, Romeo Julius. African States and the United Nations Versus Apartheid: The Efforts of the African States to Affect South Africa's Apartheid Policy Through the United Nations, Carlton Press, 1967
Black, Joseph E.; Thompson, Kenneth W. Foreign Policies in a World of Change, Harper & Row, 1963
Boyd, Andrew. Fifteen Men on a Powder Keg: A History of the U.N. Security Council, Stein and Day, 1971 
Broun, Kenneth S. Saving Nelson Mandela: The Rivonia Trial and the Fate of South Africa (Pivotal Moments in World History), Oxford University Press USA, 2012
Burns, Eedson Louis Millard Defence in the Nuclear Age: An Introduction for Canadians, Clark, Irwin, 1976
Chatterjee, Dwarka Nath Storm Over the Congo, Vikas, 1980
Clark, Trevor. A Right Honourable Gentleman: Abubakar From the Black Rock: A Narrative Chronicle of the Life and Times of Nigeria's Alhaji Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, Edward Arnold, Sevenoaks, Kent, 1991
Dar es Salaam Institute of Public Administration University College. Case Studies in African Diplomacy, Oxford University Press, 1969
Doro. Marion E.; Maynard Stultz, Newell. Governing in Black Africa: Perspectives on New States, Prentice.Hall, 1970
Dudziak, Mary L. Cold War Civil Rights: Race and the Image of American Democracy, Princeton University Press, 2002
Eisenhower, Dwight David, United States President [1953–1961]. Dwight David Eisenhower: Containing the Public Messages, Speeches, United States Government Printing Office, 1960
Gordenker, Leon. The UN Secretary-General and the Maintenance of Peace, Columbia University Press, 1967
Great Britain Colonial Office. Annual Report on Nigeria, Her Majesty's Stationery Office, 1961
Great Britain: Office of Commonwealth Relations. The Commonwealth Relations Office Year Book, Her Majesty's Stationery Office, 1966
Gyorgy, Andrew; Gibbs, S.Hubert. Problems in International Relations, Prentice-Hall, 1962
Harris, Joseph E. Global Dimensions of the African Diaspora, Howard University Press, 1993
Hovet, Thomas. Africa in the United Nations, Northwestern University Press, 1963
India Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Jawaharlal Nehru: Homage, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, India, 1964
Indian Political Science Association. The Indian Journal of Political Science, Volume 35, Number 4: October to December 1974
Lipsky, Mortimer. Never Again War: The Case