[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 UNC SUV attack

zar's "knowledge of classical Western thought." He was serious about his grades, and served briefly as the president of the UNC psychology club. However, not all of those who knew him had the same opinion. UNC Chancellor James Moeser described him as "totally a loner, introverted, and into himself".

Fellow Muslims characterized Taheri-azar as "cantankerous and unorthodox in his practice of Islam" and "anything but traditionally devout." During prayers on campus he "wouldn't pray toward Mecca and refused to recite prayers in Arabic – contrary to standard Islamic practice." One Muslim student, Atif Mohiuddin, recalled Taheri-azar as being "anti-Arabic" and never using the standard Arabic greeting of Assalaamu Alaikum.

UNC professor Charles Kurzman noted that Taheri-Azar had limited knowledge about Islam, not even knowing the difference between Sunnis and Shias or that al-Qaeda, with whom his role model Mohammad Atta was affiliated with, does not acknowledge him as a follower of the faith because he is Shia.

Aftermath
Local Muslim leaders condemned the attack and the attempt by the assailant to link the Qur'an to his actions.

While UNC Chancellor James Moeser described Taheri-azar's attack as one of violence in an internal email to the university community, he stopped short of calling it a full-fledged act of terror. An official "Reclaim the Pit" event occurred on March 20, 2006, where students gathered for a moment of silence.

On August 26, 2008, Taheri-azar was sentenced on two counts of attempted murder to 26 years and 2 months to 33 years in prison by Orange County Superior Court.  As of March 2016, he is projected to be released in April 2032.

References

External links
 "V for Vendetta: Mohammed and Me . . . and Masks" Review of the film V for Vendetta by a professor of Taheri-azar's. The review is described as "one part movie review, three parts meditation" on the relationship between Taheri-azar and the author.

Crimes in North Carolina
Terrorist incidents in the United States in 2006
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill events
Islamic terrorism in the United States
21st-century American criminals
Iranian emigrants to the United States
2006 in North Carolina
Vehicular rampage in the United States
Attacks in the United States in 2006
Attacks on universities and colleges in the United States
March 2006 crimes in the United States
Terrorist incidents involving vehicular attacks
Terrorist incidents in North Carolina