[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Scouts BSA

attend National Youth Leadership Training (NYLT) at the council level and a select few may progress to National Advanced Youth Leadership Experience (NAYLE) at the national level. Those interested in staffing these courses may complete the Youth Staff Development Course (YSDC) at the regional level.

New adult leaders are required to attend training for their position. This training provides the essential information they need to provide a safe and successful quality program. In addition to position-specific training, all adults are required to complete Youth Protection Training (YPT). This program covers the BSA policies on preventing child abuse, including types and signs of abuse, how to respond to disclosed abuse and how to report suspected abuse. YPT recertification is required every two years and may be completed online. Introduction to Outdoor Leader Skills (IOLS) is another course that is required for Scoutmasters and Assistants Scoutmasters and furthers instruction in Scouting and outdoor skills. Once completed, the "Trained" emblem may be worn on the sleeve. The troop committee chairman and members should attend the Troop Committee Challenge for instruction in administering the program. This completes Basic Leader Training for these positions and the Trained emblem may be worn on the left sleeve.

Supplemental training modules are designed to provide instruction beyond Basic Leader Training. These shorter training sessions are often provided at the District/Council Roundtable, a monthly meeting of leaders from the district, at a University of Scouting event offered by the local councils, or at National Training Conferences held at the Philmont Training Center and the Florida National High Adventure Sea Base. Additional training events may be held at summer camps, Council events, and various BSA-sponsored events.

At least one leader with current Safe Swim Defense training is required for swimming activities. Boating activities require Safety Afloat and CPR training. Climb on Safely training and CPR certification are required for climbing and rappelling events.

Wood Badge is advanced training for leadership skills for adults in the BSA. Wood Badge consists of five days of training (usually presented as two, nonconsecutive weekends) and an application phase of several months. When training is complete, leaders are recognized with the Wood Badge beads, neckerchief, and woggle. Powder Horn is a high adventure resource course designed to help Scout leaders to safely conduct outdoor activities of a fun and challenging nature, provide an introduction to the resources necessary to successfully lead their youth through a program of high adventure and to understand what is involved in different high adventure disciplines.

History

Scouts BSA descended from what was initially the sole and entire program of the Boy Scouts of America.

References

Further reading

External links
 
 

 2