[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 144]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

you
must have been riding, and your horse has thrown you? And so it is, for
here is William following with both the horses in a foam."

William at that moment appeared, and, trotting up to his master, began
to make excuses for his own share in the business. "Indeed, sir," said
he, "I did not think there was the least harm in going out with Master
Tommy, and we were riding along as quietly as possible, and master was
giving me a long account of the Arabs, who, he said, lived in the finest
country in the world, which does not produce anything to eat or drink,
or wear, and yet they never want to come upon the parish, but ride upon
the most mettled horses in the world, fit to start for any plate in
England. And just as he was giving me this account, Punch took it into
his head to run away, and while I was endeavouring to catch him, he
jumped into a quagmire, and shot Master Tommy off in the middle of it."
"No," said Tommy, "there you mistake; I believe I could manage a much
more spirited horse than Punch, but I thought it prudent to throw myself
off for fear of his plunging deeper into the mire." "But how is this?"
said Mr Merton, "the pony used to be the quietest of horses; what can
have given him this sudden impulse to run away? Surely, William, you
were not so imprudent as to trust your master with spurs?" "No, sir,"
answered William, "not I; and I can take my oath he had no spurs on when
he first set out."

Mr Merton was convinced there was some mystery in this transaction, and,
looking at his son to find it out, he at length discovered the ingenious
contrivance of Tommy to supply the place of spurs, and could hardly
preserve his gravity at the sight. He, however, mildly set before him
his imprudence, which might have been attended with the most fatal
consequences--the fracture of his limbs, or even the loss of his
life--and desired him for the future to be more cautious. They then
returned to the house, and Mr Merton ordered his servants to supply his
guests with plenty of the most nourishing food.

After breakfast they sent for the unhappy stranger into the parlour,
whose countenance now bespoke satisfaction and gratitude; and Mr Merton,
who, by his dress and accent, discovered him to be an inhabitant of
Scotland, desired to know by what accident he had thus wandered so far
from home with these poor helpless children, and had been reduced to so
much misery.

"Alas! your honour," answered the man, "I should ill deserve the favours
you have shown me if I attempted to conceal anything from such worthy
benefactors. My tale, however, is simple and uninteresting, and I fear
there can be nothing in the story of my distress the least deserving of
your attention."

"Surely," said Mr Merton, with the most benevolent courtesy, "there
must be something in the distress of every honest man which ought to
interest his fellow-creatures; and if you will acquaint us with all the
circumstances of your situation, it may perhaps be within our power, as
it certainly is in our inclinations, to do you further service."

The man then bowed to the company with an air of dignity which surprised
them all, and thus began: "I was born in that part of our island which
is called the North of Scotland. The country there, partly from the
barrenness of the soil, and the inclemency of the season, and partly
from other causes which I will not now enumerate, is unfavourable to the
existence of its inhabitants. More than half of the year our mountains
are covered with continual snows, which prohibit the use of agriculture,
or blast the expectations of a harvest; yet the race of men which
inhabit these dreary wilds are perhaps not more undeserving the smiles
of fortune than many of their happier neighbours. Accustomed to a life
of toil and hardship, their bodies are braced by the incessant
difficulties they have to encounter, and their minds remain untainted by
the example of their more luxurious neighbours; they are bred up from
infancy with a deference and respect for their parents, and with a
mutual spirit of endearment towards their equals, which I have not
remarked in happier climates. These circumstances expand and elevate the
mind, and attach the Highlanders to their native mountains with a warmth
of affection which is scarcely known in the midst of polished cities and
cultivated countries. Every man there is more or less acquainted with
the history of his clan, and the martial exploits which they have
performed. In the winter season we sit around the blazing light of our
fires, and commemorate the glorious actions of our ancestors; the
children catch the sound, and consider themselves as interested in
supporting the honour of a nation which is yet unsullied in the annals
of the world, and resolve to transmit it equally pure to their
posterity.

"With these impressions, which were the earliest I can remember, you
cannot wonder, gentlemen, that I should have