[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Peleliu

ester W. Nimitz
US Third Fleet
Admiral William F. Halsey Jr.

Joint Expeditionary Force (Task Force 31)
Vice Admiral Theodore S. Wilkinson

Expeditionary Troops (Task Force 36)
III Amphibious Corps
Major General Julian C. Smith, USMC

Western Landing Force (TG 36.1)
Major General Roy S. Geiger, USMC

1st Marine Division
 Division Commander: Maj. Gen. William H. Rupertus, USMC
 Asst. Division Commander: Brig. Gen. Oliver P. Smith, USMC
 Chief of Staff: Col. John T. Selden, USMC
Beach assignments
 Left (White 1 & 2)
 1st Marine Regiment (Col. Lewis B. "Chesty" Puller, USMC)
 Co. A of the following: 1st Engineer Battalion, 1st Pioneer Battalion, 1st Medical Battalion, 1st Tank Battalion
 Center (Orange 1 & 2)
 5th Marine Regiment (Col. Harold D. "Bucky" Harris, USMC)
 Co. B of the following: 1st Engineer Battalion, 1st Pioneer Battalion, 1st Medical Battalion, 1st Tank Battalion (reduced)
 Right (Orange 3)
 7th Marine Regiment (Col. Herman H. "Hard-Headed" Hanneken, USMC)
 Co. C of the following: 1st Engineer Battalion, 1st Pioneer Battalion, 1st Medical Battalion, 1st Tank Battalion (reduced)
 Other units
 11th Marine Regiment, Artillery (Col. William H. Harrison, USMC)
 12th Antiaircraft Artillery Battalion
 1st Amphibian Tractor Battalion
 3rd Armored Amphibian Tractor Battalion
 4th, 5th, 6th Marine War Dog Platoons
 UDT 6 and UDT 7

Japanese order of battle

Palau District Group
Lieutenant General Inoue Sadao (HQ on Koror Island)
Vice Admiral Yoshioka Ito
Maj. Gen. Kenjiro Murai

14th Division (Lt. Gen. Sadao)
Peleliu Sector Unit (Lt. Col. Kunio Nakagawa)
 2nd Infantry Regiment, Reinforced
 2nd Bttn. / 2nd Infantry Regiment
 3rd Bttn. / 2nd Infantry Regiment
 3rd Bttn. / 15th Infantry Regiment
 346th Bttn. / 53rd Independent Mixed Brigade

Battle

Landing

US Marines landed on Peleliu at 08:32 on 15 September, the 1st Marines to the north on White Beach 1 and 2 and the 5th and 7th Marines to the center and south on Orange Beach 1, 2, and 3. As the other landing craft approached the beaches, the Marines were caught in a crossfire when the Japanese opened the steel doors guarding their positions and fired artillery. The positions on the coral promontories guarding each flank fired on the Marines with 47 mm guns and 20 mm cannons. By 09:30 the Japanese had destroyed 60 LVTs and DUKWs.

The 1st Marines were quickly bogged down by heavy fire from the extreme left flank and a  high coral ridge, "The Point". Puller's LVT was hit by a dud high velocity artillery round, and his communications section was destroyed on its way to the beach by a hit from a 47 mm round. The 7th Marines faced a cluttered Orange Beach 3, with natural and man-made obstacles, forcing the LVTs to approach in column.

The 5th Marines made the most progress on the first day, aided by cover provided by coconut groves. They pushed toward the airfield but were met with Nakagawa's first counterattack. His armored tank company raced across the airfield to push the Marines back but was soon engaged by tanks, howitzers, naval guns, and dive bombers. Nakagawa's tanks and escorting infantrymen were quickly destroyed.

At the end of the first day, the Americans held their  stretch of landing beaches but little else. Their biggest push in the south moved  inland, but the 1st Marines to the north made very little progress because of the extremely heavy resistance. The Marines had suffered 200 dead and 900 wounded. Rupertus, still unaware of his enemy's change of tactics, believed the Japanese would quickly crumble since their perimeter had been broken.

Airfield/South Peleliu

On 16 September the 5th Marines moved to capture the airfield and push toward the eastern shore. They ran across the airfield, enduring heavy artillery fire from the highlands to the north, suffering heavy casualties in the process. After capturing the airfield, they rapidly advanced to the eastern end of Peleliu, leaving the island's southern defenders to be destroyed by the 7th Marines.

This area was hotly contested by the Japanese, who still occupied numerous pillboxes. Heat indices were around , and the Marines suffered high casualties from heat exhaustion. Further complicating the situation, the Marines' water was distributed in empty oil drums, contaminating the water with the oil residue. Still, by 23 September the 5th and 7th Marines had accomplished their objectives, holding the airfield and the southern portion of the island, although the airfield remained under threat of sustained Japanese fire from the heights of Umurbrogol Mountain until the end of the battle.