[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Rashidieh

Lebanese archaeology" who for decades headed the Antiquities Service in Lebanon and was the curator of the National Museum of Beirut - conducted further excavations in Rashidieh and discovered more cinerary urns from Phoenician times.

 Lebanese independence (since 1943) 

 1948 Palestinian exodus 

When the state of Israel was declared in May 1948, the area of Tyre was immediately affected: with the Palestinian exodus – also known as the Nakba''' – thousands of Palestinian refugees fled there, often by boat. However, Rashidieh apparently continued to house Armenian refugees, while Palestinians were sheltered in a tented camp at Burj el-Shemali for transit to other places in Lebanon."In 1950, a couple of years after arriving in south Lebanon, the Lebanese authorities decided to relocate all Palestinians residing in southern towns (e.g., Tibnine, al-Mansouri, al-Qlayla, and Bint Jbeil) to designated refugee camps. The authorities established one of these camps adjacent to the Armenian camp with nothing but tents. The residents there began to build walls from mud and clay in order to reinforce the tents. For every eight housing units, they built a shared bathroom fifty meters away. A decade later, as Armenian residents began to leave, the Palestinian refugees began moving into those lots. 200 of the 311 Armenian houses remain today and are commonly referred to as the >Old Camp.<"In 1963, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees (UNRWA) built a new section in Rashidieh to accommodate Palestine refugees from Deir al-Qassi, Alma, Suhmata, Nahaf, Fara and other villages in Palestine, who were relocated by the Lebanese government from the El Bass refugee camp and from Baalbeck."After the 1969 agreement in which the Lebanese government recognized the presence of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) in Lebanon, and its control of the camps, the Rashidieh residents worked the Jaftalak fields surrounding the camp without paying any fees. Each farmer could choose a plot of land to plant and they would come to be (informally) known as the owner of that plot. The Jaftalak land was public land divided between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education, and other-defined state land. Yet the cultivation of Jaftalak fields was limited to greens: pinto beans, lettuce, parsley, cilantro, radishes, etc. The farmers were prohibited from growing fruit-bearing trees since the land did not legally belong to them. According to Lebanese property law, whoever plants a tree, automatically owns the land it is on."In 1970, the camp received more Palestinian refugees, this time from Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan following the Black September conflict between Jordanian Armed Forces (JAF) under King Hussein and the PLO led by Yasser Arafat. Rashidieh increasingly became an important recruitment and training center for Al-'Asifah, the armed wing of Arafat's Fatah faction.

In 1974, the Israeli military attacked: on May 19, the Israeli Navy reportedly shelled Rashidieh, killing 5 people and injuring 11. On 20 June, the Israeli Air Force (IAF) bombed the camp. According to the Lebanese army, 5 people were killed and 21 injured in Rashidieh.

In the same year, "a rescue excavation" was conducted in Rashidieh by Lebanon's Department of Antiquities after a mechanical digger was used to build a shelter and five Iron Age tombs were discovered.

 Lebanese Civil War (1975–1990) 

In January 1975, a unit of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) attacked the Tyre barracks of the Lebanese Army. The assault was denounced by the PLO as "a premeditated and reckless act".

Two months later, a PLO commando of eight militants sailed from the coast of Tyre to Tel Aviv to mount the Savoy Hotel attack, during which eight civilian Hostages and three Israeli soldiers were killed as well as seven of the attackers. Israel retaliated by launching a string of attacks on Tyre "from land, sea and air" in August and September 1975.

Then, in 1976, local commanders of the PLO took over the municipal government of Tyre with support from their allies of the Lebanese Arab Army. They occupied the army barracks, set up roadblocks and started collecting customs at the port. However, the new rulers quickly lost support from the Lebanese-Tyrian population because of their "arbitrary and often brutal behavior".