[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 22nd Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

ichmond, Va., April 29-May 19. Grand Review May 24. Mustered out June 12, 1865.

Casualties 
The 22nd Wisconsin suffered 2 officers and 75 enlisted men killed in action or who later died of their wounds, plus another 3 officers and 163 enlisted men who died of disease, for a total of 243 fatalities.

Notable people
 Dwight Sidney Allen was enlisted in Co. C, rose to the rank of corporal.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin Legislature.
 James Bintliff was captain of Co. G and was later made colonel of the 38th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.  After the war, he received an honorary brevet to brigadier general.  He later became involved in the newspaper business and was an owner of the Janesville Gazette.
 Caleb S. Blanchard was 1st assistant surgeon of the regiment, but resigned due to disability in 1863.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin Legislature.
 Robert Bullen, the son of John Bullen Jr., was enlisted in Co. C.  Later he was commissioned a second lieutenant in the 1st Wisconsin Heavy Artillery Regiment.
 John C. Deniston, the brother of Charles Rankin Deniston, was enlisted in Co. G.
 John Edwin Holmes was quartermaster of the regiment.  Before the war, he was the 1st Lieutenant Governor of Wisconsin.  He was captured by the enemy at the Battle of Brentwood.  He became seriously ill in prison and died two days after he was released, in May 1863.  
 Evan O. Jones was first sergeant in Co. F and later sergeant major of the regiment.  Discharged due to disability in September 1863, he later served in the Wisconsin Legislature.
 Alphonso G. Kellam was captain of Co. D and was later detailed to the brigade staff.  After the war he became a justice of the South Dakota Supreme Court.
 William Robinson was drafted into Co. E in 1864.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin Legislature.

See also

 List of Wisconsin Civil War units
 Wisconsin in the American Civil War

References

Military units and formations established in 1862
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865
Units and formations of the Union Army from Wisconsin
1862 establishments in Wisconsin