[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Heinrich Böll Foundation

nder and science; and issues  to do with sexual and reproductive rights.

Research archives
The Heinrich Böll Foundation operates two archives in Berlin, the Archiv Grünes Gedächtnis (Green Memory Archive) and the Petra Kelly Archive; in addition, it supports the Cologne-based Heinrich Böll Archive.

 Grünes Gedächtnis collects documents about the history of the German Green Party and the new social movements in Germany, including materials concerning West Germany's environmental, anti-nuclear, feminist, and peace movements after 1968, as well as East Germany's civil-rights movement. In addition to official documents of political parties and documents donated by activists or their estate, the archive has a substantial collection of campaign posters, photographs, web content, and voice and video recordings.
 The Petra Kelly Archive collects and preserves the political legacy of activist and politician Petra Kelly, including materials concerning international movements against nuclear weapons and for disarmament, peace, human rights, and emancipation.
 The Heinrich Böll Archive collects and documents everything to do with the life and works of German Nobel laureate in literature Heinrich Böll. In collaboration with the Historical Archive of the City of Cologne and members of the estate of Heinrich Böll it collects and indexes all works of Heinrich Böll as well as publications about him. Since 2002, the archive has been one of the co-editors of the critical edition of the works of Heinrich Böll.

GreenCampus
GreenCampus is the Heinrich Böll Foundation's academy for political training and continuing education. Founded in 2006, the academy offers training in political management and on diversity and gender issues for volunteers and political activists as well as professional organisers and politicians.

Awards
The Heinrich Böll Foundation sponsors a number of awards, among them

 the Petra Kelly Prize (biannual)
The Petra Kelly Prize is awarded since 1998 to people and civil society organisations for their exceptional commitment to human rights, non-violent conflict resolution, and the environment. The prize is endowed with €10,000. Awardees include the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization (UNPO), Ingrid Betancourt, Wangari Maathai, and Zhang Sizhi.
 the Hannah Arendt Award (annual)
Since 1995 the Hannah Arendt Award, named after Hannah Arendt, goes to individuals who uncover and analyse important, yet largely overlooked aspects of current political developments and who engage in public debate. The award is endowed with €10,000 and funded by the government of the state of Bremen and the Heinrich Böll Foundation Bremen. Awardees include Ágnes Heller, François Furet, Massimo Cacciari, Michael Ignatieff, Julia Kristeva, Tony Judt, Timothy D. Snyder, and Roger Berkowitz.
 the Peace Film Prize (each year as part of the Berlin Film Festival)
Since 1986 the Peace Film Prize is part of the Berlin Film Festival – and the only peace award that is part of one of the major film festivals. The price is endowed with €5000 and the awardee is also presented with a bronze created by Otmar Alt. Awardees include Marcel Ophüls for Hôtel Terminus: The Life and Times of Klaus Barbie, Michael Winterbottom for In This World, and Bille August for Goodbye Bafana.
 the Anne Klein Women's Award (annual)
The Anne Klein Women's Award was created in 2012 im memory of feminist lawyer and politician Anne Klein (1950–2011) and is funded thanks to a generous gift provided by Anne Klein in her will. The award goes to women whose outstanding commitment has helped make gender democracy a reality and who have fought against gender-based discrimination and anti-gay resentments. As an example, the 2017 Anne Klein's Women's Award went to South African activist Nomarussia Bonase who, with the Khulumani support group, is campaigning for reparations for over 100,000 victims of apartheid.

Selected publications

Books
 Soil Atlas: Facts and figures about earth, land and fields. Published in 2015 in collaboration with the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies, the Soil Atlas traces the interrelations between our growing demand for food and the depletion of soils.
 Julie-Anne Richards, Keely Boom: Big Oil, Coal and Gas Producers Paying for their Climate Damage. This book, published in collaboration with the Climate Justice Programme (CJP) proposes a new way to finance climate change adaptation – a tax on fossil fuel extraction that will have to be paid by the top 90 polluters who are responsible for two-thirds of all carbon emissions.
 Ina Praetorius: The Care-Centered Economy. Rediscovering what has been taken for granted.
 The Meat Atlas is an annual report on meat consumption and the meat industry published in co-operation with BUND, Friends of the Earth and .

Series / magazines
 Perspectives Africa
 Perspectives Asia
 Perspectives Middle East
 Perspectives Southeastern Europe
 Perspectives Turkey