[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# World Forum of Fish Harvesters and Fish Workers

The World Forum of Fish Harvesters and Fishworkers (WFF) is an international non-governmental organization that works towards the establishment and upholding of fundamental human rights, social justice and culture of fish harvesters and fish workers, affirming the sea as the source of all life and committing themselves to sustain fisheries and aquatic resources from the present and future generations in order to protect their livelihood.

The WFF is a response and also a search for alternatives to a kind of globalization that understands that the human sense of life overrides trade and the laws of the neoliberal market. It was founded in Quebec, Canada in 1995 after a number of fishworker organizations and concerned intellectuals, academics and social activists felt that while the World Trade Organization (WTO)’s Doha mandate declared that the priority of the current round of negotiations is to lift people out of poverty and promote sustainable development, the current WTO negotiations fail to incorporate their concerns and priorities, as well as those of traditional fishing communities everywhere.

The WFF currently represents 48 national organizations of traditional small-scale fishing communities in 42 nations, whose livelihoods depend directly on the sustainable management of fisheries resources. It acts as a world body representing the concerns of traditional fishing communities whose survival is directly threatened by the reduction of the role of governments in regulating fisheries.

The organization has four principal organs: the General Assembly (the main deliberative assembly); the Regional Councils (in charge of ensuring the coordination of the regional members); the Coordination Committee (in charge of representing the WFF); and the Executive Committee (in charge of handling all administrative and financial matters). The WFF's most public figures are the WFF's co-presidents, currently Margaret Nakato and Arthur Bogason (both since 2009). The organization is mainly funded from membership fees, donations, grants or any other source deemed acceptable by the Coordination Committee. The organization has three official languages: English, Spanish and French.

History 

The WFF was formed in 1995 as the result of a meeting between national organizations for coastal fishing and the fishing industry in the city of Québec. The first general meeting of the forum took place in New Delhi in 1997. Following the actual establishment of the global organization in November 1997, the WFF's Coordinating Committee met in Brussels and, in October 1999, the Committee held its first meeting in the United States at Point Montara, California. A new general assembly was held in Lisbon in 2004. The current Constitution of the WFF replaced the WFF Interim Charter of 1997.

Organization 

The WFF is based on four primary organs: the General Assembly, the Coordination Committees, an Executive Committee, and the Regional Councils. The head office of the WWF has been situated in Uganda since February 2010, hosted by the Katosi Women Development Trust (KWDT).

General Assembly
The General Assembly constitutes the WFF's highest authority. It takes place at least once every three years in a location decided by the Coordination Committee.

The functions of the General Assembly are to make official interpretations of and amendments to the constitution of the WFF, to discuss issues of common interest and adopt resolutions on subjects on the agenda, within a spirit of cooperation and of exchange of ideas, to decide on the action required to implement decisions and fulfill the objectives of the WFF and to assign tasks or duties to the Coordination Committee.

The General Assembly is composed of all the delegates representing members who attend the meeting. Each country, with at least one active member shall be entitled to representation at the General Assembly by two delegates, one of whom shall be male and the other female. Large countries, as designated by the Coordination Committee, shall be entitled to a third delegate. Each active member is entitled to nominate auditors and/or alternate delegates to participate at the General Assembly with the right to speak. This auditors or delegates must be approved by the Coordination Committee. Countries with more than one active member shall try to agree on the delegates’ representation.

Each delegate has the right to vote on any item put before the General Assembly. Votes involving constitutional approval and amendments, suspension or expulsion of a member, and the dissolution of the WFF, shall require two-thirds majority vote of delegates voting and shall also require the support of a simple majority (50 + 1%) of the countries which are represented by delegates at the General Assembly. All other decisions of the General Assembly shall be made by simple majority of the number of votes cast. However, a consensus should always be tried to be reached in the decision-making process.