[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yuval Steinitz

for chairman of the "World Likud" in June 2006, but he lost to MK Danny Danon.

18th Knesset (2009–2013)
After being reelected to the 18th Knesset, and following the Likud 2009 victory, Steinitz was appointed Minister of Finance and a member of the inner Security Cabinet by Prime Minister Netanyahu.

He was the first Finance Minister of Israel to submit to the Knesset a two-year budget, instead of the until-then customary one-year budget. This move generated some controversy, with some accusing it of decreasing government transparency and others praising it for its greater efficiency. Since then, Israel continued with the biennial budget and became the first country in the west to institute such a policy change. In 2009, most experts in the Bank of Israel and the Ministry of Finance opposed Steinitz's move, but today the biennial budget had a wide approval among the officials in the Bank of Israel and the Ministry of Finance.

19th Knesset (2013–2015)
In the 19th Knesset Steinitz served as Minister for Intelligence, Strategic Affairs and International Relations in the new government.

20th Knesset (2015–2020)
Steinitz was reelected to 20th Knesset and became Minister of National Infrastructure, Energy and Water Resources in the Thirty-fourth government of Israel.

In July 2022, Steinitz announced that he would not run for reelection to the Knesset, and announced his retirement from politics.

Legislation
Among the laws initiated by Steinitz during his tenure as MK:
 A law of three-year cooling off period for IDF generals and Heads of the Mossad, Shin Bet, and the Police, before they can become Knesset Members or government ministers.
 A law regulating the research of biological pathogens (bacteria, viruses, etc.) (with MK Aryeh Eldad).
 A law requiring noise meters in event halls.

Minister of Finance (2009–2013)
With the establishment of the 32nd by Prime Minister Netanyahu, Steinitz was appointed Minister of Finance. He took up this position in March 2009, during the beginning of the global economic crisis, and after the Israeli economy already suffered from two quarters of negative economic growth which led to almost 10% unemployment.

After few weeks at office, Steinitz has launched an emergency plan entitled "Blima & Tnufa" (Break and Accelerate) aimed at returning the country to positive economic growth, through dramatically encouraging investments in the high-tech industry, in R&D, and in construction and transportation. As part of the program, a "triple package deal" between the government, the Histadrut Unions Association and the Israel Manufacturers Association was signed. The employees agreed to contribute 3.5 Billion NIS to help accelerating growth. In April 2009, Steinitz announced his unprecedented plan to enact the first biennial budget in Israel's history, as part of his counter-crisis policy. In July 2009, the government approved the biennial budget (since then all budgets in Israel were biennial).

At the beginning of his term, Steinitz raised the VAT from 15.5% to 16.5% effectively from July 2009, but it was reduced to 16% in January 2010. In 2010 the Israeli economy has already shown the fastest growing figures in the western world, with 5% growth and sharp reduction of unemployment.<ref>Analysts shocked, officials gleeful at surging Israeli growth: 7.8% in Q4 Haaretz', 17 February 2011</ref>

In April 2009 Steinitz appointed Prof. Omer Moav as head of his advisory committee. When Moav resigned a year later, Steinitz appointed Prof. Avi Simchon to the post. In November 2009 Steinitz appointed Haim Shani as director general, but he resigned a year and a half later following the 2011 social protests.

In 2009 Steinitz started an intensive diplomatic campaign to promote Israel's acceptance to the OECD. In May 2010, after more than thirty years of failing attempts and despite strong opposition from the Arab World, Israel has finally become a full member of the OECD.

In 2010 Steinitz established the Sheshinski Committee to examine ways to increase the level of taxation on Natural Gas and Oil fields. Steinitz announced that he intended to raise the level of the over-whole "government-take" on gas and oil from 20% to around 50–60%. This led to a very aggressive campaign against him by the energy lobby, including pressures from the United States White House on behalf of the American Noble Energy. In 2011 Steinitz legislate the committee recommendations in the Knesset, raising the "government-take" on big gas fields to more than 60%. In addition, Steinitz has doubled the royalties paid by "Israel Chemicals" from using the Dead Sea natural resources and cancel its historic tax exemptions.