[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hepatitis C and HIV coinfection

s, hepatic decompensation, and immune dysregulation. Due to higher mortality rates in co-infected individuals as a result of accelerated liver disease - in comparison to individuals with HIV mono-infection - the treatment objective would be to primarily target the HCV infection in these individuals.

In individuals living with HIV, anti-retroviral therapy (ART) has been shown to preserve immune function, reduce the effects of HIV-related inflammation, and delay hepatic disease. Therefore, treatment plans for individuals with HIV/HCV co-infection include: an initial ART regimen (as recommended for HIV mono-infected individuals); simultaneous HCV treatment involving oral direct-acting antivirals (DAA); and special consideration given to potential for severe drug-drug interactions between the selected medication regimens. When initiating DAA therapy, the individual is typically assessed for ART-naivety. It is recommended that the individual, if not previously already on ART for HIV maintenance, initiate ART 4–6 weeks prior to DAA administration in order to adequately adjust to regimen and provide a greater foundation for efficacious response to HCV treatment.

HCV Treatment Options:
The overall goal of HCV DAA therapy is to create a Sustained Virological Response for 12 consecutive weeks (SVR12) to ensure the Hepatitis C virus is not detected in the blood. In clinical trials, the use of the following DAA combinations have shown similar efficacy rates (by achieving SVR12) in individuals with HIV/HCV co-infection as those with HCV mono-infection:

Elbasvir/Grazoprevir
 The Phase 3, open-label, single-arm C-EDGE CO-INFECTION Study showed that 96% (210 out of 218) of individuals with HCV genotype 1,4, or 6 and HIV co-infection were able to attain SVR12 at the end of the 12-week course of treatment.

Glecaprevir/Pibrentasvir
 The Phase 3, multi-center EXPEDITION-2 Study showed that an 8-week treatment in HIV/HCV co-infected individuals with HCV genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, or 6 without cirrhosis provided an overall SVR12 of 100% (136 out of 136 individuals), while a 12-week treatment in HIV/HCV co-infected individuals with HCV genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, or 6 with compensated cirrhosis provided an overall SVR12 of 93% (14 out of 15 individuals).

Ledipasvir/Sofosbuvir
 The multi-center, open-label, ION-4 Study showed that a 12-week course of treatment provided an overall SVR12 of 96% (321 out of 335 individuals) in individuals co-infected with HIV and HCV genotype 1 or 4.

Due to limited clinical safety data, the following DAA combinations, while available, are not considered as first-line therapies:

Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir

Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir/Voxilaprevir

Barriers to care 
Barriers to care exist when discussing therapeutic options for HCV/HIV co-infected individuals. For example, other co-morbidities such as severe hepatic decompensation, cardiac disease, and renal disorders contribute to treatment barriers since these individuals would not be eligible for anti-retroviral therapy. Individuals with continued alcohol/drug/substance abuse and those that exhibit depressive symptoms along with suicidal ideations are also subject to ineligible status for HCV treatment in HCV/HIV co-infected persons.

Epidemiology 
At the lowest estimate, there are 35 million individuals infected with HIV and 80 million infected with Hepatitis C worldwide. With the significant global effect of each of these viruses, it is also important to note that there is a considerable overlap of HIV-positive individuals co-infected with HCV. In fact, 20% of HIV-positive individuals also have Hepatitis C. This overlap is related to the common ways these viruses are spread, including contaminated blood and bodily fluids such as semen and vaginal fluids.

There are marked differences between groups affected by this co-infection. However, it is consistent that HIV-positive individuals have a higher prevalence of Hepatitis C infection. Of those co-infected with HIV and HCV, almost 60% are intravenous drug users, a high risk group for mono-infection with HIV or HCV. Additionally, prevalence varies by geographical location with the highest prevalence of co-infection located in North Africa and the Middle East versus the lowest prevalence located in East Africa.