[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Khalida Jarrar

6, she has been the PFLP's senior political leader, after the group's Secretary General Ahmad Sa'adat was arrested and placed in solitary confinement.

She was interviewed for the Goldstone Report by telephone in 2009 on the Gaza War (2008–09), after she was denied permission to leave the West Bank.

Health problem
Jarrar has suffered from bouts of deep vein thrombosis, and her lawyer has expressed concern that appropriate medical care for her condition might not be available in an Israeli prison. In July 2010, Jarrar was informed by a doctor that tests indicated she needed an urgent brain scan to establish an exact neurological diagnosis. Since the medical equipment to make the diagnosis was not available in the West Bank, where she was then detained, she was informed that the PNA's Health Ministry would cover the costs of her hospitalization in Amman, but not in Israel. As a member of the Palestinian Legislative Council, expatriation for medical tests should, she was assured, could be arranged. An Israeli official for the Civil Administration of the West Bank, said there was no security threat were she to be treated in Jordan. On August 29, she was denied transit to Jordan via the Allenby Bridge, and Shin Bet stated that she was a security threat to the region. Former European Parliament vice president Luisa Morgantini called on the European Parliament to intervene by requesting that Israel allow Jarrar to go to Amman for the necessary medical treatment. Subsequently, she was allowed, later that year, to travel to Amman for treatment.

Expulsion order
On 20 August 2014, approximately 50 Israeli soldiers surrounded Jarrar's home in Ramallah, and an Israeli officer gave her an expulsion order stating she was a threat to the security of the region and was to leave her home of residence, Ramallah, and transfer to the district of Jericho where she was to live under a restricted movement protocol for six months. The order was to be considered immediately effective. She rejected the order, stating: "it is the occupation who must leave our homeland." Ramallah, according to the Oslo Accords, is located in Area A, and under complete Palestinian jurisdiction. Jarrar refused to sign the order.

Jarrar made an appeal against the decision to an Israeli court, which reduced the restriction period from 6 to 1 month. But Jarrar actually never left Ramallah. According to a left-wing columnist of the Israeli newspaper Haaretz, her refusal to be deported lead to her arrest in April 2015.

Administrative detention, trial and conviction

On 2 April 2015, at around 1:15 a.m., Jarrar was arrested at her home by Israeli soldiers. Her husband says that a unit of 50–60 soldiers smashed the front gate and broke into the house, but otherwise did not act violently. No reason was given him for the arrest, though a commander, a Captain Yihye, said she had flouted an earlier army order to leave her home. Soldiers tried to prevent the husband and wife from embracing as she left, but Yihye intervened to allow them to do so. One of their daughters was found by her father bound by plastic handcuffs, after Khalida was taken away. According to the arrest warrant, she was involved in 'incitement and involvement in terror.' She was incarcerated in HaSharon prison. Two computers and a mobile phone were confiscated. A six-month administrative detention, which can be renewed indefinitely, was issued against her by Central Command Chief Gen. Roni Numa and was reviewed by a military court on April 8, where it was confirmed, despite international protests. Her detention without trial was condemned by Israel's Haaretz newspaper, which claimed Israel at times adopts the procedure excessively. Though International humanitarian law does accept administrative detention in exceptional cases and only as a last resort, human rights groups argue that Israel, which claims the detentions thwart militant attacks, exceeds the limits by its extensive recourse to the practice.