[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Buffington Island

ton Island were taken via steamboat to Cincinnati as prisoners of war, including most of the wounded. Morgan and most of his officers were confined to the Ohio Penitentiary in Columbus. Morgan, Thomas Hines, and a few others would later escape and return safely to Kentucky.

Battlefield preservation

Comparatively little changed on the Buffington Island battlefield in the first century after the fighting; the only substantial difference was the placement of a stone obelisk marking the battle.  In 1929, the Ohio Historical Society took ownership of the property.  In 1970, the battlefield was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.  Embracing approximately  near the river, the designated portion of the battlefield was the county's first location to be recognized as this type of historic site.  There are threats to the site as gravel mining operations have been allowed.  The current organization working to preserve the battlefield is the Buffington Island Battlefield Preservation Foundation. In September 2022, the American Battlefield Trust and its partners acquired and preserved 108 acres of the battlefield.

References

Bibliography

 Bennett, B. Kevin and Roth, David, "Battle of Buffington Island," Blue & Gray magazine, April 1998. 
 Cahill, Lora Schmidt and Mowery, David L., Morgan's Raid Across Ohio: The Civil War Guidebook of the John Hunt Morgan Heritage Trail. Columbus, Ohio: The Ohio Historical Society, 2014. .
 Duke, Basil Wilson, A History of Morgan's Cavalry. Cincinnati, Ohio: Miami Printing and Pub. Co., 1867. On-line version
 Horwitz, Lester V., The Longest Raid of the Civil War. Cincinnati, Ohio: Farmcourt Publishing, Inc., 1999. .
 Mowery, David L., Morgan's Great Raid: The Remarkable Expedition from Kentucky to Ohio.'' Charleston, South Carolina: The History Press, 2013. .

External links
Buffington Island Battlefield Preservation Foundation
Buffington Island Battlefield Memorial Park – Ohio History Connection
Update to the Civil War Sites Advisory Commission Report on the Nation’s Civil War Battlefields
Martin Lowery Buffington Island webpage [Archived]
The Fight to Save Buffington Island Battlefield [Archived]
Buffington Island Battlefield Archaeological Project – Heidelberg University [Archived]

National Register of Historic Places in Meigs County, Ohio
Geography of Meigs County, Ohio
Ohio History Connection
Jackson County, West Virginia
Meigs County, Ohio
Buffington
Morgan's Raid
Buffington Island
Buffington Island
Buffington Island
Buffington
1863 in Ohio
1863 in West Virginia
July 1863 events