[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mel Alexenberg

obal flight from New York to the Rembrandt House Museum in Amsterdam, Israel Museum in Jerusalem, University of the Arts in Tokyo, Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles and back New York. After a five-hour flight around the planet, the deconstructed angel was reconstructed at its starting point.

When it passed through Tokyo, it was already the morning of October 5. When it arrived in Los Angeles, it was still October 4. Cyberangels can not only fly around the globe, they can fly into tomorrow and back into yesterday. Millions throughout North America watched the cyberangel return from its circumglobal flight over the major TV networks' broadcasts from New York . It was featured in sixty newspaper articles and the AT&T annual report.

The AT&T cyberangel flight was preceded in 1987 by Alexenberg’s launching cyberangels from Long Island to connect it to the 48 states on mainland USA.

LightsOROT: Spiritual Dimensions of the Digital Age
LightsOROT is an interactive electronic art environment created by Mel Alexenberg in collaboration with Otto Piene and his colleagues and graduate students at MIT Center for Advanced Visual Studies to explore the spiritual dimensions of the digital age. At Yeshiva University Museum in New York from 1988–89, 25 interactive artworks were exhibited using laser animation, holography, fiber optics, biofeedback-generated imagery, computer graphics, interactive electronic media, and spectral projections.

ARTnews wrote: “Rarely is an exhibition as visually engaging and intellectually challenging as ‘LightsOROT.’ Its success lies in Alexenberg and Piene’s contributions.” The 113 page catalog includes a dialog on "Light, Vision and Art in Judaism" between Alexenberg and Dr. Norman Lamm, President of Yeshiva University, and an introduction by Harvard University Professor Rudolf Arnheim.

Legacy Thrones and Digital Scrolls

The creation of Legacy Thrones and Digital Scrolls is an exemplary model of intergenerational collaboration in creating high touch and high tech art. Artists Mel Alexenberg and Miriam Benjamin worked with art students at the New World School of the Arts together with elders representing three different ethnic communities of Miami. They collaborated in creating Legacy Thrones, monumental works of public art that enrich their shared environment.

Through aesthetic dialogue between young people and elders from the Hispanic, African-American, and Jewish communities, valued traditions of the past were transformed into artistic statements of enduring significance. Together, young and old hands shaped wet clay into colorful ceramic relief elements collaged onto three towering thrones constructed from steel, aluminum, and concrete. Installed in a park facing Biscayne Bay, each twenty-foot high, two-ton throne visually conveys the stories of each of the three ethnic communities of elders in Miami.

A Digital Scrolls project for the same elders was developed for the next year. In contrast to the high touch Legacy Throne project that told the collective story of each ethnic group, the high tech Digital Scroll project told the life stories of each individual elder. Working closely with a computer graphics student, their digitized photos and documents became elements for creating a composite. Intergenerational collaboration in creating Legacy Thrones and Digital Scrolls is an expression of contemporary culture’s way of balancing high tech and high touch experiences.

Tactile Art to Virtual NFTs
Alexenberg's tactile digital prints of the 1980's in 30 museum collections are being partnered with virtual NFTs in 2022. Rapidly developing technologies are giving rise to NFTs where cyberangels residing in blockchains remain ready to fly throughout the world. Like his AT&T and MIT projects, he is working on creating NFTs that can respond to global trends in both real and virtual space and time, artworks that are dynamic, interactive, dialogic, collaborative, kinetic, participatory, responsive, and exploratory – art that leaps out of the blockchain.