[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# McDonald Mariga

to join Inter in 2010.

Latina
In January 2016 he was signed by Serie B club Latina.

Oviedo
On 31 July 2017, Mariga signed a one-year deal with Spanish Segunda División club Real Oviedo.

International career

Mariga scored his first international goal for Kenya against Swaziland on 25 March 2007.

Personal life
Mariga's father, Noah Wanyama, a left-winger, played for A.F.C. Leopards and the Kenya national football team. His younger brother Victor Wanyama is also a professional football player, who is currently playing for Major League Soccer club Montreal Impact, while his other brothers Thomas and Sylvester are also footballers in the Kenyan Premier League. Their younger sister Mercy was the captain of the Lang'ata High School basketball team, and previously played football and netball.

In 2013, Mariga ended his engagement to his long-time Rwandese fiancée Ariane Umutoni, after relations between the couple reportedly deteriorated.

Political ambitions

In September 2019, Mariga made a debut in Kenya's politics after announcing plans to contest for a parliamentary seat in a by-election in one of the constituencies (Kibra).
He was nominated by the Jubilee Party as its flag bearer in the Kibra by-election. The by-election was occasioned by the death of former MP Ken Okoth, who died on 26 July 2019, after a long battle with colon cancer.

The Kenyan electoral commission IEBC; has however, not cleared Mariga to participate in the election.
Although Mariga had applied to be registered as a voter on 26 August 2019 in Starehe constituency, the IEBC insisted that his name was not in its register. Mariga appealed the decision, but the matter is yet to be concluded. If he qualifies to vie, he will face off with Bernard Okoth of ODM and several other contestants.

Career statistics

International
Scores and results list Kenya's goal tally first.

Honours 
Helsingborgs IF

 Svenska Cupen: 2006

Inter Milan

 Serie A: 2009–10
 Coppa Italia: 2009–10 , 2010–11
 Supercoppa Italiana: 2011
 UEFA Champions League: 2009–10
 FIFA Club World Cup: 2010

See also

References

External links
Real Sociedad official profile 
McDonald Mariga Moves to Serie B club in Italy

1987 births
Living people
Footballers from Nairobi
Kenyan Luhya people
Kenyan men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Tusker F.C. players
Enköpings SK FK players
Helsingborgs IF players
Parma Calcio 1913 players
Inter Milan players
Real Sociedad footballers
Real Oviedo players
Allsvenskan players
Serie A players
Serie B players
La Liga players
UEFA Champions League winning players
Kenya men's international footballers
Kenyan expatriate men's footballers
Kenyan expatriate sportspeople in Sweden
Kenyan expatriate sportspeople in Italy
Kenyan expatriate sportspeople in Spain
Expatriate men's footballers in Sweden
Expatriate men's footballers in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in Spain