[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Francis Xavier Pierz

Father Pierz sailed for Slovenia to live out his last years. After spending the winter at the Franciscan monastery in his native Kamnik, he moved to Ljubljana, where he lived for several years as a permanent guest in the Archdiocesan Chancery.  The Austro-Hungarian Crown awarded him a full pension.

According to Fr. John Seliskar, who knew Fr. Pierz in his last years, "The past for him was a blank; he had no realization of his surroundings. He would frequently hail a cab and request the driver to take him to Wabasha, or some Indian mission he attended in America. A few minutes' drive would satisfy him, for he no longer remembered the order he had given the coachman. He left his memory and his mind among the red men. The writer of these lines remembers the aged missionary, bowed down with the weight of years, with a faraway look in his eyes, walking the streets of Laibach, but his spirit apparently wandering in the American forests."

Father Pierz died on January 22, 1880. After a Tridentine Requiem Mass offered by the Bishop of Ljubljana, he was interred in Saint Christopher's Cemetery in the Bežigrad District of Ljubljana. St. Christopher's Cemetery and the two churches associated with it were destroyed in 1955 to create a fairground for the 7th Congress of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. As of 1989, the current location of Father Pierz's remains is unknown.

Legacy

Father Pierz continues to be fondly remembered in both his native land and in central Minnesota. He remains a popular figure in Minnesota folklore, with stories about him passed down among both the Ojibwa and White ethnic Catholics of the area.

Writing in 1997, Jewish-American historian of America's religious architecture Marilyn J. Chiat described Fr. Pierz's legacy as follows, "Father Francis X. Pierz, a missionary to Indians in central Minnesota, published a series of articles in 1851 in German Catholic newspapers advocating Catholic settlement in central Minnesota. Large numbers of immigrants, mainly German, but also Slovenian and Polish, responded. Over 20 parishes where formed in what is now Stearns County, each centered on a church-oriented hamlet. As the farmers prospered, the small frame churches were replaced by more substantial buildings of brick or stone such as St. Mary, Help of Christians, a Gothic Revival stone structure built in 1873. Stearns County retains in its German character and is still home to one of the largest rural Catholic populations in Anglo-America."

The city of Pierz, Minnesota, which was Fr. Pierz's last parish assignment before returning to the Austro-Hungarian Empire, is named in his honor.
A statue of Fr. Pierz, which celebrates his role as a missionary and peacemaker by showing an Ojibwe warrior and a German-American settler kneeling before him, was dedicated in front of St. Cloud Hospital in 1952. During the early 21st century, however, the statue was removed following protests by the St. Cloud chapter of the American Indian Movement, who had believed, incorrectly, that Fr. Pierz was associated with the much later linguistic imperialism, English only policy, and the other abuses within the residential school system. The statue was erected instead in nearby Pierz, Minnesota.
In Slovenia, a bronze monument to him was erected in Podbrezje, his last parish assignment before going to the US.
A large collection of his letters and poetry are preserved in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia in Ljubljana.
The Slovene Ethnographic Museum in Ljubljana holds numerous rare American Indian artifacts collected and donated by Father Pierz.
The St. Francis Xavier Catholic school in Sartell, Minnesota is also named in his honor.
 In 2018 a group of 39 Slovenian pilgrims visited both St. Cloud and the Church of St. Stephen to pay tribute to Fr. Pierz, Bishop James Trobec, and the role that Slovenian-American missionaries and pioneers had played in the building of Central Minnesota.

Quotes
A missioner in America is like a plaything in the hand of God. Sufferings and joys alternate constantly. No conquest for the Kingdom can be achieved here without exertion and the sweat of one's brow. Our dear Lord permits us to be humiliated and prepared by much suffering before he employs us as instruments of His mercy in the conversion of the Pagans and allows us to enjoy the comforts of soul their spiritual rebirth causes."