[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 68]
# Politics — Aristotle

hing is better done which has the
whole attention of one person, than when that [1299b] attention is
divided amongst many; but in small states it is necessary that a few of
the citizens should execute many employments; for their numbers are so
small it will not be convenient to have many of them in office at the
same time; for where shall we find others to succeed them in turn? Small
states will sometimes want the same magistrates and the same laws as
large ones; but the one will not want to employ them so often as the
other; so that different charges may be intrusted to the same person
without any inconvenience, for they will not interfere with each
other, and for want of sufficient members in the community it will be
necessary. If we could tell how many magistrates are necessary in every
city, and how many, though not necessary, it is yet proper to have, we
could then the better know how many different offices one might assign
to one magistrate. It is also necessary to know what tribunals in
different places should have different things under their jurisdiction,
and also what things should always come under the cognisance of the same
magistrate; as, for instance, decency of manners, shall the clerk of the
market take cognisance of that if the cause arises in the market, and
another magistrate in another place, or the same magistrate everywhere:
or shall there be a distinction made of the fact, or the parties? as,
for instance, in decency of manners, shall it be one cause when it
relates to a man, another when it relates to a woman?

In different states shall the magistrates be different or the same?
I mean, whether in a democracy, an oligarchy, an aristocracy, and a
monarchy, the same persons shall have the same power? or shall it
vary according to the different formation of the government? as in an
aristocracy the offices of the state are allotted to those who are well
educated; in an oligarchy to those who are rich; in a democracy to the
freemen? Or shall the magistrates differ as the communities differ?
For it may happen that the very same may be sometimes proper, sometimes
otherwise: in this state it may be necessary that the magistrate have
great powers, in that but small. There are also certain magistrates
peculiar to certain states--as the pre-advisers are not proper in a
democracy, but a senate is; for one such order is necessary, whose
business shall be to consider beforehand and prepare those bills which
shall be brought before the people that they may have leisure to
attend to their own affairs; and when these are few in number the state
inclines to an oligarchy. The pre-advisers indeed must always be few
for they are peculiar to an oligarchy: and where there are both
these offices in the same state, the pre-adviser's is superior to
the senator's, the one having only a democratical power, the other an
oligarchical: and indeed the [1300a] power of the senate is lost in
those democracies, in which the people, meeting in one public assembly,
take all the business into their own hands; and this is likely to happen
either when the community in general are in easy circumstances, or when
they are paid for their attendance; for they are then at leisure often
to meet together and determine everything for themselves. A magistrate
whose business is to control the manners of the boys, or women, or who
takes any department similar to this, is to be found in an aristocracy,
not in a democracy; for who can forbid the wives of the poor from
appearing in public? neither is such a one to be met with in an
oligarchy; for the women there are too delicate to bear control. And
thus much for this subject. Let us endeavour to treat at large of the
establishment of magistrates, beginning from first principles. Now, they
differ from each other in three ways, from which, blended together,
all the varieties which can be imagined arise. The first of these
differences is in those who appoint the magistrates, the second consists
in those who are appointed, the third in the mode of appointment; and
each of these three differ in three manners; for either all the citizens
may appoint collectively, or some out of their whole body, or some out
of a particular order in it, according to fortune, family, or virtue, or
some other rule (as at Megara, where the right of election was amongst
those who had returned together to their country, and had reinstated
themselves by force of arms) and this either by vote or lot. Again,
these several modes may be differently formed together, as some
magistrates may be chosen by part of the community, others by the whole;
some out of part, others out of the whole; some by vote, others by lot:
and each of these different modes admit of a four-fold subdivision; for
either all may elect all by vote or by lot; and when all elect, they may
either proceed without any distinction, or they may elect by a certain
division of tribes, war