[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shireen Mazari

er than deploring the attack itself or offering condolences. She accused Dawn to pursue an anti-Pakistani agenda. While mobs surrounded the offices of Dawn calling for the editor to be hanged, she left the defense of the freedom of expression in Pakistan to others, such as Reporters without Borders.

On 21 November 2020, Mazari while citing an online article, wrote on Twitter that French president "Macron [was] doing to Muslims was what the Nazis did to the Jews – Muslim children will get ID numbers (other children won't) just as Jews were forced to wear the yellow star on their clothing for identification". French government denounced Mazari's tweet as "fake news and false accusation" and stated that "the proposed ID would be for all children in France". Bina Shah, a writer and New York Times columnist, said "just like in Pakistan, where as soon as you register a child's birth, the child will get assigned a 13 digit number which is then their NIC number when they reach 18". Later, Mazari deleted her tweet and issued a clarification stating that the article on the basis of which she had written her tweet has been amended. The online article, which was quoted by Mazari, now includes a clarification stating that the new law will be applied to all children in France. Foreign Ministry of France thanked Mazari for deleting her tweet and accepted her clarification.

Shireen Mazari has also been criticized for her silence on China's persecution of Uyghurs during a talkshow at Al Jazeera. However, Mazari said that "there may be such cases in China and we have taken up those cases with the Chinese and that is how we deal with our allies."

Works

Books
 Pakistan's security and the nuclear option, Institute of Policy Studies, 1995, 167 p. Co-edited with Tarik Jan et al. 
 The Kargil conflict, 1999 : separating fact from fiction, Institute of Policy Studies, 2003, 162 p.

Research papers
 Nuclear safety and terrorism : a case study of India, Institute of Strategic Studies, 2001, 46 p. Co-written with Maria Sultan. 
 Pakistan's nuclear doctrine and approach to arms control, Institute of South Asian Studies, 2005, 17 p.
 Islam and the West' dialogue : what achievements? What new effective methods?, ISIS Malaysia, 2008, 16 p.

References

External links

More Reading
 List of members of the 15th National Assembly of Pakistan
 

 

Living people
Baloch politicians
1966 births
Pakistani women journalists
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf MNAs
Pakistani political scientists
Columbia Graduate School of Arts and Sciences alumni
Alumni of the London School of Economics
Academic staff of Quaid-i-Azam University
Defence and security analysts in Pakistan
Pakistani women academics
Pakistani MNAs 2013–2018
People from Islamabad
Women members of the National Assembly of Pakistan
Pakistani MNAs 2018–2023
Women political scientists
Human rights ministers of Pakistan
21st-century Pakistani women politicians