[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mikveh Israel

nams). Most of the fields are irrigated using wells and include field crops, industrial crops, vegetables, fruit trees, orange groves and greenhouses. The school also raises animals including milk cows, chickens and honey bees, as well as having auxiliary branches including computerized agriculture.

One dunam (0.1 hectares) is covered by greenhouses. The aim of the greenhouse production branch is to teach students and allow them to research greenhouse issues and technologies. A rainwater harvesting system allows efficient re-use of water collected from the roof for growing of vegetables in greenhouses.

Gardening and landscaping activity over 100 dunams (10 hectares) includes woods, lawns and beauty & leisure gardens and spots throughout the village. The gardening and landscaping is maintained by the students supervised and coached by the manager of this production branch.

The botanical garden was established in 1930 in order to adapt and acclimate trees and species to the Israeli climate. Plants were imported from all over the world. It now covers now 70 dunams (7 hectares).

The dairy farm covers as genetics, computers, milking parlor and cooling, product quality control, feeding, herd health, udder health, artificial insemination and embryo transfer and implants.

The stable has the following breeds of riding horses: Hanoverian, Holland and quarter-horse breeds suited to all types of horseback riding: western, sports, and therapeutic riding.

Notable alumni
David Tabak (1927–2012), Olympic runner
 Avraham Yoffe (1913-1983), Soldier, Head of the Nature Preservation Society, politician

See also
Education in Israel
Aliyah
Bilu (movement)
Joseph Niego
Education in the Ottoman Empire
List of schools in the Ottoman Empire

References

External links
Official website
An Agricultural School and Pioneer Settlement: Mikve-Yisrael in 19th Century Palestine, Ran Aaronsohn

Agricultural schools
Boarding schools in Israel
Educational institutions established in 1870
Jews and Judaism in Ottoman Palestine
Schools in Israel
High schools in Israel
Zionism
1870 establishments in Ottoman Syria