[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Dermot O'Hurley

o David Rothe "was induced to go in and tempt him to apostatise and she urgently besought him to yield; but he, frowning on her, ordered her to fall at his knees and humbly beg pardon of God and absolution for so grave a crime against God, so hurtful to her own soul, and so abhorred by her brother."

According to surviving correspondence between Dublin and Whitehall, Queen Elizabeth I was reluctant to dispense with a fair trial under English Law, but her mind was changed by Sir Francis Walsingham at the urging of Loftus and Wallop, who alleged that a public trial would allow the Archbishop to make an "impudent and clamorous denial" of the charges against him. Loftus and Wallop also feared that a public trial by jury might result in an acquittal for "treasons committed in foreign parts against Her Majesty" owing to the lack of evidence that a crime had been committed and to the widespread Catholic sympathies within the Pale.

On 28 April 1584, a direct order was sent from Walsingham on behalf of the Queen, expressly forbidding the further use of torture, while also adding that it was the Queen's pleasure that Archbishop O'Hurley, "being so notorious and ill a Subject", should be executed.

Martyrdom

Upon learning that the Earl of Ormonde, by whose influence and power they feared Dermot O'Hurley's life would be saved, was coming to Dublin Castle to congratulate new Lord Deputy Sir John Perrot, Loftus and Wallop decided to put the Archbishop to death as soon as possible. On 19 June 1584, Loftus and Wallop, with Perrot's permission, tried the Archbishop before a drumhead military tribunal, where the Papal Bull documenting his consecration to the Episcopate, his letters of introduction, and other documents were presented as evidence against him. Loftus and Wallop then issued a death warrant to the Knight Marshal, with orders to, "do execution", upon Archbishop Dermot O'Hurley. In the early morning of 19, or 20, June 1584, O'Hurley was taken out of the Bermingham Tower in Dublin Castle at dawn. Despite efforts at both silence and secrecy, the Archbishop's fellow Catholic prisoners took notice and called out that O'Hurley was innocent. Rev. Power, the former Bishop of Ferns, who, after learning of O'Hurley's constancy, had returned to Catholicism and once again had again been imprisoned, too, "called out aloud that he rather deserved that fate for the scandal he had formerly given, but that Hurley was an innocent and holy man. Upon which the jailer severely flogged him and the others, and so reduced them to silence."

As Lord Justice Henry Wallop and three or four guards went before him, the Archbishop was drawn on a hurdle through the Garden Gate, or Postern Gate, in the city walls of Dublin to be hanged in a willow forest, either in St Stephen's Green or at Hoggen Green. The usual location of the gallows in Elizabethan era Dublin was at Lower Baggot Street (), formerly called Gallows Road; where Fitzwilliam Street and Baggot Street now intersect and between Fitzwilliam Street and Pembroke Street.

The execution party was taken by surprise by the arrival of a group of Dublin city worthies, who had come to Hoggen Green to shoot an archery match. In his speech from the gallows, the Archbishop proclaimed,

After also "forgiving his torturers with all his heart", Archbishop O'Hurley was hanged, allegedly from a noose woven out of willow branches in order to further prolong his sufferings by causing a slow death from strangulation. Afterwards, like other Elizabethan era execution victims, Archbishop O'Hurley was cast into a mass grave located in a nearby field. His body was secretly exhumed, placed in a wooden urn by London-born Recusant William Fitzsimon, and reburied under cover of darkness in consecrated ground at St. Kevin's Church, Camden Row, Dublin.  Many miracles are said to have been wrought at his gravesite, which has remained a site of pilgrimage ever since.

Legacy
As word of his execution spread, O'Hurley was immediately revered as a martyr by Catholics throughout Europe. Several accounts of his life and death were printed and reached a wide audience.