[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Anti-ballistic missile

e defense systems that would have formerly been prohibited by the bilateral treaty. The action was stated as needed to defend against the possibility of a missile attack conducted by a rogue state. The next day, the Russian Federation dropped the START II agreement, intended to completely ban MIRVs.

The Lisbon Summit of 2010 saw the adoption of a NATO program that was formed in response to the threat of a rapid increase of ballistic missiles from potentially unfriendly regimes, though no specific region, state, or country was formally mentioned. This adoption came from the recognition of territorial missile defense as a core alliance objective. At this time, Iran was seen as the likely aggressor that eventually led to the adoption of this ABM system, as Iran has the largest missile arsenal of the Middle East, as well as a space program. From this summit, NATO's ABM system was potentially seen as a threat by Russia, who felt that their ability to retaliate any perceived nuclear threats would be degraded. To combat this, Russia proposed that any ABM system enacted by NATO must be universal to operate, cover the entirety of the European continent, and not upset any nuclear parity. The United States actively sought NATO involvement in the creation of an ABM system, and saw an Iranian threat as a sufficient reason to warrant its creation. The United States also had plans to create missile defense facilities, but NATO officials feared that it would have provided protection to Europe, it would have detracted from the responsibility of NATO for collective defense. The officials also argued the potential prospect of U.S-commanded operation system that would work in conjunction with the Article 5 defense of NATO.

On 15 December 2016, the US Army SMDC had a successful test of a U.S. Army Zombie Pathfinder rocket, to be used as a target for exercising various anti-ballistic missile scenarios. The rocket was launched as part of NASA's sounding rocket program, at White Sands Missile Range.

In November 2020, the US successfully destroyed a dummy ICBM. The ICBM was launched from Kwajalein Atoll in the general direction of Hawaii, triggering a satellite warning to a Colorado Air Force base, which then contacted the . The ship launched a SM-3 Block IIA missile to destroy the US dummy, still outside the atmosphere.

See also
 2010 Chinese anti-ballistic missile test
 Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense System
 Atmospheric entry
 Command systems in the United States Army
 Indian Ballistic Missile Defence Programme
 Kinetic kill vehicle
 Missile defense
 Anti-torpedo torpedoes
 Multiple Kill Vehicle
 National Missile Defense
 Nuclear disarmament
 Nuclear proliferation
 Nuclear warfare
 Safeguard/Sentinel ABM system
 Spartan (missile)
 Sprint (missile)
 Terminal High Altitude Area Defense

Notes

Citations

General sources 
 Murdock, Clark A. (1974), Defense Policy Formation: A Comparative Analysis of the McNamara Era. SUNY Press.

Further reading
 Laura Grego and David Wright, "Broken Shield:  Missiles designed to destroy incoming nuclear warheads fail frequently in tests and could increase global risk of mass destruction", Scientific American, vol. 320, no. no. 6 (June 2019), pp. 62–67.  "Current U.S. missile defense plans are being driven largely by technology, politics and fear.  Missile defenses will not allow us to escape our vulnerability to nuclear weapons.  Instead large-scale developments will create barriers to taking real steps toward reducing nuclear risks—by blocking further cuts in nuclear arsenals and potentially spurring new deployments."  (p. 67.)

External links

Article on Missile Threat Shift to the Black Sea region
Video of the Endo-Atmospheric Interceptor missile system test by India 
Video of the Exo-Atmospheric interceptor missile system test by India
Center for Defense Information
Federation of American Scientists
MissileThreat.com
Stanley R. Mickelson Safeguard complex
History of U.S. Air Defense Systems

 
Missile defense
Missile types
Russian inventions
Surface-to-air missiles