[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Linus Yale Sr.

ge gained through the war effort was very useful for the Yale Lock Company as each part of the lock system was designed to allow its manufacture with machine tools, just like the concept of the precise-machine tools of interchangeable parts used by his brother Allen Yale at LG & Yale during the war.

Family

Marriage

Linus Yale Sr. married to Catherine Brooks, who was born into a prominent New England family, and was credited for her active work in the abolitionist cause in Philadelphia, where she worked as a teacher at the school of abolitionist architect Theodore Dwight Weld. 

She was the daughter of John Brooks, a doctor and member of the Legislature. His grandson was the Governor of Wyoming Bryant Butler Brooks, and his cousin was the Bishop of Massachusetts Phillips Brooks. Catherine's favorite teacher was the famous Ralph Waldo Emerson, who was also from Massachusetts. Her half-sister, Jean Brooks Greenleaf, was married to Congressman Halbert S. Greenleaf, and was elected President of the New York State Women's Suffrage Association.

Around 1850, Linus Sr. built the Yale-Cady Octagon House for the marriage of his daughter Chlothilda to Ira L. Cady. The building is now listed on the National register of Historic Places. 

They were the parents of architect Merton Yale Cady, who married to Alice Maria Deere, daughter of John Deere, founder of the John Deere conglomerate. Their granddaughter Jane Mabel Skinner married to Warren Crandall Giles, president of the National League of baseball and the Cincinnati Reds, and were the parents of William Yale Giles, co-proprietor of the Philadelphia Phillies.

Grandchildren

Just as his son Linus Yale Jr., Linus Sr.'s grandchildren would be part of the industrial revolution. 

Madeline Yale Wynne became an artist and philanthropist. She married Senator Henry Winn, son of Senator Reuben Winn, and studied at the Art Students League of New York.

John Brooks Yale joined the Union League of New York, and married to Marie Louise McCulloch, daughter of U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Hugh McCulloch, who played a central role in financing  the American Civil War under Abraham Lincoln. He was a millionaire in 1892, and was with President Lincoln the morning he was shot and at his death bed until his last moments.

John became Treasurer of the Yale Lock Company, and helped Henry R. Towne scaling the enterprise into a global company, with 12 000 workers and their products sold in more than 120 countries. He also became the Representative of the Illinois Steel Company from N.Y. in the Empire Building. The company was the largest steel producer in the United States and they later acquired Andrew Carnegie's company, Carnegie Steel, with J.P. Morgan.

Julian L. Yale (1848-1909) was the owner and President of Julian L. Yale & Co., a railway supply business from the Railway Exchange Building and the Rookery Building in Chicago. He introduced the Shelby Steel Tube to the railway market.  His notable customers were Carnegie Steel, Illinois Steel, Lackawanna Steel, and others. He also became a member of the Union Leagues of New York and Chicago, the Chicago Club, the Chicago Athletic Association, the Cliff Dwellers Club, the Union Club, and the St. Louis Club. 

A great-grandson of Linus Sr. was golfer John Deere Cady, and another member of his family was merchant William Henry Yale, grandson of merchant William Yale. He was in the dry goods business, co-proprietor of Townsend & Yale, one of the oldest and largest commission house in the U.S., with offices on Fifth Avenue, New York, Boston, Chicago, and Philadelphia. The firm was the sole agent of the Boston Manufacturing Company, one of the very first factories in America. William Henry Yale was a Yale graduate, and a member of the Yale Club, Sons of the American Revolution, and the Union League Club of New York. His father, Henry Clay Yale (1829-1897), was also a member of the Union League Club of New York.

Patents

Patents by Linus Yale Sr. from the United States Patent and Trademark Office, signed by the President of the United States, Andrew Jackson:

 20 Jan. 1830  mill stone dresser — Salisbury, New York
 17 Sept. 1833  horse power — Otsego, New York (with P.C. Curtis)
 17 Sept. 1833  threshing machine — Utica, New York (with P.C. Curtis)
 11 Sept. 1835  sawmill head block — Utica, New York
 17 May 1838  grain threshing machine — Little Falls, New York (with S.W. Stimson)
 29 July 1841  sawmill dog — Newport, New York
 20 Oct. 1843  combination lock — Springfield, Massachusetts (with C. Wilson)
 13 June 1844  pin tumbler safe lock — Springfield, Massachusetts
 13 Feb. 1849  safe — Newport, New York
 18 Oct. 1853  a bank lock — Newport, New York
 28 Feb. 1854 a bank lock — Newport, New York
 22 May 1855  a bank lock — Newport, New York
 5 Aug. 1856  vault and safe door bolt — Newport, New York
 8 Sept. 1857  padlock — Newport, New York

References