[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battery Directive

issuasive" penalties for actions not comporting to the battery Directive and apprise the European Commission of these measures and any changes (Art. 25).

Collection targets
Annex I Battery Collection Targets mentioned in Art. 10 above:

Year X is the year including the date mentioned in Article 26.

In practice
In practice, manufacturers of batteries need to make sure they have applied the legal framework to their company. This means they need to check who the producer under legal terms of the directive is and whether they have fulfilled the labelling obligation. In the next step manufacturers or distributors have to define their battery strategy and register with battery compliance schemes to control battery compliance and monitor recycling and recovery results. While working within the framework of the battery directive manufacturers, producers and distributors also have to be aware of financial aspects and registration timelines to ensure compliance and reduce risks of their batteries. Most of the time they are supported with advice by suitable qualified persons.

Related laws
The Mercury-Containing and Rechargeable Battery Management Act of 1996 is a similar law in the United States, banning the sale of mercury-containing batteries (except small button cells), and requiring labelling for disposal and recycling.  The U.S. state of California and New York City require recycling of rechargeable batteries, and along with the state of Maine require the recycling of cell phones.

Similar European pieces of legislation protecting the environment and health, parallel to the Battery Directive, are the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directives and Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation.

See also
 Battery recycling
 List of European Union directives

References

External links
 Summary of and links to EU legislation
 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and repealing Directive 91/157/EEC; Jan. 1999
 Consolidated Text of the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities 2003/0282 (COD); June 2006

2006 in European Union law
Battery recycling
Electronic waste in Europe
European Union directives
Waste legislation in the European Union