[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marc Murphy (footballer)

s in 2011. He was named in the All-Australian team for the first time in his career, on the half-forward flank, and won his first John Nicholls Medal for best and fairest player at Carlton. He was also named as the AFL Coaches' Association Champion Player of the Year, and The Age Player of the Year.

2012
Murphy started the year as strong as he finished 2011, becoming the favourite for the Brownlow Medal before a heavy collision with Patrick Dangerfield in round 8 where he sustained a shoulder injury. He returned in round 16, and from round 17 to 21 was named as the acting captain in the absence of Chris Judd.

2013
Marc was announced Captain of the Carlton Football Club after superstar Chris Judd stepped down. He began leading well, averaging 22 disposals for the season.

2014
In 2014 Marc played a consistent season averaging 24 Disposals in 20 games. He finished second in the John Nicholls Medal.

2015
Marc celebrated his 200th game against the Hawthorn Football Club in round 17 2015. Although the Blues were beaten convincingly, Marc had a match-high 37 Disposals. Marc finished second in the Blues' Best and Fariest by a vote behind young gun Patrick Cripps.

2016
At the end of 2015, it was speculated that Murphy might lose the Carlton captaincy when new coach Brendon Bolton declared that the club was going through a "real reset" which included reviewing the leadership. However early in the 2016 preseason, Murphy was reappointed captain the club again for a 4th straight season. The 2016 campaign started well for Marc until he suffered a season-ending ankle injury against Geelong in round 10.

2017
Marc bounced back from an injury-filled year to produce one of his most impressive to date, averaging over 29 disposals for the second time in his career. He won his second John Nicholls Medal as Carlton's Best and Fairest. His experience and leadership played a vital role in the club's "reset" which is still in progress today.

 2018 
Even at the age of 30 and after a wooden spoon season, Murphy still expressed his commitment to the football club after signing a contract extension. Murphy had another injury hindered season, only being able to play in 13 games. He once again committed to the team, signing an extension until the end of the 2020 season, proving his loyalty to the club.

 2019 
Marc Murphy stepped down as captain after his injury plagued 2018 season, giving young leaders Sam Docherty and Patrick Cripps co-captaincy. Murphy still remains in the leadership group, though alongside Ed Curnow and Kade Simpson.

 2021 

In August 2021, Murphy announced his retirement from his playing career, which came after his 300th and last game against Port Adelaide.
 
Four months after his retirement in December 2021, Murphy reflected on his playing career at Carlton and stated that “It was definitely the wrong decision to sack Brett Ratten as senior coach and replace him with Mick Malthouse” and Carlton was in great form under Ratten and “stiff” to narrowly lose its semi-final to the West Coast Eagles in the 2011 season". Murphy further added “I just think there’d been so much investment in Ratts and we were progressing really well and unfortunately through circumstance, I think it was too quick to just go ‘nah, we’ll go in another direction’. Essentially you end up having to go backwards before you go up again really. Very rarely will someone come in as a new coach and just go bounce straightaway". “I think the support and the communication needed to be better at that time. I was never one for going upstairs, so to speak, and getting involved in all of that chat. I was dealing with coaches, not necessarily getting involved with CEOs and the rest of it about who appoints people. “Hindsight’s a wonderful thing, but I think it was a bad move”.  

Murphy then criticised his former senior coach Malthouse stating "his time at Carlton, I don’t think he was really in it for the right reasons. Then once it turned pear-shaped, it was all about him, unfortunately, at the end and I was left to be thrown at the bus quite a bit". “He was obviously a terrific coach, but unfortunately at Carlton for us and for me and the boys who were there working so hard, it just didn’t work out” and “It was extremely difficult, but Mick was a very autocratic leader. It was all whatever he said basically goes. I could have my input, but I couldn’t get really any traction whatsoever".

 Personal life 
In September 2015, Murphy proposed to longtime girlfriend, model, actor and blogger Jessie Habermann.  They were married in December 2016. Their first child was born in 2018.

Since 2010, Murphy has been an ambassador for the MAD Foundation, a Melbourne non-for-profit organisation helping disabled and disadvantaged young people.

Statistics
  Statistics are correct to end of round 22, 2021