[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aquae Arnemetiae

including a silver coin, tiles, leather sandals, gritstone hearths, glassware and many fragments of fine Samian pottery. Pottery inscriptions indicate that they were made in 60-100 AD and from Verulamium (modern St Albans). The milestone and the other Roman items are on display in the Buxton Museum.

Numerous Roman remains were also discovered in 1811 on the site of Buxton's Town Hall, when it was built at the north end of the market place. Close to the Town Hall, Roman floor slabs were found in the cellar of 3 Hall Bank in 2006 and large Roman masonry is exposed in 8A Hall Bank.

Roman coins and Romano-British bronze jewellery were also found in nearby Poole's Cavern in 1865.

A gritstone altar dedicated to Arnemetia (Arnomecta) was found in 1903 in the strong room of Navio fort's Principia (headquarters building). The inscription on the altar says "To the goddess Arnomecta, Aelius Motio gladly, willingly, and deservedly fulfilled his vow." The altar is also on display in the Buxton Museum.

Surroundings 

Aquae Arnemetiae was at the intersection of two main Roman roads: Batham Gate and The Street. Batham Gate (Old English for "road to the bath town") is a Roman road from Templebrough Roman fort in South Yorkshire past Navio Roman Fort and onto Buxton. Part of the route of this old Roman road on Tideswell Moor is a protected Scheduled Monument. This was an important route for access to sites of lead production in the Peak District. There is still a road called Batham Gate road heading east out of Buxton. The Street road (Margary Number 71a) from Derventio (Derby) ran to Aquae Arnemetiae, followed in places today by the modern A515 road to the south of Buxton. The Street is still the name of the road in the Upper Goyt Valley that may have connected Buxton with Condate (Roman Northwich). There is plaque in a stone wall by The Street road near Arbor Low (at OS map location SK 1649 6232). It is marked "Aquae Armentiae Derventio" indicating the Buxton to Little Chester (Derby) Roman road. It is further inscribed: "Huius viae curam curatores viarum non susceperunt". This translates as "The road menders have not taken care of this road". Roman roads also led north to Mamucium (Manchester) and to Melandra fort, near Glossop (Margary Number 71b). Sections of agger from these two northbound rounds have been identified and excavated. There was also a Roman Road (Margary Number 713) between Buxton and Leek (which may be the Roman town of Chesterton) whose course joins the present A53 road towards Leek at Morridge Top.

The convergence of roads upon Aquae Armetiae, led Edward Tristram in 1916 to deduce the possible location of a fort in the town to the south of the market place by the current Bath Road.

Navio fort guarded the route northwest to the larger fort of Melandra. The large inscribed Centurial stone found at Navio in 1903 dates from the rebuilding of the fort in 154 BC by occupying soldiers from southwest France. The Centurial stone is on display in the Buxton Museum.

OS maps still mark Buxton with its Roman name of Aquae Arnemetiae.

References 

Ancient Roman baths in England
Hot springs of the United Kingdom
Roman towns and cities in England
Buxton
History of Derbyshire
Roman sites in Derbyshire