[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# South Dakota-class battleship (1939)

by  thick traverse bulkheads. The horizontal deck protection is made of three layers: a  STS weather deck (also called "bomb deck"), a combined  Class B and STS second deck, and a  STS splinter deck over the machinery spaces. Over the magazines, the splinter deck is replaced with a  STS third deck. 

The South Dakotas had considerable main battery turret protection; the turret face plates are  Class B, the sides are  Class A, the rear is  Class A, and the roof is  Class B. The barbettes are protected by Class A armor  thick along the centerline and  on the sides. Secondary battery turrets and handling spaces are protected by  STS. The conning tower is protected by  thick armor.

The underwater protection was an internal "bulge" that consists of four longitudinal torpedo bulkheads forming a multi-layered system designed to absorb the energy from an underwater explosion equivalent to 700 pounds of TNT (1.3 GJ). The protection system was designed for the torpedo bulkheads to deform and absorb energy while several compartments were liquid loaded in order to disrupt the gas bubble and stop fragments; the total system depth was . Notably, the armor belt itself, which extended to the triple bottom where it tapered to , formed the third torpedo bulkhead. The lower edge of the belt was welded to the triple bottom structure and the joint was reinforced with buttstraps due to the structural discontinuity from the slight knuckle. It was hoped that extending the armor belt to the triple bottom as one of the torpedo bulkheads can help increase the protection of the system compared to the one used by the previous North Carolina-class. However, caisson tests in 1939 indicated that the South Dakota system was less effective due to the rigidity of the armor belt causing force of the detonation to significantly displace the final holding bulkhead inwards despite remaining watertight. This and several further subscale caisson tests resulted in several modifications, including the system's liquid loading scheme; whereas the North Carolinas had the third and fourth outboard compartments liquid loaded, the South Dakotas had the outer two compartments filled with liquid, typically fuel oil, while the inner two compartments were void spaces; this was done to mitigate the listing potential from a torpedo strike. The system saw further strengthening and refinements in the subsequent Iowa class, which shared similar geometries.

Service

South Dakota

South Dakotas keel was laid on 5 July 1939 by the New York Shipbuilding Corporation of Camden, New Jersey. She was launched on 7 June 1941 and commissioned on 20 March 1942. She went on a shakedown cruise in June after her fitting out was complete. In August–September, the battleship voyaged from the Atlantic to the Pacific through the Panama Canal; she struck a coral reef soon after arriving in the Tonga Islands and had to sail to the Pearl Harbor Navy Yard for repairs, which took about a month. South Dakota was then assigned to escort the aircraft carrier  as part of Task Force (TF) 16; joined by TF 17 soon after, the combined fleet—now known as TF 61—was ordered to "make a sweep of the Santa Cruz Islands and then move southwest to block any Japanese forces approaching Guadalcanal." This led to the Battle of Santa Cruz, where in escorting Enterprise, South Dakota was credited with shooting down 26 Japanese planes. The battleship was hit once by a -bomb on Turret I during the action.

On 30 October 1942, South Dakota and the destroyer  collided while the latter was investigating a sonar contact with a submarine. Both ships were able to continue to Nouméa, where  repaired them. The battleship joined the North Carolina-class battleship  and four destroyers to form TF 64. The ships intercepted a Japanese bombardment force on the night of 14–15 November, and, in a battle now known as the Second Naval Battle of Guadalcanal, they damaged the cruisers  and  in addition to forcing the battleship  and destroyer  to be scuttled. During the battle, a power failure incapacitated South Dakota and she received considerable topside damage—42 shells hit the ship, knocking out radio communications and three fire control radars along with destroying the main radar set.

Partial repairs courtesy of ' crew allowed South Dakota to sail for New York; after the ship's arrival on 18 December 1942, she was given an overhaul and the battle damage was completely fixed. Departing the yard on 25 February 1943, South Dakota underwent sea trials before escorting  in North Atlantic operations until mid-April, when she joined the British Home Fleet. This deployment lasted until 1 August; the ship then traveled to Norfolk and then the Pacific, arriving at Efate on 14 September. Moving to Fiji on 7 November, she joined Battleship Divisions 8 and 9, which supported Allied forces in the Battle of Tarawa, among other battles. Along with five other battleships, she fired upon Nauru Island on 6 December 1943.