[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Strawberry Statement (film)

The Strawberry Statement is a 1970 American drama film set in the counterculture and student revolts of the 1960s.  The story is loosely based on the non-fiction book of the same name by James Simon Kunen (who has a cameo appearance in the film) about the Columbia University protests of 1968.

Plot
The film follows the radicalization of Simon, an ordinary student at a fictional urban university in San Francisco, California, which the actors refer to as "Western". Initially, Simon is indifferent to student protests going on around him.

Accidentally walking in while his roommate is having casual sex with another student, Simon protests to the roommate their time should be devoted to study so they can get good jobs and earn money. Coming back clothed, the female student refuses setting another date with the roommate because she'll be busy protesting. She explains the university plans to construct a gymnasium in an African-American neighborhood, causing conflict with the local African American population. She describes how students plan to occupy a university building in protest.

Simon later sees fellow student Linda and experiences love at first sight. He takes advantage of his position as photographer for the college newspaper to photograph her. Following Linda into the university building as the students are taking over, he joins the protest. Linda approaches Simon as he fools around in the bathroom, then asks him to help her rob a grocery store so the strikers can eat.

In a later student protest, Simon is arrested. He confesses to Linda he is not a radical like her, and does not want to "blow up the college building" after going all-out in high school to be admitted to the college in the first place. Linda later avers she can't date someone not equally dedicated to the movement. Nevertheless, she announces temporarily leaving college to decide for sure.

In the shower, a right-wing jock (George) beats up Simon, who decides to take advantage of the situation and use his injuries from to claim police brutality. Gaining attention, a friend tells him "a white version of page 43" of Simon's National Geographic is in the next room; this turns out to be an attractive young woman. Seeing his injured lip, she puts his hands on her right breast and asks if it feels better now. She then takes off her sweater, telling Simon "Did you know Lenin loved women with big breasts?" After quick flashes of her breasts, Simon confirms liking them, but asks her if she saw The Graduate. Replying no, she takes him between some filing cabinets and takes off his belt. To her surprise, Simon does not want people to see whatever it was she planned to do with him. Asking her if she would at least lock the door, she unconvincingly confirms she has and immediately opens some filing cabinets to conceal them from the crowd. Simon is worried, but she promises him no one will know. She then says she will give him something a "hero" like him deserves, ducks down and gives him an off-screen blowjob, zooming up on Che Guevara's famous poster staring in the air in its implacable expression.

After Linda returns, she announces her decision to be with Simon. They spend the rest of that day together – and, implicitly, the night. The following day, they make out in a park when a group of African Americans approaches them. The supposedly anti-racist white rebels fear for their lives. One African American drops Simon's camera to the ground and stomps it, but the group then leaves. A furious Simon meets the strikers, saying those they help are no different than the cops and the establishment, questioning why they should help those who disrespect and threaten him.

Simon re-thinks his comparison, after visiting George the jock, now a leftist, in the hospital, where he is in traction with his leg in a cast after right-wing jocks beat him up while cops watched. Simon goes to warn the dean's secretary to call off construction of the gymnasium or risk violence. A group of African American students then show up, proving Simon's previous generalization was wrong.

Eventually, the city police and the National Guard with bayoneted rifles arrive and crush the university building takeover using tear gas. With the strikers choking, the police and guardsmen pull haul the demonstrators from the building, beating them with batons.

With Linda being carried away kicking and screaming, Simon takes on a group of police all by himself and segments of his happier times in college flash before the viewers' eyes.

Cast