[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# St. Charles College (Maryland)

ls and vestments, along with thousands of priceless manuscripts and books were lost. The burned-out shell was pulled down, and the salvageable building materials were transported to Catonsville, where the college was quickly rebuilt. All that remained were standing ruins of the 1906 Recreation Hall.

After the fire, the heirs of the Carroll family requested that the  of land be returned, since it was not then used as a college, by selling off the land and dividing the profits among the family. The area was purchased by Howard County Planning Board member William Phillip Brendel, who ran Brendel Manor Park opening in 1942. Brendel's Manor Park (also known as Gospel Park) hosted the first Howard County Fair onsite in 1946 and 1950, with prison labor used to build structures. In the early 1970s, it was the home of Robert G. Millar's Christian Identity community. It has since been upzoned and developed into a suburban housing community. The property was subdivided several times, with Robert J. Lanceolott and Synergy Development Corp. developing over the historic ruins of the first college buildings in 1991 to build the "Terra Maria Community". The ruins of the old minor seminary's recreation hall and laundry are now located in the middle of Terra Maria Way circle with the grotto removed for a storm water retention pond.()

In 1969, St. Charles' High School Department with boarding school was closed and the junior college merged with the upper college of St. Mary's Seminary and University now on Roland Avenue and Belvedere Avenue/Northern Parkway in the Roland Park neighborhood of north Baltimore (having moved there from North Paca Street by St. Mary's Street in the old Seton Hill neighborhood to new landmark buildings of Beaux Arts/Classical Revival style architecture on a new expansive park-like campus in 1929). The old St. Charles second campus was renamed "St. Mary's Seminary College" and continued its educational programs, now opened up to ecumenical participation.

In 1977 the college closed and the property was sold to Erickson Retirement Communities, Inc.; it is presently known as Charlestown Retirement Community.

St. Charles College Historic District

St. Charles College Historic District is a historic Roman Catholic church seminary and national historic district at Catonsville, Baltimore County, Maryland, United States. The main complex consists of six interconnected buildings, three of which form the central group: Chapel, Administration Building, and Old Dormitory. Each has a rusticated stone first floor and upper levels of buff brick with stone trim in the Italian Renaissance style.  The complex includes three additional buildings: the Dining Hall, connected by a passageway; the Convent, physically attached to the Dining Hall, and the Power House.

It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1983.

Notable alumni
    
Patrick Joseph Byrne, Maryknoll missionary who served as Apostolic Delegate to Korea
 John F. Collins (1872–1962), Mayor of Providence, Rhode Island 1939–1941
George Sterling, poet and playwright
Thomas Frederick Price, cofounder of Maryknoll
John Surratt, conspirator in the assassination plot of 16th President Abraham Lincoln in 1865
Louis J. Weichmann

Notes

References

External links

, including undated photo, at Maryland Historical Trust

Defunct Catholic universities and colleges in the United States
Defunct private universities and colleges in Maryland
Catholic seminaries in the United States
Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in Maryland
Properties of religious function on the National Register of Historic Places in Maryland
University and college buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Maryland
Buildings and structures in Baltimore County, Maryland
Educational institutions established in 1848
Educational institutions disestablished in 1977
Catholic universities and colleges in Maryland
1848 establishments in Maryland
National Register of Historic Places in Baltimore County, Maryland
1977 disestablishments in Maryland