[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Denia, Haifa

ean. Parallelly stretching on the eastern bank of the highway, the construction of Ramat Almogi was commenced in mid-1990s and has continued into the 21st century, with more multiple-tenant units and condominiums, rare to Denia's older parts. It typically attracts younger families.

Ramat Aba Hushi 

With its denomination as "Aba Hushi Height" (Ramat Aba Hushi), at 470 meters above sea level this area of about 1.5 kilometers north-south along the main artery is today home to the campus of the Haifa University. Back in the early 70s, when the area of the Carmal National Park had just been demarcated by the state leaving the outlines of Haifa's jurisdiction sharply coinciding the newly built Denia, it was then-mayor Aba Hushi who managed to redeem a narrow strip from the park-assigned woodland on Mount Tlalim back into within the city's borders, and expropriated it from its recreational designation in order to found Haifa's second university, the first being the Technion in Nave Sha'anan. Today, this section is mainly a commuting hub for the school's over-17,000 students and staff as well as citizens frequenting the various amenities, such as Israel's largest academic library, with only residents being the students who stay at the dormitories located at the campus’ southeastern tip. To the north of the campus is the venerable IBM Haifa Research Laboratory.

Savionei Denia 
Savionei Denia ("Denia Ragwort") is one of Haifa's very few residential tower neighborhoods, as well as one of the city's newest, with prestige highrises that have been erected east of the Aba Hushi thoroughfare since the 1990s onwards. The buildings, with large apartments overlooking the Haifa Bay, are set on a steep forest slope that has been heavily thinned out, north of the university, and those of them that reach farther east are eventually met by the identical tower blocks of the city of Nesher.

Schools 
Pupils from the borough are regularly registered for the Albert Einstein Elementary School, which is situated just at the border of Ramat Almogi and Ahuza; and later for the Rothschild–Aliance High School, at the border with Nave Sha'anan.

The Albert Einstein Elementary School was founded in 1977. It has 545 students enrolled in grades 1-6, with teaching team that includes 33 teachers and 4 administrators. The school contains a library, computer lab, English training lab, mathematics lab, gym and science laboratory.

The school is central part of the local community and is the site of annual gatherings and festivals as well as the local Independence Day festival. The Ministry of Education and the local municipality regulate the school's curriculum and provide it with administrative support.

During the wave of migrants from the former Soviet Union to Israel in 1990-1993, the Einstein school was pivotal in absorbing new migrant children in the southern neighbourhoods of Haifa.

Notable residents 

 Yona Yahav, Mayor of Haifa
 Yael Rom, first female pilot of the Israeli Air Force
 Aliza Shenhar, president of the Max Stern Emek Yezreel College
 Danny Katz, youth whose unresolved murder affair generated a national and international interest
 Robi Shapira, businessman and owner of Hapoel Haifa F.C.
 Moshe Shahal, Member of the Knesset
 Eyal Berkovic, footballer
 Dan Shechtman, Nobel laureate scientist
 Eli Guttman, manager of Israel's national football team

See also 

 Mount Carmel forest fire (1989)
 Mount Carmel forest fire (2010)

Notes 

Neighborhoods of Haifa