[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Torture in the United States

There are cases, both documented and alleged, that involve the usage of torture by members of the United States government, military, law enforcement agencies, intelligence agencies, health care services, and other public organizations both in and out of the country.

Torture is illegal in the United States. The United States came under scrutiny for controversial practices, both from foreign and domestic sources, following the Military Commissions Act of 2006.

After the U.S. dismissed United Nations concerns about torture in 2006, one UK judge observed 'America's idea of what is torture ... does not appear to coincide with that of most civilized nations'.

While the term "torture" has a variety of definitions and cultural contexts, this article addresses only those practices qualifying as torture under the definition of that term articulated in the codified law (primarily statutory) and case law of the United States.

The Human Rights Measurement Initiative gives the US a score of 3.6 out of 10 for the right to freedom from torture and ill-treatment.

Legislation, regulation, and treaties regarding torture 

Torture is illegal and punishable within U.S. territorial bounds. Prosecution of abuse occurring on foreign soil, outside of usual U.S. territorial jurisdiction, is difficult.

Prohibition under domestic law

Bill of Rights 

Torture as a punishment falls under the cruel and unusual punishment clause of the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The text of the Amendment states that:

Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.

The U.S. Supreme Court has held since at least the 1890s that punishments which involved torture are forbidden under the Eighth Amendment.

18 U.S.C. § 2340 (the "Torture Act")

An act of torture committed outside the United States by a U.S. national or a non-U.S. national who is present in the United States is punishable under . The definition of torture used is as follows:

Military Commissions Act of 2006

In October 2006, the United States enacted the Military Commissions Act of 2006, authorizing the President to conduct military tribunals of enemy combatants and to hold them indefinitely without judicial review under the terms of habeas corpus. Testimony coerced through humiliating or degrading treatment would be admissible in the tribunals. Amnesty International and others have criticized the Act for approving a system that uses torture, destroying the mechanisms for judicial review created by Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, and creating a parallel legal system below international standards. Part of the act was an amendment that retroactively rewrote the War Crimes Act, effectively making policymakers (i.e., politicians and military leaders), and those applying policy (i.e., Central Intelligence Agency interrogators and U.S. soldiers), no longer subject to legal prosecution under U.S. law for what, before the amendment, was defined as a war crime, such as torture. Because of that, critics describe the MCA as an amnesty law for crimes committed during the War on Terror.

U.S. Army Field Manuals

In late 2006, the military issued updated U.S. Army Field Manuals on intelligence collection (FM 2-22.3. Human Intelligence Collector Operations, September 2006) and counterinsurgency (FM 3-24. Counterinsurgency, December 2006). Both manuals reiterated that "no person in the custody or under the control of DOD, regardless of nationality or physical location, shall be subject to torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment, in accordance with and as defined in U.S. law." Specific techniques prohibited in the intelligence collection manual include:
 Forcing the detainee to be naked, perform sexual acts, or pose in a sexual manner;
 Hooding, that is, placing hoods or sacks over the head of a detainee; using duct tape over the eyes;
 Applying beatings, electric shock, burns, or other forms of physical pain;
 Waterboarding;
 Using military working dogs;
 Inducing hypothermia or heat injury;
 Conducting mock executions;
 Depriving the detainee of necessary food, water, sleep, or medical care.

Prohibition under international law