[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Chaffee Maneuver Training Center

ility was turned into a prison, encircled with miles of concertina wire and 2,000 heavily-armed federal troops. The riot was a major issue in Frank D. White's victory over Governor Bill Clinton in the November 1980 gubernatorial election. Over two years, Fort Chaffee processed 25,390 Cuban refugees.

In 1987, the Joint Readiness Training Center (JRTC) began training soldiers at Chaffee. In 1993 the JRTC was transferred to Fort Polk, Louisiana and in 1995, the Base Realignment and Closure Commission recommended the closure of Fort Chaffee. The recommendation was approved with the condition that minimum essential ranges, facilities, and training areas were maintained as a Reserve component training enclave. On September 28, 1995, Fort Chaffee became a subinstallation of Fort Sill. In late 1995, the federal government declared  of Fort Chaffee's  to be surplus and turned the land over to the state, while the remaining  were turned over to the Arkansas National Guard for use as a training facility.

On September 27, 1997 command of Fort Chaffee was transferred from the U.S. Army to the Arkansas Army National Guard when the U.S. Army garrison was deactivated, with Fort Chaffee subsequently becoming the Chaffee Maneuver Training Center for Light Combat Forces, and later simply Chaffee Joint Maneuver Training Center. The Arkansas Air National Guard stationed at Ebbing Air National Guard Base in Fort Smith has used the fort's Razorback Range for target practice with their A-10s until January 2014 when their mission changed, but Razorback Range remained under the control of the 188th Wing.

On April 15, 2014 the Arkansas National Guard's new Fort Chaffee Combined Arms Collective Training Facility opened; the $26 million training center consisting of 18 buildings is meant to recreate a small city and includes 189 cameras.

In September 2017, the Arkansas Air National Guard at Ebbing Air National Guard Base transferred Razorback Range back to the control of Chaffee Joint Maneuver Training Center.

Redevelopment
In 1997 the Fort Chaffee Redevelopment Authority was established to redevelop the  acres that were turned over to the state. This included demolishing more than 700 buildings and rezoning land. Redevelopment of the base began shortly after land was turned over, and the redevelopment authority is overseeing a number of residential, commercial, and industrial projects in what is known as 'Chaffee Crossing'.

After property transfers were complete and with minimal military staff permanently stationed, the Chaffee Maneuver Training Center was declared an open post. The gatehouses were abandoned, and most of the fencing was removed. Military police patrols were discontinued, and emergency services turned over to the city of Barling, the Arkansas State Police, and Arkansas Highway Patrol Troop H. After the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks all Army installations in the U.S. were declared closed posts, and the center again took over emergency services.

On January 6, 2005, ground was broken for the  Janet Huckabee Arkansas River Valley Nature Center. In September 2005 Fort Chaffee housed evacuees after Hurricane Katrina struck Louisiana. The empty barracks were converted into temporary housing for more than 10,000 refugees from Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, and other areas affected by the hurricane. Many of the evacuees that were sponsored or temporarily housed at Fort Chaffee have since decided to make Fort Smith their new home, which has brought a slight increase to the city's economy.

In September 2011, a rectangular block of the base, containing 44 World War II-era barracks buildings, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.  Bounded by Terry and Ellis Streets and Darby and Ward Avenues, these barracks were built 1941-42 to house two tank destroyer battalions.  The district was slightly enlarged in 2015.

During 2013, Chaffee has seen a mix of developments, with the announcement of a new 70 store shopping center along Arkansas Highways 22 and 59, the creation of the Arkansas College of Osteopathic Medicine, an expansion of Umarex and the construction of several large housing developments. The area is also home to manufacturing facilities operated by Graphic Packaging and Mars Petcare. A wind turbine manufacturing building owned by Mitsubishi was never utilized and the more than 400 jobs planned faded when economics changed within the wind energy industry.

In May 2014 ArcBest Corp announced construction of an office building and data center to add an estimated 975 corporate jobs by 2021.

 FCRA is down to about  remaining for development, of which about 25% is intended for residential development, roughly 40% to 50% is targeted for commercial and retail development, while the remaining land is intended for industrial development.