[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gian Marco

Gian Marco Javier Zignago Alcóver (born 17 August 1970) is a Peruvian musician and actor. He has won the Latin Grammy Award for the Best Singer-Songwriter Album three times. First in 2005 for his album Resucitar, in 2011 for his album Días Nuevos, and in 2012 for his album 20 Años. Gian Marco was named UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador in Peru.

His mother is the Peruvian actress and singer María Regina Alcóver Ureta, and his father was the late Peruvian composer and singer Javier Óscar Florencio Zignago Viñas, known in the musical world as Joe Danova.

Biography

Childhood beginnings
Gian Marco was born in Lima, Peru on 17 August 1970. His mother is actress and singer María Regina Alcóver Ureta, while his father is composer and singer Javier Óscar Florencio Zignago Viñas, also known as Joe Danova. As the son of artists, Gian Marco was introduced to music at very early age. The art surrounded him during his childhood. Gian Marco grew up listening to the songs of his father, and watching his mother perform in theater.

As a child he traveled with his parents and learned to love the life style of an artist. At age 12, Gian Marco sang for the first time on television in the Argentine TV show Domingos Gigantes (Giant Sundays), broadcast by Channel 9 in Buenos Aires under the direction of Orlando Marconi. A year later, Gian Marco sang in Caracas on the TV show La Revista de los Sábados (The Saturday Magazine) impressing viewers that enjoyed a thirteen-year-old child singing a popular song titled "Eva Maria". At the age of six he recorded a 45 rpm together with his father entitled "Navidad Es" ("Christmas Is").

Gian Marco attended elementary school, middle school, and high school at the Colegio Santa Margarita located in Monterrico, a middle-class neighborhood in the district of Santiago de Surco, in Lima. He played the guitar and sang in all school activities. In 1981, at age 11, Gian Marco recorded a song for the musical Papito Piernas Largas (Daddy Long Legs). His mother also participated in the play. During his youth, Gian Marco participated in a series of artistic events, singing and acting, developing his talents and preparing for what would become a successful career.

After finishing school, at the age of 18, Gian Marco traveled to Santiago de Chile to pursue a graphic design career. Although things were going well for him in the graphic design field, Gian Marco continued to feel the pull of a music career. To prove himself as an artist, he began playing in the most popular venues in Santiago and Viña del Mar where he began to make a name for himself.

First album
A year and a half later he returned to Lima and one of his songs classified for the Peruvian version of the Festival OTI 1989 and his first contract with a record label which proyected him to Chile and Bolivia as well as doing theater and alternating in the telenovela "Velo negro, velo blanco with Braulio Castillo Jr. and Guatavo Rojo. He managed to capture the attention of the press, being the most publicized artist at the event. It was there that Discos Independientes proposed recording his first album. At the beginning of 1990 his first production hit the national record market with the title Gian Marco: Historias that achieved hits as "Domitila" and "Mírame" ("Look at me"), under the musical direction of Pepe Ortega.

In 1992 he recorded his second album, production with the title Personal, produced in Santiago, Chile by Pepe Ortega. From this recording the songs "Te Extrañaré" ("I Will Miss You") and "Dame un Beso" ("Give Me a Kiss") made the charts that year. In September 1993 he won first place in the national version of the Festival OTI, and gained the right to represent Perú in the "XXII edition of the International Festival OTI" with his song "Volvamos a Empezar" ("Let's Start Over"). The International Festival took place in Valencia, Spain.

Television and national recognition
In the mid to late 1990s he came back with other successful productions. He began to dedicate himself to composing songs, and he was called to conduct one of the most popular game shows, Campaneando, with Bruno Pinasco. Conducting this program was crucial in gaining the recognition of the wider Peruvian public. His television appearance combined with a prolific period of musical activity. He composed and recorded the albums Entre la arena y la luna, (Between the Sand and the Moon) (1994), Señora, Cuénteme (Lady, Tell Me) (1994), and Al Quinto Día (On the Fifth Day) (1997). His fourth album, Señora, Cuénteme, is a tribute to canción criolla in which he affirms with his music the appreciation that he has for the feeling of native peoples like those in Perú.