[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Indian Foreign Service

ior MEA official, this was not the first time such appointments had occurred, mentioning past instances from the Interpreters' cadre and Cypher sub-cadre, and also recalled a previous appointment from the Stenographers' cadre as an ambassador in North Korea.

Notable Indian Foreign Service Officers 

Ajay Bisaria
Asaf Ali, former Governor of Odisha
Abhay K
Abid Hasan, a former officer of Indian National Army
Arundhati Ghose
Benegal Rama Rau, 4th Governor of Reserve Bank of India
Brajesh Mishra, 1st National Security Advisor
Binay Ranjan Sen, Director General of FAO (1956–67)
C. B. Muthamma
Chokila Iyer, 23rd Foreign Secretary of India
Gautam Bambawale, former ambassador to China and Pakistan
Gopalaswami Parthasarathy, former Vice-chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University
Hamid Ansari, former Vice President of India (2007–17)
Hardeep Singh Puri, current cabinet minister (2014–present)
Harsh Vardhan Shringla, former Foreign Secretary of India
J N Dixit, 2nd National Security Advisor & former Foreign Secretary
Kamlesh Sharma, former Commonwealth Secretary-General
Kanwal Sibal, former Foreign Secretary
Kewal Singh, former Foreign Secretary
K. M. Panikkar
K.P.S. Menon
K. R. Narayanan, 10th President of India and 9th Vice President of India
K. Raghunath, former Foreign Secretary
Lakshmi Kant Jha, 8th Governor of Reserve Bank of India
Lalit Mansingh
Maharaja Krishna Rasgotra
Mani Shankar Aiyar
Meira Kumar, 15th Speaker of the Lok Sabha (2009–14)
Nalin Surie
Natarajan Krishnan, President of the UNSC
Natwar Singh, former Minister of External Affairs
Nirupama Rao, former Foreign Secretary
Pankaj Saran, former Deputy National Security Advisor
Ranjan Mathai, former Foreign Secretary
Raveesh Kumar
Ronen Sen, former Ambassador to USA, UK, Russia, Germany and South Korea
Ruchira Kamboj, 1st women Permanent Representatives of India to the UN 
Salman Haider, former Foreign Secretary
Shashank
Shivshankar Menon, 4th National Security Advisor
Shyam Saran, 26th Foreign Secretary of India
Subimal Dutt, 3rd Foreign Secretary of India
S Jaishankar, Minister of External Affairs (2019–present)
Sujatha Singh
Syed Akbaruddin, former India's Permanent Representative to the UN
T. N. Kaul
T. S. Tirumurti
Venu Rajamony
Vijay K. Nambiar, Chef de Cabinet of the United Nations (2007–12)
Vijay Keshav Gokhale, 32nd Foreign Secretary of India
Vinay Mohan Kwatra

Vikas Swarup, eminent writer
Vikram Misri, Deputy National Security Advisor
Yashvardhan Kumar Sinha, current Chief Information Commissioner of India

Notes

References

External links

Official website of Foreign Service Institute India

Central Civil Services (India)
Foreign relations of India
Indian Foreign Service