[Source: PubMed]

24. Scand J Work Environ Health. 1999 Jun;25(3):296-300.

Collaboration between developing and developed countries and between developing 
countries in occupational health research and surveillance.

Partanen TJ(1), Hogstedt C, Ahasan R, Aragón A, Arroyave ME, Jeyaratnam J, 
Kurppa K, Loewenson R, Lundberg I, Ngowi AV, Mbakaya CF, Stayner L, Steenland K, 
Weiderpass E, Wesseling C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Finnish Institute of 
Occupational Health, Helsinki. timo.partanen@occuphealth.fi

Comment in
    Scand J Work Environ Health. 1999 Aug;25(4):305-7. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.439.

Collaborative occupational health and safety studies between counterparts in 
developing and developed countries and between developing countries have 
demonstrated their potential for improving occupational health and safety. Such 
collaboration in occupational health and safety is encouraged in the development 
of infrastructure in research empowerment and capacity building. This action 
includes the setting of priorities, the identification and documentation of 
problems, sponsorship, data bases and surveillance systems, technical support, 
methodology, publishing, research and training programs, controlled 
intervention, information exchange, and networking. Examples of priorities in 
occupational health and safety in the developing world include the informal 
sector (informally hired and independent workers), temporary work, pesticides, 
accidents, dusts, carcinogens, solvents, ergonomics, women and child labor, 
human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiencey syndrome (HIV/AIDS), and 
transfer of hazardous materials and technologies. The sustainability of 
occupational health and safety structures and functions in the developing 
countries is a primary concern. Socioethical principles emphasize local, 
national, mutual and global gains. Examples of collaboration are given. 
Pervasive problems and strategies toward their solution are highlighted.

PMID: 10450783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]