[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Evelyn Gandy

National Convention and supported the nomination of Jimmy Carter as the party's presidential candidate. She also served as acting governor of Mississippi for a cumulative total of 248 days when Governor Cliff Finch was out of the state. She left office on January 16, 1980.

Gubernatorial campaigns 

Gandy sought the office of Governor of Mississippi in the 1979 election, campaigning on a platform of economic growth and government reform. In the Democratic primary she faced William F. Winter, John Arthur Eaves, and three other candidates. Winter denounced the "corruption and mismanagement" of Governor Finch's administration and linked Finch's troubles with Gandy. In the first primary Gandy earned about 30 percent of the vote, while Winter received 25 percent. Winter was buoyed by his image as a moderate, professional, experienced public official which stood in sharp contrast to the public's perception of Finch's time in office as haphazard. Gandy's standing was harmed by her association with Finch and the fact that she was a woman. To capitalize on the latter factor, Winter's campaign organization attempted to craft an image of "toughness" for him, and released television commercials that showed him posing with tanks at Camp Shelby and firing a gun at a Mississippi Highway Patrol weapons range. She also refused an offer to debate Winter, citing schedule conflicts, creating doubts about her political abilities. Winter won the runoff with 57 percent of the vote. Gandy subsequently rejected an offer from Winter to take a position in his administration, but several months later was hired as the director of the Office of Human Resources Planning in the Department of Mental Health. By 1981 she was Deputy for Human Resources with the Department of Health.

Gandy ran again for gubernatorial office in 1983, facing Attorney General William Allain, businessman Mike Sturdivant, and two other candidates in the Democratic primary. She made more effort to appear charismatic and friendly, altering her appearance and hiring a professional campaign strategist for the first time in her political career. She also broadcast advertisements which described her as "tough". Her platform included education reform, controlling unemployment, expanding the National Guard, improved benefits for the elderly and disabled, and opposition to in-state radioactive waste disposal. Her opponents attacked her by linking her to her previous segregationist positions, with leaflets and a reprint of a 1963 ad showing her connections to Senator Bilbo distributed. Gandy initially reacted by expressing dismay at the strategy, before saying in a press conference that "[d]efense of segregation 20, 30, or 40 years ago was wrong" and that her previous statements "certainly do not reflect" her current views on race. She attempted to garner sympathy from black voters by pointing to discrimination she had faced because of her sex. Sturdivant aired television commercials which questioned whether a woman should lead the state, leading Gandy to denounce them as "insulting the women of Mississippi and the voters of Mississippi." She led in the first Democratic primary with 38 percent of the vote. In her runoff with Allain she authorized the broadcasting of attack ads against Allain, characterizing him as unlikely to cooperate with the legislature, a misogynist, and a "one issue candidate". He won with 52.3 percent of the vote. Journalist Bill Minor later said of Gandy, "She was a victim of the syndrome in Mississippi that women would not be elevated to high political office. Apparently, lieutenant governor is the ceiling."

Later life 
Following her loss in 1983, Gandy returned to legal practice, joining the firm of her friend Carroll Ingram in Hattiesburg in 1984. She rejected a suggestion from her friends that she seek gubernatorial office again in 1987 but remained publicly active in women's organizations and openly encouraged women to pursue careers as they saw fit. In 1994 she was hired as the director of legal services for Central Euro Telekom, a telecommunications company. In 1997 the American Bar Association bestowed on her the Margaret Brent Award for expanding opportunities for female attorneys. She remained involved in Mississippi Democratic politics until her death.

Gandy never married, instead enjoying the companionship of her sister, Frances. She was a distant cousin of politician Edwin L. Pittman. Gandy died on December 23, 2007, at her home near Hattiesburg after suffering from a lengthy bout of progressive supranuclear palsy. Her body lay in state in the rotunda of the Mississippi State Capitol, the first time such an honor had been granted to a woman. A memorial service was held for her in the rotunda on December 27 and a funeral was held the following day at Main Street United Methodist Church in Hattiesburg. She was buried at the city's Roseland Park Cemetery.