[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Enhanced interrogation techniques

s of the potential warrant came to light. Bush has traveled to Canada, but the Canadian government shut down the prosecution in advance of his arrest.  The Center has filed a grievance with the United Nations for Canada's failure to enforce the Convention Against Torture, on which action is pending.

Consequence of failing to prosecute
Without any prosecutions the possibility remains that a future presidential administration could claim torture is legal and revive its practice. In February 2016, several leading U.S. presidential candidates openly argued for reintroducing torture. Including President Donald Trump who expressed his desire to bring back waterboarding. 
The U.S. reluctance to punish torturers has set back the fight against torture worldwide, according to Juan E. Méndez, the United Nations' special rapporteur on torture.

Prosecution of John Kiriakou
Former CIA officer John Kiriakou in 2007 was the first official within the U.S. government to confirm the use of waterboarding of al-Qaeda prisoners as an interrogation technique, which he described as torture.

On October 22, 2012, Kiriakou pleaded guilty to disclosing classified information about a fellow CIA officer that connected the covert operative to a specific operation. He was sentenced to 30 months in prison on January 25, 2013.

European Court of Human Rights decisions
On July 24, 2014, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Poland violated the European Convention on Human Rights when it cooperated with the US, allowing the CIA to hold and torture Abu Zubaydah and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri on its territory in 2002–2003. The court ordered the Polish government to pay each of the men 100,000 euros in damages. It also awarded Abu Zubaydah 30,000 euros to cover his costs.

On May 31, 2018, the ECHR ruled that Romania and Lithuania also violated the rights of Abu Zubaydah and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri in 2003–2005 and in 2005–2006 respectively, and Lithuania and Romania were ordered to pay 100,000 euros in damages each to Abu Zubaydah and Abd al-Nashiri.

See also

Bagram torture and prisoner abuse
Behavioral Science Consultation Team
Bush Six
Command responsibility
Criticism of the War on Terror
Doublespeak
Extraordinary rendition
Five techniques
High-Value Interrogation Group
Human rights
Iraq prison abuse scandals
Kuala Lumpur War Crimes Commission
Law of war
Panetta Review
Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture
Torture and the United States
War crime
Subpoena ad testificandum

References

Works cited

Further reading

Grey, Stephen (2007) Ghost Plane: The True Story of the CIA Torture Program
Jones, Ishmael (2008, 2010) The Human Factor: Inside the CIA's Dysfunctional Intelligence Culture Encounter Books, New York. .
Levi, William Ranney (2009) "Interrogation's Law"
McCoy, Alfred W. (2006) A Question Of Torture: CIA Interrogation from the Cold War to the War on Terror
U.S. Government, Coercive Interrogation: U.S. Views on Torture 1963–2003

External links

Human Rights First; Tortured Justice: Using Coerced Evidence to Prosecute Terrorist Suspects (2008)
Experiments in Torture: Evidence of Human Subject Research and Experimentation in the "Enhanced" Interrogation Programmirror  A White Paper by Physicians for Human Rights, June 2010
Interrogation techniques at 'Britain's Abu Ghraib' revealed
Ex-US spy Anthony Shaffer talks about interrogation techniques during his posting in Afghanistan on The State We're In radio show, March 2011

2000s crimes
American phraseology
Cover-ups
George W. Bush administration controversies
Human rights abuses in the United States
Interrogation techniques
Physical torture techniques
Psychological torture techniques
Propaganda in the United States
Torture in the United States
Torture-related organizations
United States war crimes
Euphemisms