[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Milan Lukić

an amendment to the indictment would prejudice the right of the accused to have enough time to mount a defence.

Prison life
Lukić had been held at The Hague since 21 February 2006. In February 2014, Lukić was transferred to Tartu Vangla prison in Estonia where he is currently serving his sentence.

In March 2015, Lukić filed a "human rights" complaint requesting to be transferred to Scheveningen detention unit then relocate to a prison in Germany, claiming "psychological pain" from isolation due to his inability to speak Estonian. He also stated the distance from his wife and 1 year old son, who both live in Germany, as a further "aggravating circumstance".

The prosecution requested the Tribunal to dismiss, in its entirety, Lukić's request stating that his human rights have not been violated and he was never "denied the possibility" to communicate or meet with his family citing 11 family visits in 2014.

In December 2020 the Hague Tribunal rejected a request by Lukic for a revision of his life sentence.

Confession of a Hague Prisoner
On 29 July 2011, the parish house of the Cathedral of Saint Sava in Belgrade hosted an event to promote the launch of Milan Lukić's book the Confession of a Hague Prisoner (Ispovest haškog sužnja) and was attended by several priests of the Serbian Orthodox Church and by many of Lukić's supporters. The Humanitarian Law Center in Belgrade urged that the "institutions and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to condemn publicly the use of the Parish House of the Cathedral of Saint Sava in Belgrade for the launch of a book by the convicted war criminal Milan Lukić during which priests of the Serbian Orthodox Church took part in the eulogisation of a war criminal responsible for some of the most terrible crimes against humanity." The Humanitarian Law Center demanded "that the Patriarch reveal the names of the priests who took part in this public event and explain to the public why a religious building whose construction was paid for by the state and many individual citizens has been used to celebrate a convicted war criminal who burned women and children alive."

Lukić's book was published by the Serbian Radical Party with an initial run of 1,000 copies. A second edition followed shortly thereafter, with a run of 10,000 copies.

On 11 October 2011, the Valjevo Municipal Assembly denied the Serbian Radical Party's request to use the great hall of the local parliament building as a space to promote Lukić's book on the grounds that it was revealed that the book's author was in fact Rajko Đurđević and not Milan Lukić. After the failed request the Serbian Radical Party promoted the book at Valjevo's city square.

See also

Višegrad massacres
Sjeverin massacre
Vilina Vlas
Bakira Hasečić
Štrpci massacre
Uzamnica camp
Mitar Vasiljević
Željko Lelek
Momir Savić

References

External links
 "Lukić Set to Face Trial for Visegrad Terror" by Nerma Jelacic, Institute for War and Peace Reporting, 10 August 2005
"Lukic Murdered 410 Bosniaks and One Serb!" by Edina Kamenica, Oslobodjenje, Sarajevo, March 22, 2001
"Has anyone seen Milan Lukic?" by Anes Alic and Jen Tracy
"Vilina Vlas, The Fairy's Hair", "Warzone" TV documentary about the Vilina Vlas rapings by Sotiris Danezis for the "Warzone" programme (Mega Channel, Greece) (in Greek).

1967 births
Living people
Bosnia and Herzegovina people imprisoned abroad
People from Foča
Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Army of Republika Srpska soldiers
People convicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina convicted of crimes against humanity
Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina convicted of war crimes