[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Benoît Cheyrou

Benoît Benjamin Cheyrou (born 3 May 1981) is a French former professional footballer who played as a central midfielder, and often acted as a deep-lying playmaker for the attack. He is the assistant manager of French amateur club La Salesienne de Paris.

He was known for his vision, distribution, and ability to provide assists. He is a former French youth international having represented his nation at under-19, under-20, and under-21 level. His older brother is the former French international Bruno Cheyrou, who formerly played for English club Liverpool, and is currently a sports broadcaster. The younger Cheyrou earned his first call up to the national team on 25 February 2010, but unlike his older brother, never made his senior debut for France throughout his playing career.

Career

Early career
Cheyrou began his career at his hometown club Racing Club de France, which served as a family tradition among the Cheyrou household as his grandfather, father, and older brother trained there as young players as well. It is also the place where Cheyrou's father met his mother. During his time as a youth at the club, Cheyrou often played against the Paris Saint-Germain youths who were considered more rich and professional than Racing, which led to Cheyrou developing a minor grudge with the Parisian giants. Following Bruno's departure to RC Lens, the younger Cheyrou stayed behind until securing a move to Division 2 club Lille. That same year, his elder brother joined him at the club.

Lille
Cheyrou trained in the club's youth system for two years before earning promotion to the senior team for the 1999–2000 season. He made his professional debut on 3 September 1999 appearing as a substitute in a 2–0 victory over Toulouse. Four days later, he made his first professional start playing the entire match in a 1–0 victory over Wasquehal. Cheyrou remained a fixture in the team until the end of the year before suffering injury. He returned to the team for the 2000–01 season with Lille now playing in Division 1. Cheyrou only made 8 league appearances as he was again limited due to injury. The next season saw Cheyrou's appearances increased to 23 league matches with the midfielder also making four appearances in the UEFA Cup. Following the departure of his brother to Liverpool, Cheyrou's importance in the team increased. On 5 October 2002, he scored his first professional goal in a 3–0 victory over Marseille after having appeared as a substitute three minutes prior. After alternating between the bench and first eleven, by mid-season, Cheyrou became a fixture in the starting eleven helping Lille finish in 5th position, thus qualifying for the UEFA Intertoto Cup. In his final season with Lille, Cheyrou appeared in 27 league matches scoring one goal, which came against Guingamp in a 3–1 defeat.

Auxerre
In 2004, Cheyrou signed with up and coming club AJ Auxerre who were led by former player Guy Roux. In his first season with the club, who were also playing in Europe, he was inserted as a starter alongside fellow midfielders Philippe Violeau and Lionel Mathis. Cheyrou appeared in 29 league matches starting 28 of them. He scored his only league goal of the season in a 2–1 loss to Lyon as Auxerre finished 8th, three points out of the European places. In the UEFA Cup, Cheyrou appeared in all 8 matches contested as Auxerre reached the quarterfinals where they lost 4–2 on aggregate to Russian club CSKA Moscow. Cheyrou scored his first career European goal in the Round of 16 second leg match against Dutch club Ajax. The goal evened the match 2–2 on aggregate and the club advance 3–2 following an 86th-minute goal from Mathis. On 4 June 2005, Cheyrou claimed the first major honour of his career following the club's 2–1 victory over Sedan in the 2005 edition of the Coupe de France final. Cheyrou played the entire match as Auxerre earned the title following a 90th minute game-winning goal from Bonaventure Kalou.

The 2005–06 season saw the arrival of the Dane Thomas Kahlenberg, who Cheyrou formed an impressive partnership with. Cheyrou appeared in a career-high 35 matches for the season and also scored two goals, both in shutout victories over Sochaux and Nantes. Despite suffering early elimination at the hands of Bulgarian club Levski Sofia in the 2005–06 UEFA Cup, the club rebounded in the league finishing in sixth position and, as a result, qualified for the UEFA Intertoto Cup. During the Ligue 1 2006–07 season, Cheyrou was named captain of the team and scored in back-to-back matches in September with Auxerre winning both matches. The club reached the UEFA Cup for the third straight season reaching the group stage where they finished a disappointing 4th place in their group. Auxerre also finished out of Europe in the league standings, which prompted an exodus of players looking to continue playing in UEFA competitions, which included Cheyrou.

Marseille