[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eugene Parks Wilkinson

Eugene Parks "Dennis" Wilkinson (August 10, 1918 – July 11, 2013) was a United States Navy officer. He was selected for three historic command assignments. The first, in 1954, was as the first commanding officer of , the world's first nuclear-powered submarine. The second was as the first commanding officer of , America's first nuclear surface ship. The third was in 1980 when he was chosen as the first President and CEO of the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) from which he retired in 1984.

Biography and military career

Early life
Wilkinson, born in August 1918 in Long Beach, California, the son of Dennis William and Daisy Parks Wilkinson. He attended Holtville, California, High School and San Diego State College. He graduated from the latter in 1938 with a Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in chemistry. He taught chemistry there for a year. He also filled in and taught a course in mathematics. During this year he attended the University of Southern California. The next year he had a teaching fellowship in chemistry at USC. During those two years he completed all of the course work for a doctorate, but never did a thesis or received any graduate degree. Commissioned as an ensign in the U.S. Naval Reserve on 12 December 1940, he was transferred to the regular U.S. Navy on 28 August 1946.

Early career
Wilkinson's commissioned service began in the heavy cruiser , in which he had duty in the engineering department until December 1941.

World War II
Wilkinson was detached in San Francisco, with orders to the Submarine School, New London, Connecticut, for instruction in submarines. After completing the course in March 1942, he served in the engineering department of the submarine  in April and May, after which he was ordered to the submarine . After the commissioning of that boat in July, he served on board for one year, making four war patrols. He had commissary, engineering, and electrical duties. During his time in the crew the submarine participated in the North African operation (Algeria-Morocco landings).

From June 1943 to October 1944 Wilkinson was in the crew of the submarine  which participated in four war patrols, including the Truk attack and the Battle of Leyte Gulf. Wilkinson was awarded the Silver Star for his service aboard Darter. Officially detached from Darter in November 1944, following her loss the previous month, he returned to the United States. From January to March 1945 he was an instructor at the Submarine School, New London, Connecticut. He next served as executive officer and navigator of the submarine  from March to October 1945 and had similar duty on board the submarine .

Post World War II
Upon his transfer from the Naval Reserve to the U.S. Navy, he was ordered to the General Line School, Newport, Rhode Island, where he completed the assigned course in May 1947. From June 1947 until April 1948, Wilkinson was executive officer and navigator of .

Joining then-Captain Hyman G. Rickover at Oak Ridge National Laboratory after passing one of the first of Rickover's many such interviews, the mathematically-gifted Wilkinson "ultimately developed the nuclear physics equations and formulas for the team...and for the final reactor design" of the prototype reactor for .

From April 1948 to April 1950, he completed assignments at the Oak Ridge; the Argonne National Laboratory in Chicago as an associate engineer, and at the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission in the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, area, as chief of the operations branch and Bureau of Ships representative. In May 1950 he assumed command of the submarine  in which he participated in action in the Korean area from 12 August to 2 November 1951. In February 1952 Wilkinson had temporary duty for one month as commanding officer of the submarine  due to an injury to the assigned CO. From January to May 1952 he fitted out the submarine  and on her commissioning on 10 May of that year became her first commanding officer. He was detached from Wahoo in June 1953.

USS Nautilus
Wilkinson then carried out a series of temporary assignments by way of preparation for becoming prospective commanding officer of USS Nautilus, the world's first nuclear-powered submarine. He took command of the ship upon her commissioning on 30 September 1954 and held that billet until relieved in June 1957. During his three-year tour aboard Nautilus, he presided over pre-commissioning and post-commissioning trials of the submarine. These trials established the capabilities of the nuclear-powered submarine and were used in the development of early nuclear-powered submarine tactics. Nautilus successfully attacked surface ships without being detected and evaded most pursuers.