[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Automotive industry in India

hennai 
 Terex India Private Limited – Hosur 
 Doosan Bobcat India Private Limited – Chennai
 Mauto Electric Mobility Pvt. Ltd – Chennai
 E Royce Motors India Pvt Ltd – Coimbatore
 REEP Motors – Maraimalai Nagar, Chennai
DP Auto India Pvt Ltd - Tiruchirapalli
SWITCH Mobility Automotive Ltd - Chennai

Telangana
Defence
 Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited – Medak

Commercial vehicles
 Hyundai – Hi Tech city
 Mahindra and Mahindra – Zaheerabad
 Deccan auto Limited – Patancheru

Uttar Pradesh
Two wheelers
 India Yamaha Motor – Greater Noida

Commercial vehicles
 Tata Motors – Lucknow
 New Holland – Greater Noida
J.S. Auto (P) LTD. – Kanpur

Uttarakhand
Commercial vehicles
 Ashok Leyland – Pantnagar
 Tata Motors – Pantnagar
 Mahindra & Mahindra – Haridwar

Two wheelers
 Hero MotoCorp – Haridwar
 Bajaj Auto – Pantnagar

West Bengal
Commercial vehicles
 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery – Kharagpur

Exports

India's automobile exports have grown consistently and reached $4.5 billion in 2009, with the United Kingdom being India's largest export market, followed by Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, and South Africa.

According to The New York Times, India's strong engineering base and expertise in the manufacturing of low-cost, fuel-efficient cars has resulted in the expansion of manufacturing facilities of several automobile companies like Hyundai, Nissan, Toyota, Volkswagen, and Maruti Suzuki.

In 2008, South Korean multinational Hyundai Motors alone exported 240,000 cars made in India. Nissan Motors planned to export 250,000 vehicles manufactured in its India plant by 2011. Similarly, US automobile company, General Motors had announced its plans to export about 50,000 cars manufactured in India by 2011.

In September 2009, Ford Motors announced its plans to set up a plant in India with an annual capacity of 250,000 cars, for US$500 million. The cars were manufactured both for the Indian market and for export. The company said that the plant was a part of its plan to make India the hub for its global production business. Fiat Motors had announced that it would source more than US$1 billion worth auto components from India.

In 2009, India (0.23m) surpassed China (0.16m) as Asia's fourth largest exporter of cars after Japan (1.77m), Korea (1.12m) and Thailand (0.26m).

In July 2010, The Economic Times reported that PSA Peugeot Citroën was planning to re-enter the Indian market and open a production plant in Andhra Pradesh that would have an annual capacity of 100,000 vehicles, investing €700M in the operation. PSA's intention to utilise this production facility for export purposes however remains unclear as of December 2010.

In recent years, India has emerged as a leading center for the manufacture of small cars. Hyundai, the biggest exporter from the country, now ships more than 250,000 cars annually from India. Apart from Maruti Exports' shipments to Suzuki's other markets, Maruti Suzuki also manufactures small cars for Nissan, which sells them in Europe. Nissan will also export small cars from its new Indian assembly line. Tata Motors exports its passenger vehicles to Asian and African markets, and is preparing to sell electric cars in Europe in 2010. The firm is planning to sell an electric version of its affordable car the Tata Nano in Europe and in the U.S. In the 2000s, Mahindra & Mahindra prepared to introduce its pickup trucks and small SUV models in the U.S. market, but canceled its plans. As of 2019, it is assembling and selling an off-road vehicle (Mahindra Roxor; not certified for road use) in limited numbers in the U.S. It is also sold in Canada. Bajaj Auto is designing a low-cost car for Renault Nissan Automotive India, which will market the product worldwide. Renault Nissan may also join domestic commercial vehicle manufacturer Ashok Leyland in another small car project. While the possibilities for the Indian automobile industry are impressive, there are challenges that could thwart future growth. Since the demand for automobiles in recent years is directly linked to overall economic expansion and rising personal incomes, industry growth will slow if the economy weakens.

Top 10 export destinations

India exported $14.5 billion worth of automobiles in 2014. The 10 countries below imported 47.8% of that total.

Exports of Vehicles in India decreased to US$1478.68 Million in 2020 from US$11332.49 Million in 2019.

Passenger vehicle manufacturers in India

India is the 4th largest passenger vehicle producer in the world. In 2018–19, it produced 4.06 million cars. Currently, there are an estimated 30 million cars in India.

This list is of cars that are officially available and serviced in India.

Indian brands

Models currently manufactured by Indian brands

 Mahindra: Bolero, Scorpio, Thar, Bolero Neo, KUV100NXT, Marazzo, Alturas G4, XUV300, XUV700
 Tata Motors: Xenon, Tiago, Tigor, Tigor EV, Nexon, Nexon EV, Harrier, Altroz, Safari, Punch
 Force Motors: Force Gurkha