[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Foreign enlistment in the American Civil War

were accompanied by bagpipes; on at least one occasion, the First Battle of Bull Run, they wore tartan trews of Clan Cameron in honor of their colonel. During the course of the war, the 79th opened its ranks to Irish, English and other immigrants, most of whom had been living in the U.S. for years.

The multiethnic makeup of Union forces sometimes posed communications problems due to language barriers, as many regiments and divisions included a mix of volunteers from Germany, Ireland, Italy, Poland, and other European countries. A notable example was the 39th New York Infantry Regiment—also known as the "Garibaldi Guard" after Italian revolutionary Giuseppe Garibaldi—which was led by Hungarian colonel Frederick George D'Utassy and comprised over a dozen nationalities, including Algerians, Turks, Slavs, Swiss, and Spaniards. Maj. Gen. Sigel had his orders translated from his native German to Hungarian for his officers, whose reports in turn were translated in English for the rest of his command, then finally in German for his review.

Several volunteers came from the British colony of Bermuda, especially from among the coloured population, a term used on the island to designate anyone not entirely of European heritage. Most served in dedicated "colored" regiments made up of African Americans, such as the 31st, the 26th, and the 6th Coloured Infantry. Among the most notable Bermudian volunteers was First Sergeant Robert John Simmons of the 54th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment, who had previously served in the British Army; he died in the Second Battle of Fort Wagner, the most famous action of the 54th Regiment, which took place outside the Bermudian settlement of Charleston, South Carolina—ironically a major destination of contraband from his native island.

Many Jewish recruits, who formed the largest religious minority in the Union, were first- or second-generation immigrants; the majority of foreign-born Jews came from German lands. They often faced greater hardship than other foreign groups due to both general antisemitism and ignorance to their distinct religious customs; for example, pork was often served to all troops without regard to Jewish dietary restrictions. The most infamous example of anti-Jewish prejudice was General Order No. 11, issued by Union Major-General Ulysses S. Grant on December 17, 1862, which expelled all Jews from Grant's military district in an effort to reduce corruption and illicit commercial activity presumably undertaken "mostly by Jews and other unprincipled traders." 

Notwithstanding incidents of both latent and overt discrimination, Jews as a whole, like other minority groups in the Union, demonstrated high morale and loyalty; among the most notable examples were Leopold Karpeles and Abraham Cohn, immigrants from Bohemia and Prussia, respectively, who were awarded the Medal of Honor. President Lincoln likewise made a concerted effort to ensure Jews were appointed to leadership positions and accommodated by the military, such as in chaplaincies; he also countermanded Grant's controversial order almost immediately after learning about it.

Confederate enlistment

Thousands of pre-war immigrants served in the Confederate Army, which had formations composed of Irish, Polish, German, and Mexican troops. While neither as large nor as strategically decisive as the Union's foreign-born recruits, the Confederacy's foreign contingents were similarly known for their valor and loyalty.

Most foreign-born Confederate soldiers had spent the majority of their lives in the southern U.S. and were comparatively better integrated than their Northern counterparts. Many fought out of personal affinity to their local or state community, rather than in support of slavery or secession; others were compelled by social pressure engendered by the South's greater need for manpower. By 1863, some Confederate leaders, such as Georgia Governor Joseph E. Brown, forcibly recruited foreign nationals to shore up the war effort.

The Irish were comparatively better represented than other nationalities, since most Irish immigrants were supporters of the pro-Confederacy Democratic Party. The most notable volunteer division comprised descendants of various European communities living in Louisiana, which was commanded by French Major General Count Camille Armand Jules Marie, Prince de Polignac, a veteran of the Crimean War. Known affectionately by his troops as "Prince Polecat", Polignac served with distinction in the Red River Campaign, most notably in the Confederate victory at the Battle of Mansfield.