[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Michael, Row the Boat Ashore

he body but not the soul, hallelujah.
Michael row the boat ashore, hallelujah.
Michael row the boat ashore, hallelujah.
The river is deep and the river is wide, hallelujah.
Milk and honey on the other side, hallelujah.
Michael row the boat ashore, hallelujah.
Michael row the boat ashore, hallelujah.

The recording begins and ends with one of the singers whistling the tune a cappella, later accompanied by simple instruments, in a slow, ballad style.  All the Highwaymen sang and harmonized on the Michael lines but individual singers soloed for each set of additional lyrics.  This version differs from the Pete Seeger/Tony Saletan version by changing "meet my mother on the other side" to "milk and honey on the other side."  "Milk and honey" is a phrase used in the Book of Exodus during Moses' vision of the burning bush.  The original Negro spiritual mentions the singer's mother but the hit version does not.

Lonnie Donegan reached #6 in the UK Singles Chart with his cover version in 1961. Harry Belafonte recorded a popular version of it for his 1962 Midnight Special album. Pete Seeger included it in his Children's Concert at Town Hall in 1963. Seeger also sang a solo version at a 1968 Town Hall children's concert, recorded live and released on Harmony Records (#H30399, track B3), a budget label of Columbia Records. Seeger likewise included "Michael" when he appeared as a guest on Sesame Street in 1970, during the iconic children's television show's second season, using it to teach Big Bird the idea of a participatory sing-along. The same lesson was included when Seeger recorded a Sesame Street album for Children's Television Workshop in 1974 with Brother Kirk.

Trini Lopez had a minor hit with it in 1964. The Israeli-French singer Rika Zaraï also recorded a French version under the title "Michaël" in 1964. The African-American gospel/folk duo Joe & Eddie recorded it for their "Walking Down the Line" album in 1965. The Lennon Sisters recorded a version which was later featured as a bonus track on a CD re-release of their album "The Lennon Sisters Sing Great Hits". 

The Carawans' recording from St. Johns Island of "Jane Hunter and three Moving Star Hall singers" of a traditional "Row, Michael, Row," was released by Smithsonian Folkways Records in 1967 on the album, Been in the Storm So Long.

The song was recorded by The Beach Boys for their 1976 15 Big Ones album but was left off the final running order. Brian Wilson rearranged the song, giving it a rich arrangement with sound similar to the many other covers recorded during this period, including a complex vocal arrangement. Mike Love sang lead vocals. Richard Jon Smith's version spent nine weeks in mid-1979 at #1 in South Africa.
 
The counselors sing the song, along with "Down in the Valley" in the opening scene of the 1980 horror film, Friday the 13th.

A German version is "Michael, bring dein Boot an Land" by Ronny (de). A German gospel version is "Hört, wen Jesus glücklich preist" (A song of the Beatitudes). The  German disco group Dschinghis Khan recorded a version of it in 1981.

The Smothers Brothers did a fairly straightforward version of the song on their album It Must Have Been Something I Said!, before turning it into a comic sing-along on Golden Hits of the Smothers Brothers, Vol. 2 (which is also included on their album Sibling Revelry: The Best of the Smothers Brothers).

Sule Greg Wilson produced a version based upon Allen/Ware/Garrison, as well as Row, Michael Row, by Jane Hunter and Moving Star Hall singers. The Wilson version features Tuscarora vocalist Pura Fé (with Wilson on instruments and background vocals). It was used for the end credits of The Librarian and the Banjo, Jim Carrier's 2013 film on Dena Epstein, author of the book, Sinful Tunes and Spirituals.

Greg & Steve appropriated the Saletan tune and substituted original lyrics for their song, "A Man Named King," on their 1989 Holidays & Special Times album.

Raffi sings this song on his 1994 Bananaphone album.

Peter, Paul and Mary included it on their 1998 Around the Campfire album.

The melody, as adapted by Saletan in 1954, was also appropriated for use in a hymn entitled Glory Be to God on High.

See also 
Christian child's prayer § Spirituals

References

External links
 Audio sample of the song performed by the German choir Outta Limits
 Free MP3 Download for use in services performed by Richard Irwin

19th-century songs
American folk songs
American children's songs
1961 singles
Harry Belafonte songs
The Highwaymen (folk band) songs
Songs about rivers
Trini Lopez songs
Pete Seeger songs
Peter, Paul and Mary songs
Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles
Cashbox number-one singles
UK Singles Chart number-one singles
Number-one singles in Norway
Year of song unknown
Gullah culture
United Artists Records singles
Song recordings produced by Lou Adler
African-American spiritual songs