[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iran–North Korea relations

ity crises (like the ROKS Cheonan sinking and the Bombardment of Yeonpyeong), Iranian news agencies usually quoted the statements of the Korean Central News Agency in parallel with the statements made by Western and South Korean politicians, without showing any detectable preference for either side.

Nor were the two states in full concord in adopting a position toward the various manifestations of international terrorism. On the one hand, both Iran and the North Korea provided military assistance to Hezbollah in Lebanon, and they actively sided with Syrian president Bashar al-Assad against the Syrian wing of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant during the Syrian civil war. On the other hand, North Korea and Iran held substantially different views about the conflicts in which the Taliban, the Boko Haram, and the Iraqi wing of ISIL were involved. While the North Korea stressed that U.S. efforts to suppress these organizations constituted interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, Nigeria, and Iraq, the Iranian leaders, who regarded Sunni Salafi extremism as a direct threat to their own interests, repeatedly accused America of not striving hard enough to eliminate these groups or even seeking to reach an agreement with them.

In 2013, North Korea opened the Ar-Rahman Mosque on the premises of the Iranian embassy, making North Korea the only nation besides Armenia to have a Shia mosque but no Sunni mosque.

During the intertwined North Korean and Iranian nuclear crises, the favorable or unfavorable views that Iranian observers and policy-makers formed about North Korea's nuclear policies were considerably influenced by their political affiliation. In general, Iranian reformists were more negatively disposed toward the DPRK than conservative hard-liners, as they were of the opinion that Iran could not afford to pursue a confrontational nuclear strategy akin to North Korea's policy. Conservative hard-liners cited North Korea's open nuclear defiance of America's might as a positive example that Iran should emulate, but if the DPRK happened to enter nuclear talks with the U.S., they monitored the negotiations with thinly veiled distrust.

Ambassadors

List of North Korean ambassadors to Iran
 Kim Jong-nam (2000–2004)
 Kim Chang-ryong (2004–2010)
 Jo In-chol (2010–2014)
 Kang Sam-hyon (2014–2020)

List of Iranian ambassadors to North Korea
 Aliasghar Nahavandian
 Seyed Morteza Mirheidari (-1997)
 Mohammad Ganjidoost (1997–2001)
 Jalaleddin Namini Mianji (2002-2007)
 Morteza Moradian (2008–2012)
 Mansour Chavoshi (2012–2016)
 Seyed Mohsen Emadi (2017–)

Others
 Ri Won Il, chairman of the DPRK-Iran Friendship Association
 Anoushiravan Mohseni Bandpei, chairman of the Iran-Korea Parliamentary Friendship Group

Military weapons

Since the 1980s North Korea has become known as a reliable supplier of arms to other countries including Iran. Weapons sales between North Korea and Iran increased significantly during the Iran-Iraq war. This weapons sale relationship has expanded into further military cooperation including in the development of and exchange of nuclear technology. This relationship has also involved Syria.

During the Persian Gulf War North Korea is said to have supplied Iran with a range of arms including artillery, anti-aircraft machine guns, mortars, ammunition, tanks, small arms, naval mines and anti-tank and surface-to-air missile systems. In December 2009, in contravention of an arms embargo imposed on North Korea, a shipment of North Korean arms, said to be en route for Iran, according to the Congressional Research Service, was intercepted in Thailand. These weapons included rocket launchers and surface-to-air missile parts.

In addition to weapons, North Korea and Iran have an active exchange of military expertise particularly in relation to special operations and underground facilities. North Korea is thought to have trained Iranian operators in these advanced infiltration techniques.

In March 2013 North Korea and Iran, as well as Syria, blocked a UN Arms Trade Treaty aimed at setting "standards for all cross-border transfers of conventional weapons".

Arms expert Jeffrey Lewis claims that the second stage of North Korea's Hwasong-14 ICBM is similar to the upper stages designed for the Iranian space launch vehicles.

See also 
 Foreign relations of Iran
 Foreign relations of North Korea
 North Korean support for Iran during the Iran–Iraq War

References

Further reading
 Choi, Lyong; Shin, Jong-dae; and Lee, Han-hyung. "The Dilemma of the 'Axis of Evil': The Rise and Fall of Iran-DPRK Relations." The Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, Vol. 31, No. 4 (December 2019), pp. 595–611.

 Fitzpatrick, Mark. "Iran and North Korea: The Proliferation Nexus." Survival, Vol. 48, No. 1 (2006), pp. 61–80.