[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kuban People's Republic

ks. In particular, the main focal point was between the Chernomortsy and the Lineitsy. The former, disappointed with ineffective attempts of different authorities, pursued a policy of attaining full independence for the Kuban. However, the Lineitsy continued to believe in a re-created Russian state.

Russian Civil War
As the populace was already discontent with past struggles over land, the idea of a future Cossack state was unsuitable to many. Anton Ivanovich Denikin grew increasingly dissatisfied with an increasingly isolated Rada. The final sparks came when the Rada first turned towards Ukraine to enter a federal union with Hetman Pavlo Skoropadsky, and after its downfall, entered into a similar union with the Democratic Republic of Georgia, whilst its foreign envoys in France proclaimed independence from Russia.  Some Cossacks left the government, and others defected to the Red Army.

The Kuban National Republic included the Kuban Oblast, Stavropol oblast, Terek, Dagestan and Chernomore guberniya. 4 December 1918 at the special session of the Council where the 2nd Constitution was proclaimed, the Kuban National Republic was renamed Kubanskiy krai. On 15 December 1918, the Kuban Cossacks elected as their field ataman Vyacheslav Naumenko, a man known to be against Cossack separatism. Until has forced to resign on 15 September 1919 under the pressure from the separatists, Naumenko did his best to ensure that the Kuban Host co-operated with the Volunteer Army as the Red Army.

In December 1918, the Rada sent a delegation headed by First Chairman  to the 1919 Paris Peace Conference. By April the delegation put forward its requests for international help for the Kuban as an independent state to be defended from Bolshevism and announced its break from Denikin and refusal to further cooperate in the White Movement. None of this satisfied the Triple Entente. The Kuban People's Republic was, however, de jure recognized by the Ukrainian People's Republic, Azerbaijan Democratic Republic the German Empire, the Ottoman Empire, the Democratic Republic of Georgia, and the Mountainous Republic of the Northern Caucasus.

Denikin, learning of this "back-stabbing" on 6 November 1919, ordered the Rada building to be surrounded, and with the help of Ataman Alexander Filimonov arrested ten of the Rada's members, including its premiere Pavel Kurgansky. , a member of the delegation to the Paris Peace Conference, was publicly hanged for treason. Most Cossacks joined Denikin and fought in the ranks of the Armed Forces of the Russian South, mainly in the Kuban army. In December 1919, after Denikin's defeat, it had become clear that the Bolsheviks would overrun the Kuban, and some of the separatist-minded groups managed to restore the Rada authorities and to break away from the Volunteer Army, either to fight the Bolsheviks in alliance with other independence-striving governments such as the Ukrainian People's Republic and the Democratic Republic of Georgia or to liberate Ukraine from Pilsudsky's invasion in alliance with the Reds. However, by early 1920 the Red Army took most of the Kuban, and both the Rada and the white armies were evicted. But the last ataman, his government and many of his Cossacks served in the army of Wrangel and then retreated from Crimea to Turkey.

Legacy 

Both Soviet and later contemporary Russian historians viewed the decision of the Kuban People's Republic to break with the White Movement as a deceitful "back-stabbing" at a critical moment during the Russian Civil War. The act is perceived as one of the important contributions to the ultimate Bolshevik victory.

Some Ukrainian historians argue that the Kuban People's Republic was an attempt by the Kuban Cossacks to unite with Ukraine, citing the shifting alliances of the Rada. The last premier of the Republic, Vasil Ivanis, argued that had Pavlo Skoropadsky acted more decisively, and sent a UNR division led by General Natiev to the Kuban, Ukraine would have become the main nexus of the Anti-Bolshevik movement. Ivanis states that with the aid of the Central Powers they could have easily reclaimed all of Russia, given that Aleksander Kolchak would have acted in the same time frame in the East.

Modern developments 
In the summer-autumn of 1991 several Cossack republics were proclaimed on the territory of the former Kuban People's Republic: Armavirska, Zelenchuksk-Urupska and Batalpashinska, and the last two merged into the Cossack Upper Kuban. Of these, only the Zelenchuksko-Urupskaya Cossack Republic, which lasted six months, had actual power. The reason for the proclamation of the republics in Karachay-Cherkessia was a referendum held by Cossack activists in the summer of 1991: 64.8% of whose participants were in favor of creating autonomy.

See also 
 Kuban Cossacks
 Kuban Soviet Republic
 Kuban-Black Sea Soviet Republic
 Don Republic

References and sources
References

Sources

Further reading