[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zombie Prom

Zombie Prom is an Off-Broadway musical with music by Dana P. Rowe and a book and lyrics by John Dempsey, later adapted into a short film.  It was first produced at the Red Barn Theatre, Key West, Florida in 1993.  It opened off-Broadway in New York City at the Variety Arts Theatre in 1996. It also opened November 2009 in London with a UK Premiere at the off-West End Landor Theatre.

Story

Act I
Zombie Prom is set at Enrico Fermi High School, a school located near a very unstable nuclear power plant.
The students and staff go through their daily routine ("Enrico Fermi High"); among them is Jonny, a rebel who spells his name without the traditional 'H', the good-girl heroine, Toffee, and Miss Strict, the principal of Enrico Fermi High School. The day is interrupted by an air raid siren, signalling a duck-and-cover drill. Jonny and Toffee meet and  fall in love ("Ain't No Goin' Back"). They date for several months before Toffee's parents forbid her from seeing Jonny. She reluctantly breaks up with him, and Jonny commits suicide by hurling himself into the Francis Gary Powers nuclear power plant, causing a "class 3 nuclear disaster". He is buried at sea in international waters, with the rest of the nuclear waste.

Three weeks pass. Toffee's friends notice that she is upset and distracted. She expresses sadness over Jonny's death, and retells the night from her point of view ("Jonny Don't Go").

As the rest of the school gets ready for the senior prom, Toffee continues to wear black clothing in mourning for Jonny ("Good As It Gets"). Her friends insist that she should go to prom and get over Jonny's death, but she refuses. She also occasionally hears Jonny's voice ("The C Word"). Frustrated at constantly being told to get over Jonny, she states that "life's a trap of the same old crap." 'Crap,' however, is a taboo word at Enrico Fermi High; Toffee's friend Ginger tells on her to Miss Strict, and Miss Strict reminds her of the school's philosophy, something the students are very familiar with ("Rules, Regulations, and Respect").

Toffee continues to hear Jonny's voice, eventually hearing it coming from inside her locker. He begs to be let free and bursts from the locker, shocking the other students ("Blast From The Past"). This is not well-received, and the students are scared and disgusted by Jonny's deteriorating appearance. Not to miss out on a story, reporter Eddie Flagrante picks up on the story from Josh, a cub reporter from Enrico Fermi High ("That's the Beat For Me"). He elaborates on his job, and his goal in journalism: "Tamer than Playboy, but bigger than Life."

Trying to cope with Jonny's unexpected reappearance, Toffee talks with him about what brought him back - her voice, as it turns out ("The Voice in the Ocean").  Inspired to return to school, Jonny is ready to graduate ("It's Alive"). Miss Strict, however, adamantly refuses to allow him to re-enroll and bans him from school, despite Jonny's new appreciation for Miss Strict and her ideals.

Overwhelmed, Toffee struggles to decide what to do next. Her friends urge her to give up on Jonny and move on, while Jonny's friends encourage him to do the same to her, as they believe Toffee has made her answer clear by not immediately taking him back. Jonny pleads with Toffee to get back together with him, unsuccessfully ("Where Do We Go From Here?"). Josh points Jonny out to a visiting Flagrante, who recognizes Miss Strict. He states that it has been "a very long time" and the two have a cryptic conversation, in which Miss Strict is defensive and angry for an unknown reason. The three then begin to argue over Jonny's rights; Flagrante believes Jonny should be allowed to return and preventing him from doing so is an infringement on his civil rights, while Miss Strict believes the school rules should be enforced and breaking tradition even once is too dangerous to risk, especially for a student as unremarkable as Jonny (who genuinely just wants to return to school). Neither side gives in, and the argument ends in a stalemate ("Trio [Case Closed]").

Act II
The students at Enrico Fermi High school protest that Jonny should be let back into school ("Then Came Jonny"). Miss Strict retaliates by canceling the pep squad; not slowed by her tactics, they begin to disobey the dress code. Miss Strict dismantles the baseball team, but even so, the students make a petition to reinstate Jonny as a student. Miss Strict puts all seniors on probation, threatens to cancel all after-school events, and promises that at the next transgression, she can and will cancel the senior prom.

Flagrante has continued to report on Jonny's story on television ("Come Join Us"). During a commercial break, he asks for the number to Our Lady of Divine Masochism, a Catholic orphanage, for unspecified reasons. While being interviewed by Flagrante, Jonny explains that he cannot give up love because it is what brought him back ("How Can I Say Good-Bye?").