[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Government procurement

. On the other hand, the term "Winner's curse" is associated with framework agreement as there is a price uncertainty in time.

All of these three procurement strategies are not mutually exclusive. So, framework agreements can be processed centrally through e-procurement.

Regulation by jurisdiction

Albania
Albania's Public Procurement Agency (Agjencia e Prokurimit Publik) is a central body with legal and public personality reporting to the Prime Minister, and financed by the State Budget. Its activity is based on: 
Law No. 9643/2006 "On public procurement", as amended
Law No. 125/2013 "On concessions and public private partnership", as amended, which repealed the previous law "On concessions" (Law No. 9663, dated 18 December 2006), and 
Law No. 9874/2008 "On public auction", as amended.
The main duties and competencies of the Public Procurement Agency are:
preparation of project-proposals for public procurement regulations, public auctions and those in the field of concessions/public private partnerships, preparation of Standard Tender Documents and issuing the necessary instructions in order to assist the contracting authorities undertaking these procedures;
verification of the implementation of public procurement, concessions and public auction procedures after the phase of contract signature and in case of infringements of the legal and sublegal provisions, penalizes with fines or proposes administrative measures;
monitoring the progress of the public procurement system, and the implementation of measures and activities in order to achieve and maintain a completely transparent and efficient system of concessions/public private partnerships;
preparation and publication of the Public Notices Bulletin;
exclusion of economic operators from participation in public procurement, concessions or public auctions for a period of 1 to 3 years;
promotion and organisation of training for central and local government officials involved in public procurement activities.

The Public Procurement Commission (PPC in English, KPP in Albanian) is a quasi-judicial state body with responsibility for providing legal protection in relation to public procurement.

The US Department of Commerce reports that businesses "occasionally complain about problems in the technical and financial criteria of contracts, resulting in biased and distorted competition" and that "improper implementation of [Albania's] public procurement procedures" has also been noted as a problem.

Albania has observer status with regard to the Government Procurement Agreement and is negotiating accession.

Algeria
Presidential Decree No. 10-236 of 7 October 2010, supplemented and amended by Presidential Decree No. 12-23 of 18 January 2012, regulates public procurement in Algeria.

American Samoa
The Office of Procurement, based in Tafuna, is the central authority on procurement for the American Samoa Government (ASG), being responsible for the procurement of all construction, goods, and services including the management, control, warehousing, and sale of stores/inventory commodities contained in its warehouse.

Angola
Public procurement in Angola is governed by Law No. 20/10 of 7 September 2010, the Public Procurement Law, and Law No. 2/2011 on
Public-Private Partnerships in Angola. The Public Procurement Law repealed Law No. 7/96 of 16 February 1996 and Decree No. 40/05 of 8 June 2005. Public expenditure, the provision of services, the leasing and acquisition of goods, and public works contracts regulated through the Public Procurement Law.

Argentina
Argentina has observer status with respect to the Government Procurement Agreement.

Australia

The Australian government's procurement activity is governed by the Commonwealth Procurement Rules and overseen by the Department of Finance. The rules were revised on 1 January 2018. States and territories also have their own procurement policies and legislation.

Bahrain
The Tender Board of the Kingdom of Bahrain, based in Manama, regulates procurement and undertakes procurement activity for the kingdom's public bodies. The Board was established in 2003 under the directives of His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa.

Bahrain has observer status with respect to the Government Procurement Agreement.

Bangladesh
The Cabinet Committee on Public Purchase () is the Bangladesh government's highest decision-making body regarding public procurement.

The Swiss Challenge system is utilised in Bangladesh to procure infrastructure development through public-private partnerships.

Belize
Belize is a member of CARICOM. Government procurement is subject to the Contractor-General Act, No. 6 of 1993, which received the Governor-General's assent on 5 January 1994. The Act provided for the establishment of the Office of the Contractor-General. The Contractor-General is an independent, non-political appointment made by the Governor-General acting on the recommendations of both Houses of the National Assembly.