[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Ethnic groups in Syria

Arabs represent the major ethnicity in Syria, in addition to the presence of several, much smaller ethnic groups.

Ethnicity, religion and national/ideological identities
Ethnicity and religion are intertwined in Syria as in other countries in the region, but there are also nondenominational, supraethnic and suprareligious political identities, like Syrian nationalism.

Counting the ethnic or religious groups
Since the 1960 census there has been no counting of Syrians by religion, and there has never been any official counting by ethnicity or language. In the 1943 and 1953 censuses the various denominations were counted separately, e.g. for every Christian denomination. In 1960 Syrian Christians were counted as a whole but Muslims were still counted separately between Sunnis and Alawis.

Ethnic and religious groups
The majority of Syrians speak Arabic except for a minority of Aramaic speakers and Syrian Kurds, who altogether form 5-10% of the population. Syrian Arab Sunni Muslims form ~70-75% of the populace, Christians altogether around 10%, Alawites at less than 10%, and the remaining ~5-10% consist of minor ethnoreligious groups including the Druze, Isma'ilis, and Twelver Shiite Muslims. However, these percentages are only indicative.

Arabs
The majority of Syrian Arabs speak a variety of dialects belonging to Levantine Arabic. Arab tribes and clans of Bedouin descent are mainly concentrated in the governorates of al-Hasakah, Deir ez-Zor, Raqqa and eastern Aleppo, forming roughly 20 to 30% of the total population and speaking a dialect related to Bedouin and Najdi Arabic. 
In Deir ez-Zor a dialect of North Mesopotamian Arabic is also spoken, reminiscent of that of medieval Iraq prior the Mongol invasions in 1258. In the Anti-Lebanon Mountains, Western Aramaic is spoken in Jubb'adin, Maaloula and Bakhah. The majority of the inhabitants are bilingual and speak Arabic as a first or second language.

Arab minority groups
Arab Christians (Greek-Orthodox, Greek-Catholics, Maronites and a part of the Syrian Catholics, some espouse a Syriac-Aramean identity)
Druze
Sunni Muslim and Christian Palestinians
Arab Twelver Shias
Arab Ismailis

Non-Arabs
Syrian Kurds form 5 to 10% of the Syrian population, the largest non-Arab minority. Other non-Arabic-speaking Muslim groups include Syrian Turkmen, who had settled Syria in Mamluk and Ottoman times, Syrian Circassians and Syrian Chechens who settled in the 19th century, and Greek Muslims who were resettled in Syria following the Greco-Turkish War of 1897. Assyrians in Qamishli form a small minority and mainly speak Eastern Aramaic dialects.

Muslim minority groups
Kurds (Sunni, Yazidi)
Arabic-speaking or Turkmen Alawis

Sunni and Alevi Turkmens
Sunni Circassians
Sunni Muslim Greeks
Muslim Ossetians
Black people of Yarmouk Basin
Christian minority groups
Assyrians, Aramaic speaking non-Arab people (including Chaldo-Assyrian Catholics, Assyrian Church of the East and Syriac Orthodox) and Syriacs (Orthodox)
Armenians
Other groups
Romani people of various creeds
Jews
Mandeans

See also
Demographics of Syria
Languages of Syria
Religion in Syria
Sectarianism and minorities in the Syrian Civil War
Federalization of Syria

References

External links
Sectarianism in Syria (Survey Study)