[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sukkah

like can all be used for s'chach, unless they were processed previously for a different use.

There must be enough s'chach that inside the sukkah there should be more shade than sun. However, there should ideally be sufficient gaps between the pieces of s'chach so that one can see the sun or stars.

Decorations 
Many people hang decorations such as streamers, shiny ornaments, and pictures from the interior walls and ceiling beams of a sukkah. Fresh, dried or plastic fruit—including etrogs and the seven species for which Israel is praised (wheat, barley, grapes, figs, pomegranates, olives and dates; see Deuteronomy 8:8)—are popular decorations.

Some families also line the interior walls with white sheeting, in order to recall the "Clouds of Glory" that surrounded the Jewish nation during their wanderings in the desert. The Chabad custom is not to decorate the sukkah, as the sukkah itself is considered to be an object of beauty.

Associated prayers

Blessing 
According to Jewish law, one must recite the following blessing when using the sukkah. The blessing is normally recited after the blessing made on food, such as on bread or cake:

Ushpizin 

During the holiday, some Jews recite the ushpizin prayer which symbolizes the welcoming of seven "exalted guests" into the sukkah. These ushpizin, or guests, represent the seven shepherds of Israel: Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, Aaron, Joseph and David.  According to tradition, each night a different guest enters the sukkah followed by the other six. Each of the ushpizin parallels the spiritual focus of the day on which they visit.

In Chabad tradition, an additional set of corresponding "chasidic" ushpizin enter the sukkah, beginning with the Baal Shem Tov and the Maggid of Mezeritch and continuing with the consecutive rebbes of the Chabad Hasidic dynasty.

Notable examples

Drive-through

In 2010, Bet Shira Congregation in Miami, Florida, erected a tent as a drive-through Sukkah, dubbed "McBet Shira Sukkah", in the parking lot of the synagogue.

Sukkah City
Sukkah City was a public art and architecture competition planned for New York City's Union Square Park.    The winning design was chosen as the City Sukkah, to stand, starting on September 22, 2010, for the requisite seven days of the harvest holiday.  A committee of art critics and celebrated architects selected the 12 finalists from a field of entries.

Pedi-Sukkah 
Pedi-Sukkahs see the normally stationary build of a Sukkah placed on the back of a mobile vehicle, usually a 3-wheeled bicycle.  The pedi-Sukkah was introduced by Levi Duchman in 2009 and has since spread to at least 15 states and 5 countries.

Samaritan sukkahs 

In Samaritanism, sukkahs are built indoors using fruit instead of wood. According to Samaritan historian Benyamim Tsedaka, Samaritans initially constructed sukkahs outside of their homes, as Jews do. However, during the Byzantine period, the Samaritans faced persecutions and began to construct them inside instead. This custom has remained ever since.

See also

 Syndicat Northcrest v. Amselem, a Canadian legal case on the building of sukkot

References

External links

 "Sukkah City"—slideshow by The New York Times
 "What on Earth Is a Sukkah?": Slideshow by NPR
 Laws of Sukkot
 sukkahsoftheworld.org: Pictures of sukkahs from Sharon to Shanghai
 Local Sukkah: Worldwide listing of sukkahs available for public use
 The Laws of the Succah by Rabbi Eliezer Melamed

House types
Huts
Jewish ritual objects
Positive Mitzvoth
Sukkot
Hebrew words and phrases in Jewish law
Vernacular architecture
Jewish buildings