[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yaniv (card game)

sually 200), that player is eliminated from the game. Once all players but one have been eliminated, the remaining player is declared the winner.

There are two variations:

A certain limit is set. Whenever a player crosses that limit, the game ends and the victor is the one with the smallest score.

A certain limit is set. Whenever a player crosses that limit, they quit the game. The victor is the last remaining player.
The common limit is 200.

Common variations 

In some variations, aces are counted as both low and high for the purposes of sets.
It is common practice in Yaniv, to cut a player's score in half if it hits a multiple of 50 such as 50 or 100. Additionally, in some versions of Yaniv, when a player's score hits an exact multiple of 50 (50, 100, 150 or 200), it is reduced by 50.
Some players may choose to instigate a punishment if "Yaniv" is called and the sum of the caller's cards is greater than seven. Examples of punishments include immediate elimination from the game, being forced to draw three additional cards, or having to swap cards with the first person who requests a swap. Others choose to let the game continue as usual.
Instead of playing until all players but one is eliminated, some games may end as soon as a player crosses the point limit. In this case, the winner is the player with the lowest score when the game ends.
In a standard deck of cards, both are pictured from a side angle, where only one eye is visible. Each can be referred to as a “One Eyed Jack” or more commonly abbreviated to a “One Eye” and are considered the best scoring cards in the game.
A common variation - in particular suitable for smaller groups of people (fewer than four) - is to play with three instead of five cards, which speeds up the game significantly. It is known as "Speedy Yaniv" or "Yan". If four or fewer people are playing it is common to use a standard 54 card deck that is split in half (i.e. use only two full suits and only one joker). All other rules stay the same, apart from when a player has five or fewer points, the player has to declare "Yan" instead of "Yaniv". If a player calls "Yaniv" instead, they earn an additional penalty of 30 points.
Another variation is that if you pick from the deck a card of the same rank as the one you have just discarded, you may discard this without picking up another card, thus reducing the number of cards in your hand. You must do this quickly, before the next player has a chance to play their card. Amongst certain groups of backpackers this is known as a "Paddy Smashdown."

Origin 
The Israeli backpackers community, where the game is most popular, attribute the invention of the game to two backpackers, one named Yaniv and the other Asaf (as both are common given names for males in Israel). It is said that the two invented the game while backpacking through East Asia (sometimes South America) and wanting to find a better way to pass the time on long waits in train stations and long bus rides.

See also 

 Rummy
 Penguin 71

References

External links 
 

Shedding-type card games
Israeli card games
Draw and discard games