[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# British Telecom microwave network

d
Lockerbie, Dumfriesshire
Green Lowther, Dumfriesshire
Kirk o' Shotts, Lanarkshire (GPO site near BBC site)

Two additional 'backbone spur' sites were planned for Shrewsbury and Grantham (Carlton Scroop), which connected to the main Backbone spine at Pye Green and Coalville (Copt Oak) respectively.

Radio standby to line 
The 1956 plan also described a series of links called 'radio standby to line'. These were spur links between the GPO backbone sites and defence 'customer' sites. They were designed to carry between 25 and 150 'private wire' (a.k.a. leased line) circuits each, by radio. The paper contains a list of sites and a network map, showing the following radio standby to line links:

Kirk o' Shotts to Gailes ground-controlled interception (GCI) radar station near Ayr
Muggleswick to Boulmer GCI station, Royal Observer Corps and regional communications, Seaton Snook GCI station
Hunters Stones to Forest Moor Admiralty radio receiving station, Shipton RAF Sector Operations Centre (SOC), Preston SOC, Regional Commissioner's HQ and Admiralty radio transmitting station
Grantham to RAF bomber bases and US Air Force bases
Norwich to RAF SOC (Bawburgh), US Air Force bases, GCI stations, naval headquarters, continental communications
Kelvedon Hatch, Essex to RAF SOC, RAF bomber stations, RAF radar stations
West Malling, Kent to naval headquarters at Chatham and Dover, RAF radar and Fighter Command headquarters, continental communications
Upavon, Wiltshire to Army establishments on Salisbury Plain
Sopley and Portsmouth to naval headquarters at Portsmouth and naval radio stations at Horsea and Flowerdown
Box, Wiltshire to Admiralty establishment at Bath, RAF SOC and Signals centre, Army signals centres at Cheltenham and Droitwich and Army radio stations, Foreign Office GCHQ and radio stations, important radio stations and miscellaneous radar stations in south-west England, South Wales and the Border Counties.

Aerials and towers 

Various types of aerial have been used in the network's history. At first, prime-focus parabolic reflectors were used. In about 1960, dual-band horn aerials started to be used widely, and a few of these survive to the present day. They began to go out of fashion at the end of the 1960s, when types of parabolic antenna with an improved performance became available.

Many of the towers were designed with particular types of aerial in mind. Often they were designed to carry horn aerials but no longer do so.

See also 

 Microwave radio relay

References

Further reading 

 Campbell, D., 1983. War Plan UK, p243, p245. Paladin edition. .
 Laurie, P., 1983. Beneath the City Streets, p. 243. Granada edition. .
 The National Archives (UK), 1956–1962. Proposed relay station sites for the General Post Office ("The Backbone Scheme"). File No. COU1/38.
 Fox, S., and Lamont, R., 2003. The Towers of Backbone.

Microwave transmission
Cold War history of the United Kingdom
Microwave network
History of television in the United Kingdom