[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Salwa Judum

ere being killed"
 Singh, however, said that a "peaceful campaign" to wean locals away from supporting Maoists would continue.
 The British Channel 4's Unreported World telecast a program titled "India's Hidden War" in October 2006, on the Maoist war against the state of India.

Darbha Ghat massacre

On 25 May 2013, members of the Congress party running the Parivartan Yatra (Change Campaign), projected as preparatory campaigning for the forthcoming state elections, travelling in a convoy of vehicles after addressing rallies in Sukma, were ambushed and killed by Naxalites. The deceased included Mahendra Karma, founder and leader of the outlawed and disbanded Salwa Judum; Vidya Charan Shukla, a prominent Congress state and ex-central minister; Nand Kumar Patel, president of the Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee; his son Dinesh Patel; and ex-MLA Uday Mudaliyar, while several others were injured, including ex-MLA Phulo Devi Netam. Shukla survived the attack and was airlifted to several hospitals before dying on 11 June 2013.

In a public statement, the Naxalites claimed that they had specifically targeted Karma; he had been stabbed multiple times by a group of female Naxalites.

Further reading
 Let's call him Vasu: With Maoists in Chhattisgarh, by Shubhranshu Choudhary, Penguin, 2012
 The Burning Forest: India's War in Bastar, by Nandini Sundar, Juggernaut Press, 2016
 The Adivasis of Chhattisgarh: Victims of the Naxalite Movement and Salwa Judum Campaign, by Asian Centre for Human Rights. Published by Asian Centre for Human Rights, 2006.
 Walking with the Comrades by Arundhati Roy New Delhi: Penguin, 2011.

See also
 Red corridor
 Naxalite-Maoist insurgency
 Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist)

References

External links
 The Adivasis of Chhattisgarh: Victims of the Naxalite Movement and Salwa Judum campaign
 Unreported World: India's Hidden War
 Naxal issues
 Anti-Naxal Salwa Judum faces axe over rights abuse
 Economic and political weekly article on NHRC report
 Report of the IAPL fact-finding mission
 Video Documentary (20 mn.) on Salwa Judum camps

Indian anti-communists
Anti-communism in India
Anti-communist terrorism
2005 establishments in Chhattisgarh
Military units and formations established in 2005
Paramilitary organisations based in India
Politics of Chhattisgarh
Indigenous counterinsurgency forces
Far-right politics in India
2011 disestablishments in India
Military units and formations disestablished in 2011