[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Human rights in Egypt

e deaths in custody and serious damage to prisoners’ health. In 2020 alone, at least 35 people died in custody or shortly after following medical complications. The health and human rights crisis in prisons was further exacerbated by the authorities’ failure to adequately address COVID-19 outbreaks.

On 15 November 2021, 14 human rights groups reported that the Egyptian authorities forcibly disappeared Salah Soltan in June 2020, as a result of his son's human rights activism. Soltan is the father of a prominent US-based human rights activist, Mohamed Soltan. He was held in conditions that may amount to torture or other ill-treatment, including prolonged solitary confinement. The prison authorities deprived him of access to proper medical care and basic hygiene necessities. Egyptian authorities also carried out reprisals against other members of the Soltan family.

In November 2021, an investigation by Amnesty International concluded that Egyptian authorities were complicit in the crackdown on the factory workers who were demanding job security and higher pay through a peaceful strike. Nearly 2,000 employees of an Egyptian manufacturer, LORD International, went on a strike between July 26 and August 1. Amnesty revealed that the Egyptian Ministry of Manpower failed to provide any solution to workers who faced reprisals for taking part in the strike. Moreover, the official complaints of the workers were dismissed and pressure was put on them to end their “illegal strike”.

2022
In March 2022, two Egyptian singers, Hamo Beeka and Omar Kamal, were sentence to two years in prison and fines by the Alexandria Economic Court. They were convicted on vague charges of “violating family values in Egyptian society and profiting from a video including dancing and singing”. The fine imposed was of  (US$538), along with an additional  fee to suspend the prison sentences. They were reportedly charged because of a music video, in which the two men sang and danced along with a Brazilian belly dancer. Rights organizations condemned that the charges violated the right to free speech of the two singers.

2023
The repercussions of anti-government protests held in 2019 haven't settled in Egypt yet, therefore, the government announced the sentencing of 82 people in January 2023. There were 38 people sentenced for life, which included Mohammad Ali. Meanwhile, 44 others were given prison term for 5 to 15 years. The sentencing included 22 children for participating in the 2019 anti-government protests.

In January 2023, Egypt arrested five social media content creators for publishing a comic sketch about a visit to an Egyptian jail. The video clip titled “The Visit” was published on 13 January 2023, and was widely viewed on social media. Mokhtar Mounir, a lawyer for two of those arrested, said they face charges such as “joining a terrorist group, funding terrorism, publishing false news and utilizing social media accounts to commit acts of terrorism”.

Human Rights Watch published a report in March 2023 revealing that the Egyptian authorities were refusing to provide critics living abroad with their identity documents, including passports, birth certificates, and ID cards. The report said that the authorities’ goal appeared to disrupt the lives of dissidents, who would be forced to choose between remaining undocumented or coming back to Egypt, where they might face imprisonment or torture.

Political prisoners
According to Salah Sallam, ("a former member of Egypt’s government-appointed" Human Rights association), it is against the law to call "someone who’s conspired against the state a political prisoner,” making it effectively against the law to protest the arrest of such a person by calling them a political prisoner. Nonetheless, it was common in "prison and court", for "guards and judges openly refer to detainees not linked to violence as 'political', according to "former detainees and lawyers".

According  to the New York Times, the Egyptian government "has long denied holding any political detainees", but in the last few weeks as of late June 2022, "some officials have begun to acknowledge the practice of imprisoning people for their political views", saying it was "necessary to restore stability" after the 2011 Arab Spring revolution in Egypt. International human rights organizations reported that there are some 60,000 political prisoners in Egypt. The Egyptian government was thought to be under pressure to improve its human rights record after the death of prominent economist Ayman Hadhoud in custody "hit international headlines", Hadhoud presumed to "have been tortured to death by state security", who did not bother notifying his family until over a month after his death.