[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# South African literature

ther or not it depicts life "as it is", rather than the Afrikaans emphasis on literary merit taken from Russian Formalism and introduced by Van Wyk Louw.

Professor Chris Mann is a poet presently associated with Rhodes University and has compiled a number of anthologies of poetry.

African languages

Although there are nine official African languages in South Africa, most speakers are fluent in Afrikaans and English. Coupled with the small market for writing in African languages, this has led many African writers to write in English and Afrikaans. The first texts produced by black authors were often inspired by missionaries and frequently deal with African history, in particular the history of kings such as Chaka. Modern South African writing in the African languages tends to play at writing realistically, at providing a mirror to society, and depicts the conflicts between rural and urban settings, between traditional and modern norms, racial conflicts and most recently, the problem of AIDS.

In the first half of the 20th century, epics largely dominated black male writing: historical novels, such as Sol T. Plaatje's Mhudi: An Epic of South African Native Life a Hundred Years Ago (1930), Thomas Mofolo's Chaka (trans. 1925), and epic plays including those of H. I. E. Dhlomo, or heroic epic poetry such as the work of Mazizi Kunene. These texts "evince black African patriarchy in its traditional form, with men in authority, often as warriors or kings, and women as background figures of dependency, and/or mothers of the nation" (Cullhed, 2006: 21). Female literature in the African languages is severely limited because of the strong influence of patriarchy, but over the last decade or two, society has changed much and it can be expected that more female voices will emerge.

Zulu

Some of the most prominent Zulu authors are BW Vilakazi, Mazisi Kunene, RRR Dhlomo, HIE Dhlomo, JL Dube, Njabulo S Ndebele, Nimrod Ndebele, EA Made, and DBZ Ntuli.

Xhosa

Ityala lamawele ('The Lawsuit of the Twins') by S.E.K. Mqhayi is the first extant novel in the Xhosa language. It was published in 1914 by the Lovedale Press, and has been a significant influence on subsequent isiXhosa literature.

Other prominent Xhosa authors are AC Jordan, JJR Jolobe, ZS Qangule, KS Bongela, Godfrey Mzamane, Rubusana, Peter Mtuze and Guybon Sinxo. A female writer of note is Sindiwe Magona. Her 1998 novel, Mother to Mother, deals with violence at the end of Apartheid through the killing of American student Amy Biehl. Magona writes both in English and Xhosa.

Sesotho
Some of the most prominent Sesotho authors are MKPD Maphala, BM Khaketla, N.S. Puleng, Thomas Mofolo, and Makali Isabella Mokitimi.

Pedi
Some of the most prominent Pedi authors are OK Matsepe, HDN Bopape, HP Maredi, SR Machaka, MS Nchabeleng and Ramaila.

Tswana
Some of the most prominent Tswana authors are Sol Plaatje, DB Moloto, DPS Monyaise, SA Moroke, Gilbert Modise, MJ Ntsime, LD Raditladi (who had a crater on Mercury named after him), MD Mothoagae, JHK Molao.

Literary festivals

The Franschhoek Literary Festival was launched in 2007 and has been taking place once a year since then. Its focus is on English-speaking South African literature that includes fiction, non-fiction and poetry. Every year a few distinguished international authors are also invited. The Knysna Literary Festival first took place in 2009 with similar objectives. In contrast, the Open Book Festival in Cape Town wants to be international with authors and audience from around the world. It also sees itself as a place where South African writers can promote themselves. The Open Book Festival was first launched in 2011. All three festivals also aim to draw children and young adults into reading by organizing special events for these audiences and funding projects such as school libraries.

 See also 
 List of South African writers
 List of South African poets
 South African poetry
 List of literary awards, South African section
 Media of South Africa

References 

 Further reading 
Attridge, Derek and Rosemary Jolly, eds. 1998. Writing South Africa: Literature, Apartheid, and Democracy, 1970–1995. Cambridge: Cambridge UP.