[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eastern University massacre

he first row, people aged 26 to 40 in the second row, and persons over 40 years of age in the third row.  People in the three queues were asked to pass through a point where five people clad in masks and army uniforms were seated in chairs along with seven Muslims, standing behind the masked people.

Whenever the people in the masks gave a signal, people in the queues were taken away to the side. When this operation was completed, 158 people who were pulled out from the queues were taken away by the Army despite protest from their kith and kin. There was evidence to show that the arrests were done by the Kommathurai Army camp with the assistance of personnel from other army camps, and that the following Army officers were directing the operations: Capt. Munas, Capt. Palitha, Capt. Gunarathna, Major Majeed, and Major Monan. Some of these names are aliases. There was also evidence to show that Gerry de Silva had visited the refugee camp on  September 8, 1990 and had told the officers responsible for the administration of the refugee camp that all 158 people taken into custody on September 5 were found guilty.  However, he declined to say what happened to them after they were found guilty. There was further evidence showing that one of the officers in charge of the refugee camp made a request to the army personnel in charge of the operations to give a list of persons arrested. However, there was no response.

It also transpired in evidence that Mr. Thalayasingam, the Chairman of the Peace Committee, had received a letter in October, 1990 from Mr A. W. Fernando, Air Chief Marshal, who was then the Secretary to the Honorable Minister of State for Defence, wherein it stated that on September 5, 1990, only 32 people were taken into custody from the Eastern University Refugee camp, and that all had been released within 24 hours of arrest.  The letter contained a list of 32 names of people alleged to have been released.  However the Commission was informed that none of those who were arrested had returned either to the said refugee camp or to their homes and still remain missing.

Day of remembrance
The incident and the related massacres of civilians has become an annual event of remembrance in Batticaloa.

See also
 List of attacks on civilians attributed to Sri Lankan government forces

References

External links
Eastern University , Sri Lanka (official website)

Attacks on civilians attributed to the Sri Lanka Army
Attacks on civilians attributed to the Sri Lanka Civil Security Force
Attacks on universities and colleges
Massacres in Sri Lanka
Eastern University, Sri Lanka
Massacres in 1990
Mass murder of Sri Lankan Tamils
School massacres
September 1990 events in Asia
September 1990 crimes
Sri Lankan government forces attacks in Eelam War II
Terrorist incidents in Sri Lanka in 1990