[Source: PubMed]

47. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Apr 24;18(9):4530. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18094530.

Assessing the Feasibility of Providing a Family Skills Intervention, "Strong 
Families", for Refugee Families Residing in Reception Centers in Serbia.

El-Khani A(1), Haar K(1), Stojanovic M(2), Maalouf W(1).

Author information:
(1)Prevention, Treatment and Rehabilitation Section, Drug Prevention and Health 
Branch, Division of Operations, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 
(UNODC), Wagramer Strasse 5, A-1400 Vienna, Austria.
(2)United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Program Office Serbia, Bulevar 
Zorana Djindjica 64, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.

War exposure and forced displacement threatens the wellbeing of caregivers and 
their children, leaving them at risk of negative outcomes, such as elevated 
rates of anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. The importance 
of engaged, responsive and stable parenting for positive child wellbeing has 
been documented across diverse cultural and economic backgrounds. Despite the 
higher need for caregivers to be nurturing in challenging settings, they 
struggle to provide adequate support for their children due to lack of resources 
or their inability to deal with their own emotional challenges. A feasibility 
study was conducted of a new, open-access and light-touch family skills 
intervention, Strong Families (for families in humanitarian and challenged 
settings) on refugee families residing in Reception Centers in Serbia. 
Questionnaires and interviews were completed by participating caregivers and 
facilitators. Qualitative results indicated that the intervention was feasible 
to run in this humanitarian context, that caregivers viewed the intervention as 
culturally acceptable and complemented the quantitative results that showed 
promise for enhancing child behavior and family functioning tested indicators. 
Despite being a light intervention, Strong Families indicated improvement on 
child mental health, parenting practices and parent and family adjustment 
skills. Prioritizing family mental health and functioning as a primary need that 
parallels that of accessing physical medical care, sanitation and clean water 
must be the definitive next step in humanitarian aid.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18094530
PMCID: PMC8123170
PMID: 33923302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
disclose.