[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Norwegian language conflict

culture and dialects. The Nynorsk movement gained new momentum, putting rural districts and the dialects more in the center of Norwegian politics.

In 1973,  instructed teachers to no longer correct students who used conservative Riksmål in their writing, provided these forms were used consistently.

The end of Samnorsk
The 1973 recommendation by the council was formally approved by parliament in 1981 in what was known as the "liberalization resolution" (). With the exception of a few "banner words" (Riksmål  rather than Bokmål  ("now"),  rather than  ("after"),  rather than  ("snow"), and  rather than  ("language"), traditional Riksmål forms were fully accepted in contemporary Bokmål, though all the radical forms were retained.

On 13 December 2002 the Samnorsk ideal was finally officially abandoned when the Ministry of Culture and Church affairs sent out a press release to that effect. The primary motivation for this change in policy was the emerging consensus that government policy should not prohibit forms that are in active use and had a strong basis in the body of Norwegian literary work.

This was further formalized in the so-called 2005 reforms that primarily affected orthography for Bokmål.  So-called secondary forms () were abolished. These forms were variant spellings that would be tolerated by the general public, but disallowed among textbook authors and public officials. The 2005 changes now gave all allowable forms equal standing. These changes effectively recognize approximately full usage of Riksmål forms.

Urban/rural divide

In modern Norway, many of the largest urban centres' municipal governments have chosen to declare themselves neutral. However, it can be seen that several large centres have formally adopted the use of Bokmål, and very few larger urban centres use Nynorsk exclusively:

Future evolution of Norwegian
The Samnorsk issue turned out to be fateful for two generations of amateur and professional linguists in Norway and flared up into a divisive political issue from time to time. By letting Bokmål be Bokmål (or Riksmål) and Nynorsk being Nynorsk, the Norwegian government allowed each—in principle—to develop on its own.

As Norwegian society has integrated more with the global economy and European cosmopolitanism, the effect on both written and spoken Norwegian is evident. There is a greater prevalence of English loan words in Norwegian, and some view this with great concern.

In 2004, the Norwegian Language Council issued Norwegian orthography for 25 originally English language words, suggesting that for example "bacon" be spelled . This was in keeping with previous practices that made  the Norwegian writing for "station", etc., but the so-called " reforms" fell on hard ground, and  was one of the spelling changes that was voted down.

There is also a trend, which has been ongoing since the dissolution of the Dano-Norwegian Union in 1814, to assimilate individual Swedish loan words into Norwegian. Although it lost momentum substantially after the dissolution of the union between Norway and Sweden in 1905 it has remained an ongoing phenomenon of Norwegian linguistics. Indeed, the prominent Norwegian linguist Finn-Erik Vinje characterizes this influx since the Second World War as a breaking wave.

There is further a concern in some quarters that poor grammar and usage is becoming more commonplace in the written press and broadcast media, and consequently among students and the general population. While the sociolinguistic view that language constantly evolves is duly noted among these critics, there is some call for more vigilance in written language. Broadcast programs such as Typisk Norsk and Språkteigen are intended to raise the general awareness of the Norwegian language; philologist and former director of Språkrådet Sylfest Lomheim is working to make language issues more visible.

 See also 
 Faroese language conflict
 Comparison of Norwegian Bokmål and Standard Danish
 Spynorsk mordliste
 Greek language question—a similar dispute in Greece that is now resolved

 References 

 Sources and  bibliography
 Petter Wilhelm Schjerven (ed.): Typisk Norsk, Oslo, NRK/Dinamo forlag. .
 Egil Børre Johnsen (ed.): Vårt eget språk, Aschehoug. .
 Oddmund Løkensgard Hoel: Nasjonalisme i norsk målstrid 1848–1865, Oslo, 1996, Noregs Forskingsråd. .

Further reading
Fintoft, Knut  (1970) Acoustical Analysis and Perception of Tonemes in Some Norwegian Dialects (Universitetsforl)
Haugen, Einar Ingvald (1948)  Norwegian dialect studies since 1930 (University of Illinois)
Husby, Olaf  (2008)  An Introduction to Norwegian Dialects''   (Tapir Academic Press)

External links 
 Norwegian Language Council (Språkrådet)
 Noregs mållag
 Riksmålsforbundet
 Landslaget for språklig samling (samnorsk.no)

Conflict
Language conflict
Spelling reform
Linguistic purism
Linguistic controversies