[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# University of Minnesota Marching Band

time, having also traveled down Washington Avenue through the center of campus. The parade has been cancelled only ten times in the past during both world wars and the Vietnam War. In 1942, the parade was billed as "the largest parade in the world" at 2 miles long and featuring 170 cars and floats.

Mound of Sound 
In addition to the formations included as part of its pregame show, the Minnesota Marching Band is known for its traditional "Mound of Sound", a halftime drill formation where, as described by the announcer, they "put a really big band in a really small circle." Performed since the early 1990s in the Metrodome, the drill form is executed while playing Glenn Miller's big band hit "In the Mood", and consists of the band forming concentric circles and collapsing them to fit all 320 musicians in a 12-meter wide mound-shaped circular formation in the center of the field.  At the conclusion of the song, the "mound" is expanded outward once again.

"Hail! Minnesota"

At the end of every rehearsal, performance, or other band event, the members, faculty, and staff of the marching band join together to sing an a capella arrangement of the university's alma mater and the state hymn, Hail! Minnesota. In addition, after every home football game, the football players and coaches gather in front of the band and student section and sing while the band plays the piece.

"Better Dead than Red" 
Until 2021, the phrase "Better Dead than Red" was used often by the University of Minnesota Marching Band, as well as Gopher fans across all sporting events. The phrase refers to the rival Wisconsin Badgers, whose school colors are red and white. The slogan stems from a similar phrase used in the same manner or inversely during the Cold War conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union, referring to the symbolic red color of the Soviet flag. The phrase was yelled as part of a drum cadence by the marching band during parades, in the stands of the stadium, as well as during the pregame show, where the band and student section yelled the phrase during the dispersal of the Block M. In 2021, the phrase was taken out of the band's repertoire out of respect for Native Americans, among other groups.

Pregame Show

The University of Minnesota Marching Band performs one of the longest and most complex pregame shows of any band in the country.  In its entirety, it is roughly 17 minutes long and includes over 75 pages of drill, the majority of which is performed using chair-step style marching. There are 244 marching spots in the pregame block, out of the 320 total marching spots within the band. Periodically throughout the season, band members assess for a spot in the pregame block and in the section of Big Ten flags. The remaining members are responsible for managing the 40 by 25 yard ceremonial American Flag used during the National Anthem. The pregame show in its current configuration consists of the following:

Entry, Run-Cadence, and Fanfare

The band enters the field beginning with the tuba section, drumline, drum major, and twirlers, which march onto the field to a drum cadence while the band chants "er du klar?", the Norwegian phrase for "are you ready?". After those sections are in position, the announcer introduces both the band and the Golden Gopher Spirit Squads, and the band enters from the stadium tunnels and forms lines via "Run-Cadence," a fast-paced double-time high step cadence. The band proceeds to expand into a block formation while playing "Fanfare '87", as the announcer introduces the director, drum major, and twirlers.

Minnesota March

After the fanfare, the band marches downfield in a block formation while playing John Philip Sousa's Minnesota March, led by the drum major and Big Ten flags and bounded by the color guard on each side. As the band marches forward, the drum major stops mid-field and executes the traditional back bend. After centering on the fifty yard line, the band finishes Minnesota March while creating a diamond-shaped formation in the center of the field.

Gopher Spell-Out

Beginning in the diamond-shaped formation and marching into a rectangular block at the center of the field, the band plays either Go Gopher Victory when facing non-conference opponents, or the school song of an opposing Big Ten university. While either chanting during Go Gopher Victory or after playing the opposing team's school song, the band marches to form the word "GOPHERS" spelled out across the field, before returning to the previous midfield block formation.

Swinging Gates