[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of characters played by multiple actors in the same film

do DiCaprio as Amsterdam Vallon in Gangs of New York (2002)
 Isis Carmen Jones and Whoopi Goldberg as Deloris Wilson Van Cartier in Sister Act (1992)
 Bobby Anderson and Zachary Scott as Horace Woodruff Vendig in Ruthless (1948)
 Phillip Cooper and Wallace Beery as Pancho Villa in Viva Villa! (1934)

W
 Jimmy Butler and William Powell as Jim Wade in Manhattan Melodrama (1934)
 Josh Hutcherson and Dax Shepard as Walter in Zathura: A Space Adventure (2005)
 Codie-Lei Eastick and John C. Reilly as Dr. Watson in Holmes & Watson (2018)
 Charles Roskilly and Michael Keaton as Bruce Wayne in Batman (1989)
 Ramsey Ellis and Val Kilmer as Bruce Wayne in Batman Forever (1995)
 Eric Lloyd and George Clooney as Bruce Wayne in Batman & Robin (1997)
 Gus Lewis and Christian Bale as Bruce Wayne in Batman Begins (2005)
 Brandon Spink and Ben Affleck as Bruce Wayne in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016)
 Aaron Keeling and Liev Schreiber as Orson Welles in RKO 281 (1999)
 Joseph Mazzello and Jim Carrey as Joe Wenteworth in Simon Birch (1998)
 Marcie Leeds and Barbara Hershey as Hillary Whitney in Beaches (1988)
 Ty Tennant and Tom Glynn-Carney as Christopher Wiseman in Tolkien (2019)
 Blair Dunlop and Johnny Depp as Willy Wonka in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005)
 Alexandra Kyle and Judy Greer as Lucy "Tom-Tom" Wyman in 13 Going on 30 (2004)

X
 James McAvoy and Patrick Stewart as Charles Xavier in X-Men: Days of Future Past (2014)

Y
 Richard Vuu, Tsou Tijger, and John Lone as Pu Yi in The Last Emperor (1987)

Z
 Tarek Sharif and Omar Sharif as Yuri Zhivago in Doctor Zhivago (1965)

Characters played cooperatively by multiple actors at the same time

A
 Emani Sledge, Valerie Shusterov, Hannah Freiman, Rachel Corr, Will Denton, Sharon Wilkins, Shayna Levine, and Jennifer Jason Leigh as Aviva in Palindromes (2004)

C
 Carole Bouquet and Angela Molina were both cast in the role of Conchita in That Obscure Object of Desire (1977). They switched back and forth during the movie with no apparent pattern. Director Luis Buñuel had originally cast Maria Schneider for the role but could not work with her. When he decided to replace her, he joked about casting two actresses in the role. Producer Serge Silberman liked that idea and suggested Buñuel do it.

G
 Verne Troyer and Warwick Davis as Griphook in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (2001). American actor Verne Troyer's lines were dubbed by British actor Warwick Davis, who also played Professor Flitwick in this film (and subsequent Harry Potter films). Davis reprised his role as Griphook (both body and voice) in later instalments.

H
 Kien Shih and Keye Luke as Mr. Han in Enter the Dragon (1973)
Shih's English was very poor, so actor Keye Luke supplied his speaking voice.
 Arnold Schwarzenegger and an uncredited voice actor as Hercules in Hercules in New York (1970)
Schwarzenegger was cast based on his appearance, but the producers were initially unaware of his thick Austrian accent, and dubbed over his voice with a more classical voice actor. Some modern screenings of this have restored Schwarzenegger's voice to the film.

I
 Johnny Depp, Jude Law, and Colin Farrell as Imaginarium Tony in The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus (2009)
After the death of Heath Ledger one-third of the way through filming, production was shut down for a few months. Then it was re-started when the three actors agreed to complete Ledger's role.

L
 Jordan Warkol and Elizabeth Daily as Billy "Froggy" Laughlin in The Little Rascals (1994)
 Klinton Spilsbury and James Keach as The Lone Ranger in The Legend of the Lone Ranger (1981)
Spilsbury had the look, but his voice could not cut it. So, his lines were dubbed over by Keach.

M
 Lorene Yarnell and Joan Rivers as Dot Matrix in Spaceballs (1987)
Yarnell played Dot Matrix in costume, while Rivers provided the speaking voice.

O
 Noah Banks, Elizabeth Daily, Michael Haider, Billy Amman, Cristin Woodworth, and Zack O'Malley Greenburg as Lorenzo Odone in Lorenzo's Oil (1992)
Daily provided Lorenzo's vocal effects.

P
 Harvey Pekar and Paul Giamatti as Harvey Pekar in American Splendor (2003)

S
 Arnold Johnson and Robert Downey, Sr. as Putney Swope in Putney Swope (1969)
Downey dubbed over Johnson's speaking voice with his own.

T
 Toshishiro Obata and Michael McConnohie as Tatsu in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990)