[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Black Creek (Nescopeck Creek tributary)

am of the discharge, which is  per day. Just downstream of the discharge, the daily iron load is  and just upstream of the discharge, it is . Immediately downstream of the discharge, the manganese and acidity loads are  and , respectively. Immediately upstream of the discharge, the acidity load is .

Just downstream of the State Route 3020 bridge near Derringer, the load of aluminum in Black Creek is  per day. The daily loads of manganese and iron are  and . At the bridge at Tomhicken, the daily aluminum and iron loads are  and , respectively. The daily manganese load is . Downstream of a wastewater treatment plant, the daily aluminum and iron loads are  and , respectively. The daily manganese load is .

At the Hazleton Wastewater Treatment Plant, the daily aluminum load of Black Creek is . The iron load is  per day and the manganese load is  per day. The daily acidity load is . Behind the Hazleton High School, the daily aluminum load of the creek is . The iron load is  per day and the manganese load is  per day. The daily acidity load is . In the upper reaches of the creek, the daily aluminum load is . The iron load is  per day and the manganese load is  per day. The daily acidity load is .

Geography and geology
The elevation near the mouth of Black Creek is  above sea level. Elevation at the source is between  and . From its source to  downstream, Black Creek's elevation decreases at a rate of  per mile. For the next , elevation decreases at a rate of  per mile. From there to the mouth, elevation falls at a rate of  per mile.

Black Creek's topography is described in a 1921 book as "mountainous". The upper part of the creek is in a broad valley, the lower part in a narrow valley. There are some swamps in the upper reaches. The channel is sinuous, flowing through rock formations of sandstone and shale which include coal.

An area known as Black Creek Flats, situated along the creek near Hazleton, is on the Luzerne County Natural Areas Inventory, although damaged by mining in the past.

There is a cataract on Black Creek near Interstate 81. There are also strainers on the creek.

Watershed and recreation
The watershed of Black Creek, with an area of ., is in the 'Eastern Anthracite Middle Field', which is part of the Anthracite Upland Section of the ridge and valley physiographical province. Part of the watershed is drained by the Jeddo Tunnel, which discharges into Little Nescopeck Creek. Counties in the watershed include Luzerne County, Columbia County, and Schuylkill County. The creek's drainage basin is part of the lower North Branch Susquehanna River drainage basin.

It is possible to access the headwaters of Black Creek via Pennsylvania Route 309.

Black Creek flows through coal mining lands in its upper reaches and woodlands in its lower reaches. The creek is contaminated with runoff from Hazleton and coal mines, as well as with sewage and bacteria in its upper reaches.

It is possible to canoe on  of Black Creek during the spring within one day of heavy rain. Edward Gertler describes the scenery along the creek as "very good to poor" in his book Keystone Canoeing. Difficulty largely ranges from 1 to 4- with areas of 6. Gertler describes the creek as a "little-known whitewater wonder". Difficult rapids are found in the lower reaches among other places.

History
Coal mining has occurred in the watershed of Black Creek as well as watersheds of some of its tributaries such as Little Black Creek and Cranberry Creek.

In 1921, the three largest communities in the Black Creek watershed were Hazleton, Freeland, and West Hazleton, with populations of 25452, 6197 and 4715 respectively. Other communities in the watershed include Drifton, Jeddo, Rock Glen and Gowen, with 1921 populations of 2129, 377, 317 and 306 respectively.

In the early 1900s, the Pennsylvania Railroad followed Black Creek in its lower reaches. The Lehigh Valley railroad passed through the watershed's upper reaches. Main industries in the watershed at the time included coal mining and agriculture. Numerous tributaries of Black Creek were also used as water supply.

Biology
There are hemlocks in a glen in the lower reaches of Black Creek. Additionally, a number of species inhabit the Black Creek Flats, which are listed on the Luzerne County Natural Areas Inventory. These include the common roadside skipper, the seepage dancer, the bog copper, the Hartford fern, the elfin skimmer, the long dash, the eyed brown, and the Aphrodite fritillary.

See also
List of rivers of Pennsylvania
Little Nescopeck Creek

Notes

References

Rivers of Pennsylvania
Tributaries of Nescopeck Creek
Rivers of Luzerne County, Pennsylvania