[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bladder fiddle

fiddle), and in England a drone, "drone and string" or bladder fiddle.  In England it was used by traveling musicians. In Venezuela, the bladder fiddle is known as "marimba, tarimba, guarumba, guasdua, and carangano".  The name in Latvian is pūšļa vijole. In Lithuania, the instrument is the Pūslinė.

In Poland there is a variant that started as a costume accessory and has become a devil's violin, called the .

Slavic instrument
The Slavic peoples have a musical bow (Słowiański łuk muzyczny in Polish) which is pictured as having three strings (trzy struny).

Gallery
Hornbostel-Sachs classification are first in captions, then place and date.

Modern bowed instrument

The original pig-bladder instrument is still played with a bow in Lithuania as a traditional folk instrument, called a Pūslinė. Estonia has one as well, called the põispill. The instrument has between 1-3 strings and can be tuned with tuning pegs.

Modern percussion instrument

The modern boomba focuses heavily on loud percussion, typically consisting of a variety of percussion instruments attached to a wooden pole. The exact designs of a boomba vary, with much emphasis being put on the personalization of the boomba. Common features typically include a spring-loaded rubber base (much like a pogo stick), with percussion instruments such as bells and wood blocks attached. Boombas often also include a set of cymbals which crash as the boomba is bounced, and a tambourine which can be played with a drumstick or shaken as the boomba is played.

The boomba is similar in nature to the "stumpf fiddle", though the stumpf fiddle generally lacks the loud crashing cymbal on top.  It is this loud crash when bounced that makes the boomba distinct. An older, German variant of the stumpf fiddle and the boomba is the Teufelsgeige (), which is decorated with a Devil's head at the top of the pole.

A modern percussion instrument in Friesland is called the . A similar percussion instrument in Slovakia is the .

See also
Bladder pipe
Bar zither
 Estonian instrument, percussion "umba"

References

Anthony C. Baines. "Bumbass", Grove Music Online, ed. L. Macy (accessed August 20, 2006), grovemusic.com  (subscription access).

Further reading
Anthony C. Baines. "Bumbass", Grove Music Online, ed. L. Macy (accessed August 20, 2006), grovemusic.com  (subscription access).
 They're Happy They Play The Boomba And They're Dears. August 5, 1999, by Kathy Lauer-Williams, The Morning Call
 StumpFiddle.net (website down, archived link)
 Chip Bailey's Amazing Stumpf Fiddle Demonstration  at YouTube.com

External links
Picture of Estonian Poispillids being played, from 1979
Music video with two-string bladder fiddle from Eastern Europe,  appears to uses inflated bladder or close-looking substitute.
The bumbass, lagerphone, and tromba marina connection - Jon Rose Web - Includes bumbass audio

Bass monochords
American musical instruments
Music of Pennsylvania
German musical instruments
French musical instruments
English musical instruments
Belgian musical instruments
Estonian musical instruments
Lithuanian musical instruments
Polish musical instruments