[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# CMLL World Heavyweight Championship

o Jr. Universo 2000's second reign as champion lasted 1,225 days, the championship's longest reign. This record-breaking run ended on April 18, 2003, when Mr. Niebla won the title. Mr. Niebla was champion for 543 days before Universo 2000 regained the championship for his record-setting third reign.

On July 8, 2007, Dos Caras Jr. became the fourteenth overall champion. His reign lasted 533 days, but only saw him defend the title a few times, defeating Lizmark Jr. and Último Guerrero. On December 22, 2008, Último Guerrero won the championship from Dos Caras Jr., who shortly afterwards left CMLL to work for WWE. On April 2, 2009, Último Guerrero successfully defended the title against Rey Mendoza Jr. on an independent wrestling promotion show in Gomez Palacio, marking the first time the CMLL World Heavyweight Championship was defended on a non-CMLL promoted show. After a 963-day reign and 17 successful defenses, Guerrero lost the title to Héctor Garza on August 12, 2011. The championship was vacated on November 11, 2011, after Garza left CMLL for Perros del Mal Producciones, a group of former CMLL wrestlers who broke away from the promotion in late 2011. On January 1, 2012, El Terrible became the new champion when he defeated CMLL World Light Heavyweight Champion Rush in a decision match. The two had won a torneo cibernetico match a week earlier to earn spots in the match.

Máximo Sexy won the championship on January 30, 2015, by defeating El Terrible. On May 22, 2017, then-reigning champion Máximo Sexy was fired by CMLL for his involvement in an act of vandalism and the championship was vacated. On June 6, 2017, Marco Corleone won a 10-man torneo cibernetico match to become the new CMLL World Heavyweight Champion, but he vacated the title after 442 days when he left the promotion. Último Guerrero won the title for a second time when he defeated Diamante Azul in the finals of a tournament on October 16, 2018. After 1,074 days, Hechicero defeated Último Guerrero at CMLL 88. Aniversario to win the title. Hechicero lost the title on November 7, 2022 against Gran Guerrero.

Rules

The championship is designated as a heavyweight title, which means that it can only be officially competed for by wrestlers weighing  and above. In the 20th century, Mexican wrestling enforced the weight divisions more strictly, but in the 21st century, the rules have been occasionally ignored for the various weight divisions. The Heavyweight Championship was no exception as several champions were under the weight limit, including Héctor Garza, who was billed as weighing  when he won the championship and was thus considered a Junior Light Heavyweight. While the "world heavyweight" title is traditionally considered the most prestigious weight division in most professional wrestling promotions, CMLL places more emphasis on the lower weight divisions, and the CMLL World Heavyweight title is not considered the top CMLL championship.

With a total of 12 CMLL championships being labeled as "World" titles, the promotional focus shifts over time with no single championship being promoted as the "main" one. Championship matches are usually decided by two-out-of-three falls. On occasion, single-fall title matches have taken place, especially when promoting CMLL title matches in Japan, conforming to the traditions of the local promotion.

Tournaments

1991

The tournament to crown the inaugural CMLL World Heavyweight Champion ran from May 24 to June 9, 1991, and featured 16 competitors. The first round of the tournament saw two eight-man battle royals, each ending when four wrestlers were left in the ring. This was used to cut the field in half with the last four remaining wrestlers from each match advancing to the next round. Konnan, Rayo de Jalisco Jr., Black Magic, and Mascara Ano 2000 advanced in the first battle royal, while Brazo de Plata, Vampiro Canadiense, Universo 2000, and El Egipcio were eliminated. In the second battle royal, Nitron, Pierroth Jr., Pirata Morgan, and Cien Caras advanced while Fabulous Blondie, Gran Markus Jr., Máscara Sagrada, and El Egipcio were eliminated. The second round saw another pair of battle royals with four men in each, ending when two wrestlers were left in the ring. This narrowed the tournament down to the final four wrestlers, who faced off in traditional semi-finals matches, before the final match to crown the inaugural champion.

Tournament results