[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Israel–New Zealand relations

Israel–New Zealand relations are the foreign relations between the State of Israel and New Zealand. While Israel has an embassy in Wellington, New Zealand's embassy in Ankara, Turkey is accredited to the Israel. Diplomatic relations between the two countries date back to January 1949. New Zealand has exported a mixture of agricultural and manufactured goods to Israel. In return, Israel has exported a range of manufactured goods to New Zealand.  Bilateral relations between the two countries have been complicated by issues such as the 2004 Israel–New Zealand passport scandal, United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334, and the Israel-Palestine conflict.

Diplomatic representation
Israel has an embassy in Wellington with an honorary consulate in Auckland.

New Zealand's embassy to Turkey in Ankara is accredited to Israel. In addition, New Zealand has an honorary consulate in Tel Aviv.

History of bilateral relations

20th century

New Zealand forces serving with the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZACs) participated in the Allied Sinai and Palestine campaign of the First World War. In November 1917, these New Zealand soldiers came into contact with Jewish settlers in Rehovot and Rishon. While New Zealand forces maintained cordial relations with the Jewish community, they had tense relations with local Palestinian Arabs, which culminated in the Surafend affair which saw ANZAC forces kill the male inhabitants of Sarafand al-Amar in retaliation for the killing of a New Zealand soldier. These contacts plus the New Zealand Jewish community's interest in Zionism influenced the New Zealand Government's support for the Balfour Declaration's promise of creating a Jewish homeland in Palestine.

New Zealand voted in favour of the 1947 United Nations partition resolution, which led to the creation of the State of Israel, despite heavy pressure from the United Kingdom on all Commonwealth nations to abstain on the resolution. New Zealand gave de facto recognition to the State of Israel at the same time as the United Kingdom on 29 January 1949, and de jure recognition on 28 July 1950. The incumbent Prime Minister Peter Fraser, who also served as Minister of External Affairs, had extensive contacts with the New Zealand Jewish community and local Zionists including the Zionist Federation of New Zealand. He also expressed sympathy for the Jewish people following the Holocaust, supported a Jewish homeland in Palestine, and called for peace between Jews and Arabs.

In January 1973, Prime Minister Norman Kirk approved the establishment of an Israeli Embassy in Wellington following overtures by the Israeli Government. Following Kirk's death in August 1974, his successor Bill Rowling facilitated the opening of the Israeli Embassy in July 1975. To demonstrate New Zealand's policy of "even-handedness" towards Israel and Arab states, Rowling accepted credentials from both the Israeli and Egyptian Embassies on the same day. In addition, New Zealand voted to designate permanent observer status to the Palestinian Liberation Organisation in the United Nations. When the Israeli Charge d'Affairs Yosef Hassin protested, Rowling responded that New Zealand had voted to extend a voice to Israel in 1974 and was now extending the same right to the Palestinians.

21st century
New Zealand and Israel maintained an active diplomatic relationship over the start of the 2000s, which was complicated by later disputes. New Zealand's Minister for Research, Science and Technology, Pete Hodgson, visited in November–December 2000. A Knesset delegation visited New Zealand in August 2001. New Zealand Foreign Minister Phil Goff visited Israel in May 2003. A delegation of four senior Israeli Foreign Ministry officials traveled to New Zealand for the inaugural New Zealand-Israel Foreign Ministry Consultations in September 2003.

The Israeli embassy in Wellington closed in October 2002 due to financial reasons, but reopened in 2010 with Shemi Tzur appointed as the Ambassador to New Zealand. In June 2013 he was replaced by Ambassador Yosef Livne.

2004 passport scandal

On 15 July 2004, New Zealand imposed diplomatic sanctions against Israel, and in July 2005 suspended high-level contacts between the two countries, after two Israeli citizens, Uriel Kelman and Eli Cara, were accused of passport fraud in Auckland. They denied belonging to the Mossad, but received a six-month sentence for trying to enter the country illegally and working with organised criminal gangs. Prime Minister Helen Clark cancelled a planned visit to New Zealand by Israeli President Moshe Katzav, delayed approval for a new Israeli ambassador to New Zealand, and called the case "far more than simple criminal behaviour by two individuals" which "seriously strained our relationship."