[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Childlore

eration and/or physical activity with the listener, which can be conducted in larger group settings. As a result, children have the opportunity to work with one another through guided instructions, which facilitate effective and engaged interactions contributing directly to their social development.

For example, the nursery rhyme "Ring Around the Rosie" involves children dancing around in a circle as they recite a short and catchy rhyme:

Simply participating in these interactions in connections between movement and rhymes can allow children to engage with others, promoting social skills. Also, generally, nursery rhymes tend to involve repeated interactions between characters of all ages, genders, shapes and sizes. In this way, a child gradually develops an acceptance and respect for all people regardless of a person's background or cultural differences.

Likewise, traditional children's nursery rhymes have a similar beneficial impact on emotional development. Primarily, nursery rhymes serve as an effective practice providing nourishment and comfort inducing a calming effect on children, especially right before sleep.

Simply hearing nursery rhymes before falling asleep reminds children that they are in a familiar environment, which facilitates feelings of safety and a peace of mind. With that in mind, this provides a possible explanation for why non-parental caretakers often rely on nursery rhymes to alleviate the child's discomfort and uncertainty whenever their parents are absent. As a result, nursery rhymes serve as an effective tool for emotional development in building trust in uncomfortable situations.

Moreover, some traditional children's nursery rhymes may involve some sorts of conflict, which the characters within the nursery rhyme must find a resolution. At times, this may involve reconciling certain unwanted emotions of jealousy, anger, or sadness stemming from a multitude of causes. Consequently, this enables an teachable understanding of adversity and assisting in building strong emotional management skills in children.

A primary example of this lies within the vastly popular "Itsy Bitsy Spider" through the refrain:

In this instance, the spider is washed down from the top of the water spout for reasons outside of its control; however, the spider endures the rain and once again reaches the top of the spout. Although simple in concept, these traditional children's nursery rhymes instill the value of perseverance in spite of unavoidable obstacles and essentially improve the social and emotional development of children.

Cross-cultural observations 
Nearly every culture throughout the world has their own various forms of nursery rhymes. Although the theme of each rhyme varies across cultures, all of these distinct traditional children's nursery rhymes are designed to convey similar types of messages and tend to take the same shape with respect to meter, rhythm and rhyme. While there are a few stylistic differences for certain cultures as compared to others, these tend to be minor.

To elaborate, the anthropological approach provides insight into one of the major similarities that can be seen in nursery rhymes across cultures, which is the meter used. The goal of most nursery rhymes is to be told or sung to young children as a form of entertainment or as a means of learning certain lessons. To accomplish this goal, traditional children's nursery rhymes must take a simple form that can easily be learned and repeated by children. As a result, nursery rhymes typically take the shape of a repetitive and predictable pattern of stressed and unstressed syllables, known as isochronic meter. This meter does not necessarily have to take the form of repeating stressed and unstressed syllables one at a time, but will often leave as many as four unstressed syllables between each stressed syllable.  The simplicity of isochronic meter allows for this slight variability in the stressed syllable pattern such that each poem does not have to take the exact same form and can still be easily read in a very similar manner across various cultures. An example of this pattern of stressed and unstressed syllables can be seen clearly in the style of poems in several languages including English, Chinese, Bengkulu, and Yoruba in Nigeria.