[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Sanctuary city

be "an enforcement arm of the federal government" with respect to federal immigration law. He also stated that the city would not require proof of citizenship for granting business licenses. The Birmingham City Council subsequently passed a resolution supporting Birmingham being a "sanctuary city".

Arizona 
Arizona has banned sanctuary cities. Following the passage of Arizona SB 1070, a state law, few if any cities in Arizona are "sanctuary cities."  A provision of SB 1070 requires local authorities to "contact federal immigration authorities if they develop reasonable suspicion that a person they've detained or arrested is in the country illegally." 
 The Center for Immigration Studies, an anti-immigration group, labels only one city in the state, South Tucson, a "sanctuary city"; the label is because South Tucson does not honor ICE detainers "unless ICE pays for cost of detention".
In 2019, Tucson held a citywide vote on Proposition 205, which would have declared it a sanctuary city. However, the proposition failed 70–30. Amongst others, Democratic outgoing Mayor Jonathan Rothschild and mayoral candidates Steve Farley, Randi Dorman and eventual winner Regina Romero, alongside city councilmembers and US Senate candidate Mark Kelly endorsed a "No" vote.

Arkansas
Arkansas has banned sanctuary cities.

California
On October 5, 2017, Governor Jerry Brown signed a bill, SB 54, that makes California a "sanctuary state". It prohibits local and state agencies from cooperating with ICE regarding undocumented individuals who have committed misdemeanors. According to the National Immigration Law Center in 2016, about a dozen California cities have some formal sanctuary policy, and none of the 58 California counties "complies with detainer requests by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement."

 Berkeley became the first city in the United States to pass a sanctuary resolution on November 8, 1971. Additional local governments in certain cities in the United States began designating themselves as sanctuary cities during the 1980s.  Some have questioned the accuracy of the term "sanctuary city" as used in the US. The policy was initiated in 1979 in Los Angeles, to prevent the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) from inquiring about the immigration status of arrestees. Many Californian cities have adopted "sanctuary" ordinances banning city employees and public safety personnel from asking people about their immigration status.
 Coachella – 95% Latino, 2nd highest percentage Latino city in Southern California, adopted the sanctuary policy in 2015.
 Huntington Beach obtained a ruling from the state Supreme Court that the protections in California for immigrants who are in the country illegally do not apply to the 121 charter cities. The Orange County city is the first to successfully challenge SB 54.
 Los Angeles – In 1979, the Los Angeles City Council adopted Special Order 40, barring LAPD officers from initiating contact with a person solely to determine their immigration status. However, the city frequently cooperates with federal immigration authorities. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti did not use the phrase "sanctuary city" to describe the city because the label is unclear.
 San Francisco "declared itself a sanctuary city in 1989, and city officials strengthened the stance in 2013 with its 'Due Process for All' ordinance. The law declared local authorities could not hold immigrants for immigration officials if they had no violent felonies on their records and did not currently face charges." The city issues a Resident ID Card regardless of the applicant's immigration status. The 2015 shooting of Kathryn Steinle provoked debate about San Francisco's "sanctuary city" policy.
 Seaside –  On March 29, 2017, Seaside became Monterey County's first sanctuary city.
 Williams – 75% Latino, largest percentage Latino town in Northern California, adopted the policy in 2015.

Colorado
On May 29, 2019, Governor Jared Polis signed House Bill 1124 immediately prohibiting law enforcement officials in Colorado from holding undocumented immigrants solely on the basis of a request from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.