[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of South African slang words

r give someone lip ("Are you tuning me skeef?")
 zamalek – Black Label Lager, locally brewed under licence; derived from the Egyptian football team of the same name because of the team colours. A very popular local beer because of its high alcohol content.

Slang words from Afrikaans (Afrikanerisms)

A–M 
aya – brother and rasta 
Abba – not to be confused with Swedish pop-group ABBA, it is a title given to God the Father, derived from the Aramaic word for father.
abba – to carry someone (normally a child) on one's back.
africtionary – Website for African Slang dictionary.
 ag man – oh man; ag as the Afrikaans equivalent to "oh" (pronounced \jach\ like German ACHtung), "man" pronounced as in "mun" in "munches".
 ag shame – both an expression of pity and sorrow, depending on context: Ag shame, daardie baba is te oulik! (Aw, that baby is so cute!); Ag shame, die arme hond is dood. (Ah shame, the poor dog died.)
 antie – an older female authority figure. Derived from the English "aunt", with the original meaning still intact.
 anties – breasts/boobs or plural of the word "aunt"
 aweh/awe (pronounced \AAAH-WHE\) – said in excitement, as in: 'Aweh; my boss said I can go home early today.', 'or 'Ok, cool'.' Same as the English pop culture slang 'yas'. The word has many meanings or uses: "hello", "goodbye", "yes", "cool". Also associated with prison use. (Greeting)  "Aweh, my bru." (Hello my friend). Similar: howzit, yooit, hoesit, yo.
 babbelbekkie – someone who talks a lot
 babelaas / babbelas – hangover (of Xhosa origin)
 bakgat – cool; expression of appreciation for something very well accomplished
bakore - lit "bowl ears", refers specifically to people who have Protruding ears, like a bowl's handles.
 bakkie – a utility truck or pick-up truck, now a mainstream word in South African English. Can also refer to a small plastic container/bowl.
 balla – lit. "balls". Refers to the scrotum or penis.
 ballie - close male friend. Sometimes used to refer to an older man. Can also be used to describe an old man as irritable or crabby.
 ouballie - father. "My 'ouballie' always used to tell us this story."
 balsak – lit. "ball-sack". Refers specifically to the scrotum.
 bangbroek – lit. "scaredy-pants"
 befok – really good, exciting, cool; as in "The rock-show was befok." (Do not confuse with gefok.). Also means to be extremely angry(kwaad); as in "Ek is nou so befok". Can also mean "crazy" in a very strong sense, as in "Are you befok?" – derogatory. Can also mean "to have sex with".
 befoetered/bedonnered/bemoerd – lit. "extremely angry" similar to "diedonnerend", etc. Usually used to refer to a person who is often in a very bad mood.
 bergie – from Afrikaans berg, which translates to "mountain", originally referring to vagrants who sheltered in the forests of Table Mountain; now a mainstream word for a particular subculture of vagrants, or homeless persons, especially in Cape Town.
 beter bang Jan, as dooie Jan – lit. "better to be a scared Jan rather than a dead Jan". English equivalent is "better to be safe than sorry".
 bietjie-baie – lit. "a little bit too much". "bietjie" (a little bit – "be-key") and "baie" (a lot – "bye-ya")
 bielie – a butch, yet friendly and often brave man with a lot of stamina. Someone who will lovingly do something tough no matter if the odds are stacked against him. Derived from the folk song "Jan, Jan, Jan, die bielie van die bosveld". Which describes a man (Jan) who is willing to do any form of hard labour with a smile on his face.
 blerrie/bladdy hell – damn/damnit. Originally from the British English phrase "bloody hell".
 bliksem – strike, hit, punch; also used often as an expression of surprise/emphasis. It derives from the Dutch word for "lightning", and often occurs in conjunction with donner. "Bliksem! Daai weerlig was hard!". (Damn! That lightning-strike was loud!) Used as a curse in Afrikaans: "Jou bliksem!" (You bastard!)
 bliksemse – lit. "damn thing" Used in conjunction with "donnerse".
 bloutrein – literally "blue train", referring to methylated spirits, sometimes used for drinking (filtered through a loaf of white bread). Also refers to the Blue Train, a luxury train that travels from Johannesburg to Cape Town via the Trans Karoo rail-line aka "Transkaroo".
 boef – lit. "law-breaker". Refers to any person who has broken a law and got away with it. Derived from the Afrikaans word of the same spelling for "to cuff" (i.e. to arrest, or get arrested). The plural "boewe", refers both to multiple persons in arrest and the handcuffs themselves. Considered outdated as "bliksem" and "skelm" are more commonly used.
 boer – literally "farmer" in Afrikaans. (pronounced boo-(r)). Also the verb "to farm".
 boer maak 'n plan – "farmer makes a plan" is an expression used to refer to a creative solution, often low-cost and rather innovative.
 boererate – a number of local home remedies that are super effective and cheap. May also be applied to DIY projects.
 boerewors – a very popular mixed-