[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Yosef Qafih

וען ונטען, הלכות נחלות
 Appended to this is Rabbi Kapach's listing and explanation of "מפי השמועה" and "מפי הקבלה" in Mishneh Torah (34 pages).
 Sefer Shofetim (Hebrew: ספר שׁוֹפְטִים)
 Volume 22: הלכות סנהדרין והעונשין המסורין להן, הלכות עדות
 Volume 23: הלכות ממרים, הלכות אבל, הלכות מלכים ומלחמות 

 Sefer Hamitzvot, in original Arabic with facing Hebrew translation (5731 [1971]). This edition succeeded the Rambam L'Am edition of Sefer HaMitzvot (5718 [1958]) for which Rabbi Qafih provided his translation and notes. In his later edition Rabbi Qafih repeatedly called out the former edition for its printing of errors against his agreement and without his knowledge, emphasizing that it should not be relied upon.
 Based on what was then the newly-published edition of Rambam L'Am, Rabbi Dr. Charles B. Chavel translated Sefer HaMitzvot, published in two volumes by the Soncino Press in 1967 as The Commandments (Sefer Ha-Mitzvoth of Maimonides). Soncino Press described their edition as "the first complete English translation of the Sefer Ha-Mitzvoth based upon Rabbi Kapach's work." As Rabbi Bell would later note, "neither Rabbi Chavel nor Soncino were aware of Rabbi Kapach's reservations about the 1958 edition," as only 13 years thereafter, in 1971, would Rabbi Qafih supersede this Mossad Harav Kook edition.
 Based on Rabbi Qafih's edition with the original Arabic, Rabbi Berel Bell produced an English translation (from Qafih's Hebrew) of the mitzvot in two volumes. His English translation, however, lacks Maimonides' Introduction and Principles.
 Guide for the Perplexed in original Arabic with facing Hebrew translation (later editions have Hebrew only, in one volume).
 Iggeroth haRambam, in original Arabic with facing Hebrew translation.
 T'shuvot haRambam (with either Rabbi Qafih's translations or summarizations), printed in Qafih's notes throughout the Mishneh Torah. These translations were posthumously collected and appended to the end of the reprint (Rubin Mass and Makhon Moshe, Jerusalem, 2014) of Blau's four-volume edition of Maimonides' Responsa.
 Ba'alei ha-Nefesh by Ra'avad with Sela' ha-Maḥloḳot of the רז"ה.
 Responsa and Rulings of Ra'avad (Hebrew: תשובות ופסקים לראב"ד).
 Questions and Responsa of the Ritva (Hebrew: שו"ת הריטב"א), Jerusalem, Mossad Harav Kook, 1978, edited with an introduction and notes.
 Maor Haafelah by Nethanel ben Isaiah, in original Arabic with accompanying Hebrew translation.
 Commentary on the Early Prophets by Avraham ben Shlomo, in original Arabic with facing Hebrew translation (in multiple volumes).
 Midrash Habeiur, in original Arabic with facing Hebrew translation.
 שאלות ר' חטר בן שלמה, in original Arabic with facing Hebrew translation.
 ספר המעלות לדרגות ימות המשיח, in original Arabic with facing Hebrew translation.
 Kitāb al-Ḥaqāyiq - Sefer ha-Amitiyyuth (כתאב אלחקאיק - ספר האמתיות), in original Arabic with facing Hebrew translation.
 Collected Papers (three volumes) 
 Volume 1 (1989): Halacha [and Divrei Torah], Philosophy, Sages' Writings. Among its contents the following are freely available online (from their original sources of publication):
 בירור בדין „הגונב את הקסוה" (originally published in 1983).
 על חודש תמוז (originally published in 1964).
 Responsa of Rabbeinu Jacob of Ramerupt (Rabbeinu Tam) (originally published in 1968).
 Volume 2 (1989): Maimonidean Doctrine, Yemenite Jewry. Among its contents the following are freely available online (most from their original sources of publication):
 "ופליגא" במשנת הרמב"ם (originally published in 1983).
 Hayyim Habshush's "History of the Jews in Yemen" (originally published in 1958; with English abstract).
 The Book Dofi Ha-zeman ("The Vicissitudes of Time"), of R. Sa'id Sa'adi: Events befalling the Jews of Yemen during the Years 1717—1726 (originally published in 1956; with English abstract).
 Tribulations of Yemen (originally published in 1961; with English abstract).
 משפטים בתימן (newly typeset online edition).
 בתי כנסת בתימן (newly typeset online edition, with photos absent from Collected Papers).
 כותבי ומעתיקי ספרים בתימן (newly typeset online edition, with photos absent from Collected Papers).
 מעמד האשה בתימן (newly typeset online edition).
 'לאז' או 'כחאל' (originally published in 1982).
 Volume 3 (posthumously published in 2001): Sources, Miscellanies. Among its contents the following is freely available online (from its original source of publication):
 הערות אחדות על שני תרגומים מערבית לעברית (originally published in 1994).
Material not collected therein (but listed in the bibliography)
 Shavuoth in Yemen.
 Portions of three unknown early Judeo-Arabic commentaries to the Bible and a Judeo-Arabic commentary to Sefer Yetzira.