[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

Foriș's first-hand executioner. The definitive confession provided by Pintilie acknowledged that the roles had been distributed as follows: "My driver hit him over the head, just one hit [...] I dug the pit myself, I handled all of that [...]. It was both of us who killed [Foriș and the other two]".

Also that year, Ceaușescu made a show of his opposition to the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, and prepared the Romanian population for resisting one such punitive incursion. Mihai Viorel Țibuleac, who was part of Ceaușescu's security detail during these events, reports that: "Each and every party session had discussions concerning Pantelei Bodnarenko, or Pantiușa, as a traitor to this country, one who was greatly detrimental for Romania." Upon the end of the crisis, although formally sidelined and expelled from the party ranks, Pintilie still received the occasional honor. One such situation came in 1971, when he was awarded the Tudor Vladimirescu Order, Second Class. Those acknowledged in the same manner included Ana Toma, as well as dramatist Aurel Baranga; the latter's presence allowed for the circulation of a malicious pun, referring to the ceremony as Ranga și Baranga ("The Crowbar-anga"). As noted by Jela, this popular joke, "worthy of the history books", should be credited to Jean Coller, a second-rank PCR cadre "who appears to have also been decorated that day". 

According to Apostol's hostile account, the gesture was Ceaușescu's way of thanking Pintilie for not having implicated him in Dejist crimes. Overall, none of the disgraced Securitate men were ever subject to a "criminal investigation into their past and there was not much investigation into the abused done against ordinary citizens either." As reported by historian Nicoleta Ionescu-Gură, Pintilie was shielded from prosecution by the expiring statute of limitations. Another historian, Ioan C. Popa, writes that, in the period after 1968, "some of [Pintilie's] former comrades" attempted to "diminish his responsibility and to have him viewed as a 'mere executor' of orders received from above." This ambiguous status was also underscored when his wife remained a favorite of Elena Ceaușescu, who insisted that she be recognized as belonging to the most prestigious class of women in the nomenklatura. 

"Neither completely annihilated nor entirely forgiven", beginning in 1979 the Securitate general found himself placed under constant surveillance by his former subordinates. Deletant describes Pintilie's final decades as "solitary, drunken stupor." The same is recounted by Tismăneanu, who describes Pintilie, now isolated in his new home on Kiseleff Road, as falling back into a "state of prostration, alcohol-driven apathy and feigned amnesia". The same author alleges that "Pantiușa" was allowing himself a familiarity with anti-communist messages, tuning into Radio Free Europe "for hours on end." The aging Pintilie also agreed to have interviews with Câmpeanu, who was interested in documenting the reasons behind Ceaușescu's ascent. As reported by his guest, he was downplaying claims that Dej had ever groomed Ceaușescu as his successor. General Pintilie died in Bucharest on August 11, 1985. Oprea believes that this happened at a villa in Primăverii, "after a long and solitary drinking binge, an unfiltered cigarette always hanging in the corner of his mouth, down to his final hours." He was buried with full honors at the Ghencea Military Cemetery. 

The Pintilies had two adoptive children: Radu, who died at some point in the late 1970s or early 1980s, and Ioana, who trained as an architect and settled in Israel. Ana Toma lived through the anti-communist revolution of 1989 and died in 1991, alone and almost completely blind. "Pantiușa" himself preserves a negative image with the Romanian public and scholarly community. A fictionalized version of him appears briefly in Gabriela Adameșteanu's 2010 novel, Provizorat, where he rapes a female prisoner, the Iron Guard-sympathizing Sorana. The same year, Constantin Popescu Jr. released his film Portrait of the Fighter as a Young Man, noted for highlighting Pintilie as the main villain, and for accurately depicting his methods.

Câmpeanu suggests that, like Georgescu, Pintilie was Dej's man within the "forces of repression", helping the Caransebeș prison faction (rather than the larger PCR) establish full control over Romania. As rated by Tismăneanu, Bodnarenko and Nicolschi were "Soviet spies", whose cooperation with Dej remains key in understanding how the Securitate and state terrorism could emerge in Romania. He argues: "Communist crimes were carried out by real-life humans (if we may call them humans). Pantiușa was one of these great criminals." In a 2010 interview, Ioana Pintilie (married Constantin) defended her adoptive father and mother against such verdicts: "it hurts me that people who had known these two folks never wrote so much as a phrase about there being some humanity to them".

Notes