[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Global Human Rights Defence

y protests from fundamentalist groups who have made open calls for violence against the religious minorities in Pakistan. The protestors demanded that the Pakistan government must include Asia Bibi's name on the Exit Control List, in the hope that it would prevent her from flying out of the country.

Mr. Vivek, GHRD's Human Rights Officer asked him about Asia Bibi's name being put on Pakistan's Exit Control List, he replied that under the legislation, a person's name can be put onto the Exit control list only if there is a criminal case or a case of criminal fraud pending against the person. Asia Bibi does not have any pending cases against her, so her name cannot be placed on the Exit Control List. Moreover, in so far as the agreement between the government and the protesters was concerned, the agreement has no constitutional or legal validity

Kashmiri Pandits (2018) 
On 1 October 2018, the GHRD sent a letter to  Mr. Antonio Guterres, United Nations Secretary General, to raise the issue of the Kashmiri Pandits. They warned:

"Kashmiri Pandits, a religious minority group in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, have been systematically persecuted by the majority community since 1989. Kashmiri Pandits were forced to flee their homes and move to other parts of the country in order to save their lives, those who remained were mercilessly killed or subjected to other inhumane acts. Moreover, their religious places have been desecrated and vandalized. A brutal campaign of terror, murder, rape and arson and has been unleashed by the majority community which will stop at nothing to make sure that Kashmiri Pandits are completely wiped out from the region. There is an intentional attempt to bring about the physical destruction of the entire group."

The GHRD called for a need for the United Nations to address the situation of Kashmiri Pandits, before they are completely wiped out from the region. 

They asked for the United Nations to meet with the Global Kashmiri Pandit Diaspora (GKPD), a collective organization with members in India, USA, Australia, Canada, Singapore and Europe. It consists of volunteers who have pledged to work towards the betterment of the Kashmiri Pandit community at all levels be it political or socio-economic and cultural.

Cases

GHRD verdict on the Pabna rape case (2015) 
On 13 March 2015, a 20-year-old woman belonging to the minority Hindu community was gang-raped in Pabna, Bangladesh. The victim was abducted and taken to a nearby jungle, where she was threatened with a knife and raped by the perpetrators. The perpetrators had warned her that they would kill her and her parents in case she approached the police.

The incident generated widespread attention and the case was investigated by GHRD and its local partner Research and Empowerment Organization (REO). The organizations constantly monitored the developments in the case and also provided aid to the victim and her family.

GHRD and REO identified that the authorities are not investigating the case and held protests to raise awareness about the problem. A protest was held wherein a human chain was created along with student volunteers. This pressurized the authorities to initiate action. GHRD and REO also began lobbying and advocacy efforts in Bangladesh to seek responsibility from the authorities.

After a series of protests, the police authorities finally registered the First Investigation Report (FIR) and arrested the perpetrators, Mohammed Farid Hossain (27 years) and Mohammed Hafizul (24 years). On 28 October 2018, the trial court sentenced the accused to life imprisonment. The verdict was delivered by Justice Owarul Islam.

GHRD has been also been involved in rehabilitation activities on the ground so that the victims can continue living a dignified life in society. The victim in the Pabna case has been successfully rehabilitated and is currently working with GHRD's local partner in Bangladesh, REO.

Women's Rights March (2019)
Global Human Rights Defence (GHRD) organized an event on 7 March 2019 to highlight the persecution of religious minorities in Pakistan.

The march sought to focus international attention on the plight of minorities in Pakistan. The percentage of religious minorities in Pakistan has reduced from 23% to a mere 3.7% of the total population. Minorities are increasingly vulnerable to intimidation and attacks in Pakistan and often little is done to protect minority communities in the country.

Human Rights for Nirmala (2018) 

The GHRD helped organize a programme in Nepal for the advocacy of rights for women. Ms. Sukomal Bhattarai delivered a speech on the case of Nirmala, a 13-year-old girl who was raped and murdered. She used this case to spread a message that highlighted the prevalence of gender and religion based violence. In total 8 speeches were delivered and a panel of notables and 80 guests were present at the event.