[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Subtitle B of Title III of the Patriot Act

sury is also given the authority to instruct the Executive Directors to aggressively use the voice and vote of the Executive Director to require an auditing of disbursements made from their institutions to ensure that no funds are paid to persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism.

Sec. 361. Financial crimes enforcement network
FinCEN, established in 1990, was made a bureau in the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The head of the bureau is now appointed by the Secretary of Treasury and was formally given a variety of responsibilities and powers, including:
 Providing advice and making recommendations on matters relating to financial intelligence, financial criminal activities and other financial activities to the Under Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement.
 Maintain a government-wide data access service, with access, in accordance with applicable legal requirements, to:
 the information collected by the Department of the Treasury, including report information filed under the BSA;
 information regarding national and international currency flows;
 other records and data maintained by other Federal, State, local, and foreign agencies, including financial and other records developed in specific cases; and
 other privately and publicly available information
 Analyze and disseminate the available data in order to deal with financial crime.
 Establish and maintain a financial crimes communications center to furnish law enforcement authorities with intelligence information related to emerging or ongoing investigations and undercover operations.
 Furnish research, analytical, and informational services to financial institutions, appropriate Federal regulatory agencies with regard to financial institutions, and appropriate Federal, State, local, and foreign law enforcement authorities, in accordance with policies and guidelines established by the Secretary of the Treasury or the Under Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement, in the interest of detection, prevention, and prosecution of terrorism, organized crime, money laundering, and other financial crimes.
 Assist Federal, State, local, and foreign law enforcement and regulatory authorities in combatting the use of informal, nonbank networks and payment and barter system mechanisms that permit the transfer of funds or the equivalent of funds without records and without compliance with criminal and tax laws.
 Provide computer and data support and data analysis to the Secretary of the Treasury for tracking and controlling foreign assets.
 Coordinate with financial intelligence units in other countries on anti-terrorism and anti-money laundering initiatives, and similar efforts.
 Administer the requirements of the BSA, chapter 2 of title I of Public Law 91-508, and section 21 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, to the extent delegated such authority by the Secretary of the Treasury.
 Such other duties and powers as the Secretary of the Treasury may delegate or prescribe.
The U.S. Secretary of Treasury is also given responsibility for administering the government-wide data access service and the financial crimes communications center maintained by FinCEN.  also gave FinCEN guaranteed funding for the period of 2002 to 2005.

This section of the Patriot Act makes it a requirement of the Secretary of Treasury to report yearly on how to improve compliance of , which deals with the records and reports on foreign financial agency transactions. The Secretary submitted the initial report on April 24, 2002, and has submitted one every year except in 2004.

Sec. 362. Establishment of highly secure network
The U.S. Secretary of Treasury was charged with establishing a highly secure network to allow financial reports required under the BSA, chapter 2 of Public Law 91-508 or section 21 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to be filed electronically. The legislation also requires the secure network to send alerts and other information in relation to suspicious activities to financial institutions. The network was required to be finished within 9 months of the enactment of the Patriot Act. According to the testimony of Dennis Lormel, Chief of the Terrorist Financing Operations Section of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Counterterrorism Division, the USA Patriot Act Communication System was developed by FinCEN from such requirements.

Sec. 363. Increase in penalties for money laundering
The Secretary of Treasury was given the authority to issue money penalties in an amount equal to not less than twice the amount of the transaction, but not more than US$1,000,000, on any financial institution or agency who commits a civil or criminal violation of International counter money laundering measures.