[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bosco Adventure

bit cowardly and shy, Otter knows how to be very useful in the same time. He is the engineer of the Bosco ship, as he lights the fire and keeps it strong in order for Bosco to travel. He spends most of the time aboard in the loft. He usually solves problems together with Tutty. He's a good cook too.

Minor characters
 Voiced by Hiroko Fukujun
Speak is Apricot's mechanical bird who looks a lot like a toucan, but actually bears resemblance to a parrot because it repeats words spoken to it. Tutty fixes it first time after being hit by lighting, in order to hear Apricot's plea for help, and then for the second time to the point where it could communicate with others instead of repeating words. Speak is very close to Apricot. This character doesn't appear in episodes 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 14, 15, 16, 20 and 24.
 Voiced by Kôhei Miyauchi
A noble man from Fountain land, Ender appears in episodes 13-21 and 26. He carried the message to Apricot and informed her more about her quest and its utmost importance for the whole planet. He did not get on well with the rest of the crew at the beginning, especially because he could not understand how they called her Apri instead of Apricot, as it showed disrespect towards a royal princess. The tensions diminished as the story moved on, and he helped Frog, Tutty and Otter in many occasions.
 Voiced by Kôhei Miyauchi
Wise owl of the Bosco forest. Appears in the first episode when Otter asks him for help with Speak. Appears later in most of episodes with other characters from forest as a part of a short sequence with a small instructive story that was shown at the end of most episodes before the closing titles.
 Voiced by Naoko Watanabe
Funny rabbit from Bosco forest.
 Voiced by Hiroko Emori
Funny hedgehog from Bosco forest.
 Voiced by Masaharu Satō
Funny crow from the Bosco forest.
 Voiced by Miki Itou
Another rabbit, also from Bosco forest.
 Voiced by Chieko Honda
Racoon from the Bosco forest.
 Voiced by Kumiko Takizawa 
Ornith, Crow's passion, inhabitant of Bosco forest.
 Voiced by Daisuke Gōri
Appears in episode 2, on the Sleepy Giant's mountain.
 Voiced by Asami Mukaidono  
Appears in episodes 3, 4, 23, 25 and 26. She inhabits the valley that Bosco crew reaches on their journey to Fountain land. She is peaceful and lives in amity with the citizens of the valley's village. The kidnapping of the Baby Dragon maddens her and for a brief time she becomes an enemy for the Bosco crew until they save the baby from Hoodman.
 Voiced by Naoko Watanabe 
Appears in episodes 3, 4, 23, 25 and 26. Gets kidnapped by Jack and Franz and serves as Hoodman's bait for Apricot. In the end, she saves the Baby Dragon and returns him to his mother.
 Voiced by Takeshi Aono
Appears in episodes 8 and 9, he is a ruler of the Oasis.
 Voiced by Ritsuo Sawa
Leon's counselor, appears in episodes 8 and 9.
 Voiced by Hiromi Tsuru
Appears in episodes 10, 11 and 25. It lives alone on a mysterious deserted island where Bosco gets shipwrecked. With help from Messenger, Hoodman convinces Unicorn that members of the Bosco crew are devils. After Hoodman uses Unicorn solely for his own malicious agenda and leaves it with its leg jammed inside a rock, Apricot and Frog help it and prove that they are not evil.

Enemies

Main characters
 Voiced by Banjo Ginga
A cloaked man, dressed in black, Hoodman is Scorpion's mercenary. He is Jack's and Franz's boss and the leader of big air ship called after his master - Scorpion. Together with his aides, Hoodman haunts the Bosco ship, which usually twists the episodes' plot. In the beginning we see him as a fierce, strong and scary leader, but as the story moves on he becomes more euphoric, stressed and devastated, mainly because of his incompetent aides and Damia's intervention later in the series.
 Voiced by Sanji Hase
Jack is Hoodman's cat-like servant who always goes as a team with Franz. He looks fierce, which shows to be misleading as the story develops. He often uses various weapons to attack the Bosco ship, such as bombs, catapults, stone throwers and others.
 Voiced by Kenichi Ogata
Franz is Hoodman's dwarf-like servant and bears certain resemblance to Ender. He drives the Scorpion, and likes to eat a lot.