[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Theodor Oberländer

wenty years ago)-did not occur to him. In 1986, Oberländer received the Bavarian Order of Merit from the state of Bavaria. The GDR conviction of Oberländer was declared null and void by the Berlin Kammergericht in 1993. At the end of his life, Oberländer became involved in anti-immigration politics.

A preliminary inquiry into Oberländer's role in connection with the unlawful killing of a civilian in Kislovodsk in 1942 during his Bergmann leadership was opened by a district attorney in Cologne in 1996. The allegations involved an interrogation of a female Soviet teacher; it was alleged that she was whipped and, after refusing to talk about suspected partisan activity, shot in the breast by Oberländer, and then left to die. Oberländer called those allegations "old Soviet lies". The inquiry was closed in 1998 due to lack of evidence.

Theodor Oberländer died in Bonn in 1998. He is the father of Professor Erwin Oberländer, a noted expert on Eastern European history, and the grandfather of Christian Oberländer, Professor of Japanese Studies.

Honours
Grand Cross with Star and Sash of Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany (1955)
Bavarian Order of Merit (1972)
Commander of the Legion of Honour

Publications 
Die agrarische Überbevölkerung Polens, Berlin 1935.
Die agrarische Überbevölkerung Ostmitteleuropas, in: Aubin, Hermann u. a. (Hrsg.): Deutsche Ostforschung. Ergebnisse und Aufgaben seit dem ersten Weltkrieg, Bd. 2 (Deutschland und der Osten. Quellen und Forschungen zur Geschichte ihrer Beziehungen, Bd. 21), Leipzig 1943, S. 416 – 427.
 Der Osten und die deutsche Wehrmacht: sechs Denkschriften aus den Jahren 1941–43 gegen die NS-Kolonialthese. Hrsg. von der Zeitgeschichtlichen Forschungsstelle Ingolstadt. Asendorf, Mut-Verlag. 144 S. In: Zeitgeschichtliche Bibliothek; Bd. 2. 
 Bayern und sein Flüchtlingsproblem, München 1953. – Die Überwindung der deutschen Not, Darmstadt 1954.
 Das Weltflüchtlingsproblem: Ein Vortrag gehalten vor dem Rhein-Ruhr-Club am 8. Mai 1959. Sonderausg. des Arbeits- u. Sozialministers des Landes Nordrhein-Westfalen. Verleger, Bonn: Bundesministerium f. Vertriebene, Flüchtlinge u. Kriegsgeschädigte. 1959.

References

Sources 
 Article about the events in Lviv/Lemberg  
 Fate of the Jews in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern and Oberländer's involvement 
 "Grenzlandpolitik" und Ostforschung an der Peripherie des Reiches. Das ostpreussische Masuren 1919–1945 by

External links 
 
  

1905 births
1998 deaths
All-German Bloc/League of Expellees and Deprived of Rights politicians
Christian Democratic Union of Germany politicians
Free Democratic Party (Germany) politicians
German Protestants
Nazi Party politicians
Holocaust perpetrators in Germany
Federal government ministers of Germany
Grand Crosses with Star and Sash of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
Commanders of the Legion of Honour
Humboldt University of Berlin alumni
Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich alumni
Collaborators who participated in the Beer Hall Putsch
People from Meiningen
People from Saxe-Meiningen
Sturmabteilung officers
University of Hamburg alumni
University of Königsberg alumni
Academic staff of the University of Greifswald
Members of the Bundestag for Bavaria
Members of the Bundestag for Lower Saxony
Members of the Bundestag 1961–1965
Members of the Bundestag 1957–1961
Members of the Bundestag 1953–1957
Abwehr personnel of World War II
Nazis convicted in absentia
Prisoners and detainees of Germany