[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS Yantic

ction for their property. While operating with the Asiatic Squadron – precursor of the Asiatic Fleet and the 7th Fleet – the gunboat put ashore her landing force at Shanghai, China, on 3 May 1874, in company with the landing party from the sidewheeler  to aid in quelling a riot by the local natives.

At other times during that Asiatic Squadron deployment, Yantic conducted a regular routine of cruises to ports ranging from Canton, Borneo, the Philippine Islands, and Hong Kong. In late 1874, when the Pacific Mail Steamer Japan foundered, Yantic searched for her. In the spring of 1875, the gunboat later protected the salvagers of Japans cargo from pirates.
Subsequently, Yantics crew took part in celebrations attending the unveiling of the statue of Admiral David G. Farragut in Washington, D.C., on 25 April 1881, before sailing later that spring to Mexican waters. In June, at Progreso, Yucatán, she investigated the detention of the American bark Acacia before returning northward to familiar waters off the eastern seaboard of the United States. In October 1881, Yantic also took part in observances commemorating the centennial of the Battle of Groton Heights and in festivities celebrating the centennial of the American victory at Yorktown, Virginia.

1883–1917
In June 1883, Yantic headed for the coast of Greenland, Comdr. Frank Wildes in command, as tender for the steamer Proteus, the latter carrying the men of the second relief party sent out to search for the exploration party led by Lieutenant Adolphus Greely. After touching at Disco, Upernavik, and Littleton Island, Yantic returned to New York on 29 September 1883. She carried back with her the men of the relief party, led by Lieutenant Garlington, and also the officers and men of Proteus, which had been crushed in heavy ice on 23 July 1883. Unfortunately, neither ship found any trace of the ill-fated Greely expedition.

Yantic "showed the flag" along the eastern seaboard and into the waters of South America and the West Indies from 1884 to 1897. In 1898, she was then loaned to the naval militia of the state of Michigan and served as training ship on the Great Lakes until 1917.

Training ship, 1917–1929
With America's entry into World War I, the navy expanded. Accordingly, the Civil War gunboat was recommissioned in 1917 and assigned as a training ship at the Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, Illinois. After the armistice, she was struck from the Navy List on 24 July 1919 and ordered sold. However, the venerable Yantic was withdrawn from the sale list on 31 December of the same year and again assigned duty as a training ship – this time with the Naval Reserve Forces of the 9th, 10th, and 11th Naval Districts. Commissioned on 15 May 1921, Yantic – designated IX-32 – operated out of Cleveland, Ohio, until 30 June 1926, when she was decommissioned and again loaned to the state of Michigan.

Yantic suddenly sank alongside the dock at the foot of Townsend Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, on 22 October 1929. Subsequent investigation revealed that the sinking had been caused by structural weakening, owing to "natural deterioration." Her hull is still buried in a filled-in boat slip in Gabriel Richard Park; her anchor sits in front of the Detroit Naval Armory.  She was struck from the Navy List on 9 May 1930. The ship log is nowhere to be found.

See also

Union Navy
Union Blockade

References

External links

 Photo gallery at navsource.org

Ships of the Union Navy
Gunboats of the United States Navy
Steamships of the United States Navy
Tenders of the United States Navy
Ships built in Philadelphia
1864 ships