[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Leigh Blackmore

read his poetry live at various venues in NSW including Live Poets at Don Bank (North Sydney), Yours and Owls Café (Wollongong), Jane's (Wollongong) and Philanthropy Tribe Book Cafe (Wollongong). Blackmore has also recorded readings of many of the poems of Clark Ashton Smith, e.g. "Chant to Sirius".

Recent poetry has appeared in anthologies and magazines including:
 Charles Lovecraft (ed) Avatars of Wizardry (Sydney: P'rea Press, 2012)
 S.T. Joshi and Stefan Dziemianowicz (eds) Dreams of Fear: Poetry of Terror and the Supernatural (NY: Hippocampus Press, 2013)
 Elizabeth R. McClellan & Ashley Brown (eds) The 2014 Rhysling Poetry Anthology: The Best Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Poetry of 2013 (SFPA, 2014). 
 Graham Phillips (ed) Cyaegha No 13 (Spring 2015).
 Gutiérrez, Juan Julio (ed) Beyond the Cosmic Veil (Horrified Press/Barbed Wire Butterfly Press, 2015).
 Adam Joffrain (ed) Nightgaunt No 2 (July 2015) [France; collaboration-translation with Adam Joffrain].
 Steve Lines (ed) Hallowe'en Howlings. (Calne, Wiltshire: Rainfall Books (UK), Oct 2015).
 Danny Gardner (ed) Can I Tell You a Secret?: Live Poets at Don Bank's 25th Anniversary Anthology. (Canberra: Ginninderra Press, Nov 2015.) 
 John T. Allen (ed) Songs of the Shattered World: The Broken Hymns of Hastur. (Ticketyboo Press/Green Sun Press [Createspace], Feb 2016)
 Sam Gafford (ed) Sargasso: The Journal of William Hope Hodgson Studies 3 (2016)
 Glynn Barrass and Frederick J. Mayer (eds). Anno Klarkash-ton. (Calne, Wiltshire: Rainfall Books, 2017). 
 Joshi, S.T. (ed) Penumbra No 1 (2020) and No 2 (2021) 9NY: Hippocampus Press)
 Frank Coffman (ed) Speculations III: Poetry from the Weird Poets Society (Mind's Eye Press, 2021)
 Calhoun, Pat (ed). Weird and Wondrous: An Anthology of Fantasy Poetry (2023)
 S.T. Joshi (ed). For the Outsider: Poems About H. P. Lovecraft (NY: Hippocampus Press, July 2023)

Blackmore has collaborated on poems with US poets Richard L. Tierney, Fred Phillips, K.A. Opperman and Ann K. Schwader; with French poet Adam Joffrain; and with Australian poet Charles Lovecraft. His poem "The Last Dream" was a nominee for Best Long Poem in the annual Rhysling Award.

In Oct 2021, three of Blackmore's weird poems were featured as part of a series of Hallowe'en recorded poetry readings hosted on Facebook by fellow weird poet Scott Couturier.

Reviews, radio and other works
Blackmore regularly reviews horror fiction for US critical journal Dead Reckonings. His past review work of horror and fantasy fiction includes contributions to AsIF.com, Galaxy Newsletter, Lovecraft Annual, The New York Review of Science Fiction, OzHorrorscope (online blog reviews), Prohibited Matter (column – "The State of the Nightmare"), Science Fiction (column – "Darkside"), Shoggoth, Skinned Alive, Spectral Realms,and the Sydney Morning Herald.

Blackmore's story "The Infestation" was read live to air by Steven Paulsen on Rick Kennett's 3CR and 3MDR Community radio guest shows "Pilots of the Unknown".

His story "Cemetery Rose" was read by the author and dramatized with sound effects for the Writing Show's Six Days of Hallowe'en podcast (cohosted by Australian Horror Writers Association) in 2006. An interview with Blackmore conducted by Writing Show host Paula Berenstein was broadcast concurrently.

His audio-walk sound piece Carbon Footprints was exhibited as an installation at the University of Wollongong (Faculty of Creative Arts), Oct 2007.

His radio play Calling Water was broadcast in late 2008 on ABC Radio National Airplay.

His collage artwork, which is influenced by the Situationist technique of detournement, has been exhibited at the First Australasian Thelemic Conference (Sydney, 1994) and published in various issues of Tertangala magazine.

Blackmore has adapted several works for short screenplay treatments and stage, including H.P. Lovecraft's The Music of Erich Zann (screenplay), Clark Ashton Smith's "The Double Shadow" (screenplay) and his own stories "Dr Nadurnian's Golem" (stage; workshopped at the University of Wollongong, Faculty of Creative Arts but unproduced) and "Fire on the Ghost Train" (screenplay, as "Inferno").

See also
List of horror fiction authors

Notes

References
S.T. Joshi Emperors of Dreams: Some Notes on Weird Poetry (Sydney: P'rea Press, 2008), pp. 89–90.
S.T. Joshi and Stefan Dziemianowicz (eds). Supernatural Literature of the World: An Encyclopedia. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 2005, pp. 1409–10.
Bryce J. Stevens The Fear Codex: Australian Encyclopedia of Dark Fantasy & Horror (Jacobyte Books, CD-ROM, 2001).

External links

 Bio at Austlit Leigh Blackmore | AustLit: Discover Australian Stories
 Podcast of Cemetery Rose plus interview with Paula Berenstein of Writing Show.com
 Vodcast of Monsters and Bloodsuckers (aka 'Vampires, Werewolves and Man-made Monsters in Literature'), presented by Jennifer Byrne on Jennifer Byrne Presents
 Interview with Leigh Blackmore re: AHWA at View from Here magazine