[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Jack Lowe Sr.

et involved in the effort, and in the fall of 1975, he approached Lowe with the idea of getting the city's three largest ethnic groups to talk together in some semblance of equality and reach an agreement that would satisfy the great majority of the people. The Dallas Alliance Task Force was formed.

The Task Force membership fell into several informal groupings that generally reflected the racial or ideological make-up of the city, and the Task Force operated on the idea that developing the ability to agree was its most important goal. If a certain topic was going to be discussed at the next meeting, Lowe made sure to talk to everyone individually on the topic beforehand, so he knew the direction to take the meeting. The Task Force came close to falling apart came later on during a crucial period when Lowe was diagnosed with an irregular heartbeat. He had a pacemaker implanted, and his absence meant Task Force discussions broke down almost immediately. But a quick recovery was made, both for Lowe and the Task Force. The Task Force reached an agreement and presented its plan for desegregating Dallas public schools to Judge Taylor. The plan was accepted essentially as written.

Final years
Lowe continued his involvement with the Dallas Alliance and implementing school desegregation. Jack also helped to get the busing to run properly and to increase district revenue. The presidency of the Dallas Alliance passed to Walter Humann in 1976, but by 1978, Lowe was again elected president of the Alliance and began to direct its attention to county jail improvements. He became involved in a leadership training program and worked at increasing minority membership on civic boards. Lowe's last tenure with the Alliance began when he was sixty-five, and as its end neared two years later, the group was considering amending its bylaws to allow him to serve yet another term. But Jack collapsed as he was on his way to a Dallas Citizens Council Luncheon shortly before the end of his term as president, and he died over a week later on Thanksgiving Day, 1980. His son Jack Lowe Jr. succeeded him as CEO of Texas Distributors, which had been earlier renamed as TDIndustries.

Legacy
Jack Lowe Sr. Elementary School was opened in Dallas, TX, in recognition of Lowe's successful efforts to peacefully desegregate Dallas ISD.

References
 
 
 
 

1913 births
Rice University alumni
1980 deaths
20th-century American businesspeople
People from Farmerville, Louisiana
Businesspeople from Dallas