[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Gokongwei

the companies they own.

In February 2008, Forbes Asia magazine's first Heroes of Philanthropy list included four Filipinos – Gokongwei, Jaime Zobel de Ayala, Ramón del Rosario Jr. and Oscar López. The list was composed of four philanthropists each from 13 selected countries and territories in Asia.

Publications
On 29 August 2007, at the Ateneo de Manila University, Gokongwei's biography, John L. Gokongwei Jr.: The Path of Entrepreneurship, by the university's Dr. Marites A. Khanser, was launched, and it narrated the "riches-to-rags-to-riches" story of the tai-pan. Gokongwei stated that entrepreneurship is a way out of poverty. Khanser's book also enumerated the Nine Rules of business success that Gokongwei followed since he was still a young businessman. In 2002 Gokongwei donated P200-million to the undergraduate school of management. He also gave donations to University of San Carlos, Xavier School, De La Salle University, Sacred Heart School – Ateneo de Cebu and Immaculate Conception Academy (ICA).

Personal life
Gokongwei married Elizabeth Yu in 1958 and had six children (one son and five daughters) – Lisa, Robina, Lance, Faith, Hope and Marcia. All his children play an active role in the Gokongwei group. 

His eldest daughter, Robina, heads the operations of Robinsons Retail Holdings, Inc. (she owns Robinsons Malls), as the company's COO since 2002. His only son, Lance, currently leads the group as president and CEO of JG Summit.

He was a second cousin once removed of Andrew Gotianun Sr., the founder of Filinvest Development Corporation. Gokongwei's great-grandfather was a half brother of Gotianun's grandfather. He is also second cousins with the Gaisano family, with Doña Modesta Singson-Gaisano being his grandaunt (his grandfather's sister) which he used to call in Hokkien , under his great-grandfather, Don Pedro Singson Gotiaoco

Death 
Gokongwei died in Manila on 9 November 2019, at the age of 93. Exactly one week after his death, his widow Elizabeth Yu Gokongwei died at the age of 85.

See also
Universal Robina
JG Summit Holdings
Robinsons Retail
Emilio Yap

References

External links
 Lessons on Entrepreneurship from John Gokongwei's Life
 John Gokongwei Speech to the 20th AD Congress 

1926 births
2019 deaths
Ateneo de Manila University alumni
Billionaires from Fujian
Businesspeople from Cebu
Businesspeople from Xiamen
Businesspeople in aviation
Businesspeople in retailing
Businesspeople in shipping
Businesspeople in telecommunications
Businesspeople in the food industry
Filipino chairpersons of corporations
Chinese emigrants to the Philippines 
De La Salle University alumni
Filipino bankers
Filipino billionaires
Filipino businesspeople in real estate
Filipino company founders
Filipino investors
JG Summit Holdings