[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

astlemaine. A Free State soldier is also shot dead while on sentry duty at Rathmore courthouse.
Anti-Treaty forces mount an ambush at Kilfenora, County Clare. One Free State captain, Consadine is killed.
The Republican leader Tom Barry, who was captured in the Dublin fighting, escapes from an internment camp in Gormanston, County Dublin.
A Free State medical orderly named Lydon is shot dead by a Republican sniper as he cycles out of Tralee, despite the fact that he is unarmed and wearing a Red Cross armband.
September – A Free State garrison at Oldcastle, County Meath is attacked and forced to surrender its weapons. A mine is detonated against their barracks and fire is opened with machine guns. A civilian is killed in the crossfire.
30 September – A lorry of Free State troops is attacked with grenades and guns at O'Connell Bridge, central Dublin. One soldier is killed and three wounded. Four civilians are also wounded.
An off duty Free State soldier, Volunteer Shercock, is seized and shot dead near Dundalk.
31 September – The barracks in Cavan town is attacked early in the morning, a mine is exploded but there are no casualties.

October 1922
2 October – In County Mayo, Irregulars launch a night-time attack on Ballina Workhouse, where the National Army are garrisoned. The Irregulars bomb the workhouse gate. The gun battle last eight hours. Eventually, the Irregulars retreat via Knockmore.
3 October – 
The Free State offers an amnesty to Anti-Treaty fighters who surrender their arms and recognise the government.
Irregulars attack the National Army garrison at Ballyhaunis, County Mayo.
There are attacks on Free State troops at Cahir, County Tipperary and Omeath, County Louth. One officer, Captain Walshe is killed and three others wounded in an ambush in Tipperary. The telephone link between Dublin and Dundalk is cut.
4 October – 
Four Anti-Treaty IRA fighters and one Free State soldier are killed in an action at Upton, County Cork. National Army troops mount a sweep to try and occupy the Republican stronghold around Ballyvourney but meet with "stiff resistance".
Irregulars ambush Free State troops on Station Road, Claremorris.  No casualties were reported.  Later that evening, troops were dispatched by train from Claremorris. Heavy boulders were placed on the line, but the locomotive pushed the obstructions aside. Irregulars open fire on the train, but again, no one was injured.
Free State troops shoot dead a man they state is an 'Irregular', at Coolnamuck County Waterford who failed to halt at a checkpoint and arrest three others.
In ambush of a Free State motor patrol at Brennan's Glen, County Kerry, two National Army troops are killed and seven wounded by anti-Treaty fighters firing from concealed positions. An anti-Treaty prisoner who had been in Free State custody on the patrol was also killed. 
Two civilian Free State supporters are abducted and killed at Whitescross, County Cork.
A National Army officer, Captain Ignatius Redmond is assassinated in County Wexford, shot three times at close range.
5 October – An anti-Treaty IRA officer Sean O'Donoghue is shot dead by Free State troops in Cork city, who also arrest 39 men.
6 October – National Army officer Tony Lawlor shoots dead Republican prisoner, Patrick Mulrennan during a riot in the prison in Athlone.
Anti-Treaty fighters in Tullycrine, County Clare ambush a National Army column. A number of Free State troops and one Anti-Treaty IRA man are killed in the firefight.
A number of gun and grenade attacks are carried out by Republican fighters in Dublin. Three people are wounded. In Limerick, Republicans raid the hospital and free six of their prisoners who were being treated there.
One Anti-Treaty fighter is killed in action at White's Cross, County Cork.
7 October – Charlie Dalton, a National Army intelligence officer, arrests three boys, neighbours of his, Edwin Hughes, aged 17, Brendan Holihan aged 17, and Joe Rogers, aged 16, putting up Republican posters in Drumcondra, Dublin. The next morning they are found shot dead in a ditch in the quarries, Clondalkin, "riddled with bullets" according to the inquest doctor.
A National Army Lieutenant is found shot in the head on the road near Newtownbarry, County Wexford.
President Cosgarve's uncle is shot dead as his public house is robbed.
Two civilian pro-Treaty supporters are shot dead in Cork city and dumped in a turnip field, tied together.
9 October – 
A civilian, Henry Moore, was shot dead by raiders to his house at Stillorgan, county Dublin.
An ambush of a National Army patrol takes place near Enniscorthy, County Wexford, two Free State officers are mortally wounded and two civilians are wounded.
10 October – The Roman Catholic Bishops of Ireland issue a formal statement, supporting the Free State as the lawful and democratic government, denouncing the Anti-Treaty campaign as an unlawful rebellion and denying their fighters access to Holy Communion or Confession.
A Free State officer is killed in an