[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Vyborg Manifesto

The Vyborg Manifesto (, , ); also called the Vyborg Appeal) was a proclamation signed by several Russian politicians, primarily Kadets and Trudoviks) of the dissolved First Duma on .

In the wake of the 1905 Revolution, Russia's first modern parliament, the State Duma, was convoked. It rapidly became a voice of radicalism and liberalism, and was subsequently dissolved by the Tsarist government 72 days after convocation. Outraged, several of the members of the first Duma travelled to Vyborg in the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland, where they signed a 'manifesto' calling for 'passive resistance' which included evading taxes and defying conscription orders. 

The manifesto was met with 'universal indifference', which allowed the Tsarist authorities to silence the manifesto's contributors, and they were all banned from participating in future Dumas. The result was that the Kadet party turned towards conservatism and no longer consciously identifying themselves as a party for 'the people'.

Background
The Constitutional Democratic Party was formed in Moscow from 12 to 18 October 1905 at the height of the Russian Revolution of 1905 when Tsar Nicholas II was forced to sign the October Manifesto, granting basic civil liberties. The Kadets were to the immediate left of the Octobrists, another liberal party organized at the same time. Unlike the Octobrists, who were committed to constitutional monarchy from the start, the Kadets were at first ambiguous on the subject but demanded universal suffrage (even for women) and a Constituent Assembly that would determine the country's form of government. The Kadets were one of the parties invited by the reform-minded Prime Minister Sergei Witte to join his cabinet in October and November 1905, but the negotiations broke down over the Kadets' radical demands and Witte's refusal to drop notorious reactionaries like Petr Nikolayevich Durnovo from the cabinet.

In the wake of the 1905 Revolution, Russia's first modern parliament, the first Duma, was convoked. It rapidly turned into a revolutionary tribune, "a rhetorical battering ram against the fortress of autocracy". On the first day of the Duma, the parliamentarians condemned the government's political repression, and demands of amnesty of political prisoners became voiced from the Tauride Palace. The calls commenced after a boat full of representatives sailed down the Neva and passed by the Kresty prison, and a tearful and emotional waving encounter between the prisoners and the representatives happened. As the representatives found their seats Ivan Petrunkevich, the leader of the Constitutional Democratic Party (Kadets), asked upon the assembly to devote their first free thoughts and words to "those who sacrificed their own freedom for the liberation of our dear Russia". The hall burst into shouting "Amnesty, Amnesty" towards the ministers attending, and amnesty for the political prisoners, a prerogative exclusively held by the Tsar, were included in an address to the Emperor that also included demands for increased liberties such as universal suffrage, radical land reforms, further executive powers to the Duma, a government responsible to the parliament and the abolition of the reactionary consultative State Council. After two weeks of silence, the government passed its two first bills for the approval of the Duma, one for the construction of a greenhouse at the University of Dorpat and one for the a new laundry. That was in effect a declaration of a "legislative war", as the government would not even recognise the demands of reform from the Duma.

It was clear by then that it was only a matter of time before the Duma became dissolved, and after further radical speeches in the Duma, it was dissolved 72 days after it was convoked, on the 21 July (8 July O.S.) New elections for a second Duma was called for the following February, and Prime Minister Ivan Goremykin was replaced by Stolypin, who was a well-known advocate for the abolition of the communal system and was known for repressive measures to restore order in the provinces. The liberals of the first Duma were subsequently outraged. Prince Georgy Lvov was one of those outraged by the "blatant attack on the parliamentary principle" even though he had opposed the land reform. He became radicalised after he had been a "moderate liberal". The government, on the other hand, deemed the Duma "dysfunctional".

Manifesto

Lvov became one of the Kadets who travelled to Vyborg (Finnish: Viipuri), Finland's second city, to protest the government. There, the Kadet members and liberals signed a manifesto, calling on the Russian people to rebel against the government by refusing to pay taxes or to provide recruits for the army.

According to the historian Orlando Figes, the Vyborg Manifesto was "a typical example of the Kadets' militant posturing" since Duma's opening.