[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# History of the Canadian dollar

ced its first coinage. The 1858 coinage had featured the monarch on the obverse of all coins, with a wreath of maple leaves surmounted by a crown on the reverse. The 1937 re-design continued to feature the monarch on the obverse of all coins, but introduced new patterns for the reverse of each coin:

 One-cent (penny): two maple leaves;
 Five-cent (nickel): a beaver;
 Ten-cent (dime): the schooner Bluenose;
 Twenty-five cent (quarter): a caribou;
 Fifty-cent (half-dollar): Canadian coat of arms.

These designs were all the work of Emanuel Hahn. With the exception of the withdrawal of the penny, these designs continue to be the basic features of Canadian coinage.

This series of coins was augmented in 1987 by the introduction of a new one-dollar coin, featuring a loon on the reverse, designed by Robert-Ralph Carmichael. The coin quickly became known as the "loonie", which in turn has become a nickname for the Canadian dollar generally.

The loonie was followed by the introduction of a two-dollar coin in 1996, designed by Brent Townsend. The two-dollar coin quickly acquired its own nickname, the "toonie".

The effigy of the monarch on the coins was originally based on dies provided by the Royal Mint in London, first for King George VI and then for Queen Elizabeth II. The effigy of George VI was designed by Humphrey Paget. However, given the length of the Queen's reign, four different versions of her effigy have been used, updated with her age: 1953, 1965, 1990 and 2003. The 1953 and 1965 effigies were designed for the Royal Mint, by British artists: Mary Gillick and Arnold Machin. The Canadian coins using these effigies are similar to those used on other Commonwealth coins of those periods. The 1990 and 2003 effigies were designed by Canadian artists: Dora de Pedery-Hunt designed the 1990 effigy, and Susanna Blunt designed the 2003 effigy.

Although these designs are the basic pattern for the coinage, the Mint regularly introduces commemorative coins, either for the entire series of coins, or on individual coins. Those commemorative issues are normally for a limited time period.

 Notes 

The current complete series of notes, known as the Frontier Series, is the seventh series of notes issued by the Bank of Canada. It consists of five notes:

 a five-dollar note, featuring Prime Minister Wilfrid Laurier
 a ten-dollar note, featuring Prime Minister John A. Macdonald
 a twenty-dollar note, featuring Queen Elizabeth II
 a fifty-dollar note, featuring Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King
 a one hundred-dollar note, featuring Prime Minister Robert Borden

The different denominations of the Frontier Series were released individually, starting in 2011. The notes are made of polymer, rather than paper, and contain a number of anti-counterfeiting measures, such as holographic features and transparent sections.

A new eighth series of notes began release in 2018.  only one note in the new series has been released, a ten-dollar note featuring Viola Desmond.

 Withdrawn coins and notes 

All of the previous Dominion notes issued by the Minister of Finance, and notes of all former series issued by the Bank of Canada, are gradually withdrawn from circulation when a new series issues. That process can take some time. For example, the Minister of Finance only issued one series of one-hundred-dollar Dominion notes, in 1871. The last time a $100 Dominion note was turned into the Department of Finance was in 1918.

In addition to that routine withdrawal from circulation, there have been other withdrawals when a coin or note no longer serves a purpose: