[Source: PubMed]

31. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Dec 26;18(1):121. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18010121.

Climate Change, Pesticides and Health: Considering the Risks and Opportunities 
of Adaptation for Zimbabwean Smallholder Cotton Growers.

Zinyemba C(1), Archer E(2), Rother HA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Environmental Health, and Centre for Environmental and 
Occupational Health Research, School of Public Health and Family Medicine, 
University of Cape Town, Observatory, Cape Town 7925, South Africa.
(2)Department of Geography, Geoinformatics and Meteorology, University of 
Pretoria, Private Bag X20, Hatfield 0028, South Africa.

There is potential for increased pesticide-related adverse health outcomes in 
the agricultural sector linked to adaptive increases in pesticide use 
necessitated, in part, by climate change-related increases in pest populations. 
To understand the role of adaptation practices in pesticide use and health 
risks, this study assessed Zimbabwean smallholder cotton farmers' adaptive 
responses linked to their climate change perceptions. In depth interviews were 
conducted with 50 farmers who had been growing cotton for at least 30 years. The 
study identified farmers' adaptation practices that increased their pesticide 
use, as well as those that presented opportunities for reducing pesticide use 
through non-pesticide-dependent adaptation pathways. The findings show that due 
to perceived climate change impacts, such as a shorter growing season, farmers 
were adopting a range of adaptive practices. These included changes in pest 
management practices, such as increasing pesticide spraying frequencies due to 
keeping ratoon crops, which were increasing farmers' overall pesticide use. Such 
incremental adaptive practices are potentially maladaptive, as they may increase 
farmers' pesticide-related health risks. Other practices, however, such as 
reducing cotton acreage and diversifying crops, resulting in transformational 
adaptation, suggest the existence of opportunities for decreasing overall 
pesticide use or totally eliminating pesticides from the farming system.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18010121
PMCID: PMC7794869
PMID: 33375332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.