[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Ameen Rihani

odernity in the works of Rihani where his writings: “prompt a diachronic shift to the early twentieth century, the epoch in which Rihani, who has also been designated a prophet, was composing his first essays on cross-cultural literary and political subjects".

Works

References

Citations

Sources 

 The Ameen Rihani Organization and website.
 Bravo-Villasante, Carmen Ruiz (1993). Un Testigo Árabe Del Siglo XX: Amin Al-Rihani en Marruecos y en España (1939), Madrid: Editorial Cantarabia, Universidad Autónoma De Madrid.
 Dunnavent, Walter Edward, III (1991). Ameen Rihani In America: Transcendentalism in an Arab-American Writer. Indiana: Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University.
 Funk, C. Nathan and Betty J. Sitka, eds. (2004). Ameen Rihani: Bridging East and West – A Pioneering Call for Arab-American Understanding. New York, Toronto, Oxford: University Press of America. .
 Hajjar, Nijmeh (2010). The Politics and Poetics of Ameen Rihani: The Humanist Ideology of an Arab-American Intellectual and Activist. London: Tauris Academic Studies. .
 Hassan, Wail S. (2011) Immigrant Narratives: Orientalism and Cultural Translation in Arab American and Arab British Literature. New York: Oxford University Press.
 Karam Haydar, Savo (2008). Ameen Rihani the Multifold Critic. Beirut: Ph.D. dissertation, The Lebanese University.
 Mhiri, Mootacem Bellah (2005). The Transcultural and Transnational Poetics of Ameen Rihani and Paul Smail. Pennsylvania: Ph.D. dissertation in Comparative Literature, Pennsylvania State University.
 Oueijan, Naji, Assaad Eid, Carol Kfoury, Doumit Salameh (1999).Kahlil Gibran & Ameen Rihani, Prophets of Lebanese-American literature. Beirut: Notre Dame University Press. .
 Oueijan, Naji. (2012). Ameen Rihani's Arab-American Legacy: From Romanticism to Postmodernism. Louaize: Notre Dame University Press..
 Poeti arabi a New York. Il circolo di Gibran, introduzione e traduzione di F. Medici, prefazione di A. Salem, Palomar, Bari 2009. .
 Rihani, Albert (1979). Where to Find Ameen Rihani. Beirut: The Arab Institute for Research and Publications. ASIN: B000Q9MCWE.
 Tkhinvaleli, Maria (1991). Travel in Modern Arabic literature, The Example of Ameen Rihani. Tbilisi: Ph.D. dissertation, Tbilisi University, The Republic of Georgia.
 Zeitouni, Latif (1980). Simiologie du Recit de Voyage: Etude de Qalb Lubnan, Aix-en-Provence: Ph.D. dissertation, Université Aix-en-Provence. Beirut: (1997). The Lebanese University Press.

External links

 
 
 
 

1876 births
1940 deaths
20th-century American male writers
20th-century American novelists
20th-century American poets
American Arabic-language poets
American male novelists
American male poets
American poets
American writers of Lebanese descent
Arabic-language novelists
Eastern Catholic poets
Lebanese Arab nationalists
Lebanese Maronites
Lebanese writers
Mahjar
Arab nationalists
Emigrants from the Ottoman Empire to the United States