[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Deschamps de Boishébert et de Raffetot

urg (1756).

On January 20, 1756, Boishebert sent Francois Boucher de Niverville to Baie Verte to burn a British schooner.  Niverville took the sailors by surprise, killed seven of them, took one prisoner, and burned the ship. At the same time, Boishebert himself led 120 men against Fort Cumberland.

On 12 Oct. 1756 he undertook an expedition against Fort Monckton (formerly Fort Gaspareaux, near Port Elgin, N.B.), but the enemy evacuated the fort and set fire to it before he arrived.

After Louisbourg fell on 26 July 1758, Boishébert withdrew, with the enemy in pursuit. He brought back a large number of Acadians from the region around Port-Toulouse (St. Peter's, Nova Scotia) to the security of his post on the Miramichi.

The Acadian Refugee Camps 

For the Acadians fleeing the deportation, Boishebert created refugee camps at Shediac, Miramichi, and on the Restitgouche River. 
He spent part of the winter of 1755–56 at (Shediac, New Brunswick) with the 600 Acadians stationed there.  The following year, Boishebert left Shediac and went to Miramichi and established Le Camp d'Esperance (Cape Hope) at Beaubears Island. This camp was reported to have between 1000 and 3500 Acadians. By January 1757, the conditions at Campe d'Esperance were horrendous and riots began to break out over provisions. In January 1757 he went to Beaubears Island on the Miramichi River and there set up his headquarters and a refuge for the Acadians. With Father Charles Germain's help he tried to sustain the Acadians' resistance to the British.

He then established a refugee camp on the Restitgouche River at Petit-Rochelle (present-day Pointe-à-la-Croix, Quebec). After Wolfe had left the area, the 1760 Battle of Restigouche led to the capture of several hundred Acadians at Boishébert's refugee camp at Petit-Rochelle.

Boishébert's was constantly vigilant over these settlements. The settlers had already been deported from the region of Beaubassin, despite Boishébert's attempts to evacuate the most destitute families. His efforts were limited by a scarcity of supplies, which coincided from 1756 to 1758 with a period of extreme poverty for most Acadians.

Ile Saint-Jean Campaign 
He also oversaw the exodus of Acadians from present-day Prince Edward Island in the Ile Saint-Jean Campaign.

St. John River Campaign 
He also assisted Acadians in the St. John River Campaign.

Siege of Thomaston, Maine 
During the French and Indian War, on 13 August 1758 French officer Boishebert left Miramichi, New Brunswick with 400 soldiers for Fort St George (Thomaston, Maine). His detachment reached there on 9 September but was caught in an ambush and had to withdraw. This was Boishébert's last Acadian expedition.

They then went on to raid Friendship, Maine, where people were killed and others taken prisoner.

Battle of Quebec 
With a corps of Acadian volunteers Boishébert took part in the defence of Quebec in the summer of 1759, and also in the decisive battle on the Plains of Abraham. In the winter he returned for the last time to Acadia, to gather reinforcements for the defence of Canada and to restore the morale of the discouraged Acadians.

He was defeated by John Byron, who at the time was a Captain in the Royal Navy, in the Battle of the Restigouche, which put a final nail into the coffin of New France. Thereupon, he returned to France, where he was tried and imprisoned for his part in the corrupt dealings of Francois Bigot, the Superintendent of the colony. He was cleared after 15 months in the Bastille.

In 1763 Boishébert was involved in plans for settling Acadians at Cayenne (now French Guiana) and vainly tried to obtain a military appointment there. In 1774 his request for an appointment as inspector of colonial troops was turned down. He sold his Canadian seigneury of La Bouteillerie, also known as Rivière-Ouelle, that year. Until his death, on 9 January 1797, he lived in France at Raffetot, a property he had acquired through his marriage. He was mayor of Raffetot in 1790-1791.

References 
Endnotes

Secondary Sources
 
 
 John Clarence Webster, "Memorial on Behalf of Sieur de Boishebert" (Saint John: Historical Studies No. 4, Publications of the New Brunswick Museum, 1942)
  Mémoire pour le Sieur de Boishebert, capitaine, chevalier de Saint Louis, ci-devant commandant de l'Acadie [microforme] (1763)

External links 
 Boishebert Biography - Blue Pete

1727 births
1797 deaths
Military history of Acadia
Canadian military personnel from Nova Scotia
Military history of New England
Military history of the Thirteen Colonies
Canadian military personnel from New Brunswick
People of Father Le Loutre's War