[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Detroit Autorama

The Detroit Autorama, also known as America's Greatest Hot Rod Show, is a showcase of custom cars and hot rods held each year at Huntington Place in Detroit, Michigan, in either late February or early March.

It is promoted by Championship Auto Shows Incorporated (CASI) and hosted by Michigan Hot Rod Association (MHRA), part of the International Show Car Association (ISCA) schedule for the Summit Racing Equipment Show Car Series, which includes other prestigious show car events such as the Chicago World of Wheels and Houston Autorama.

The Detroit Autorama is best known as home to the Don Ridler Memorial Award, which is presented to the "best in show" at each year's event, and has been won by many well-known car designers and builders, such as Chip Foose, Jerry Pennington, Troy Trepanier, and Bobby Alloway.

History 
The first Detroit Autorama was held at the University of Detroit Memorial Building on January 31 and February 1, 1953. It featured only 40 cars, and was hosted by members of the Michigan Hot Rod Association (MHRA), which was created only a year before to "organize small local clubs into one unified body that could raise the money needed to pull drag racing off the streets and into a safe environment". Eventually, the MHRA grew to also include clubs from the customizing and hot rodding scene, such as the Motor City Modified, Bearing Burners and Spark Plugs, who combined efforts to pull-off the first event, along with other Detroit Car Clubs such as The Road Kings, Shifters, and Milwinders.

For the second show, activities were moved to the Michigan State Fairgrounds Colosseum, where it was held from 1954 to 1960. For the fourth event in 1956, the Michigan Hot Rod Association (MHRA) hired a local band and sporting-event promoter Don Ridler to help the show reach a broader audience. Ridler served as the show's first true promoter until his death in 1963. The following year, the Michigan Hot Rod Association (MHRA) created a "best in show" award for Autorama, named after the man who made the biggest impact in the show's first eleven years, and thus the Ridler Award was born.

The 9th Annual Detroit Autorama was the first to be held at the new Cobo Hall. That year featured a new-record 230 cars competing, and filled all  of Cobo's lower-level basement. The 1961 show's last day also broke the event attendance record by drawing a crowd of approximately 35,000 people. During these early years at Cobo, the event began to attract industry names from outside the Motor City, including George Barris, Darryl Starbird, Carl Casper, and "Big Daddy" Ed Roth. And as part of Ford Motor Company's "Ford Custom Car Caravan", the show also generated attention from other big name customizers, including Bill Cushenbery, Jack Florence, Dean Jeffries, and Gene Winfield.

Though the show was by then in its twelfth year, it was in 1964 the Don Ridler Memorial Award was introduced as the event's top prize. The inaugural Don Ridler Award went to Macomb's Al Bergler, with a Competition slingshot dragster. (Bergler went on to be known in the National Hot Rod Association (NHRA) as a driver of the Motown Shaker Top Fuel Funny Car).

Following Bergler's win in 1964, the next ten years saw both a growth in the number of exhibitors, as well as the number of professional custom car builders competing for the show's new top prize. From 1965 to 1973, all nine Ridler-winning entries were either owned, or built, by Larry and Mike Alexander, Jerry Pennington, or George Busti-all of whom were professional builders.

The 1970s brought on unique cars to wn the Ridler. Jerry Pennington's rear-engine Corvette (Scorpion) and hand-built custom street rod (Devilfish) featured many of the era's trends, including shag carpeting, velvet seating, and sharp edges. 1974's event was a first for Autorama, as Wimauma, Florida's Don Campbell and his '27 Ford became the first out-of-state entry to capture the Ridler Award. The decade was then capped-off with a series of six Ford T-bucket Ridler winners, including three '23s ('76, '78, '79), two '27s ('74 & '75), and one '26 ('77). The Ford roadster trend continued throughout the 1980s as well, with two '34s ('81 & '82), a '28 ('80), a '29 ('83), a '33 ('85) and a '35 ('84). The first non-roadster to win the Ridler since 1973 was Dale Hunt's late-model Pro Stock Pontiac Grand Am at the 34th annual Detroit Autorama in 1986. Hunt's Grand Am remains one of only two Pro Stock cars to have won the Ridler (the other being Bob Rizzoli's '92 Mercedes 560 SEC).