[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Texas in the American Civil War

e was one of Lt. General James Longstreet's most trusted aides. John H. Reagan was an influential member of Jefferson Davis's cabinet. Col. Santos Benavides was a Confederate colonel during the American Civil War. Benavides was the highest-ranking Tejano soldier to serve in the Confederate military.

The office of Governor of Texas was in flux throughout the war, with several men in power at various times. Sam Houston was governor when Texas seceded from the United States, but refused to declare any loyalty to the new Confederacy. He was replaced by Lieutenant Governor Edward Clark. Clark filled the rest of Houston's term in 1861, and narrowly lost re-election by just 124 votes to Francis Lubbock. During his tenure, Lubbock supported Confederate conscription, working to draft all able-bodied men, including resident aliens, into the Confederate army. When Lubbock's term ended in 1863, he joined the military. Ardent secessionist Pendleton Murrah replaced him in office. Even after Robert E. Lee surrendered in 1865, Murrah encouraged Texans to continue the rebellion, and he and several supporters fled to Mexico.

Notable Civil War leaders (Confederacy) from Texas

Notable Civil War leaders (Union) from Texas

Aftermath
Although one of the original members of the Confederate States of America, much of Texas was not settled until after the Civil War. However, Confederate Heroes Day is an official state holiday, and the month of April is recognized by the Texas Senate as Confederate History Month. Although not an official holiday, April 26 is, among Southern historical organizations within the state, often observed as "Confederate Memorial Day." On the south lawn of the state capital in Austin is a Confederate monument, and several other memorials to individual Texas Confederate military units are nearby. In addition, most Texas county courthouse grounds feature a Confederate memorial.
Texas' largest city, Houston, featured a monument to the Confederacy at its oldest city park, Sam Houston Park, titled Spirit of the Confederacy. It was sculpted in bronze by Louis Amateis in 1908. However, Houston mayor Sylvester Turner announced on June 11, 2020, that it will be removed. It was relocated to the Houston Museum of African American Culture on June 17, 2020.

See also 

 Confederate States of Americaanimated map of state secession and Confederacy
 List of Texas Civil War Confederate units
 List of Texas Civil War Union units
 History of slavery in Texas

References

Further reading

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Grear, Charles. Why Texans Fought in the Civil War (2010) excerpt and text search
 Hale, Douglas. The Third Texas Cavalry in the Civil War (University of Oklahoma Press, 2000)
 
 
 
 
 Lang, Andrew F.  "Memory, the Texas Revolution, and Secession: The Birth of Confederate Nationalism in the Lone Star State." Southwestern Historical Quarterly 114.1 (2010): 21-36 online
 Lang, Andrew F. "'Victory is Our Only Road to Peace': Texas, Wartime Morale, and Confederate Nationalism, 1860–1865" (MA thesis, U of North Texas, 2008) online; bibliography pp 143-148.
 Liles, Deborah M. and Angela Boswell, eds. Women in Civil War Texas: Diversity and Dissidence in the Trans-Mississippi (University of North Texas Press, 2016). xiv, 297pp   online review
 
 
 
 
 Teja, Jesús F. de la. Lone Star Unionism, Dissent, and Resistance: Other Sides of Civil War Texas (2016). 
 Timmons, Joe T. "The Referendum in Texas on the Ordinance of Secession, February 23, 1861: The Vote." East Texas Historical Journal 11.2 (1973)  online.

External links

 Handbook of Texas Online
 National Park Service map of Civil War sites in Texas
 Richardson's New Map Of The State Of Texas,1861
 Texas Civil War Museum
 Texas Military Units in the Civil War

 
.American Civil War
American Civil War by state
American Civil War
 
Trans-Mississippi Theater of the American Civil War
American Civil War
Texas secession movements