[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bob Unglaub

at second and third base but still found himself in the lineup every day. He had batted .263 in 72 games with Boston, but Unglaub upped his average to .308 with the Senators. In 144 games (his career high) between the two clubs, he batted .286 with 46 runs scored, 155 hits, one home run, and 54 RBI.

Before the 1909 season, Unglaub expressed satisfaction with his situation in Washington. "It’s whatever Joe says,” he told reporters. “If the team needs me anywhere at all, it is satisfactory to me, for I shall try and deliver the goods. I would, of course, prefer the infield, but if there is not room there, it is all the same to me." Though not the best at fielding, he could (and did) play a variety of positions, covering at third and first while Bill Shipke and Jerry Freeman were struggling and filling in for an injured Jim Delahanty at second base and a hurt Clyde Milan in the outfield. The Washington Post praised his hitting in April: "Unglaub is a batter whom any pitcher must fear, for when he hits the ball it usually goes on a long journey." Russo, however, said "he was never a great hitter." In May, Unglaub missed some time with broken ribs, reportedly caused when Bob Ganley hit him with a baseball bat in a brawl. The Senators denied this, but Ganley was released shortly thereafter. Playing 130 games in his first season with the Senators, Unglaub batted .265 with 43 runs scored, 127 hits, three home runs, and 41 RBI.

In 1910, Unglaub went back to playing first base full time. He appeared in 124 games, accumulating 29 runs scored, 101 hits, and 44 RBI. His batting average dropped to .234, and he hit zero home runs in what would be his last major league season.

Unglaub batted and threw right-handed. He stood  and weighed . In a 595-game major-league career, he batted .258 with 188 runs scored, 554 hits, five home runs, and 216 RBI.

Later career (1911–16)
Before the 1911 season, the Senators sold Unglaub's contract to the Lincoln Railsplitters of the Western League, where he played and managed. After a season with them, he split 1912 between the Baltimore Orioles (now an International League team) and the Minneapolis Millers of the American Association. He spent 1913 with Minneapolis, then finished out his career with the Fargo-Moorhead Graingrowers, whom he played for and managed for from 1914-16.

Death
During baseball offseasons, Unglaub worked as an engineer at the Pennsylvania Railroad shops in Baltimore. On November 29, 1916, he was supervising repair work on a locomotive when an accident occurred that crushed and mangled his body, killing him. He was 36.  Unglaub was laid to rest at Sunny Ridge Memorial Park in Crisfield, Maryland.

Managerial record

* As a player-manager, Unglaub returned to being a player only.

See also
List of Major League Baseball player–managers

Notes

References

External links

 Baseball-Reference.com – managerial statistics and analysis
 TheDeadBallEra.com – Unglaub's grave marker
 Baseball-Almanac.com

1880s births
1916 deaths
Major League Baseball first basemen
New York Highlanders players
Boston Americans players
Boston Red Sox players
Boston Red Sox managers
Washington Senators (1901–1960) players
Major League Baseball player-managers
Baseball players from Baltimore
Maryland Terrapins baseball players
Railway accident deaths in the United States
Accidental deaths in Maryland
Minor league baseball managers
Worcester Farmers players
Petersburg Farmers players
Meriden Silverites players
Worcester Quakers players
Sacramento Gilt Edges players
Milwaukee Brewers (minor league) players
Williamsport Millionaires players
Lincoln Railsplitters players
Baltimore Orioles (International League) players
Minneapolis Millers (baseball) players
Fargo-Moorhead Graingrowers players