[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# German occupation of Estonia during World War II

n crimes against humanity.

The conclusions of the Estonian International Commission for the Investigation of Crimes Against Humanity are available online. It says that there is an evidence of Estonian units' involvement in crimes against humanity, and acts of genocide; however, the commission noted

Controversies 
Views diverge on history of Estonia during World War II and following the occupation by Nazi Germany.

According to the Estonian point of view, the occupation of Estonia by Soviet Union lasted five decades, only interrupted by the Nazi invasion of 1941–1944. Estonian representatives at the European Parliament even made a motion for a resolution acknowledging the 48 years of occupation as a fact. The final version of the resolution of European parliament, however, only acknowledged Estonia's loss of independence lasting from 1940 to 1991 and that annexation of Estonia by Soviet Union was considered illegal by Western democracies.
The position of the Russian Government: Russia has denied that Soviet Union illegally annexed the Baltic republics of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia in 1940.  The Kremlin's European affairs chief Sergei Yastrzhembsky: "There was no occupation."  Russian State officials look at the events in Estonia in the end of World War II as the liberation from fascism by the Soviet Union.
Views of World War II veteran, an Estonian Ilmar Haaviste fought on the German side: "Both regimes were equally evil — there was no difference between the two except that Stalin was more cunning".
Views of World War II veteran, an Estonian Arnold Meri fought on the Soviet side: "Estonia's participation in World War II was inevitable. Every Estonian had only one decision to make: whose side to take in that bloody fight — the Nazis' or the anti-Hitler coalition's."
Views of World War II veteran, a Russian fought on the Soviet side in Estonia answering a question: How do you feel being called an "occupier"? " Viktor Andreyev: "Half believe one thing  half believe another. That's in the run of things."

In 2004 controversy regarding the events of World War II in Estonia surrounded the Monument of Lihula.

In April 2007 the divergent views on history of World War II in Estonia centered around the Bronze Soldier of Tallinn.

See also 
20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Estonian)
Estonian resistance movement
Judenfrei
Klooga concentration camp
Reichskommissariat Ostland

References

External links 
Birn, Ruth Bettina (2001), Collaboration with Nazi Germany in Eastern Europe: the Case of the Estonian Security Police. Contemporary European History 10.2, 181–98.
Estonian SS-Legion (photographs)
Estonian SS-Legion (photographs)
Hjalmar Mäe
Hjalmar Mäe (photograph)
Saksa okupatsioon Eestis
Weiss-Wendt, Anton (2003). Extermination of the Gypsies in Estonia during World War II: Popular Images and Official Policies. Holocaust and Genocide Studies 17.1, 31–61.

Occupation of the Baltic states
1941 in Estonia
Jewish Estonian history
Military history of Estonia during World War II
Estonia
Generalbezirk Estland
Politics of World War II
Estonia in World War II
German military occupations
The Holocaust in Estonia
Estonia–Germany military relations