[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# American English

ensive than in most of England. In most North American accents,  is "dropped" or "deleted" after all alveolar and interdental consonants (that is: everywhere except after /p/, /b/, /f/, /h/, /k/, and /m/) and so new, duke, Tuesday, assume are pronounced , , ,  (compare with Standard British , , , ).

 T-glottalization:  is normally pronounced as a glottal stop  when both after a vowel or a liquid and before a syllabic  or any non-syllabic consonant, as in button  or fruitcake . In  absolute final position after a vowel or liquid,  is also replaced by, or simultaneously articulated with, glottal constriction: thus, what  or fruit . (This innovation of /t/ glottal stopping may occur in British English as well.)
 Flapping:  or  becomes a flap  both after a vowel or  and before an unstressed vowel or a syllabic consonant other than , including water , party  and model . This results in pairs such as ladder/latter, metal/medal, and coating/coding being pronounced the same. Flapping of  or  before a full stressed vowel is also possible but only if that vowel begins a new word or morpheme, as in what is it?  and twice in not at all . Other rules apply to flapping to such a complex degree in fact that flapping has been analyzed as being required in certain contexts, prohibited in others, and optional in still others. For instance, flapping is prohibited in words like seduce , retail , and monotone , yet optional in impotence .
Both intervocalic  and  may commonly be realized as  (a nasalized alveolar flap) (flapping) or simply , making winter and winner homophones in fast or informal speech.
 L-velarization: England's typical distinction between a "clear L" (i.e. ) and a "dark L" (i.e. ) is much less noticeable in nearly all dialects of American English; it is often altogether absent, with all "L" sounds tending to be "dark", meaning having some degree of velarization, perhaps even as dark as  (though in the initial position, perhaps less dark than elsewhere among some speakers). The only notable exceptions to this velarization are in some Spanish-influenced American English varieties (such as East Coast Latino English, which typically shows a clear "L" in syllable onsets) and in older, moribund Southern speech, where "L" is clear in an intervocalic environment between front vowels.
 Weak vowel merger: The vowel  in unstressed syllables generally merges with  and so effect is pronounced like affect, and abbot and rabbit rhyme. The quality of the merged vowel varies considerably based on the environment but is typically more open, like [ə], in word-initial or word-final position, but more close, like [ɪ~ɨ], elsewhere.
 Raising of pre-voiceless : Many speakers split the sound  based on whether it occurs before a voiceless consonant and so in rider, it is pronounced , but in writer, it is raised to  (because  is a voiceless consonant while  is not). Thus, words like bright, hike, price, wipe, etc. with a following voiceless consonant (such as ) use a more raised vowel sound compared to bride, high, prize, wide, etc. Because of this sound change, the words rider and writer , for instance, remain distinct from one another by virtue of their difference in height (and length) of the diphthong's starting point (unrelated to both the letters d and t being pronounced in these words as alveolar flaps ). The sound change also applies across word boundaries, though the position of a word or phrase's stress may prevent the raising from taking place. For instance, a high school in the sense of "secondary school" is generally pronounced ; however, a high school in the literal sense of "a tall school" would be pronounced . The sound change began in the Northern, New England, and Mid-Atlantic regions of the country, and is becoming more common across the nation.
 Many speakers in the Inland North, Upper Midwestern, and Philadelphia dialect areas raise  before voiced consonants in certain words as well, particularly ,  and . Hence, words like tiny, spider, cider, tiger, dinosaur, beside, idle (but sometimes not idol), and fire may contain a raised nucleus. The use of , rather than , in such words is unpredictable from the phonetic environment alone, but it may have to do with their acoustic similarity to other words that with  before a voiceless consonant, per the traditional Canadian-raising system. Some researchers have argued that there has been a phonemic split in those dialects, and the distribution of the two sounds is becoming more unpredictable among younger speakers.
 Many speakers from California, other Western states including those in the Pacific Northwest, and the Upper Midwest realize final  as  when  ("short i") is raised to become  ("long ee") before the underlying  is converted to , so that coding, for example, is pronounced , homophonous with codeine.
 Conditioned /æ/ raising (especially before  and ): The raising of the  or  vowel occurs in specific environments that vary widely from region to region but most commo