[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Project HOPE

ral and Eastern Europe
 Kosovo
 North Macedonia
 Moldova 
 Poland
 Romania
 Ukraine

Middle East
 Egypt
 Yemen

Navy Missions 2009
 Antigua
 Colombia
 Dominican Republic
 El Salvador
 Ghana
 Haiti
 Kiribati
 Liberia
 Marshall Islands
 Nicaragua
 Panama
 Solomon Islands
 Tonga
 Vietnam
 Western Samoa

Recent events 
2005 — When Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast, HOPE sent volunteer medical response teams to the area, where they provided nursing care to people in need.
2006 — HOPE continues to provide aid to the people on the Gulf Coast who were hit by Hurricane Katrina. In the spring of 2006, they helped staff the U.S. Navy hospital ship, known as the Mercy, with volunteer physicians and nurses to South Asia.
2008 — Project HOPE's Chief Operations Officer, C. William Fox Jr., BG, USA (Ret.), was injured by an IED in Basra where the organization was assisting in building a new Children's Hospital.
2010 — In response to the January earthquake in Haiti, Project HOPE helped to coordinate volunteer medical staffers to fill out the complement of the USNS Comfort.
2020 — In response to the Beirut explosion, Project HOPE deployed an emergency response team to deliver necessary medical supplies and other needed support and aid.
2020 — In response to COVID-19, Project HOPE and the Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies at the Watson Institute of Brown University developed and released a self-paced eLearning for health care professionals, as well as a “Training-of-Trainers” model to provide the critical skills and knowledge necessary for health workers to respond rapidly and efficiently to COVID-19 in their workplaces and communities, while protecting their own health.
2022 — In response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Project HOPE sent medical supplies to help Ukrainian refugees. 
2022 -- In response to COVID-19, Project HOPE improved access to COVID-19 vaccines through free and charitable clinics in the U.S. through a new program funded by the Health Resources and Services Administration, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services.

Notable Support 
In July 2022, the American musician Post Malone hosted an Apex Legends charity stream called "Gaming for Love" that raised over $58,000 for Project HOPE. In October 2021, former Bachelorette contestant Ben Higgins joined Project HOPE's Board of Directors.

Collectible card
In October 2020, the digital collectible cards company Phil Ropy created a card with American photographer Elliott Erwitt to raise awareness for Project HOPE’s COVID-19 response. The picture on the card shows a pair of medical rubber gloves as a reminder of how exposed health care workers are and as an allusion to Project HOPE's logo. The proceeds from the sales of the card are redistributed to the organization.

See also
Mercy Ships

References

External links 
Project HOPE web page
Project HOPE: Forty Years of American Medicine Abroad
Parade Magazine article
Charity Navigator Profile of Project HOPE

Health charities in the United States
Organizations established in 1958
International charities
1958 establishments in the United States
Hospital ships
Global health
Non-governmental organizations
Humanitarian aid organizations