[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# March 1973

of declining ratings, aired on NBC.
Ben Villaflor of the Philippines, the World Boxing Association (WBA) super-featherweight champion, lost to Japanese challenger Kuniaki Shibata in 15 rounds in a bout in Honolulu, Hawaii. In a rematch on October 17, he would win back his title by defeating Shibata.

March 13, 1973 (Tuesday)
Voting began for the new President of Turkey, to be chosen by the electors of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. No candidate received the required 2/3rds majority on the first ballot, and more voting took place until a winner could be found. President Cevdet Sunay's term expired on March 28 with no successor being receiving the necessary majority, and a winner was not selected until the 15th ballot on April 6, 1973. 
Syria adopted a new constitution.
The first wreck of Amtrak's new "Auto Train" happened near Hortense, Georgia when a log-carrying truck crashed into the side of the train and derailed 21 of its cars. The truck driver was killed, and 19 of the train passengers injured, overturning most of the vehicles that were being transported as part of the Auto Train service.
Born: 
Edgar Davids, Surinam-born Dutch footballer and manager; in Paramaribo
Eloy de Jong, Dutch pop music singer; in The Hague
David Draiman, American singer and musician; in Brooklyn, New York
Died: Melville Cooper, 76, English-born American character actor on film

March 14, 1973 (Wednesday)
Liam Cosgrave was sworn in to office as the new Taoiseach (Prime Minister) of the Republic of Ireland two weeks after his Fine Gael and the Labour Party defeated Jack Lynch's Fianna Fail party in the February 28 parliamentary elections.
The National University of Costa Rica began classes as the fifth public university in the Central American nation.
North Vietnam released 108 additional American prisoners of war, including future U.S. Senator and presidential candidate John McCain, a U.S. Navy lieutenant commander at the time of his capture on October 26, 1967.
The British television comedy Are You Being Served? made its debut on BBC-1 after its pilot had been shown on the anthology Comedy Playhouse on September 8, 1972, during the suspension of coverage of the Summer Olympics. 
The third mass release of U.S. prisoners of war from the Vietnam War took place as 108 military and one civilian were turned over to U.S. authorities at Hanoi, including (and future U.S. Senator and presidential candidate) U.S. Navy Lieutenant Commander John S. McCain III.
Died: 
Howard H. Aiken, 73, American physicist who, in 1937, launched the project of designing the first IBM computer, the Harvard Mark I and its successors
Murat "Chic" Young, 72, American cartoonist who had created the popular comic strip Blondie in 1930 and continued to draw it at the time of his death.
Ruth Allison Lilly, 81, American philanthropist
Rafael Godoy, 65, Colombian-born Venezuelan songwriter