[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Mayday Trippe

Mayday "Dean" Trippe is a United States-based comic book artist and illustrator. Trippe graduated from the Savannah College of Art and Design with a B.F.A. in Sequential Art in 2003.

Work
Along with Jamie Dee Galey, Trippe was also one of the instigators of the 2005 Batgirl Livejournal Meme, which grew into a phenomenon of over 1000 artists contributing their own unique renditions of DC Comics' Batgirl.

With writer Chris Arrant, they co-founded Project: Rooftop, a website devoted to original redesigns of classic American comic book characters.

Trippe started a Kickstarter campaign in 2014 to publish Something Terrible, an autobiographical comic about child abuse and sexual violence. The work was distributed by Iron Circus Comics.

In September 2015, Trippe illustrated the cover of the scientific journal Nature, in which they designed a team of superheroes representing areas of knowledge (economics, psychology, astronomy, quantum mechanics, medicine, computer science, and Evolutionary biology) that also is used in an editorial and a special issue. Trippe also illustrated a variant for another article within the issue.

Private life
Trippe came out as non-binary in 2021.

They are a member of the Democratic Socialists of America.

Bibliography
 Something Terrible Comic autobiography of Dean Trippe and their struggles. Self-published.
 Power Lunch Book 1: First Course (with writer J. Torres, Oni Press, 2011, )
 Knock Knock Joke of the book with Paul and Jack short story in Yo Gabba Gabba: Comic Book Time! (Oni Press, 2011)
 Butterfly, a superhero parody webcomic
 Merman Short Story in Comic Book Tattoo (with Jason Horn, Image Comics, 2008, )
 Wake, a serialized webcomic for Act-i-vate
 Butterfly Origin in Superior Showcase #1 (AdHouse Books, 2006)
 Untitled short story in You Ain't No Dancer, Vol. 1 (New Reliable Press, 2005, )
 Untitled short story in 2005 FLUKE Anthology

References

External links
 

Living people
American comics artists
American comics writers
American webcomic creators
LGBT comics creators
Members of the Democratic Socialists of America
American non-binary artists
Year of birth missing (living people)
21st-century American artists
21st-century American writers
21st-century American LGBT people
Savannah College of Art and Design alumni