[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# International Criminal Court investigations

had applied a too stringent standard of proof. Subsequently, the First Pre-Trial Chamber issued a second warrant of arrest against al-Bashir on 12 July 2010 in which he was charged with genocide against three ethnic groups in Darfur.

Omar Al Bashir is still at large, and is not within ICC custody.

Bahr Idriss Abu Garda
On 17 May 2009, it was the first time that a suspect appeared voluntarily before the Court. Bahr Idriss Abu Garda, commander of the United Resistance Front, a Darfuri rebel group, was accused of responsibility for the attack on the African Union's peace mission in Haskanita (North-Darfur) on 29 September 2007. In the attack, 12 soldiers were allegedly killed and eight injured. Abu Garda denies the charge but reported voluntarily by stating that "every leader should co-operate with justice and observe the law". A summons was issued against Abu Garda, but no warrant of arrest. He was allowed to await the further proceedings while in liberty.

On 8 February 2010, Pre-Trial Chamber I of the Court ruled that there was insufficient evidence to proceed to trial on charges against Abu Garda. On 23 April 2010, the Chamber also declined the Prosecutor's application to appeal the decision. Under the Rome Statute, such a move to the Appeals Chamber can only be made once leave of the Pre-Trial Chamber has been granted. Both decisions do not preclude the prosecution from subsequently requesting the confirmation of the charges against Abu Garda if such a request is supported by additional evidence.

Abdallah Banda and Saleh Jerbo
On 16 June 2010, two other rebel leaders came voluntarily to the Court. Abdallah Banda Abakaer Nourain (Banda) and Saleh Mohammed Jerbo Jamus (Jerbo), leaders of small Darfuri rebel groups, are also charged with war crimes for their alleged roles in the attack in Haskanita described above.

Prosecutor Moreno Ocampo stated that their voluntary appearance was the culmination of months of efforts to secure their co-operation. On 17 June 2010, they faced Pre-Trial Chamber I, which ruled that there are reasonable grounds for their prosecution. Just as in the case against Abu Garda, the Prosecutor has not made a request for warrants of arrest against them.

Abdallah Banda Abakaer Nourain and Saleh Mohammed Jerbo Jamus appeared voluntarily before the court on 17 June 2010. On 7 March 2011, Pre-Trial Chamber I confirmed the charges against the two and committed them to trial.

The proceedings against Saleh Mohammed Jerbo Jamus terminated on 4 October 2013 due to his passing.

On 11 September 2014, the Trial Chamber judges issued an arrest warrant to ensure Banda's presence at trial. Banda is still at large, and trial will commence pending his arrest or voluntary appearance.

Kenya

On 31 March 2010, a Pre-Trial Chamber of the International Criminal Court authorized the Prosecutor to investigate the 2007–2008 Kenyan crisis. It was the first time the Prosecutor had requested such an authorization; all other investigations have been triggered by either the corresponding government or the United Nations Security Council.

On 15 December 2010, the Prosecutor applied for summonses to appear for six alleged perpetrators: In the first case, William Ruto, Henry Kiprono Kosgey and Joshua Arap Sang are to stand trial for crimes against PNU supporters whereas, in the second case, Francis Muthaura, Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta and Mohamed Hussein Ali are to stand trial for crimes against ODM supporters. On 8 March 2011, the Pre-Trial Chamber issued summonses for all six alleged perpetrators to appear before the Court on 7 and 8 April 2011 respectively.

Libya 
As a consequence of the 2011 Libyan civil war and its brutal suppression, the UN Security Council voted unanimously, on 26 February 2011 in Resolution 1970, to refer the situation in Libya to the ICC. Other than the referral of the situation in Darfur, Sudan, to the ICC in March 2005, it was only the second time that the Security Council has referred a situation to the ICC and the first time that it has done so unanimously. China and the United States had abstained in 2005, but this time, they voted in favor of referral to the ICC.

On 3 March 2011, just five days after the referral of the situation, the Prosecutor opened an investigation. On 16 May 2011, the Prosecutor requested a Pre-Trial Chamber of the Court to issue warrants of arrest against Muammar Gaddafi; his son, Saif al-Islam; and the head of Libya's intelligence, Abdullah Senussi, for allegedly committed crimes against humanity. The request was granted on 27 June 2011, resulting in the second ICC warrant of arrest against an incumbent head of state, the other being Sudan's Omar al-Bashir.