[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band Reunion Tour

h a fiery guitar solo from Nils Lofgren; a loud, three-guitars-distorting "Murder Inc."; the reliably crowd-rousing anthem "Badlands"; a lengthy take on "Out in the Street" with plenty of Bruce stage antics; and a very elongated "Tenth Avenue Freeze-Out", which served as this tour's band intro song.

It was in "Tenth Avenue Freeze-Out" that the show's theme began to emerge. Springsteen used it to deliver one of his tall tales about the formation of the E Street Band, adopting a preacher persona to first sing sections of the Impressions' "It's All Right" and/or Al Green's "Take Me to the River", all the while describing a quasi-spiritual quest in the guise of band introductions: a journey to "the river of resurrection, where everyone can find salvation. But you can’t get there by yourself."  The band were the people needed: Max Weinberg was introduced as star of Late Night with Conan O'Brien; Garry Tallent got to play the bass riff from "Fire"; Steven Van Zandt was introduced as star of The Sopranos tel-eee-vision show (to which Van Zandt responded with a bit of the theme from The Godfather on his guitar); Patti Scialfa got a build-up as "the first lady of love", after which she would play and sing a verse of her album's title song "Rumble Doll"; and Clarence Clemons would get the biggest build-up of all, leading to the part of "Tenth Avenue Freeze-Out" in which "the Big Man joins the band."

From there the show would drop back into a serious mode, usually featuring a soft band rendition of the gloomy "The Ghost of Tom Joad" followed by a 1970s epic of loss rotated amongst "Backstreets", "Jungleland", and "Racing in the Street".

But then the second piece of the theme came, with the set closer "Light of Day".  Now Springsteen was the backwoods preacher again, stretching out the song and in the middle giving a long sermon on what kind of salvation he was offering.  First would be some local-site-specific glorifying or taunting, and then he would intone in time to band beats:

I'm here tonight – I'm here tonight –

To re-educate ya
To re-suscitate ya
To re-generate ya
To re-confiscate ya
To re-combabulate ya
To re-indoctrinate ya
To re-sex-u-late ya
To re-dedicate ya
To re-liberate ya
With the power, and the gloryWith the power, and the gloryWith the promiseWith the majesty!
With the mystery!!
WITH THE MINISTRY! OF ROCK AND ROLL!!!

Now unlike my competitors,
I cannot ... I shall not ... I will not
Promise you life everlasting.
But I can promise you –
LIFE, RIGHT NOW!This "Ministry of Rock and Roll" litany became the (long) catchphrase of the tour, and t-shirts were printed up with these words on the back.

Encores began with fan favorites such as "Born to Run" and "Thunder Road"; Springsteen would make increased use of turning the house lights on during some such songs, to increase the communal feeling of the concert. 

Lights went back down, as the next-to-last song of the show typically began the third part of the concert's theme.  This was a rendering of "If I Should Fall Behind", originally recorded during the E Street Band's dissolved period, but now cast as a slowly played vow of togetherness:  Springsteen, Van Zandt, Lofgren, Scialfa, and Clemons would each take turns singing a verse, promising to wait for each other.  Last came "Land of Hope and Dreams", the one newly written song to be featured on most of the tour.  Musically based in part around the Impressions' "People Get Ready" but set to a loud guitar churn with a sometimes-heard mandolin riff from Van Zandt, 'Lohad' (as it soon became known to fans) was lyrically a deliberate inversion of Woody Guthrie's "This Train Is Bound For Glory".  In Preacher Bruce's take, all are welcome on the train – "saints and sinners", "losers and winners", "whores and gamblers" – you just get on board.  Stretched to eight or more minutes, with several false endings, 'Lohad' represented the culmination of the show's message of rock and roll revival.

Springsteen celebrated his 50th birthday with a sold-out show on September 24, 1999, at Philadelphia's Wachovia Spectrum, opening the show with praise for his strong Philadelphia fan base, then playing a voicemail recording that a friend of his mother left on her answering machine, singing to him "The Big 50". Springsteen then quoted W. C. Fields, saying that "All things being equal, I'd rather be in Philadelphia", and broke into his early favorite "Growin' Up".

During the tour's third leg in 2000, Springsteen began performing some additional newly written songs, including a couple co-written by Joe Grushecky of Iron City Houserockers fame.  But the new song that gained by far the most attention was "American Skin (41 Shots)".