[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moses in rabbinic literature

daughter, took up the child to nurse him; but he refused the breast. Then she gave him to other Egyptian women to nurse, but he refused to take nourishment from any of them. The mouth which was destined to speak with God might not take unclean milk. Bithiah therefore gave him to his mother to nurse.

Another legend says that he did not take any milk from the breast. Bithiah then adopted him as her son. Aside from the name "Moses" which Bithiah gave to him, he had seven names, or according to other stories ten, other names given to him by his mother, his father, his brother Aaron, his sister Miriam, his nurse, his grandfather Kehat, and Israel. These names were: Jared, Abi Gedor, Ḥeber, Abi Soko, Jekuthiel, Abi Zanoah, and Shemaiah ("Shama 'Yah" meaning "God has heard"), the last one being given to him by Israel. He was also called "Heman".

Moses was a very large child at the age of three. At this age, sitting at the king's table in the presence of several princes and counselors, he took the crown from Pharaoh's head and placed it on his own. The princes were horrified at the boy's act; and the soothsayer said that this was the same boy who, in accordance with their former predictions, would destroy the kingdom of Pharaoh and liberate Israel. Balaam and Jethro were at that time also among the king's counselors. Balaam advised the king to kill the boy at once; but Jethro (other sources say it was Gabriel in the guise of one of the king's counselors) said that the boy should first be examined, to see whether he had sense enough to have done such an act intentionally. All agreed with this advice. A shining piece of gold, or a precious stone, together with a live coal, was placed on a plate before the boy, to see which of the two he would choose. The angel Gabriel then guided his hand to the coal, which he took up and put into his mouth. This burned his tongue, causing him difficulty in speaking; but it saved his life.

Moses remained in Pharaoh's house fifteen years longer. According to the Book of Jubilees, he learned the Ashuri script from his father, Amram. During his sojourn in the king's palace he often went to his brethren, the slaves of Pharaoh, sharing their sad lot. He helped anyone who bore too heavy a burden or was too weak for his work. He reminded Pharaoh that a slave was entitled to some rest, and begged him to grant the Israelites one free day in the week. Pharaoh acceded to this request, and Moses accordingly instituted Shabbat as a day of rest for the Israelites.

Flight from Egypt

Moses' killing of the Egyptian was not considered murder, for the Egyptian merited death because he had forced an Israelite woman to commit adultery with him. Moses was at that time eighteen years of age. According to another version, Moses was then twenty, or possibly forty, years of age. These divergent opinions regarding his age at the time when he killed the Egyptian are based upon different estimates of the length of his stay in the royal palace, both of them assuming that he fled from Egypt immediately after the slaying.

Dathan and Abiram were bitter enemies of Moses, insulting him and saying he should not act as if he were a member of the royal house, since he was the son not of Bithia, but of Jochebed. Previous to this they had slandered him before Pharaoh. Pharaoh had forgiven Moses everything else, but would not forgive him for killing the Egyptian. He delivered him to the executioner, who chose a very sharp sword with which to kill Moses; but the latter's neck became like a marble pillar, dulling the edge of the sword. Meanwhile, the angel Michael descended from heaven, and took the form of the executioner, giving the latter the shape of Moses and so killing him. He then took up Moses and carried him beyond the frontier of Egypt for a distance of three, or, according to another account, of forty, days. According to another legend, the angel took the shape of Moses, and allowed himself to be caught, thus giving the real Moses an opportunity to escape.

King in Ethiopia

The fugitive Moses went to the camp of King Nikanos, or Kikanos, of Ethiopia, who was at that time besieging his own capital, which had been traitorously seized by Balaam and his sons and made impregnable by them through magic. Moses joined the army of Nikanos, and the king and all his generals took a fancy to him, because he was courageous as a lion and his face gleamed like the sun.