[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Non-citizen suffrage

be extended to all EU migrants.

Israel
In 1960, non-citizen voting rights in local elections were granted for holders of a permanent resident card ("blue card"). Most permanent residents, a status created by the 1952 Entry into Israel Law, are migrants, but other groups fall into the same category.

Following the 1967 annexation of East Jerusalem, Israel conducted a census on June 26, 1967 in the annexed territory and granted permanent Israeli residency to those present at the time of the census (those not present lost the right to reside in Jerusalem). They can still vote in municipal elections and play a role in the administration of the city. At the end of 2005, 93% of the Arab population of East Jerusalem had permanent residency and 5% had Israeli citizenship. In February 2019, the government took steps to facilitate the process for Arab permanent residents of Jerusalem to become citizens of Israel.

In the annexed Golan Heights, out of nearly 27,000 Golan Druzes, 17,000 can vote but only about 5,000 are Israeli citizens, the remainder hold Syrian citizenship and have the status of permanent residents which allows them to vote for municipal elections, but until 2018 there were only appointed representatives to local councils in the Golan's four Druze villages. When the first municipal elections held there took place on 30 October 2018, they were the target of a boycott campaign supported e.g. by the local Druze High Religious Council.

Italy
(EU member) EU residents have voting and eligibility rights for municipal (and inframunicipal) and European elections.

The debate about the extension of local voting rights to non-EU residents (extracomunitari) resurfaces from time to time. A proposition included in the programme of the Prodi I Cabinet in 1997 had to be withdrawn because of the opposition from the Commission for Constitutional Affairs. Although the parties that support the Berlusconi governments oppose this extension, Gianfranco Fini, leader of the post-fascist National Alliance, supported it e.g. in 2004 and 2008, when he was president of the Chamber of Deputies.

There are some elective local consultative council for foreigners, notably in Rome, and since 2005 several municipal councils voted motions asking for the extension of voting rights to non-EU residents.

Jamaica
(CN member) Commonwealth citizens may vote and are eligible for parliamentary elections, with a condition of residency in the country during 12 months prior to the compilation of the register of electors (only for British Commonwealth citizens), but "allegiance to a foreign State" is a criterion for ineligibility.

Japan
Currently the Constitution of Japan defines voting rights as only for citizens. In 1990, some permanent residents from Korea (see "Koreans in Japan") petitioned the Supreme Court to gain voting rights. The Supreme Court declined in 1995, but it also declared that it is not prohibited to do so. In addition, one of justices expressed the opinion that the foreigners should be guaranteed the voting right at local elections.

During the 2009 Japanese general election, it appeared that the New Komeito Party, the Japanese Communist Party and the Social Democratic Party were clearly in favor of extending local voting rights to foreign residents, while the Liberal Democratic Party was totally opposed to it and the Democratic Party of Japan was divided on this matter, but rather in favor of the extension of voting rights, so gaining the support of the Korean Residents Union in Japan (Mindan) for many of its candidates. 

Following the victory of the Democratic Party in the 2009 Japanese general election, the topic of giving the nearly one million permanent residents of Japan the right to vote in local elections was pushed by some party members.

In 2022, a city assembly in Musashino, Tokyo voted against a proposal to extended local voting rights to permanent residents.

Jersey
The right to vote in Jersey is determined by residency, not citizenship, citizens of any state may vote in Jersey elections provided they fulfill the other requirements for electoral registration. A person is entitled to have his or her name included on the electoral register for an electoral district if the person 1) has been ordinarily resident in Jersey for a period of at least 2 years, 2) or ordinarily resident in Jersey for a period of at least 6 months, as well as having been ordinarily resident in Jersey at any time for an additional period of, or for additional periods that total, at least 5 years.

Lithuania
(EU member) In 2002, non-national permanent residents were granted local voting rights. In order to achieve this, an amendment to the constitution was adopted in June 2002 and an amendment of the Law on elections to municipal councils was adopted in September 2002. A Law on elections to the European Parliament was adopted by the parliament in November 2003. Other permanent residents of the respective administrative units can vote.