[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arkansas National Guard

nor of Louisiana.  EMAC provides mutual aid across state lines, provides assets for states' personnel and equipment shortfalls, places responding assets under operational control of requesting governor and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) recognizes cross-state support as reimbursable.

The Arkansas National Guard provided the first guard units from outside Louisiana to respond to the Louisiana Governor's request for support when the 77th Theater Aviation Brigade deployed assets to New Orleans. A total of 3000 Arkansas National Guard Soldiers and Airmen were mobilized, with 1500 deployed to Louisiana at the peak of operations.  The Arkansas National Guard assisted with processing over 10,000 evacuees through the Chaffee Maneuver Training Center (Fort Chaffee) at Fort Smith Arkansas. Arkansas National Guard units were among the last to leave Louisiana, finally handing off its missions to the Louisiana National Guard in February 2006.

Operation Jump Start
When President Bush ordered National Guard Troops to help secure the border with Mexico, the Arkansas National Guard responded with a Joint Task Force of Soldiers and Airmen, operating in Texas, New Mexico and Arizona.  At its peak, Arkansas had over 230 Arkansas troops and airmen on orders including:
Arizona – 23 Airmen from the 188th Fighter Wing and 189th Air Lift Wing
New Mexico – 137 from 39th Infantry Brigade Combat Team and 87th Troop Command, ans 1 Airman from 188th Fighter Wing
Texas – 53 from the 77th Theater Aviation Brigade
Arkansas – 19 support personnel at the state Joint Operations Center and the Joint Forces Headquarters

State military facilities
The Arkansas National Guard operates over 70 National Guard Readiness Centers (traditionally referred to as Armories) in 55 Arkansas Counties.  The state also maintains two Maneuver Training Centers, Chaffee Maneuver Training Center at Fort Smith, Arkansas, and Camp Robinson Maneuver Training Center at North Little Rock, Arkansas.

Fort Chaffee Maneuver Training Center
The Chaffee Maneuver Training Center (Fort Chaffee) encompasses over 65,000 acres, large enough to support Brigade size training exercises, or up to approximately 7000 soldiers. Acreage available to support Field Artillery training as well as various small arms training ranges. A recent addition to Fort Chaffee is the convoy live fire range to meet the latest training requirement of the Global War On Terrorism. Fort Chaffee became a center for processing hurricane evacuees, providing shelter and relief to over 10,000 Citizens of Louisiana during Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.

Camp Robinson Maneuver Training Center
The Camp Robinson Maneuver Training Center (Camp Joseph T, Robinson) is a 32,000 Acre facility located at North Little Rock, Arkansas, which houses the Joint Forces Headquarters, Arkansas National Guard, the Headquarters, Arkansas Air National Guard, Headquarters, 77th Combat Aviation Brigade, Headquarters, 87th Troop Command, and is home to 3 Premier Training Centers, the National Guard Professional Education Center (PEC), the Guard Marksmanship Training Center (NGMTC) and the 233rd Regional Training Institute.

Manpower
As of 2009, the Arkansas National Guard Consisted of 10,582 Soldiers and Airmen.  8,750 of these Soldiers and Airmen are considered traditional members, meaning that they are required to drill at least one weekend per month and 2 weeks per year, but often work more.  The Arkansas National Guard is supported by 1,836 full-time federal military employees and an additional 545 full-time state civilian employees.

State Military Department
The Arkansas State Military Department supports the Arkansas Guard by providing responsible fiscal, administrative, nursing, security, youth service, family support, natural resource conservation, recycling, waste water, public affairs, legal, museum, fire, police officers, skilled trades, and trained professional staff that will ensure well-maintained armories, facilities, training, and personnel administration for the National Guard.

Youth programs
The Arkansas National Guard Operates two programs to assist at-risk youth.

Youth Challenge

The Arkansas National Guard Youth Challenge program is a 22-week residential program for at-risk youth ages 16–19.  In 2009 the program graduated 109 cadets.  Of that number 71 earned a GED or a high school diploma.  Twelve graduates of the program joined the military and six enrolled in college.  The Cadets perform community service at numerous events, such as the Arkansas Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure against breast cancer.