[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Saint George S.C.

s a propaganda tool for their own administration in order to confuse and entrap the guerilla fighters. The Italians sent a messages to resistance leaders like Ras. Abebe Aregay to "come and see the people is in peace" inviting him to watch a football match at JanMeda, a popular field in Addis Ababa.

Hearing this the guerilla fighters took an Italian General as leverage not trusting the Italians and Ras. Abebe Aregay sent Demissie W/Michael to investigate the situation. Having been warned before hand to peacefully play the match, St. George was picked to play against "6 Kilo". The game quickly turned into a physical fight after kickoff with spectators often cheering and whistling to encourage the fight rather than the game. Then the game was interrupted and the Italians' plan foiled.

In 1941 when Ethiopia was liberated from fascist Italian control and Haile Selassie I had returned, it was the St. George Football club supporters along with fellow Addis Ababians that sang the national anthem "Ethiopia hoy des Yebelesh"(meaning, Rejoice Ethiopia) to welcome him back. An anthem that was written by a huge St. George supporter Yoftahe Nigussie and produced by Captain Nalbadin.

Ethiopian League Football (1944–1997) 
The first officially recognized version of an Ethiopian football league was established in 1944. Originally five teams representing the various communities of Addis Ababa including St. George (Ethiopian), Fortitudo (Italian), Ararat (Armenian), Olympiakos (Greek) and the British Military Mission in Ethiopia (BMME) contested for the title which was won by the BMME. In 1947, the country's formal national league kicked off with three teams; St. George, Mechale and Ke'ay Bahir. The club remained within the league for twenty-five years before the Derg reorganized the football leagues, and forced all existing clubs to shut down. In this process the club had its name changed to Addis Ababa Brewery in 1972 only to change it back four years later. The club switched its name back and forth for 19 years until the fall of the Derg in 1991 when the club officially changed its name back to St. George.
St. George enjoyed some dominance in the late 60's after which the league went through a period of relative parity in the 70's and 80's. However, during the premier league era no club has been more dominant than St. George S.C., amassing an impressive 15 titles since the start of the era in the 1997-98 season. As of 2017, the club has a combined 30 top division titles which is by far the most in Ethiopian football.

The Ethiopian Premier League (1997–present) 
In October 2020, German coach Ernst Middendorp joined the club after exiting Kaizer Chiefs F.C., signing a 3 year contract. In November 2020, Middendorp resigned from his position due to concerns of political unrest in Ethiopia, he was replaced by his assistant coach Maahier Davids. After only 15 matches in charge, Davids was sacked as head coach of the club in March 2021. Scotsman Frank Nuttall was hired to replace him and guided the team to a disappointing third place finish in the league. In July 2021, the club hired Serbian Zlatko Krmpotić as its new head coach.

Ownership 
The club is owned by the St. George Football Association. It is also financially supported by prominent Saudi Businessman Mohammed Hussein Al Amoudi and Ethiopian businessman Abenet Gebremeskel, who is also chairman of the club.

In June 2018 it was announced that the club would sell most of its shares to fans. In November 2020, the club announced that it had established a share company with plans to sell limited shares directly to its over 100,000 registered members.

Supporters 

Saint George have one of the largest fan bases in all of Ethiopian football and are known for their fervent displays during home matches. The team's official fan club has 32,000 registered members and according to studies conducted by the fan club there is an estimated 8 million fans throughout the country and in the Ethiopian diaspora. Often singing the club's anthem and waving yellow and orange checkered flags, the supporters of Saint George provide some of the most festive atmospheres in Ethiopian football.

The ultras of the club are known to be involved in hooliganism, which is a very prevalent phenomenon in Ethiopian football. Clashes with rival support groups are common, especially during derby matches such as in the "Sheger Derby".

In the early days chants supporters of the club used to repeat went as follows:

In reference to their early rivals "6 kilo":

«ይጫወቱ ነበር በቴስታ በጋንባ፣
መገን 6 ኪሎ ተሸንፎ ገባ።» meaning "6 kilo, although playing with their legs and kicking players with headers, they always lose"

In reference to founder Ayele Atnash.

«ግጥም አይነቃነቅም የብረት ዲጂኖ፣
እንዴት ነህ አየለ የአራዳ ቴርሲኖ?» meaning "firm as a metal steal, how are you Ayele Atnash Arada's wingback"

In reference to outstanding players Elias (who later became a pilot) and Yidnekachew.