[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Mohamed Aboutrika

ng it for free.

He believes that poverty is a double-edged sword, as it can either give rise to feelings of despair, or help the poor person to persevere and be determined. Aboutrika wishes that all those who suffer from despair could develop determination and face their difficulties with strength.

"Islam deals with the problem of poverty through zakat (spending a fixed portion of one's wealth for the poor or needy), where the rich feel the plight of the poor," says Aboutrika. "We have to help the poor as much as we can so that they don’t feel alienated in their own society" he says.

In October 2013, Aboutrika commissioned his own-sponsored mosque in Ghana when the Egyptian team arrived for the crucial 2014 World Cup playoff. The Al-Ahly ace is reported to have used his funds to build a much-needed mosque to serve the people of Tafo in the Ashanti Region.

Sympathy with Gaza
After scoring a goal in Egypt's 3–0 over Sudan in the 2008 African Cup of Nations
Aboutrika removed his jersey to show a T-shirt reading "Sympathize with Gaza". He was protesting against Israel's 10-day blockade of Gaza. He was given a yellow card for breaking FIFA's rule against displaying political slogans during play, and was said to face possible further sanctions, but finally CAF made no punishments.

Aboutrika initially did not want to discuss the issue, but he broke his silence and spoke exclusively to Al Jazeera's Carrie Brown. He said that his action was a personal statement from himself, as he feels much sympathy for the children of Gaza Strip who are under siege. He feels sorry for their starving and suffering, and has many worries about their safety. Aboutrika affirmed for the Egyptian Football Federation that he is responsible for any problems appearing on surface. In the months and years since the Carrie Brown/Aboutrika interview, much has been made as to the true meanings of Aboutrika's statement.

Some Arab commentators describes this yellow card as an 'honourable punishment' for any athlete. In Gaza, Palestinian people went out, raising Aboutrika's photos thanking him and appreciating his act. The same scene was replied after the final match, when Aboutrika scored the winning goal for Egypt, many Palestinians went out to celebrate the victory and singing for Aboutrika. Al-Hilal club in the Gaza Strip made an honouring ceremony for Aboutrika where youth team players lift flags reading "Palestine loves Aboutrika ", "Aboutrika is my idol", "Aboutrika, the humanitarian player..Gaza won't forget you" and "Aboutrika, an example of freedom and dignity". Youth team players were wearing Aboutrika 's No22.

Supporting Ultras Ahlawy
Breaking with the tradition of soccer players standing on the sidelines of popular revolts in the Middle East and North Africa, if not supporting autocratic leaders, Aboutrika announced late that he would not be joining his fellow Al Ahly players on 9 September 2012 in Egypt Super Cup final against ENPPI, Egypt's first domestic match since this month's lifting of a seven-month ban on professional soccer.

In doing so Aboutrika one of Egypt's most popular players, sided with Ultras Ahlawy, the club's highly politicized support group. The group opposes the resumption of soccer as long as justice has not been done for the 74 Ahly supporters who were killed in February Egypt's worst sporting incident in a politically loaded brawl in the Suez Canal city of Port Said and fans are not allowed to attend matches.

The brawl, which widely is believed to have been provoked by security forces in a bid to punish the ultras for their key role in the ousting of president Hosni Mubarak and violent opposition to the military that ruled Egypt until the election in July of president Mohammed Morsi in the country's first democratic poll, sparked the banning of soccer for most of this year.

 Subsequent controversy 
Aboutrika's assets were frozen in the spring of 2015 because of his shares in the Asshab Tours Company, whose manager was allegedly a Muslim Brother. Aboutrika denied any involvement in the Muslim Brotherhood saying the company's co-owner who was so accused had left the previous year. Aboutrika's two appeals were rejected, but then the administrative court overturned the verdict in June 2016. (Discourses of Public Behavior in Egypt / Sherifa Zuhur / Paper prepared for the Association of Middle Eastern and African Studies, September 2016.

On 17 January 2017, Egypt has added him to a terror list for alleged ties to the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood, his lawyer told Reuters.

Homophobia controversy
On November 29, 2021, Aboutrika, in response to a question about the UK Premier League's Rainbow Laces Campaign, on Qatari channel beIN Sports, made a number of statements critical of the campaign and of gay rights.

He was quoted saying:

"Our role is to stand up to this phenomenon, homosexuality, because it's a dangerous ideology and it's becoming nasty and people are not ashamed of it anymore.”