[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

tacked, and eventually the Confederates escaped toward Amelia Court House. This inconclusive battle, described as a Confederate rear guard action, became known as the Battle of Namozine Church. Total casualties for both sides are an estimated 75, and Confederate General Rufus Barringer was captured.

Battle of Sailor's Creek
In early April, the Confederate government abandoned Richmond, and Lee's army began moving west. On April 6, Union troops chased Lee's army to an area south of the Appomattox River near Saylor's Creek. The Battle of Sailor's Creek was concentrated in three places, and Sheridan's cavalry fought in the Marshall's Crossroads area. Sergeant Francis M. Cunningham, from CompanyH of the 1st West Virginia Cavalry, wrote that the battle "was one of the hardest cavalry fights of the war." Custer's cavalry division made numerous charges upon the Confederate lines. Although the charges were successful in capturing artillery and men, casualties were high. Armies on both sides had already suffered numerous casualties in battles at Dinwiddie Court House and Five Forks. In the case of CompanyH, only four men remained for the final charge.

As Henry Capehart, commander of Custer's 3rd Brigade, reviewed the Confederate army's position, Custer rode along the lines in plain view of the Confederate infantry, taunting his enemy with captured Confederate battle flags. The Confederates responded by taking numerous shots at the general, hitting his horse. Custer dismounted without injury. Capehart realized that the Confederates would need time to reload their single-shot rifles, and requested permission for his 3rd Brigade to attack immediately. Custer quickly agreed, and Capehart's brigade of about 1,400 cavalry men including the 1st West Virginia Cavalry charged the Confederate lines.

Capehart's men used sabers, carbines, and revolvers to move through three Confederate infantry lines. A large portion of Ewell's corps became surrounded, causing many of the demoralized Confederate soldiers to surrender. Thus, the Union troops captured more than 20 percent of Lee's army. Approximately 8,000 Confederate soldiers, including eight generals, were killed or captured.  Among the surrendering generals was the corps commander Ewell. Another general captured was Custis Lee, eldest son of the commander of the Army of Northern Virginia, Robert E. Lee. Upon seeing the battered survivors from his army, Robert E. Lee said "My God, has the army dissolved?" Although many men from General Richard H. Anderson's IV Corps escaped westward, the battle is considered the "death knell" for Lee's Confederate Army. The Battle of Sailor's Creek was the last major battle of the American Civil War.

Five men from the 1st West Virginia Cavalry were awarded the Medal of Honor for actions in this battle. Captain Hugh P. Boon received his medal for capturing a flag. Boon's CompanyB was part of a charge when he noticed a battalion of enemy infantry on the right. He led his company away from the original charge, moving toward the infantry. His company routed the Confederate battalion, and Boon captured the flag of the 10th Georgia Infantry. Although Boon was worried that he did not exactly follow orders, a superior officer witnessed the affair and acknowledged that the captain took appropriate action. Sergeant Francis M. Cunningham's Medal of Honor citation reads "Capture of battle flag of 12th Virginia Infantry (C.S.A.) in hand-to-hand battle while wounded." Cunningham's horse had been killed, but he found a Confederate mule that leaped a Confederate breastworks when the regiment made a charge. Although Cunningham, who was from CompanyH, was shot twice (but survived), he captured a Confederate flag using his saber. Custer later recommended Cunningham for the award. Commissary Sergeant William Houlton won his medal for the capture of a flag, but the regiment was not identified in the citation. Corporal Emisire Shahan from CompanyA received his medal for "Capture of flag of 76th Georgia Infantry (C.S.A.)". The citation for Medal of Honor winner Private Daniel A. Woods, who was from CompanyK, says "Capture of flag of 18th Florida Infantry (C.S.A.)".