[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Polícia Judiciária

t, the Polícia Judiciária was restructured for the second time pursuant to Decree-Law No. 275-A/2000 of 9 November 2000. Both instruments were amended in 2008 with the publication of LOIC No. 49/2008 of 27 August 2008 and of the Polícia Judiciária’s new organic law, Law No. 37/2008 of 6 August 2008.

More than 19 years after the entry into force of Decree-Law No. 275-A/2000 of 9 November 2000, approving the organisational structure of the PJ and the statutory rules governing the special corps of this police, and more than 10 years since Law No. 37/2008 of 6 August 2008, aiming to adapt the structure to emerging organisational and operational requirements and which has since been complemented by Decree-Law No. 42/2009 of 12 February 2009, defining the powers of the core units of the PJ, reality shows a change that needs to be addressed.

In fact, the last decades have seen profound social and economic changes that go beyond the territorial barriers of the State, with unequivocal repercussions as to the way in which criminal acts are committed. The danger posed today by the phenomenon of terrorism and the constant change in transnational organised crime, which is becoming increasingly sophisticated, therefore evokes realities that call for an appropriate and effective response by the State.

In the current criminological context of imminent danger to essential legal assets worthy of criminal protection, and in view of the unpredictability of the actions of criminal and terrorist organisations, it is essential that the State secures the purpose of strengthening the PJ as to its primarily recognised role in the prevention and investigation of the most serious forms of crime, as is the case with transnational organised crime and cybercrime, due to the sophistication in criminal action with resort to new and complex technologies that are not limited to the geographical area of the national territory.

The legal framework governing the structure of the PJ, scattered over a number of pieces of legislation, justifies the organisational redefinition of the PJ, providing it internally with more interactive and efficient operational units, in order to enhance the contribution of this police in the scope of its primary intervention in the judicial and prosecuting system, to which the PJ is intimately linked, as well as within the internal security system in which it is integrated. Thus, the mission and tasks of the PJ are deepened, in view of the current legal and institutional framework in terms of criminal investigation and internal security, with the resulting anticipated organisation of powers conferred by the aforementioned systems.

The challenges faced by the Portuguese society today are based on the strong conviction that a specially prepared, technically and scientifically robust criminal police is essential, backed by an organisational structure founded on the idea of a greater interconnection between the various units, making it clear that the operational core structure is based on units integrating the criminal investigation area. It is also important to note that the performance of those noticeably operational units is complemented by units that, sharing the same nature, perform the essential task of providing technical support to crime prevention and investigation, thus establishing a greater operational interconnection.

The scientific autonomy of those units performing specialised support tasks, of technical and scientific nature, to criminal investigation is also strengthened. This autonomy results not only from their formal confirmation, but, above all, from the definition of their powers, taking into account the highly technical and scientific nature of the tasks they are legally entrusted with for carrying out expertise and examinations, as is the case with the Forensic Science Laboratory, the Financial and Accounting Expertise Unit and the now established Technological and Computer Expertise Unit.

At the same time, the role of other organisational units has been redefined, integrating them in the management and organisational development area and in the management control, performance evaluation, and inspection and disciplinary control area, granting these areas powers that reveal a suitability to modern organisational paradigms of the State and an improvement of management and evaluation instruments, as a fundamental step towards providing the PJ with mechanisms placing it on the level of a modern criminal investigation police capable of responding effectively, also from an organisational point of view, to the arising challenges. The Services Directorate for Innovation and Development and the Services Directorate for Planning, Quality and Evaluation are examples thereof, together with the traditional management units for both property and human resources.