[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 12th Academy Awards

The 12th Academy Awards ceremony, held on February 29, 1940 by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS), honored the best in film for 1939 at a banquet in the Coconut Grove at The Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles. It was hosted by Bob Hope, in his first of nineteen turns as host. 

David O. Selznick's Gone with the Wind received the most nominations of the year with thirteen, winning eight Oscars (both records at the time). This year was the first in which multiple films received ten or more nominations (Mr. Smith Goes to Washington received eleven).

This was the first year in which Best Visual Effects was a competitive category; previously, "special achievement" awards for effects had occasionally been conferred. This year, Best Cinematography was split into Color and Black & White categories.

Hattie McDaniel became the first African-American to receive an Academy Award, winning Best Supporting Actress for Gone with the Wind. Mickey Rooney became the second-youngest nominee for Best Actor at 19, and the first teenager to be nominated for an Academy Award, for his performance in Babes in Arms.

Winners and nominees 

Nominees were announced on February 11, 1940. AMPAS presented Academy Awards of Merit in 20 categories. Nominees for each award are listed below; award winners are listed first and highlighted in boldface.

Academy Honorary Awards 

Academy Honorary Awards were presented to:

 Douglas Fairbanks "recognizing the unique and outstanding contribution of Douglas Fairbanks, first President of the Academy, to the international development of the motion picture".
 Motion Picture Relief Fund "acknowledging the outstanding services to the industry during the past year of the Motion Picture Relief Fund and its progressive leadership". Presented to Jean Hersholt, President; Ralph Morgan, Chairman of the executive committee; Ralph Block, First Vice-President; and Conrad Nagel. 
 William Cameron Menzies "for outstanding achievement in the use of color for the enhancement of dramatic mood in the production of Gone with the Wind".
 The Technicolor Company "for its contributions in successfully bringing three-color feature production to the screen".

Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award 

The Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award was presented to David O. Selznick.

Academy Juvenile Award 
The Academy Juvenile Award was presented to Judy Garland for The Wizard of Oz.

Multiple nominations and awards 

The following nineteen films received multiple nominations:
 13 nominations: Gone with the Wind
 11 nominations: Mr. Smith Goes to Washington
 8 nominations: Wuthering Heights
 7 nominations: Goodbye, Mr. Chips and Stagecoach
 6 nominations: Love Affair and The Wizard of Oz
 5 nominations: The Private Lives of Elizabeth and Essex and The Rains Came
 4 nominations: Ninotchka and Of Mice and Men
 3 nominations: Dark Victory and Man of Conquest
 2 nominations: Babes in Arms, Beau Geste, First Love, The Great Victor Herbert, Gulliver's Travels, and The Hunchback of Notre Dame

The following three films received multiple awards:
 8 awards: Gone with the Wind
 2 awards: Stagecoach and The Wizard of Oz

The lead-up to the awards ceremony 

Prior to the announcement of nominations, Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and Gone with the Wind were the two films most widely tipped to receive a significant number of nominations. Mr. Smith Goes to Washington premiered in Washington with a premier party hosted by the National Press Club who found themselves portrayed unfavourably in the film; the film's theme of political corruption was condemned and the film was denounced in the U.S. Senate. Joseph P. Kennedy, the U.S. Ambassador to Britain urged President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the studio head Harry Cohn to cease showing the film overseas because "it will cause our allies to view us in an unfavourable light". Among those who campaigned in favour of the film were Hedda Hopper who declared it "as great as Lincoln's Gettysburg speech", while Sheilah Graham called it the "best talking picture ever made". Screen Book magazine stated that it "should win every Academy Award". Frank Capra, the director, and James Stewart, the film's star were considered front runners to win awards.