[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jesuit Volunteer Corps

n be attributed to the new service programs, many of which were modeled after JVC.

In 2015, Timothy Shriver was named the president of JVC. The Washington Post wrote an article about a JV community in Washington DC. In 2016, PBS published a video story on the JV community in Scranton, Pennsylvania.

Catholicism
JVC incorporates Catholic teachings and spirituality into its programs, but is open to volunteers of all faiths. Pope Francis, a Jesuit, has inspired Jesuit Volunteers.

Colleges
JVs come from many different colleges, including from Jesuit colleges. JVC recruits actively on the campuses of the Jesuit colleges in the United States, at Catholic colleges, and on the campuses of other universities. In 2014, eighteen graduates from the College of the Holy Cross joined JVC. In 2014, twelve graduates of Loyola University Maryland joined JVC. Many graduates from Boston College also join JVC.

Four values of JVC
Through retreats, local formation teams, and community living, volunteers are immersed in the "four values" of JVC: spirituality, community, simple living, and social justice. Jesuit volunteers make a commitment to the JVC program and to their service placements to strive to live these four values. JVC communities have evenings dedicated to spirituality and communal life. JVC is guided by the principles of Ignatian spirituality—named for St. Ignatius of Loyola, founder of the Society of Jesus, or the Jesuits. One of the core principles of Ignatian Spirituality is to find God in all things and all people. JVC has offered JVs spiritual advisors, retreats, and community spirituality nights. Many JVs work for justice, Ad maiorem Dei gloriam, for the greater glory of God. JV community houses are often located in low-income neighborhoods, aiming to expose JVs to the daily realities of living on the margins of society. JVs live on modest monthly stipends. The lifestyle aims to help JVs live in solidarity with the people they are working with. JVs live in an intentional community with other JVs working in their city. JVC aims to give JVs a greater understanding of some of the systemic causes of injustice by connecting JVs with disenfranchised people through work and in their communities.

Former Jesuit volunteers
After completing their service with JVC, many former Jesuit volunteers (FJVs) create a subculture of faith and service in the church. As of 2006, there were twelve thousand former Jesuit Volunteers worldwide. In Washington, D.C., former JVs, progressive adult Catholics, and others meet for faith-sharing groups and potluck dinners. This community is called "Guerilla Communion". Former Jesuit Volunteers or FJVs use the phrase "ruined for life" to describe their time of service with JVC. The term "ruined for life" was coined by JVC's founder Jack Morris. Some FJVs have entered religious life.

Notable alumni
 Hunter Biden, attorney, son of President Joseph R. Biden - served with JVC Northwest
 Bob Casey Jr., attorney, U.S. senator from Pennsylvania - served as a Jesuit volunteer at the Gesu School in North Philadelphia teaching fifth grade after graduating from the College of the Holy Cross
Joe Cimperman, Ohio politician 
 Bob Ferguson, Attorney General of Washington, former member of the King County Council - worked with poor children in Portland, Oregon
 Bridget Gainer, Cook County Commissioner 
 Daniel J. Hilferty, president and CEO of Independence Blue Cross - ran a community center in Portland, Oregon
 Monica Márquez, Colorado Supreme Court justice - worked at an elementary school in Camden, New Jersey
Michael J. McShane, federal judge
 U.S. Senator Tim Kaine is often identified as a participant in Jesuit Volunteers, but he went to Honduras to work at a Jesuit-run vocational school in 1980, before Jesuit Volunteers had a stand-alone international program. By his own account, while a high school student in 1974 Kaine visited a Jesuit mission in Honduras that had ties to his Jesuit high school. In 1980, after completing his first year of law school and without the support of any organization, he contacted that mission and arranged to work at its vocational training school as a volunteer teacher.
 Jacob Padrón, artistic director

References

External links