[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Solomon Cartwright

John Solomon Cartwright,  (September 17, 1804 – January 15, 1845) was a Canadian businessman, lawyer, judge, farmer and political figure in Kingston, Upper Canada.  He was a supporter of the Family Compact, an oligarchic group which had dominated control of the government of Upper Canada through their influence with the British governors.  He was also a member of the Compact Tory political group, first in the Legislative Assembly of Upper Canada, and then in the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada.

In spite of his relative youth when first elected in 1836, age 32, he was an influential member of the Compact Tory group in the Assembly.  He was courted by two governors general to join the executive council of the Province of Canada, but declined each time, not willing to associate in government with the radical Reform members of the Assembly.  He favoured including French-Canadians in the government of the new Province of Canada, but opposed the use of French in the Assembly and the courts.

In the aftermath of the Upper Canada Rebellion of 1837, he acted as a prosecutor in the trials of some alleged rebels, and was one of the military judges in the court martial of Nils von Schoultz, who had led an invasion force from the United States. In the trials, Cartwright worked with a rising young Kingston lawyer, John A. Macdonald, the future Prime Minister of Canada. In addition to his legal practice, he was involved in successful banking and land transactions.

Wealthy, and holding a large farming estate near Kingston, Cartwright donated land and buildings for public purposes in Kingston and neighbouring Napanee.  A bon vivant, he enjoyed gambling with cards for high stakes, horse racing, and the elegancies of life, both food and good wine.

Cartwright died of tuberculosis in 1845, aged 40.

Early life and family 
John Cartwright was born in Kingston, Upper Canada on September 17, 1804, the son of Richard Cartwright, a Loyalist, and Magdalen Secord, sister-in-law of Laura Secord, the Loyalist heroine. John's father was engaged in commerce and politics, being a member of the Legislative Council of Upper Canada.  His father was also instrumental in bringing John Strachan to Kingston, initially to tutor John and his twin brother Robert.  Strachan went on to become the first Bishop of Toronto for the Church of England in Canada, and a pillar of the Family Compact, an oligarchic conservative group that had informal control over the provincial government.

Richard Cartwright died in 1815, when John and his twin brother were ten years old.  He left John an inheritance of £10,000.  John and Robert had older siblings, but several died of tuberculosis.

In 1831, John married Sarah Hayter Macaulay, daughter of James Macaulay.  The couple had seven children. While studying theology at Oxford University, his brother Robert married Harriet Dobbs of Ireland.  Their son, John's nephew, was Sir Richard John Cartwright, who had a notable political career in the Parliament of Canada, although as a Liberal.

Cartwright was somewhat of a throwback to the Regency era, rather than the new Victorian period.  He enjoyed horse-racing and betting, gambling with cards for high stakes, and the elegancies of life, good food and wine.  Like most of the Family Compact, he was a strong supporter of the Anglican church.  He was also a freemason, eventually becoming a warden of a masonic lodge in Kingston.

Legal and business career

Deciding to enter the legal profession, at the age of 16 Cartwright left home for York, the capital of Upper Canada, where he articled with John Beverley Robinson.  Robinson was the attorney general for Upper Canada and one of the main leaders of the Upper Canada Tories and the Family Compact.  Following his articles with Robinson, Cartwright was called to the bar of Upper Canada in 1825. In 1827, after the death of his mother, he went to London and studied law at Lincoln's Inn, while his twin brother Robert attended Oxford, studying for the ministry.  Cartwright returned to Kingston in 1830, where he established his legal practice and quickly became one of Kingston's leading lawyers.

In addition to his legal practice, Cartwright was involved in banking and real estate transactions.  In 1832, he became the first president of the local Kingston bank, the Commercial Bank of the Midland District.  He was the unanimous choice of the bank directors, even though he was only 28 years old. Under his leadership over the next fourteen years, the Commercial Bank became the leading bank of the eastern part of the province, and was the only bank that did not suspend payments in specie during the Upper Canada Rebellion in 1837. In 1834, he became a judge in the Midland District and was named Queen's Counsel in 1838. Although a young man in his mid-thirties, he had developed a strong reputation for prudence, sobriety and integrity in his business dealings.