[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Shaman King characters

ve Yoh and his friends from falling into oblivion, expressing happiness and relief that he could finally help Yoh. Several years later, he attends college in America, studying ways to combine shamanism with business, and brings presents for his friends at their reunion at Funbari Onsen.

Hao Asakura

 ("Zeke Asakura" in the English dub of the 2001 anime) is the main antagonist of Shaman King, currently the second reincarnation of his original self and the twin brother of Yoh. He is the most powerful participant in the Shaman Tournament, with Furyoku at 1,250,000, an extremely high level compared with the other characters' Furyoku levels in Shaman King.  While he exhibits ruthlessness towards his opponents, he acts surprisingly easy-going and affable, similar to Yoh's personality.

Originally, one thousand years ago, Hao was the founder of the Asakura family and a powerful Onmyōji priest who possessed incredible spiritual powers, including the ability to sense the thoughts and desires of those around him. Regarded as a master of the Wu Xing pentagram, he was able to control the five elements that give form to creation. However, his compassionate heart was overcome by his deep-seated desire to avenge his mother's death and his growing hatred of humans because of their selfish natures. Failing to win his first Shaman King tournament because of the combined efforts of the Asakura family to stop him, Hao was able to reincarnate with full awareness of his past life in time to participate in the next tournament and again for the current tournament.

In his second life five centuries later, Hao was reincarnated as a member of the Patch Tribe, who would be an ancestor to Silva, and massacred the Seminoa tribe. After successfully taking control of the Spirit of Fire, an elemental spirit that embodies the essence of one of the five elements of nature, he attempted to become Shaman King again. Despite possessing such advantages, he was defeated by Yohken Asakura, one of his descendants, and the spirit Matamune, who reluctantly put aside his love and loyalty for Hao for the sake of saving the world.

In his most recent reincarnation, Hao chose to reincarnate as a member of the Asakura family by splitting his soul between Keiko Asakura's twin sons. The newborn Hao escaped the Asakura family's attempt on his life with the Spirit of Fire, while badly burning Mikihisa, leaving Yoh behind with the promise to reclaim him someday. During the 1998 Shaman Fight, gathering an entourage of followers, Hao succeeds in becoming Shaman King but is convinced by Yoh and his friends not to wipe out humanity and ultimately forgive them. But during the events of Shaman King: Flowers, Hao assembles a team of shamans to represent him in the Flower of Maize tournament, by his Shaman King predecessors, when they agreed to hold it after a vote of no confidence.

Hana Asakura

 is the son of Yoh Asakura and Anna Kyoyama who is the protagonist of Shaman King: Flowers, first introduced in the Shaman King epilogue sidestory "Funbari no Uta" as an infant traveling alongside Ryu to find the Five Grand Elemental Spirits. He is depicted as a Shaman having Yoh's spirit guardian, Amidamaru, alongside him using him with the  weapon to create two Over Souls,  and  . He lives at Tamao Tamamura's care while his parents are absent.  Hana is bored with his life and finds the appearance of his fiancé Alumi Niumbirch and his proclaimed enemies Yohane and Luka Asakura as a way to kill his boredom. Hana also possesses several Oni sealed inside him that will be summoned when he is in danger in order to protect him. They were placed by his uncle, Hao Asakura, when he was a baby.

Supporting characters

Ryunosuke Umemiya

, known more commonly as  and "Rio" in the 4Kids English dub of the 2001 anime, is introduced as a gang leader who is always on the lookout for his "Happy Place" ("Best Place" in the Japanese version and the "Sacred Hang" in the 2001 anime's English dub) and cute girls, prone to getting his elaborate pomapour damaged as a running gag for the first half of the series. His gang is known as the Dead Enders in the English anime and they are very devoted to Ryu, who returns their dedication to him. Following his defeat by Yoh, Ryu ends up being possessed by Tokagero while finding a potential hang out at a rundown bowling alley in Funbari. After being saved by Yoh, Ryu became a devoted friend with aspirations of becoming a chef once the Funbari Hot Springs is established.