[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bicol University

S Meteorology

5. Graduate School (BUGS) 

This is divided into two categories:

 Master of Arts Degree (Masteral or MA)

 Doctoral Degree (Doctorate or PhD)

They are both offered with thesis or with no thesis. 

6. Institute of Physical Education, Sports and Recreation (BUIPESR) 

Courses Offered:

 BS in Exercise & Sports Sciences
 Bachelor of Physical Education

7. College of Medicine (BUCM)

Course Offered: Doctor of Medicine 

8. College of Law (BUCL)

Course Offered: Juris Doctor

9. Jesse M. Robredo Institute of Governance and Development (BUJMRIGD) 

Course Offered: Bachelor of Public Administration

10. Open University (BUOU)

Course Offered: BS Development Communication 

11. College of Dental Medicine (CDM)

Course Offered: Doctor of Dental Medicine 

The Doctor of Dental Medicine is the latest course that had been approved in this campus.  

It also hosts the Bicol University College of Education Integrated Laboratory School-Elementary Department and Bicol University College of Education Integrated Laboratory School-High School Department (BUCEILS-HS). The Bicol University Main Library, Student Union Center, Amphitheater and the Little Theater are also found in this campus.

Legazpi East Campus 

Located in Enlisted Men's Barrio (EM Barrio), Barangay 1 also in Legazpi City, the campus hosts the College of Engineering (BUCENG), College of Industrial Technology (BUCIT) and the Institute of Design and Architecture (BUIDeA).

Daraga Campus 
Located in Sagpon, Daraga, Albay, and is less than a kilometer from the main campus, the campus consists of the College of Social Sciences and Philosophy (BUCSSP) and College of Business, Economics and Management (BUCBEM). This campus was formerly called College of Arts and Science (BUCAS).

The BUCSSP offers the following programs:

 BS Psychology
 BS Social Work
 AB Philosophy
 AB Political Science
 AB Peace Studies
 AB Sociology

The BUCBEM offers the following programs:

 BS Accountancy
 BS Economics
 BS Entrepreneurship
 BS Management
 BS in Business Administration Major in Financial Management
 BS in Business Administration Major in Human Resource Management
 BS in Business Administration Major in Marketing Management
 BS in Business Administration Major in Operations Management
 BS in Business Administration Major in Microfinance

Tabaco Campus 
Located in Tayhi, Tabaco, Albay. Courses offered in this campus are Bachelor of Science in Nursing, Food Technology, Social Work, Fisheries and Aquaculture, Marine Fisheries, Fish Technology, Coastal Resource Management, Secondary Education, and Entrepreneurship.

Guinobatan Campus 
Located along the Pan-Philippine Highway in the town of Guinobatan, Albay, formerly known as Guinobatan Rural High School in 1927; Roxas Memorial Agricultural School in 1950; Bicol University College of Agriculture (BUCA) in 1969 through RA 5521; with the offering of Bachelor of Science in Forestry starting in 1991, is now known as Bicol University College of Agriculture and Forestry (BUCAF). BUCAF is a member of Philippine Agroforestry Education and Research Network (PAFERN)

Polangui Campus 
Located in Centro Occidental, Polangui, Albay, this was formerly known as the School for Philippine Craftsmen and offered vocational courses. It was integrated into Bicol University, through R.A. 7722, R.A. 8292 & R.A. 8769, on December 14, 2000, and renamed as Bicol University Polangui Campus. From the five courses offered in 2000, it now offers fifteen courses including BS in Nursing, BS in Computer Engineering and BS in Electronics and Communications Engineering.

Gubat Campus 
Located in Gubat, Sorsogon, the only campus outside of Albay, this campus offers bachelor's degrees in Agricultural Technology, Secondary and Elementary Education, Fisheries, Food Technology, Entrepreneurship, Peace and Security Studies and Computer Science are offered in this campus.

Facilities and services

Library System 
The University Library System is for the use of students and other researchers. It has a collection of books in different fields of knowledge and all the published undergraduate and graduate research. It is composed of ten sub-libraries, namely:
 The University Library
 College of Education Library
 College of Nursing Library
 College of Agriculture and Forestry Library
 ILS-Elementary Library
 ILS-High School Library
 East Campus Library
 Polangui Campus Library
 Tabaco Campus Library
 Gubat Campus Library

Athletics 
It organizes and facilitates the conduct of intercollegiate sports and the university's participation in sports events. It runs wellness and fitness programs. Some of its facilities for athletics include a soccer field, olympic-sized swimming pool, a rubberized track oval, and a grandstand.

Radio station 
The university has its own radio station, BUFM 106.3.

Notable alumni