[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Community of Democracies

orking Group on Democracy and Technology
 Working Group on C.O.D Governance and Effectiveness

Affiliated bodies 
The C.O.D consults two external bodies on a regular basis.

Academic Advisory Board (AAB) 
The Academic Advisory Board assists the work of the C.O.D by providing an academic perspective.

Civil Society Pillar 
The Civil Society Pillar (also Civil Society Assembly) refers to the non-governmental process of the C.O.D, including civil society organizations, foundations, and experts devoted to promoting democracy. It is represented by the non-governmental "International Steering Committee" (ISC), which is composed of 26 leaders of civil society organizations from all regions of the world, the Chair and Vice-Chair and the organization which serves as the ISC's secretariat. In April 2018, Fundacion Multitudes was elected as the first Permanent Secretariat of the CSP and Paulina Ibarra as Chair of the ISC. The ISC advises governments on the actions needed to enable civil society to work freely to strengthen democracy, rule of law, and protection for the fundamental rights enshrined in the Warsaw Declaration. The ISC coordinates a variety of initiatives for civil society, including the civil society forum taking place in the biannual Ministerial Conferences of the Community, which results in a set of recommendations to the Ministerial Declaration made by civil society representatives.

Other activities

Myanmar Constitutional Democracy Project

In 2018, the C.O.D finalized the Phase III of the Myanmar Constitutional Democracy Project, implemented cooperation with Australia-Myanmar Constitutional Democracy Project, that aimed to facilitate an inclusive constitutional framework, through embracing all stakeholders within society and providing them with the necessary legal tools and language to engage in the process of drafting and amending it. In 2018, the C.O.D published a Building a Democratic Constitutional Culture in Myanmar booklet, which contains a summary of fundamental principles and concepts of constitutional democracy with a particular focus on those most relevant to the situation in Myanmar. Together with the two constitutional democracy workshops, held in Myanmar in February 2018, the booklet constitutes an effort to increase the capacity of key stakeholders to participate in the process of democratic reforms in Myanmar, extend their knowledge on constitutional matters, as well as to contribute to the development and support of a culture of constitutionalism in Myanmar.

Advancing Women's Political Participation 
To support women's participation in politics, the Community of Democracies created a project called "Advancing Women's Political Participation", aiming to implement it in cooperation with the United Nations Development  Programme (UNDP) and International IDEA. As part of the project, five regional consultations were held on the margins of large international democracy-related events in Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America. Consultation brought together politicians, state officials, civil society activists, academics, and members of international and regional organizations to discuss gender equality and strategies for advancing women's political empowerment in the MENA region. The project's five regional reports and final report contain specific policy recommendations on the advancement of women's political participation in each region.

See also 
 Atlantic Union
 Community of Democratic Choice
 Community for Democracy and Human Rights
 Council for a Community of Democracies
 GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development
 International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA)
 United Nations Parliamentary Assembly

References

External links 

 Official web page of the Community of Democracies
 Official Homepage of the Fundación Multitudes

 
Intergovernmental organizations
International organisations or its agencies based in Warsaw
Organizations established in 2000
Democracy