[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ryan Dickson

ade his debut on 15 February as Orient beat AFC Bournemouth 2–1 at Dean Court. During his nine games with the club, Dickson was sent off twice, once for a second bookable offence in a 1–0 win against Oldham Athletic on 27 March and the second a straight red card on 14 April against Sheffield United.

Bradford City loan
With his club now plying their trade in the Premier League, Dickson found himself further out of favour, as he was eventually loaned out to Bradford City on 11 January until the end of the season. He made his debut for the Bantams in their 2–1 home loss to Oxford United the following day. He scored once in his six appearances for City, netting in a 2–2 draw with Fleetwood Town on 2 February.

Dickson's loan spell was cut short after being ruled out for six months as he required ankle surgery. Dickson was subsequently released from Southampton in June 2013.

Colchester United
Following an unsuccessful trial spell with his former club Plymouth Argyle, Dickson joined League One club Colchester United on trial prior to signing a one-year contract with the club in July 2013. He made his debut for the U's in the opening game of the 2013–14 season, a 1–0 win at Gillingham on 3 August.

After a sprightly start to his Colchester career, Dickson was knocked back by a debilitating illness in September 2013, leaving him out of action for two months, as he was replaced by Everton loanee Luke Garbutt. He recovered to end the season with 35 appearances to his name.

Crawley Town
Ryan Dickson was Crawley Town's third signing of the season on a two-year contract after leaving Colchester United. Dickson was awarded Crawley Town's player of the season award for the 2014–15 season.

Yeovil Town
On 1 July 2015, Dickson joined Yeovil Town on a two-year contract for a nominal fee after requesting to leave Crawley Town. He was released by Yeovil at the end of the 2017–18 season.

Torquay United
On 16 July 2018, Dickson signed for National League South side Torquay United. He was signed to play a central midfield role at the club.

Career statistics

Honours
Brentford
Football League Two: 2008–09

Torquay United
National League South: 2018–19

Individual
Crawley Town Player of the Year: 2014–15

References

External links

1986 births
Living people
People from Saltash
English men's footballers
Men's association football defenders
Men's association football midfielders
Plymouth Argyle F.C. players
Torquay United F.C. players
Brentford F.C. players
Southampton F.C. players
Yeovil Town F.C. players
Leyton Orient F.C. players
Bradford City A.F.C. players
Colchester United F.C. players
Crawley Town F.C. players
Truro City F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Southern Football League players
Footballers from Cornwall