[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Russian Empire–United States relations

The relations between the Russian Empire and the United States (1776–1917) predate the Soviet Russia/Soviet Union–United States relations (1917–1991) and the modern Russia–United States relations (1991–present). Russia officially recognized the United States in 1803, and the two countries established diplomatic relations in 1809. From 1776 to 1917  the US and Russia maintained cordial relations, with occasional cultural and commercial exchanges. Russia was neutral during the American  Civil War, but tended to favor the North; in contrast to Britain’s policy of  favoring The South. It sold Alaska on favorable terms in 1867.  However, there were also tensions between the two countries, particularly over mistreatment of Jews in Russia in the 1890-1914 era.  Trade relations were cordial but were never a major factor for either nation. Large-scale migration from Russia began in the late 19th century. Minorities emigrated to the U.S. especially Jews, Poles, Lithuanians, and Finns, but few ethnic Russians.  In the late 19th century, the two countries began to cooperate on issues such as maritime law and trade. This cooperation continued into the early 20th century. The U.S. was reluctant to become an ally of the undemocratic Tsar in World War I. His abdication in early 1917 facilitated American entry into the war.  Overall, the relations were characterized by occasional cooperation and limited engagement, with both countries primarily focused on their own domestic and international priorities.

Country comparison

Leaders of the Russian Empire and the United States from 1800 to 1917.

Russian involvement in the American Revolutionary War

Relations between the two countries began in 1776, when the United States declared its independence from Great Britain.

Earlier contacts had occurred. In 1763, a Boston merchant had anchored his ship at the port of Kronstadt after a direct transatlantic voyage.

Despite being geographically removed from the American scene, Russia under Catherine the Great significantly affected the American Revolution through diplomacy. While Catherine personally oversaw most Russian interactions with the new country, she also entrusted certain tasks to her foreign advisor, Nikita Ivanovich Panin, who often acted on Catherine's behalf when it came to matters of international diplomacy.  Catherine and Panin interacted with the British government through James Harris, 1st Earl of Malmesbury, at the Russian court.  The decisions made by Catherine and Panin during the Revolution to remain officially neutral, refuse Britain's requests for military assistance, and insist on peace talks that linked a resolution of the American Revolution with the settlement of separate European conflicts indirectly helped the Americans win the Revolution and gain independence.

Russian-American trade
Small scale direct trade between Russia and the colonies began as early as 1763. Such trade was a violation of Britain's Navigation Acts, which allowed the Thirteen Colonies to trade only with Britain. Russian products such as hemp, sail linen and iron had started arriving in colonial ports years before the American Revolutionary War began and did not stop when the war started. America and Russia saw each other as trading partners.

Throughout the Revolutionary War, Catherine believed an independent American nation would be ideal for Russian business interests. While some Russian leaders worried that an independent America might interfere with Russia's trade with other European nations, Catherine saw direct Russian-American trade as an excellent opportunity to expand commerce. Catherine knew that after the war, a free America could trade directly with Russia without interference. Moreover, if the Americans gained their freedom, Britain would have to turn to other countries such as Russia to supply it with the resources that could no longer be simply extracted from America.

Neutrality
Catherine chose to have Russia remain officially neutral during the Revolution and never openly picked sides during the war. On an unofficial basis, however, she acted favorably towards the American colonists by offering to provide them all that she could without compromising Russia's neutrality and her eventual desire to act as a mediator.