[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Al Golden

cated by Lane Kiffin, who went to Southern California. In May 2010, Golden signed a contract extension with Temple through 2014. He led the Owls to an 8–4 record in 2010.

Miami
On December 12, 2010, ESPN reported that Golden was offered and accepted the head coaching job at the University of Miami.

In press conference remarks upon his hiring on December 13, 2010, Golden emphasized the importance of the University of Miami football legacy. "It's the most recognizable brand in college football," he said. "I go back to the former players that are here, the five national championships, 20 national award winners, countless All-Americans, incredible tradition. It's a dream job." Golden signed a five-year contract at an undisclosed salary on December 14, 2010. However, due to NCAA rules, Golden did not coach the football team in Miami's bowl game against Notre Dame but instead focused on recruiting players for 2011.
Despite fielding teams with multiple future NFL draft picks, Golden was unable to defeat Florida State, his in state rival, in 5 attempts. Golden began his tenure hampered by probation from a previous booster scandal, and self-imposed bowl bans during Golden's first two years with the program.

2011 season

Golden posted a 6–6 record in his first year at the University of Miami. The 2011 season was only the third time since 1979 that the program had failed to register a winning record.  Despite being bowl-eligible, Miami announced on November 20 that it was withdrawing from bowl consideration due to an ongoing investigation into the program's ties to convicted Ponzi schemeer Nevin Shapiro.

2012 season
The Hurricanes registered a 7–5 record in 2012 and were in contention for a Coastal Division title for much of the year. However, with the NCAA investigation still not resolved, on November 19, Miami announced it was withdrawing from bowl consideration for a second consecutive season. Reportedly, school officials remembered how Ohio State opted to play in a bowl in the 2011 season with an NCAA investigation still underway only to be banned from bowl consideration the following year.

2013 season
Golden's third season at Miami saw more improvement from the previous two. The Hurricanes got off to a 7–0 start, including a win over rival Florida, and were ranked as high as #7 in the AP Poll. Their first loss came to eventual national champion Florida State, which started a 3-game losing streak for Miami. The Hurricanes ended the regular season at 9-3 (5-3 ACC), good for 2nd place in the Coastal Division. Golden's team was invited to the 2013 Russell Athletic Bowl, which the Canes lost 36–9 at the hands of future ACC foe Louisville.

2014 season
Golden's fourth season at Miami was seen as a disappointment by many. The Hurricanes began the season with a 6–3 record, but lost their next four games beginning with a heartbreaking home loss to defending national champions Florida State and concluding with an uninspired defeat at the hands of South Carolina in the Duck Commander Independence Bowl. Golden's Hurricanes finished the season 6-7 despite being picked by many experts to win the ACC Coastal Division Championship and seven of its players being drafted by NFL franchises which was tied with Alabama for 4th most by a school, behind only Florida State (11), Louisville (10) and Florida (8).

2015 season
The Hurricanes began their season with a 3–0 start, with wins over Florida Atlantic University, Bethune-Cookman, and Nebraska. However, in their fourth game they were defeated by the Cincinnati Bearcats at Nippert Stadium. Fans clamored to see his immediate dismissal, even flying anti-Golden banners before games,. Even Florida State Seminoles fans got in on the act, attempting to raise money for their own "Keep Al Golden" banner with a GoFundMe campaign. Due to area banner planes being booked for the contest between the storied rivals on October 10, 2015, funds raised were instead donated to the  Kidz 1st Fund charity organization in lieu of hiring a plane. Other reports suggested that Florida State and Miami officials pressured the campaign's manager to not fly the banner out of respect for the coach. During the buildup for that year's matchup, archrival Florida State sarcastically expressed their admiration for Golden's ability in leading the once mighty Hurricanes and began selling similarly themed "Keep Al Golden" T-shirts at their official bookstore. On the day of the game itself, fans posted mock "Missing Persons" notices throughout Tallahassee questioning the whereabouts of the formerly feared Hurricanes program as they welcomed them for their biennial visit to Tallahassee and FSU's Doak Campbell Stadium.