[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2006 New Orleans mayoral election

The first round of the New Orleans mayoral election of 2006 took place on April 22, 2006; a runoff between incumbent Mayor Ray Nagin and Louisiana Lieutenant Governor Mitch Landrieu took place on May 20, resulting in reelection for Mayor Nagin.  The Mayor of New Orleans is the top official in New Orleans' mayor-council system of government.

Background
Elections in Louisiana, with the exception of presidential elections, follow a variation of the open primary system called the jungle primary. All candidates, including those running with a political party and independents, are listed on one ballot. Voters may vote for any candidate regardless of what party they are registered.

If no candidate wins a majority (50 percent plus one vote) in the first round, a second round (run-off) is then held between the top two candidates, who may be members of the same party. As this occurred, the runoff took place on May 20, 2006.

This election was previously scheduled to be held on 4 February 2006 (along with elections for other local offices, including City Council members) but was postponed due to the devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina (see: Effect of Hurricane Katrina on New Orleans), and the fact that large numbers of New Orleanians are displaced and still unable to return home.   Since this election would determine who would lead the city during its rebuilding process, the election was widely seen as one of the most important elections in the history of New Orleans and it was watched nationally to a degree uncommon for most mayoral races.

Candidates

In the primary campaign, incumbent mayor Ray Nagin faced a record 21 challengers for his position.  Many were political novices without significant financial backing.  In addition to Nagin, two candidates in particular were considered by political pundits to be "major candidates" because of their name recognition and financing—Ron Forman and Mitch Landrieu.  Others preferred not to distinguish between 'major' and 'minor' candidates, noting that, in the 2002 election, these same pundits considered Nagin a long-shot.  The top-financed candidate in that election, two-term city councilman Troy Carter, came in fifth.

Candidates in descending order of votes received
 Ray Nagin  Incumbent mayor Ray Nagin sought re-election.   Before Katrina, he was widely perceived as having a very high chance of re-election, but the new political climate left his level of support uncertain.   Nagin faced strong criticism of his handling of Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath.  Many middle- and upper-class white voters, who supported him in the 2002 election and were vital to his success in that contest, were alienated by his 'chocolate city' speech in January 2006, and very few white voters supported him this time.  The elements of the business community that were such an important part of his support base in 2002 mainly supported other candidates, while Nagin's business-oriented plans for reconstruction in New Orleans have alienated many voters.  Moreover, the city's black majority has been significantly reduced, and many in the city's black community were critical of Nagin even before the hurricane, citing amongst other issues the fact that he was known to have conservative politics and had supported Republican candidates in the past.  Nagin campaigned on his experience as mayor and in defense of his record, arguing that New Orleans needs experienced leadership in a crisis situation.   After being defeated in the primary, Rob Couhig, Virginia Boulet, and Tom Watson endorsed Nagin in the runoff.

 Mitch Landrieu  Louisiana Lieutenant Governor Mitch Landrieu, son of New Orleans's last white mayor Moon Landrieu and brother of Senator Mary Landrieu, announced his candidacy on February 21, after months of public speculation.  Landrieu ran for mayor once before, in the 1994 election, but finished third and was defeated by Marc Morial.  With the city's black majority much reduced after the hurricane, Landrieu was generally believed to have a stronger chance of victory this time around.  Given that he and his family have long been known as supporters of civil rights, he was seen as having a better chance of attracting a significant African American vote than some other white candidates.  While campaigning, Landrieu repeatedly criticized the rebuilding plan of Nagin's Bring New Orleans Back Commission, arguing that each neighborhood needs freedom to determine its own rebuilding process, and faulted Nagin for not doing more to pressure the federal government for information and funding.   Landrieu was endorsed by The Gambit, New Orleans CityBusiness, and The Louisiana Weekly newspapers.  After coming in third in the primary, Ron Forman endorsed Landrieu in the runoff.