[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 150]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

d
give us an unclouded sky and smooth waters by day, and that we might lie
down at night on a beaver blanket, enjoying uninterrupted sleep and
pleasant dreams; and that we might find continual protection under the
great pipe of peace. I have been thus particular (said the Highlander)
in describing the circumstances of this embassy, because you have not
disdained to hear the story of my adventures; and I thought that this
description of a people so totally unlike all you have been accustomed
to in Europe might not prove entirely uninteresting."

"We are much obliged to you," said Mr Barlow, "for all these curious
particulars, which are perfectly conformable to all I have heard and
read upon the subject. Nor can I consider, without a certain degree of
admiration, the savage grandeur of man in his most simple state. The
passion for revenge, which marks the character of all uncivilised
nations, is certainly to be condemned. But it is one of the constant
prejudices of their education; and many of those that call themselves
refined, have more to blush at in that respect than they are aware of.
Few, I am afraid, even in the most refined state of society, have
arrived at that sublime generosity which is able to forgive the injuries
of his fellow-creatures, when it has the power to repay them, and I see
many around me that are disgraced by the vices of uncivilised Americans,
without a claim to their virtues."

"I will not fatigue your ears," continued the Highlander, "with the
recital of all the events I was engaged in during the progress of the
war. The description of blood and carnage is always disagreeable to a
humane mind; and, though the perversity of mankind may sometimes render
war a necessary evil, the remembrance of its mischiefs is always
painful. I will only mention one event, continually lamented in the
annals of this country, because it is connected with the untimely fate
of my noble friend and gallant leader.

"It was determined by those who governed that we should march through
the woods upon a distant expedition against the French. The conduct of
this enterprise was given to a brave but rash commander, totally
unacquainted with the people he had to oppose, and unskilled in the
nature of a savage war. We therefore began our march through the same
trackless wilds I have described, and proceeded for several days without
any other difficulties than the nature of the country itself produced,
and without seeing the face of an enemy. It was in vain that officers of
the greatest experience, and particularly my worthy colonel, suggested
to our commander the necessity of using every precaution against a
dangerous and insidious foe.

"War is not managed, amid the forests of America, in the same manner as
it is conducted upon the plains of Europe. The temper of the people
there conspires with the nature of the country to render it a continual
scene of stratagems and surprise. Unencumbered with tents or baggage, or
numerous trains of artillery, the hostile warriors set out in small and
chosen parties, with nothing but their arms, and are continually upon
the watch to deceive their enemies. Long experience has taught them a
degree of sagacity in traversing the woods which to us is
inconceivable. Neither the widest rivers nor the most extensive forests
can retard them for an instant. A march of a thousand miles is scarcely
to them a greater difficulty than the passage of a European army between
two neighbouring towns. The woods themselves afford them a continual
supply of provisions in the various animals which they kill by the
chase. When they are near their enemies they frequently lurk all day in
thickets, for fear of a discovery, and pursue their march by night.
Hundreds of them sometimes pursue their course in the same line,
treading only in each other's steps, and the last of the party carefully
covers over the impressions which his fellows have made. When they are
thus upon the point of accomplishing their purpose the very necessities
of nature are unheeded; they cease to fire upon the beasts of the
forest, lest it should alarm the foe; they feed upon the roots or the
bark of trees, or pass successive days in a perfect abstinence from
food. All this our colonel represented to the general, and conjured him,
with the strongest entreaties, not to hazard the safety of our army by
an incautious progress. He advised him to send out numerous detachments
to beat the bushes and examine the woods; and offered himself to secure
the march of the army. But presumption is always blind; our general was
unacquainted with any other than European warfare, and could not
conceive that naked savages would dare to attack an army of two thousand
disciplined troops.

"One morning, the way before us appeared more intricate and obscure than
common; the forests did not, as usual, consist of lofty trees, which
afford a tolerably clear prospect between their tr