[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Shaw (British Army officer)

to open a second front at Lisbon, and Shaw and his men later joined this force.
On 29 September 1833 they rushed Óbidos, a town up the coast. By the following spring, Shaw commanded the whole British Brigade. In May 1834 he and the Scotch Fusiliers served under Napier in a bloodless siege of Ourém.

The Miguelite army capitulated soon afterwards, and Shaw marched the British Brigade to Lisbon on 1 June where he handed over command to a Portuguese officer. However, he remained in Portugal for another year, trying to get a financial settlement for his men – they were still awaiting full payment when Shaw published his memoirs in 1837. In 1835 he was awarded the knighthood of the Order of the Tower and Sword.

British Auxiliary Legion
In 1835 Shaw travelled to Glasgow with some of his veterans from Portugal to raise the 'Scotch Brigade' of the British Auxiliary Legion under General George de Lacy Evans for service in Spain during the First Carlist War. On landing in Spain, Shaw was angry to discover that he was only to rank as a colonel, and not as a brigadier-general, and that his Scotch Brigade was broken up. He commanded a smaller brigade in the relief of Bilbao, the march to Vitoria, and the action on the Heights of Arbalan (16–22 January 1836). Shaw was made governor of Vitoria and struggled to equip the hospitals during the typhus epidemic that broke out among the BAL's unfit, cold and hungry men. Shaw described ‘the hospitals choke full, four or five in a bed: discharging none except to their graves’.

In February 1836 Shaw was given command of the Irish Brigade – 'decidedly the best brigade in the Legion’, he wrote - and was finally promoted to the rank of Brigadier-General. He marched the brigade back to the coast in April, and embarked at Santander as part of the BAL's seaborne relief expedition to San Sebastian. He led the centre column during the fierce action of 5 May, when the BAL broke through three lines of Carlist besiegers, and even his enemies recognised the courage he showed. Shaw had been hit by a spent ball, and another had struck his watch. He was awarded the Spanish Order of San Fernando.

On 31 May 1836 Shaw and his brigade again took a leading part in defending the BAL's lines around the village of Alza against a fierce Carlist attack. On 11 July Shaw's brigade led a reconnaissance in force along the coast towards the French border, aiming to cut the Carlists off from the sea. While his battalions fought over a bridge, Shaw led a patrol right up to the walls of Fuenterrabia. He felt that he could have seized this last Carlist seaport by coup de main if he had been supported, but no reinforcements reached him, and the Legion withdrew. Shaw's letter to his brother describing this action was leaked to the Courier newspaper in London, which praised Shaw and denigrated the BAL's leadership. Evans accused Shaw of leaking the letter himself, with the result that Shaw resigned and returned to Britain.

Shaw was knighted by Queen Victoria in 1838.

Police career
In 1839, during Chartist unrest in North West England, Shaw was appointed by the Government as the first Chief Commissioner of Police in Manchester and Bolton. He endeavoured to create a neutral force that was independent both of the mill-owners (who dominated the municipal authorities) and of the trade unionists and Chartists. In 1841 he led the hunt for the 'Ashton Murderers'. During the Anti-Corn Law Riots and Plug Plot Riots in the summer of 1842, Shaw was forced to call on military assistance. At one point he personally led a charge by a troop of dragoons against a mob of rioters. Shaw had considerable sympathy for the Chartists and the poor of Manchester, and was removed from his post when the Manchester municipal authorities took over responsibility for the Borough Police on 1 October 1842.

Later life
Shaw married, in 1841, Louisa Hannah, only daughter of Major Martin Curry of the 67th Foot, and they had a son, Charles Martin Shaw. On 10 May 1844 he transferred from half-pay into the 73rd Foot in order to sell his commission and retire from the army. However, he continued to take an interest in military affairs, writing to British newspapers and politicians from the Continent, where he resided. His pet subjects included the Minie Rifle, soldiers' welfare, and coastal defence. 

His articles for the Caledonian Mercury during the invasion scare of 1859 make his points by describing a mythical attack on the port of Leith, somewhat in the style of Chesney's later The Battle of Dorking or Swinton's The Defence of Duffer's Drift. In these he advocated the used of 'rifle batteries' consisting of 12-20 rifle barrels that could be operated by one or two men, using the analogy of mechanical looms that did the work of many weavers. These 'rifle batteries' seem to prefigure the later Nordenfeldt gun.