[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Víctor Vázquez (footballer, born 1987)

est assist provider of the regular season (16) while also notching eight goals, as Toronto captured the Canadian Championship followed by the Supporters' Shield for most points in the league, after a 4–2 home win over New York Red Bulls on 30 September in which he scored from an injury time penalty.

In Toronto's last match of the regular season on 22 October 2017, a 2–2 away draw to Atlanta United FC, the former club broke the league's point record of 68 points, set by LA Galaxy in 1998, by one point. Eight days later, in the first leg of the Eastern Conference semi-finals in the play-offs, Vázquez scored the opening goal in a 2–1 away win over the New York Red Bulls. On 29 November, in the return leg of the Eastern final against Columbus Crew SC, at BMO Field, he missed a penalty in the 26th minute, but later set up the only goal of the match scored by Altidore, which saw his side emerge conference winners for the second consecutive year and earn a place in the MLS Cup Final. On 9 December, in the decisive match played at the same venue, he was involved in Altidore's opener and subsequently scored the final goal in a 2–0 win over the Seattle Sounders FC for an unprecedented domestic treble.

Vázquez's second season at the club was less successful however, as he struggled with injuries, collecting eight goals and nine assists in 21 MLS appearances and totalling matches 26 across all competitions. Although Toronto defended their Canadian Championship title, and even reached the final of the CONCACAF Champions League in 2018, with him starting in the second leg, they missed out on the playoffs for the first time in four years.

Qatar
On 15 January 2019, Vázquez signed with Al-Arabi SC of the Qatar Stars League. At the end of the season, he transferred to Umm Salal SC in the same competition.

Eupen
Vázquez returned to the Belgian top division in August 2020, joining K.A.S. Eupen on a two-year contract. Two months later, he asked to be released for personal reasons and left the club.

LA Galaxy
On 16 March 2021, Vázquez returned to MLS by signing with LA Galaxy, reuniting with former Toronto head coach Greg Vanney. He made his debut on 18 April against Inter Miami CF, and scored his first goal on 22 July in a 2–2 away draw with Real Salt Lake.

Return to Toronto
In November 2022, Toronto FC claimed the negotiation rights to Vázquez at the 2022 MLS Re-Entry Draft. The following month, he signed a one-year contract with an option for a further season to return to the club.

Style of play
A skilful and creative playmaker, Vázquez is noted for his vision, technique, passing and his composure in possession, which enables him to link-up with other players, distribute the ball quickly and create goalscoring opportunities for his teammates. A team player, he has also drawn praise for his intelligence, work-rate, stamina, awareness, selflessness, movement off the ball and positional sense on the pitch, as well as for being a key dressing room personality. Although he is primarily known for his ability to create goals he is capable of scoring them himself, and is also an accurate free kick and penalty taker. An experienced and versatile midfielder, he usually plays as an attacking midfielder behind the strikers, but is also capable of playing in the centre in a 3–5–2 formation, or on the left wing in a 4–4–2 formation.

Vázquez has also occasionally been used in a more advanced position, operating in a free, creative role, playing behind or off of another forward as a second striker.

Personal life
Vázquez is married to Andrea. Their son Leo (b. 2013) was named in honour of his childhood friend and former Barcelona teammate Messi.

Vázquez had the words "solo el mas fuerte sobrevive" (only the strongest survives) tattooed on his arm as he recovered from his second knee surgery. He also had several other tattoos which reference his wife, son, grandmother and sister, including the text "Life is meaningless without you, forever yours" on his back, dedicated to his wife.

Career statistics

Honours
Barcelona
UEFA Champions League: 2008–09, 2010–11

Club Brugge
Belgian Pro League: 2015–16
Belgian Cup: 2014–15

Toronto FC
MLS Cup: 2017
Canadian Championship: 2017, 2018
Supporters' Shield: 2017
Trillium Cup: 2017
Eastern Conference Championship (Playoffs): 2017

Individual
Belgian Footballer of the Year: 2014–15
MLS Best XI: 2017
Red Patch Boys Player of the Year: 2017

References

External links