[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rafael Celestino Benítez

Rear Admiral Rafael Celestino Benítez (March 9, 1917 – March 6, 1999) was a highly decorated American submarine commander who led the rescue effort of the crew members of the  during the Cold War.  After retiring from the navy, he was Pan American World Airways' vice president for Latin America.  He taught international law for 16 years at the University of Miami School of Law, and served as associate dean, interim dean and director and founder of the foreign graduate law program. While there, he founded the comparative law LL.M. program, the inter-American law LL.M. program, and the Inter-American Law Review. After his death, the university established a scholarship in his memory to benefit a foreign attorney who is enrolled in one of the Law School's LL.M. programs.

Early years

Benítez was born in Juncos, Puerto Rico, where he received his primary and secondary education. After he finished high school, he was accepted in the United States Naval Academy by appointment of the Honorable Santiago Iglesias, Puerto Rico's Resident Commissioner.  He graduated from the academy in 1939 and was assigned to submarine duty.

World War II
During World War II, Benítez saw action aboard the submarines USS Dace (SS-247) and USS Grenadier (SS-210) and on various occasions weathered depth charge attacks. For his actions, he was awarded the Silver Star twice and the Bronze Star Medal.

He served as commanding officer (with the rank of lieutenant commander) of the submarine USS Halibut (SS-232) from February 15, 1945, to May 19, 1945. The Halibut was the first ship of the United States Navy to be named for the halibut, a large species of flatfish. She was launched on December 3, 1941, and commissioned on  April 10, 1942.   The Halibut had an impressive war record, which included sinking 12 Japanese ships, but was damaged beyond reasonable repair on her tenth and final war patrol, which ended on December 1, 1944.  Benítez's only mission as commander of the Halibut was to bring her from San Francisco to Portsmouth, New Hampshire, where she was decommissioned on July 18, 1945.

Post war
On January 29, 1946, Lieutenant Commander Benítez was given command of the . Benítez, inspired by his father who was a judge, attended Georgetown Law School and earned his law degree in June 1949.

Cochino incident
During the latter part of 1949, early in the Cold War Era, Benítez was given the command of the submarine USS Cochino. On August 12, 1949, the Cochino, along with the USS Tusk, departed from the harbor of Portsmouth, England. Both diesel submarines were reported to be on a cold-water training mission.  However, according to Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage, the submarines – equipped with snorkels that allowed them to spend long periods underwater, largely invisible to an enemy, and with electronic gear designed to detect far-off radio signals – were part of an American intelligence operation.

The mission of the Cochino and Tusk was to eavesdrop on communications that revealed the testing of submarine-launched Soviet missiles that might soon carry nuclear warheads.  This was the first American undersea spy mission of the cold war.

On August 25, one of the Cochino'''s 4,000-pound batteries caught fire, emitting hydrogen gas and smoke. Unable to receive any help from the Tusk, Commander Benítez directed the firefighting. He ordered the Cochino to surface and had dozens of crew members lash themselves to the deck rails with ropes while others fought the blaze. Benítez tried to save his ship and at the same time save his men from the toxic gases. He realized that the winds were about to tear the ropes and ordered his men to form a pyramid on the ship's open bridge, which was designed to hold seven men.

The Cochino suffered two casualties, Lt. Cmdr. Richard M. Wright, who survived despite the fact that he was severely burned, and Robert Philo, a civilian sonar expert, who attempted to reach the Tusk on a raft to report on the conditions of the Cochino, but was knocked overboard along with 11 of the Tusks crew members. As a result, Philo and six of the Tusks crew perished.

The ocean waters became calmer during the night and the Tusk was able to approach the Cochino.  All of the crew, with the exception of Commander Benítez, boarded the Tusk.  Finally, the crew members of the Tusk convinced Benítez to board the Tusk, which he did two minutes before the Cochino sank off the coast of Norway.

Aftermath of the Cochino incident
According to the New York Times of April 5, 1997,  "On September 20, 1949, the Soviet publication Red Fleet said the Cochino had been "not far from Murmansk" and suggested that it had been seeking military information. On September 23, President Harry S. Truman, confirming fears that had led to Commander Benitez's mission, announced that the Soviet Union had detonated its first nuclear device".