[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Security Battalions

The Security Battalions (, derisively known as Germanotsoliades (Γερμανοτσολιάδες) or Tagmatasfalites (Ταγματασφαλίτες)) were Greek collaborationist military groups, formed during the Axis occupation of Greece during World War II in order to support the German occupation troops.

History 

The Battalions were founded in 1943 by the government of Ioannis Rallis. The Rallis cabinet passed the law raising the Security Battalions on 7 April 1943. The driving force behind raising the Security Battalions was the former dictator, General Theodoros Pangalos, who saw the Security Battalions as his means of making a political comeback, and most of the Hellenic Army officers recruited into the Security Battalions in April 1943 were republicans who were in some way associated with Pangalos. 

The National Schism between royalists and republicans was still going strong in the 1940s, with considerable tensions between royalist politicians such as Rallis and republicans like Pangalos. Pangalos, a Greek nationalist, resented Greece's semi-colonial relationship to the United Kingdom before the Second World War, and he presented the return of the monarchy as a return to subordination to Britain.  However, both Rallis and Pangalos were men of the right and strongly opposed the National Liberation Front (EAM), which gave them some common ground.  Pangalos and the clique of republican officers associated with him made it clear that the Security Battalions were meant to fight just as much the return of King George II as they were EAM, and initially, royalist officers were reluctant to join. Both the Italians and the Germans distrusted the Security Battalions and provided them with only small arms, fearing that Pangalos, a tough, able soldier and a megalomaniac who was widely considered to be "half mad", was not a reliable partner. Though Pangalos did not formally have a position in the Security Battalions, he ensured his followers were given key command positions.

They were supported by extreme right and Nazi sympathisers, but also by some centrist politicians who were concerned about the dominance of ELAS (the military arm of the communist-dominated National Liberation Front EAM) as the main body of the Greek resistance. Members of the Security Battalions included ex-army officers, forcefully conscripted soldiers, conservatives, landowners, extreme-right radicals and social outcasts, as well as opportunists who believed that the Axis would win the war. The core of the Battalions consisted of men of the Royal Guard (Evzones, so the name tsoliádes).

The Security Battalions were initially only a small force, and only began to grow after Italy signed an armistice with the Allies in September 1943. After the armistice, German forces seized the parts of Greece that been occupied by the Italians. In the confusion caused by the armistice, ELAS took the opportunity to take over many of the Italian armories in Greece, and used the resulting vast haul of Italian weapons against the Germans. With ELAS better armed and the Germans now occupying more of Greece, the Higher SS Police Chief of Greece, Walter Schimana, argued that the Reich needed an auxiliary force to relieve the burden. After the armistice of September 1943, the Germans became more generous in arming the Security Battalions. The growth in ELAS, which was now far better armed than it was before the armistice, alarmed many conservative Greek officers, including the royalists, who joined the Security Battalions as a way of defending the "bourgeois world". Despite their distaste for republicans like Pangalos, for many royalist officers the defense of the prewar status quo against EAM came to override even the National Schism. One provincial governor, that of the Patras district, told an audience of Wehrmacht officers in February 1944:  

The governor announced that he was now recruiting for the Security Battalions in his district, saying he'd prefer that Greece be permanently occupied by Germany than that the EAM come to power. The German military governor of the Balkans, General Alexander Löhr, in a message to Berlin stated that his policy was to ensure "that the anti-communist part of the Greek population be fully utilised, revealing itself openly and obliged to display an undisguised hostility towards the communist side".