[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephen A. Corker

erine following a disagreement  about a ruling Corker made related to a bit of property. None of the wounds were serious. Corker returned to work a few days later. In the 1870s he was vice-president of the Third Georgia, an organization for veterans from Corker's Confederate Regiment during the war.

In October 1876 he was elected as one of three congressmen for Burke County in the Georgia General Assembly. He served on the Committees on  Education during his tenure in office. He was elected to the same position again in November 1877. On September 5 he was nominated by members of the Greenback Party for United States Congress. Days later he resigned from his position in the General Assembly. Newspapers from the time period doubted that he would be elected to congress. He accepted the nomination of the Greenback Party for Representative of Georgia's 1st Congressional district in earl October 1878.  The denunciation by Greenback Party of the Democratic Party drew criticism. Corker responded to those questions by claiming one could be an Independent Democrat and also run on the Greenback Party ticket. Critics believed that Corker was trying to get elected to Congress again any way that he could. Rumors claimed that Corker had stayed in Savannah, Georgia during the war and had not fought. These rumors were denounced by his friends and newspapers, but during the campaign he was continuously accused of having abandoned Democracy and allying himself with its opponents. Democrats argued that "If it is Captain Corker this year it will be a negro next time." In an attempt to defeat the Democratic candidate John C. Nicholls, Corker reportedly courted the votes of Republicans, Radicals, and the African American community. Corker lost the election to John C. Nicholls  by 3,600 votes.

After losing the election, his health began to decline. On Saturday October 18, 1879 he was talking to clients at his office in Waynesboro when he suddenly slumped down and was paralysed on his left side. He died at four o'clock that afternoon at forty-nine years old. He was a Freemason, a member of the Royal Arcanum, and a member of the Knights of Honor. He was interred in the Confederate Cemetery at Waynesboro. His wife and all three of his sons survived him.

His great-great-grandson is former U.S. Senator from Tennessee Bob Corker.

References

External links
 
 Stephen Alfestus and Margaret Palmer Corker papers Finding Aid at Hargrett Rare Book and Manuscript Library

1830 births
1879 deaths
American Civil War prisoners of war held by the United States
Confederate States Army officers
People from Waynesboro, Georgia
Georgia (U.S. state) Greenbacks
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Georgia (U.S. state)
19th-century American politicians
Members of the United States House of Representatives who owned slaves