[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ahmed Haroun

7, the Sudanese government announced that Haroun would lead an investigation into human rights abuses in Darfur. It also appointed Haroun to be a member of its committee overseeing the United Nations African Union Mission in Darfur (UNAMID), thus influencing the deployment of peacekeepers in Darfur.

As a result of the escalating crisis in the state of Abyei in the first week of 2011, the UN decided to fly Haroun to the province. He was seen as the only suitable mediator at the time. The ICC is not a part of the UN, but the UN promised to cooperate with the ICC, and the action chosen by the UN – although pragmatic – proved controversial.

Governor of South and North Kordofan
In June 2011, Haroun defeated Abdelaziz al-Hilu of the SPLA to become the governor of South Kordofan in an election rejected by the SPLA as rigged.

On 12 July 2013 Haroun, along with the Governor of North Kordofan, resigned. In a presidential decree Omar al-Bashir reappointed Haroun as Governor of North Kordofan until 23 February 2019.

2019 arrest
In April 2019, Haroun was arrested by local authorities in Sudan following the 2019 Sudanese coup d'état, which overthrew Omar al-Bashir. On 5 May 2020, he tested positive for COVID-19 and was subsequently placed in quarantine. He escaped custody during the chaos of the 2023 Sudan conflict, and voiced support for the Sudanese Armed Forces.

See also
Darfur conflict
International criminal law
Cases before the International Criminal Court#Darfur, Sudan

References

1964 births
Living people
Sudanese Muslims
People of the War in Darfur
Fugitives wanted by the International Criminal Court
Fugitives wanted on crimes against humanity charges
Fugitives wanted on war crimes charges
Government ministers of Sudan
Interior ministers of Sudan
People from South Kordofan
People from North Kurdufan
Date of birth missing (living people)
Heads of government who were later imprisoned
Recipients of the Order of the Righteous Son of Sudan