[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lenny Randle

Leonard Shenoff Randle (born February 12, 1949) is an American former Major League Baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Washington Senators/Texas Rangers franchise, New York Mets,New York Yankees, Chicago Cubs and Seattle Mariners.

Early years
Born in Long Beach, California, Randle was captain of both the baseball and football teams at Centennial High School in Compton, California. He was drafted by the St. Louis Cardinals in the 10th round (190th overall) 1967 Major League Baseball draft, but chose instead to attend Arizona State University. Along with playing football and second base for the  NCAA championship Arizona State Sun Devils baseball team, Randle graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree.

Professional career

Washington Senators and Texas Rangers 
Randle was the first round pick (10th overall) of the Washington Senators in the secondary phase of the June 1970 Major League Baseball draft. After a little more than one season in the minors, Randle debuted as a second baseman with the Washington Senators in . He made his major league debut on June 16, going 1-for-4 in a 5–1 loss to the Oakland Athletics. He split time between the minors and with the newly renamed and relocated Texas Rangers his first three seasons, spending most of  in Triple-A with the Spokane Indians.

Randle had a breakthrough  season, batting .302 with a home run, 49 RBI, 26 stolen bases and 65 runs scored in 151 games while splitting time at second base, third base and in the outfield. He split time in all three positions in  as well before being returned to second base in .

1977 punching incident 
During spring training in 1977, first round draft choice Bump Wills earned the starting second base job over Randle. On March 28, the Rangers were in Orlando for an exhibition game with the Minnesota Twins. During batting practice an hour before the first pitch, Randle approached Rangers manager Frank Lucchesi. Randle claimed that Lucchesi called him a "punk", which Lucchesi denies. Randle punched Lucchesi in the face three times before the altercation was stopped by bystanders.

Lucchesi was hospitalized for a week, needing plastic surgery to repair his fractured cheekbone which Randle had broken in three places. He also received bruises to his kidney and back. The Rangers suspended Randle for 30 days without pay and fined him $10,000. On April 26, before the suspension was complete, Texas traded him to the New York Mets for cash and a player to be named later; Texas later received Rick Auerbach.

Randle was charged with assault, and pleaded no contest to battery charges in a Florida court, receiving a $1,050 fine. The Rangers fired Lucchesi on June 21. Lucchesi sued Randle for $200,000. They settled for $20,000.

New York Mets 
Randle began his tenure with the Mets playing second base. With opening day third baseman Roy Staiger batting only .236 with one home run and eight runs batted in, Randle was shifted to third base by Joe Torre when he replaced Joe Frazier as manager of the team.

Randle ended an extra innings marathon with the Montreal Expos on July 9 at Shea Stadium in the seventeenth inning with a walk off home run off Will McEnaney. Four days later, he was at bat for the Mets when the power went out at Shea Stadium during the New York City blackout of 1977. He commented, "I thought, 'God, I'm gone.' I thought for sure He was calling me. I thought it was my last at‐bat."

For the season, Randle batted .304 with five home runs, 27 RBI, a career-high 33 stolen bases and 78 runs scored in 136 games for the last place Mets. His stats fell off considerably in , when he batted .233 with two home runs, 35 RBI, 14 stolen bases and 53 runs in 132 games. The Mets released Randle during spring training in 1979.

San Francisco Giants, Pittsburgh Pirates and New York Yankees 
After his release from the Mets, Randle signed with the San Francisco Giants on May 12, 1979, and was assigned to their Triple-A Pacific Coast League affiliate in Phoenix. He was traded along with Bill Madlock and Dave Roberts from the Giants to the Pittsburgh Pirates for Al Holland, Ed Whitson and Fred Breining on June 28, but again was assigned to their Triple-A affiliate. After 24 games with the Portland Beavers, he saw his first major league experience of the season when his contract was purchased by the New York Yankees on August 3. He batted .179 with 3 RBI in 20 games as an outfielder with the Yankees.

Seattle Mariners and Chicago Cubs 

On February 21, 1980, Randle signed with the Seattle Mariners as a non-roster invitee. By the end of spring training, he was dealt to the Chicago Cubs. He batted .276 and with five home runs, 39 RBI and 19 stolen bases as the Cubs' regular third baseman. On February 18, 1981, Randle returned to the Mariners as a free agent. In two seasons with the Mariners, he batted .223 with four home runs and 26 RBI backing up second and third base.