[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of Saint Seiya characters

y (voiced by Michitaka Kobayashi and played by Yūki Matsuoka); Scutum Jan (voiced by Keiichi Nanba and played by Takeshi Hayashino); Lyra Orpheus, predecessor of Lyra Orphée (voiced by Yūji Mitsuya and played by Yasuka Saitoh); and Orion Jäger (voiced by Yū Mizushima and played by Yutaka Matsuzaki).

Kurumada contributed to designing the looks of the God Warriors of Odin in 1988's Saint Seiya: The Heated Battle of the Gods, but had virtually no involvement in the creation of Abel and his three Corona Saints in 1988's Saint Seiya: Legend of Crimson Youth or of Lucifer and the Fallen Angels in Saint Seiya: Warriors of the Final Holy Battle. On the other hand, the 2004 film Saint Seiya Heaven Chapter: Overture was based on an original story by Kurumada. Since the discontinuation of the project, however, the characters and events of that film have since been replaced in the canonical continuity of the series by those found in Next Dimension.

Anime-only characters
The anime adaptation of Saint Seiya features several original characters. Author Masami Kurumada was not involved in their creation process. Although these characters had a participation in the storyline to some extent, some were later retconned from the continuity of the anime itself to keep it closer to the manga. They range from support to antagonistic characters.

This article comprises a list of characters that do not exist in Masami Kurumada's Saint Seiya manga and are found only in its anime adaptation, therefore they remain out of the canon of the fictional universe. Saint Seiya author Kurumada was not involved in their creation process, design or conceptualization and although these characters had a participation in the storyline to some extent, they have now been retconned from the continuity of the anime adaptation to keep it closer to Kurumada's manga. They range from support secondary characters to various ally or antagonistic factions.

Steel Saints

The Steel Saints'  armors were created by Dr. Asamori, who was supported at the beginning by Mitsumasa Kido. Unlike the other Saints, the Steel Saints' powers come from their robotic armors and not from their Cosmo. As they are non-existent in Kurumada's manga, they were added to the Silver Saint arc, before the Bronze Saints travel to the Sanctuary in Greece.  dons the , which is able to generate earthquakes.  dons the  which is able to produce sound waves.  possesses the , which has the power of "sky waves", the ability to absorb an enemy's technique blasts and attacks from the air.

Ghost Saints

The Caribbean Saints or Ghost Saints are a group of rogue bounty hunters hailing from the Island of Hell. They were known as ,  and , and were led by Shaina's protegee, . They were sent by the Pope to retrieve the Gold Cloth, and none of them succeeded nor survived. Although they are also known collectively by the alternate name of Ghost Saints, they are not to be confused with the quintet of the same name appearing in the first Saint Seiya theatrical release.

Black Saints

A trio of Black Saints in Death Queen Island, subordinated to Jango, who tried to prevent Ikki from taking the Phoenix Cloth. Their design is inspired by Black Saints drawn by Masami Kurumada in the backgrounds of vol. 5 of his manga, as well as the event they take part in.

The equivalent to Phoenix Ikki among the Black Saints. Unlike Ikki's four shadows, who were of a seemingly incorporeal nature, the Black Phoenix Saint was flesh and blood, an underling of Django, who, along him and the Black Three tried to kill Phoenix Ikki during his brief return to Death Queen Island, after the defeat of Perseus Algol, Kerberos Dante and Auriga Capella. Black Phoenix fell before Ikki, along his comrades, who suffered the same fate.

The previous Pope

The , the legitimate and benevolent Pope, who awarded Seiya the Pegasus Cloth. He was killed by Gemini Saga to usurp his authority, who hid his corpse in Star Hill, where it remained for over 10 years. Said to be the younger brother of the Pope before him, Aries Shion. Although the events he takes part in are taken directly from Kurumada's manga, this character can't be reconciled with an equivalent in it due to plentiful conflicting storyline aspects, as in Kurumada's work, the Pope killed by Saga was Aries Shion, and the Pope Seiya knew was Saga himself. As with all the anime-only characters, he was retconned from the anime continuity with the adaptation of the Hades arc from Kurumada's manga.

Pope Arles' Minions

The identity given to Gemini Saga in the guise of the false Pope of Sanctuary in the anime adaptation. In Kurumada's manga, Saga as the false Pope goes unidentified by name. Arles was the moving force behind the corruption of Athena's Sanctuary. According to screenwriter of Saint Seiya anime, Takao Koyama, in an interview, Arles name comes from the Greek philosopher Aristotle (Greek: Aristotélēs, Japanese: アリストテレス Arisutoteresu).