[Source: PubMed]

74. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2017 Sep 11;9(9):CD011084. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD011084.pub2.

Financial arrangements for health systems in low-income countries: an overview 
of systematic reviews.

Wiysonge CS(1), Paulsen E, Lewin S, Ciapponi A, Herrera CA, Opiyo N, Pantoja T, 
Rada G, Oxman AD.

Author information:
(1)Cochrane South Africa, South African Medical Research Council, Francie van 
Zijl Drive, Parow Valley, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa, 7505.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011084.

BACKGROUND: One target of the Sustainable Development Goals is to achieve 
"universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to 
quality essential health-care services and access to safe, effective, quality 
and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all". A fundamental concern 
of governments in striving for this goal is how to finance such a health system. 
This concern is very relevant for low-income countries.
OBJECTIVES: To provide an overview of the evidence from up-to-date systematic 
reviews about the effects of financial arrangements for health systems in 
low-income countries. Secondary objectives include identifying needs and 
priorities for future evaluations and systematic reviews on financial 
arrangements, and informing refinements in the framework for financial 
arrangements presented in the overview.
METHODS: We searched Health Systems Evidence in November 2010 and PDQ-Evidence 
up to 17 December 2016 for systematic reviews. We did not apply any date, 
language, or publication status limitations in the searches. We included 
well-conducted systematic reviews of studies that assessed the effects of 
financial arrangements on patient outcomes (health and health behaviours), the 
quality or utilisation of healthcare services, resource use, healthcare provider 
outcomes (such as sick leave), or social outcomes (such as poverty, employment, 
or financial burden of patients, e.g. out-of-pocket payment, catastrophic 
disease expenditure) and that were published after April 2005. We excluded 
reviews with limitations important enough to compromise the reliability of the 
findings. Two overview authors independently screened reviews, extracted data, 
and assessed the certainty of evidence using GRADE. We prepared SUPPORT 
Summaries for eligible reviews, including key messages, 'Summary of findings' 
tables (using GRADE to assess the certainty of the evidence), and assessments of 
the relevance of findings to low-income countries.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified 7272 reviews and included 15 in this overview, on: 
collection of funds (2 reviews), insurance schemes (1 review), purchasing of 
services (1 review), recipient incentives (6 reviews), and provider incentives 
(5 reviews). The reviews were published between 2008 and 2015; focused on 13 
subcategories; and reported results from 276 studies: 115 (42%) randomised 
trials, 11 (4%) non-randomised trials, 23 (8%) controlled before-after studies, 
51 (19%) interrupted time series, 9 (3%) repeated measures, and 67 (24%) other 
non-randomised studies. Forty-three per cent (119/276) of the studies included 
in the reviews took place in low- and middle-income countries. Collection of 
funds: the effects of changes in user fees on utilisation and equity are 
uncertain (very low-certainty evidence). It is also uncertain whether aid 
delivered under the Paris Principles (ownership, alignment, harmonisation, 
managing for results, and mutual accountability) improves health outcomes 
compared to aid delivered without conforming to those principles (very 
low-certainty evidence). Insurance schemes: community-based health insurance may 
increase service utilisation (low-certainty evidence), but the effects on health 
outcomes are uncertain (very low-certainty evidence). It is uncertain whether 
social health insurance improves utilisation of health services or health 
outcomes (very low-certainty evidence). Purchasing of services: it is uncertain 
whether increasing salaries of public sector healthcare workers improves the 
quantity or quality of their work (very low-certainty evidence). Recipient 
incentives: recipient incentives may improve adherence to long-term treatments 
(low-certainty evidence), but it is uncertain whether they improve patient 
outcomes. One-time recipient incentives probably improve patient return for 
start or continuation of treatment (moderate-certainty evidence) and may improve 
return for tuberculosis test readings (low-certainty evidence). However, 
incentives may not improve completion of tuberculosis prophylaxis, and it is 
uncertain whether they improve completion of treatment for active tuberculosis. 
Conditional cash transfer programmes probably lead to an increase in service 
utilisation (moderate-certainty evidence), but their effects on health outcomes 
are uncertain. Vouchers may improve health service utilisation (low-certainty 
evidence), but the effects on health outcomes are uncertain (very low-certainty 
evidence). Introducing a restrictive cap may decrease use of medicines for 
symptomatic conditions and overall use of medicines, may decrease insurers' 
expenditures on medicines (low-certainty evidence), and has uncertain effects on 
emergency department use, hospitalisations, and use of outpatient care (very 
low-certainty evidence). Reference pricing, maximum pricing, and index pricing 
for drugs have mixed effects on drug expenditures by patients and insurers as 
well as the use of brand and generic drugs. Provider incentives: the effects of 
provider incentives are uncertain (very low-certainty evidence), including: the 
effects of provider incentives on the quality of care provided by primary care 
physicians or outpatient referrals from primary to secondary care, incentives 
for recruiting and retaining health professionals to serve in remote areas, and 
the effects of pay-for-performance on provider performance, the utilisation of 
services, patient outcomes, or resource use in low-income countries.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Research based on sound systematic review methods has 
evaluated numerous financial arrangements relevant to low-income countries, 
targeting different levels of the health systems and assessing diverse outcomes. 
However, included reviews rarely reported social outcomes, resource use, equity 
impacts, or undesirable effects. We also identified gaps in primary research 
because of uncertainty about applicability of the evidence to low-income 
countries. Financial arrangements for which the effects are uncertain include 
external funding (aid), caps and co-payments, pay-for-performance, and provider 
incentives. Further studies evaluating the effects of these arrangements are 
needed in low-income countries. Systematic reviews should include all outcomes 
that are relevant to decision-makers and to people affected by changes in 
financial arrangements.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011084.pub2
PMCID: PMC5618470
PMID: 28891235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Elizabeth Paulsen, Simon Lewin, Cristian A 
Herrera, Newton Opiyo, Tomas Pantoja, Gabriel Rada, and Andrew D Oxman are 
editors of the Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care (EPOC) 
Group. Charles S Wiysonge, Agustín Ciapponi, and Andrew D Oxman are authors of 
some of the included reviews.