[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Alice Dunbar Nelson

1900s. In the third and final stanza, the speaker further amplifies desire and passion by saying both the living and dead call for my help. The speaker ends by asking God, "must I sit and sew?" In doing so, the speaker appeals to heavenly intervention to further amplify the message within the poem.

Works
  Violets and Other Tales , Boston: Monthly Review, 1895. Short stories and poems, including "Titée", "A Carnival Jangle", and "Little Miss Sophie". Digital Schomburg. ("The Woman" reprinted in Margaret Busby (ed.), Daughters of Africa, 1992, pp. 161–163.)
 The Goodness of St. Rocque and Other Stories  , 1899, including "Titée" (revised), "Little Miss Sophie", and "A Carnival Jangle".
 "Wordsworth's Use of Milton's Description of the Building of Pandemonium", 1909, in Modern Language Notes.
 (As editor) Masterpieces of Negro Eloquence: The Best Speeches Delivered by the Negro from the days of Slavery to the Present Time, 1914.
 "People of Color in Louisiana", 1917, in Journal of Negro History.
 Mine Eyes Have Seen, 1918, one-act play, in The Crisis, journal of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP).
 (As editor) The Dunbar Speaker and Entertainer: Containing the Best Prose and Poetic Selections by and About the Negro Race, with Programs Arranged for Special Entertainments, 1920.
 "The Colored United States", 1924, The Messenger, literary and political magazine in NY
 "From a Woman's Point of View" ("Une Femme Dit"), 1926, column for the Pittsburgh Courier.
 "I Sit and I Sew", "Snow in October", and "Sonnet", in Countee Cullen (ed.), Caroling Dusk: An Anthology of Verse by Negro Poets, 1927.
 "As in a Looking Glass", 1926–1930, column for the Washington Eagle newspaper.
 "So It Seems to Alice Dunbar-Nelson", 1930, column for the Pittsburgh Courier.
 Various poems published in the NAACP's journal The Crisis, in Ebony and Topaz: A Collectanea (edited by Charles S. Johnson), and in Opportunity, the journal of the Urban League.
 Give Us Each Day: The Diary of Alice Dunbar-Nelson'', ed. Gloria T. Hull, New York: Norton, 1984.
"Writing, Citizenship, Alice Dunbar-Nelson". Zagarell, Sandra A. Legacy, Vol. 36, Iss. 2, (2019): 241–244.

References

External links

 
 
 
 Alice Dunbar-Nelson papers at Special Collections, University of Delaware Library
 About Alice Dunbar-Nelson, Department of English, College of LAS, University of Illinois, 1988
 Women of Color Women of Words biography Rutgers University
"I Am an American! The Activism and Authorship of Alice Dunbar-Nelson" (online exhibition) at The Rosenbach

1875 births
1935 deaths
19th-century African-American women writers
19th-century American writers
19th-century African-American writers
19th-century American journalists
19th-century American women journalists
19th-century American poets
19th-century American women writers
20th-century African-American writers
20th-century African-American women writers
20th-century American journalists
20th-century American women journalists
20th-century American poets
20th-century American women writers
Activists from Delaware
African-American journalists
African-American poets
African-American short story writers
African-American suffragists
African-American women journalists
American anti-lynching activists
American civil rights activists
American LGBT writers
Suffragists from Pennsylvania
American women poets
Burials at Wilmington and Brandywine Cemetery
Cornell University alumni
Delta Sigma Theta members
Editors of Delaware newspapers
Harlem Renaissance
African-American LGBT people
LGBT people from Louisiana
LGBT women
Straight University alumni
Women anthologists
Writers from New Orleans
Writers from Philadelphia
Suffragists from Delaware