[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Heshui Campaign

Heshui Campaign (), consisted of several fierce battles fought between the communists and the nationalist Ma clique's force, which consisted mostly of cavalry. The campaign was fought in the post-World War II era in the eastern Gansu province in northwestern China during the Chinese Civil War, and it was one of the few conflicts from which the nationalists emerged as the victor.

Prelude
After Panlong Campaign, the communist force under the command of Peng Dehuai in northwest China had scored three consecutive victories against its nationalist adversary, and had forced the nationalists in northwestern China to cease further offensives.  Both sides took rest and the communists held a celebration at Ansai () region during this break.  Zhou Enlai personally went to join the celebration on Mao Zedong's behalf and suggested that Peng's force should take the opportunity to take a much-needed break while the nationalists were resting, but Peng Dehuai disagreed because Ansai region was a very poor region lacked any resources and thus could not support his large army numbered over twenty thousands.  Instead, Peng Dehuai suggested that his force should strike toward eastern Gansu while the local nationalist force under the command Hu Zongnan was resting, so that the communists could replenish themselves in the newly conquered area in eastern Gansu.  When Peng's suggestion was finally telegraphed to Mao Zedong on May 14, 1947, Mao replied in the same day and agreed.  Peng Dehuai also hoped that taking eastern Gansu would force the Ma clique to redeploy its forces and thus provide an opportunity for another communist victory, as he and Xi Zhongxun had told Mao in their telegraph on May 28.  Little did the communists know how wrong they were.

On May 21, 1947, the communists started their push toward eastern Gansu in three fronts from Ansai region under the personal command of Peng Dehuai: the communist 1st Column was at the right, and the Newly Organized 4th Brigade was at the central, while the 2nd Column under the command of Wang Zhen was at the left.  The town of Heshui () in the nationalist hands was selected as the primary target due to the following reasons:  the region was originally an area of active communist guerrilla activities before World War II and at the end of Long March, it was the place where Mao Zedong's force met with local Chinese Red Army commanded by Xie Zichang () and Liu Zhidan ().  During World War II, the region was granted by the nationalist government of Chiang Kai-shek to the communists as their area of control, so that the communists were legally allowed to station its 358th Brigade of the Eighth Route Army under the command of Wang Hongqian () in the region and turn it into a communist base.  The communist 358th Brigade headquartered at Qingyang () while the communist 770th Regiment under the command of Zhang Caiqian () was stationed at Heshui It was only after World War II were the nationalists finally able to retake the region from the communists and the communists had hoped that they would be able to take the region again from the nationalists.