[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# History of Leeds

Armley, Bramley and Kirkstall became milling centres and areas such as Roundhay became middle class suburbs, the building of the Leeds Tramway allowing them better connections with the rest of the city.

Wartime

First World War
Leeds made a notable contribution during the First World War.

Barnbow

Barnbow in Cross Gates was a large ammunitions factory producing ten thousand shells per week by August 1915.  The worst tragedy ever to happen within Leeds (in terms of fatalities) happened at the Barnbow tragedy of 5 December 1916.  35 workers (all women aged 14 or over) were killed in the Barnbow Munitions Factory, which later became the Royal Ordnance Factory Barnbow.  The plant employed 16,000 workers, from Leeds, Selby, Wakefield, Tadcaster and Wetherby and had its own railway station to cope with the daily influx of workers.  The railway station had an  platform and 38 special trains from surrounding towns and cities.  An explosion from Hall 42 killed 35 workers and mutilated many more.  Mechanic Mr William Parking was presented with an engraved silver watch for his bravery in saving factory workers during the incident.

Leeds Pals

During the First World War, regiments were made up of men from particular towns, meaning that if one regiment suffered heavy losses, a town or city would suffer heavy losses of its male population.  Leeds was one city unfortunate enough to suffer this.  By the Second World War, regiments weren't so geographically based.  The battalion formed in 1914 and suffered its worse losses in the Battle of the Somme in 1916.

Inter-war 
During the period between the two world wars, the Leeds Women Citizens League was active in advocating what women's needs for housing were to the national Women's Housing Sub-Committee. This was a parliamentary committee which was established in 1918 by the Ministry of Reconstruction in order discover what a woman's view on post-war housing would look life. Recommendations for the Leeds branch of the league included 'porcelain sinks with plugs' that children could be washed in, as well as 'an upstairs'.

Second World War
During the Second World War Leeds made a further contribution to the war effort, although it was  perhaps less historically notable than that of the first. Although the result of the sinking of the third Royal naval vessel named 'Ark Royal' which was Leeds's adopted ship the people of Leeds raised over £9 million in 1942 for a new ship, surpassing the £5 million target.

Bombing

Leeds escaped the worst of The Blitz, due mainly to its inland location and lack of any significant industrial targets.  On the night of the 14 March and early hours of 15 March 1941, Leeds received its worst night of Luftwaffe bombing.  Beeston had more bombs dropped on it than any other district of the city, yet escaped with the least damage.  Flaxton Terrace was the only street to be damaged during the night-time blackout air raid, with nearly all the other bombs landing on Cross Flatts Park.  In his 2005 poem 'Shrapnel' poet Tony Harrison, who was in Beeston on the night of the raid, speculates whether this was an act of heroism by the Luftwaffe pilot, a theory that has been explored ever since the raid.  Significant damage was also caused in Holbeck and Headingley, while the Eastern side of the Town Hall was damaged. Bombs were also dropped on the Woodhouse area during nighttime air raids, as the Luftwaffe attempted to destroy an industrial target.

Thorp Arch

ROF Thorp Arch was the main munitions factory in the area at this time. The facility which is now a trading estate and retail park, was situated near Wetherby and like Barnbow featured significant railway facilities.  The works suffered minor damage from bombing raids.  People from all over West Yorkshire travelled to work at the facility by train from Leeds and Wetherby stations.

Yeadon
The town of Yeadon housed the underground factory that manufactured the parts for Avro Lancaster bombers. The factory was located alongside the current Leeds Bradford Airport.

Rodley
Rodley to the west had two factories, Smiths and Booths, that manufactured cranes and had been converted to make bombs.

Modern history 
By the 20th century this social and economic had started to change with the creation of the academic institutions that are known today as the University of Leeds and Leeds Beckett University. This period had also witnessed expansion in medical provision, particularly Leeds General Infirmary and St James's Hospital. Following the Second World War there has been, as in many other cities, a decline in secondary industries that thrived in the 19th century.  However this decline was reversed in the growth of new tertiary industries such as finance  retail, call centres, offices and media. Today Leeds is known as one of eight core cities that act as a focus of their respective regions and Leeds is generally regarded as the dominant city of the 
ceremonial county of West Yorkshire.