[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kevin Gilbert (author)

ery in Sydney in 1970, in an exhibition organised by the Australia Council.

Particularly in his early verse, Gilbert uses the poetry as an apologia in respect to his own life whilst challenging the morality of the wider society.

Other writing
He authored Because a White Man'll Never Do It in 1973.

In 1972, another play by Gilbert, The Gods Look Down, was produced at the Wayside Theatre, a small alternative theatre in Sydney. The production, directed by Barry Donnelly, is described as a dance drama. Gilbert's notes for the program, describe it as "an emotional fantasy using subconsciously emotive scenes based on modern spiritual drift and identity loss, which is actually the present search for a spiritual force or a god". The play is poetic and semi-abstract and moves from dialogue accompanied by movement to movement-based explorations of love and sexuality.

Along with his political work which was about the Aboriginal people in the 1970s, Gilbert wrote a number of plays and sketches, including Ghosts in Cell Ten, The Blush of Birds, Eternally Eve, Evening of Fear, and Everyman Should Care. Many of these seem to have never been staged but stylistically seem to pre-empt much of the work of First Nations writers and practitioners of the 1990s, such as Wesley Enoch and Deborah Mailman.

In 1978, the National Book Council presented him its annual book award for his book Living Black: Blacks Talk to Kevin Gilbert. The book included interviews with various Black commentators of the day including musician and dancer Robert Jabanungga.

In 1988 he was awarded the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission's Human Rights Award for Literature for editing the Aboriginal poetry anthology Inside Black Australia. He returned the medal to the Governor-general, Sir Ninian Stephens, citing the ongoing injustice and suffering of his people. Gilbert continued writing and exhibiting his artwork.

Activism

Around 1971, Gilbert established the National Aboriginal Theatre Foundation, which did not last long. A journal called Alchuringa, listed as the "official journal of the National Aboriginal Theatre Foundation and the Aboriginal Tourist and Economic Development Association" and published in Sydney by Breda Publications, ran from December 1971 to February 1972 (not to be confused with a journal of the same name published in 1977 by the Aboriginal Land Rights Club at La Trobe University, Melbourne). It was noted as "Incorporating Churinga A.P.A.", referring to Churinga, which was published for the Aborigines Progressive Association from 1964 to 1970, edited by Herbert Groves, also by Breda. Alchuringa adopted a radical tone and urged Aboriginal people to engage in protest. Along with other Indigenous publications The Koorier, Black News Service, Black Nation, North Queensland Palm Islander, and Koori Bina, the journal was later described as "staunchly political and oppositional to mainstream media messages and government policy".

From 1972 onwards Gilbert was active in numerous Aboriginal human rights causes and most notably in supporting the establishing the Aboriginal Tent Embassy at the Old Parliament House in Canberra.

Gilbert wrote a foreword in the third issue of the magazine Identity in 1972, and in 1975 an article on Indigenous land rights which was held by the publisher of the magazine, the Aboriginal Publications Foundation.

In October 1973 Gilbert was charged with having maliciously sent a letter threatening to kill another person, having written a letter to another man in which he allegedly threatened to kill the Queen. He was at that time editor and sole journalist on the Foundation for Aboriginal Affairs' newspaper, Black Australian News. 

In 1979 he led the "National Aboriginal Government" protest on Capital Hill, Canberra, calling for acceptance of Australian Aboriginal Sovereignty.

He became chair of the "Treaty '88" campaign for a sovereign treaty between Aboriginal nations and peoples and non-Aboriginal Australians, as a proper foundation for all people living in Australia now. He defined the legal argument for a treaty or treaties and Aboriginal sovereignty in his 1987 work Aboriginal Sovereignty, Justice, the Law and  Land.

For the last year of his life, in 1992, he was active in the re-establishment of the Aboriginal Tent Embassy after its 20th anniversary on a permanent basis, and it remains the spearhead of the Sovereignty Movement to this day. He is known for embracing the term "Black".

In the lead-up to Australia's bicentenary celebrations, Gilbert chaired the "Treaty '88" campaign for a treaty enshrining Aboriginal rights and sovereignty.