[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John H. Gibbons (scientist)

ign Relations and the Federation of American Scientists.

In 2005 he was awarded the US Civilian Research and Development Foundation (CRDF) George Brown Award for International Science and Technology Collaboration, CRDF's highest award, established to honor the late Rep. George Brown, Jr.

Tributes 

Former Senator and Vice President Al Gore issued a statement on July 29, 2015, eulogizing Gibbons, which reads, in part: "I am deeply saddened by the news that my good friend, former colleague and fellow Tennessean, Jack Gibbons, recently passed away. I first worked with Jack while serving in the House of Representatives after he had left the Oak Ridge National Laboratory to take the helm of the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment during an increasingly complex scientific and technological age. I, later, had the privilege of working even more closely with him after his appointment to serve as the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology at the beginning of the new administration in January 1993. Jack had a rare and uncanny ability to look at critical large-scale issues affecting our planet through scientific, technological, social and ethical lenses and present a definitive overview to help policy makers better address such issues and better anticipate future problems. It was Jack's optimism and imagination that did so much to help the United States face the difficult issues of our time, including the climate crisis. He was utterly unique and irreplaceable."

Personal and family life 

Gibbons was born in Harrisonburg, Virginia, in 1929.  As a teenager he became an Eagle Scout and earned the Order of the Arrow.  Gibbons married Mary Ann Hobart in 1955; together they had three children:  Virginia Neil, Diana Conrad, and Mary Marshall.   For many years until shortly before his death, he and his wife resided in The Plains, Virginia.  He is preceded in death by a brother, William Conrad Gibbons (1926-2015), an American historian noted for his in-depth chronicling of the Vietnam War. Gibbons died after a stroke at Crozet, Virginia, in 2015.

References

External links

Dr. John H. Gibbons Home Page
Dr. John H. Gibbons Curriculum Vita
Dr. John H. Gibbons Biography - Short
White House Biography 

2015 deaths
1929 births
University of Tennessee faculty
American physicists
Clinton administration personnel
Duke University alumni
Fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
Fellows of the American Physical Society
Members of the United States National Academy of Engineering
Oak Ridge National Laboratory people
People from Harrisonburg, Virginia
People from The Plains, Virginia
Randolph–Macon College alumni
Scientists from Virginia
Directors of the Office of Science and Technology Policy