[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Liceo scientifico

ht about by the Gelmini reform did not touch on some experimentations and addresses already activated, including the lyceums sports curricula. The revision of these guidelines was launched in 2008, and ended with the proposal in 2011 of a sports curriculum that can be activated at lyceum institutes.

The curriculum is an articulation of the liceo scientifico and issues a scientific baccalaureate curriculum sporting courses. Presents the study of a new subject: "Sports law and economics", there is an increase in the hours of physical and sports sciences and of the natural sciences, while the Latin language is absent (in some cases it is included for 3 hours a week among biennium and triennium) and the history of art, also, the hours devoted to philosophy have been reduced.

The first curse with sports curriculum was inaugurated in the school year 2012-2013 at the liceo scientifico of the Convitto Nazionale "Vittorio Emanuele II" of Rome, in collaboration with the "Giulio Onesti" Olympic Preparation Center of the CONI.

The study plan is as follows:

 1 with Computer Technology at the biennium
 2 Biology, Chemistry, Earth sciences

It is included the teaching, in a foreign language (the language must be a co-official language of the European Union different from the main language of the course), of a non-linguistic subject (due to CLIL European project) included in the area of activities and compulsory courses for all students or in the area of the teachings that can be activated by the educational institutions within the limits of the teaching staff annually assigned.

Final exam

As all kind of Italian high secondary school, also the liceo scientifico ends with an examination whose final score is on a 100-point scale.
The exam is compound of three different written tests and an oral test: 
 prima prova ("first test"), an Italian language written test, same as in the other kinds of Italian high seconday school. In those parts of Italy where Italian is not the only official language, the first test can be alternatively held in the local co-official language (German in province of Bolzano, Slovenian in some areas of the province of Trieste and Ladin in some municipalities of the provinces of Trento and Bolzano);
 seconda prova ("second test"), a written test of mathematics or physics, decided at national level for each curriculum. This test for the liceo scientifico is compound by 2 problems and 10 questions, the examinee have to choose and resolve 1 problem and 5 questions out of them, problems and questions vary among curricula;
 terza prova ("third test"), a multidisciplinary test decided by the exam committee, which contains questions about four subjects of the last year of course, two subjects are nationally chosen, while the other two are chosen by the school, one of the four subjects must be a foreign language.
This test was removed in 2018, all subject now were asked in the colloquio orale:
 colloquio orale ("oral interview"), an overall oral test (prova orale) regarding all the subjects of the last year, during the oral test, the exam committee value a presentation made by the examinee related to the last years arguments and as questions related to the presentation or to the previous tests (an oral test judged sufficient is awarded at least 13 points).

Students are examined by an exam committee which is formed in equal parts by their own teachers and teachers coming from other schools. The first and second tests are written by the Ministry of Education, while the third test and the oral test are prepared and administered by the exam committee.

The total score is the sum of the pre-exam score, the written tests scores and the oral test score.
Examinee whom at the end of the third written test have less than 30 total points are not admitted to the oral test.
If the total points exceed 100, the final score is rounded to 100, if the total points exceed 101, the final score becomes 100 con lode ("100 cum laude").
The final exam is passed with a score of 60 or more.

The final exam is officially called esame di Stato ("state exam"), although the old name esame di maturità ("maturity exam") is still in common use.

See also
 List of schools in Italy
 Liceo linguistico
 Liceo classico

References

Education in Italy
School types