[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Chen Ding-nan

Chen Ding-nan (29 September 1943 – 5 November 2006), sometimes transliterated Chen Ting-nan or referred to as David Chen, was an environmentalist, Taiwanese statesmen and Minister of Justice noted for his efforts to fight corruption and characterized as a leader of the country's anti-nuclear movement. Due to the 9–13 July 2002 state visit to the United States of America Chen became the first Taiwan government official since 1979 (when the United States cut its official diplomatic relations with Taiwan) to have been invited into the White House.

Early life
In 1966, Chen obtained an undergraduate degree in law from the National Taiwan University. Consecutively, he fulfilled his military duty and then began a fourteen-year career in business, starting as a salesperson and then quickly becoming general manager and running various businesses before beginning an official political career.

The  (see ) on 28 February 1980 reportedly was a life-changing event for Chen and made him give up his business career and enter into politics. Reportedly, the massacre was the main reason for this career change. At the time of the Kaohsiung Incident (late 1979), Chen was still running the business of a successful shoe exporter. Even though Chen held a graduate degree in law, he never took the exam for lawyer or judge, reportedly because he witnessed dark sides during his military service as a martial judge. The outbreak of the massacre changed his mind, as it forced him to face the injustice in Taiwan's society. It has been claimed that Chen formulated his decision to give up his businesses as follows:

Politics
Chen first got involved with politics due to connections with the Tangwai movement. His twenty-five-year political career officially started in 1981. By the end of this year, he was supported by the Tangwai movement and was elected magistrate of Yilan County as an independent party candidate with fifty-two percent of the votes, beating the Kuomintang candidate by a gap of 7000 votes. Thus Chen became the first non-KMT magistrate of Yilan County. Chen would hold the position for two terms (being re-elected with seventy percent of the votes), until 1989.

In 1993 he joined the Democratic Progressive Party so as to run for the provincial governor elections in 1994, but lost the elections in second position.
Cf.: .

A further career highlight includes serving three successive terms as a legislator for the Legislative Yuan, starting with being elected in the 1989 elections. During one of the re-elections periods, one of the supporting slogans was reportedly "Support Chen Ding-Nan, Stir Taiwan Province" (). After his second term (commencing on 1 February 1993) and his third term (commencing in 1996), he renewed his term of office for a fourth administration (commencing on 1 February 1999) but left the post early on 20 May 2000 to take up his ministerial appointment.

In 2000, when the DPP came to power, Chen became Minister of Justice, heading the Taiwan's Ministry of Justice until 2005.

According to a 2002 article in The Journalist, Chen was part of what was referred to as the 'Ilan gang', a group of DPP officials associated with the New Tide faction in the party and having ties to Premier Yu Shyi-kun. Other members of the 'gang' included Chen Chu and Lee Kun-tse, all originally from Yilan as well.

In 2005, he ran again for the office of Magistrate of Yilan County but lost to the Kuomintang candidate Lu Kuo-hua.

After this defeat, Chen thanked his supporters, suggesting an end to his political career.

Policies

Chen is noted for introducing policy which made days off for national holidays more flexible. Many of his policy decisions reduced the control exerted or traditions enforced by the authoritarian Kuomintang-dominated central government. These choices included the 1986 announcement to end flag-raising ceremonies on New Year's Day, as well as the 1988 decision to stop enforcing the requirement that movie theatres play the national anthem before each film showing. He also removed the portraits of Chiang Kai-shek and Chiang Ching-kuo from government buildings such as schools, destroyed "loyalty records" kept of local public sector employees, and, within Yilan County Government, deactivated the Human Resources Second Office, alternatively known as the , incorporated as a department of every public institution.

1994 provincial governor elections

The first ever elections for the post of provincial governor of Taiwan, held on 3 December 1994, with a turnout of 76 percent, resulted in a clear favor of James Soong (56 percent of votes) of the Kuomintang, followed by Chen (39 percent) of the  Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), Ju Gau-jeng (4 percent) of The New Party and the two remaining candidates, Wu Tzu of the Taiwan United People's Party and the independent Tsai Cheng-chih (1 percent for the two candidates combined).