[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# European Association for Evolutionary Political Economy

AEPE sponsors a periodical, Journal of Institutional Economics (JOIE), devoted to the study of the nature, role and evolution of institutions in the economy. The first issue was published in 2005. There are currently 4 issues per volume. In 2012, JOIE received a high impact factor for a new journal.

Selected EAEPE Volumes
 Amin, Ash and Michael Dietrich (eds) (1991), Towards a New Europe: Structural Change in the European Economy, Aldershot: Edward Elgar.
 Amin, Ash and Jerzy Hausner (eds) (1997), Beyond Market and Hierarchy: Interactive Governance and Social Complexity, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Blaas, Wolfgang and John Foster (eds) (1993), Mixed Economies in Europe: An Evolutionary Perspective on their Emergence, Transition and Regulation,Aldershot: Edward Elgar.
 Delorme, Robert and Kurt Dopfer (eds) (1994), The Political Economy of Diversity: Evolutionary Perspectives on Economic Order and Disorder, Aldershot: Edward Elgar.
 Dolfsma, Wilfred and Charlie Dannreuther (eds) (2003), Globalization, Social Capital and Inequality: Contested Concepts, Contested Experiences, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Dolfsma, Wilfred and Luc Soete (eds) (2006), Understanding the Dynamics of a Knowledge Economy, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Elsner, Wolfram and Hardy Hanappi (eds) (2008), Varieties of Capitalism and New Institutional Deals: Regulation, Welfare and the New Economy, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar. 
 Finch, John and Magali Orillard (eds) (2005), Complexity and the Economy: Implications for Economic Policy, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Garrouste, Pierre and Stravos Ioannides (eds) (2001), Evolution and Path Dependence in Economic Ideas: Past and Present, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Groenewegen, John and Jack Vromen (eds) (1999), Institutions and the Evolution of Capitalism: Implications of Evolutionary Economics, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Groenewegen, John, Christos Pitelis and Sven-Erik Sjöstrand (eds) (1995), On Economic Institutions: Theory and Applications, Aldershot: Edward Elgar.
Hanappi, Hardy and Wolfram Elsner (eds) (2008), Advances in Evolutionary Institutional Economics: Evolutionary Mechanisms, Non-Knowledge and Strategy. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Hodgson, Geoffrey M. (ed.) (2007), The Evolution of Economic Institutions: A Critical Reader, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Hodgson, Geoffrey M. and Ernesto Screpanti (eds) (1991), Rethinking Economics: Markets, Technology and Economic Evolution, Aldershot: Edward Elgar.
 Hodgson, Geoffrey M., Warren J. Samuels and Mark J. Tool (eds) (1994), The Elgar Companion to Institutional and Evolutionary Economics, 2 vols., Aldershot: Edward Elgar.
 Kunneke, Rold W., John Groenewegen and Jean-Francois Auger (eds) (2009), The Governance of Network Industries: Institutions, Technology and Policy in Reregulated Infrastructures, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar. 
 Louçã, Francisco and Mark Perlman (eds) (2000). Is Economics an Evolutionary Science? The Legacy of Thorstein Veblen, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Michie, Jonathan and Angelo Reati (eds) (1998), Employment, Technology and Economic Needs: Theory, Evidence and Economic Policy, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Nielsen, Klaus and Björn Johnson (eds) (1998), Institutions and Economic Change: New Perspectives on Markets, Firms and Technology, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Salanti, Andrea and Ernesto Screpanti (eds) (1997), Pluralism in Economics: New Perspectives in History and Methodology, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Saviotti, Pier Paolo and Bart Nooteboom (eds) (2000), Technology and Knowledge: From the Firm to Innovation Systems, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
 Tylecote, Andrew and Jan van der Straaten (eds) (1998), Environment, Technology and Economic Growth: The Challenge of Sustainable Development, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.

See also

 Institutional economics
 Evolutionary economics
 Heterodox economics
 Pluralism in economics
 Post-autistic economics
 Human behaviour
 Institution
 Social order
 Structure and agency
 Sociocultural evolution
 Evolutionary psychology
 Universal Darwinism
 Realism
 Social innovation
 Public policy
 Innovation
 ESDP Network
 Institute for New Economic Thinking
 Geoffrey Hodgson

References

External links
 
 FEED - Foundation for European Economic Development
 Journal of Institutional Economics 
 AFEE - Association for Evolutionary Economics
 ISNIE - International Society for New Institutional Economics
 Edward Elgar Publishing

Economics societies
Schools of economic thought
Development economics
Organizations established in 1988
Economic history societies