[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Test Pilot School

The National Test Pilot School (NTPS) is the only civilian test-pilot school in the United States, located in Mojave, California.  It is organized as a not-for-profit educational institute under California state law and is governed by a board of trustees.  NTPS is one of the seven test-pilot schools worldwide recognized by the international Society of Experimental Test Pilots, giving pilot graduates of NTPS instant initial acceptance into their society. In 2016, NTPS became the first test-pilot school in the world to be certified as a Flight Test Authorised Training Organisation  by the European Aviation Safety Organization.

History
The NTPS grew out of a successful series of introductory flight test courses taught for military test organizations in the United States and Canada.  Using an instrumented De Havilland Dove (DH-104), introductory, two-week performance and flying qualities flight test courses were taught for Edwards AFB, California; Patuxent River NAS, Maryland; Eglin AFB, Florida; the Naval Postgraduate School, California; Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio; and the Aerospace Engineering Test Establishment, CFB Cold Lake, Canada.  The success of these courses led to opportunities to teach broader content flight test courses abroad.  

The school was formally established as a not-for-profit educational institute in  California in April 1981.  The initial years of the school consisted of teaching introductory courses within the United States, mainly for military organizations, and teaching longer courses abroad (in Israel, Taiwan, Brazil, and South Africa) using customer aircraft.  By 1986, the decision was made to construct a large hangar and classroom complex in Mojave, California.  Over the ensuing years, more flight test training was done in Mojave with a growing fleet of aircraft, rather than at customer locations.  Today, the school trains 10–30 students in year-long courses with about 200-300 students attending one of several short courses each year.

In 2016, NTPS became the first test pilot school in the world to be certified as a Flight Test Authorised Training Organisation by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). Today, NTPS trains military and civilian students from over 30 different countries around the world.

Courses

Professional course
The principal course taught at the NTPS is the professional course, which is certified for EASA category 1. It is a one-year-long course covering performance, flying qualities, and avionics systems.  Both test pilots and flight test engineers are trained.  Portions of the course are specifically tailored for fixed or rotary-wing pilots and engineers.  Subsets of the professional course, taught in conjunction with professional course students, are offered routinely:
 Customers can send students to either the performance and flying qualities (PF&Q) professional course or to the systems professional course, each being around six months in duration.
 The EASA category 2 course is the core portion of the P&FQ curriculum plus some systems curriculum in a stand-alone course of 20 weeks in duration.
 Within the professional course, the content is divided into modules, nominally 1–3 weeks in duration, which can be taken for academic credit.

Short courses
In addition to the professional course, the school has nine regularly scheduled short courses of two to six weeks' duration. These include introductory courses in fixed and rotary wing P&FQ, avionics systems testing, operational test and evaluation, civil certification courses, night-vision systems, production flight testing, and a pretest pilot school course designed as a preparatory course for students planning to attend the professional course.

Curriculum
The NTPS professional course curriculum initially followed the format and flow of the course taught at the US Air Force Test Pilot School.  The content was divided among three major components - performance, flying qualities, and systems flight testing, with the flow of the course always was executed in that sequence.  Due to customer feedback, that content and sequence were changed in 1999.