[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Education in Mozambique

Education in Mozambique is organized by three main stages: primary education, secondary education and higher education. Although having a national public education system, several educational programmes and initiatives in Mozambique are mainly funded and supported by the international community.

The Human Rights Measurement Initiative (HRMI) finds that Mozambique is fulfilling only 70.3% of what it should be fulfilling for the right to education based on the country's level of income. HRMI breaks down the right to education by looking at the rights to both primary education and secondary education. While taking into consideration Mozambique's income level, the nation is achieving 100.0% of what should be possible based on its resources (income) for primary education but only 40.5% for secondary education.

History

Colonial period
Prior and during the colonial period, native African education in Portuguese East Africa was essentially informal, with initiation rites within tribes the only formal element.   Formal education was however provided by Koranic schools in Muslim towns, primarily in the north.   These schools focused on knowledge of the Koran and Koranic Arabic.   In areas of Portuguese control or influence, schooling was also undeveloped.   From the seventeenth century, Portuguese and a small number of Africans received a basic level of education (and inculcation in Portuguese cultural and religious values) at mission schools in Portuguese towns, but many of the children of Portuguese or African princes were instead sent to Goa or Portugal for their education.   The small number of educated Africans meant a lack of literate workers, the shortfall being made up in part by Indians.

A growth in the educational activities of missionaries from other countries prompted the introduction of various controls in 1907: education could henceforth be conducted only in Portuguese or the native languages, while schools and textbooks were subject to government approval.

In 1927, the class of assimilados was introduced, creating a separate class of Africans who were required to possess, among others, a fluent command of written and spoken Portuguese.   This class remained small, however: even by the early 1970s, the literacy rate had reached only 5%.  It has been argued that the Portuguese authorities deliberately withheld education from the African population in an effort to prevent the growth of an independence movement, and that education was provided to a select few in order to isolate them from the general population.

In 1930, the education system consisted of 47 elementary schools (28 government-run, and 19 Catholic) with 11,217 students between them, roughly equally divided between Portuguese and Africans; 186 rudimentary schools, which taught basic Portuguese to just under 30,000 Africans (with another 8132 in rudimentary schools run by foreign missionaries); and one secondary school in the capital, which was educating 164 Europeans, 26 Indians, 17 of mixed race, and one African.

Such education as was provided for the African population was strongly geared towards increasing their suitability for work: the Accordo Missionário of 1940, which set out the framework for the provision of education by the church, stated that rudimentary education was for,

”the perfect training of the indigenas in national and moral ideals and the acquisition of habits and aptitudes for work... Moral ideals being understood to include the abandonment of idleness and the training of future rural workers and artisans”.

The Portuguese did put expand educational provision towards the end of the colonial period: the number of schools of adaptation (successors to the rudimentary schools) rose from 1,122  in 1951 to 2563 in 1958.   Education's share of the budget rose from 5.4% in 1964 to 9.5% in NATE.   Even this, however, was still dominated by education for the white minority, and by 1962 still only 25% of the population had any education at all.  In 1964 attendance was made compulsory for all children within  of a school, though the lack of facilities prevented this from being fully implemented.
.

The Frelimo era

Frelimo took steps to provide education even before it started the Mozambican War of Independence.  A school for Mozambican exiles was founded in Dar es Salaam in the 1960s, though by 1967 it still had only 150 students.   The school foundered following the assassination of Eduardo Mondlane in 1969.