[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Moshe Feinstein

High Voice); 3 volumes, printed in his lifetime by Avraham Fishelis, the director of his yeshiva

Some of Feinstein's early works, including a commentary on the Talmud Yerushalmi, were lost in Communist Russia, though his first writings are being prepared for publication by the Feinstein Foundation.

Feinstein is known for writing, in a number of places, that certain statements by prominent rishonim which Feinstein found theologically objectionable  were not in fact written by those rishonim, but rather inserted into the text by erring students. According to Rav Dovid Cohen of Brooklyn, Feinstein attributed such comments to students as a way of politely rejecting statements by rishonim while still retaining full reverence for them as religious leaders of earlier generations.

References

Bibliography
 

 Ellenson, David. "Two Responsa of Rabbi Moshe Feinstein." American Jewish Archives Journal, Volume LII, Nos. 1 and 2, Fall 2000–2001.

 Rabbi Shimon Finkelman, Rabbi Nosson Scherman. Reb Moshe: The Life and Ideals of HaGaon Rabbi Moshe Feinstein. Brooklyn, NY: ArtScroll Mesorah, 1986. .
 

 _. "Jewish education for women: Rabbi Moshe Feinstein's map of America." American Jewish history, 1995
 Rackman, Emanuel. "Halachic progress: Rabbi Moshe Feinstein's Igrot Moshe on Even ha-Ezer" in Judaism 12 (1964), 365–373
Robinson, Ira. "Because of our many sins: The contemporary Jewish world as reflected in the responsa of Moses Feinstein" 2001
 Rosner, Fred. "Rabbi Moshe Feinstein's Influence on Medical Halacha" Journal of Halacha and Contemporary Society. No. XX, 1990
 __. Rabbi Moshe Feinstein on the treatment of the terminally ill." Judaism. Spring 37(2):188–98. 1988
 Rabbi Mordecai Tendler, interview with grandson of Rabbi Feinstein and shamash for 18 years.
 Warshofsky, Mark E. "Responsa and the Art of Writing: Three Examples from the Teshuvot of Rabbi Moshe Feinstein," in An American Rabbinate: A Festschrift for Walter Jacob Pittsburgh, Rodef Shalom Press, 2001 (Download in PDF format)

External links
Biography of Rabbi Moshe Feinstein
 “HaRav Moshe Feinstein: In honor of his 15th yahrtzeit, 13th Adar” – A retrospective of Rav Moshe Feinstein's life, with recollections on his character as a person.
 Most volumes of Igros Moshe are available for free at hebrewbooks.org. A detailed listing with links to all freely available sections appears at Mi Yodeya: Quick-Reference List of the Section-Contents of Igros Moshe.

 
1895 births
1986 deaths
People from Uzda District
People from Igumensky Uyezd
Belarusian Haredi rabbis
Soviet emigrants to the United States
American Haredi rabbis
American people of Belarusian-Jewish descent
20th-century Russian rabbis
Bible commentators
20th-century American rabbis
Jewish medical ethics
Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah
People from the Lower East Side
Writers from Manhattan
Burials at Har HaMenuchot
Authors of books on Jewish law
Orthodox rabbis from New York City