[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# SMS Novara (1850)

inand Maximilian
In April 1864, SMS Novara had the important task of carrying Archduke Maximilian and his wife Charlotte to Veracruz, in the Americas, for their establishment as the new Emperor and Empress of Mexico during the Second Mexican Empire. Novara arrived at Veracruz, Mexico on 28 May 1864.

Over 3 years later, upon the capture and execution of Maximilian I of Mexico, by the constitutional Mexican government (of Benito Juárez), Admiral Wilhelm von Tegetthoff was sent with Novara to bring Maximilian's body home to Austria, arriving in the port of Trieste on 16 January 1868.

Battle of Lissa
SMS Novara saw active service during the Battle of Lissa which took place on 20 July 1866 in the Adriatic Sea near the island of Vis (Italian: Lissa). SMS Novara belonged to Admiral Wilhelm von Tegetthoff's 2nd Division, commanded by Baron Anton von Petz, which consisted mainly of wooden steam warships. Novaras commander, the Swedish naval officer Erik af Klint, was killed in the engagement. The battle was a decisive victory for an outnumbered Austrian Empire force over a superior Italian force. It was the first major sea battle between ironclads and one of the last to involve deliberate ramming.

Legacy
The Novara was hulked in 1881, being put into use as an immobilised training ship. The vessel was finally broken up eighteen years later.

 SMS Novara has left such a legacy behind that a depiction of her was selected for a commemorative coin: the 20 euro S.M.S. Novara coin minted on 16 June 2004.  The obverse shows the frigate SMS Novara under sail during her circumnavigation of the globe in 1857-1859. Novara was the first Austrian ship in the Austro-Hungarian Navy to circumnavigate the world. In the background, there is a representation of the Chinese coast. Seagulls, showing the nearness to land, circle the ship.

Approximately 30,000 copies of Karl von Scherzer's book on the circumnavigation of the world of the frigate Novara were sold, a huge number in that era. It is considered the second most successful popular scientific work in the German language in the 19th century; second only to Alexander von Humboldt's 5-volume Cosmography. An English edition was published shortly after, printed by Saunders, Otley and Co. in London in three volumes 1861-1863, containing more than 1200 pages. The complete title of the book is: Karl von Scherzer: "Narrative of the Circumnavigation of the Globe by the Austrian Frigate "Novara" (B. von Wullersdorf-Urbair,) Undertaken by Order of the Imperial Government, Under the Immediate Auspices of His I. and R. Highness the Archduke Ferdinand Maximilian, Commander in-Chief of the Austrian Navy."

See also 
  for ships of the same name.
 Imperial Natural History Museum, predeceding institution of the Naturhistorisches Museum.
 European and American voyages of scientific exploration

Notes

References 
 Donko, Wilhelm, "An Austrian View of the Philippines. The Austrian Scientist Karl von Scherzer on his visit in Manila aboard the frigate "Novara" in June 1858". Published by epubli.de, Berlin 2012, 176 pages, 
 "Embarkation of the Body of the Late Emperor Maximillian at Vera Cruz, Mexico", The Illustrated London News, 11 January 1868, p. 32 [with an engraved view of the SMS Novara and HMS Niger].
 
 Treffer, G. (ed.), Die Weltumseglung der Novara, 1857-1859 ("The Round-the-World Voyage of the Novara"), Molden, Vienna, 1973, 224p.
 Turner, Brian, "Novara: Austria's Ship of Fate" from "Heligoland Bight - Wooden Ship's Last Sea Battle (9 May 1864)", in Military History, February 1997, pages 54–61.

External links
 Detailed history of frigate Novara
 Expedition
 Reise der österreichischen Fregatte Novara um die Erde. Geologischer Theil, vol. 1.

1850 ships
Exploration ships
Second French intervention in Mexico
Frigates of the Austro-Hungarian Navy
Ships built in Venice