[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carlos Enríquez Gómez

hop, tied Sara Cheméndez (his female model at the time) to the horse and had the animal lashed, in order to have a more realistic scene for the painting. The same year, he was again awarded a prize in the National Exhibition (for El Rapto de las Mulatas), and published his first novel, Tilín García.

In the 1940s he wrote two more novels (La Vuelta de Chencho and La Feria de Guaicanama, which were published posthumously in 1960), illustrated books, held conferences and exhibitions in several countries, wrote articles for various magazines, and continued to paint. He also received another prize in 1946's National Exhibition for his painting La Arlequina.

His life was marked by alcoholism. During the 1950s his health weakened, and he suffered several problems with broken bones, allegedly caused by his unregulated way of living. He is said to have had severe financial problems, for the same reason. He died on May 2, 1957, while painting in his study. That same day, a personal exposition was to be inaugurated (it was delayed a month after news of his death). His house in Havana is now a small museum with about 140 paintings by Enríquez, and a number of sketches and writings. The house also acts as the meeting place for a small organization of young Cuban artists, named Hurón Azúl.

Style
Enríquez' signature visual language was mainly composed by fluid lines, overlapping color forms, transparencies and dynamic figure compositions. His works usually aimed at depicting the Cuban countryside's history, myths and folklore. Poor peasants, bandits, sensual women, restless horses, and landscapes of palm trees and rolling hills were his common subjects. One of the foremost examples of Enríquez's romancero guajiro and of his painting in general is El Rapto de las mulatas (1938), in which Enríquez includes some of the above named elements of his iconography: aggressive rural men, sensual mulatto women, restless horses, and windswept landscape of rolling hills. Its heated emotional subject of abduction and potential rape is not only depicted, but forcefully expressed through a personal visual language of pulsating and diaphanous color-forms. Enríquez's paintings are about ecstasy when they are not about violence, for in both themes he identified one of the fundamental characteristics of his latitudes-the strident, orgasmic, experience of finiteness.

He also painted portraits and self-portraits, a large number of nudes, and a handful of still lifes. He described his work in the following manner:

"My work is in a constant state of evolution towards the interpretation of images produced between vigilance and sleep, Nevertheless, I am not a surrealist. Currently, I am interested in interpreting the sensibility of a Cuban, American or continental atmosphere but removed from the methods of the European schools. To do otherwise would be like trying to resolve that which is ours with foreign formulas, for oriental art is as distant from my sensibility (though it may move me) as is the art of Picasso".

Enríquez was also an accomplished writer and illustrator. He published 3 books and a number of essays and articles. He also provided the illustration artwork for books by Nicolás Guillén and Alejo Carpentier, two famous Cuban writers that were friends of the painter and regularly visited his workshop.

Collections
Enríquez' art started having wide recognition during his lifetime, currently his work is permanently displayed in the following museums and collections around the world:

 National Museum of Havana (or Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes).
Museum of Modern Art, New York.
 El Hurón Azúl, Havana.
 Cuban Foundation Museum, Daytona Beach.
 Cuban Museum of Art and Culture, Miami.

A number of Enríquez' paintings and drawings are as well present in several private collections in Cuba, Latin America, the United States and Europe.

See also

 Culture of Cuba
 List of Cubans

References

Further reading
 Pintores Cubanos'', Editors Vicente Baez, Virilio Pinera, Calvert Casey, and Anton Arrufat; Ediciones Revolucion, Havana, Cuba 1962

1900 births
1957 deaths
20th-century Cuban painters
20th-century Cuban male artists
Male painters