[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Rafael Correa

ears since ENIPLA was established pregnancies amongst women between the ages of 11 and 14 decreased by 18 percent. At the end of 2014 Correa replaced ENIPLA with Plan Familia (a family-based abstinence only program). One study found that this shift led to an increase in teenage pregnancy in Ecuador.

CIA
Correa alleged that the United States attempted to meddle in the country's affairs during his presidency, saying that a representative from the American Central Intelligence Agency requested a meeting with him at the start of his administration and that the accounts of senior state officials had been hacked. Former British diplomat Craig Murray claimed that the CIA had tripled its budget to destabilise Rafael Correa's government during 2012.

Third presidential term: 2013–2017 

General elections were held in Ecuador on 17 February 2013 to elect the President, the National Assembly, Provincial Assemblies and members of the Andean Parliament. Correa was reelected president, winning by a large margin in the first round of the presidential election. According to the quick count released by Participación Ciudadana, the Alianza PAIS movement (AP) reached two-thirds of the new National Assembly. The results gave the movement 100 of the 137 seats contested in the polls. Correa's closest electoral rival, Guillermo Lasso (with 11 of the 137 seats in the new National Assembly), conceded shortly after the election concluded.

The Ministry of Telecommunication and Information Society won the WSIS 2013 prize in category C5: Building confidence and security in the use of ICTs with the project Digital Training through Mobile Classrooms

Economy 
Correa's government accepted a US$364 million loan from the IMF for earthquake reconstruction.

Between 2007 and 2014, poverty decreased from 36.7% to 22.5%. At the same time, inequalities, as measured by the Gini index, decreased from 0.55 to 0.47. Between 2006 and 2016, poverty decreased from 36.7% to 22.5% and annual per capita GDP growth was 1.5 percent (as compared to 0.6 percent over the prior two decades).

People with disabilities 
According to The Guardian, Ecuador has become one of the most progressive nations in Latin America when it comes to providing financial, technical and professional assistance to people with disabilities. State spending on related fields has increased from $2m a year to $150m. Tests are carried out on newborns to ensure care is provided early, and all leading employers in Ecuador must earmark at least 4% of their jobs for disabled people. There are also programmes to provide braille texts and computers for visually impaired people.

Foreign policy 
In November 2013, Correa's government said that the United States Agency for International Development was supporting the opposition and asked it to end its activities in Ecuador.

In April 2014, Correa's government ordered all US Defence Department employees working in the US embassy out of the country. Correa had previously stated that the US had too many military officers in Ecuador and that they had "infiltrated ... all sectors" of the country.

Police and crime 

The homicide rate per 100,000 inhabitants fell from 18 in 2011 to 5.8 in 2017, making Ecuador one of the safest countries in the Americas. This was achieved in part after a thorough reform of the police force, which was known for its corruption and inefficiency. The length of police training and their salaries have been significantly increased, and investments have been made to modernize equipment. In addition, since 2007, a new approach has been adopted that is less repressive and gives greater attention to prevention and reintegration. Access to social programs has been facilitated for ex-offenders. Above all, the reduction of poverty seems to be the main reason for the improvement of the security situation.

Post-presidency 
After finishing his term, Correa maintained an active position in national politics expressing his opinion on the situation of the country and the performance of Lenín Moreno's government through articles and editorials in the newspaper El Telégrafo, as well as in its social networks in which he issued several pronouncements on several similar topics.

Within months of winning the elections, President Moreno began to move away from his election platform, igniting a feud with Correa.

Correa led "No" campaign the during the 2018 Ecuadorian referendum and popular consultation.

Since 2018, Correa has hosted the weekly political talk show, Conversation with Correa, on RT Spanish.

On 3 July 2018, a judge in Ecuador ordered the arrest of Correa after he failed to appear in court during a trial surrounding the kidnapping of his political opponent Fernando Balda. Correa, who lived in Belgium at the time, denied the allegations regarding the kidnapping.