[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Mass media in South Korea

attributes.

-BAND: A software application that focused on group communication and stayed connected with your group. This includes features such as polls, group calendars, and private chats.

-Naver Cafe: Similar to many forums, Naver cafe allows users to post and create their internet communities.

-LINE: Line is an instant messaging app, including Texts, images, and even voice chat.  Outside of this the company also creates characters to be shared known as LINE FRIENDS. These characters are also turned into a multitude of products. Such as plushies, pins, and even on close. Some of these characters are BT21, and Brown and Friends.
 
Cyworld is one of the first social network applications for South Korea. On Cyworld, you can chat with other members by forming friendships by sharing interests and memories. 
As time has gone on it has become less popular comparatively and failed compared to its competitors throughout the generation of social networking. Another reason for its failure was based on its restriction. “Cyworld created barriers among countries, failing to expand beyond being a local service provider” (Park Hye-min. (2011)). As of recent years, Cyworld has claimed to make a comeback.

Snow is a social media application. But unlike most applications its main focus is images. Mainly selfies. Through this application, you can alter your appearance in many ways. This includes adding makeup, changing your eye color, and even slimming your face. Other attributes are a wide variety of filters that go from, cute, creepy, and funny. This application is focused on vanity and sharing filters and images with your friends.

Blogs 
Almost every big portal site provides a blogging service. Nate, Naver, and Daum's blog are the most popular.

Social networks 
An early social networking platform Cyworld was launched in South Korea in 2000. It shut down in 2014. Users could upload their information, mood, pictures, etc. It featured the "following" of other people in a similar vein as Facebook.

Micro blogging 
with its prevalence growing in conjunction with the growing popularity of smartphones in South Korea. 'me2day' and 'yozm' are some other microblogs in South Korean media.

Regulations
What is the grounds of media regulations? Although broadcasters have freedom of expression, broadcasters have to promote public interest because electromagnetic waves are in the public domain.
'Media law' consist of two structures briefly: Business Regulation, and Content Related Regulation. They mean fairness among the broadcasters, and freedom of expression each.

Business regulations
Restrictions on market entry
It is the most powerful regulation that decide who will broadcasting business. The grounds of this regulation are largely that: electromagnetic wave is scarce, so all of those who want to operate a broadcasting system cannot do it, and the providers have to set fair to operate a broadcaster (ex, financial power, social experiences etc.) Until just recently large companies (above top 30), newspaper, agency could not operate a broadcasting system because of the independence of media. (It caused problems in Korea in history.) But recently newly revised media law allows it.
Terrestrial broadcasting, Cable Television broadcasting, satellite broadcasting: government permit
News channel, General service channel, home-shopping channel: government's approval
Other program: Resister

Ownership restrictions
It means restriction on the number of broadcasting system that one provider can own. Its purpose is to prevent monopoly or oligopoly on broadcasting.
In Summary:
One provider (person or corporation) can only own one business on the Terrestrial broadcaster and satellite broadcaster.
Cable system operator and program provider can own more than one broadcaster and transmission line. But, they can be restricted by the government with regards to market share and the number of providers.
One provider can own terrestrial broadcaster, satellite broadcaster, and cable broadcaster except a combination of terrestrial broadcaster and cable broadcaster.
On cable broadcasting, one provider can serve system operator, network operator, and program provider but, they can restricted with regard to a market share and the number of providers.
According to newly enactment of Broadcasting Law and Internet Multimedia Broadcasting Business Law from President Lee Myung-Bak's administration, the trend is changing. Newspaper and large company can hold a 10-percent stake in terrestrial broadcaster, a 30-percent stake in cable broadcaster, a 49-percent stakein IPTV or news channel.

Content regulation
Content within Korean Media is often quite restricted, depending really. They tend to censor out mass amounts of gore and violence (usually depending on what source it's on) and anything that may go against important Laws.

See also
List of newspapers in South Korea
Communications in South Korea

References