[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1977 in comics

The first issue of the British comics magazine Cheeky Weekly is published, in which Reg Parlett's Mustapha Million makes its debut. 
 October 24: Bill Hoest's Agatha Crumm makes its debut and will run until 1996.
 With issue #10, Marvel cancels Omega the Unknown.
 With issue #8, DC cancels Starfire.

November
 November 3: The first episode of Kamagurka's Bert is published in Humo.
 November 13: The final episode of Al Capp's Li'l Abner is published, drawing the series to a close after being in syndication since 1934.
 Following rival DC's lead, Marvel Comics raises the price of its standard comic book from 30 to 35 cents.
 With issue #18, DC cancels Richard Dragon, Kung Fu Fighter.

December
 December 31: The final issue of the Flemish children's magazine Ohee is published, supplement of the newspaper Het Volk.
 Dave Sim's Cerebus the Aardvark makes its debut and is published independently under the name Aardvark-Vanaheim.
 John Byrne and Terry Austin begin their acclaimed run as X-Men penciller/inker team with issue #108 of the title.
 With issue #8 (December 1977/January 1978 cover date), DC cancels Isis.
In the story The Blackbeard's thaler, by Guido Martina and Massimo De Vita, Jeeves makes his debut.

Specific date unknown
 The first episode of Matt Groening's Life in Hell is published.
 The Dutch comics magazine Tante Leny Presenteert receives the Stripschapprijs.
 Alfredo Chiappori starts his historical-educational comic series Storie d'Italia.

Births

Deaths

January
 January 1: Alexander Saroukhan, Armenian-Egyptian cartoonist and caricaturist, dies at age 78.
 January: Bob Brown, American comics artist (co-creator of Space Ranger, long-time penciller of Challengers of the Unknown), dies at age 62.
 January 22: James Childress, American comics artist and cartoonist (Conchy), commits suicide at age 35.
 January 24: John Rosenberger, American comics artist and painter (Girls' Romances, Superman's Girl Friend, Lois Lane, The Superman Family), dies at age 58.

February
 February 1: Edmond Hamilton, American science fiction and comic writer (Space Ranger, DC Comics), dies at age 72.
 February 11: Ben Batsford, American comics artist (Mortimer Snerd and Charlie McCarthy, Billy's Uncle, continued Doings of the Duffs, Little Annie Rooney and The Boomers (aka Frankie Doodle), dies at age 83.
 February 16: Frank Engli, American animator and comics artist, letterer and colorist (On the Wing, Rocky the Stone Age Kid, Looking Back, assisted Dumb Dora, coloured and lettered Terry and the Pirates, Male Call, Steve Canyon, Scorchy Smith), dies at age 70.
 February 21: John Hubley, American animator, film director and comics artist (Mr. Magoo, Zuckerkandl!) dies at age 62.
 Specific date unknown: Irving Spector, American animator and comics artist (Coogy, Little Lionel, Punchy the Black Crow), dies at age 62.

March
 March 20: Han Krug, Dutch illustrator and comics artist (Juffrouw Snater, Het Avontuur van Knor-Knor), dies at age 86.
 March 23: Ed Dobrotka, American comics artist (continued Superboy, Lois Lane, co-creator of the Toyman), dies at age 69.
 March 31: Alexey Komarov, Russian painter, sculptor, cartoonist, illustrator, poster artist and comics artist (Every Woman Should Know How To Raise A Child Properly), dies at age 97.

April
 April: Paul Gustavson, American comics writer and artist (The Human Bomb, The Angel), dies at age 60.
 April 8: Jean Cézard, French comics artist (Arthur le fantôme justicier), dies at age 53.

May
 May 25: 
 Christian Kittilsen, Norwegian illustrator and comics artist (Grane), dies at age 70.
 Frans Mandos, Dutch painter, illustrator and comics artist, dies at age 67.

June
 June 3: Syd Nicholls, Australian comics artist (Fatty Finn), falls from his apartment balcony and dies at age 80.
 June 6: Joseph Musial, American comics writer (Flash Gordon), artist (continued The Katzenjammer Kids, assisted on Barney Google, Blondie, Bringing Up Father,...) and author (The Career Guide for Cartoonists), dies at age 72.
 June 16: Stan Cross, American-Australian comics artist (Wally and the Major, The Potts), dies at age 88.

July
 July 5: Theo Funke Küpper, Dutch comics artist (De Verstrooide Professor), dies at age 72.
 July 8: Roy Crane, American comics artist (Wash Tubbs, Captain Easy, Buz Sawyer), dies at age 75.
 July 9: Alfred Georges Pavis, French painter, illustrator and comics artist, dies at age 91.
 Specific date unknown: Milt Stein, American animator and comics artist (Supermouse), commits suicide at age 56.

August
 August 1: Bernard van Vlijmen, Dutch painter, graphic artist, illustrator and comics artist (created occasional comics for Ons Eigen Tijdschrift), dies at age 81.
 Specific date unknown: August: Louis Cazeneuve, Argentine comics artist (co-creator of Red Raven), dies at age 68 or 69.