[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lionel Sadleir-Jackson

avy, Australian volunteers, French and US troops and White Russians. This force was intended to hold the vital Northern ports of Arkhangelsk and Murmansk open for Allied cargo ships supplying the White Russian armies fighting in the region as part of the Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War.

In the event, Sadleir-Jackson found himself operating independently and frequently in overall charge of the North Russia Campaign which suffered from poor morale and supply and a lack of political direction. In a matter of months the situation was so critical that by September 1919 the entire force was evacuated, abandoning the region to the Bolshevik armies. Nevertheless, in the months of fighting which became particularly desperate in August 1919, Sadleir-Jackson's men performed well and fought hard, two Australian volunteers in the 45th Battalion of the Royal Fusiliers even winning the Victoria Cross: Corporal Arthur Percy Sullivan and Sergeant Samuel George Pearse. Sadleir-Jackson performed well in enough to be again Mentioned in Despatches and be given a brevet promotion to colonel at the close of the campaign.

Retirement
Returning from Russia exhausted, he was appointed to command a brigade of the Territorial Army from 20 June 1920 – 5 August 1921, receiving a substantive promotion to colonel to coincide with the start of the appointment. After this Sadleir-Jackson was transferred to a very different climate. Stationed in the newly gained British colonial territories in the Middle East he became Inspector of Levies for the freshly raised colonial forces there, including the Assyrian Levies. In 1923 he left this post for England, and took retirement in 1925 after 27 years in the army. He pursued his interests during his retirement, being a keen huntsman and big game hunter as well as an excellent polo player (in 1910 he co-wrote Hints on Polo Combination, with Walter Buckmaster). He was also a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society. In the late spring of 1932 he took a tour of the Somme battlefield, including the site of his wound fourteen years earlier. On 21 May 1932 he was driving near Peronne when he encountered a farm cart in the road and swerved too vigorously to avoid it, leaving the road and colliding with an electric pylon which severed the left front wheel and threw the car over. Lionel Sadleir-Jackson died shortly afterward at Estrées-en-Chaussée as the result of massive head injuries.

Notes

References
 Wright, Damien. "Churchill's Secret War with Lenin: British and Commonwealth Military Intervention in the Russian Civil War, 1918-20", Solihull, UK, 2017

 
 

Quinlivian, Peter (2006). Forgotten Valour: The Story of Arthur Sullivan VC. Sydney: New Holland. 

Hints for Polo Combination, with Walter Buckmaster, London, Vinton & Co. 1910

1876 births
1932 deaths
British Army brigadiers
Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War
Road incident deaths in France
9th Queen's Royal Lancers officers
London Regiment officers
British Army personnel of the Second Boer War
British Army cavalry generals of World War I
Companions of the Order of the Bath
South Staffordshire Regiment officers
Companions of the Order of St Michael and St George
Fellows of the Royal Geographical Society
Companions of the Distinguished Service Order
3rd County of London Yeomanry (Sharpshooters) officers
British Army personnel of the Russian Civil War