[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Far Cry 2

ghted by Amancio was the amount of animal droppings they saw, which they took care to incorporate into the game's visual identity. Pharand said that following the trip, they realized they had gotten the design of the game "so wrong" and made several changes to properly emulate the local environment.

The only African wildlife featured in the game world were herbivores; according to the developers, due to the in-game world design, predators without careful control would have eaten all the herbivores and starved to death. The team also wanted to make hunting an unenjoyable experience that would force the players to focus on the main game content. The size of the game world made testing for bugs difficult, with Hocking later saying they should have made it smaller. NPC conversations incorporated seen and recounted anecdotes from their field trip. A large portion of the in-game ambience was recorded live during the field trip. The character animations were considered a low priority due to the game's genre, so no animation director was appointed. In hindsight, Hocking saw this as a poor choice due to its ambitious graphical presentation and lack of traditional UI.

Music
The music of Far Cry 2 was composed by Marc Canham, who was best known at the time for his work on the Driver series. He worked alongside the Nimrod Production Orchestra, a group he founded as part of his production company. When Canham was contacted about the project, he was asked to create a score that did something "new and exciting". In keeping with this wish, he ignored the musical style of the original Far Cry. Compared to other projects he had worked on, there were no equivalent games and soundtracks to reference for Far Cry 2, so the music team were left to make their own judgements about the sound balance. Their early prototypes were rejected by Ubisoft for being bombastic and overly loud, so Canham shifted the score to focus on ambience. Creating the music required balancing the game's two conflicting elements as an action-based shooter with an emotional sombre narrative. He created a less bombastic score than other shooters of the time, using a string sextet supported by African percussion instruments; the latter included djembes, udus and kalimbas. Based on their research, the team focused on the Ashiko along with Kundabigoya and Coucou rhythms as the core of the game's soundtrack.

The music was recorded using a small ensemble of live players, again going against conventions of the time which relied on large orchestras or electronic and synthetic soundtracks. The cuing and mixing done live during recording using an MPC 2000. The string music was recorded at Abbey Road Studios. A notable contributor to the soundtrack is Senegalese singer Baaba Maal, who recorded both full vocals and tribal chant-like elements to incorporate into the soundtrack. He visited Abbey Road, received a four-hour "crash course" on the game's music, and impressed Canham with his performance as their previous contact had been remote and sporadic due to Maal's touring commitments. The main theme incorporated both Maal and the sextet. Only three percussion tracks were recorded at any one time, giving them time and leeway to separate and mix the different tracks. Final mastering was done at Abby Roads.

A digital soundtrack album was published by Ubisoft through iTunes on October 21, 2008. As part of the game's promotion, another album titled African Swim was released on October 20 as a free download by Adult Swim. A co-production by Ubisoft and Adult Swim, the album focused exclusively on music by South African musicians including Gumshev and Maggz. The album also included behind-the-scenes footage of the game's production.

Release
The existence of Far Cry 2 was first hinted in September 2006 through a leak of screenshots, artwork and video footage of several in-production titles. It was officially announced for PC in July 2007, though it was hinted through online store listings before that. The console versions were announced in January 2008. The game's complexity made creating a commercial game demo impractical, so the team instead focused that effort into further polishing the final product. For piracy protection, the Windows version made use of SecuROM digital rights management, with limited version installs across up to three devices with repeated installs possible provided earlier versions were removed. The game was compatible with the amBX peripheral designed by Philips, allowing greater immersion into the game's world through light and vibrations. Production was completed on October 14, 2008, when Ubisoft Montreal declared the game had gone gold.