[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gowind-class design

The Gowind design is a family of steel monohull frigates, corvettes  and offshore patrol vessels developed since 2006 by France's Naval Group, formerly known as DCNS, to conduct missions in the littoral zone such as anti-submarine warfare (ASW). The Gowind family includes vessels with lengths from  and displacement from 1,000 tons to 3,100 tons.

The Gowind design can deploy unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), unmanned surface vehicles (USVs) and underwater unmanned vehicles (UUVs). An aft deck has been provided allowing for a 10-ton class helicopter or UAV operations.

The platform's weapon system consists of a multi-functional radar and VL MICA surface-to-air missiles (SAM). It is armed with Exocet anti-ship missiles. The propulsion system is based on Combined Diesel and Diesel (CODAD) and includes water-jets for improved maneuverability in shallow waters and high-speed performance. There is no funnel on these ships. The radar and other sensors are mounted on a single central mast thus allowing 360-degree view. Naval Group offers two variants of the design: Gowind 1000 and Gowind 2500 while Malaysia with the assistance of Naval Group locally developed the Gowind 3100.

As of October 2021, the Greek government is in discussions with Naval Group about the acquisition of up to seven Gowind corvettes with three of them being built in Greece.

Product reorganisation 

The Gowind class originally consisted of offshore patrol vessels (OPVs) but after a rearrangement of products Naval Group decided to remove the OPV from the Gowind class and develop the OPVs as a class of their own with  top of the range. To do so it formed the Kership joint venture with the Piriou shipyard in Concarneau, Brittany in May 2013 to build and market lightly armed and armoured OPVs for customs, fishing and other home security missions. Naval Group said this would enable it to concentrate on "developing relations" with clients seeking heavily armed and armoured warships while Kership handles the more civilian-standard OPVs.

Class specifications

Gowind 1000 
The Gowind 1000 is a 1,000-ton corvette designed for protection, escort and embargo naval missions in a littoral environment. The Gowind 1000 can also perform presence, surveillance, intelligence and policing missions. It is armed with:
 1 x OTO Melara 76 mm main gun
 2 x Nexter Narwhal 20 mm cannon
 8 x VLS for MBDA VL MICA surface-to-air missiles
 4 x MBDA MM40 Exocet anti-ship missile launchers

Sensors:
Integrated mast to integrate most sensors in a low observable design

Gowind 2500 
The Gowind 2500 multi-mission corvette is designed for surveillance, surface and subsurface combat, protection and escort naval missions. It can also perform presence, maritime surveillance and policing missions against trafficking and piracy.

The Gowind 2500 capitalizes on Naval Group's expertise in vessel stealth.
The vessel is equipped with facilities for an embarked helicopter and drones. It is armed with:
 1 × OTO Melara 76 mm main gun
 2 × Nexter Narwhal 20 mm cannon
 16 × VLS for MBDA VL MICA surface-to-air missiles
 8 × MBDA MM40 Exocet anti-ship missile launchers
 2 × triple torpedo launchers

Electronic warfare & decoys for Egypt's Gowind 2500:
 Vigile 200 Tactical R-ESM System
 Altesse Naval C-ESM
 Sylena MK2 decoy launcher system

Gowind 3100 
The Gowind 3100 is a frigate with the displacement of 3,100 tons and length of . It is armed with:
 1 × Bofors 57 mm main gun
 2 × MSI DS30M 30 mm cannon
 16 × VLS for MBDA VL MICA surface-to-air missiles 
 8 × Naval Strike Missile anti-ship missile launchers
 2 × triple torpedo launcher

Operators

Egypt

In 2014, Egypt signed a €1bn contract with Naval Group to buy four Gowind 2,500-ton corvettes with an option for two more. Separately, MBDA negotiated a contract to equip the ships with MICA vertical launch air-defense missiles and MM40 Block 3 Exocet anti-ship missiles, together worth an additional 400 million euros, while Naval Group negotiated a 100–200 million euro contract for torpedoes. Three of the corvettes are to be built locally by Alexandria Shipyard within a technology transfer agreement. It was apparently President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi who decided these were the ships he wanted rather than the Meko A200 being offered by German group ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems (TKMS) or the Sigma corvette proposed by Damen of the Netherlands. Egypt is in talks with France to acquire another two Gowind corvettes which, if ordered, would be produced by France in Lorient.