[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1932 Maccabiah Games

alone won by Harry Schneider, a former New York University football and track player, breaking the previous Olympic record in discus throw. In all three events he beat Dave Adelman, former Georgetown University athlete, who took three second places.

Sports 

Events in the first Maccabiah included:

The first Maccabiah hosted a large number of competitions despite the large of venues and equipments. In 1932 Tel Aviv still did not have any swimming pools; the swimming competitions and the water polo games at took place in the Port of Haifa in improvised lanes. Spectators watched the swimming competitions from floating rafts on the water. There was no serviceable gymnastic hall; competitions were held on a wooden platform in Rina Garden located on Shalom Aleichem Street in Tel Aviv. The 5,000 and 10,000 meter races took place on the streets of Tel Aviv - a race that took place on mostly unpaved and sandy roads.

Participating communities

390 athletes from 27 countries participated (not all participated in the games), including over 69 Jewish athletes from Arab countries such as Syria, Lebanon and Egypt - including number of Muslim boxers from Egypt participated. A number of individual athletes from "B'nai B'rith" also participated (representing no specific country). Also participating were official British soldiers and policemen. In the first two Maccabiot, only official members of Maccabi were allowed to participate.

The number in parentheses indicates the number of athletes from that delegation.

 
 
 
 
 
  Canada
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Germany
 
 
 
  Lebanon
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  (15)

Medal count

Poland led the scoreboard, with 368 points.  The United States was second, with 285 points, and Austria was third, with 254 points, followed by fourth-place Eretz Yisrael with 222 points. Next were fifth place Czechoslovakia (210 points), sixth place Egypt (122 points), seventh place Germany (120 points), eighth place Denmark (44 points), ninth place Great Britain (20 points), tenth place Romania (14 points), 11th place Yugoslavia (9 points), 12th place Syria (6 points), and 13th place Greece (5 points).

References

Maccabiah Games
Maccabiah Games
Maccabiah Games
March 1932 sports events
April 1932 sports events
20th century in Tel Aviv