[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Scar (Fullmetal Alchemist)

, also known as , is a fictional character from the Fullmetal Alchemist manga series and its adaptations created by Hiromu Arakawa. Scar is introduced as a villain who targets alchemists working for the state military from the fictional country of Amestris. Scar hails from the region of Ishval whose people were almost exterminated in a previous civil war against the state military, most notably their alchemists. His alias is derived from the prominent X-shaped scar that decorates his brow with his birth name being unknown. As the series continues, Scar's backstory is further explored and he questions his motives, eventually joining the side of the Amestrian State military, assisting in an armed coup against the government in order to defeat the organization secretly responsible for the Ishvalan Civil War.

Scar was created by Arakawa in order to represent the continuous encounter that happened between people from Hokkaido and the Ainu. Therefore, she regards Scar as a complex character as his hatred spanned from the Ishval's civil war. Similarly, his character was received positively by publications from manga and anime, who find him as an atypical villain in the series.

Creation and concept
The major conflict between Scar and the State Alchemists is based on Hiromu Arakawa's own background when she lived in Hokkaido, as her ancestors conquered the land belonging to the Ainu people, but some of them were Ainu themselves. This is represented in Scar's revenge against State Alchemists as he ironically uses alchemy like them in order to kill them despite being a taboo for his religion. As a result, Arakawa comments that rather than being a common "evil antagonist", Scar's character resulted from several catastrophes that occurred in the Ishvalan Civil War and therefore, such a label should be avoided. When illustrating characters, Arakawa states that Scar became one of the easiest ones to design.

Appearances

In Fullmetal Alchemist

Scar is introduced in the series as a serial killer who targets alchemists working for the state military from the country of Amestris in revenge for their involvement in the Ishvalan civil war, which caused the death of several of his comrades. During this war, a state alchemist named Solf J. Kimblee attacked Scar and his friends and family. With the last of his strength, Scar's brother attached his own arm, through means of alchemy, to Scar. This gives Scar the ability to use alchemy despite being a taboo for his people's religion, as Ishvalans believe that only God has the right to create. However, instead of fully transmuting what he comes in contact with, he simply decomposes it into individual elements, completely obliterating the object. When Scar awakens after the incident and discovers his brother's arm attached to his own, he kills the doctors treating him, Winry Rockbell's parents, in a blind rage. Using his new ability, Scar tries to kill the state alchemist Edward Elric in Eastern Headquarters, but escapes upon being ambushed by the military. Knowing that the Elric brothers are headed to the first branch library, he goes there to ambush them, but he is found by creatures known as the homunculi. Retreating from them, Scar then joins with the former military lieutenant Yoki and a young immigrant named May Chang to go to Central City to continue his revenge. He finds the Elric brothers, unaware that it is part of their plot to lure out the homunculi. During this encounter, Edward reveals Scar's involvement in the deaths of Winry's parents, unaware that Winry is present at the time, and which Scar confirms. When Edward and his brother Alphonse try to beat him while capturing a homunculus, Scar is saved by May. He agrees to help May find her pet panda in thanks for saving him. Scar and May end up stumbling upon the Elrics in the homunculi's lair, where Edward reveals the fact that they sparked the Ishbal rebellion. As he escapes, he finds Dr. Tim Marcoh, a state alchemist who participated in the Ishbalan war, who asks Scar to kill him as he is being used by the homunculi. Scar agrees to fulfill Marcoh's wish in return for the true story behind the Ishbal Massacre. After learning the truth behind his brother's research involving alchemy, Scar decides to spare Marcoh's life to help him learn more. Scar's group makes their way to the North where the secrets of his brother's research are hidden.