[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Highway 1 (Israel–Palestine)

eparate grade access to Yigael Yadin Interchange and the northern and eastern continuation of Highway 1. Passing through Emek HaArazim (Valley of Cedars), it includes two 400-meter tunnels (one for eastbound traffic and one for westbound), four bridges over the Sorek stream and two new interchanges.

While the highway was scheduled for completion in early 2005, work was slowed to a near halt between 2003 and 2006, and completion was postponed for over two years. The opening, planned for May 21, 2007, was postponed another two months due to Moriah's failure to complete the required environmental mitigation. Permission to open the road was granted on condition that the company and Jerusalem municipality guarantee completion of environmental mitigation after the opening. Road 9 opened on July 25, 2007 and constitutes part of Highway 1.

In October, 2014, Jerusalem Road 9 was officially renamed "Derech Yitzhak Shamir" after Israel's 7th Prime Minister.

Development plans
Israel Railways has built a new high-speed rail line between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. This line crosses the highway at three points: over a viaduct east of Ben Gurion Airport, in a tunnel at Anava Interchange and another tunnel at the western entrance to Jerusalem.

In late 2021, construction began on a new interchange that will provide additional access to Ben Gurion Airport from Highway 1. It will significantly reduce the distance vehicles must travel to access the airport's main terminal from the direction of Tel Aviv and other points north and west of the airport.

A plan to add lanes and reconfigure the highway between Tel Aviv and the Shapirim interchange will be carried out as part of the four-tracking project of the Tel Aviv-Lod railway expected to take place in the mid-2020s decade.

An interchange at Ramat Shlomo is currently under construction. Once completed, it will replace the current signalized intersection. It is also designed to provide an additional route to the Har Hotzvim High-Tech area. Moriya is also planning to build a  tunnel at Sha'ar Mizrah Junction. This tunnel will allow east-west traffic to bypass the current signalized intersections and provide direct access to Jerusalem's northeastern neighbourhoods. Once these two projects are completed, there will be only one at-grade intersection left along the highway between Tel Aviv and Adummim, at Isawiya.

Highway 16
Just as Jerusalem Road 9 provided traffic relief to motorists headed to northern and eastern Jerusalem by bypassing the main western entrance to the city, an additional project to alleviate the bottleneck in the western entrance consists of the construction of Highway 16. This would create another entrance to Jerusalem and provide direct access to central and southern Jerusalem from the west. The planned road would connect Highway 1 at the new Motza Interchange to Jerusalem's Highway 50 (Begin Boulevard) at Givat Mordechai Interchange. The road would travel mostly through a series of tunnels under the west Jerusalem neighbourhoods of Har Nof and Yefeh Nof and the parking lots of Shaare Zedek Medical Center with an intermediate Nahal Revida Interchange leading to Givat Shaul. The project will cost approximately NIS 1.5 billion and was originally expected to be completed by the end of 2018. The plan had to pass stiff resistance on ecological grounds due to the above ground section at Nahal Revida located in the Jerusalem Forest. After many delays, the contract for construction was finally awarded in August 2018, with construction expected to take place from 2019 through 2023.

Interchanges

Hazardous road
28.5 km of highway 1 had been declared as a red road by the Israeli police in 2015.

References

External links
 Highway 9 on Moriah website 

1
1