[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Timeline of the nuclear program of Iran

ale. Some officials said 3,000 uranium gas enrichment centrifuges were running at the Natanz plant in central Iran.

June 7, 2007: *Head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohammad ElBaradei was quoted by the BBC as warning against the views of "new crazies who say 'let's go and bomb Iran'".

June 30, 2007: U.S. Congressional Representatives Mark S. Kirk and Robert E. Andrews proposed a bill to sanction against any company or individual that provides Iran with refined petroleum products. The plan is to pressure Iran over its nuclear program from December 31, 2007.

December 3, 2007: The U.S. Intelligence Community released a National Intelligence Estimate concluding that Iran "halted its nuclear weapons program" in 2003, but "is keeping open the option to develop nuclear weapons."

December 11, 2007: British spy chiefs have grave doubts that Iran has mothballed its nuclear weapons program, as a US intelligence report claimed last week, and believe the CIA has been hoodwinked by Tehran.

December 16, 2007: Iran's president said on Sunday the publication of a U.S. intelligence report saying Iran had halted a nuclear weapons program in 2003 amounted to a "declaration of surrender" by Washington in its row with Tehran.

2008
March 4, 2008: The UN Security Council adopts Resolution 1803 -  the third sanction resolution on Iran with a 14–0 vote (Indonesia abstained).  The resolution extends financial sanctions to additional banks, extends travel bans to additional persons and bars exports to Iran of nuclear- and missile-related dual-use items.
March 24, 2008: The last shipment of fuel and equipment arrives at the Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant.
May 16, 2008: Iran offers proposed package to the UN, UN Security Council, Group of G+1 and submitted to Russia and China.

2009
 February 17: In Paris, International Atomic Energy Agency Director-General Mohamed ElBaradei said that Iran is still not helping United Nations nuclear inspectors find out whether it worked on developing an atom bomb in the past but Tehran has slowed its expansion of a key nuclear facility. "They haven't really been adding centrifuges, which is a good thing," ElBaradei said at a think-tank in Paris, adding: "Our assessment is that it's a political decision." 
 June 5: IAEA releases report on Iran's compliance with the NPT. The IAEA claims the following: Access not granted for a recent inspection on May 19; access not granted since August 2008 to heavy water reactor at Arak; and, IAEA not given design information for reactor at Darkhovin. The IAEA further reports that Iran has not implemented the Additional Protocol (a requirement of UN Security Council Resolution 1737) and has not cooperated in providing information which remains unclear or missing. 
 June 19: El Baradei stated he had a "gut feeling that Iran definitely would like to have the technology" enabling it to possess nuclear weapons. He told the BBC that Iran wants to "send a message" to its neighbors and the rest of the world: "Don't mess" with Iran and "we can have nuclear weapons if we want to."  Asked about voices in Israel who back a military strike against Iran to stop it from getting a nuclear weapon, El Baradei reiterated his opposition, saying "military action" would turn the region "into a ball of fire." 
 July 8–10: On the 35th G8 summit, US president Obama said Iran will have to September (at the G20 meeting) to show some improvements on the negotiations about Iran's nuclear program, or else "face consequences". French president Nicolas Sarkozy said G8 are united on the issue with Iran, stating that patience with Iran was running thin: "For the past 6 years we have extended our hand saying stop your nuclear armament program... Do they want discussions or don't they want them? If they don't, there will be sanctions" he told reporters. Sarkozy also stated that Israel attacking Iran, would be an absolute catastrophe. "Israel should know that it is not alone and should follow what is going on calmly," he said, adding that he had not received any assurances that Israel would hold off on any action ahead of the September deadline. 
 July 25: Mohammad Ali Jafari, Iran's Revolutionary Guards commander-in-chief, said that if Israel attacked Iran, Iran would strike Israel's nuclear facilities with their missiles: "Our missile capability puts all of the Zionist regime (Israel) within Iran's reach to attack," Jafari said. 
 August 7: US Air Force General Charles Wald said that a devastating US military strike against Iran's nuclear and military facilities "is a technically feasible and credible option".

2010
 May 17: Iran, Turkey and Brazil announced a deal on procedures for a nuclear fuel swap aimed at easing concerns over Tehran's nuclear program.
 August 21: Iran acquires nuclear fuel rods from Russia