[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mass media in Mali

n is around 1000.

Radio 

Office de Radiodiffusion Télévision du Mali (ORTM) is the national broadcasting entity. It offers two radio stations, a national format radio station and Station 2 created in 1993 and transmitting on FM.

Around 150 private radios stations exist, accessible on the FM band.

The rural radio network has grown rapidly.  Access to information in local languages has a considerable impact for the people in terms of quality of life and the implications for the management of local affairs affecting their communities. More and more radio stations have begun broadcasting on the Internet. The challenge is the economic return needed to sustain these media centers and the costs of technical maintenance services for radio stations themselves. Through the network of the Union of Free Radio and Television of Mali (URTEL) radios can be connected together to cover major events such as football or track the 1997 legislative elections.

Radio stations include:

 Office de Radiodiffusion Television du Mali (ORTM) (public network of national and regional stations)
 Radio Bamakan (community station, Bamako)
 Radio Benkan (Bamako)
 Radio Canal 2000 (Bamako)
 Radio Frequence 3 (FR3) (commercial, Bamako)
 Radio Guintan (Bamako)
 Radio Kaira (Bamako)
 Radio Kledu (commercial, Bamako)
 Radio Liberte (commercial, Bamako)
 Radio Patriote (commercial, Bamako)
 Radio Rurale (network of community stations)
 Radio Tabale (Bamako)
 Voix du Coran (Islamic station, Bamako)

The president of URTEL, Moussa Keïta, recalls that "We like to say that the 'Office de Radiodiffusion Télévision du Mali (ORTM) is the Voice of Mali and the local radio stations are the Voice of Malians."

Radio France internationale (RFI) is especially popular with listeners. Its news programs are broadcast by many local radio stations. BBC and Voice of America are also available in French in partnership with local radio stations.

It is also possible to listen to French radio through a subscription with French-owned CanalSat Horizons.

Television 

The Office de Radiodiffusion Télévision du Mali (ORTM) operates a national public television channel: ORTM Télévision nationale. Since being introduced in February 2007, this channel can also be received in Europe via satellite W3A of Eutelsat, positioned at 7 degrees east.

TV5MONDE, the French channel broadcasting to the countries of la francophonie (French-speaking countries worldwide) is transmitted to satellite and in hertz almost everywhere in Mali. It is relatively accessible with a simple antenna.

A new channel was recently introduced in Bamako: "Africable, la chaîne du continent".

Two Mali businesses are proposing a selection of channels through MMDS reception, with channel offerings specializing in formats such as sports, children's programming, news, movies, and so on, through monthly subscription.

It is also possible to subscribe to CanalSat Horizons through live satellite reception (RDS, different from MMDS). This way it is possible to watch a large number of channels from Africa as well as Europe, in English and in Arabic.

Television stations include:
 Office de la Radiodiffusion Television du Mali (ORTM) - public, programmes in French and local vernacular languages
 Multi Canal stations (multichannel operator)
 Tele-Kledu stations (multichannel operator)

Internet 

Internet services underwent much testing before being introduced to Mali in 1997. There are five Internet service providers, who operate through the intermediation of the SOTELMA (société des télécommunications du Mali). The Internet infrastructure remains costly and difficult to maintain. The dominant private telecommunications company is Ikatel (called Orange).  Its services include Live Box and 3g plus.
Since the beginning of 2011, rival company Malitél was launched to be price competitive.

Bamako hosted an international conference "Bamako 2000 : les passerelles du développement" on information technology, during which the former president of the republic of Mali, Alpha Oumar Konaré, promoted Internet access to all communities in Mali. Mali also presided over preparations for the Sommet de la Société de l'Information.

A number of cybercafés, and telecommunications centres (public, community or privately owned) have emerged since 1997 in the capitol Bamako. Many have had to close their doors due to difficulties in management and high fixed costs for network connections. Today, those that are surviving are those that support or develop a certain critical mass (access to a large number of computers, a regular customer base) and that offer complementary activities like training or equipment sales.