[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Gerak Khas (Malaysian Army unit)

as a Commando regiment. Blue symbolises the close relationship between Gerak Khas with 40 Commando, Royal Marines. The Tiger denotes bravery, signifying ferocity and might. The Commando knife defines the commando status of the Regiment – only commandos use the commando knife.

Uniforms and insignia

The Gerak Khas wears the same combat uniforms as the rest of the Malaysian Army, but they are distinguished by their green beret with GERAKHAS insignia, blue lanyard rope on their right shoulder (inspired by 40 Commando, Royal Marines), Fairbairn–Sykes fighting knife (commando dagger), highly folded sleeves, and GERAKHAS shoulder tab.

Green beret
Gerak Khas commandos wear the green beret, a common symbol among the commando and special forces communities. The green beret is worn with the 'Harimau Berjuang' cap badge. The Gerak Khas' beret-wearing style is its cap badge worn on the left and facing side. The Gerak Khas inherited this style from the Royal Marines Snipers during the Communist insurgency in Malaysia. Today, this beret-wearing style is still used by British Armed Forces units, most notably the 45 Commando of Royal Marines and the Parachute Regiment.

Light blue lanyard
Gerak Khas commandos wear a light blue lanyard, an honour bestowed upon them by their founders and instructors, the 40 Commando of Royal Marines. 40 Commando RM was instrumental in training the first members of the Malaysian Special Service Unit in 1965. In Malaysia, all soldiers who have completed basic commando training at the Special Warfare Training Centre are awarded a light blue lanyard.

 The units' flash and the shoulder tab 
Members of the 21st Special Service Group also have a GERAKHAS shoulder tab on their left sleeve.
Blue
The blue colour symbolises close relationship between the Malaysian Special Service Group with 40 Commando, Royal Marine (British). The formation of Malaysian Special Service Group (MSSG) was initiated by 40 Commando RM which was also responsible for the training and imparting of specialised skills to these selected personnel. Personnel of 40 Commando RM and Gerak Khas Units wear the light blue lanyards.

Green
All qualified personnel of Special Forces are awarded the green berets. Green beret is also a commonly worn headgear of the other Special Forces in the world. The green colour also symbolises Islam – the official religion of Malaysia.

Tiger
Tiger denotes bravery. The mean and unwaning features of the tiger portrays ferocity and might. These characteristics are to be possessed and portrayed by personnel of the Special Forces.

Dagger
The dagger symbolises the essence of decisiveness, steadfastness and inherent ability of rationalisation possessed by the personnel of the Special Forces. The unsheathed dagger portray the status of combat readiness of the Special Forces Units which are ever ready for all eventualities at all times. Its vertical alignment denotes the spirit and aspiration of the Special Forces personnel.

Cepat dan Cergas
The slogan 'Cepat Dan Cergas' () is chosen in accordance with the role and tasks of the special forces. Its personnel must be efficient, nimble and brave

 Ranks 
Gerak Khas commandos wears a distinctive green bar chevron on their No. 5 Uniform (combat uniform) for other ranks () rather than the black bar chevron worn by other units in the Malaysian Army.

 Sleeves with a high fold 
Gerak Khas commandos distinguished themselves from other units by folding their combat uniforms in a distinctive manner. This style, also known as Lipatan Gaya Samseng in Malay, is characterised by higher-folded sleeves that expose the un-camouflage inside of the uniform and the wearer's biceps. This is in contrast to the Malaysian Army's formal style, in which the sleeve is folded in such a way that the camouflage is visible. Since the Communist insurgency (1968–1989), the Gerak Khas have inherited this traditions from the Royal Marines No. 3B Dress (Summer dress) and Special Air Service.

 Commando dagger 
As a symbol of graduation, all early Gerak Khas commandos who have completed the Royal Marines' basic commando course are given a Fairbairn–Sykes fighting knife. The Gerak Khas has carried on this tradition, and today all graduates of the Special Warfare Training Centre are given a Fairbairn–Sykes fighting knife in addition to the green beret and light blue lanyard. During parades, the commando dagger has become a part of the military attire for the 21st Special Service Group and is worn on the left side of the belt.

 Equipment 
As an elite unit, there is a broad range of various weapons used by the 21 GGK. The known weapons used by the unit, include handguns, shotguns, submachine guns, assault rifles, machineguns, sniper rifles, grenade launchers and anti-tanks, are:

Deployments/Missions
Communist Insurgency 1966–1990
During the communist insurgency, Regiment Gerak Khas commandos fought in the Malaysian jungles.