[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 96]
# Politics — Aristotle

d another
see it executed: as, for instance, let the magistrates who have the care
of the public buildings execute the sentence which the inspectors of
the markets have passed, and the like in other cases: for by so much the
less odium attends those who carry the laws into execution, by so much
the easier will they be properly put in force: therefore for the same
persons to pass the sentence and to execute it will subject them to
general hatred; and if they pass it upon all, they will be considered
as the enemies of all. Thus one person has often the custody of the
prisoner's body, while another sees the sentence against him executed,
as the eleven did at Athens: for which reason it is prudent to separate
these offices, and to give great attention thereunto as equally
necessary with anything we have already mentioned; for it will certainly
happen that men of character will decline accepting this office, and
worthless persons cannot properly be entrusted with it, as having
themselves rather an occasion for a guard than being qualified to guard
others. This, therefore, ought by no means to be a separate office from
others; nor should it be continually allotted to any individuals, but
the young men; where there is a city-guard, the youths ought in turns
to take these offices upon them. These, then, as the most necessary
magistrates, ought to be first mentioned: next to these are others no
less necessary, but of much higher rank, for they ought to be men of
great skill and fidelity. These are they who have the guard of the city,
and provide everything that is necessary for war; whose business it is,
both in war and peace, to defend the walls and the gates, and to take
care to muster and marshal the citizens. Over all these there are
sometimes more officers, sometimes fewer: thus in little cities there is
only one whom they call either general or polemarch; but where there are
horse and light-armed troops, and bowmen, and sailors, they sometimes
put distinct commanders over each of these; who again have others under
them, according to their different divisions; all of which join together
to make one military body: and thus much for this department. Since some
of the magistrates, if not all, have business with the public money,
it is necessary that there should be other officers, whose employment
should be nothing else than to take an account of what they have, and
correct any mismanagement therein. But besides all these magistrates
there is one who is supreme over them all, who very often has in his own
power the disposal of the public revenue and taxes; who presides over
the people when the supreme power is in them; for there must be some
magistrate who has a power to summon them together, and to preside as
head of the state. These are sometimes called preadvisers; but where
there are many, more properly a council. These are nearly the civil
magistrates which are requisite to a government: but there are other
persons whose business is confined to religion; as the priests, and
those who are to take care of the temples, that they are kept in proper
repair, or, if they fall down, that they may be rebuilt; and whatever
else belongs to public worship. This charge is sometimes entrusted to
one person, as in very small cities: in others it is delegated to many,
and these distinct from the priesthood, as the builders or keepers of
holy places, and officers of the sacred revenue. Next to these are
those who are appointed to have the general care of all those public
sacrifices to the tutelar god of the state, which the laws do not
entrust to the priests: and these in different states have different
appellations. To enumerate in few words the different departments of
all those magistrates who are necessary: these are either religion,
war, taxes, expenditures, markets, public buildings, harbours, highways.
Belonging to the courts of justice there are scribes to enroll private
contracts; and there must also be guards set over the prisoners, others
to see the law is executed, council on either side, and also others to
watch over the conduct of those who are to decide the causes. Amongst
the magistrates also may finally be reckoned those who are to give their
advice in public affairs. But separate states, who are peculiarly happy
and have leisure to attend to more minute particulars, and are very
attentive to good order, require particular magistrates for themselves;
such as those who have the government of the women; who are to see the
laws are executed; who take care of the boys and preside over their
education. To these may be added those who have the care of their
gymnastic exercises, [1323a] their theatres, and every other public
spectacle which there may happen to be. Some of these, however, are not
of general use; as the governors of the women: for the poor are obliged
to employ their wives and children in servile offices for want of
slaves. As ther