[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Europa Nostra

his awards scheme aims to promote high standards and high-quality skills in conservation practice and to stimulate trans-frontier exchange in heritage protection. By spreading the "Power of Example", the awards also aim to encourage further efforts and projects related to heritage throughout Europe.

Europa Nostra is the main partner of "The Best in Heritage", an annual presentation of awarded museum, heritage, and conservation projects, which takes place in the second part of September in the world heritage town of Dubrovnik (Croatia).

Heritage in Danger

Europa Nostra supports national and international campaigns for the preservation and rescue of Europe's heritage which is in danger. In January 2013, with the European Investment Bank Group, represented by the EIB Institute, it launched  the 7 Most Endangered Programme, aiming to identify endangered monuments and sites in Europe and to mobilize public and private partners at the local, national, and European levels, to find a future for those sites, working as a catalyst for action. The 7 Most Endangered sites and monuments for 2013 were selected from a shortlist of 14 prepared by an international panel that reviewed 40 nominations from member organizations from 21 countries.

In recent years, Europa Nostra has raised its voice to save endangered historic monuments, sites or landscapes in Europe, including:

 The area of Rosia Montana (Transylvania, Romania) whose heritage and environment is threatened by a proposed open-cast gold mine;
 The Roman archaeological site of Allianoi (Turkey) threatened by the construction of an irrigation dam (today, the site has disappeared under water);
 Mont Saint-Michel (Normandy, France) threatened by the proposed construction of giant wind turbines having a negative visual impact on the cultural landscape surrounding the Mont;
 Italian historic cities, mainly in the Emilia Romagna region, affected by the earthquakes in May 2012;
 The Ancient City of l'Aquila and the surrounding distinctive villages (Abruzzo Region, Italy) threatened by various degrees of destruction or damage caused by the April 2009 earthquake; 
 The Ancient City of Famagusta (Cyprus) threatened by neglect caused by on-going political conflict; 
 The remains of the Mediaeval Town Hall of Berlin (Germany) as well as the city's historic gas lanterns both threatened by new infrastructure works; 
 The Piazza Sant'Ambrogio in Milan (Lombardy, Italy) threatened by the proposed construction of an underground car-park;
 The ancient Visoki Dečani monastery in Dečani (Republic of Kosovo) threatened by neglect and attack caused by on-going political conflict.

Pan-European Network
Europa Nostra serves as a platform for exchange for those concerned with heritage conservation, education, research, communication and interpretation. It enables heritage professionals, volunteers and supporters from all over Europe and beyond to meet, debate and inspire each other. It also engages with a wider range of stakeholders, be they policy makers, other European or international networks related to heritage, students and young heritage professionals or the public at large. Europa Nostra is a partner of Wiki Loves Monuments, the Wikipedia photo contest around cultural heritage.

Europa Nostra organises an annual European Heritage Congress, including a public Forum on various heritage subjects that are of relevance to the whole of Europe. It also holds smaller-scale national, regional and local meetings and debates with heritage NGOs in different parts of Europe. In addition to this, Europa Nostra's Scientific Council organises an annual Colloquium to promote and coordinate the scientific study of ancient structures and fortified buildings in Europe.

Publications
Europa Nostra publishes an annual magazine restyled in 2010 with the name "Heritage in Motion" . This magazine contains articles related to cultural heritage actors and initiatives in the country or the city which hosts the annual congress of Europa Nostra. Its previous name was "European Cultural Heritage Review" .

Europa Nostra's Scientific Council has also published a total of 64 volumes of its "Scientific Bulletin".

Membership
Europa Nostra is a non-profit organisation, which is financially supported by membership fees and donations, by the European Commission and other public bodies and private supporters and sponsors.