[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Torture in the United States

sufficient to demonstrate that it was more likely than not that J-E would be subjected to torture upon his detention. There was no evidence that the torture was persistent or widespread; or that the Haitian government used torture as a policy; or that there was no meaningful international oversight.

The Board accordingly held—in yet another 7-6 opinion with substantial dissenting opinions—that J-E had failed to carry his burden of showing that the admitted mistreatment was so pervasive that it therefore was more likely than not that he would be tortured in a Haitian jail, as opposed to being subjected to cruel and inhuman acts that, while despicable, were less than torture within the meaning of the applicable law. Most of the actions reported against Haiti, the Board decided, were sanctioned under Article 16 the convention as acts that were "cruel and inhuman" and that State Parties were obliged to correct, but nevertheless did not constitute "torture" within the meaning of Article 1 of the convention.

J-E's appeal to the BIA was therefore dismissed and the deportation order remained in effect.

See also 
 Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse
 At the Center of the Storm book by former CIA head George Tenet
 Human Rights Record of the United States
 International humanitarian law
 Lexical definition
 Precising definition
 Torture Memos (2002), drafted by John Yoo
 Universal jurisdiction
 Use of torture since 1948
 Water cure (torture)#Philippine-American War
Other human rights issues in the United States
 Tramp chair, 19th-century torture device used by American police
 United States war crimes
 United States and state terrorism
 United States and state-sponsored terrorism
 Unethical human experimentation in the United States

Notes 
Footnotes

References 

 Yee, Sienho (2004). International crime and punishment: selected issues', University Press of America,

Further reading 
 W. Fitzhugh Brundage, Civilizing Torture: An American Tradition. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2018.

 Alfred W. McCoy, A Question of Torture: CIA Interrogation, From the Cold War to the War on Terror, Henry Holt, 2006.
 Cecilia Menjívar and Néstor Rodríguez, When States Kill: Latin America, the U.S., and Technologies of Terror. Austin, TX: University of Texas Press, 2009.
 Kristian Williams, American Methods: Torture and the Logic of Domination. Boston: South End Press, 2006.
 US Senate Report on CIA Detention and Interrogation Program, 2014

External links 
 Four memos on torture, released April 16, 2009, in response to a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit
 Senate Armed Forces Committee Report on Torture, released April 22, 2009
 Periodic reports of the United States to the Committee Against Torture (CAT)
 Warrant to Torture?: A Critique of Dershowitz and Levinson, ACDIS Occasional Paper by Jonathan Allen, published by the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security (ACDIS), University of Illinois, 2005
  Convention Status
 Newsweek: Inspector General Report Reveals CIA Conducted Mock Executions - video report by Democracy Now!
 'The Past is a Foreign Country?' Obama and the Torture Files by Alexandra Barahona de Brito, Opinion, May 2009 European Union Institute for Security Studies
 Human Rights First; Tortured Justice: Using Coerced Evidence to Prosecute Terrorist Suspects (2008)
 Human Rights First; Leave No Marks: Enhanced Interrogation Techniques and the Risk of Criminality

 
Crime in the United States
Political history of the United States
Violence in the United States