[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 30]
# Constructive set theory

cal set theory like  proves there exists such a number.

Strong Collection 
Having discussed all the weakened forms of the classical set theory axioms, Replacement and Exponentiation can be further strengthened without losing a type theoretical interpretation, and in a way that is not going beyond .

So firstly, one may reflect upon the strength of the axiom of replacement, also in the context of the classical set theory. For any set  and any natural , there exists the product  recursively given by , which have ever deeper rank. Induction for unbound predicates proves that these sets exist for all of the infinitely many naturals. Replacement "for " now moreover states that this infinite class of products can be turned into the infinite set, . This is also not a subset of any previously established set.

Going beyond those axioms also seen in Myhill's typed approach, consider the discussed constructive theory with Exponentiation and Induction, but now strengthened by the collection schema. In  it is equivalent to Replacement, unless the powerset axiom is dropped. In the current context the strong axiom presented supersedes Replacement, due to not requiring the binary relation definition to be functional, but possibly multi-valued.

In words, for every total relation, there exists an image set  such that the relation is total in both directions. Expressing this via a raw first-order formulation leads to a somewhat repetitive format. The antecedent states that one considers relation  between sets  and  that are total over a certain domain set , that is,  has at least one "image value"  for every element  in the domain. This is more general than an inhabitance condition  in a set theoretical choice axiom, but also more general than the condition of Replacement, which demands unique existence . In the consequent, firstly, the axioms states that then there exists a set  which contains at least one "image" value  under , for every element of the domain. Secondly, in this axioms formulation it then moreover states that only such images  are elements of that new codomain set . It is guaranteeing that  does not overshoot the codomain of  and thus the axiom is also expressing some power akin to a Separation procedure. The principle may be used in the constructive study of larger sets beyond the everyday need of analysis.

Metalogic
This theory without , without unbounded separation and without "naive" Power set enjoys various nice properties. For example, as opposed to  with its subset collection schema below, it has the existence property.

Constructive Zermelo–Fraenkel

Binary refinement
The so called binary refinement axiom says that for any  there exists a set  such that for any covering , the set  holds two subsets  and  that also do this covering job, . It is a weakest form of the powerset axiom and at the core of some important mathematical proofs.
Fullness below, for relations between the set  and the finite , implies that this is indeed possible.

Taking another step back,  plus Recursion and plus Binary refinement already proves that there exists an Archimedean, Dedekind complete pseudo-ordered field. That set theory also proves that the class of left Dedekind cuts is a set, not requiring Induction or Collection. And it moreover proves that function spaces into discrete sets are sets (there e.g. ), without assuming . Already over the weak theory  (which is to say without Infinity) does binary refinement prove that function spaces into discrete sets are sets, and therefore e.g. the existence of all characteristic function spaces .

Subset Collection
The theory known as  adopts the axioms of the previous sections plus a stronger form of Exponentiation. It is by adopting the following alternative to Exponentiation, which can again be seen as a constructive version of the Power set axiom:

An alternative that is not a schema is elaborated on below.

Fullness
For given  and , let  be the class of all total relations between  and . This class is given as

As opposed to the function definition, there is no unique existence quantifier in . The class  represents the space of "non-unique-valued functions" or "multivalued functions" from  to , but as set of individual pairs with right projection in . The second clause says that one is concerned with only these relations, not those which are total on  but also extend their domain beyond .

One does not postulate  to be a set, since with Replacement one can use this collection of relations between a set  and the finite , i.e. the "bi-valued functions on ", to extract the set  of all its subsets. In other words  being a set would imply the Powerset axiom.

Over , there is a single, somewhat clearer alternative axiom to the Subset Collection schema. It postulates the existence of a sufficiently large set  of total relations between  and .