[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Libby Prison escape

The Libby Prison escape was a prison escape from Libby Prison, a Confederate prison at Richmond, Virginia in February 1864 that saw over 100 Union prisoners-of-war escape from captivity. It was one of the most successful prison breaks of the American Civil War.

Led by Colonel Thomas E. Rose of the 77th Pennsylvania Infantry, the prisoners started tunnelling in a rat-infested zone which the Confederate guards were reluctant to enter. The tunnel emerged in a vacant lot beside a warehouse, from where the escapees could walk out through the gate without arousing suspicion. Since the prison was believed to be escape-proof, there was less vigilance by the authorities than in other camps, and the alarm was not raised for nearly 12 hours. Over half the prisoners were able to reach Union lines, helped by their familiarity with the terrain after serving in McClellan's Peninsula Campaign of 1862.

Background 

At the outbreak of the Civil War, Luther Libby was running a ship supply shop from the corner of a large warehouse in Richmond, Virginia.  In need of a new prison for captured Union officers, Confederate soldiers gave Libby 48 hours to evacuate his property.  The sign over the north-west corner reading "L. Libby & Son, Ship Chandlers" was never removed, and consequently the building and prison bore his name.  Since the Confederates believed the building inescapable, the staff considered their job relatively easy.

Location and layout 
Libby Prison encompassed an entire city block in Richmond.  To the north lay Cary Street, connecting the prison area to the rest of the city.  On the south side ran the James River.  The prison itself stood three stories above ground with a basement exposed on the river side.  Confederate soldiers whitewashed the outer walls to make lurking prisoners instantly recognizable.

The first floor of Libby Prison housed the various offices of the Confederate guard unit; the second and third floors were partitioned as inmate holding areas.  The basement of the prison was divided into three sections.  The western end was a storage cellar, the middle section was a carpenter's shop used by civilians, and the eastern end was an abandoned kitchen.  This kitchen in the eastern section was once used by Union inmates, but an infestation of rats and constant flooding compelled the Confederates to close it off.  The abandoned area became known as "Rat Hell."

Rat Hell 

Though most of the prisoners (and guards alike) did what they could to avoid Rat Hell, a handful of Union officers schemed to break in.  By removing a stove on the first floor and chipping their way into the adjoining chimney, the officers constructed a cramped but effective passage for access to the eastern basement.  Once access between the two floors was established, the officers set about plans to tunnel their way out.

The floor of Rat Hell was covered in two feet of straw.  This straw was a bane and a blessing for the officers.  On one hand, it provided a perfect hiding place for the dirt excavated from the tunnel. Captain I. N. Johnston, who spent more time in Rat Hell than any other Union officer, commented, "I have been asked a thousand times how we contrived to hide such a quantity of earth as the digging of a tunnel of that size would dislodge.  [On the floor] we made a wide and deep opening...in this the loose dirt was closely packed, and then nicely covered with straw."  By such means, the Union officers were able to conceal all signs of the tunnel that might tip off civilians and wandering sentries.  The straw in Rat Hell also provided a convenient hiding place for workers during the day.

One man was chosen to conceal all signs of the tunnel while the digging party scrambled up to the first floor.  He would then remain buried in the straw for the remainder of the day until the next relief arrived at dusk.  Johnston wrote, "...There was a large quantity [of straw] there, and but for which our undertaking must have been discovered nearly as soon as begun."  As helpful as the straw might have been, it was nevertheless the main reason for the nickname, Rat Hell.  Lt. Charles H. Moran, a recaptured officer from Libby, wrote, "No tongue can tell...how the poor fellow[s] passed among the squealing rats,—enduring the sickening air, the deathly chill, the horrible interminable darkness."