[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Saad el-Shazly

Sea region and secure the area and appointed him commander of the Red Sea Military Region in 1970. General Al-Shazly managed to stop the daily kidnappings that were taking place against civilians and employees who were taken as prisoners by the Israeli forces as well as stopping the Israeli attacks.

Shedwan Incident 
On January 22, 1970, Israel attacked the Red Sea island of Shedwan, near the entrance to the Gulf of Suez, 35 kilometers from Hurghada and 325 kilometers from Suez which had a lighthouse to guide ships and a marine radar, secured by an Egyptian thunderbolt, and its military importance was purely because it was an uninhabited rocky island and its area didn't exceed 60 square kilometers.

The Israeli forces bombed the island by air and followed it with the landing of the soldiers by helicopter and the landing boats in an attempt to occupy it, and a small garrison of the Egyptian thunderbolt withstood a huge Israeli fire, and the Israelis announced on the evening of the first fighting night that their forces "found no resistance on the island", except they came back and confessed at three in the afternoon the next day that fighting was still going on on the island.

Maj. Gen. Al-Shazly ordered the attack of the island with the help of a number of fishermen from the governorate, which resulted in the transfer of soldiers and equipment in the dark to Shedwan Island to attack the Israeli forces.

Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces 
On May 16, 1971, after President Anwar Sadat ousted the poles of the Nasser regime, in what he called the correction revolution, he appointed Al-Shazly as chief of staff of the Egyptian armed forces, as he was not affiliated with any of the wrestlers on the Egyptian political scene at the time, and for his competence, his military ability, and the rich background he gained from his studies between the United States of America and the Soviet Union in military sciences as well as his long military career.

Dispute with LT General Muhammad Sadiq 
When Al-Shazly was appointed as Chief of Staff of the Egyptian armed forces, the Minister of War and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces at the time was Lieutenant General Muhammad Sadiq, with whom he entered into disagreements over the operational plan for the liberation of Sinai.

The LT Gen. Muhammad Sadiq was the first to see that the Egyptian Army should not undertake any offensive operation unless it has reached a stage that surpasses the enemy in the equipment and combat efficiency of its soldiers, only then can it carry out a massive offensive operation that destroys Israeli forces in the Sinai and advances to the straits and from there to Gaza.

Al-Shazly's response to his proposals was that he would like this, but this opinion is not in line with the actual capabilities of the armed forces for the weakness of the air force and the lack of a mobile air defense that protects the advanced forces.

Al-Shazly started to develop an offensive plan according to the capabilities of the armed forces, which required the recovery of 10 to 12 km in the depth of Sinai.  He built his opinion that it is important to tailor the war strategy to your capabilities and according to the capabilities of the enemy. However, the LT General, Muhammad Ahmad Sadiq, opposed the plan on the pretext that it does not achieve any political or military goal. From the political point of view, it will achieve nothing and 60,000 square kilometers of Sinai will remain under Israeli control, but militarily it will create, for the Egyptian army a difficult position instead of the current one since it depends on the Suez Canal to act as a natural barrier, while the transportation lines through the bridges erected in the canal will be at the mercy of the Israeli air force.

After lengthy discussions between Al-Shazly and Muhammwd Sadiq, Al-Shazly reached a compromise, which is the preparation of two plans, the first aimed at occupying the Straits, which he called Operation 41 and the second aimed at seizing the Bar Lev Line and called it the Operation Badr, but Muhammad Ahmed Sadiq was not convinced and from his point of view, Egypt would not tolerate another defeat.

On October 26, 1972, Anwar Sadat dismissed Lieutenant General Muhammad Sadiq of the Ministry of War for his disagreement with his vision of liberating the land, his conviction to see Al-Shazly and appointed Field Marshal Ahmed Ismail Ali as Minister of War and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, who had been referred for retirement in the late days of President Gamal Abdel Nasser, who showed him  Al-Shazly has old differences, but they committed themselves to working with each other to prepare for the October war.