[Source: PubMed]

98. BMC Public Health. 2023 Jan 21;23(1):145. doi: 10.1186/s12889-023-14996-2.

Barriers and facilitators to state public health agency climate and health 
action: a qualitative assessment.

Hartwell C(#)(1), Lovell S(#)(1), Hess JJ(1)(2)(3)(4), Dolan K(5), Vickery J(1), 
Errett NA(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, School of 
Public Health, University of Washington, Seattle, USA.
(2)Department of Global Health, School of Public Health, University of 
Washington, Seattle, USA.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, School of Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, USA.
(4)Center for Health and the Global Environment (CHanGE), School of Public 
Health, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(5)Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, Arlington, VA, USA.
(6)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, School of 
Public Health, University of Washington, Seattle, USA. nerrett@uw.edu.
(7)Center for Health and the Global Environment (CHanGE), School of Public 
Health, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. nerrett@uw.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: As the health implications of climate change become more apparent, 
agencies and institutions across the United States are developing 
recommendations for state and territorial health agencies (S/THAs) to implement 
evidence-informed climate and health adaptation strategies. The CDC established 
the Building Resilience Against Climate Effects (BRACE) framework in 2010 to 
encourage local and state public health engagement in climate change adaptation. 
However, even after a decade of the BRACE initiative, the elements that affect 
the adoption and implementation of climate and health programming by S/THAs are 
not well understood.
METHODS: Using an implementation science framework, this study sought to further 
understand and define the barriers and facilitators that determine the breadth 
and success of climate change and health activities undertaken by state health 
agencies (SHAs). We conducted focus groups with representatives from SHAs with 
and without climate and health programs, and analyzed data using the framework 
method for qualitative research.
RESULTS: This study identified funding, state and agency-level prioritization, 
staff capability and capacity, and political will and polarization as factors 
that influence the readiness for implementation and implementation climate for 
climate and health activities.
CONCLUSIONS: As the impacts of climate change intensify, S/THAs will need to 
expand resources and capacity, and seek advocacy and assistance from external 
organizations in order to support the level of engagement required to strengthen 
climate resilience. Findings from this study have implications for public health 
policy and highlight potential pathways to expand support for climate and health 
activities in S/THAs in the U.S.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-023-14996-2
PMCID: PMC9859738
PMID: 36670368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.