[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Environmental dumping

vered plastics in 2007.  Some of these wastes that are transported can be hazardous waste.  These hazardous wastes can cause potential health risks to humans and the environment.  According to the Basel Convention, there is at least 8 million tons of hazardous waste imported and exported every year.

The Basel Convention was created in 1989 but started enforcing rules in 1992. The purpose of the convention is to control the hazardous waste that was imported and exported throughout the EU.   The convention is a great contributor to stopping the shipment of illegal waste.  In May 2005, 60 containers were seized that were on their way from the United Kingdom to China.  The containers seized by Dutch authorities were supposed to be for paper but actually contained household wastes.  Since neither the UK, China, nor Dutch had agreed to the importation of the wastes, the waste was shipped back.  The Basel Convention also deals with the popular growing issue of E-waste.  The Waste Shipment Regulation confirms what can be shipped to, from, and between EU countries.  These regulation rules divide the waste into three separate lists: Green List, Amber List, and Red List.
 Green List
 These items are considered to be non-hazardous and more environmentally friendly.  Some of these items may include paper and plastic that can be recycled.  These types of shipment don’t have to receive prior permission to cross international waters and be shipped to parts of the European Union.
 Amber List
 Materials are considered to be mixed on this list containing both non-hazardous and hazardous parts.  These materials can contain metal bearing wastes, organic and inorganic wastes, and/or organic or inorganic constituents. A company or country shipping these items would have to have prior consent before exporting the materials. As of 2007, consent for the shipment of waste is received by Dublin City Council.
 Red List
 This includes reasonably hazardous materials. These materials contain principally organic or inorganic constituents, which include polychlorinated biphenyl (PCBs).

Ocean dumping

Shipment of waste from country to country can also involve dumping waste into the ocean. Ocean dumping has been a problem since the 19th century. In the United States, it was legal to dump industrial waste into the ocean until the Ocean Dumping Act was passed in 1972. During the years of 1970 and 1980 alone, it was estimated that 25 million tons of waste including scrap metal, chemicals, and acids were dumped into the ocean. Ocean dumping can lead to eutrophication which depletes the oxygen from the water, in turn killing marine life. Ocean dumping is placed into three lists: Gray List, Black List, and White List.
Gray List: Water is highly contaminated and toxic on the gray list. Some of the contaminants include arsenic, lead, acids, nickel, chromium, scrap metals, and radioactive materials.
Black List: The materials listed on the black list include mercury, cadmium, plastic, oil products, radioactive waste, and anything that is solely made for biological and chemical warfare. The materials on this list are highly potent and hazardous.
White List: The white list contains every other material not already mentioned in the above lists. This list is used to make sure nothing will be dumped into the ocean and disturb or damage the coral reef ecosystems.

The most recent example of hazardous waste being dumped into the ocean occurred along Côte d'Ivoire in Africa in 2006. Hundreds of tons of waste product were dumped into the ocean from a ship by the name of Probo Koala. The ship was chartered by an international oil trader in the Netherlands. The incident precipitated a health crisis and impacted the health of 100 000 people in the vicinity. The oil trader (Trafigura) paid 200 million dollars to help with cleanup. The owner of the local company that was responsible for disposing the chemicals in various places was given 20 years in jail.

In the European Union, new regulations on the shipment of hazardous and non-hazardous materials were implemented in 2007. According to the new regulations, the EU will no longer be able to export their hazardous wastes to developing countries that do not have the capabilities to deal with the waste in an environmentally friendly way. E-waste, such as computers, cannot be shipped to countries that are not in the EU or the European Free Trade Association. States and countries that are members of the EU or EFTA must conduct inspections periodically to make sure that all regulations are being followed and physically check containers to verify that the containers hold only what is authorized. Finally, if the country that is taking the waste is unable to accept or dispose of the waste then the sender must pay to take their waste back.