[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shalom Hanoch

onths after the first. Two more artists who worked with Einstein that time, Shmulik Kraus and Josie Katz, took part in recording and composing. In the same year Hanoch wrote and composed a song for Uri Zohar's Hitromemut movie. In 1971 Hanoch flew to London in order to start an international career.

International career
In London Shalom signed a contract with producer and music publisher Dick James, who worked with Elton John that time. In 1971 Hanoch recorded a solo album in English, Shalom. The album was recorded and produced by James' record company, DJM, with Elton John's backing band. The record included songs that were composed by Hanoch in Israel and were translated to English, and also included new compositions. A few of these became more famous in Israel several years later, when they were translated into Hebrew and appeared in his solo albums, and in an album by his new band Tamouz. With his return to Israel in 1973 Hanoch claimed he had come back because it was hard for him to succeed in other countries, and writing in English did not suit him. In 1976 the album was released in Israel by CBS and sold out in stores very fast. CBS never produced additional copies of the album, and it was never re-released.

Back in Israel

In 1973 Hanoch returned to Israel. He and Ariel Zilber founded the group Tamouz. With them leading the band, Tamouz became the most significant rock band of the late 1970s in Israel. Tamouz's only album – Sof Onat HaTapuzim (End of the Orange Season)(1976), was a milestone in the development of Israeli Rock, and became the preeminent album of its time. Tamouz went on a performance tour which was very successful. However, the tour's production costs were high and the band lost money. The group embarked on a last, successful tour which recouped some of its losses. However, it then disbanded due to its poor finances and Zilber's dissatisfaction with the band's musical type and genre. Tamouz reunited for a few tours in 1983, and also performed in the memory of Meir Ariel in 2000, a year after his death.

Adam Betoch Azmo
After Tamouz disbanded, Hanoch released his first Hebrew solo album – Adam Betoch Azmo (1977, A Man Inside Himself). The songs were mainly quiet and in minor keys, including Adam Betoch Azmo, Ir Zara (Foreign Town), Tiyul LeYafo (A Trip to Jaffa), and Rack Lirkod (Just Dance). Most of these songs talked about Hanoch's life, after a bitter divorce from his wife. In 1978 Hanoch performed in the Neviot Festival. The performances there were very successful, and made Hanoch an esteemed rock singer. At this time, Hanoch recorded his song – Haya Kedai (It Was Worth It), which was a huge success.

In 1979, Arik Einstein and Shalom Hanoch started an elaborately produced joint tour. The performance was recorded in Heichal HaTarbut and was released as Arik Einstein VeShalom Hanoch BeHofa'a Meshutefet. This album contained new songs of both Einstein and Hanoch, and two medleys (almost 20 minutes long each) of their best songs from their albums in the 1970s.

In 1980 Hanoch produced Einstein's MiShirei Sasha Argov. In the same year he also wrote and composed Shir Lelo Shem for Yehudit Ravitz, which was written in memory of Shalom's nephew, Avshalom, in November. Hanoch also composed a few songs for Einstein's album Hamush BeMishkafaim (Armed with Glasses), and composed Nurit Galron's very well known song – Ki HaAdam Etz HaSade.

White Wedding
In 1981 Hanoch created one of his most prominent albums – Chatuna Levana (White Wedding). This album differed from Hanoch's previous albums, since it was very dark sounding, and it was the first time Hanoch sang in his familiar voice of today, and not in a tenor as at the start of his career. The songs were very complex, and dealt with Hanoch's divorce, relationships, money and success. The album did not achieve commercial success for the first several years after its release,  but today it is recognized as a modern, heavy and rough rock creation in Hebrew.

The 1980s
In 1983 Hanoch recorded the album Al Pnei HaAdama (On the Face of the Earth) about man and nature. The album contained three new songs, and re-recordings of older songs. In 1985 he recorded his most successful album – Mehakim LeMashiach (Waiting for The Messiah). The album contained political-social songs: "Waiting for The Messiah" dealt with the crash of the Israeli Stock Market, Lo Otzer BeAdom (Doesn't Stop For Red Lights) was written about the 1982 Lebanon War. It also contained personal songs and love songs. This album was produced by Hanoch and Moshe Levi, who since then became his musical partner. Hanoch planned a tour in small halls, but eventually he decided to risk putting on four stadium shows.  In 1988 Hanoch created another album, "Rak Ben-Adam" (Only human) which wasn't very successful because it was partially made in England.