[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chris Brandon

es Dons. Brandon returned to the side following his suspension and helped Huddersfield to win a place in the play-offs. He was an unused substitute in the first leg 1–0 victory over Barnsley, and he played just eight minutes of the second leg, as Huddersfield lost 3–1 to again miss out on promotion.

The following season was interrupted by an achilles injury for Brandon. It was not until February 2007, that Brandon scored his first goal of the 2006–07 season, during Huddersfield Town's 2–1 defeat to Crewe Alexandra. He only played one more game for Huddersfield that season, before he joined fellow League One side Blackpool on loan on 21 March 2007, joining another Town teammate, goalkeeper Paul Rachubka. Blackpool were searching for promotion and Brandon helped when he scored two goals during a 4–1 defeat of Northampton Town. However, he was sent off on 28 April 2007 in Blackpool's win at home to Scunthorpe United, which resulted in his missing the Seasiders' play-off games, and therefore not being considered for their successful final at Wembley against Yeovil Town. Brandon played in five games during his loan spell, all of which Blackpool won.

It seemed certain that manager Simon Grayson was going to purchase Brandon, but instead Grayson bought Brandon's teammate Gary Taylor-Fletcher. Brandon returned to Huddersfield and was back in first team. However, after he was substituted on 14 October 2007 against Doncaster Rovers, he did not feature again until the New Year. On 5 January 2008, his second game back in the Huddersfield side, Brandon scored another FA Cup winning goal to knock Premier League side Birmingham City out of the competition in a 2–1 defeat at the Galpharm Stadium. He scored his second goal of the season, in the following game against Gillingham, but was sent off in the final minute of a 1–1 draw with Brighton & Hove Albion the next week. Brandon's red card meant he was suspended for Huddersfield's fourth round FA Cup tie with Oldham Athletic, but following a 1–0 victory, he returned in time for their visit to Chelsea in the fifth round, which Chelsea won 3–1. Brandon scored just one more goal during the rest of the season, with his last game coming on 15 April 2008 in the Yorkshire derby with Leeds United. With his contract due to expire in the summer, it turned out to be his final game for Huddersfield after 135 league appearances, during which time he scored 12 goals, and a total of 148 games.

Bradford City

After being one of eight players to be released by new Huddersfield manager Stan Ternent in early May 2008, Brandon turned down the chance to join another League One side and instead dropped down a division for the first time in six years to sign a two-year deal at Bradford City on 30 May 2008. Although Bradford were a League Two side, Brandon said it would be the highlight of his career to play for his hometown club.

An ankle injury, which Brandon picked up in a pre-season tour game against Scottish side Motherwell kept Brandon out of the side at the start of the 2008–09 season. This included a League Cup game against his old side Huddersfield Town on 12 August 2008, for which he was a spectator as Bradford lost 4–0. When he attempted to make a comeback, he injured his other ankle in a reserve game with Scunthorpe United and was forced to undergo the first operation of his career which kept him out until January 2009. Once he returned to training in January, his first team debut was again delayed after a shoulder injury suffered at home. He returned to action for the reserves against Doncaster Rovers in February, before making his long-awaited debut on 7 March 2009 against Aldershot Town with City three goals ahead in a game which finally finished 5–0. He finished the season playing seven games. However, City missed out on promotion and Brandon's future was cast into doubt because of the size of his contract and budget cuts at the club.

Brandon, however, remained at Bradford for the 2009–10 season and he scored his first goal for his hometown club with a late goal in a 2–0 victory against his former side Torquay United in late August. The following month, his second goal for the club again came against one of Brandon's former teams, as he once again came off the substitutes' bench to score in a 3–0 victory over Chesterfield. However, he continued to struggle to hold down a regular first-team place and when new manager Peter Taylor took over, Brandon was one of a number of players released early from his contract. He had played just 31 games during his two seasons with City, scoring three goals.