[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Noise regulation

eration of noise. Fairfax County, VA (Sections 105-4-4 and 108-5-1) require agricultural operation to meet maximum land use regulations and prohibit unnecessary noise.  British Columbia Ministry of Agriculture (Farm Nuisance Noise document) have developed a comprehensive set of rules for cannon use.

Public address systems
This provision is a subjective immission control. It can contain a plainly audible term or a curfew.  It is applied to commercial facilities using a sound system to deliberately propagate mostly speech, but also music.  Most cities have provisions relevant to this subject.  Lakewood, CO (Sections 9.52.06 and 09.52.160) used plainly audible as a regulatory tool and prohibits the sounding of bells, or chimes from 10pm to 7am.  Charlotte, NC (Section 15-69(a)(4)) limits levels to 60 dB(A) at 50 feet from 9am to 9pm and 50 dB(A) at other times. Indianapolis, IN (Section 391-505) addresses broadcasts from aircraft. Connecticut (Section 22a-69-1.7) exempts bells, carillons, and chimes from religious facilities.

Sound reproduction devices
This provision is subjective immission control. It may contain a numerical level or a plainly audible term and a curfew. it is applied to specific sources of sound as opposed to any location at which the sound is created. It is applied primarily to amplified sound sources.  Older provisions listed several items such as televisions, phonographs, etc.  Changing the title to the above  addresses the real issue and allows for novel sound production devices.  Numerous communities have provisions for these devices; many use plainly audible as the criterion, such as Omaha, NE (Section 17-3) and Buffalo NY (Section 293-4)

Stadiums and outdoor music festivals
This provision can be either a subjective or objective immission control with a curfew.  The subjective aspect relates to noise disturbance in the local community.  The objective aspect limits the acceptable sound level in the local community.  Illinois (Environmental Protection Act 415.25) exempts certain stadiums and exempts festivals, parades, or street fairs. Colorado Spring, CO (Section 9.8.101)  has similar exemptions, but limits the sound levels to 80 dB(A) at residential locations.

Stationary emergency signaling devices
This provision is an emission control with a list of devices that are exempt. It can have a term that limits the time periods in which emergency alarms may be tested. It can have a term that limits the activation time of burglar or fire alarms.  Chicago, IL (Section 11-4-2815) limits the time for tests to 4 minutes between 9am and 5pm. Oregon (Chapter 467) prohibits sound when an emergency vehicle is stationary.

Stationary non-emergency non-safety signaling devices
This provision is an emission control that limits the activation period of alarms and restricts activation to a specific time-of-day or day-of-week. Los Angeles, CA () prohibits the sounding if the signal can be heard at 200 feet or more. Chicago, IL (Section 11-4-2820) considers the sound to be a noise disturbance in residential areas if the sound exceeds 5 minutes in any hour; steam whistles are exempt.  Albuquerque, NM (Section 9-9-12) restricts levels to 5 dB over the ambient at a property line and applies maximum permissible residential level as well as plainly audible restrictions at night.

Street sales
This provision is a subjective immission control with a curfew. Boston, MA (Section 16–2.2) prohibits street sales near schools or churches if there is a “disturbance of the peace”.  Hammond, IN (Section 6.2.4) places a curfew between 6 pm and 9 am.

Tampering
This provision prevents the modification of muffling devices that increase the emitted sound. It can also be used to prevent the commercial sale of such mufflers.  Most states and communities have prohibitions on tampering with noise reduction devices. whether stationary or moving.  Salt Lake County health Department (Section 4.5.10) prohibits modifications of mufflers that increase sound levels and prohibits tampering with noise rating labels.  See Section below on Adequate Mufflers.

Vibration
This provision is a subjective emission control.  Noise disturbance caused by vibration comes in three forms.  One is contact with vibrating surfaces, the second in auditory, and the third is the observation of surrounding objects movement.  Objectively regulating vibration is difficult so this provision makes use of the Vibration Perception Threshold.  Railroad caused vibration is preempted by federal law (CFR 201). Chicago, IL (Section 11-4-2910) uses the perception threshold method.   Dallas, TX requires measurement of low frequency vibration.  Maryland uses the definition of noise to include sound and vibration at sub-audible frequencies.