[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of The Sarah Jane Adventures minor characters

ane". Although not seen in Bane form, as with the rest of the factory workers, it was implied she was a Bane. She was tasked with killing Sarah Jane Smith in a lift. However, Sarah spotted her in a mirror and intercepted the attack, wounding Lesley.

Brigadier Sir Alistair Gordon Lethbridge-Stewart 

Retired UNIT commanding officer and Sarah Jane's friend since 1973, Brigadier Sir Alistair Gordon Lethbridge-Stewart is shown in a photograph in Sarah Jane's attic in the pilot episode, "Invasion of the Bane". He returns in-person in "Enemy of the Bane", having been a frequent companion of the Doctor on Doctor Who from The Web of Fear through Battlefield and the (arguably non-canonical) special "Dimensions in Time".  He co-stars with Sarah Jane and fellow former companion Victoria Waterfield in the direct-to-video movie, Downtime. In addition to his guest starring return in Enemy of the Bane, he is referred to in "Invasion of the Bane", Revenge of the Slitheen, The Wedding of Sarah Jane Smith and Death of the Doctor. Sarah Jane considers naming Luke after him when selecting the boy's name.

M

Mr Smith 
Mr Smith is a fictional extraterrestrial computer voiced by Alexander Armstrong which appears in the British children's science fiction television series, The Sarah Jane Adventures, with further minor appearances in the final two episodes of the fourth series of Doctor Who. He is installed in the attic of Sarah Jane Smith's (Elisabeth Sladen) home, and is used to hack into other systems; Sarah Jane asserts that he can hack "into anything". He first appeared in the premiere New Year's Day special "Invasion of the Bane" (2007) and has appeared in every story except The Eternity Trap (2009).

See also 
List of The Sarah Jane Adventures monsters and aliens
List of Doctor Who supporting characters
List of Doctor Who villains
List of Torchwood characters

References 

 
Sarah Jane
Sarah Jane