[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of Battle Angel Alita characters

otors to tear Armblessed's body to shreds. Jashugan then uses one of Armblessed's chain blades that has been severed from him to slice Zafal Takie in two and prevent her from securing the motorball.  Armblessed's head survives and he is picked up off the track along with Ajakutty by a recovery team.

Zafal Takie
League: Second
Player Number: 7
Nickname: "Crimson Wind"

Zafal Takie is the only other female motorball player shown besides Alita. She relies on her speed and technique as opposed to fighting prowess to win, being skilled enough to get within speaking distance of Alita without the latter noticing until the last minute. Since her debut, she has won three straight races. In her fourth race she succeeded in maneuvering Skaramasakus off the track and into the crash area, claiming the motorball. She then challenged Alita, winning their initial confrontation and forcing Alita to pit. However, Takie lost their second confrontation when Alita returned to the track. Her performance earns her a spot on Alita's challenge team. During the challenge race, she is sliced in two by one of Armblessed's chain blades wielded by Jashugan while reaching for the motorball. It is implied that she survived because her brain remained intact, although she is not explicitly shown being picked up by a recovery crew.

Tiegel
League: Second
Player Number: 50
Nicknames: "The Shame of the Second", "Walking Last Place"

Holding the lowest average in the Second League, Tiegel is the largest motorball player seen.  Heavily armored and nearly impervious to attack, his bulk also makes him ponderously slow.  Tiegel does not have any special abilities, but is very persistent.  He is in love with Alita, and begs her to let him join her challenge team both on and off the track.  Alita's duel with Zafal Takie during her Second League debut gives Tiegel an unexpected victory during the race, provoking a riot among the spectators and earning him a spot on the team. During the challenge race with Jashugan, he attempts to ram the champion but crashes into a wall. When pulled out by a recovery team, he revives, intervening in the fight between Jashugan and Alita just in time to prevent the former from finishing her off. This time Tiegel succeeds in slamming Jashugan into a wall, but Jashugan's attacks break through his armor, triggering a series of explosions and setting his body ablaze. His final act is to ram Jashugan into another section of the wall, expressing his lack of regret over not quitting Motorball because he had the chance to fight the champion.

Others

Esdoc ("Ed")

A former Motorball player, Ed is Alita's manager and his racing team is named Esdoc Motors.  In his prime, his blade techniques were as good as Jashugan's Maschine Klatsch and they were rivals.  However, both were severely injured in an accident, from which Ed had to resort to acceleration drug injections to stay competitive.  His abuse of the drug resulted in a permanent condition called "Terminal Frost", which forced him to retire from motorball and makes his hands shake uncontrollably at unpredictable times, although it can be controlled with medications.

Ed recruited Alita shortly after she ran away from Ido following Hugo's death, and has dreams of getting her into the top league, so he can vicariously fulfill his dream of challenging and eventually surpassing Jashugan. He is violently opposed to Alita's plans to quit motorball after her match with Jashugan, when she will have fulfilled her 12 race contract, and plans to have her contract renewed. When a junky with a homemade gun tries to kill Alita, Ed shields her, taking a fatal shot that blows off the top of his head. His last act is to give Alita her Damascus Blades that he had reforged into a single blade.

Unbeknownst to Alita, Ed sold her Berserker Body, which had been in storage, while she was fitted out with her Motorball body in an attempt to keep her on the circuit.  That body was later acquired by Desty Nova and fitted onto Zapan.

Umba

A fat, very short cyborg, Umba is an ace mechanic, responsible for repairing Alita's Motorball body as well as tuning and upgrading it.  He uses a tracked harness from which he hangs suspended for increased mobility and height. When Alita is damaged following her confrontation with Takie, Umba proves that he is skilled enough to be able to absorb enough information from 15 sensors in order to control a 20 arm "octopus" exoskeleton, in effect performing the work of ten engineers and getting Alita back onto the track in less than six minutes. Umba has agoraphobia, and is no fun on an outing according to Esdoc. Devastated following Esdoc's death, he nevertheless does not try to dissuade Alita from her decision to quit motorball after the match with Jashugan. Two years later, Umba starts a successful engineering company with Mr. Thompson and writes to Alita about her Berserker Body, which he has managed to track down to Desty Nova after Ed sold it.

Barjack