[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Fallout (video game)

ould be perceived as persuasive by the player.  Assistant designer Scott Bennie described the backstory of the Master, who views himself as a well-intentioned hero, as an example of their intention of "hit[ting] the player with an emotional sledgehammer as often as possible" with their story design.

Release
Boyarsky and lead artist Jason D. Anderson created advertisements for Fallout. Fallout did not have a trailer, but a demo was released on April 26, 1997. The packaging was designed to resemble a lunch box, and the manual was designed to resemble a survival guide to reflect the game's style. Fallout was released on October 10, 1997, in North America for MS-DOS and Windows. The game was later released for Mac OS by the Interplay division MacPlay. Version 1.1 was released on November 13, 1997, patching many bugs in the original release and removing the 500-day time limit. The patch was released for the Mac OS on December 11, 1997.

Fallout was initially not released in Europe due to the player's ability to kill children in-game. Version 1.2 removed the children from Fallout and it was released at an unspecified date in Europe. MacPlay, which had become independent from Interplay, ported Fallout to Mac OS X in 2002 as part of its "Value Series". Fallout and its sequels, Fallout 2 and Fallout Tactics: Brotherhood of Steel, were bundled as Fallout Trilogy in April 2009. To mark its 20th anniversary, the game was made temporarily free on video game digital distribution service Steam on September 30, 2017. It was also included in Fallout Anthology in September and October 2015 and Fallout Legacy Collection in October 2019.

Reception

Fallout received critical acclaim, critics considering it one of the best role-playing video games at the time. PC PowerPlay predicted that Fallout would revive the genre and thought that both casual gamers and fans of role-playing games would enjoy the game. GameSpot declared that because of the release of Fallout, gamers would not have to wait for a good role-playing game anymore. The Electric Playground said that they "can't think of another game that comes even close to Fallout excellent character generation and skill system, great story, and classy delivery."

Critics praised the character system. GamePro considered it the best aspect, and Todd Vaughn of PC Gamer found the system "easy and fun to use." The Washington Post praised the "realistic tradeoffs" during customization.  Computer Games Strategy Plus said the system allowed for a variety of effective character builds, and The Electric Playground and PC PowerPlay praised the game for allowing each skill to be useful. GameSpot felt that "the variety of characters that can be created and the truly different experiences that each type of character can have should satisfy even hard-core RPG players."

The post-apocalyptic setting and story were praised. The setting was lauded as refreshing for a role-playing game; Just Adventure said that Fallout abandoned the traditional fantasy-based settings of many role-playing games. Butcher said the game's appearance, sound, and ambient music delivered a believable environment, and Computer Games Strategy Plus found the mix of satire and grit well-executed. GameSpot and the Independent said the storyline was compelling. Critics commended the cinematic introduction; The Electric Playground called it "the most haunting opening movie" he had seen. Butcher praised the ability to complete quests in multiple ways, and Next Generation found the subquests to be a natural outgrowth of the main quest. Computer Gaming World, however, said the dialogue was unable to account for the player's unpredictability, resulting in out-of-order dialogue. Just Adventure considered the ending among the best in video games.

The combat received a slightly positive reception. Several reviews praised its tactical nature, and GameSpot found the targeting system satisfying. Computer Games Strategy Plus said that fans of turn-based RPGs would greatly enjoy the combat because of the wide variety of weapons. Finding the combat unrealistic, Computer Gaming World said that the turn-based system "might bore or disappoint Diablo fans, but will be welcome to most hard-core RPGers." The companions were criticized because the player could not control them directly. Vaughn said the combat was great when playing without companions and frustrating when playing with them.