[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tamiment Library and Robert F. Wagner Archives

1977, New York University was brought on board and together the three entities established the new labor archive, named after Senator Robert F. Wagner Sr. of New York, sponsor of the National Labor Relations Act of 1935, legislation which guaranteed workers the basic right to organize trade unions.

The Central Labor Council's support was especially critical to the success of the Robert F. Wagner Labor Archives as was the use of the Wagner name, as it gave mainstream legitimacy to the effort and helped to motivate several fairly conservative unions to provide document accessions to the collection. The "Tamiment" name had been closely associated with the Socialist Party and New York University was not perceived as friendly to the interests of organized labor – a pair of potential stumbling blocks which were neatly alleviated by the alternative name and official support of the CLC.

The Wagner Labor Archive hired its first employee, Larry Cary, in 1978 and made use of grant money from the Rockefeller Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities to help launch the project. Succeeding Cary at the helm of the Labor Archive was labor historian Debra Bernhardt, who later took over for Dorothy Swanson as head of the combined Tamiment Library and Robert F. Wagner Archives. Berhardt died in 2001 at the age of 47 and was in turn succeeded, following an extensive search, by labor historian and archivist Michael H. Nash in 2002. Nash was responsible for acquiring the archives of the Communist Party USA for preservation.

Major acquisitions

The Abraham Lincoln Brigade Archives (ALBA) collection, formerly located at Brandeis University, was acquired by the Tamiment Library in 2001. The collection is the largest and most important resource for the study of the participation of American volunteers in the Spanish Civil War. It includes the papers of more than 200 volunteers, oral histories, films, photographs, posters, and selections of the microfilmed records of the International Brigades that were taken to the Soviet Union after the Spanish Civil War.

In March 2007, the archives of the Communist Party USA were donated to the library. The massive donation came in over 2,000 cartons, and included 20,000 books and pamphlets – some of which dated from the founding of the party – as well as thousands of photographs from the archives of the Daily Worker. The library also holds a copy of the microfilmed archive of Communist Party documents from Russian State Archives of Social and Political History held by the Library of Congress.

Also notable was the acquisition of the papers of former Central Intelligence Agency officer Philip Agee, a defector to Cuba, as well as the papers of black civil rights activists Esther and James Jackson, Nation magazine editor Victor Navasky, and papers of radical lawyer William Kunstler and historian Howard Zinn.

Collection in the 21st century
As of 2013, the collection of the Tamiment Library and Robert F. Wagner Archives included more than 100,000 pamphlets, as well as other radical ephemera.

See also

 Rand School of Social Science

Footnotes

Further reading

 Daniel Bell, The Tamiment Library. New York: New York University Libraries, 1969.
 Larry Cary, "The 35-Year History of the Robert F. Wagner Labor Archives," American Communist History, vol. 12, no. 1 (April 2013), pp. 17–29.
 Michael Nash, "Communist History at the Tamiment Library," American Communist History, vol. 3, no. 2 (December 2004), pp. 267–285.
 Dorothy Swanson, "The Tamiment Institute/Ben Josephson Library and the Robert F. Wagner Labor Archives at New York University," Library Quarterly, vol. 59, no. 2 (April 1989), pp. 148–161. In JSTOR

External links
 Tamiment Library and Robert F. Wagner Archives, official website.
 "Anarchist Collections in the Tamiment Library: Highlights from the Collections," www.flickr.com/
 "CPUSA: Ninety Years of History, a Tamiment Library Exhibit," www.flickr.com/
 "Labor & the Holocaust: The Jewish Labor Committee and the Anti-Nazi Struggle," www.nyu.edu/
 "New York City Labor History Map," www.nyu.edu/
 Labor Arts official website.—Cooperative project collecting images of the cultural artifacts of working people and their organizations.

Archives in the United States
History of social movements
New York University
University and college academic libraries in the United States
Research libraries in the United States
Libraries in Manhattan
Special collections libraries in the United States
Labor relations in New York City