[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 29]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

arried. We used to be such
good friends."

"Is that all over?"

"It is different. She always manages to be busy now," said Temperley in
a slightly ironical tone.

He plunged once more, into a musical discussion.

Hadria had reluctantly to cut it short, in order to arrange
tennis-matches. This task was performed as usual, somewhat recklessly.
Polite and amiable in indiscriminate fashion, Hadria ignored the secret
jealousies and heart-burnings of the neighbourhood, only to recognise
and repent her mistakes when too late. To-day she was even more
unchastened than usual in her dealings with inflammable social material.

"Hadria!" cried Mrs. Fullerton, taking her aside, "How _could_ you ask
Cecilia Gordon to play with young McKenzie? You _know_ their families
are not on speaking terms!"

Everyone, except the culprit, had remarked the haughty manner in which
Cecilia wielded her racket, and the gloomy silence in which the set was
played.

Hadria, though not impenitent, laughed. "How does Miss Gordon manage to
be energetic and chilling at the same time!" she exclaimed.

The Gordons and the McKenzies, like hostile armies, looked on grimly.
Everyone felt awkward, and to feel awkward was nothing less than tragic,
in the eyes of the assembly.

"Oh, Hadria, how _could_ you?" cried Mrs. Gordon, coming up in her
elaborate toilette, which expressed almost as much of the character of
its wearer as was indicated by her thin, chattering tones, and
unreposeful manner. Her mode of dress was rich and florid--very obvious
in its effects, very _naïf_. She was built on a large scale, and might
have been graceful, had not her mental constitution refused to permit,
or to inspire, that which physical construction seemed to intend. She
distributed smiles on all hands, of no particular meaning. Though still
a young woman, she looked worn and wearied. However, her _rôle_ was
cheerfulness, and she smiled on industriously.

"I am so sorry," said Hadria, "the quarrel went clean out of my head.
They are so well matched. But your sister-in-law will never forgive me."

"Oh, well, never mind, my dear; it is your way, I know. Only of course
it is awkward."

"What can be done? Shall I run in and separate them?"

"Oh, Hadria, you _are_ ridiculous!"

"I was not meant for society," she said, in a depressed tone.

"Oh, you will soon get into the way of it," cried Mrs. Gordon
encouragingly.

"I am afraid I shall."

Mrs. Gordon stared. "Mr. Temperley, I can never make out what Miss
Fullerton really means. Do see if you can."

"How could I expect to succeed where you have failed?"

"Oh, you men are so much cleverer than we poor women," cried the lady
archly. Temperley was obviously of the same opinion. But he found some
appropriate Chesterfieldian reply, while Hadria, to his annoyance,
hurried off to her duties, full of good resolutions.

Having introduced a couple of sisters to their brother, she grew
desperate. A set had just ended, and the sisters were asked to play.
This time, no mistake had been made in the selection of partners, so far
as the question of sentiment was concerned, but they were fatally
ill-assorted as to strength. However, Hadria said with a sigh, if their
emotions were satisfied, it was really all they could expect.
Considering the number of family feuds, she did not see her way to
arranging both points, to everyone's satisfaction.

Hadria was surrounded by a small group, among whom were Temperley,
Harold Wilkins, and Mr. Hawkesley, the brother who had been introduced
to his sisters.

"How very handsome Hadria is looking this afternoon," said Mrs. Gordon,
"and how becoming that dark green gown is."

Mrs. Fullerton smiled. "Yes, she does look her best to-day. I think she
has been improving, of late, in her looks."

"That's just what we have all noticed. There is so much animation in her
face; she is such a sweet girl."

Miss Du Prel, who was not of the stuff that martyrs are made of,
muttered something incoherent and deserted her neighbour. She came up to
the group that had gathered round Hadria.

"Ah, Miss Du Prel," cried the latter, "I am so glad to see you at large
again. I was afraid you were getting bored."

"I was," said Miss Du Prel frankly, "so I came away."

The young men laughed. "If only everybody could go away when he was
bored," cried Hadria, "how peaceful it would be, and what small
tennis-parties one would have!"

"Always excepting tennis-parties at _this_ house," said Hubert
Temperley.

"I don't think any house would survive," said Miss Du Prel. "If people
do not meet to exchange ideas, I can't see the object of their meeting
at all."

"What a revolutionary sentiment!" cried Temperley, laughing. "Where
would society be, on that principle?"

Hadria was called away, at that moment, and the group politely wavered
between duty and inclination. Temperley and Miss Du Prel strolled off
together, his vast heig