[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chinese Water Torture Cell

r nearly half a minute, insists he be released before he drowns, but the Fonz surprises everyone present by successfully escaping without assistance. According to the episode's opening credits, all magic tricks during the episode, including the milkcan escape, were performed without special effects.

In the spring of 1980, John R. Hall (author, blogger, magician) (stage name Keoni - pronounced key-OH-nee) purchased a Chinese Water Torture Cell from Tony Spina of Tannen's Magic Shop (a magicians supply company in New York City) and performed the escape on 5 October 1980 for broadcast television's PM Magazine. The Chinese Water Torture Cell purchased by Keoni was represented by Tannen's as a duplicate of the cell constructed for Doug Henning's live television broadcast on NBC. Like Doug Henning's performance, Keoni's escape ended with a twist, when the curtain around the cell was lowered, the cell was empty and Keoni retook the stage by running from the back of the theaters and down the aisles back to the stage.

In the 1980s, the English magician Paul Daniels reproduced the illusion for his television show, with his son Martin Daniels as the performer. This performance of the illusion was intended to be as near as possible to the original illusion, sourcing from photographs and plans of the original. The replica "Houdini Water Torture" escape, as seen on The Paul Daniels Magic Show, is now owned by of Merlins of Wakefield, who plan to exhibit it in a museum of magical props and memorabilia.

Escape artist Steven Baker performed the Water Torture Cell for many years, including a performance on Dick Clark's LIVE Wednesday.

Escape artist Kristen Johnson performs a water cell escape that was inspired by Houdini's trick. Johnson's stunt is significantly different in that she remains in full view of the audience throughout the escape. She performed her 1,000th water torture cell on November 4, 2012, at the Atlanta Motor Speedway and is known in the industry as doing a legitimate three minute plus breath hold in the water torture cell. Johnson has performed her version at NBA half time shows and has been seen on ESPN's SportsCenter.

During a FOX special called Breaking the Magician's Code: Magic's Biggest Secrets Finally Revealed, the Masked Magician told the audience how a version of this trick is done.

Different versions of the device have been featured in Houdini biography films, such as Houdini (Paramount, 1953), The Great Houdinis (1976) and the Turner TV-movie Houdini.

A simple 'headfirst dive' version was depicted in the film The Escape Artist.

A similar, but simpler immersion escape is featured in the 2006 movie The Prestige.

In 2003, 2012, 2013, and again in 2016, Chicago magician Dennis Watkins performed the Chinese Water Torture Cell while playing the role of Harry Houdini in Death and Harry Houdini produced by the [House Theatre of Chicago]. Watkins' interpretation of the Water Torture Cell is performed within 5 feet of the audience, and is performed in a cell that is 2'x 2'x 6', which leaves almost no room for maneuvering. Watkins has performed the illusion nearly 100 times, including public performances at Chicago's Navy Pier, as well as in earlier versions of Death and Harry Houdini.

In 2006, actor Orlando Seale did a version of a water torture cell for the TV show Ghost Whisperer, on the episode "Miss Fortune". Mark Cannon was the Underwater Escape Consultant.

In 2007, a failed imitation of the stunt was attempted by a character performed by the British actor Steve Valentine before the character passes out in the episode "You Don't Want to Know" of Fox's TV series House.

In September 2010, escape artist Alexanderia the Great, performed a smaller more confined version of the Chinese Water Torture Cell in full view (no curtains) that she calls UC or the Underwater Cell. A recent performance was in a front-page story for the Metrowest Daily newspaper.

In July 2013, celebrating the 100th anniversary, Richard Sherry and Female Escape Artist Dayle Krall, released their 21st Century Chinese Water Torture Cell. This cell is a variation of Houdini's original creation, with an inner cage and two outer crossbars.

In 2018 at the Old Royal Naval College, Greenwich, London, Dave Diamond performed the water torture cell escape in full view of the audience upside down in the traditional manner. This was part of a run of 12 shows called "Submersion" which was a mixture of circus, theatre and escapology. The show has since been performed on a number of occasions.

References

External links
Magician John R, Hall / Keoni - Chinese Water Torture Cell Review; The Wenatchee World, Oct., 5, 1980, p-2
The Chinese Water Torture Cell at 100. Wild About Harry
Building of the only working replica of Houdini's Chinese Water Torture Cell sherryandkrallmagic.com
A full view (no curtain used) water cell escape. alexanderiathegreat.com

Escapology
Water torture
Harry Houdini