[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cavalry scout

nnel Only” SI/ASI R7 in coordination with the Branch Manager for that CMF.
R8 – Airborne Cavalry

 Ranger

Skill qualification identifiers
3 – Advisor
P – Parachutist
Q – Equal Opportunity Adviser
8 – Instructor
X – Drill Sergeant
V – Airborne Ranger
G – Ranger
4 – Recruiter
D – SHARP Representative

Training and School information
All Cavalry Scouts attend OSUT (One Station Unit Training) or split ops training at Fort Moore in Georgia. The first phase, roughly 9 weeks, is basic military training. The second phase, roughly 7 weeks long, focuses on becoming a Scout for a total of 16 weeks. The U.S. Army is currently testing and considering extending training to a 22-week OSUT course. During these final weeks the future Cavalry Scouts are trained by Instructors as well as their Drill Sergeants.

The OSUT training was moved from Fort Knox, Kentucky, to Fort Moore, Georgia, in 2011. Prior to current phase, OSUT was offered in the form of Cavalry Scout training with Ranger Assessment Selection combination to better prepare Soldiers for The Global War on Terror. This program ended in 2008 in favor of unit based Ranger School recommendation.   

Training is broken into color-coded phases, during which recruits gain increasing freedom, based on the recommendations of their drill Sergeants. Training requires excellent physical and mental condition, and is mostly hands-on, in the field. Due to rigorous training an incoming recruit group can see a drop by half or more prior to graduation.

Notable Cavalry Scouts

 Ty Carter, Medal of Honor recipient
 Clinton Romesha, Medal of Honor recipient 
 Kenneth Preston, 13th Sergeant Major of the Army
 Michael S. Tucker, former Commanding General of the 2nd Infantry Division
 Larry D. Wyche, former Commanding General of Combined Arms Support Command
 John W. Troxell, 3rd Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
 Cav Trooper 19D (Captain), from the YouTube channel of the same name is a Cavalry officer previously in 1st Armored Division. Current Cavalry Troop Commander in US Army National Guard,

References

External links

 Goarmy.com
 About.com
 Us-army-info.com
 Information derived from Army Pamphlet 611-21

United States Army job titles
Cavalry