[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sager orphans

long journey lay before them. In piteous tones he begged the Captain to take charge of them and see them through." He was buried on the banks of the Green River in an improvised coffin. His body was later disinterred, and the coyote-gnawed bones were discovered a year later by subsequent travelers. 

Naomi, still weakened from childbirth and mourning Henry, now had all the responsibility for the seven children. She contracted Typhus shortly after Henry died. Suffering from heavy fever she became delirious and finally requested Dr. Dagon to squire the children to Marcus Whitman, a missionary in the Walla Walla Valley of what is now southeastern Washington. She died 26 days after Henry near present-day Twin Falls, Idaho. Her last words were "Oh Henry, if you only knew how we have suffered". As there was no lumber available, she was buried wrapped in a bedsheet. John, the oldest child, carved the words Naomi Carney Sager, age 37 out of a wooden headboard and thus marked the shallow grave. The children, the youngest three months and the oldest fourteen years, were left orphaned.

The adults of the wagon train collectively took care of the Sager children for the rest of the trip, with William Shaw and his wife Sally taking a particularly active role in caring for and feeding the older six children, and a different woman caring for the baby for the duration of the journey. The train ran out of food besides meat during the journey, and the Shaws split even their last loaf of bread with the Sager children.

Henrietta, the baby, was severely ill at the time they reached the Whitman mission, and they did not expect her to survive.

Marcus and Narcissa Whitman 

Marcus was a physician and a Protestant missionary. In 1836 he and Narcissa, together with a group of other missionaries, joined a caravan of fur traders and traveled west, establishing several missions as well as their own settlement. Located in the Walla Walla Valley on the northern end of the Blue Mountains near the present day city of Walla Walla, Washington, it was in the territory of both the Nez Percé and the Cayuse Native American tribes. The latter called it Waiilatpu (Why-ee-lat-poo, the 't' is half silent), which means "place of the rye grass" in the Cayuse language. Marcus farmed and provided medical care, while Narcissa set up a school for the Native American children.

In the early days, life was peaceful at the Whitman Mission, but within a year, it became clear that Whitman was not going to pay for the land where the mission had been established, as previously promised, and tensions between Whitman and the Cayuse mounted over Whitman's refusal to pay.  Other major sources of tension where that the Whitman's tried to prevent the Cayuse from spending time in their Mission House resulting in them providing lower quality medical care for the Cayuse than the did for white settlers, and the fact that after it became clear that the Cayuse preferred the Catholic missionaries to the Whitmans, Marcus began aggressively preaching damnation.

In 1837 Narcissa Whitman, aged 29, gave birth to a daughter, Alice Clarissa. Two years later, she was distracted for a moment and Alice drowned in the nearby Walla Walla River, having gone there to fill her cup with water. In an attempt to regain some sense of family she began taking care of other children. Soon four were in their custody, including the daughters of mountain men Joseph Meek and Jim Bridger. In early October 1844, the Independent Colony reached the Whitman Mission, and the Sager orphans found a new home with the Whitmans. Narcissa was keen to adopt Henrietta, but not the other children. Marcus wanted to adopt the boys. William Shaw told them that he had promised Naomi that he would try keep her children together in the same family, and made Marcus Whitman sign a contract to keep them together at least until Spring if they were going to adopt the three they wanted. By Spring, Narcissa had bonded with the other girls, and wanted to keep them too. In July 1845 Marcus obtained a court order giving him legal custody of all seven children.

Francis Sager soon decided to run away and join the settlers in the nearby valley because the Whitmans were strict disciplinarians, and he didn't like living with them. Others who lived with the Whitmans including Joe Lewis who later participated in the attack against them also left complaining of ill treatment.