[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Marcel Boulestin

rant Boulestin did not make a profit, and he was obliged to supplement his earnings by prolific writing of articles and books. Some of these were written in collaboration with Arthur Henry "Robin" Adair, a British food writer who in 1923 became Boulestin's companion, literary partner and translator.

Among those influenced by Boulestin's writing was Elizabeth David, who after his death emerged as the leading writer in Britain on the subject of food. In her books, she quoted with approval from several of Boulestin's works, including this, originally from What Shall We Have Today?: "The chief thing to remember is that all these soups … must be made with plain water. When made with the addition of stock they lose all character and cease to be what they were intended to be. The fresh pleasant taste is lost owing to the addition of meat stock, and the value of the soup from an economical point of view is also lost." David herself made the same point in many of her writings. She also drew attention to the wide range of Boulestin's culinary tastes. He was not an unswerving advocate of classic French recipes, and wrote with enthusiasm about curries, Basque pipérade, and Irish stew.

Boulestin was the first television chef, broadcasting for the BBC in television's earliest experimental days in 1937–1939. In his programmes, including the 1937 Cook's Night Out, he demonstrated not only French dishes such as Escalope de Veau Choisy, Crêpes d'été, and Rouget Marseillaise, but also deceptively simple food including salads, lamb kebabs, spring vegetables, and picnics.

Last years
In the summer of 1939, Boulestin and Adair were taking their customary holiday in a house that Boulestin had built in the Landes. When France was invaded by Germany, Adair was ill, and unable to escape; Boulestin remained with him. Adair was interned as an enemy alien by the Germans, and held first in Bayonne and then nearer Paris. Boulestin moved to Paris to be close to him, and died there after a brief illness, aged 65.

Adair was released at the end of the war and returned to England, becoming the cookery correspondent of the British magazine Harper's Bazaar. He died in 1956. Boulestin's restaurant continued under various managements until 1994.

Legacy
Joel Kissin launched a Cafe and Restaurant in London named after Boulestin and his eponymous Covent Garden restaurant in 2013.

Books
Le Pacte, dialogue (1899). Paris: Société libre des gens de lettres. 
Les Fréquentations de Maurice (Mouers de Londres) (1912)  a serial novel written under the pseudonym Sidney Place. Paris: Dorbon-aîné. 
Tableaux de Londres (1912). Collection of Boulestin's columns. Paris: Dorbon-aîné. 
Dans les Flandres Brittaniques (1916). Wartime memoir. Paris: Dorbon-aîné. 
Aspects Sentimentaux du Front Anglais (1916). Published under the pseudonym Bertie Angle. Paris: Dorbon-aîné. 
The Atnaeum: A Collection of Atrocities Committed at the Front (1917) Wartime memoir written under the pseudonym Bertie Angle. Privately printed edition of 20 copies. London.
New keepsake for the year 1921. Le Nouveau keepsake pour l'année 1921. (ed., 1920). London: Chelsea Book Club. 
Simple French Cooking for English Homes (1923). London: Heinemann. 
A Second Helping: or, More Dishes for English Homes (1925).  London: Heinemann. 
The Conduct of the Kitchen: How to Keep a Good Table for Sixteen Shillings a Week (1925). London: Heinemann. 
Herbs, Salads, and Seasonings (with Jason Hill, 1930). London: Heinemann. 
What Shall We Have To-Day? 365 Recipes for All the Days of the Year (1931). London: Heinemann. 
Potatoes: One Hundred & One Ways of Cooking (with A. H. Adair, 1932). London: Heinemann. 
What Shall We Have to Drink? (1933). London: Heinemann. 
The Evening Standard Book of Menus (1935). London: Heinemann. 
Savouries and Hors-d'oeuvre: One Hundred & Twenty-Seven Ways of Preparing (with A. H. Adair, 1932) London: Heinemann. 
À Londres, Naguère (1930). Paris: Librarie Arthème Fayard.  (translated with a new preface by A. H. Adair as Ease and Endurance Home and Van Thal 1948) 
Eggs: One Hundred & Twenty Ways of Cooking (with A. H. Adair, 1932) London: Heinemann. 
Having Crossed the Channel (1934). London: Heinemann. 
Myself, My Two Countries ... (1936). London: Cassell. 
The Finer Cooking, or, Dishes for Parties (1937). London: Cassell. 
Paris-Londres aux environs de 1900; souvenirs inédits (1945). Paris: Librarie Arthème Fayard.

Notes

References

External links
Covent Garden histories
Librairie Dorbon-aîné

French chefs
French food writers
1878 births
1943 deaths
French restaurateurs
French male non-fiction writers