[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thom Karremans

nflict. He also praised the strategic qualities of Mladic. His statements got Dutch secretary of Defence Joris Voorhoeve into political trouble.

Promotion after returning to the Netherlands
Shortly after his return to The Netherlands Karremans was promoted to full colonel, which caused controversy.

Complaints through the justice system against Karremans
In 2010, Hasan Nuhanović, a survivor of the Srebrenica genocide, and the relatives of the murdered Muslim electrician Rizo Mustafić (who was employed by Dutchbat during the genocide until he was turned over to the Serbs and killed) made a legal complaint of genocide and war crimes against Karremans, his former deputy Major Rob Franken, and human resources manager Berend Oosterveen for their transfer of the Muslim families to the Serbs. The Public Prosecution Service first concluded in a Nolle prosequi decision that Karremans and the other persons were not culpable. Through a special procedure (Dutch art. 12 Wet strafvordering), this decision was brought to court. On 29 April 2015, the court in Arnhem confirmed that Karremans and his secondants should not be prosecuted. Directly after the ruling, the lawyer Liesbeth Zegveld announced an appeal at the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). The ECHR declared the case inadmissable, on 30 August 2016, arguing that it "cannot find that there was any misrepresentation of facts or arguments by the Military Chamber of the Court of Appeal" in Arnhem.

After army career
After retiring from the army, Karremans and his wife moved to Spain, partly because of death threats in his native Netherlands. He wrote of his experiences at Srebrenica in Een puzzel van de werkelijkheid. He describes problems and dilemmas for him and his men during six months in Bosnia and six days of war. In the book, Karremans gives his view on the lack of support from the Dutch politicians at the time. He felt that he was forced by the Dutch politicians to fight with his hands behind his back.

See also
Dutchbat

References

Further reading

1948 births
Living people
Dutch colonels
Dutch officials of the United Nations
Graduates of the Koninklijke Militaire Academie
People from Apeldoorn
Royal Netherlands Army officers
United Nations personnel in the Bosnian War
United Nations Protection Force soldiers