[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# McCook Field

ased by the Air Service. The area encompassed the Wright brothers' flying field on Huffman Prairie. The Dayton Air Service Committee's offer far exceeded all others, and in August 1924 President Calvin Coolidge accepted Dayton's gift. This facility would later become Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.

In March of 1923 Time Magazine reported Thomas Edison sent Dr. George de Bothezaat a congratulations for a successful helicopter test flight. Edison wrote, "So far as I know, you have produced the first successful helicopter." The helicopter was tested at McCook's Field and remained airborne for 2 minutes and 45 seconds at a height of 15 feet.

McCook Field closed concurrent with the opening of the new Wright Field. Beginning in March 1927, 4500 tons of its materiel and assets were relocated by truck to the new base, with 85% moved in 1,859 truckloads by June 1. On April 1, 1927, demolition of McCook began with the former enlisted barracks, and by early 1928 all infrastructure at McCook had been completely leveled and cleaned up. The field was closed to landings of U.S. government aircraft on June 30 by order of the Air Corps, but by then all aircraft had shifted to the Fairfield Air Intermediate Depot's field. Ironically, one of the last flights received at McCook occurred after the order, on July 20, when the Atlantic-Fokker C-2 transport formerly based at McCook flew in from Milwaukee with Lts. Lester J. Maitland and Albert F. Hegenberger, two of its most distinguished alumni. The pair had successfully accomplished the first transpacific flight, flying the Bird of Paradise to Hawaii on June 28–29, and were on a triumphant tour whose stops included their hometowns and McCook, where the flight project started in 1919.

Achievements
 Aerial application, or "Crop Dusting"
 Aircraft pressurization
 Airport service vehicles
 Landing lights for aircraft
 The free fall parachute

See also

 List of Training Section Air Service airfields
Nemeth Parasol

References

 From Huffman Prairie to the Moon, Part 4: McCook Field 1917-1927
 Abandoned & Little-Known Airfields / Southwest Ohio: McCook Field

History of Dayton, Ohio
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
Airfields of the United States Army Air Corps