[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# MS Ambience

ansfer was cancelled following the sale of A'Rosa Cruises to Arkona in 2003. In late 2006 Regal Princess was due to transfer to the fleet of Ocean Village, but this too was cancelled. Instead, Regal Princess was transferred to the fleet of P&O Cruises Australia in late 2007.

2007–2020: Pacific Dawn

Following an extensive refurbishment, Regal Princess was renamed Pacific Dawn and christened on 8 November 2007 by Olympic gold medalist Cathy Freeman. Unlike the previous P&O Cruises Australia ships, Pacific Dawn had an all-white hull, to mark P&O's 75th anniversary in Australia. In December 2009, Pacific Dawn was moved to her new home port in Hamilton to allow  and  to be based in Sydney.

In May 2010, Pacific Dawn went into dry dock in Brisbane for extensive refurbishment.

In November 2014, the ship was dry-docked in Sydney, Australia for the addition of "The Edge" activities (including a zip-line, "crow's nest experience" and rock-climbing wall), a refurbishment of the Waterfront Restaurant and a cosmetic make-over of the pool deck. During this time it was known among the crew as "Salvatore Lupo's private yacht", after the captain who had served on the ship since its launch, making his way from 3rd officer to Captin while serving on the vessel over its history.

In November 2019, P&O Cruises Australia announced Pacific Dawn and sister ship, , were to be retired in February and April 2021, respectively, with both being replaced in November 2021 by the larger Pacific Encounter which is currently sailing as . Her final voyage under the P&O Cruises Australia was scheduled for 8 February 2021, travelling from Melbourne to Singapore. There the ship would be officially handed over to Cruise & Maritime Voyages (CMV), which intended to rename her Amy Johnson, after the first woman to fly solo from London to Australia.

Following the failure of CMV in July 2020, on 28 September P&O Cruises Australia announced that they had retired the ship earlier than planned as the pause in their schedules due to the COVID-19 pandemic offered an opportunity to sell her.

2020–2021: Satoshi

The ship built in 1991 for US$280 million, was sold in November 2020 to Marshall Islands company Ocean Builders Central Inc for about US$9.5 million, and named Satoshi, after the presumed creator of Bitcoin. In normal times a price of around $100 million would have been expected, but the 2020 Covid pandemic had caused cruise ship prices to collapse; many were scrapped. It was planned that the ship would be anchored in the Gulf of Panama  from the coast and host a floating community of 2,020 people.  Residents would purchase their cabins and have access to  the ship's amenities. The commercial spaces would be operated by individual companies which, in keeping with the crypto-spirit and technology incubator, would accept bitcoin for purchases. A 30-minute ferry ride by tender would connect the ship to Panama City. Ship operations would have been run by a spinoff company called Viva Vivas.
According to the owners and operators, due to the impossibility of securing insurance for the ship's proposed operation in Panama, she was intended to be sold in December 2020 to be scrapped at Alang, India. However, she stayed at Panama until March 2021, when it was reported that she had been sold to Wake Asset Co, a single-ship British Virgin Islands company, for operation by an unnamed European cruise start-up; the price was thought to have been $12m. She arrived at Bar, Montenegro to be laid up on 27 March.

2022-present: Ambience
On 13 May 2021 it was announced that the new operator would be British start-up company Ambassador Cruise Line, and the ship, to be renamed Ambience, would commence sailings in April 2022 after a refit. Initially she would be based at Tilbury, UK. In October 2021, she began her refit at the Viktor Lenac Shipyard near Rijeka. There were some supply-chain issues caused by the Russo-Ukrainian War, and the inaugural cruise, from Tilbury to Hamburg, was rescheduled to 20 April 2022.

On 26 May 2022, Ambience was detained briefly at Tilbury after a Port State Control inspection revealed deficiences in the fuel system. The ship was released the following day.

In 2023, Ambassador cruise line announced that Ambience will sail the grand round the world cruise in 2024.

Incidents and accidents

2001 grounding in Cairns 
While on a cruise from Sydney to destinations in Asia on 15 March 2001, Regal Princess experienced difficulties when entering the port of Cairns, due to high winds. While she made it safely to the harbour, it was decided to postpone her departure by eight hours, allowing the winds to subside and use more favourable tidal conditions. Despite these precautions Regal Princess was grounded while outbound from Cairns, but was able to free herself under her own power after just four minutes. The ship then returned to Cairns for preliminary inspections.