[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Socialist Youth (Chile)

es in several universities, where at that time a young woman Michelle Bachelet is remembered who approached the Socialist Youth influenced by the university leader Ennio Vivaldi, and by a young deputy and general secretary of the JS Carlos Lorca, both of whom were leaders of the University of Chile.

In 1971, the XX National Conference of the JS approved a program and an organic structure that would consolidate its unquestionable revolutionary, Marxist and Leninist profile. Under his direction, the JS presides over the Youth Popular Unity and maintains the unity of the Popular Movement from the youth level. This fact distances itself from what was promoted in the structure of the "Adult PS", which moved away from Marxism-Leninism represented by leaders such as Carlos Altamirano, and approached humanist Marxism promoted by leaders such as the former senator, academic and rector of the University of Chile Eugenio González Rojas, or by President Allende in the remembered speech "The Chilean road to socialism" from 1971.

Dictatorship and clandestinity 

After the Coup d'état in Chile of 1973, numerous young socialists came out to resist and heroically confronted the coup forces. Subsequently, the JS offered its best cadres for the reconstruction of the PS, becoming part of the leadership of the PS after the murder, exile, detention or disappearance of many of its members, such as Ricardo Lagos Salinas, Exequiel Ponce, Carolina Wiff, Michelle Peña and Carlos Lorca. In 1975 the names of those companions will be added to the list of those detained and disappeared by the dictatorship.

The Socialist Youth sacrificed its organic structure in the face of the need to recompose the historic Socialist Party, however, already in 1978 a leadership of the JS was articulated whose mission would be to recover its dimension organic. At this stage, the attacks of the dictatorship continually occur to prevent the reorganization of the young socialists. In this struggle, among others, Daniel Medel, Flavio in Nicaragua fall; However, after an arduous, historic effort, the JS inaugurated at the end of 1984 a new stage of its development: The XXI National Conference that concluded with the definition of its own organization, electing a Central Committee, a Political Commission and re-electing Carlos Lorca as Secretary General, but symbolically, since as long as his whereabouts were not known, a Subrogating Secretary General was empowered to replace him. At this crossroads appears a young socialist Bernardo Echeverría Vial (brother of the former right-wing Minister Fernando Echeverría), who was the head of the National Youth Commission of the PS and who after the coup d'état remained in the secrecy. After the disappearance of Carlos Lorca in 1975, Bernardo inherited the interim General Secretariat and was the one who reinstated it.

End of the dictatorship and transition to democracy

Once the dictatorship ended through the 1988 Chilean presidential referendum, the JS became an autonomous body of the Socialist Party of Chile, in a new political scenario diametrically different from the revolutionary past of the years when the Popular Unity was in government. In this context, participation in democracy in the different social movements that have been developing has been fundamental to advance profound changes to the Pinochet legacy, being behind demands in areas such as education, unions, sexual diversity, the environment, gender, regionalism, indigenous, constitutional, among others. It had a leading role during the 90's, such as the rearticulation at the national level of communal groups, student brigades, as well as commands for the campaigns of the Transition governments. Some well-known militants of the time were Álvaro Elizalde, president of the FECH in 1993 and president of the JS in the year 1996, and Freddy Ponce interim president of the FECH in 1994 who despite not achieving the minimum quorum, won the election against the then socialist Marco Enríquez-Ominami.

It is worth highlighting the importance of the JS during the presidential campaigns of Michelle Bachelet for the first term and second government, who have always characterized by being on the ground energetically. Additionally, Chile had the well-known 2006 student protests in Chile, which were demonstrations led by Chilean secondary students in favor of the right to education, in response to the privatization of the Chilean education system imposed by the dictatorship. The main JS leaders of these mobilizations were the spokespersons César Valenzuela and Karina Delfino, who subsequently presided over the Socialist Youth in 2010 and 2013 respectively.

Notable people
 Michelle Bachelet, Chile's former president. 
 Carlos Lorca, Chilean physician, deputy for Valdivia province, and General Secretary of the Socialist Youth.
 Ennio Vivaldi, Former rector of the University of Chile between 2014 and 2022.

See also
International Union of Socialist Youth (IUSY)