[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Black Company (novel)

rd, killed at the beginning of the novel
One-Eye – moderately talented wizard Brother of Tom-Tom
Elmo – the Sergeant
Otto – longtime member of the Black Company
Hagop – longtime member of the Black Company
Raven – a new recruit with a grudge against the Limper
Darling – a young girl rescued by Raven

The Empire
The Lady – reputed (by Soulcatcher) to be so cold-hearted, she killed her own twin sister.  Wife of the Dominator.  Learned the ritual of Taking and therefore can take and empower her own wizards.
The Ten Who Were Taken
Soulcatcher, female – the Lady's sister. She and the Limper are implacable enemies. In an extreme case of sibling rivalry, she also schemes to overthrow the Lady.
Shapeshifter, male – the first of the Ten to be Taken. As the name implies, he can assume the appearance of other people (and animals), the better to bring about their downfall. He is Soulcatcher's closest ally among the Taken and hates the Limper even more than she does. He is shown to be fond of infiltrating enemy lines and weakening them from within.
The Limper, male – feverishly homicidal and totally lacking in finesse
The Howler, male – a small, dirty bundle of rags who howls at random intervals
Stormbringer, female – able to conjure storms and cause geological events
Bonegnasher, male – eight feet tall, extremely strong and grotesquely muscled
The Hanged Man, male – also called Crooked Neck because his neck is stuck in a crooked manner and swollen
Moonbiter, unknown gender
Nightcrawler, unknown gender
The Faceless Man, male

The Rebels 
 The Circle of Eighteen (some are not mentioned by name)
 Raker, male – the rebel equivalent of the Limper, sharing many of his less desirable qualities.
 Whisper, female – a military genius, as well as the strongest wizard in the Circle. Later taken by the Lady to replace the Limper after his treachery.
 Harden, male
 Feather, female
 Journey, male
 Moth
 Sidle
 Linger
 Trinket
 Parcel
 Whiskers
 Roper
 Tamarask

External links
 Black Company Maps
 Black Company Volume 1 Text At Google Books
 
 

Fiction about comets
Novels by Glen Cook
1984 American novels
American fantasy novels
Dark fantasy novels
Tor Books books