[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Newar caste system

Pradhan'. Pañchthariya and especially Chatharīya reject the claims of such pretensions and prevent caste endogamy and commonality with such groups. To these historically established and upper Srestha ranks, Chārtharīya's efforts remain unacknowledged and hence are not counted among the Srestha fold.

Jyāpu
Jyāpu group, consisting of several sub-castes or clan- Maharjan, Dangol, Awale, Suwāl, Ngakhusi, Duwal, Singh, Kumha/Prajāpati, Khusa/Tandukār, etc. and form close to 45% of the entire Newar population. Exclusive religious preference largely disappears from this occupational caste which consists of people who numerically form the majority population among the Newars —the farmers and agriculturalists— and are collectively called the Jyapu. Notable exception of the religious syncretism is that of the Bhaktapur Jyapus who maintain their exclusive affiliation to Hinduism and invite the Rajopadhyaya as their purohit, where as most Kathmandu and Lalitpur Jyapus invite the Vajracharya. Jyapu literally means "competent worker" in Nepal Bhasa language. They have provided significant contribution to Nepali society and have been seen as the backbone of the Newar community. They are believed to be the true descendants of the various original settlers of the Kathmandu Valley—Licchavis, Ahirs, Kirata, Gopalas. Among others, the Jyapus were turned into Shudra class-caste category during the Malla period. But the Jyapus remained united and never allowed themselves to be pushed into the position of serfdom of slavery as many non-Hindu tribes in the plains were forced to do. They had a long history and strong internal social organization. They have been in control of the important means of production, namely the agricultural land, for generations. Jyapus are among the most progressive farmers in Nepal. Today, Jyapus have succeeded in placing themselves at the centre of Newar society, thanks partly to the growing popularity of the Indigenous adivasi discourse. Today, they picture themselves as the most genuine Newars, the epitome of their society and culture. Through their community organisations, they increasingly speak on behalf of all Newars.

Ek-thariya
Ek-thariya caste groups include over 12 specialized hereditary occupational caste groups who also follow syncretic Hindu-Buddhist religion. Sāyami (Manandhar), Kāu (Nakarmi), Nāu (Nāpit), Chitrakār, Ranjitkar, Khusa (Tandukar), Balami, among others. Further down the caste hierarchy, caste groups like the Khadgi/Shahi, Dhobi (Rajak), Kapali, Dom/Kulu, Podhya and Chama:khala were previously regarded as "water-unacceptable" or "untouchable" groups, part of the socially and economically marginalized groups with their own set of priests, rituals and a culture apart.

Buddhamargi
Similarly, the Buddhamargi castes can be broadly divided into four major groups, viz. Gubhāju-Baré, Urāy, Jyāpu, and the Ektharīya. Of these four groups, the first two form the core of the Buddhamargi Newars.

Gubhāju-Baré/Bañdā
Gubhāju-Baré/Bañdā, consists of two sub-groups, Gubhajus or Vajrachāryas (‘Master of the Diamond [Way]’, i.e. Tantric preceptor) and Barés or Śākyas formerly called Śākyabhikṣu (‘Buddhist monk’) or Śākyavaṃśa (‘of the Śākya’s, i.e. the Buddha’s, lineage’). The Vajrachāryas and Śākyas form the priestly functionaries.

The Vajrācāryas are placed at the top of the hierarchy among the Buddhamargi Newars. They are the purohits or family priests. A special subgroup of the Gubhaju is called Buddhacharya who are traditional priests of Swayambhunath temple, the most sacred temple for Buddhamargis. The Shakyas, who are next to the Vajracharyas in the caste hierarchy, can also be called Vihar priests. Along with the Vajrācāryas, Shakyas have the right of hereditary membership of the bahas or viharas. However, while the Vajracharyas' exclusive occupation is priesthood, the Shakyas follow the hereditary occupation of goldsmiths.

Urāy
Urāy or Udās, consists of nine main subgroups, viz Tuladhar, Bania, Kansakar, Tamo (Tamrakar), Sthapit, Shikhrakar, Silakār, Selālik, Sindurākār etc. The Urāy/Udas group is composed of the castes of hereditary merchants and artisans. The name 'Uray' is said to have been derived from the Sanskrit term "upāsaka" meaning "devout layman". They are a prominent community in the business and cultural life of Kathmandu and have played key roles in the development of trade, industry, art, architecture, literature, and Buddhism in Nepal and the Himalayan region. Some Udasas, like the Tuladhars, are among the most prosperous and wealthy people in Nepal, and used to have property interests in places like Lhasa, Darjeeling, Kalimpong and various other trade centres outside Nepal. They were the primary carriers of trade between Nepal and Tibet.