[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# International Justice Mission

ersation with a senior IJM staff member, a reporter was told that IJM staff needed to rescue a set number of victims and secure a set number of prosecutions every year. Another staff member said that IJM staff were denied pay rises or were at risk of being sacked if they did not reach these targets.

Brothel Raids in Thailand
In the year 2000, and again in 2003,  IJM instigated a raid on a karaoke restaurant in Chiang Mai, Northern Thailand.  Thai police later twice raided the establishment, arresting and subsequently deporting the women who worked there.  IJM characterized the operations as successful "rescues". In another raid in 2001, IJM sent men undercover to a brothel, used hidden cameras and produced a 25-page document alleging specific violations of Thai law. Police raided the brothel and detained 43 female sex workers.  Some of the women detained by police said that they were working voluntarily and had not wished to leave the brothel. About half the group subsequently escaped; some apparently feared deportation to Burma.
After the 2000 and 2003 raids on the Chiang Mai restaurant, IJM requested other local non-governmental organizations to provide translation assistance when its employees realized that the sex workers were not Thai citizens. After providing translation assistance, the Shan Women's Action Network said that the raids had grossly violated the women's human rights. The group pointed out that although IJM had twice conducted a raid on the same establishment, it failed to protect the women from prosecution and further victimization. In later years IJM moderated its initial assertion that the Thailand brothel raids were successful. In a 2012 article, Holly Burkhalter, IJM's vice president for Government Relations, characterized the 2003 raid as "one of the few IJM cases in which law enforcement treatment of non-coerced adults did not meet IJM standards."

Maligning local organizations
IJM organized brothel raids have been accused of interfering with public health and HIV-prevention efforts, some of which took place at the brothels themselves.  In response, IJM has stated that sex workers can instead go to clinics for such information.
When Thai organization EMPOWER raised questions about the televised brothel raid, Empower staff say IJM accused their organization of supporting pimps.
The International Union of Sex Workers criticizes IJM's work as being focused on Christianity, and for presenting anyone involved in sex work, coerced or not, in the role of a victim awaiting salvation.  It states that crackdowns drive prostitution further underground. Others have criticized brothel raids more generally as an ineffective way to fight human trafficking, likely to cause harm to those allegedly rescued, and disruptive of public health efforts.

IJM response to criticism
After The Nation published a series of critical articles about IJM in 2009, IJM published a document to clarify and explain its mission and tactics. Its piece says that IJM operations with local police are focused solely on securing for children and trafficked women the right to be free from commercial sexual exploitation and that IJM supports HIV-prevention efforts.  It says that it has introduced protocols to local law enforcement that address the appropriate treatment of non-trafficked adults who work in the brothel with minors. IJM has refused to share these protocols with reporters.
IJM states that it supports "placing child trafficking victims in secure environments from which they cannot leave".

IJM's Holly Burkhalter, Vice President of Government Relations and Advocacy, formerly with Human Rights Watch and Physicians for Human Rights, wrote an article, "Sex Trafficking, Law Enforcement and Perpetrator Accountability", presenting IJM positions on these issues. It was published in the first issue of the new journal, Anti-Trafficking Review, published in June 2012.

References

External links 
 Global Website of International Justice Mission
 The Freedom Common by IJM Government Relations & Advocacy Team
 Official Website of IJM Institute for Biblical Justice
 Tackling slavery with the International Justice Mission at The Cavalier Daily
 India: the bond of freedom - Interview with Saju Mathew at the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime
 200th Anniversary of the Abolition of the Transatlantic Slave Trade at United States Department of State

International human rights organizations
International non-profit organizations
Anti–child pornography organizations
Charities based in Washington, D.C.
Child-related organizations in the Philippines
Foreign charities operating in the Philippines
Organizations that combat human trafficking
Christian organizations established in 1997
Christian charities based in the United States