[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 88th Illinois Infantry Regiment

e Confederate army was mounting a mass assault, the commander of one of the advanced brigades begged Wagner to order a withdrawal, but was refused. Consequently, the Confederate attackers routed Wagner's two brigades, and by closely following the fleeing soldiers, broke into the main Union defenses.

Wagner's mob of fleeing Union soldiers, mixed with their Confederate pursuers, swept away Schofield's front-line units, creating a  gap. Because Opdycke's brigade recently had rearguard duty, all the men's rifled muskets were stacked loaded with the bayonets fixed. The soldiers snatched up their weapons and spontaneously made a dash for a second line of breastworks in front of them. Waving his cap, Lieutenant Colonel Smith galloped to the front of the combined 74th and 88th Illinois and led his men forward. Major Thomas W. Motherspaw of the 73rd Illinois yelled, "Forward 73rd to the works!" Seeing his soldiers already rushing ahead, Opdycke belatedly shouted, "First Brigade, forward to the works." In a furious melee, Opdycke's soldiers battled their way through the Carter House buildings to occupy the second line of breastworks. Opdycke's men were joined there by rallied men from the front-line units and Wagner's routed regiments. Packed behind the breastwork four and five men deep, the front rank fired their weapons and passed them back to the rear ranks to be reloaded. The Confederates tried several times to retake the second line, but all attempts were bloodily repulsed in some of the most vicious fighting of the war. The soldiers manned several abandoned cannons and blasted the Confederates at the first line breastwork only  distant. By the end of the day, Opdycke's brigade took 394 Confederate prisoners and captured nine enemy colors.

At the Battle of Nashville on 15–16 December 1864, Smith led the combined 74th and 88th Illinois, Opdycke directed the 1st Brigade, Brigadier General Washington Lafayette Elliott commanded the 2nd Division, Brigadier General Thomas J. Wood led the IV Corps, and Thomas directed the Army of the Cumberland. The other units in the brigade were the 36th, 44th, and 73rd Illinois, 24th Wisconsin, and 125th Ohio Infantry Regiments. The brigade lost 8 killed, 39 wounded, and 4 missing at Nashville. On the first day, Elliott's division attacked after the Confederate defenses had been breached elsewhere and the skirmish line was able to capture the enemy position. On the second day, the soldiers of Wood's corps, seeing the left flank Confederate defenses collapse, attacked spontaneously and seized the line of breastworks in their front. The Confederate defenders either surrendered or fled.

After pursuing the defeated Confederate army, the 88th Illinois moved to Huntsville, Alabama, where it camped from January to March 1865. The regiment joined an expedition to Bulls Gap, Tennessee, and other East Tennessee operations from 15 March to 22 April. The unit returned to Nashville in May. The 88th Illinois was mustered out at Nashville on 9 June and arrived in Chicago on 13 June. The soldiers received their final pay and discharge on 22 June 1865. During service, the regiment lost 5 officers and 98 enlisted men killed and mortally wounded and 4 officers and 84 enlisted men by disease, for a total of 191 fatalities. During its existence, 1,542 men were enrolled in the regiment.

See also
List of Illinois Civil War Units
Illinois in the American Civil War

Notes

References

Further reading

Units and formations of the Union Army from Illinois
1862 establishments in Illinois
1865 disestablishments in Illinois
Military units and formations established in 1862
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865