[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 37]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

The elephant instantly withdrew his trunk,
and, without showing any marks of resentment, went on with the rest to
drink; but, after he had quenched his thirst, he collected a large
quantity of the dirtiest water he could find in his trunk--which I have
already told you is capable of holding many gallons--and, when he passed
by the tailor's shop, in his return, he discharged it full in his face,
with so true an aim, that he wetted him all over, and almost drowned
him; thus justly punishing the man for his ill-nature and breach of
friendship."

"Indeed," said Harry, "considering the strength of the animal, he must
have had a great moderation and generosity not to have punished the man
more severely; and therefore, I think it is a very great shame to men
ever to be cruel to animals, when they are so affectionate and humane to
them."

"You are very right," said Mr Barlow; "and I remember another story of
an elephant, which, if true, is still more extraordinary. These animals,
although in general they are as docile and obedient to the person that
takes care of them as a dog, are sometimes seized with a species of
impatience which makes them absolutely ungovernable. It is then
dangerous to come near them, and very difficult to restrain them. I
should have mentioned, that in the Eastern parts of the world, where
elephants are found, the kings and princes keep them to ride upon as we
do horses; a kind of tent or pavilion is fixed upon the back of the
animal, in which one or more persons are placed; and the keeper that is
used to manage him sits upon the neck of the elephant, and guides him by
means of a pole with an iron hook at the end. Now, as these animals are
of great value, the keeper is frequently severely punished if any
accident happens to the animal by his carelessness. But one day, one of
the largest elephants, being seized with a sudden fit of passion, had
broken loose; and, as the keeper was not in the way, nobody was able to
appease him, or dared to come near him. While, therefore, he was running
about in this manner, he chanced to see the wife of his keeper (who had
often fed him as well as her husband), with her young child in her arms,
with which she was endeavouring to escape from his fury. The woman ran
as fast as she was able; but, finding that it was impossible for her to
escape, because these beasts, although so very large, are able to run
very fast, she resolutely turned about, and throwing her child down
before the elephant, thus accosted him, as if he had been capable of
understanding her: "You ungrateful beast, is this the return you make
for all the benefits we have bestowed! Have we fed you, and taken care
of you, by day and night, during so many years, only that you may at
last destroy us all? Crush, then, this poor innocent child and me, in
return for the services that my husband has done you!" While she was
making these passionate exclamations, the elephant approached the place
where the little infant lay, but, instead of trampling upon him, he
stopped short, and looked at him with earnestness, as if he had been
sensible of shame and confusion; and, his fury from that instant
abating, he suffered himself to be led without opposition to his
stable."

Tommy thanked Mr Barlow for these two stories, and promised for the
future to use more discretion in his kindness to animals.

The next day Tommy and Harry went into the garden to sow the wheat which
Harry had brought with him, upon a bed which Tommy had dug for that
purpose.

While they were at work, Tommy said, "Pray, Harry, did you ever hear the
story of the men that were obliged to live six years upon that terrible
cold country (I forget the name of it), where there is nothing but snow
and ice, and scarcely any other animals, but great bears, that are ready
to eat men up?" _Harry._--Yes, I have. _T._--And did not the very
thoughts of it frighten you dreadfully? _H._--No; I cannot say they did.
_T._--Why, should you like to live in such a country? _H._--No,
certainly; I am very happy that I was born in such a country as this,
where the weather is scarcely ever too hot or too cold; but a man must
bear patiently whatever is his lot in this world. _T._--That is true.
But should you not cry, and be very much afflicted, if you were left
upon such a country? _H._--I should certainly be very sorry if I was
left there alone, more especially as I am not big enough, or strong
enough, to defend myself against such fierce animals; but the crying
would do me no good; it would be better to do something, and endeavour
to help myself. _T._--Indeed I think it would; but what could you do?
_H._--Why, I should endeavour to build myself a house, if I could find
myself materials. _T._--And what materials is a house made of? I thought
it had been impossible to make a house without having a great many
people of different trades, such as carpenters and bricklayers.
_H._--You know th