[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shlomo Helbrans

cusations by people whose family members had joined the community Lev Tahor.

Helbrans subsequently fled to Canada, where in 2003 he was granted refugee status, claiming that he would be persecuted in Israel due to his religious and political beliefs. Some members of his community fled to Guatemala.

Marriage and children 
Much about Shlomo's married life and children is shrouded in mystery. Helbrans married his wife Malka Azulai also a baalas teshuva from Kiryat Ata in an arranged match, when he was 17 years old. Years later Malka left the cult and escaped to Israel after she was severely beaten by community members after speaking out against rampant child abuse within the community. Their daughter Sarah Feige Teller also escaped the community with her two daughters after she had been excommunicated for two years. Sarah Feige is the wife of Aron Aryeh Teller, a radical and head of the yeshiva in Lev Tahor. Miriam Helbrans, Shlomo’s second daughter died when she was 24 years old after suffering from a severe allergic reaction to sesame. Her brother and the current leader of Lev Tahor Nachman allegedly forced her to consume bread containing sesame.

Lev Tahor 

Helbrans' 200-person community, Lev Tahor, is considered extreme and radical by other Jewish groups. In Israel, it is nicknamed "Jewish Taliban" and "the Taliban sect." The group has followers in Israel, particularly in the city of Bet Shemesh, in addition to Europe, the U.S., Canada, and Guatemala.

Another convicted rabbi, Eliur Chen, had found refuge in the Lev Tahor community while fleeing the authorities.

During November 2013, Quebec authorities summoned Lev Tahor members to court on allegations that their homeschooling was not compliant with Quebec's education standards. The court case also called for the community to release the 14 children of one of Helbrans' sons due to his previously having left the community. A few days later, community members fled to Ontario, settling in the municipality of Chatham-Kent. On 27 November 2013, a youth court judge in Quebec ordered that 14 children from the community be placed temporarily in foster care, undergo medical exams, and receive psychological support. The hearing in the St. Jérôme courthouse, took place in the absence of the Lev Tahor parents, who sent a lawyer instead. The order was not immediately enforced because the parents, one of whom was Helbrans' son who had previously left the community, were residents of Ontario, triggering a long legal battle. However, on 3 February 2014, an Ontario Judge decided to send back the 14 children to Quebec. While pending an appeal, the parents and children left Canada to Guatemala and other locations. Some were returned, triggering another legal battle, still pending.

Death 
On Friday 7 July 2017, Helbrans was found drowned in a river in the Mexican state of Chiapas. His body was pulled from the river by rescue forces on Friday afternoon after he was swept away by strong currents while performing the Mikve Mitzva before Shabbat. He was 54 years old. Insiders believe that he committed suicide as evidence of his abuse became more evident and were close to being published. In a letter he wrote to his followers shortly before his death he writes that he has no reason to live anymore since they had rejected him from serving as their Rebbe.

Successor 
Nachman Helbrans succeeded his father as the leader of Lev Tahor. Escapees from Lev Tahor describe Nachman as ruling with an iron fist espousing views even more extreme than his father. Nachman put a ban on the consumption of fish, meat or eggs, allowing his followers to eat only bread, fruits and vegetables. Nachman also instituted marriage arrangements for twelve year old boys and girls. Allegedly Nachman was also directly involved in his sister Miriam's death, as he forced her to eat bread that contains sesame although she was known to have a severe allergic reaction to sesames. Nachman attributed her death to a lack of faith in him. His motives for causing her death remain unknown.

See also 
 Haredi burqa sect

References

Further reading

External links 

Stephen J. Dubner, The Vanishing. New York Magazine
 Jacob Zick and Dr. Bernard Fryshman, Is justice and liberty for all? offering different approach about Rabbi Helbrans' conviction.
 Shay Fogelman, Article about Lev Tahor and Shlomo Helbrans: Part I: Pure as the driven snow, or hearts of darkness? 9 March 2012Part II: When you're on the path of truth, you don't care what others say. 16 March 2012. Haaretz.
 Hannah Katsman, What Lev Tahor admits? 18 December 2013. The Times of Israel.