[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# August 1976

killed, along with two adults, when a train struck the church bus they were on in the town of Stratton, Nebraska.  Eight other children on the bus were hospitalized.  All of the victims were local residents being driven by their pastor and his wife to Sunday school at the Stratton Church of Christ.

August 9, 1976 (Monday)
Operation Eland, an invasion of Mozambique by Rhodesia to combat the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army (ZANLA) began with an attack on the Pusgue refugee camp near Nyadzonya, and ultimately killed 1,028 people, most of them civilians.
Giulio Carlo Argan, a professor of art history at Sapienza, Rome's nearly eight-century-old university, was selected as the first Communist mayor of Rome, "completing a Marxist takeover of the major city halls in Italy" in the wake of recent legislative elections in which the PCI had won the second highest number of seats in the Chamber of Deputies.  The Communists agreed to forgo participation in the national government in return for support by the Christian Democracy party and the Italian Socialist Party for rule on the local level.  Argan, who took a leave from his job as the University of Rome, was selected by vote of the City Council rather than by direct vote.
The bodies of two murder victims, Pamela Buckley and James Freund, were found near Lake City, South Carolina and would remain unidentified for more than 40 years until discovered through the work of the DNA Doe Project.
Born: 
Jessica Capshaw, American TV actress and a regular on The Practice and in Grey's Anatomy; in Columbia, Missouri
Rhona Mitra, English TV actress and a regular on The Practice and in Boston Legal; in Paddington, London 
Died: José Lezama Lima, 65, Cuban novelist and poet

August 10, 1976 (Tuesday)
Hurricane Belle hit Long Island and southern New England. Twelve people were killed by the storm and damage was $100 million.
The government of Australia established the resort town of Yulara in the Northern Territory in order to protect Ayers Rock and provide tourist accommodations near the Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park.  The proclamation was made by Evan Adermann, the Minister for the Northern Territory.
India's Parliament convened in New Delhi with most of the opposition party members boycotting the session.  Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's Congress Party held the overwhelming majority of the 521 seats in Lok Sabha, with 352 overall or more than two-thirds, and planned to enact amendments to the constitution to enhance Mrs. Gandhi's authoritarian powers.
Annie, one of the most successful musicals of the 1970s, was given its premiere performance, making its debut off-Broadway at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Connecticut, with 13-year-old Kristen Vigard in the title role and 12-year-old Andrea McArdle as one of Annie's fellow orphans.  After one week, McArdle replaced Vigard as Annie prior to the musical's Broadway debut on April 21, 1977.
Died: 
Ray "Crash" Corrigan (stage name for Raymond Benitz), 74, American film actor and stuntman known for the "Tucson Smith" and "Crash Corrigan" series of B-movie westerns 
Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, 91, German expressionist painter
Jimmy Casella, 52, American gambler and primary money-winner of the 1974 World Series of Poker, died of a drug overdose.