[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# History of Kentucky

g the Revolutionary War, there were no other major actions by the Cherokee and allied tribes in Kentucky through the end of the Cherokee-American wars. Kentucky's only fort, Fort Nelson was abandoned in 1784 pursuant to the signing of the Treaty of Paris (1783) ending the threat of foreign invasion.

By the Treaty of Holston (1791), the Cherokee Nation became a suzerainty Under the United States. The Cherokee-American wars were finally ended by the follow-on Treaty of Tellico Blockhouse, Nov. 1794.

Kentucky County and District of Kentucky
By act of the Virginia Assembly on Dec 31, 1776, effective 1777, Fincastle County was abolished, and the largest piece west of the Big Sandy River and Tug Fork, became Kentucky County with seat Harrod's Town. There was no mention in the act of the Transylvania claim. Colonel John Bowman had been appointed by Virginia governor Patrick Henry as Kentucky County's military governor. He arrived in spring of 1775 with 2 companies of militia totaling 100 men with a charter to establish a civilian government.

Colonel John Bowman was the first commissioned Kentucky Colonel in 1775. Daniel Boone, Richard Henderson and others, particularly land speculators, founders of distilleries, lawyers and other prominent businessmen on the frontier had previously come to be called colonels. The distinction was often unclear in the early years, because some, like Boone, held the military rank of colonel at some time. In some cases, historians have designated commissioned colonels as patriot colonels to distinguish military officers from land speculators. In Kentucky, military governors of counties held the rank of colonel, a practice that was copied later by other states, contributing to the iconic phrase, Kentucky Colonel. In 1895, Governor William O'Connell Bradley commissioned the first honorary Kentucky Colonels, though the civil honorific title had been long used since frontier times. It is the highest civic honor bestowed by the State of Kentucky. The most recognizable Kentucky Colonel is arguably Harlan Sanders, founder of Kentucky Fried Chicken who was commissioned an honorary Colonel in 1935 by Governor Ruby Laffoon. Sanders received a second commission in 1949. As of 2020, there have been approximately 350,000 commissioned honorary Kentucky Colonels.

Over the next 15 years, Kentucky County was subdivided into 9 counties, but continued to be administered  as the District of Kentucky until its admission to the union as the state of Kentucky.

Louisville and the forts of the Ohio

Louisville was founded during the latter stages of the American Revolutionary War by Virginian soldiers under George Rogers Clark, first at Corn Island in 1778, then Fort-on-Shore and Fort Nelson on the mainland.  The town was chartered in 1780 and named Louisville in honor of King Louis XVI of France.

Statehood

Several factors contributed to the desire of Kentuckians to separate from Virginia. Traveling to the Virginia state capital from Kentucky was long and dangerous. The use of local militias against Indian raids required authorization from the governor of Virginia, and Virginia refused to recognize the importance of Mississippi River trade to Kentucky's economy. It forbade trade with the Spanish colony of New Orleans (which controlled the mouth of the Mississippi), important to Kentucky communities.

Problems increased with rapid population growth in Kentucky, leading Colonel Benjamin Logan to call a constitutional convention in Danville in 1784. Over the next several years, nine more conventions were held. During one, General James Wilkinson unsuccessfully proposed secession from Virginia and the United States to become a Spanish possession.

In 1788, Virginia consented to Kentucky statehood with two enabling acts, the second of which required the Confederation Congress to admit Kentucky into the United States by July 4, 1788. A committee of the whole recommended that Kentucky be admitted, and the United States Congress took up the question of Kentucky statehood on July 3. One day earlier, however, Congress had learned about New Hampshire's ratification of the proposed Constitution (establishing it as the new framework of governance for the United States). Congress considered it "unadvisable" to admit Kentucky "under the Articles of Confederation" but not "under the Constitution", and resolved: