[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# American Realism

ies, and the agonizing cries of the wounded. War as detailed by his pen was a cruel and sordid business.

Others
Other writers of this sort included Theodore Dreiser, Henry James, Jack London, Upton Sinclair, John Steinbeck, Margaret Deland, Edith Wharton, and J. D. Salinger.

Journalism

Jacob Riis

Jacob August Riis (1849–1914), a Danish-American muckraker journalist, photographer, and social reformer, was born in Ribe, Denmark. He is known for his dedication to using his photographic and journalistic talents to help the less fortunate in New York City, which was the subject of most of his prolific writings and photographic essays. He helped with the implementation of "model tenements" in New York with the help of humanitarian Lawrence Veiller. As one of the early photographers to use flash, he is considered a pioneer in photography.

Art Young
Art Young (1866–1943) was an American cartoonist and writer. He is most famous for his socialist cartoons, especially those drawn for the radical magazine The Masses, of which Young was co-editor, from 1911 to 1917. Young started as generally apolitical, but gradually became interested in left wing ideas, and by 1906 or so, considered himself a socialist. He became politically active; by 1910, racial and sexual discrimination and the injustices of the capitalist system became prevalent themes in his work.

Music

James Allen Bland
James A. Bland (1854–1919) was the first prominent African-American songwriter and is known for his ballad, Carry me Back to Old Virginny. "In the Evening by the Moonlight" and "Golden Slippers" are well-known songs that he wrote, and he wrote other hits of the period, including "In the Morning by the Bright Light" and "De Golden Wedding". Bland wrote most of his songs from 1879 to 1882; in 1881, he left the U.S. for England with Haverly's Genuine Colored Minstrels. Bland found England more rewarding than the United States and stayed there until 1890; either he stopped writing songs during this period or he was unable to find an English publisher.

C.A. White
C.A. White (1829–1892) wrote the hit song "Put Me in My Little Bed" in 1869, establishing him as a major songwriter. White was a songwriter of serious aspirations: Many of his songs were written for vocal quartets. He also made several attempts at opera. As half-owner of the music publishing firm White, Smith & Company, he had a ready outlet for his work, but it was his songs that supported the publishing firm and not the other way around. White did not scorn writing for the popular stage—indeed he wrote a song for the pioneering African-American stage production Out of Bondage—but his principal output was for the parlor singer.

W.C. Handy
W. C. Handy (1873–1958) was a blues composer and musician, often known as the "Father of the Blues". Handy remains among the most influential of American songwriters. Although he was one of many musicians who played the distinctively American form of music known as the blues, he is credited with giving it its contemporary form. While Handy was not the first to publish music in the blues form, he took the blues from a not very well known regional music style to one of the dominant forces in American music. Handy was an educated musician who used folk material in his compositions. He was scrupulous in documenting the sources of his works, which frequently combined stylistic influences from several performers. He loved this folk-musical form and brought a transforming touch to it.

Scott Joplin
Scott Joplin (c. 1867/68–1917) was an African-American musician and composer of ragtime music and remains the best-known figure. His music enjoyed a considerable resurgence of popularity and critical respect in the 1970s, especially for his most famous composition "The Entertainer".

See also
Realism (arts) (includes "naturalism")
Armory Show
American modernism
Photo-Secession
Modernism
Ashcan School
Visual arts of Chicago
Social realism

References

Sources
Brooks, Van Wyck (1955). John Sloan. New York: Dutton.
Doezema, Marianne, and Elizabeth Milroy (1998). Reading American Art. New Haven: Yale University Press. (pps. 311) .
Loughery, John (1997). John Sloan: Painter and Rebel. New York: Holt. 
Pohl, Frances K. (2002). Framing America: A Social History of American Art. New York, N.Y.: Thames & Hudson. (pp. 302–312) .

External links
American Paintings in The Metropolitan Museum of Art, a fully digitized 3 volume exhibition catalog
Music: New Generations of Songwriters
Literature: American Realism
Literature: American Realism

Realism (art movement)
American art movements
 01
Cultural history of the United States
Modern art
Culture of New York City