[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Noh-Varr

’t have sexual identities, only sexual acts) it’s how the comic treats him, visually: in a medium dominated by the male gaze, he’s not only sexy, he’s sexualized."

Noh-Varr also has received significant discussion in scholarly literature such as Lyubansky, Sweeney, and Beam & Clay-Buck.

Accolades 

 In 2013 ComicsAlliance ranked Noh-Varr 2nd in their "50 Sexiest Male Characters in Comics" list.
 In 2014, Gizmodo ranked Noh-Varr 9th in their "10 Times When Comics And Movies Sexualized Male Superheroes" list.
 In 2016, Special Broadcasting Service included Noh-Varr in their "10 queer superheroes who changed the face of comics" list.
 In 2018, CBR.com ranked Noh-Varr 7th in their "Every Captain Marvel Ever" list.
 In 2019, CBR.com ranked Noh-Varr 5th in their "All The Captain Marvels" list and 5th in their "Every Single Young Avenger Ever" list.
 In 2021, Screen Rant ranked Noh-Varr 5th in their "10 Most Powerful Members Of The Young Avengers" list and 5th in their "10 LGBTQ+ Marvel Heroes That Should Join The MCU" list.
 In 2021, CBR.com ranked Noh-Varr 10th in their "10 Most Powerful Young Avengers" list.
 In 2022, Screen Rant ranked Noh-Varr 15th in their "15 Most Powerful Guardians Of The Galaxy Members In The Comics" list and included him in their "10 Best Hercules Love Interests In Marvel Comics" list.

Literary reception

Volumes

Marvel Boy (2000) 
According to Diamond Comic Distributors, Marvel Boy #1 was the 21st best selling comic book in June 2000. Marvel Boy #2 was the 50th best selling comic book in July 2000.

Tom Spurgeon of The Comics Reporter called Marvel Boy #1 a "refreshingly goofy take on superhero source material," saying, "Morrison displays uncharacteristic restraint in Marvel Boy. The overriding emphasis seems to be on making certain everything works first as a comic book adventure story rather than as an idea virus, magic spell, pop culture cluster bomb, or whatever grandiloquent description writers like Morrison use for comics that goose superhero formulae with a formal twist and one or two declarations about the state of reality. By making less obvious the stabs at relevance and deeper meaning, particularly those he sometimes attempts through sentiment and affectation, Morrison with Marvel Boy hewed closer to the Lee/Kirby model of superhero storytelling than anything he had done to date. It is a good fit. What the series resembles most closely is the later, Kirby-dominated and slightly tossed-off seeming issues of Fantastic Four. Like Kirby, Morrison focuses on the weirdness of the superhero concept itself, leaving many of the out-there science fiction ideas, the bizarre combat technologies and hints of radical, identity-focused politics, to sizzle at the perimeter of the page." David Harth of CBR.com ranked the Marvel Boy comic book series 6th in their "10 Marvel Comics That Read Like Sci-Fi Epics" list, asserting, "Grant Morrison's time at Marvel was short and tumultuous, but they produced brilliant tales. Their opening salvo was Marvel Boy, with artist J. G. Jones. Following the genetically engineered alternate reality soldier Noh-Varr on a quest for revenge, Morrison and Jones created a sci-fi superhero epic like nothing else at Marvel. With all it has to offer, Marvel Boy should be Marvel's next big sci-fi superhero movie. It's a sci-fi revenge tale full of big concepts, breathtaking action, and brilliant characters, turning the Marvel sci-fi story formula on its ear." Rosie Knight of Nerdist included the Marvel Boy comic book series in their "8 Must-Read Marvel Knights Stories" list.

In other media

Video games 
 Noh-Varr appears as a playable character in the video game Marvel Avengers Academy, voiced by Andy Field.
 Noh-Varr / Protector appears as a playable character in the video game Lego Marvel's Avengers.

Collected editions

References

External links
 Marvel Boy (Noh-Varr) at the Marvel Universe
 
 
 

Captain Marvel (Marvel Comics)
2000 comics debuts
Avengers (comics) characters
Comics characters introduced in 2000
Characters created by Grant Morrison
Fictional bisexual men
Kree
Marvel Comics aliens
Marvel Comics characters who can move at superhuman speeds
Marvel Comics characters with superhuman durability or invulnerability
Marvel Comics characters with superhuman strength
Marvel Comics extraterrestrial superheroes
Marvel Comics extraterrestrial supervillains
Marvel Comics LGBT superheroes
Marvel Comics limited series
Marvel Comics male superheroes
Marvel Comics male supervillains
Marvel Comics child superheroes
Teenage superheroes