[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Stuart London

lications from this period include Britain's first daily newspaper, The Daily Courant, which began publication in London in 1702, and could be bought near the Fleet Bridge; and The Tatler, which was first published in 1709, and contained society gossip and caricatures of prominent figures.

Theatre 

The playwright William Shakespeare was working in London at the beginning of this period, and some of his most famous tragedies come from the 1600s, such as Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth. Within ten days of taking the throne, King James I gave Shakespeare's theatre troupe his royal patronage, making them the "King's Men". In 1608, the company moved into a site at Blackfriars and built their first indoor theatre. It had 700 seats, was lit by candlelight, and had a roof, meaning the company could put on plays during winter. In 1623, after Shakespeare's death, his colleagues John Heminges and Henry Condell published a collected version of his plays known as the First Folio. 

James I was particularly fond of a type of theatre called a masque. These featured courtiers, or occasionally even the king himself, dressed as allegorical concepts and included song, dance, and live animals. They were the only mode of theatre at the beginning of the period open to women. The playwright Ben Jonson also wrote masques, such as Satyr and The Masque of Blackness. The opening of the New Exchange on 11 April 1609, a market and retail centre, was celebrated with a masque, The Entertainment at Britain's Burse, and the Lord Mayor's Show, which had been discontinued for some years, was revived by order of the king. In 1610, Prince Henry was made Prince of Wales. The event was celebrated by another masque, Tethys' Festival at Whitehall Palace and a pageant on the River Thames, London's Love to Prince Henry.During the Interregnum period, masques and maypoles were prohibited. All London playhouses, including the Globe Theatre, were closed in 1642, and either converted to other uses or destroyed. The theatrical producer William Davenant was able to circumvent the law on theatre by adding music to his play and advertising it as a concert. It became The Siege of Rhodes, the first true English opera, and premiered in London in 1656. It was also the first English production to use scenery. After the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660, Thomas Killigrew and William Davenant were given an exclusive royal licence to stage plays in London. They formed the King's Company and the Duke's Company, the two main acting troupes in the capital. The King's Company initially had their home at Gibbon's Tennis Court in Vere Street, and in 1663 opened their Theatre Royal in Bridges Street, which burned down in 1672. The Duke's Company was first based in the Salisbury Court Theatre, then in the Duke's Theatre in Lincoln's Inn Fields, and from 1671 in the Dorset Garden Theatre. In 1682 the two companies merged to form the United Company, putting on operas at the Dorset Garden Theatre and straight plays at the Theatre Royal. In 1695, a group of actors from the United Company split off to form their own company at the Duke's Theatre.

Successful playwrights of the Restoration period included John Dryden, George Etherege, Charles Sedley, William Wycherley, Thomas Shadwell, Thomas Otway, John Vanbrugh, William Congreve, and Aphra Behn (often called the first British woman to make a living from writing). The most famous actor of the Restoration period was Thomas Betterton. Women actresses began to appear onstage in London from 1661, and the most famous are Nell Gwyn, Elizabeth Barry and Anne Bracegirdle.

The Italian theatrical form of commedia dell'arte came to London, featuring half-masked actors or puppets playing recurring characters such as Harlequin, Columbine, and Pierrot. The traditional Punch and Judy puppet show grew out of the commedia dell'arte tradition, and was first recorded in London in 1662.

Sports 
Bowling was incredibly popular, with bowling greens and alleys set up in the Fleet Prison, and even on a boat floating on the Thames. The diarist Samuel Pepys played with his wife in 1661. Its popularity came from it being one of the few sports that men and women could play together, and many people gambled large sums on the outcome of games.

Pepys also attended a fencing display at the New Theatre near Lincoln's Inn Fields. These were popular forms of entertainment, and the fencers used swords that were only slightly blunted, so both participants were liable to be covered in blood by the end. Wrestling matches took places in Moorfields or in the Bear Garden on Bankside, and saw some of the largest amounts of gambling outside of horse races. In 1667, a team of West Countrymen won a wrestling competition against a team of northerners in St. James's Park for a cash prize of £1000.

Music