[Source: PubMed]

15. Int J Epidemiol. 2021 Jul 9;50(3):866-879. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyaa247.

War across the life course: examining the impact of exposure to conflict on a 
comprehensive inventory of health measures in an aging Vietnamese population.

Zimmer Z(1), Fraser K(1), Korinek K(2), Akbulut-Yuksel M(3), Young YM(2), Toan 
TK(4).

Author information:
(1)Global Aging and Community Initiative, Department of Family Studies and 
Gerontology, Mount Saint Vincent University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
(2)Department of Sociology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(3)Department of Economics, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
(4)Family Medicine Department, Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.

BACKGROUND: The majority of evidence indicates that exposure to war and other 
traumatic events continue to have negative impacts on health across the life 
course. However, existing research on health effects of war exposure primarily 
concentrates on short-term impacts among veterans in high-income countries sent 
elsewhere to battle. Yet, most wars situate in lower- and middle-income 
countries, where many are now or will soon be entering old age. Consequently, 
the current burden of exposure to war has ignored an important global 
population.
METHODS: The Vietnam Health and Aging Study (VHAS) is a longitudinal study 
designed to examine historical exposure to highly stressful events during the 
American War. Two modes of data collection, involving a sample of 2447 
individuals aged 60+ years in northern Vietnam, took place between May and 
August 2018. Using this first wave of data, we generate indexed measures of war 
exposure and analyze their associations with a set of 12 health outcomes, 
accounting for confounding variables.
RESULTS: Results indicate that greater exposure to three types of war exposure 
(death and injury, stressful living conditions, and fearing death and/or injury) 
in earlier life is associated with worse health in later-life across a large 
number of health outcomes, such as number of diagnosed health conditions, mental 
distress, somatic symptoms, physical functioning, post-traumatic stress symptoms 
and chronic pain.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings support a life course theory of health and point to 
long-term effects of war on health that require detailed attention.

© The Author(s) 2021; all rights reserved. Published by Oxford University Press 
on behalf of the International Epidemiological Association.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyaa247
PMCID: PMC8530162
PMID: 33395485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]