[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 33]
# Constructive set theory

ed above, the subcountability property cannot be adopted for all sets, given the theory proves  to be a set.
The theory has many of the nice numerical existence properties and is e.g. consistent with Church's thesis principle as well as with  being subcountable. It also has the disjunctive property.

 with Replacement instead of Collection has the general existence property, even when adopting relativized dependent choice on top of it all. But just  as formulated does not. The combination of schemas including full separation spoils it.

Even without , the proof theoretic strength of  equals that of . And  proves them equiconsistent and they prove the same -sentences.

Intuitionistic Z
Again on the weaker end, as with its historical counterpart Zermelo set theory, one may denote by  the intuitionistic theory set up like  but without Replacement, Collection or Induction.

Intuitionistic KP
Let us mention another very weak theory that has been investigated, namely Intuitionistic (or constructive) Kripke–Platek set theory .
It has not only Separation but also Collection restricted to -formulas, i.e. it is similar to  but with Induction instead of full Replacement. The theory does not fit into the hierarchy as presented above, simply because it has Axiom schema of Set Induction from the start. This enables theorems involving the class of ordinals. The theory has the disjunction property.
Of course, weaker versions of  are obtained by restricting the induction schema to narrower classes of formulas, say . The theory is especially weak when studied without Infinity.

Sorted theories

Constructive set theory
As he presented it, Myhill's system  is a theory using constructive first-order logic with identity and three sorts, namely
sets, natural numbers, functions. Its axioms are:
 The usual Axiom of Extensionality for sets, as well as one for functions, and the usual Axiom of union.
 The Axiom of restricted, or predicative, separation, which is a weakened form of the Separation axiom from classical set theory, requiring that any quantifications be bounded to another set, as discussed.
 A form of the Axiom of Infinity asserting that the collection of natural numbers (for which he introduces a constant ) is in fact a set.
 The axiom of Exponentiation, asserting that for any two sets, there is a third set which contains all (and only) the functions whose domain is the first set, and whose range is the second set. This is a greatly weakened form of the Axiom of power set in classical set theory, to which Myhill, among others, objected on the grounds of its impredicativity.

And furthermore:
 The usual Peano axioms for natural numbers.
 Axioms asserting that the domain and range of a function are both sets. Additionally, an Axiom of non-choice asserts the existence of a choice function in cases where the choice is already made. Together these act like the usual Replacement axiom in classical set theory.

One can roughly identify the strength of this theory with a constructive subtheories of  when comparing with the previous sections.

And finally the theory adopts
 An Axiom of dependent choice, which is much weaker than the usual Axiom of choice.

Bishop style set theory
Set theory in the flavor of Errett Bishop's constructivist school mirrors that of Myhill, but is set up in a way that sets come equipped with relations that govern their discreteness.
Commonly, Dependent Choice is adopted.

A lot of analysis and module theory has been developed in this context.

Category theories
Not all formal logic theories of sets need to axiomize the binary membership predicate "" directly. A theory like the Elementary Theory of the Categories Of Set (), e.g. capturing pairs of composable mappings between objects, can also be expressed with a constructive background logic. Category theory can be set up as a theory of arrows and objects, although first-order axiomatizations only in terms of arrows are possible.

Beyond that, topoi also have internal languages that can be intuitionistic themselves and capture a notion of sets.

Good models of constructive set theories in category theory are the pretoposes mentioned in the Exponentiation section. For some good set theory, this may require enough projectives, an axiom about surjective "presentations" of set, implying Countable Dependent Choice.

See also

 Axiom schema of predicative separation
 Constructive mathematics
 Constructive analysis
 Constructive Church's thesis rule and principle
 Computable set
 Existence Property
 Diaconescu's theorem
 Epsilon-induction
 Hereditarily finite set
 Heyting arithmetic
 Impredicativity
 Intuitionistic type theory
 Law of excluded middle
 Ordinal analysis
 Subcountability

References

Further reading 
 
 Aczel, P. and Rathjen, M. (2001). Notes on constructive set theory. Technical Report 40, 2000/2001. Mittag-Leffler Institute, Sweden.