[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Swig Program in Jewish Studies and Social Justice

nversation.  His commitment to transforming conflicts between different cultures and faiths is one that really resonates with the university." In fact, in 2006, Hahn Tapper had been formally recognized by former President Bill Clinton for his conflict resolution work with teens and college students.

The Program Today
Hahn Tapper redesigned the program, and in August 2008, drawing on his expertise in the fields of conflict resolution, social identity theory, and social relations between and within the Jewish, Muslim, Israeli, and Palestinian communities, he relaunched the program as the Swig Program in Jewish Studies and Social Justice. The program continues to be the only program in the world to formally link the fields of Social justice and Jewish studies.

The program engages students in both theoretical and practical applications of social justice and activism rooted in the Jewish traditions. On campus the program offers a wide range of Jewish studies courses, a minor in Jewish Studies and Social Justice (JSSJ), an annual Social Justice Lecture, an annual Human Rights Lecture, an annual Social Justice Passover Seder, intermittent films, presentations, and workshops,  a study-abroad course, and Hebrew San Frrancisco: Ulpan. In summer 2020 they expanded their summer offerings with the launch of Arabic San Francisco. The program offers a wide range of educational programs focusing on social justice issues, open to the USF community and beyond. Recordings of a number of these events can be found on the program's YouTube channel , all of which have been fitted with closed captions Closed captioning.

The program’s ethos is built upon the following four ideas, all of which are integral to the Jewish community’s vast histories and identities:
 Activism – each of us has a role in the process of shaping the world as it is into the world it can be.
 Intersectionality – all forms of marginalization and oppression are inter-linked.
 Social Identity – each of us has multiple social identities, whether a reflection of our age, citizenship, ethnicity, gender, nationality, physical ability, physical appearance, religion, sexual orientation, socio-economic standing, race, or something else entirely. Some identities are acquired; others, we’re born with.
 Social In/justice – our social identities have a great deal of meaning for us and others. At times they give us access to opportunities. At other times they deny us entry to jobs, homes, and even food. The world in which we live currently functions as if our identities are real. Most of us live as if there is a specific definition to community X or Y, despite the fact that identities are not static but constantly shifting.

Some of the program's most innovative and interesting courses include:
 "Contemporary Political Prophets"
 "Forgiving the Unforgivable? The Ethics of Apologies"
 "Funny Jews: Shaping Jewish American Identities through Comedy"
 "Holocaust and Genocide"
 "The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict through Literature and Film"
 "The Jewish American Experience through Graphic Novels"
 "Jewish and Islamic Mysticism"
 "Jews, Judaisms, and Jewish Identities"
 "Queering Religion"
 "Refugees and Justice"
 "Social Justice, Activism, and Jews"
 "Social Justice and the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict"

To access a number of articles on the Swig Program in Jewish Studies and Social Justice as well Op-Eds written by JSSJ faculty members, see their "In the Media" page online.

Judaisms: A Twenty-First-Century Introduction to Jews and Jewish Identities

In 2016, Hahn Tapper published Judaisms: A Twenty-First-Century Introduction to Jews and Jewish Identities with University of California Press, which won a National Jewish Book Award, considered by some to be the "most prestigious" award in Jewish literature. A number of articles have been written about the book's unique approach to the study of Jews and Judaisms.

2018 to 2021 - Fortieth Anniversary, New Faculty, New Rabbi-in-Residence, and the Future

In April 2018, the Swig Program in Jewish Studies and Social Justice celebrated its fortieth anniversary with a celebration held in front of a standing room only audience of 1,600 attendees at San Francisco's prestigious synagogue, Congregation Emanu-el. The keynote speaker for the event was Jake Tapper, CNN's host of The Lead, State of the Union, and their Chief Washington Correspondent. Tapper's talk, "Speaking Truth to Power," as well as the entire program of the event, can be found here, on the Youtube Channel of the Swig Program in Jewish Studies and Social Justice.