[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Dental education throughout the world

ow recognition of another state's license so as to procure a license either via "licensure by credentials" or "licensure by reciprocity."  Although a national licensure exam has yet to be made, the American Dental Association (ADA) has worked with education and examining groups to form such an exam.

A dentist may go on for further training in a dental specialty which requires an additional 1 to 7 years of post-doctoral training. There are 9 recognized dental specialties.  These include Endodontics (root canal treatment), Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology, Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology, Pediatric Dentistry, Periodontics (gums), Prosthodontics (complicated dental reconstruction), Orthodontics (moving teeth), Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery (surgery of the mouth and face), and Dental Public Health. There is no specialty in esthetic dentistry or implantology, and no additional training is required for a dentist to make the claim of being an esthetic or cosmetic dentist. Dentists are forbidden to claim that they are specialists in areas of practice in which there is no recognized specialty. They may limit their practices to a single area of dentistry, and claim that their practice is limited to that area.

Any general dentist may perform those procedures designated within the enumerated specialties if they deem themselves competent. Many general dentists train in certain aspects of the above specialties such as the placement and restoration of dental implants, advanced prosthodontics and endodontics, and have limited or heavily focused their practices to these areas. When a general dentist performs any procedure that falls within the realm of a specialty, they are expected to perform with the same level of expertise as a certified specialist and are legally held to such standards with respect to any issues of malpractice.

Asia

Australia 

Australian dentistry is overseen by the Australian Dental Council and the Dental Board of Australia The professional body for dentists is the Australian Dental Association.
Dentists trained in Australia must meet the entry requirements of one of the Australian institutions offering dental courses, and then complete the required full-time academic training leading to a dental degree. If dentists wish to specialize, they must complete extra study after having had clinical experience.

, in order to practice dentistry in Australia you must obtain registration and licensing from the nationalized Dental Board of Australia. Generally, the only persons immediately entitled to apply to be registered as dentists are persons holding the qualifications of DDS, BDS, BDSc, BDent, BDentSc, DMD, MDent, or GradDipDent from an accredited Australian and New Zealand university. Usually registration will not be granted to a foreign graduate until he or she has passed the ADC examinations and/or completed a 2-year advance standing program in order to obtain a locally accredited dental qualification

The Universities of Queensland, Adelaide, Western Australia, Griffith, James Cook, Charles Sturt and Latrobe all offer undergraduate dental degree courses of 5 years in length. Sydney University offers a graduate entry program which is 4 years duration and requires a previous bachelor's degree for admission. Melbourne University also has a 4-year graduate entry dental program starting in 2011. The qualifications awarded by these schools satisfy the formal academic requirements for registration.

Australian dental schools include but are not limited to: 
University of Adelaide
University of Melbourne
University of Queensland
University of Sydney
University of Western Australia
La Trobe University
Griffith University
James Cook University
Charles Sturt University

Hong Kong 

To become a dentist in Hong Kong, one must complete the 6-year Bachelor of Dental Surgery (B.D.S.) course in The University of Hong Kong. Students learn basic health sciences, dental sciences under a problem-based learning curriculum. Besides, formal training and supervised practice are prescribed. It is accepted that only after 5 years of such training would the trainees achieve a superior level of professional competence.

Graduates can enter general practice or pursue a specialist M.D.S. degree after gaining one to two years of working experience.

Before the dental school was established in the University of Hong Kong (in 1980), most of the practicing dentists obtained their dental degree from the Philippines.

India 
In India, dentistry is through the BDS (Bachelor of Dental Surgery) course, which includes 4 years of study and 1-year compulsory internship. As of 2010, there were a total of 291 colleges (39 run by the government and 252 in the private sector) offering dental education. This amounts to an annual intake of 23,690 graduates. Dental education in India is regulated by the Dental Council of India.