[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Grand River land dispute

loud the new contempt order, giving protesters until March 22 to leave the site.
 March 22 – Protesters continue to occupy the site beyond court-ordered deadline.
 March 28 – Justice Marshall issues new order of criminal contempt and warrant of arrest for protesters blockading Douglas Creek Estates.

April 
 April 4 – Several hundred people, including some who had bought homes in Douglas Creek Estates, gather in Caledonia to demand an end to the occupation.
 April 19 – Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty says the land dispute will be settled in a "peaceful manner".
 April 20 –  The Ontario Provincial Police (OPP) conduct a pre-dawn raid at 4:30 AM. 21 protesters are arrested over the course of the day, with 16 during the initial raid. 
 April 20 – Several hundred people from Six Nations, some of whom are masked and armed with bats, axes and hockey sticks, return to the site in the morning, and a further busload of supporters from other reserves arrive in the evening. The police retreat and the protesters reclaim the site and set up roadblocks along the access street. During the evening, the protesters put hundreds of tires across the highway, and light them on fire. In addition, they set fire to a wooden bridge over the nearby railway tracks. Firefighters are unable to extinguish both fires because the fire chief is concerned the OPP are not able to adequately protect his men. Several boxes of documents from the land developer's office inside a model home are taken, and some are tossed into a bonfire.
 April 20 – In solidarity with the protesters at Kanonhstaton, a group of Mohawks raise a banner and Mohawk flags on a bridge near Montreal, blocking traffic for about a half hour.
 April 21 – Several members of the Mohawks of the Bay of Quinte First Nation light bonfires by the CN rail line near Tyendinaga Mohawk Territory. CN freight trains are blocked, and Via Rail announces that its trains will be replaced by shuttle buses. In the afternoon, CN announces that it has obtained an injunction to clear blockage from its rail lines.
 April 21 – Talks begin between the government of Canada, the government of Ontario, the Six Nations Elected Council, and the Haudenosaunee Confederacy Chiefs Council, seeking to resolve the dispute. This is the first time since the establishment of the elected council in 1924 that the federal government has negotiated with the Confederacy Chiefs.
 April 22 – The parties sign an agreement to continue talking, with a view of settling the land claim. They agree to each appoint a representative within two weeks.

 April 24 – About 3000 Caledonia residents hold a rally demanding an end to the occupation. Later in the evening, several hundred residents confront OPP and Six Nations occupiers at the blockade.
 April 25 – Haldimand County Mayor Marie Trainer says in an interview with CBC Newsworld that the residents of the town are being hurt economically by the protest and "don't have money coming in automatically every month". The protesters take this as an insult, believing she implied they all received provincial welfare. Trainer denies this, but does not clarify what she did intend by the comment. The municipal council quickly distances itself from her comments, voting to replace her with deputy mayor Bob Patterson as their spokesperson on the issue.
 April 28 – Caledonia residents once again gather to demand an end to the blockade.

 April 30 – The provincial government appoints former premier David Peterson to help negotiate a settlement in the conflict.

May