[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Shadow Raiders characters

on

Planet Bone
Planet Bone is known for is earth and rich soil and is mostly made up of swamps. A common thing to do on bone is to kill the current emperor and take over. Most of the people on Planet Bone are reptilian. Planet Bone is the fourth and final planet to join the Interplanetary Alliance.

Emperor Femur
The Emperor of Planet Bone, Femur is a short, fat, obnoxious reptilian creature who is constantly scheming of new ways to benefit himself.  He is a very crafty, vile man with self-gratification as the only thing on his mind.  Despite being self-indulgent, Femur cares for his planet and does indeed think of the citizens of Bone, and he willingly and paternally looks after the last surviving plant from Planet Jungle.  Not a fighter by any means, Femur instead chooses to hide in the midst of battle, and in the crucial battle of Remora he led his troops in a retreat when things got rough.  He is also very flirtatious with the ladies, particularly Jade (much to her disdain). He genuinely cares for Pyrus and serves as a surrogate uncle-type figure, trying to keep him out of battles and being upset at the thought of being assassinated without patching things up with Pyrus. He is voiced by Garry Chalk.

Pelvus
Femur's royal servant, the flamboyant Pelvus is just as vile as his emperor.  He is always plotting Femur's demise, as according to a popular rhyme on Bone, "Ya snag the throne, ya rule on Bone/He who dies is food for the flies" . Femur always escapes every death trap Pelvus sets for him. Quite incompetent, Pelvus is also a coward, something he and Femur have in common.  However, Pelvus keeps a wide array of weaponry on him at all times.  He is voiced by Scott McNeil.

Sternum
Femur's brother and the former emperor of Bone. Rather than risk his brother making an attempt on his life and being the next in line for the throne, Sternum ordered Femur to be executed. Femur then bribed the guards to release him, and had Pelvus drug Sternum, thus securing the throne in typical Bone fashion. But instead of killing his brother, Femur had Sternum shipped off to the Prison Planet. He became quite a hero on the Prison Planet, leading a group of escaped prisoners; he showed a noble air and formed a quick relationship with Jade. When he returns to Planet Bone, he appears to reconcile with his brother. In the Prison Planet, Sternum was tortured, and when, Femur says, "Hey, you're still alive. It couldn't have been that bad". Sternum thinks that Femur obviously does not understand how bad it was. Sternum obviously would rather die than to go through the endless torture again, and almost kills Femur for his misunderstanding. When he returns to the Cluster after sacrificing the Prison Planet to teleport the Beast Planet away, Sternum asks Pelvus on information of the Alliance, implying that he intends to take over. Pelvus relays this to Femur but the Emperor believes that his brother has changed, and brushes off the notion. Sternum appears less reptilian and more human than other Bone characters. As he was designed to look muscular and human, his tendrils under his mouth are so short that it looks like he has a chin with three clefts. He is voiced by John Payne.

Planet Tek
Planet Tek only appears in a few scenes at the beginning of the series and in flashbacks. Based on Tekla's appearance, the people of the planet would’ve been made of metal, or chrome, making them look robotic.

Tekla
The sole survivor and princess of Planet Tek, she was found by Graveheart and Cryos, who vowed to help her in any way they could.  After slipping into a coma, she was possessed by Lamprey, who used her body to try and destroy the Alliance.  Regaining herself, Tekla became a valuable member of the Alliance thanks to her broad knowledge.  Though she is not a very powerful fighter, she can hold her own in battle.  She is voiced by Donna Yamamoto.

Voxx
Tekla's mechanical sphere that floats around her and fills her in on the surroundings and any other information she may need to know.  It is always at her side, and learns anything it can possible in the process.  In "Night on the town" Tekla describes Voxx as an "Action Computer" when Jade refers to it as a toy. This is likely an in-joke, as Voxx's shape and size are identical to Planet Tek from the original War Planets toy line.

The Beast Planet
The Beast Planet is the main antagonist of the show. By using its ability to create Beast Drones  and alongside its Beast Generals, they crush the defenses of a planet so that the Beast Planet can eat it.