[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Lavie Tidhar

hing Clinics", unpublished 

"Substantively different" versions of these stories form the basis of the fix-up novel Central Station.

Short fiction

Non-fiction
 Art and War. Co-written with Shimon Adaf. United Kingdom: Repeater Books, 2016.

Trivia

Tidhar is referenced in several works of fiction:

 In Adam Roberts's Jack Glass (2012), "Tidharian" is referred to as a futuristic spoken language. "It was English Dia was speaking, after all: not Potpourri or Tidharian or Pidgin-Martian."
 In Christopher Farnsworth's Killfile, the Mossad agent friend of the protagonist is named Tidhar after the author (though it is briefly mentioned he has a different first name). "I am on guard, because Tidhar is no one you want to mess with, even by accident." ... "Thanks to Tidhar, I'm piggybacking on Mossad tech." .... "I should tell Tidhar, if I ever see him again..."
 In the Shimon Adaf short story "third_attribute", the protagonist visits Tidhar's childhood home as he contemplates writing a thesis on Tidhar's Hebrew poetry. "He wanders along the Kibbutz pathways, but doesn’t become any wiser. A battered copy of Remnants of God, Tidhar’s only poetry book in Jewish [Jewish? He knew Jewish once!] held under his arm."
 In Nick Wood's Azanian Bridges (2016), Tidhar's Osama is mentioned as a banned book in the alternate history South Africa of the novel.
 In Charlie Kaufman's Antkind (2020), protagonist B. Rosenberger Rosenberg is portrayed as a former fan of Tidhar (along with Isaac Asimov and Harlan Ellison) turned against him. ""Yes," she screams, "Tidhar! You loved Tidhar!"" ... "I try to call after her, but I cannot. I cannot be a man who countenances Tidhar."

References

Further reading
 
 Pei-chen Liao (2020). "Worlding Alternate Histories of the Post-9/11 Era: The Transnational Trend, Normalization, and the Dynamics of Memory", in Post-9/11 Historical Fiction and Alternate History Fiction, Palgrave Macmillan.
 
 Morgan, Glyn (2020). "Reimagining Horror: The Plot Against America (2004), Farthing (2006), A Man Lies Dreaming (2014), and J (2014)", in Imagining the Unimaginable: Speculative Fiction and the Holocaust, Bloomsbury Academic Press. 
 McFarlane, Anna (2019). "Time and Affect After 9/11: Lavie Tidhar's Osama: A Novel". In Sideways in Time: Critical Essays on Alternate History Fiction, ed. Glyn Morgan and C. Palmer-Patel, Liverpool University Press.

External links
 Lavie Tidhar's home page
Locus interview, 2013
2012 interview by Gabrielle Gantz 
 Interview regarding Lavie Tidhar's upcoming novel The Bookman

1976 births
Living people
Analog Science Fiction and Fact people
Asimov's Science Fiction people
Israeli science fiction writers
World Fantasy Award-winning writers
Writers from London
Alternate history writers
Jewish writers
Israeli male short story writers