[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Music in psychological operations

er House Trevor Mallard's used the Parliament speakers to play music such as Macarena by Los Del Rio and Barry Manilow's back catalogue.

Royalty payments

The Guardian reported that the US military may owe royalty payments to the artists whose works were played to the captives.

Musicians' protests

On 9 December 2008 the Associated Press reported that various musicians were coordinating their objections to the use of their music as a technique for softening up captives through an initiative called Zero dB.
Zero dB is an initiative against music torture set up by legal charity Reprieve, which represents over thirty prisoners in Guantanamo Bay. Zero dB aims to stop torture music by encouraging widespread condemnation of the practice and by calling on governments and the UN to uphold and enforce the Convention Against Torture and other relevant treaties. The initiative is backed by the Musicians Union which is calling on British musicians to voice their outrage against the use of music to torture.

Musicians and the wider public are making their own silent protests against music torture which are being shown on Zero dB. A series of silent protests and actions were planned through 2009. Participating musicians will include minutes of silence in their concerts to draw their audience's attention to the USA's use of deafening music against captives.

According to the Associated Press FBI agents stationed at Guantanamo Bay reported that the use of deafening music was common.
According to the Associated Press
Guantanamo Bay spokesmen Commander Pauline Storum: 

Among the musicians united in their objections were Christopher Cerf, a composer for the children's show Sesame Street, and Tom Morello
of Rage Against the Machine and Audioslave.
Others include Massive Attack, R.E.M., The Roots, Rise Against, Rosanne Cash, Pearl Jam, Bonnie Raitt, Trent Reznor, Billy Bragg, Michelle Branch, Jackson Browne, T-Bone Burnett, David Byrne, Marc Cohn, Steve Earle, Limp Bizkit, System of a Down, Disturbed, the Entrance Band, Skinny Puppy and Joe Henry.

The Associated Press reported that Stevie Benton of the group Drowning Pool commented: "I take it as an honor to think that perhaps our song could be used to quell another 9/11 attack or something like that." Benton later issued an apology, stating his comment had been "taken out of context".

See also
 Psychological torture
 Loud music
 High Anxiety
 Music and political warfare
 Gitmo playlist
 Psychic driving
 Acoustic harassment

References

Further reading 
 Moustafa Bayoumi. 'Disco Inferno.' The Nation 7 December 2005. Available at http://www.thenation.com/doc/20051226/bayoumi.
 Cusick, Suzanne. 'You are in a place that is out of the world . . .': Music in the Detention Camps of the 'Global War on Terror'. Journal of the Society for American Music 2/1 (2008): 1-26.
 Cusick, Suzanne. 'Music as torture / Music as weapon.' Revista Transcultural de Música/Transcultural Music Review 10 (2006). Available at https://web.archive.org/web/20070207092801/http://www.sibetrans.com/trans/trans10/cusick_eng.htm.
  
  
  
 M. J. Grant and Anna Papaeti (guest editors), the world of music (new series): Music and Torture | Music and Punishment vol. 2 no. 1 (2013).
 Anna Papaeti and M. J. Grant (guest editors), Torture: Journal on Rehabilitation of Torture Victims and Prevention of Torture: Special Thematic Issue ‘Music in Detention’ vol. 23 no.2 (2013). http://www.irct.org/media-and-resources/library/torture-journal/archive/volume-23--no.-2--2013.aspx
 Jon Ronson. The Men Who Stare at Goats. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2004.

Psychological torture techniques
Psychological warfare techniques
Psychological abuse
Perception
Music and politics
Music psychology