[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# LGBT rights in Mexico

thriving LGBT movement with organizations in various large cities throughout the country and numerous LGBT publications (most prominently in Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Tijuana, and Puebla), the majority at the local level (since national efforts often disintegrate before gaining traction).

Timeline of LGBT history in Mexico
 1542: Hernan Cortés started his campaign in Cholula (now Cholula, Puebla). At that time, Amerindian homosexuality behavior varied from region to region. Cortés on behalf of his majesty the King of Spain started talking to the locals (, translated from old Spanish) and established rules against sodomy.
 1569: An official inquisition was created in Mexico City by Philip II of Spain. Same-sex sexual acts were a prime concern, and the Inquisition inflicted stiff fines, spiritual penances, public humiliations, and floggings for what it deemed to be sexual sins.
 1871: The intellectual influence of the French Revolution and the brief French occupation of Mexico (1862–67) resulted in the adoption of the Napoleonic Code. This meant that sexual conduct in private between adults (regardless of gender) ceased to be a criminal matter.
 1901: (20 November) Mexico City police raided an affluent drag ball, arresting 42 men (19 of which were cross-dressing). One was released, allegedly a close relative of President Porfirio Díaz. The resulting scandal, known as the "Dance of the 41 Maricones", received widespread press coverage.
 1959: Mayor Ernesto Uruchurtu closed all gay bars in Mexico City under the guise of "cleaning up vice" (or reducing its visibility).
 1971: The Homosexual Liberation Front (Frente de Liberación Homosexual), one of the first LGBT groups in Latin America, was organized in response to the firing of a Sears employee because of his (allegedly) homosexual orientation.
 1979: The country's first LGBT pride parade was held in Mexico City.
 1982: Max Mejía, Pedro Preciado, and Claudia Hinojosa became the first openly gay politicians to run unsuccessfully for seats in the Congress of Mexico.
 1991: Mexico hosted a meeting of the International Gay and Lesbian Association, the first meeting of the association outside Europe.
 1997: Patria Jiménez, a lesbian activist, was selected for proportional representation in the Chamber of Deputies of Mexico, representing the left-wing Party of the Democratic Revolution.
 1999: (August): The first meeting of lesbians and lesbian feminists was held in Mexico City. From this meeting, evolved an organized effort for expanded LGBT rights in the nation's capital.
(2 September): Mexico City passed an ordinance banning discrimination based on sexual orientation, the first of its kind in the country.
 2000: Enoé Uranga, an openly lesbian politician, proposed a bill that would have legalized civil unions in Mexico City. The local Legislature, however, decided not to enact the bill after widespread opposition from right-wing groups.
 2003: (29 April): A federal anti-discrimination law was passed and a national council was immediately created to enforce it.
(July): Amaranta Gómez became the first transgender woman to run unsuccessfully for a seat in the Congress of Mexico.
 2004: (13 March): Amendments to the Mexico City Civil Code that allow transgender people to change the gender and name on their birth certificates took effect.
 2006: (9 November): Mexico City legalized same-sex civil unions.
 2007: (11 January): The northern state of Coahuila legalized same-sex civil unions.
(31 January): The nation's first same-sex civil union ceremony was performed in Saltillo, Coahuila.
 2008: (September): The Mexico City Legislative Assembly passed a law, making it easier for transgender people to change their gender on their birth certificates.