[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1997 Israeli helicopter disaster

shift morgue set up on a nearby military base for identification. The IDF censored news of the crash for more than two hours to enable the families of the victims to be informed, but swift identification proved impossible. All of the bodies had been recovered by the morning of February 5.

Aftermath

The crash was the deadliest air disaster in Israeli history. A wave of national mourning swept Israel. According to Joshua L. Gleis, "In a close-knit country where nearly everyone joins the military, a huge portion of the nation's population knew at least one of the soldiers killed in the crash." February 6 was declared an official day of mourning. Flags were flown at half-mast, restaurants and cinemas closed, the Knesset observed a minute of silence, and the names of the dead were read out at the beginning of every news bulletin on television and radio. Thousands of Israelis went to pray at the Western Wall and assemblies were held at schools nationwide.

The funerals began taking place on February 5.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Ezer Weizman attended funerals and visited the grieving families.

Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai appointed a commission of inquiry headed by David Ivry to investigate the cause of the collision. The commission recommended that the commander of the helicopters' squadron be dismissed and barred from any future command positions, the commander of Tel Nof Airbase and the deputy commander of the squadron (who had briefed the pilots before their mission) be reprimanded, and that the officer in charge of Rosh Pina Airport be dismissed from his position and barred from serving in any command position for three years. In its recommendations to prevent future accidents, the commission recommended that the number of flights per pilot be reduced, that clear procedures be established regarding the turning off of lights when crossing borders, that a lead helicopter be established when two fly together, that squadrons operate under the same procedures, and that helicopters fly alone during any night flights into southern Lebanon. It also recommended that the Israeli Air Force install black boxes in its helicopters.

The disaster sparked renewed debate about Israel's occupation of southern Lebanon. Later that year, the Four Mothers, an anti-war protest movement dedicated to pressing for an Israeli withdrawal from southern Lebanon, was founded. This event is seen as a catalyst for Israel's withdrawal from the security zone in Lebanon in 2000.

Memorials

A memorial to the 73 dead IDF soldiers was created near the crash site of one helicopter next to the cemetery of kibbutz Dafna. It was inaugurated in 2008. The memorial consists of a number of elements, the most visible being 73 stones erected around a round pool to which water is directed through a channel. The 73 names are written on black blocks placed under the water of the pool. A Bible verse from  is inscribed. The monument was designed by architect Shlomit Shlomo, landscape architects Haim Cohen and Gilad Sharon, sculptor Rami Feldstein; sculptor Dani Karavan acted as an adviser for the project. In moshav She'ar Yashuv, where the second helicopter crashed, another monument was erected. On the southeast edge of the moshav, the "Forest of the Fallen" was planted to memorize the dead. The forest has 73 trees, one for each victim of the crash.

There are numerous other memorial monuments throughout Israel commemorating the disaster. In addition, there exist memorials for individual soldiers in the places where they lived.

On February 15, 2017, a memorial service was held in Kibbutz Dafna to mark the 20th anniversary of the disaster. Bereaved families of the victims attended, as well as President Reuven Rivlin, Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman, and IDF Chief of Staff Gadi Eizenkot.

See also
1977 Israeli Air Force Sikorsky CH-53 Sea Stallion crash

References

External links

"Military helicopters collide in Israel, killing scores", CNN, 4 February 1997. Accessed 11 June 2006.
" The Israeli Helicopter Crash- Reactions in Lebanon", News at Lebanon, 5 February 1997. Accessed 11 June 2006.
Helicopter disaster, Exhibition in the IDF&defense establishment archives 
Segal, Naomi. "Pilot error may because of horrific helicopter crash", Jewish Telegraphic Agency, 14 February 1997. Accessed 11 June 2006.
Segal, Naomi. "Discipline recommended in copter crash that killed 73", Jewish Telegraphic Agency, 25 April 1997. Accessed 11 June 2006.

Helicopter Disaster
Accidents and incidents involving the Sikorsky CH-53 Sea Stallion
Israeli Helicopter Disaster
Aviation accidents and incidents in Israel
Israeli Air Force
Israel 1997
Mid-air collisions
Mid-air collisions involving military aircraft
February 1997 events in Asia
South Lebanon conflict (1985–2000)
1997 disasters in Israel