[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Occupation of Araucanía

order in the provinces of Arauco, Malleco, Cautín, Valdivia, Llanquihue and Chiloé. This institution was until 1905 led by captain Hernán Trizano. Later Cuerpo de Gendarmes de las Colonias would be fused with other policing bodies to form Carabineros de Chile, Chile's current national police force.

Military analysis
The Mapuche had prior to the 19th century been able to adapt to Spanish warfare. However the 19th century Mapuche proved unable to keep up the Chilean Army's modernization and change in tactics. The Chilean Army benefited greatly from the advances of the industrial revolution, as it incorporated machine guns, new types of cannons, rifles and revolvers. Machine guns were incorporated to the Chilean Army in the 1870s and by 1879 Chile had fourteen. Prior to the War of the Pacific the Chilean Army had equipped itself with the most modern weaponry available in Europe and standardised ammunitions. Chile also improved its logistics with the use of steamships in the rivers of Araucanía from the 1860s onward. The expansion of railroads in the 1870s also helped Chilean logistics and communications making it possible for authorities in Santiago to quickly send reinforcements to Araucanía.

Mapuche's had historically few firearms but were able to deal with gunpowder armed enemies whose rate of fire was low. The usual tactic was to await volley fire and then rush before enemies were able to recharge. Analysis of Quilapán's tactics in the 1860s and 1870s reveal they were similar to the ones employed by Lautaro in the 1550s. An example of the technological changes favouring the Chilean Army was when Quilapán's warriors attack on Chilean cavalry on January 25, 1871. In this confrontation mounted Mapuche warriors were armed with spears and bolas as they assaulted Chilean cavalry that had recently changed its Minié rifles to Spencer repeating rifles. Mapuches panicked as they did not expect a second round of shots, and casualties among them were high. Despite the success of some Mapuches to arm themselves with firearms there was usually a shortage of ammunition.

Another factor was the lack of a cooperative defense against Chilean advances among the Mapuche tribes. Many Mapuche only reacted once Chilean advance reached their territory, for example the Abajinos. In contrast, 17th century Mapuches who successfully repelled repeated Spanish invasions had a "supra-local level of military solidarity" despite lacking state organization.

See also 
Araucanization
Arauco War
Chilenization of Tacna, Arica and Tarapacá
Conquest of the Desert
Kingdom of Araucania and Patagonia

References

Bibliography

External links

 
19th-century colonization of the Americas
Arauco War
Military occupation
Settlement schemes in South America