[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paloh (film)

atience".

The production of the movie itself was fraught with difficulties. Feuds broke out and led to the sacking of director Adman Salleh by supervising producer Jurey Latiff Rosli, although he was later reinstated after FINAS, the National Film Development Corp that funded the movie, intervened.

In response to the critics who commented on the confusion from the non-linear timeline, Adman clarified: “Many people did not realise that after I was rehired, I only managed to do three things – reedit the fine cut, complete the dubbing process and give some ideas on the concept of music for Paloh.” 
According to Adman, even as the film’s director and screenplay writer, he was not allowed to oversee the final mixing of sound effects, music and dialogues and "marry all these three into check print in the form of audio and picture", leading to confusion and "technical errors", which he requested he be allowed to rectify before the film was submitted for screening at the Asia-Pacific Film Festival in Iran that October.

There was also controversy over the origin of its theme song sung by pop queen Siti Nurhaliza, entitled "Tetap Di Sini". The song was a three-year-old composition by musician Hadi Hassan but the movie credited another songwriter, "Aiman". Aiman, whose real name is Zulkifli Majid, claimed that the song was sent to him through the mail and not credited to anyone as the composer, and they decided to use "Aiman" as the composer, "hoping that the real composer will own up". The royalty and compensation that was due to Hadi Hassan was addressed and the credit title was amended.

Paloh was unlike any other historical films in that it attempted historical and social accuracy. The Chinese characters spoke in Mandarin, Hokkien, and broken Malay, and the entire film was subtitled in English.

Awards
Paloh grabbed six awards including Best Director and Best Film at the 17th Malaysian Film Festival in 2004. The filmmakers won cash prize worth RM25,000 for the Best Film category.

References

External links
 

2003 films
Malay-language films
2000s Mandarin-language films
Films set in 1944
Pacific War films
Malaysian historical drama films
2000s historical drama films
2003 drama films