[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jan Mazurkiewicz

Jan Mazurkiewicz, pseudonym: "Zagłoba", "Socha", "Sęp", "Radosław" (27 August 1896 – 4 May 1988) was a Polish military leader and politician, colonel of Home Army and brigadier general of the Polish People's Army. Founder of the Secret Military Organization (later merged with the Home Army), commander of Kedyw and the Radosław Group during Warsaw Uprising. After the war, he was a political prisoner of the Stalinist period (until 1956). From 1964 he was vice-president of Society of Fighters for Freedom and Democracy.

Early life and World War I
Jan Mazurkiewicz was born in a craftsman's family in Lviv. He spent his childhood in Zolochiv, where from 1902 he attended primary school and from 1906 to the gymnasium. He was active in Scouting, a member of the "Falcon" Polish Gymnastic Society. In 1911 he moved with his family to Lviv, where he continued his education. He was a member of the Organisation of Independent Youth Zarzewie, and later belonged to the Riflemen's Association.

After a short training, he joined the 1st Brigade of Polish Legions, in which he was a soldier of the 1st battalion company. Then he was assigned to the marching battalion of captain Leon Berbecki and in his ranks took part in December 1914 at the Battle of Łowczówek. He was wounded and captured by the Russians. He escaped from it in June 1915, after which he managed to get back to his unit. In October wounded again, then he underwent treatment in the hospital.

As a sergeant, in July 1916 he was transferred to the 1st Brigade of Legions, in which he served until the oath crisis. He was arrested on 4 September 1917 and imprisoned in Przemyśl. He was threatened with the death penalty for active participation in the crisis. Shortly thereafter he was released and forced to join the Austro-Hungarian Army, from which he deserted in March 1918. He broke into the Polish II Corps in Russia commanded by general Józef Haller, in whose ranks he took part in the Battle of Kaniów. After escaping from German captivity, he got to the Polish Military Organisation in Kiev. He took part in numerous subversive actions and battles with German, and Ukrainian troops. He also infiltrated Austrian troops.

Interwar period 
From November 1918 he was a soldier of the Polish Army. Later, he was assigned to the Second Department of Polish General Staff. During the Polish–Soviet War, he served as a military courier (he imported, among others, Józef Piłsudski's letters to Symon Petliura) and a counterintelligence officer. In 1922, he was transferred to the military reserve for a short period and assigned to the 8th Legions' Infantry Regiment. From 1924 he served in the 13th Infantry Division. He took part in preparations for the May Coup. From 1930 to 1934, under the cover of an inspector of the Riflemen's Association, he conducted counterintelligence activities against the Soviet Union in Vilnius and Brest.

In 1934 he completed the course of the battalion commanders at the Infantry Training Center in Rembertów. From 1938 to 1939 he was a lecturer in tactics at courses for company commanders.

World War II and Warsaw Uprising

During the Invasion of Poland, he was the head of a diversion on the southwestern front section. After the Soviet invasion of Poland, he founded the Secret Military Organization (TOW) in Stanisławów. On 19 September 1939, he crossed the Polish-Hungarian border, transferring the organization's headquarters to Budapest. Then he went to France, where he met with general Władysław Sikorski. In June 1940 he returned to the country and assumed the function of the Commander-in-Chief of TOW, an independent combat and subversive organization operating according to the guidelines of the Union of Armed Struggle.

In March 1943, after merging TOW with Kedyw he became the deputy head of the organization, colonel Emil August Fieldorf. On 1 February 1944, he took the post of commander of Kedyw.

Shortly before the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, Mazurkiewicz was made commander of the Radosław Group. This force was one of the largest, best trained and equipped Polish units in the uprising. After the initiation of the uprising, the unit seized major portions of the Wola suburbs, and subsequently defended it against German attacks carried out by troops under the command of SS Gruppenführer Heinz Reinefarth and Standartenführer Oskar Dirlewanger. One of the battalions of the group, Battalion Zośka, liberated the Gęsiówka concentration camp located within Warsaw and freed 384 prisoners (mainly Jews), most of whom then joined the unit. The Radosław Group fought its way to Warsaw Old Town borough when further defense in Wola became impossible. In the areas of Wola that Reinefarth's and Dirlewanger's troops recaptured from the insurgents, at least 40,000 civilians and prisoners of war were murdered in the Wola massacre. On 11 August he was seriously wounded during the fighting