[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Planète (magazine)

ques Sternberg and Alex Grall. The magazine also had variants, through all Western Europe and South America (Pianeta, Horizonte, Planeta, Bres, Planet, etc.), as well as an edition in Arab language in 1969 (12 international editions in all). The Dutch and Italian editions are always produced here:  

Bergier's narrow personal office had posters all along the walls, featuring the characteristic humor of the movement: "You don't have to be crazy to work here... but that helps!"; and especially "Some calm, and some orthography!"

Philosophers, sociologists, and writers, such as Mircea Eliade, Edgar Morin, Odile Passeron, Jean-Bruno Renard, Umberto Eco, and Jean d'Ormesson, considered this the leading phenomenon of the Sixties.

Some of the most famous authors: Aimé Michel, Rémy Chauvin, George Langelaan, Bernard Heuvelmans, , Jean Emile Charon, Raymond de Becker, Gabriel Veraldi, Jacques Mousseau (editor in chief, and future originator of the television broadcast Temps X), René Alleau, Henri Laborit, Jacques Lecomte, Guy Breton. Several sketch artists and painters of reputation made their classes there: Roland Topor, Jean Gourmelin, René Pétillon, Pierre Clayette, Pierre-Yves Trémois. The sub-editor was Arlette Peltant.

Through François Richaudeau, the leading mobility of the group moved itself around the Denoel house, with the variations of the Retz editions (which have become didactic), of the Club of the Woman, the Club of the Friends of the Book, the CELT (Culture-Art-Leisures), to some extent perpetuating the cultural outline which had been tried just after the war, with "Work and Culture" then "the World Library" of Victor Michon, Louis Pauwels and this same François Richaudeau. Today, certain works of the editions du Rocher can be considered in the spirit of the topics approached by the members of "Planet".

Fields and topics covered 
 Epistemology. The magazine made formerly ignored precursors in this field known to the general public, for example, Roger Joseph Boscovich.
 Science fiction. Writers like Fredric Brown, Daniel Keyes, Isaac Asimov, Arthur C Clarke, Ray Bradbury and Robert Sheckley were published, and some discussions about their writings.
 The Fantastic. The review devoted several articles to Lovecraft and especially to Jorge Luis Borges, about whom it also published some short stories (among them, the library of Babel).
 Futurology. An interview of Isaac Asimov in 1965 on the topic "How I see the world in 1995" turns out to be almost without fault: the only thing that Isaac Asimov had not seen coming (neither had anybody in the middle of the 1960s) was the domestic microcomputer.
 Sociology, Ethnology, Ethology. Once its role had been filled, after ten years, Planet disappeared quietly in 1972.

Succession 
Two English-language magazines are in the spirit of Planète: Omni and Wired.

See also 
 Futures studies
 Genres, subcategories and related topics to science fiction
 Golden Age of Science Fiction
 Hard science fiction
 History of science fiction
 Science fiction authors
 Science fiction Organizations

References 
Translated from the French language page, June 2006.

1961 establishments in France
1972 disestablishments in France
Defunct literary magazines published in France
French-language magazines
Magazines established in 1961
Magazines disestablished in 1972
Magazines published in Paris
Speculative fiction magazines published in France
Western esoteric magazines