[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Yoshinobu Kanemaru

ch, each of the Suzuki-gun members spoke about their memories as a part of the group and thanked leader Suzuki. The night ended with all members posing with the Suzuki-gun flag, only to be interrupted by former member Takashi Iizuka, causing all 9 men to pose in the ring, behind the Suzuki-gun flag.

On January 4 at Wrestle Kingdom 17, Kanemaru competed in the New Japan Rambo, but failed to last till the final 4. The following day at New Year Dash!!, Kanemaru reunited with former Suzuki-gun stablemates, Taka Michinoku, Douki and Taichi to form a stable  known as, Just 4 Guys. In February at The New Beginning in Sapporo, Kanemaru and Douki, challenged Catch 2/2 (Francesco Akira and TJP) for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championships, but were defeated. During the New Japan Cup, the stable added cup winner Sanada to the faction, thus changing their name to Just 5 Guys. Following Sanada winning the IWGP World Heavyweight Championship at Sakura Genesis, he was confronted by former stablemate Hiromu Takahashi, who sought a shot at the world title. Sanada accepted, however only on the basis that Kanemaru was granted a title shot at Takahashi's IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship, which Takahashi accepted. On April 27, Kanemaru was unsuccessful in defeating Takahashi. In May, Kanemaru competed in the Best of the Super Juniors, competing in the B Block. Kanemaru finished the tournament with a score of 6 points, failing to advance to the semi-finals.

Following the 2023 G1 Climax, Kanemaru suffered a supposed knee injury while fighting the House of Torture and went on a small hiatus for the remainder of the month of August. A month later, during Taichi's defense match against Sho for the KPOW Championship, Kanemaru returned seemingly to help Taichi defend himself. But, as soon as Kanemaru would put whiskey on his mouth and perform his whiskey spit, he spat it on Taichi's face instead and hit him with his Touch Out. Afterwards, Evil announced Kanemaru was leaving Just 5 Guys to join House of Torture.

Championships and accomplishments
All Japan Pro Wrestling
All Asia Tag Team Championship (2 times) – with Jun Akiyama (1), and Último Dragón (1)
World Junior Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Asunaro Cup (2000)
January 3 Korakuen Hall Junior Heavyweight Battle Royal (1999)
New Japan Pro-Wrestling
IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship (6 times) – with Tsuyoshi Kikuchi (1), Taichi (1) and El Desperado (4)
Super Junior Tag League (2021) – with El Desperado 
Pro Wrestling Illustrated
PWI ranked him #161 of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2013
Pro Wrestling Noah
GHC Junior Heavyweight Championship (7 times)
GHC Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship (4 times) – with Takashi Sugiura (2), Kotaro Suzuki (1) and Kenta (1)
Junior Heavyweight League (2009)
Nippon TV Cup Jr. Heavyweight Tag League (2009) – with Kotaro Suzuki
One Night Junior Heavyweight Six Man Tag Team Tournament (2003) – with Makoto Hashi and Takashi Sugiura
One Night Tag Tournament Winner (2001) - with Kentaro Shiga
One Day Jr. Heavyweight Six Man Tag Tournament (2008) - with Kotaro Suzuki and Genba Hirayanagi
Taka & Taichi Box Office
Super J-Cup Qualifying League (2016)
Tokyo Sports
Newcomer Award (1998)
Westside Xtreme Wrestling
Trios Tournament (2006) – with Doug Williams and Takashi Sugiura
World Entertainment Wrestling
WEW World Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Masao Inoue
Xtreme Wrestling Entertainment
XWE Cruiserweight Championship (1 time)

References

External links

Pro Wrestling Noah profile 
Suzuki-gun profile 
 

1976 births
Japanese male professional wrestlers
Sportspeople from Yamanashi Prefecture
Living people
20th-century professional wrestlers
21st-century professional wrestlers
Suzuki-gun members
IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Champions
GHC Junior Heavyweight Champions
GHC Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Champions
All Asia Tag Team Champions
World Junior Heavyweight Champions (AJPW)
WEW World Tag Team Champions
Global Junior Heavyweight League/Jr. Rumble winners
Global Junior Heavyweight Tag League winners