[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# August 1976

chmond, Virginia
Died: Robert L. May, 71, American advertising copywriter who created the character of Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer as a giveaway book for the Montgomery Ward department store chain in 1939; May's brother-in-law, Johnny Marks, later adapted the story to a successful Christmas song.

August 12, 1976 (Thursday)
More than 1,500 Lebanese Palestinian refugees, and perhaps as many as 3,000, were killed in a massacre of civilians at the Tel al-Zaatar camp in northeastern Beirut by a Christian militia group.  The camp had been created and administered by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency  during the Lebanese Civil War and most of the men, women and children housed at Tel al-Zaatar were Palestinian Muslims.
The trial of the San Quentin Six, the longest and most expensive in the U.S. state of California up to that time, came to an end after 16 months and a cost of more than two million dollars, "to convict three men who were already imprisoned, two with life sentences."  The six prisoners on trial had been charged with an escape attempt that had killed six people almost five years earlier on August 21, 1971.  Three defendants— Fleeta Drumgo, Luis Talamantez and Willie Tate— were acquitted of all charges and, having served out their original sentences at San Quentin for other crimes, paroled afterward.  Johnny Spain, already serving a life sentence for a 1967 murder, was convicted of the 1971 murder, but his conviction would be overturned on appeal and he would be released in 1988.  David Johnson and Hugo Pinell were convicted of assaulting guards.  Johnson would be released in 1993.  Pinell, who had already been serving a life sentence for murder of prison guard at the Soledad prison, would be killed in a prison riot on August 12, 2015, thirty-nine years after the verdict.
An explosion killed 12 maintenance workers at a 30-story tall tower at the Tenneco Oil Company refinery in Chalmette, Louisiana, and injured 14 others.  All but two of the dead were subcontractor employees of the Delta Field Erection Company.  An official of the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, to which the 10 Delta Field employees belonged, said that the blast had been caused by human error, noting "It was just a mistake on a man's part."
The National Swine Flu Immunization Program, meant to vaccinate all 200 million residents of the U.S. against swine flu, was signed into law by U.S. President Gerald Ford.
Died: 
Tom Driberg, 71 controversial British House of Commons member who served as an MP from 1942 to 1955, and 1959 to 1974, despite having been a former member of the Communist Party of Great Britain and being openly gay.  Driberg, who had been ennobled as "Lord Bradwell of Bradwell Juxta Mare" in December, was dead on arrival at a hospital after collapsing in a taxi cab at Bayswater, London.
Roger Q. Williams, 82, American aviator and aircraft designer

August 13, 1976 (Friday)
Democrat Joseph DiCarlo and Republican Ronald MacKenzie, both Massachusetts state senators and partners in crime, were indicted by a federal grand jury and arrested on charges of extortion of $40,000 from a consulting company, McKee-Berger-Mansueto, Inc.  After posting bond, both would be convicted by a jury on February 25, fined, and sentenced to one year confinement at a minimum security prison near Allenwood, Pennsylvania.  MacKenzie would resign on March 30, 1977, while DiCarlo would become the first legislator in state history to be expelled from office, losing his seat on April 4 by a 28 to 8 vote.
Died: Liz Moore, 31, British sculptor known for her elaborate designs of film props and miniatures in Star Wars and 2001: A Space Odyssey, was killed in a car accident in the Netherlands.  She had been working on the film set of the war movie A Bridge Too Far.

August 14, 1976 (Saturday)
Eight people were killed and 51 injured in Egypt by a bomb that exploded on a train that they were boarding at the Alexandria railway station.  Most of the casualties were construction workers and farmers who were preparing to make the  trip to their workplaces in Aswan.  Egypt accused Libya of having had someone plant the time bomb, which exploded at 10:45 in the morning, in an unclaimed suitcase in a luggage rack.  Casualties would have been higher but the train was still waiting outside of the station when the bomb exploded, and the people killed had boarded in order to get an early seat.
Around 10,000 Protestant and Catholic women demonstrated for peace in Northern Ireland.
The Senegalese political party PAI-Rénovation was recognized by the West African nation's government, becoming the third legal party in that West African nation.