[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Randall Auxier

ity that exemplify constellations whose status relative to actuality is “might-be.” Auxier argues that possibility is immediately experienced by human beings, and that its form is inferred by means of contrast with the experience of the “egress” of possibility. Actuality is cognized only indirectly.

Method and logic 
Auxier is a radical empiricist in method, following James, Bergson, and Whitehead. Radical empiricists hold that experience as human beings have it includes all the relations needed to bring it into adequate, applicable, and logically rigorous form. Radical empiricism requires that disjunctive and conjunctive relations be treated as equiprimordial, and insists that nothing in experience shall be excluded from philosophical consideration, even where its place in experience is not yet clear to us. The philosophical orientation of radical empiricism also forbids that a viewpoint may rely upon “transempirical or unempirical support for its assertions. Purely a priori or supernatural notions can be entertained as possibilities, but may form no part of the basis for a philosophy. Radical empiricism embraces fallibilism and the primacy of open-ended, non-monotonic, intensive reasoning. Auxier holds that the largely extensive forms of reasoning that characterize spatialized sign-operations are guided by reflective norms of thinking overlap with but are not identical to the norms of temporal, functional symbol-thinking. Symbolic thinking rarely yields to reflective norms except through long practice and habituation, and most reflective norms that establish criteria for evaluating good semiotic thinking are irrelevant to high-functioning symbol-thinking. One does not persuade a person of the value of a course of thinking by means of reflective norms, which are emotionally sterile. Persuasion requires the use of symbol functions.

Thus, Auxier's work in logic focuses on the relation between reflective and active thinking. Intensive logic is treated as the ground of all extensional logic, and extensional logic (along with all mathematical thinking above basic counting) is grounded in rearrangements of operational sign relations. Infinitely many extensional schemes are possible of the basis of intensive symbol functions, but all are well encompassed by the four-term semiotic schema Auxier provides. He treats Bergson's qualitative calculus and Whiteheads genetic and coordinate analyses as exemplars of his sign-theory. Auxier favors and teaches the analytical syllogistics of Delton Thomas Howard as a normative formalization of active thinking, and Susanne Langer's logic as an imaginative formalization of spatialized thinking, when removed from metaphysics and treated as a separate system of extensional thinking. Auxier emphasizes the role of imagination in symbol creation in line with Kantian and neo-Kantian theories, such as Cassirer's.

Philosophy of culture 
Auxier's theories in the philosophy of culture derive from the ideas of Giambattista Vico, Kant, F.W.J. Schelling, J.J. Bachofen, Friedrich Nietzsche,  Cassirer and a number of post-humanist critics, such as Michel Foucault, and Jacques Derrida. He holds that culture is not defined by any single source, such as language, but from multiple sources of experience that are continuous with the animal world, and even the “worlds” of plants and temporal processes that are non-biological. He argues that the organization of the cosmos in the broadest sense already includes not only the potentiality for life, but also for precisely the organizations of energies that characterize human life as dedicated to the creation of symbols and signs, as well as the modes of response we call “consciousness.” Thus, culture is an activity of animals (including but not limited to humans) in concert with and embedded form of potencies already characteristic of the physical universe and the modes of order it currently exhibits. Auxier follows Cassirer in holding that the human consciousness of the development of culture is conditioned by symbol creation, which proceeds along at least three fundamental lines: myth, language, and objectivating consciousness. But Auxier disagrees with Cassirer's emphasis upon the symbol as the criterion of difference between human and animal cognition, and argues that animals not only possess symbolic consciousness, but that human culture is unimaginable with the contributions of animal conscious, including human consciousness in its animal functions. Auxier also holds that consciousness wholly devoid of reflection may exist, although it would not exist in such a way as to preclude reflection in some remote temporal development.