[Source: PubMed]

55. J Public Health Manag Pract. 2017 Nov/Dec;23(6):618-626. doi: 
10.1097/PHH.0000000000000550.

Climate Change and Public Health Surveillance: Toward a Comprehensive Strategy.

Moulton AD(1), Schramm PJ.

Author information:
(1)Climate and Health Program, National Center for Environmental Health, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia (Mr Schramm). Dr Moulton 
was with the Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, during research 
for this study.

CONTEXT: Climate change poses a host of serious threats to human health that 
robust public health surveillance systems can help address. It is unknown, 
however, whether existing surveillance systems in the United States have 
adequate capacity to serve that role, nor what actions may be needed to develop 
adequate capacity.
OBJECTIVE: Our goals were to review efforts to assess and strengthen the 
capacity of public health surveillance systems to support health-related 
adaptation to climate change in the United States and to determine whether 
additional efforts are warranted.
METHODS: Building on frameworks issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, we specified 4 core 
components of public health surveillance capacity relevant to climate change 
health threats. Using standard methods, we next identified and analyzed multiple 
assessments of the existing, relevant capacity of public health surveillance 
systems as well as attempts to improve that capacity. We also received 
information from selected national public health associations.
FINDINGS: Multiple federal, state, and local public health agencies, 
professional associations, and researchers have made valuable, initial efforts 
to assess and strengthen surveillance capacity. These efforts, however, have 
been made by entities working independently and without the benefit of a shared 
conceptual framework or strategy. Their principal focus has been on identifying 
suitable indicators and data sources largely to the exclusion of other core 
components of surveillance capacity.
CONCLUSIONS: A more comprehensive and strategic approach is needed to build the 
public health surveillance capacity required to protect the health of Americans 
in a world of rapidly evolving climate change. Public health practitioners and 
policy makers at all levels can use the findings and issues reviewed in this 
article as they lead design and execution of a coordinated, multisector 
strategic plan to create and sustain that capacity.

DOI: 10.1097/PHH.0000000000000550
PMCID: PMC5603401
PMID: 28169865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.