[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Daniel Boulud

Daniel Boulud (born 25 March 1955 in Saint-Pierre-de-Chandieu) is a French chef and restaurateur with restaurants in New York City, Palm Beach, Miami, Toronto, Montréal, Singapore, the Bahamas, the Berkshires and Dubai. He is best known for his eponymous restaurant Daniel, in New York City, which currently holds two Michelin stars.

Boulud was raised on a farm near Lyon and trained by several French chefs. Boulud built a reputation in New York, initially as a chef and more recently as a restaurateur. His management company, The Dinex Group, currently includes fifteen restaurants, three locations of a gourmet cafe (Epicerie Boulud) and Feast & Fêtes Catering. His restaurants include Daniel, Le Pavillon, Le Gratin, Café Boulud, Maison Boulud, Joji, and Joji Box, db bistro, Bar Boulud, and Boulud Sud.

Culinary background
At fifteen, Boulud earned his first professional recognition as a finalist in France's competition for Best Culinary Apprentice. Boulud worked in France with Roger Vergé, Georges Blanc and Michel Guérard and later in Copenhagen before becoming the private chef to the European Commission in Washington, D.C.

After moving to New York City, Boulud opened the Polo Lounge at The Westbury Hotel, followed by Le Régence at the Hotel Plaza Athenée. From 1986 to 1992, he was the critically acclaimed executive chef at Le Cirque.

Restaurants
Boulud opened Daniel in Manhattan's Upper East Side in 1993 before relocating the restaurant to a Venetian renaissance-inspired setting at Park Avenue and 65th Street in 1998. The original Daniel was re-launched as Café Boulud. He followed these openings by founding a more casual restaurant in Manhattan's theater district in 2001 and a second Café Boulud in Palm Beach, Florida, in 2003. Daniel Boulud Brasserie opened in 2005 inside the Wynn Las Vegas, three years before Bar Boulud, a French bistro opposite New York City's Lincoln Center, was opened in January 2008, the same year he opened Boulud à Pékin in Beijing.

In 2003, Boulud was announced as the executive chef for the newly launched Cunard liner .

In December 2008, after the departure of founding chef Rob Feenie, Boulud reopened Vancouver restaurants Lumière and Feenie's (renaming the latter "db Bistro Moderne," making it the sister restaurant to db Bistro Moderne in Manhattan). Boulud became the chef, consulting chef, and co-partner. The two restaurants were closed on 13 March 2011, two years after opening DBGB Kitchen & Bar, a Pan-European brasserie, in New York City. In 2009, Boulud also announced that he was looking to start his next venture in London. Bar Boulud London opened on May 29, 2010, inside the Mandarin Oriental Hotel on Knightsbridge, becoming the first Boulud's restaurant in Europe.

Daniel Boulud Brasserie closed on 4 July 2010, when Wynn chose not to renew the contract between Boulud & The Resort (see Wynn Las Vegas for more). In 2013, it was confirmed that the restaurant would re-open at The Venetian Hotel in Las Vegas in the Spring of 2014.

2011 saw many new Boulud openings, including a db Bistro Moderne at Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, a Maison Boulud in Ritz-Carlton Montreal, as well as Boulud Sud next to Bar Boulud, and Épicerie Boulud, a market/deli. In the following year, d|bar opened in the Four Seasons Hotel Toronto, while Bar Boulud Boston opened on 16 September 2014 inside the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Boston. The third location of Epicerie Boulud opened in the Oculus World Trade Center in November 2016.

Around 2018, Boulud collaborated with a group of MIT entrepreneurs to create Spyce Kitchen, a robotic restaurant in Boston. He was responsible for the menu while the founders developed the technology. The restaurant serves bowl-based meals using healthy ingredients like grains, beans, and kale. The restaurant announced its closure on its Facebook page on 18th October 2021.

Boulud opened Le Pavillon, a restaurant in the One Vanderbilt skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan, in May 2021.

Awards
Both Boulud and his restaurants have received several awards. Daniel has been rated one of the top ten restaurants in the world by the International Herald Tribune, received Gourmet's Top Table Award, a four-star rating from The New York Times, Wine Spectator's Grand Award, and New York City's top ratings for cuisine, service, and decor in the Zagat Survey. The flagship New York City restaurant was awarded three Michelin stars in the 2010 Michelin, the book's highest rating. As of August 28, 2012, he had 4 Michelin Stars in total and in January 2013, Daniel NYC was inducted into Culinary Hall of Fame. The restaurant, however, lost its third Michelin star in 2015 for "a lack of consistency".