[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tshilidzi Marwala

depends on how much artificial intelligence is used to make a decision. He also observed that the more artificial intelligence is used for decision-making, the more efficient the markets become. For example, if artificially intelligent machines make all decisions, the markets will be fully rational.

Artificial Intelligence and Political Science 
Tshilidzi Marwala has contributed to the application of artificial intelligence in political science, international relations, and interstate conflict. With Monica Lagazio, he has studied the effects of artificial intelligence on international relations, including the possibility of interstate conflict. In this regard, these researchers have discussed how AI can be used to predict and manage conflicts, as well as how it may alter the nature of diplomacy and international negotiations. This work involved analyzing data and predicting potential conflicts using machine learning algorithms. Marwala and Bhaso Ndzendze have investigated how AI can be utilized in international relations decision-making procedures. He has discussed the potential for artificial intelligence to enhance decision-making by providing more precise forecasts and analyses.

Awards and honors 
Marwala is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, TWAS, and the African Academy of Sciences.  In high school he won the National Youth Science Olympiad and represented South Africa in the London International Youth Science Forum. He is the recipient of the Order of Mapungubwe. In 2022, Marwala was awarded the IT Personality of the Year Award in South Africa for his work on the fourth industrial revolution. Marwala has received honorary doctorates from the Caucasus University in Tbilisi in Georgia and the University of Venda.

See also

References

External links
Biography

1971 births
Living people

 
 
People from Thulamela Local Municipality
Alumni of St John's College, Cambridge
Case Western Reserve University alumni
University of Pretoria alumni
Inventors
Alumni of St John's College (Johannesburg)
Vice-Chancellors of University of Johannesburg
South African engineers
South African inventors
Computer
South African computer scientists
21st-century inventors
Fellows of the African Academy of Sciences