[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Daniel J. Elazar

Morality and Power: In September 1988, as the intifada approached the end of its first year, a distinguished group of leaders in academic and public affairs in Israel and the diaspora was invited to participate in a symposium on the problems of relating morality and power in contemporary statecraft.

The Elazar typology of Jewish communal involvement is a typology laid out in Community and Polity: The Organizational Dynamics of American Jewry. It categorizes the degree of involvement American Jews have in the Jewish community:
 Integral Jews make up 10–13 percent. For these, Jewishness is a central focus of life and is passed through generations. Specifically, integral Jews may express their Jewishness "through traditional religion, ethnic nationalism or intensive involvement in Jewish affairs."
 Participants make up 12–15 percent. For this group, Judaism is a "major avocational interest"; they "take part in Jewish life in a regular way but whose rhythm of life follows larger society." Participants are likely to regularly attend synagogue and to be involved in different organizations, examples including participating in adult education, "fundraising for Jewish causes," or lobbying for Israel.
 Affiliates make up 30–33 percent. These are "members of Jewish organizations but not particularly active"; they may be "affiliated with synagogues but irregular attenders."
 Contributors and Consumers make up another 25–33 percent. They "periodically use the services of Jewish organizations as needed," and keep a Jewish identity but remain "minimally associated." They may on occasion contribute financially to Jewish organizations.
 Peripherals make up 25 percent. These are "recognizably Jewish but wholly uninvolved in Jewish life"; they have "no particular desire to use Jewish institutions or contribute to organizations"
 Repudiators and Converts-Out make up 2–7 percent. This group includes those who have converted to another religion and who "actively deny Jewishness."

Elazar's theories on the political subcultures in the American states, articulated in American Federalism, A View From the States have been influential and remains relevant among scholars of American politics. Elazar argues that there are three dominant political subcultures in the American states: moralistic (government viewed as egalitarian institution charged with pursuing the common good), traditionalistic (government viewed a hierarchical institution charged with protecting an elite-centered status quo), and individualistic (government viewed as minimalist institution charged with protecting the functionality of the marketplace but is otherwise not active). Elazar's theory is still routinely used as variable in academic research and is discussed in most textbooks on American state and local government.

Published works
 The American Partnership: Intergovernmental Cooperation in the United States, 1962
 American Federalism: A View from the States. 1966
 The American System: A New View of Government in the United States, edited for Morton Grodzins, 1966
 Cooperation and Conflict, Readings in American Federalism, Elazar as editor, 1969
 The Politics of American Federalism, editor, 1969
 Cities of the Prairie: The Metropolitan Frontier and American Politics, 1970
 The Politics of Belleville, 1971
 The Ecology of American Political Culture, editor with Joseph Zikmund II, 1975
 Community and Polity: The Organizational Dynamics of American Jewry, 1976
 A Classification System for Libraries of Judaica, with David H. Elazar, 1979
 Self Rule/Shared Rule: Federal Solutions to the Middle East Conflict, editor, 1979
 Federalism and Political Integration, editor, 1979
 Republicanism, Representation and Consent: Views of the Founding Era, editor, 1979
 Kinship and Consent: The Jewish Political Tradition and Its Contemporary Uses, editor, 1981
 Governing Peoples and Territories, editor, 1982
 Judea, Samaria, and Gaza: Views on the Present and Future, editor, 1982
 State Constitutional Design in Federal Systems, editor with Stephen L. Schechter, 1982
 Covenant, Polity and Constitutionalism, editor with John Kincaid, 1983
 Jewish Communities in Frontier Societies, with Peter Medding, 1983
 Kinship and Consent: The Jewish Political Tradition and Its Contemporary Uses, editor, 1983
 From Autonomy to Shared Rule: Options for Judea, Samaria, and Gaza, editor, 1983
 The Balkan Jewish Communities: Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Greece, and Turkey, with Harriet Pass Friedenrich, Baruch Hazzan, and Adina Weiss Liberies, 1984
 The Jewish Communities of Scandinavia: Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland, with Adina Weiss Liberies and Simcha Werner, 1984
 Understanding the Jewish Agency: A Handbook, editor with Alysa M. Dortort, 1984
 The Jewish Polity: Jewish Political Organization From Biblical Times to the Present, with Stuart A. Cohen, 1985
 The Covenant Connection: From Federal Theology to Modern Federalism, editor with John Kincaid, 2000