[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Milan Smith

did not pose an immediate threat to law enforcement officials or anyone else, the law clearly established that the deputy's conduct was unconstitutional and the deputy was not entitled to qualified immunity. On June 25, 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court denied cert.

Separation of powers and federalism 

  Smith, writing for a unanimous panel, largely upheld a district court's denial of the federal government's motion to enjoin California's sanctuary state laws, including SB 54, the California Values Act. The panel mostly rejected the government's intergovernmental immunity and preemption arguments, concluding instead that the Tenth Amendment's anticommandeering doctrine precluded the government's attempt to force state and local officials to assist with immigration enforcement efforts. The panel concluded, "SB 54 may well frustrate the federal government's immigration enforcement efforts. However, whatever the wisdom of the underlying policy adopted by California, that frustration is permissible, because California has the right, pursuant to the anticommandeering rule, to refrain from assisting with federal efforts." On June 15, 2020, the U.S. Supreme Court denied cert.
 In re U.S. Department of Education (9th Cir. 2022). In a 2–1 decision, Smith partially granted a petition for a writ of mandamus brought by former Secretary of Education Elisabeth DeVos after a federal district judge ordered former Secretary DeVos to sit for a deposition in a lawsuit about denying student-loan relief. Smith denied Devos's request for a transfer to the Southern District of Florida, but wrote that the district court clearly erred by requiring DeVos to sit for a deposition in light of her status as the former Secretary of Education and the lack of any showing that her testimony was necessary to resolving the case. Smith's opinion was joined by Judge Jacqueline Nguyen. Judge Richard Paez dissented, noting that DeVos was no longer in office, and arguing that for this reason, forcing her to sit for a short deposition would not significantly distract from any official duties.

Death penalty 

 McGill v. Shinn (9th Cir. 2021). Smith dissented when the 9th circuit permitted Arizona to execute someone despite the fact that Arizona's death penalty statute at the time was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in Ring v. Arizona. Although Arizona updated its death penalty statute afterwards, Smith argued that the execution violates the ex post facto clause.

Copyright law 

  Smith wrote the majority opinion for a divided panel, which upheld a jury verdict finding that the 2013 song "Blurred Lines" infringed on Marvin Gaye's estate's copyright to the 1977 song "Got To Give It Up." The decision rested on narrow grounds based on the procedural posture of the case.

Environmental law 

  Smith wrote a concurrence described as "unusually blunt and wide-ranging," in which he criticized the court for "taking the law too far and causing much of 'the decimation of the logging industry in the Pacific Northwest' and the loss of legions of timber jobs." Smith's view prevailed when the case was reviewed en banc, with Smith writing the opinion for the unanimous 11-judge panel.
  Smith dissented from an en banc decision of the court holding that a federal agency's decision to refrain from acting triggered the Endangered Species Act's interagency consultation process. The dissent began with a reproduction of a woodcut and excerpt from Jonathan Swift's Gulliver's Travels, depicting and describing the eponymous traveler's capture by the Lilliputians—an unusual sight in the Federal Reporter. In addition to criticizing the majority opinion in the case, the dissent criticized other recent Ninth Circuit decisions as lacking a basis in the law, two of which—Decker v. Northwest Environmental Defense Center, 133 S. Ct. 1326 (2013), and U.S. Forest Service v. Pacific Rivers Council, 133 S. Ct. 2843 (2013)—were later overturned by the U.S. Supreme Court.
  Smith wrote an opinion for a unanimous panel concluding that pollution exceedances detected at monitoring stations of the County of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles County Flood Control District were sufficient to establish the County's liability under the Clean Water Act. The U.S. Supreme Court declined to review the opinion.
  Smith wrote for a unanimous panel that environmental organizations lacked standing to challenge regulators' failure to define greenhouse gas emissions limits because the nexus between the harm and the desired regulation was too attenuated, in part because there was no evidence that the desired limitations would curb a significant amount of greenhouse gas emissions.

Immigration