[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2007 Eilat bombing

ople killed in the attack.

In the Gaza Strip, a large crowd gathered outside the bomber's home to praise the attack. "Mohammed be happy, You will go directly to heaven." the crowd chanted, while children held pictures of the bomber. He looked pensive in one image, and held a machine gun in another.

Government reactions
International
 : Germany, then-holder of the European Union presidency, condemned the attack "in the strongest terms." An EU presidency statement said Germany "urges the Palestinian leadership to do everything in its power to put an end to terror and bring to justice those who support terror."
 : King Abdullah condemned the bombing, saying in a statement that "such attacks will only increase the sufferings of the Palestinians."
 : Minister for Foreign Affairs Carl Bildt said, "I condemn today's terrorist attack in Eilat, Israel. Violence that targets civilians is totally unacceptable. [...] The infighting among Palestinian groups is claiming more and more victims. Palestinian leaders must therefore take their responsibility and quickly find a way to resolve the crisis using peaceful means."
 : Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said, "We utterly condemn this morning's suicide attack in Eilat. There can be no justification for such attacks."
 : White House spokesman Tony Snow said the responsibility of the bombing lies with the Palestinian Authority government. He added, "Failure to act against terror will inevitably affect relations between that government and the international community and undermine the aspirations of the Palestinian people for a state of their own."

See also
List of Palestinian Islamic Jihad suicide attacks
Palestinian political violence

References

Suicide bombings in 2007
Attacks on bakeries
History of Eilat
Islamic Jihad Movement in Palestine attacks
Suicide bombing in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict
Terrorist incidents in Israel in 2007
Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades attacks
January 2007 events in Asia
Building bombings in Israel
2007 murders in Israel