[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Teva Pharmaceuticals

reduction (greater than 14,000 employees) as part of a two-year cost-reduction strategy. Following considerable lobbying by the Israeli Government, from whom Teva received considerable tax breaks, and from Israel's labor federation, the Histadrut, Teva agreed to delay some of the layoffs in Israel.

In October 2019, Teva faced criticism for making a “business decision to discontinue the drug” Vincristine, essential for the treatment of most childhood cancers according to the Food and Drug Administration.

Actavis Generics 

In July 2015, Allergan agreed to sell its generic drug business (Actavis Generics) to Teva for $40.5 billion ($33.75 billion in cash and $6.75 billion worth of shares). As a result, Teva dropped its pursuit of Mylan. In order for the deal to gain regulatory approval, Teva sold off a number of assets, including a portfolio of five generic drugs to Sagent Pharmaceuticals for $40 million, as well as a further eight medicines to Dr. Reddy's in a $350 million deal. Teva also sold a further 15 marketed generics, as well as three others that were close to market, for $586 million to Impax Laboratories. In July, Teva sold off a further 42 products to Australian generics company, Mayne Pharma, for $652 million; the deal moved Mayne up 50 spots, into the top-25 companies of US generic companies. As part of the deal Teva will seek to raise $20 to $25 billion through a bond sale.

After completing the $39 billion acquisition of Actavis Generics, Teva announced another, smaller, deal with Allergan, agreeing to acquire its generic distribution business Anda for $500 million.

2010s divestments 
On October 21, 2011, Par Pharmaceutical has sealed the deal to three products from Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, which the Israeli firm was required by the US Federal Trade Commission to divest before it could acquire US biotech Cephalon for $6.8 billion.

Following the acquisition of Allergan plc generic division some assets have sold off to meet US antitrust requirements. In June 2016 Indian pharmaceutical company Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd bought 8 (ANDA) Abbreviated New Drug Applications for $350 million in cash. Also in June 2016 Teva sold two abbreviated new drug applications (ANDAs) to Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadilla strengthen its US portfolio. On June 21, 2016, American pharmaceutical company Amneal Pharmaceutical previously known as Impax Laboratories bought a portfolio of generic drugs from Teva Pharmaceutical Industries for about $586 million. On July 29, Cipla an Indian pharmaceutical company bought three products from Teva. Indian pharmaceutical company, Aurobindo, was in the race to buy some Teva assets. In October 2016, Teva has sold off part of its UK and Ireland generic business to Indian pharmaceutical company Intas Pharma for 600 million pounds (5083 crore Indian rupees) in cash. In August 2016, Australia pharmaceutical company Mayne Pharmaceutical bought a portfolio of drugs from pharmaceutical giant Teva Pharmaceuticals last year for $845 million Australian dollars. In February 2018, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd has completed the sale of a portfolio of products within its global women's health business across contraception, fertility, menopause and osteoporosis for $703 million in cash to CVC Capital Partners Fund VI. Teva also agreed to sell its Plan B One-Step and its brands of emergency contraception to Foundation Consumer Healthcare for $675 million in cash. Combined annual net sales of these products were $140 million last year. It also sold Paragard to a unit of Cooper Companies Inc (COO.N) for $1.1 billion.

Acquisition history
The following is an illustration of the company's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors (this is not a comprehensive list):

Corporate governance

Research and development

Teva holds patents on multiple drugs, including Copaxone, a specialty drug (for the treatment of multiple sclerosis), now the world's best selling MS drug, and Azilect (sold as Agilect in some countries) for treatment of Parkinson's disease. By July 2015, Copaxone held a "31.2 percent shares of total MS prescriptions in the United States." Teva's new 40 mg version of Copaxone taken three times a week "accounted for 68.5 percent of total Copaxone prescriptions in the United States." Copaxone accounts for about fifty percent of "Teva's profit and 20 percent of revenue." Competitors' Glatopa, 20 mg version of Copaxone, is taken once a day.

In June 2006, Teva received from the FDA a 180-day exclusivity period to sell simvastatin (Zocor) in the U.S. as a generic drug in all strengths except 80 mg. Teva presently competes with the maker of brand-name Zocor, Merck & Co.; Ranbaxy Laboratories, which has 180-day exclusivity for the 80 mg strength; and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, whose authorized generic version (licensed by Merck) is exempt from exclusivity.