[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Youssef Bey Karam

May 1889, all the Bey of Karam family sent a delegation to Italy in order to return their dean's body to Lebanon. After severe negotiations, in which the French ambassador in Constantinople interfered, the delegation was able to have a permit from the Sublime Porte to return Karam's body to Lebanon.

The coffin was removed from the grave and it was in a good condition. When the coffin was opened, Karam's body appeared in a very good condition as well. His face was intact; his clothes, ornamented with gold, were not damaged or impaired in any way. His corpse was not mummified, because when his nephews learned about his death, they sent a telegraph with an amount of money to Shedid Bey Hobeish, the Turkish consul in Napoli, asking him to take care of mummifying their uncle's body. Many weeks passed between the death and the mummification negotiations. Therefore, Shedid Pasha replied in a telegraph saying that the doctors examined the body and decided that the mummification is absolutely impossible.

In 2012, after 123 years since the death of Youssef Bey Karam, the body has suffered some slight decay because of humidity inside the coffin. Accordingly, Youssef Bey Karam Foundation called the Medical Italian Delegation, which has examined the body in 2002 after an individual initiative taken by M. Naji Kallasy and Sayed Farshakh.

The Italian Delegation proposed a project for the body's restoration. The foundation along with Ehden-Zgharta Parish agreed that the Parish will take charge of supervising and implementing the plan of the body's restoration. Not to mention that coordinating with the foundation is necessary with every step the Parish is going to take.

The Zghartawi emigrant M. Edmond Abshi presented a donation of 200 thousand Euros for the complete restoration of the body.

The restoration workshop began in March 2013 and ended in June 2013.

The body was returned to Saint George Cathedral in Ehden inside a new - air and water isolator - vitreous coffin, allowing everyone to see it.

Legacy

On 11 September 1932, a bronze statue of Karam was erected in his memory outside the Cathedral of Saint Georges, Ehden. This statue was made by his namesake Youssef Howayek.

In 2008, Rita Karam, daughter of minister and MP Salim Bey Karam founded the Youssef Bey Karam Foundation.

In November 2014, The Ministry of Communication in conjunction with Liban Post has finally issued formal stamps in recognition of the Hero of Lebanon Youssef Bey Karam. Sami Saab designed the stamp in coordination with the Youssef Bey Karam Foundation.

In 2017, a wax figure of Youssef Bey Karam has been installed in the Marie Baz wax museum in Deir al-Qamar.

Archive Collection and Partnership with USEK
On 3 June 2013, Youssef Bey Karam Foundation signed a cooperation agreement with University of Saint Esprit – Kaslik about collecting and conserving the Archive of Youssef Bey Karam. According to the agreement, the Phoenix Center for Lebanese Studies coordinates with the Youssef Bey Karam Foundation for archive management and documents archiving and also prepares media campaign to announce the archive.

See also
 Ehden
 Zgharta
 Youssef Salim Karam
 Salim Bey Karam

References

External links
 

Youssef Bey Karam Foundation Official Website 
Youssef Bey Karam Archive
Youssef Bey Karam on Ehden Family Tree Website 

Arab people from the Ottoman Empire
Arab Christians
Lebanese Maronites
Lebanese nationalists
Ottoman period in Lebanon
1823 births
1889 deaths
Youssef Bey
19th-century people from the Ottoman Empire
Rebels from the Ottoman Empire
People from Zgharta