[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Kęstutis Ivaškevičius

Kęstutis Ivaškevičius (born 17 April 1985 in Klaipėda) is a Lithuanian footballer.

Ivaškevičius is as an attacking midfielder, capable of playing wide right or centrally.

He started his career at hometown club Atlantas Klaipėda and after impressing there earned a move to FBK Kaunas. In the second part of 2006 season he was loaned out to FK Šilutė, but returned for the 2007 and scored 7 goals, earning himself a move to Hearts for the 2006–07 season.

At Hearts he struggled to make an impact on the first team. He made his Hearts debut in September 2006, in a 4–0 victory over Alloa Athletic in the Scottish League Cup, with his first league appearance occurring 6 months later, in a 2–0 win at Motherwell. He scored his first league goal against Celtic on 29 April 2007 in a surprising 3–1 win. On 15 September 2007, he scored against the other half of the Old Firm, Rangers, in a 4–2 victory – a win which ended Rangers' 100% start to the season.

On 20 August 2008 a statement on the Hearts official website revealed that Ivaškevičius' loan with Hearts had been cancelled and he had returned to FBK Kaunas.

In 2009, he made only one appearance for FBK Kaunas in the Lithuanian Cup and in spring cancelled his contract after the club was relegated to third division. As of July 2009 he was on trial at Kryvbas.

In August 2015, Ivaškevičius retired from football. He severely injured his ankle in an Israeli league match in November 2013 and required numerous surgeries in which he was unable to fully recover.

References

External links

Profile at londonhearts.com
Profile at FFU website

Lithuanian men's footballers
Lithuania men's international footballers
Lithuanian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Scotland
Expatriate men's footballers in Ukraine
Lithuanian expatriate sportspeople in Israel
Lithuanian expatriate sportspeople in Ukraine
Expatriate men's footballers in Israel
Scottish Premier League players
Ukrainian Premier League players
FBK Kaunas footballers
Heart of Midlothian F.C. players
FC Kryvbas Kryvyi Rih players
Bnei Yehuda Tel Aviv F.C. players
1985 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Klaipėda
Israeli Premier League players
Men's association football midfielders