[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of Shaman King characters

sakura family to Yoh.  After Yoh leaves Hell, Yohken's soul returns with him to the deserted island of Tokyo and Yohken attend the last meeting between the Asakura and Tao families regarding their plan to defeat Hao.  He makes one last appearance among the souls who escort Asanoha Douji to meet Hao.

 
 
 Tamao Tamamura (known as "Tamara" or "Tammy" in the 2001 English anime) is a shy girl who is in love with Yoh Asakura, even though she knows that Yoh is engaged to Anna Kyoyama, whom Tamao admires. She is 11 years old at the start of the series. Initially, she is so shy that she uses her sketchbook and points to pictures in order to tell people what she wants to say; through Anna's influence and from combat, she gradually becomes braver and confident. Orphaned at a young age, she was brought to the Asakura family by Yoh's father, Mikihisa Asakura and trained as an ascetic priest. Right after Yoh and the others went to America, she began attending Shinra Private Academy. Tamao is named for Tamao Nakamura. Tamao's specialty is her use of a kokkuri board, which is similar to a Ouija board, in order to perform divinations. As an ascetic, her spirits are Konchi, a kitsune, and Ponchi, a tanuki, in the same way Mikihisa has a kitsune and a tanuki. At the conclusion of the manga, Tamao becomes the manager of Funbari Onsen, the resort that Anna planned to open after the Shaman Fight. Tamao also becomes the foster-mother of Yoh and Anna's only son Hana while they travel the world. Hana describes her as one of the scariest people he knows, implying that her personality is similar to Anna's. When Yoh and Anna finally return, Tamao is able to debut as an Enka singer and reveals that for the sake of Hana and to ensure Funbari Onsen would be successful, she forced herself to become stronger and more intimidating. She becomes infamous amongst the inn's employees for her ability to effectively threaten them while remaining elegant and cordial.
 Luca Asakura

Tao Family

  
 
 Ren's older sister is a daoshi (a Daoist spellcaster; , ), who can reanimate dead corpses. She is seventeen years old at the beginning of the manga. While Jun is loyal to her family, she expresses her greatest devotion and protective nature towards Ren and is willing to turn against the expectations of the Tao family in order to ensure Ren's success and well-being. She is one of the few people that Ren trusts and is aware of the brutality of his upbringing. 

As a shaman, Jun's personal jiangshi (guardian zombie, pronounced "kyonshī" in Japanese) is Lee Pai-Long (Lee Bailong), a famous movie star in Hong Kong who died seventeen years ago. She uses Jufu talismans to control her guardian ghost. After she battles Yoh Asakura and Amidamaru and loses, she lets Bai-Long obey her commands only if he wishes to when she realizes that spirits have hearts too, and they just cannot be controlled. Using her skill in creating jiangshi, Jun later modifies Bailong's body after his defeat by Jun's father; the extent of the upgrades is revealed during Jun and Tamao's fight against Team Flower, where Bailong's arm is revealed to include a piston to greatly increase his punching power. Additionally, because of her knowledge in human anatomy, Jun willingly becomes the apprentice of Sati and gains the ability to resurrect people.