[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Inca army

Kunka kuchuna) – These were a symbol of power for the troops in Cuzco and throughout all the empire, generals and important heads of provinces used them. Similar to the European models, it consisted of an axe blade with a spearhead on the back side, being above the 1.5 meters but below of 2 meters.

 Maces (Quechua: Champi) – The most common weapon in the inca arsenal, it consisted of a wooden shaft with a heavy object on the top. Generally these objects were star-shaped to increase the damage of the strikes. 
Coastal variation– The Moches used some species of "spear-maces", long wooden clubs that ended in cone-shaped heads, the Moche state was theocratic militarist, for which it didn't invest much in its army, which was made up of specialized warriors rather than soldiers, reason why it was conquered by the Wari empire. After the dissolution of the Wari, the Chimu kingdom inherited the weapon from their ancestors, this time they decreased the size of the maces to include shields in their troops. For the common [footman it was made of wood, for the higher ranks the head was covered in metal to increase the damage (All metals were used, the tumbaga was an alloy of gold and copper, or another metal depending on the area, after the annexation to the Inca empire, the tumbaga was used in the weapons of the Tawantinsuyu). This weapon remained in disuse after the Chimu-Inca war.
 Slings (Quechua: Waraka) – The huaracas were fundamental in the Inca army, the slingers were trained from childhood for hunting and self-defense, thus improving their dexterity in the weapon. Its simplicity and effectiveness (the projectiles could reach 120km/h) explains why the bow and arrow didn't replace it. Generally made of wool, there were also ceremonial slings, which were used in meetings as an ornament since they weren't for military use. The use of the huaraca from childhood remained in the Andes even after the fall of the Inca empire, passing from generation to generation its practice. And it wouldn't be until the beginning of this century in which modernity and large cities overshadowed this tradition in the society.
 Spears (Quechua: Chuki) – The spears, just like the axes, were of universal use, the head could be of any metal. On the coast near to Lima, close to the south, feathers were added to spears as decoration.
 Spear thrower (Quechua: Kumana) – It didn’t have military use, and was only used as a hunting weapon in the jungle. It was not until the retreat of Manco Inca to Vilcabamba that it began to have a military utility, it was used mainly in guerrilla tactics to attack the peruvian cavalry.

After spending time with the Spanish people, Manco Inca, learned to use Spanish weapons, learned their tactics and the weaknesses of each weapon. This would be of great help, since after the first confrontations during the rebellion, the Inca troops began to use Spanish weapons, being almost on equal terms; something fundamental for the 40 years of Inca resistance.

Forms of conquest

Peaceful conquest 
Peaceful conquest was possible when a curaca agreed to recognize the Sapa Inca as his emperor in return for a number of benefits. These benefits could include gifts, investment in public works, recognition at their investiture, interchange of women to establish family ties, etc. Whether submission was due to fear of the Inca army or genuine friendship, the curaca became a beneficiary of the offered gifts, but he also became subject to Inca demands: his lands had to be handed over to the state, he had to supply labour and soldiers, etc. It was a conquest through reciprocity.

Violent conquest 
Violent conquest would occur if a tribe was unwilling to accept the Sapa Inca as their emperor. This generally resulted in a bloody war. The conquered tribe would be subject to reprisals according to the length of the war. The defeated leader would be executed and, depending on the degree of their rebellion, the subjects would either be moved to a distant place or, in extreme cases, totally annihilated as a punishment to avoid future uprisings.

History

Local phase (13th century–1438) 

This phase lasted from the beginning of the Inca period until the end of the rule of Pachacuti (or Pachacútec). During this phase, the army was relatively small and weak. The only battles it fought were for reasons of defence or survival. On occasions, the rulers also led the army into battle.
There were frequent battles during this period against small tribes such as the Alcahuasis or the Canas. The Aymara or the powerful Chancas were greater threats and the Inca army had to confront them on a number of occasions.

Imperial phase (1438–1532) 
This period started with the defeat of the Chancas, with Pachacuti at the head of the Inca army. From this time on the Inca army would be a multiethnic army and it would be more sophisticated and numerous.