[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 54]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

, his
philosophy and religion. Hadria lazily agreed. She lay under a singular
spell. The bizarre old music smote still upon the ear. She felt as if
she were in the thrall of some dream whose events followed one another,
as the scenes of a moving panorama unfold themselves before the
spectators. Temperley began to plead his cause. Hadria, with a startled
look in her eyes, tried to check him. But her will refused to issue a
vigorous command. Even had he been hateful to her, which he certainly
was not, she felt that she would have been unable to wake out of the
nightmare, and resume the conduct of affairs. The sense of the
importance of personal events had entirely disappeared. What did it all
matter? "Over us stars and under us graves." The graves would put it all
right some day. As for attempting to direct one's fate, and struggle out
of the highways of the world--midsummer madness! It was not only the
Mrs. Gordons, but the Valeria Du Prels who told one so. Everybody said
(but in discreeter terms), "Disguise from yourself the solitude by
setting up little screens of affections, and little pompous affairs
about which you must go busily, and with all the solemnity that you can
muster."

The savage builds his mud hut to shelter him from the wind and the rain
and the terror of the beyond. Outside is the wilderness ready to engulf
him. Rather than be left alone at the mercy of elemental things, with no
little hut, warm and dark and stuffy, to shelter one, a woman will
sacrifice everything--liberty, ambition, health, power, her very
dignity. There was a letter in Hadria's pocket at this moment,
eloquently protesting in favour of the mud hut.

Hadria must have been appearing to listen favourably to Temperley's
pleading, for he said eagerly, "Then I have not spoken this time quite
in vain. I may hope that perhaps some day----"

"Some day," repeated Hadria, passing her hand across her eyes. "It
doesn't really matter. I mean we make too much fuss about these trifles;
don't you think so?" She spoke dreamily. The music was jigging on with
strange merriment.

"To me it matters very much indeed. I don't consider it a trifle," said
Temperley, in some bewilderment.

"Oh, not to ourselves. But of what importance are we?"

"None at all, in a certain sense," Temperley admitted; "but in another
sense we are all important. I cannot help being intensely personal at
this moment. I can't help grasping at the hope of happiness. Hadria, it
lies in your hand. Won't you be generous?"

She gave a distressed gesture, and seemed to make some vain effort, as
when the victim of a nightmare struggles to overcome the paralysis that
holds him.

"Then I may hope a little, Hadria--I _must_ hope."

Still the trance seemed to hold her enthralled. The music was
diabolically merry. She could fancy evil spirits tripping to it in
swarms around her. They seemed to point at her, and wave their arms
around her, and from them came an influence, magnetic in its quality,
that forbade her to resist. All had been pre-arranged. Nothing could
avert it. She seemed to be waiting rather than acting. Against her inner
judgment, she had allowed those accursed practices to go on. Against her
instinct, she had permitted Henriette to become intimate at Dunaghee;
indeed it would have been hard to avoid it, for Miss Temperley was not
easy to discourage. Why had she assured Hadria so pointedly that Hubert
would not misinterpret her consent to renew the practices? Was it not a
sort of treachery? Had not Henriette, with her larger knowledge of the
world, been perfectly well aware that whatever might be said, the
renewal of the meetings would be regarded as encouragement? Did she not
know that Hadria herself would feel implicated by the concession?

Temperley's long silence had been misleading. The danger had crept up
insidiously. And had she not been treacherous to herself? She had longed
for companionship, for music, for something to break the strain of her
wild, lonely life. Knowing, or rather half-divining the risk, she had
allowed herself to accept the chance of relief when it came. Lack of
experience had played a large part in the making of to-night's dilemma.
Hadria's own strange mood was another ally to her lover, and for that,
old Mrs. McPherson and her reels were chiefly responsible. Of such
flimsy trifles is the human fate often woven.

"Tell me, did you ask your sister to----?"

"No, no," Hubert interposed. "My sister knows of my hopes, and is
anxious that I should succeed."

"I thought that she was helping you."

"She would take any legitimate means to help me," said Hubert. "You
cannot resent that. Ah, Hadria, why will you not listen to me?" He bent
forward, covering his face with his hands in deep dejection. His hope
had begun to wane.

"You know what I think," said Hadria. "You know how I should act if I
married. Surely that ought to cure you of all----."

He seized