[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 75]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

common is so extensive, and
so bare either of trees or houses, that one may walk for miles and see
nothing but heath and furze. Sometimes I tore my legs in scrambling
through great thickets of furze; now and then I plumped into a hole full
of water, and should have been drowned if I had not learned to swim; so
that at last I was going to give it up in despair, when, looking on one
side, I saw a light at a little distance, which seemed to be a candle
and lantern that somebody was carrying across the moor.

_Tommy._--Did not that give you very great comfort?

"You shall hear," answered Harry, smiling. "At first I was doubtful
whether I should go up to it; but I considered that it was not worth
anybody's pains to hurt a poor boy like me, and that no person who was
out on any ill design, would probably choose to carry a light. So I
determined boldly to go up to it, and inquire the way."

_Tommy._--And did the person with the candle and lantern direct you?

_Harry._--I began walking up towards it, when immediately the light,
which I had first observed on my right hand, moving slowly along by my
side, changed its direction, and went directly before me, with about the
same degree of swiftness. I thought this very odd; but I still continued
the chase, and just as I thought I had approached very near, I tumbled
into another pit full of water.

_Tommy._--That was unlucky indeed.

_Harry._--Well, I scrambled out, and very luckily on the same side with
the light, which I began to follow again, but with as little success as
ever. I had now wandered many miles about the common; I knew no more
where I was than if I had been set down upon an unknown country; I had
no hopes of finding my way home, unless I could reach this wandering
light; and, though I could not conceive that the person who carried it
could know of my being so near, he seemed to act as if he was determined
to avoid me. However, I was resolved to make one attempt, and therefore
I began to run as fast as I was able, hallooing out, at the same time,
to the person that I thought before me, to entreat him to stop.

_Tommy._--And did he?

_Harry._--Instead of that, the light, which had before been moving along
at a slow and easy pace, now began to dance as it were before me, ten
times faster than before, so that instead of overtaking it, I found
myself farther and farther behind. Still, however, I ran on, till I
unwarily sunk up to the middle in a large bog, out of which I at last
scrambled with a very great difficulty. Surprised at this, and not
conceiving that any human being could pass over such a bog as this, I
determined to pursue it no longer. But now I was wet and weary; the
clouds had indeed rolled away, and the moon and stars began to shine. I
looked around me, and could discern nothing but a wide, barren country,
without so much as a tree to shelter me, or any animal in sight. I
listened, in hopes of hearing a sheepbell, or the barking of a dog; but
nothing met my ear, except the shrill whistling of the wind, which blew
so cold that it chilled me to the very heart. In this situation I
stopped a while to consider what I should do; and raising my eyes by
accident to the sky, the first object I beheld was that very
constellation of Charles' Wain, and above it I discerned the Pole-star,
glimmering, as it were, from the very top of heaven. Instantly a thought
came into my mind; I considered, that when I had been walking along the
road which led towards my uncle's house I had often observed the
Pole-star full before me; therefore it occurred to me, that if I turned
my back exactly upon it, and went straight forward in a contrary
direction, it must lead me towards my father's house. As soon as I had
formed this resolution, I began to execute it. I was persuaded I should
now escape, and therefore, forgetting my fatigue, I ran along as briskly
as if I had but then set out. Nor was I disappointed; for though I could
see no tracks, yet, taking the greatest care always to go on in that
direction, the moon afforded me light enough to avoid the pits and bogs
which are found in various parts of that wild moor; and when I had
travelled, as I imagined, about three miles, I heard the barking of a
dog, which gave me double vigour; and going a little farther, I came to
some enclosures at the skirts of the common, which I knew, so that I
then with ease found my way home, after having almost despaired of doing
it.

_Tommy._--Indeed, then, the knowledge of the Pole-star was of very great
use to you. I am determined I will make myself acquainted with all the
stars in the heavens. But did you ever find out what that light was,
which danced before you in so extraordinary a manner?

_Harry._--When I came home, my father told me it was what the common
people called a _Jack-o'-the-lantern_; and Mr Barlow has since informed
me that these things are only vapours, which rise out of the earth in
moist