[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rotterdam Convention

The Rotterdam Convention (formally, the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade) is a multilateral treaty to promote shared responsibilities in relation to importation of hazardous chemicals. The convention promotes open exchange of information and calls on exporters of hazardous chemicals to use proper labeling, include directions on safe handling, and inform purchasers of any known restrictions or bans. Signatory nations can decide whether to allow or ban the importation of chemicals listed in the treaty, and exporting countries are obliged to make sure that producers within their jurisdiction comply.

In 2012, the Secretariats of the Basel and Stockholm conventions, as well as the UNEP-part of the Rotterdam Convention Secretariat, merged to a single Secretariat with a matrix structure serving the three conventions. The three conventions now hold back to back Conferences of the Parties as part of their joint synergies decisions.

The ninth meeting of the Rotterdam Conference was held from 29 April to 10 May 2019 in Geneva, Switzerland.

Substances covered under the Convention
The following chemicals are listed in Annex III to the convention:
2,4,5-T and its salts and esters
Alachlor
Aldicarb
Aldrin
Asbestos – Actinolite, Anthophyllite, Amosite, Crocidolite, and Tremolite only
Benomyl (certain formulations)
Binapacryl
Captafol
Carbofuran (certain formulations)
Chlordane
Chlordimeform
Chlorobenzilate
DDT
Dieldrin
Dinitro-ortho-cresol (DNOC) and its salts
Dinoseb and its salts and esters
1,2-dibromoethane (EDB)
Endosulfan
Ethylene dichloride
Ethylene oxide
Fluoroacetamide
Hexachlorocyclohexane (mixed isomers)
Heptachlor
Hexachlorobenzene
Lindane
Mercury compounds including inorganic and organometallic mercury compounds
Methamidophos (certain formulations)
Methyl parathion (certain formulations)
Monocrotophos
Parathion
Pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters
Phosphamidon (certain formulations)
Polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs)
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)
Polychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs)
Terbufos
Tetraethyl lead
Tetramethyl lead
Thiram (certain formulations)
Toxaphene
Tributyltin compounds
Trichlorfon
Tris (2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate (TRIS)

Substances recommended for addition to the Convention

The Chemical Review Committee of the Rotterdam Convention decided to recommend to the conference of the parties meeting that it consider the listing of the following chemicals in Annex III to the convention:
 Carbosulfan
 Chrysotile asbestos
 Fenthion (ultra low volume (ULV) formulations at or above 640 g active ingredient/L)
 Liquid formulations (emulsifiable concentrate and soluble concentrate) containing paraquat dichloride at or above 276 g/L, corresponding to paraquat ion at or above 200 g/L
 Acetochlor
 Iprodione

State parties

As of October 2018, the convention has 161 parties, which includes 158 UN member states, the Cook Islands, the State of Palestine, and the European Union. Non-member states include the United States.

Discussion about chrysotile asbestos

At the 2011 meeting of the Rotterdam Convention in Geneva, the Canadian delegation surprised many with a refusal to allow the addition of chrysotile asbestos fibers to the Rotterdam Convention.  Hearings are scheduled in the EU in the near future to evaluate the position of Canada and decide on the possibility of a punitive course of action.

In continuing its objection, Canada is the only G8 country objecting to the listing. Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Ukraine also objected. Vietnam had also raised an objection, but missed a follow-up meeting on the issue. In taking its position, the Canadian Government contrasted with India, which withdrew its long-standing objection to the addition of chrysotile to the list just prior to the 2011 conference. (India later reversed this position in 2013.) 
 
Numerous non-governmental organizations have publicly expressed criticism of Canada's decision to block this addition.

In September 2012, Canadian Industry minister Christian Paradis announced the Canadian government would no longer oppose inclusion of chrysotile in the convention.

Eight of the largest chrysotile producing and exporting countries opposed such a move at the Rotterdam Conference of Parties in 2015: Russia, Kazakhstan, India, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Cuba, and Zimbabwe.

See also
 Basel Convention
 Stockholm Convention
 Safe Planet

References

External links
 Official site of The Rotterdam Convention
 Text of theConvention
 Ratifications 
 The Rotterdam Convention Prior Informed Consent Procedure