[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Petroperú

Petróleos del Perú (), better known as Petroperú, is a Peruvian state-owned enterprise and private law dedicated to the transportation, refining, distribution, and commercialization of fuels and other petroleum products. It has been owned by the State of Peru since 1969, is considered among the taxpayers to the treasury, and currently employs more than 2,500 people. Petroperú invests in education, health, and other sustainable development projects throughout the Peruvian territory.

Among the current strategic objectives of the company are the supply of fuel to the entire Peruvian market, as well as financial sustainability and its operations, with an emphasis on safety and care for the environment.

History

Background 

On October 9, 1968, the dictatorship of Maj General (General de Division) Juan Velasco Alvarado ordered the seizure and summary expropriation of the facilities of The International Petroleum Company (IPC), a subsidiary of Standard Oil of New Jersey, at the Talara refinery (Piura Department); carried out by General Fermín Málaga. This forced nationalization had a massive publicity effect, helped sway public opinion in favor of the military coup, and allowed the dictatorship to consolidate its grip on power. The date was declared by military Day of National Dignity and celebrated as a public holiday until the end of the dictatorship in 1980.

Beginnings 

Petroperú was created the following year by law decree issued by General Juan Velasco Alvarado on July 24, 1969. The newly created company was chaired by another General, Marco Fernández-Baca Carrasco and had to face the challenges of operating and maintaining the recently nationalized oil industry with local personnel. It had to do this without resources or technical support from global oil players, who had been alienated by the forced nationalization of the military government.

The company and the government nevertheless had the assistance of Soviet technicians and were able to retain middle managers, surviving and even thriving despite reduced production capacity. Extraction and refining progressively increased owing to oilfield discoveries in the northern jungle (Loreto Department), association agreements that followed after Gen Velasco's deposition by another coup in 1975, and the construction of the North Peruvian Pipeline (Oleoducto Norperuano).

Present 

During 2011, Petroperu participated in the construction of the Southern Pipeline, a project that aimed at improving the economic conditions in the south of the country. It also invested about 400 million dollars in the construction of the ethane pipeline that started in the city of Pisco, the same year.

In December 2020, the state oil company, at the special request of the Executive Branch, headed by President Francisco Sagasti, assumed the concession of the Natural Gas Distribution System by Pipeline Network of the South West Concession, for up to three years. This way, Petroperu takes over the administration of this temporary concession in order to guarantee the continuity of the provision of the public service of natural gas distribution through the pipeline network in the Arequipa, Moquegua and Tacna regions.

This assignment is assumed with full responsibility in a key period for the state company, which is in a modernization process that includes the implementation of important activities that allow it to evolve, maintaining the leadership and sustainability of the business, with transparency, and social and environmental responsibility.

In January 2021 it officially unveiled its new identity, the result of more than eight years of work in a transformation process that has resulted in a renewed and much cleaner version of the institution's image. With this change, Petroperu seeks to position itself in the Peruvian fuel market with a sustainable and competitive projection.

Also in 2021, it received authorization from the Executive Power to issue bonds worth up to $1 billion to finance the last phase of the modernization works of the Talara Refinery.

Products

Capacity 
Petroperú has a strategic importance in the provision of energy throughout the country. Its approximate refining capacity is 94,500 barrels per day (B/D), which represents 46% of Peru's total refining capacity. It is the owner of the Talara Refinery, the Conchán Refinery, the Iquitos Refinery, the El Milagro Refinery and the Pucallpa Refinery, five of the six refineries that exist throughout the national territory. It is known that it only operates four of these five refineries since the Pucallpa refinery is leased to Maple Gas and, on the other hand, the El Milagro Refinery has still been out of service since January 2015.

Derivatives 
The company has the necessary coverage to meet the national demand because it has a presence throughout the country. It has the capacity to meet the requirements of foreign companies and is a strategic supplier to the Armed Forces and National Police of Peru.