[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tissue bank

reparation of the cadaver tissue (e.g. transportation, refrigeration, and recovery) rather than charging money for the donated tissue itself, though it is not illegal to do so for non-transplant and or research organizations per the Uniform Anatomical Gift Act as it is for transplant and/or therapy.

The American Association of Tissue Banks (AATB) is the most recognized accrediting body for American tissue banks.
 Many universities across the U.S. also offer tissue to surgical training facilities meant for medical research and education on cadaveric specimens. Most universities obtain this tissue through their own whole body donation programs.
 In 1991, Dr. Hans Burchard of the AATB stated that over 300,000 musculoskeletal grafts are transplanted annually.
At the first European Conference on Problems of Tissue Banking and Clinical Applications, held in Berlin on Oct 24-26, 1991, many European countries joined together to adapt common practices regarding tissue banks and the European Association of Tissue Banks was created.
 The first conference represented 17 countries but by 1998, 46 countries were represented
 In Eastern Europe, the Humboldt University Medical School has had a tissue bank since 1956 and supplied 50,000 bone grafts to more than 250 hospitals between 1956 and 1991.
 Throughout Europe, the European Bone Bank Foundation, Bone Implant Services, and the Euro-Skin Bank are a few organizations that prepare donated grafts for surgery.
 Pakistan, Indonesia, Bangladesh, and Malaysia use amnion in reconstructive surgery and burns.

Commerce

Body brokers are firms or individuals that buy and sell cadaver human body parts for use of research. Trade in these body parts is performed in a manner similar to other raw materials, though many brokers insist they charge fees as opposed to selling body parts.

Procedures
House Bill 4341 was passed in 2014 regarding permission given to all schools in Michigan to receive cadavers for the promotion of education. The medical school must have a mortuary license. The law protects the bodies to be used from anything other than learning purposes. The school has to be credited by the Department of Community Health in order to receive a body and to be able to practice on it. There is a limit to the number of cadavers they have at one point in time at the house.

At the University of Washington, a body may be refused if there are signs of decomposition, severe trauma, infectious diseases, significant bedsores, obesity, jaundice, recent surgeries, or autopsied remains. The University of Washington’s School of Medicine has a continuing need for donated bodies to the Willed Body Program and accepts bodies of ages 18 years and older anywhere and only in the state of Washington. The School of Medicine is to be notified immediately at time of death. If the potential donor family does not call at this time, the donation is cancelled. The family is to be informed of any and all decisions made regarding body donation. When the study is complete, the cremated remains are either buried at the university community plot or are sent to the person on the Donor Registration Form, both at no cost.

Costs
Families will not receive compensation for the body donation. The school will typically pay for cremation costs, transportation costs and embalming. The family takes over cost responsibility of embalming if they request a funeral and the funeral home provides this service. The family is also responsible in making alternate arrangements for final disposition if the donation cannot be completed for reasons previously stated.

Uses
Anatomy is taught in the first year of most medical schools and serves as the foundation for many other courses during a medical student’s education. The donated bodies are used in anatomy labs as a learning tool giving students hands on experience. According to research done, the use of real bodies as opposed to computer stimulation has produced a better understanding of anatomy in students. The research, appearing in Anatomical Sciences Education, compared the use of cadaver based learning and computer based learning of human body structures. This research showed higher scores on anatomy exams for students using cadavers for learning opposed to computer stimulation.  Uses for the bodies include teaching other health fields as well, such as nursing or physical therapy. Current physicians use bodies to study new surgical procedures before practicing on live patients. The cadaver should be donated to the nearest medical school and not cross state lines. Faculty, staff, and students of health professions are authorized to use the anatomy lab and outsiders are restricted access. Outside of the medical field, bodies can be used for research to increase safety in military, law enforcement, sports and transportation crashes.