[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of the Jews in Luxembourg

d Grevenmacher) only two remained, in Luxembourg and in Esch.

Luxembourg government's 2015 report: The "Jewish Question" in Luxembourg (1933-1941): The Luxembourg State in the Face of Nazi Anti-Semitic Persecution. was unanimously adopted in the government and it apologized to the Jewish community.

Luxembourgian Jewry today
After the war, about 1,500 Jews who had fled Luxembourg returned, mostly merchants. Communities were re-established across Luxembourg, particularly in Luxembourg City and Esch-sur-Alzette.  Synagogues were built in both of these cities;  whilst the capital's Great Synagogue had been demolished by the Nazis. Over the second half of the twentieth century, Luxembourg's Jewish population gradually shrank, as families emigrated to other countries. In recent years, a wave of immigration by young Jews, mainly from France, attracted by good working conditions, has compensated somewhat the shrinking of the Jewish population.

On West 110th Street in Manhattan, New York City, there is an active congregation, Ramath Orah, founded by Jews who fled Luxembourg in the Nazi period led by Rabbi Dr. Robert Serebrenik, chief Rabbi of Luxembourg.  Rabbi Serebrenik and his congregation gave their new synagogue the name Ramath Orah (Hebrew for 'mountain of light', i.e. 'Luxembourg').

Antisemitism
Unlike many other countries in Europe, including some of Luxembourg's closest neighbours, there is a very low level of antisemitic behaviour and attitude in Luxembourg.  In the first half of 2002, there were no reports of antisemitic attacks in the Grand Duchy.  Hate speech and verbal aggression towards Jews are also almost unheard of.

No antisemitic political parties exist in Luxembourg.  In the late 1980s and early 1990s, the National Movement, a far-right and openly xenophobic political party, achieved moderate success by the ballot box.  Despite its attraction to neo-Nazis and its opposition to ethnic and religious minorities, most of its rhetoric was aimed at guest workers from southern Europe, and not at the Jewish population.  The National Movement folded in the mid-1990s, and no far-right organisation has taken its place.

Footnotes

External links and further reading

 Website of Chabad Lubavitch in Luxembourg (lubavitch.lu)
 Website of the Jewish community of Luxembourg (synagogue.lu)
 Website of the Jewish community of Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg
 Jewish Luxembourg
 

 

he:לוקסמבורג#יהדות לוקסמבורג