[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Maira Kalman

esigner Tibor Kalman in 1981. Over the course of their marriage, Maira and Tibor had two children, Lulu Bodoni and Alexander Onomatopoeia. They were married eighteen years until Tibor's death from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in 1999. Her children attended the City and Country School in Greenwich Village.

Kalman's mother, Sara Berman, was the early source to her inspiration behind storytelling and book reading. As a mother daughter activity, Kalman and her mother would go to the library and connect themselves to the characters of the books they would read. In 2017, Kalman and her son Alexander got together with coordinators of The Metropolitan Museum of Art and created an exhibit dedicated to Kalman's mother called "Sara Berman's Closet." Sara Berman's Closet also became a memoir that Kalman and her son worked on in dedication to their loved family member.

In 2014, Kalman has also performed in a production of Peter & the Wolf directed by Isaac Mizrahi at the Guggenheim's Peter B. Lewis Theater in New York City. Kalman's character is the duck, which is represented by the sound of an oboe.

Kalman lives in Greenwich Village in New York City.

Bibliography

References

External links 
 
 
 "The illustrated woman" (TED2007)
 Maira Kalman in conversation with Paul Holdengraber at LIVE from the New York Public Library October 23, 2007
 Studio Visit: Maira Kalman, The Paris Review
 Interview with Maira Kalman in Nashville Review
 
 "Maira Kalman: Various Illuminations (of a Crazy World)" Exhibition (2011) at the Jewish Museum, New York

1949 births
American children's book illustrators
American children's writers
American women illustrators
American women children's writers
American graphic designers
The High School of Music & Art alumni
Israeli children's writers
Israeli emigrants to the United States
Israeli graphic designers
Israeli women graphic designers
Israeli illustrators
Israeli women illustrators
Israeli women children's writers
Israeli Jews
Jewish women artists
Jewish American artists
Living people
The New Yorker people
Artists from Tel Aviv
Writers from Tel Aviv
American women graphic designers
21st-century American Jews
21st-century American women artists
AIGA medalists