[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lev Razgon

d.

Return to Moscow
Unlike many others, Razgon did not have to wait long for rehabilitation, after which he could settle in Moscow again and resume his writing. Between the 1960s and 1980s (see Publications, below) he published a number of books while privately writing about his years in the Gulag.

The memoirs were not sent abroad to be published during the Brezhnev years nor did they circulate in samizdat, unlike the memoirs of Evgenia Ginzburg or Olga Adamova-Sliozberg. It is evident, nevertheless, that Roy Medvedev had access to what he had written and incorporated some incidents they describe in his Let History Judge, first published in an English edition in 1972.

Razgon waited until Gorbachev became General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union before beginning to publish excerpts from his memoirs in a variety of Soviet literary magazines. In 1988, the Ogonyok magazine published Lev Razgon's memoir about "The President's Wife", an "unbelievable but true" story about the wife of the first Soviet's head of state Mikhail Kalinin, Ekaterina Kalinina, who was imprisoned in the labour camps of the far northern Komi: this was confirmation that Stalin made hostages of his closest colleagues' family members (another was Yelena Zhemchuzhina, the wife of Vyacheslav Molotov) to ensure they behaved as he wanted.

Encounter with an executioner
Those arrested during the Great Purges of the late 1930s were either "first category arrests", i.e. listed for execution, or "second category arrests", listed for imprisonment and exile.

Some of those in the 1st category were tortured to secure confessions that they were secret Trotskyists, agents of foreign powers and so on. After show trials of the kind mounted in Moscow from 1936 to 1938, the accused were shot. Boky's confession was not good enough and, according to NKVD records examined by Razgon in the late 1980s, his father-in-law was shot on 15 November 1937 shortly after being found guilty.

Others were executed almost immediately. In his chapter about "Niyazov", whom he met in 1977 at Moscow's Cardiology Institute, Razgon tells what that former NKVD executioner had to say concerning the hundreds and thousands of victims of such operations, despatched with a bullet to the back of the head and buried at concealed locations all over the Soviet Union.

Memorial and the Clemency Commission
In 1988, Razgon and many others (e.g. Bulat Okudzhava) left the CPSU. For a while he joined the Italian Radical Party.

In 1989, Razgon was among the founders of the Memorial Society. He was also a member of the International PEN Club.

With many other prominent writers Razgon joined the Clemency Commission  created by Boris Yeltsin and worked to secure the commutation of all death sentences to terms of imprisonment, arguing for the abolition of death penalty in Russia and reform of the judicial system.

In October 1993, during the confrontation between President Yeltsin and the Supreme Soviet, Razgon was one of the signatories of the Letter of Forty-Two.

Publications
 Shestaja Stantsiya (The Sixth Station, 1964)
 Odin God i Vsya Zhizn (One Year and All Life, 1973)
 Sila Tyazhesti (Force of Gravity, 1979)
 Zrimoe Znanie (Visible Knowledge, 1983)
 Moskovskie Povesti (The Moscow Stories, 1983),

Glasnost years
 Nepridumannoye (True Stories, 1988),
 Pered Raskrytymi Delami (Before Opened Case Files Cases, 1991),

The 1990s
 Plen v Svoyom Otechestve (A Captive in One's Homeland, 1994), an expanded version of True Stories 
 Pozavchera i Segodnya (The Day before Yesterday and Today, 1995)

In translation
Razgon's memoirs (Непридуманное, Nepridumannoe, 1988) have been translated into French, Italian and English and five other languages
 La vie sans lendemains, Horay: Paris, 1991 
 
 True Stories, published in US (1995) and in the UK (1997)
 Sin inventar NADA. El Polvo Anonimo del Gulag, 2013  (Spanish Edition)
 Χωρίς Επινοήσεις, Athens 1990 (in Greek)

Awards
In 1998, to mark Razgon's 90th birthday, he was awarded the Order of Merit for the Fatherland of the fourth class for his personal contribution to Russian literature and his active participation in the country's democratic reforms. Razgon also received the Andrei Sakharov Prize for Writer's Civic Courage.

Further reading

References

External links
 Pictures of Razgon. 
 Lev Emmanuilovic Razgon on Gardens of the Righteous Worldwide Committee - Gariwo 
  (publicly available unabridged Russian text)
 
 
 

1908 births
1999 deaths
People from Horki
People from Goretsky Uyezd
Belarusian Jews
Soviet Jews
NKVD officers
Soviet writers
20th-century Russian writers
Stalinism-era scholars and writers
Russian memoirists
Moscow State Pedagogical University alumni
Jewish Gulag detainees
Soviet dissidents
Soviet human rights activists
Soviet rehabilitations
Memorial (society)
Communist Party of the Soviet Union members
20th-century memoirists