[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Muswellbrook railway station

apacity.

Platforms and services
The station has one platform and a disused dock platform at the southern end. Muswelbrook is serviced by NSW TrainLink Hunter Line services travelling between Newcastle and Scone.

It is also served by NSW TrainLink Xplorer services from Sydney to Armidale and Moree.

Description 
The station complex comprises a type 3, second class brick station building, completed in 1869. The original station building was a small well proportioned brick structure with simple stone lintels and hipped roof. It is a rendered brick building with a hipped roof of corrugated, galvanised iron (originally slate). The building is elevated above street level. Its entrance is via steps leading to a stone flagged verandah with a hipped roof of corrugated galvanised iron, supported by timber posts. The verandah roof to the street is original. The doors are timber with moulded panels and window frames are timber, double-hung sash type.

The platform awning is an extension of the awning built at the time of construction of the adjacent refreshment room building. It is a cast iron, cantilevered awning of corrugated, galvanised iron.

The internal layout has changed since originally constructed, consisting today of a store room, waiting room, female toilets and male toilets.

The refreshment rooms, were completed in 1921–2, with additions -8. This two storey building is located immediately adjacent to the station building. Two hipped roofs clad in diamond pattern slate tiles with terracotta ridge capping and ram's head finials. The ground floor projects outward from under the first floor, so that a portion has its own roof. The roofs are finished with timber barge boards and painted rough-cast infill. The chimneys are also rough-cast cement. Tuck-pointed brickwork, timber moulded panel doors, some with transom windows, timber double-hung sash windows bordered with stone lintels and ornate, rendered sills and pressed metal cornices.

The layout consists of refreshment rooms and kitchens on the ground floor with passenger accommodation on the upper floor, with associated bathrooms and linen stores. Internally the building features pressed metal cornices and ceilings, hardwood floors, a pine staircase and balustrade.

The type 4 elevated signal box with a hip roof was completed in 1923. It is an elevated, two storey signal box on a timber frame, with pre-cast concrete and asbestos cement cladding. Lower floor comprises a drop-in, pre-cast concrete panel between concrete uprights and conventional timber-framed construction on the upper floor. A hipped roof with broad overhanging eaves, clad in fibro asbestos laid in a diamond pattern and terracotta ridge capping. Window frames are timber, double-hung sash with between 6 and 9 panes. Access is va a steel ladder and there is a toilet on the upper landing.

Other structures include a brick-faced platform, completed in 1869; a carriage dock, also completed in 1869, that was used for parcel and mail vans; and the remains of a locomotive depot, completed in 1943, including a turntable, a T145 jib crane, located within a shed, erected in 1869; and a timber loading bank.

Modifications and dates 
Changes of level of the rear of both station and refreshment room buildings have occurred after construction, as follows:
1865station building, platform, carriage dock, crane.
Early 20th centuryextension of station building to Sydney end, adding Station Master's room (back-to-back fireplace with existing (formerly external) fireplace in what is now a store room, was a parcel room). Extension had windows to the street, a fireplace and no door to the station platform (as per 1917, 1918 plans). This extension is gone now (2016).
post card photo shows two chimneys at each ends of the hipped roof, including this one at the "Sydney end". The 1917 plans show "proposed station buildings" including refreshment rooms that were never built, or never built in the configuration on the plans. A 1980 photo shows no chimney protruding from the Sydney end roof hip/ridge. This suggests the configuration of these chimneys is not original and probably dates to the mid 20th century.
1921-22Refreshment Rooms added beside station building.
1927-28addition/extension/modification of refreshment room building.
1923Signal box added.
1943Locomotive depot, including turntable, crane and jib.

Further information 

The heritage site does not include the former locomotive depot or its turntable.