[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wilsonian Armenia

ttoman Empire. Armen Garo (Karekin Pastermajian) and other spokesmen proposed to have Armenian soldiers in Europe transfer to the Caucasus front for the protection and stability of the new establishment. Armenian soldiers began to create a protective line between the Ottoman Army and Armenian front.

Demographics 
Armenian historian Ara Papian writes that in the  of territory awarded to Armenia by the Treaty of Sèvres, the pre-war population was 3,570,000, whereby Muslims formed 49 percent of the population, Armenians – 40 percent, Laz – 5 percent, Greeks – 4 percent, and others – 1 percent. Moreover, he projects that if the region had been joined to Armenia, the overall population would rise to 3 million and there would be a steady flow of Armenian repatriates to shift the demographics into the Armenians' favour. After a year of being joined to Armenia, it was predicted that the overall population would rise to 3 million (large amounts of Armenians were expected to return whereas "far few" Muslims wouldn't return to the four vilayets awarded to Armenia), whereby Armenians would form 50 percent of the population, Muslims – 40 percent, Lazes – 6 percent, Greeks – 4 percent, and others – 1 percent.

Avetis Aharonian, the head of the Armenian delegation to the Paris Peace Conference, made the conservative estimate that 815,000 Armenians abroad would repatriate to the territories awarded to Armenia: All 295,000 refugees from the Ottoman Empire within the Caucasus, 100,000 survivors in Anatolia (mainly concentrated in Sivas, Kharput, and Diyarbekir), 120,000 (out of 300,000) from Azerbaijan and Georgia each, 50,000 (out of 180,000) from Bessarabia, Crimea, the Don, and the rest of Russia, 10,000 (out of 95,000) from the North Caucasus and Batumi, 30,000 from the Balkans, 10,000 (out of 30,000) from Egypt, the Sudan, and Ethiopia, 30,000 (out of 130,000) from Iran, and 50,000 (out of 130,000) from the United States.

Aftermath
In the aftermath of the King-Crane Commissions, events on the ground took their own course. President Wilson asked the United States Congress for the authority to establish a mandate for Armenia on May 24, 1920. The United States Senate rejected his request by a vote of 52 to 23 on June 1, 1920. In September 1920, the Turkish–Armenian War broke out. The First Republic of Armenia was defeated in November 1920 and signed the Treaty of Alexandropol under which it renounced the Treaty of Sèvres along with various territorial claims to "Western Armenia". The government of Armenia was subsequently overthrown. The new Armenian government signed the Treaty of Kars, which reaffirmed the previous Armenian concessions to Turkey and determined the modern-day borders between the two countries.

In late 1922, the various international parties negotiated the Treaty of Lausanne as a replacement for the Treaty of Sèvres. Given previous Turkish-Armenian treaties and the views of the then-current Soviet Armenian government, the issue of Armenian claims to "Western Armenia" was dropped.

After World War II, the Soviet Union attempted to annul the Treaty of Kars and regain the lands ceded to Turkey. The Soviet claims were backed by much of the international Armenian diaspora, as well as the Armenian Revolutionary Federation. Armenian leaders attempted to gather British and American support for the reclamation of eastern Anatolia from Turkey, but Winston Churchill objected to the Soviet and Armenian territorial claims. Likewise, the United States State Department backed Turkey as well, saying, as it had since 1934, that its previous support for Wilsonian Armenia had since expired. The Soviet Union dropped its claims against Turkey after Stalin's death in 1953.

Modern times

Today, as a continuation of the initial goal, the creation of an independent and united Armenia consisting of all territories designated as Wilsonian Armenia by the Treaty of Sèvres is a stated aim of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation, regardless of the United States's official ending of support for the idea in 1934 and the fact that these territories are now inhabited mainly by ethnic Kurds and Turks. The Armenian Revolutionary Federation, as well as the Social Democrat Hunchakian Party and the Armenian Democratic Liberal Party in a joint statement on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Treaty of Sevres, stated that it still needs to be implemented, and that it is the only treaty signed by Turkey and the Republic of Armenia, by the free will of the Armenian side. On 10 July 2020 the President of Armenia Armen Sargsyan stated that "The Treaty of Sèvres even today remains an essential document for the right of the Armenian people to achieve a fair resolution of the Armenian issue" and that it is "a legal, interstate agreement which is de facto still in force".