[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ford Nuclear Reactor

was often open for tours.

Review Committee, 1997
In June 1997, the Ford Nuclear Reactor Review Committee submitted a report to the Vice President for Research (Vince Pecoraro, at the time) on the future of the FNR. The Committee estimated that
the reactor was costing the university $1 million/year.

Letters had been sent to various university departments as well as to other institutions that made use of the reactor, asking for input on their use of the facility.

Profs. Alex Halliday and Eric Essene from the department of Geology relied heavily on the reactor for their research in Ar-40—Ar-39 aging, and sent strong praise of the reactor. Gary Was from the department of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences explained that over 15 NERS courses rely on the reactor, as well as nearly every professor's research. The Museum of Anthropology also suggested that the loss of the reactor would have serious adverse impacts on the students and faculty. Several other departments, such as the Chemistry department, said that they had not used the reactor in 30 years and did not plan to in the future.

Outside the University community, the Michigan State University Department of Geological Science, Louisiana State University, the University of Nevada Las Vegas, Buchtel College of Arts and Sciences, the University of California Santa Barbara, the University of Georgia, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, NIST, the NRC, Sandia National Labs, EPRI, Ford, and GM all expressed interest in keeping the reactor operational, while NASA (among others) had no interest.

The final decision was to shut down and decommission the reactor.  The statement given by UM Vice President for Research was:

In recent years, however, the reactor's use by the U-M academic community has declined substantially to the point where the bulk of the users now come from the federal government and industry. Given this change, the University can no longer justify the reactor's substantial cost of operation, which now largely subsidizes non-University users.

Recent Work
Though the reactor has been shut down since 2003, the space that housed the reactor has seen little activity past the decade long dismantling of the reactor. In recent years, however, the University of Michigan has begun transforming the old reactor space into lab areas for the Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences Departments at the University of Michigan. In late 2015 the University began a $12 million dollar renovation of the space, now designated as the "Nuclear Engineering Laboratory"

Ford Nuclear Reactor Facts (1997)

Typical operating cycle
A typical full-power cycle consisted of 10 days at 2 MW followed by 4 days of shutdown maintenance, for a weekly average of 120 full-power hours. At this rate, 16 new fuel elements were required each year.

Specifications

 Reactor
 Power: 2 MW
 Moderator: Light water
 Core Volume: 
 Lattice Configuration: Grid, 8 × 6
 Standard: 41 elements
 Control: 4 elements
 Normal Average Thermal Power Density: 333.33 kW/ft3
 Vessel
 Vessel Pressureg: 
 Vessel Temperature: 
 Fuel
 Configuration: 18 curved fuel plates containing 0.167 kg of U-235.
 Enrichment: 19.5%
 Composition: UAlx in 5214 Aluminum matrix
 Clad Composition: 6061 Aluminum
 Frequency of refueling: 3 elements and 1 control element every 5 months
 Normal element lifetime: 900 MWd
 Thermal Hydraulics
 Flow direction: Vertically down through core
 Pump:  centrifugal pump and gravity
 Normal flow rate:  per minute
 Normal inlet temperature: 
 Normal temperature rise: 7-8 degrees (13.5-14.0 F)
Operating Experience
 Forced outages in past 5 years (in 1997)
Equipment Malfunction:39
Personnel Error: 7
 Past Modifications
Power increase: From 1 to 2 MW, August 5, 1963
Fuel conversion From U-Al to U-Alx, November 1978
Enrichment change: from 93% to 19.5%, December 1981
Experimental Facilities
Beamports: 10 horizontal
Thermal Neutron Flux: 
Fast Neutron Flux': 
Gamma Dose Rate: 
Hot Cells: 2, One connected to reactor pool by waterlock.
Irradiation Racks: 3 spent fuel racks
Gamma dose rate: 
Pneumatic Tubes:One on west core face
Thermal Neutron Flux: 
Fast Neutron Flux': 
Thermal Column: Inoperative (The reactor was built with a thermal column, to be a large source of thermal neutrons. However, the column began leaking early in its life and was put out of commission. )
Principal isotopes produced: fluorine-18, chlorine-36, bromine-80, bromine-82, iodine-131, sodium-24, lanthanum-140, cesium-134m.