[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ara Darzi, Baron Darzi of Denham

mdan Award for Medical Research Excellence in 2004. In 2006, Darzi and his department were awarded the Rector's Research Excellence Award for their work on surgical robots. He has also delivered many named lectures around the globe.

On 2 May 2013, Lord Darzi was elected Fellow of the Royal Society.

Darzi is an enthusiastic advocate of Patient record access arguing that interested patients and carers, especially those accustomed to self-management of their condition, should take the lead in creating apps and other means of accessing records that are customised to the needs of patient groups.

Political career
In December 2006 NHS London asked Darzi to "develop a strategy to meet Londoners' health needs over the next five to ten years" and so his report Healthcare for London: A Framework for Action was published on 11 July 2007. Largely implemented, it recommended the development of academic health science centres and the introduction of more primary services in one place: polyclinics. The plan for moving care from hospitals to GP-led polyclinics was not successful. Nick Clegg called it "the central imposition of a polyclinic on every primary care trust, regardless of the geography, demographics and clinical needs of the area". However, his call for trauma, acute stroke and heart attack services to be centralised in specialist units succeeded and has been widely copied.

He was also National Advisor in Surgery to the Department of Health. Darzi's report in this role, 'Saws and Scalpels to Lasers and Robots: Clinical case for change’ (April 2007), argued for a change to the way surgery is organised to maximise patient benefits.

On 29 June 2007 Darzi was appointed Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State in the Department of Health in the House of Lords at the Department of Health by Prime Minister Gordon Brown. He was duly raised to the peerage on 12 July 2007 as Baron Darzi of Denham, of Gerrards Cross in the County of Buckinghamshire. His appointment was a small part of a political shift by government to incorporate more talents, with historical predecessors such as the Ministry of All the Talents: however, he only lasted two years in the post.

Darzi was tasked with leading a national review to plan the course of the NHS over a decade, reporting to the Prime Minister, Chancellor, and Secretary of State for Health in June 2008. He cooperated with the Department of Health to undertake the "NHS Next Stage Review".

Darzi was quoted in The Times as saying that "...This Review should be both led and evidence-based". The final report of the Review, High Quality Care for All, was published in June 2008 to considerable public and academic acclaim. The Financial Times stated that it was "the world's most ambitious attempt to raise the quality and effectiveness of an entire nation's healthcare".  The Lancet said that:

Through High Quality Care for All, academics suggested that Darzi has updated traditional notions of professionalism and described a new accountability in clinical practice. Following publication, Darzi remained in his ministerial post. He was associated with the plan to develop Polyclinics in England.  The plan for moving care from hospitals to GP-led polyclinics was quietly reversed when the costs became apparent, but his call for trauma, acute stroke and heart attack services to be centralised in specialist units was seen as successful and was widely copied.

In June 2009, Darzi was appointed as a member of Her Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council. In July 2009, Darzi relinquished his post as Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State. The Prime Minister praised his "outstanding contribution" while The Guardian said that:

Since 2018, Darzi has been leading the National Health Service’s Accelerated Access Collaborative.

Darzi resigned as a Labour peer on 9 July 2019 to sit as an independent, citing alleged tolerance of antisemitism by the party leadership. Labour rejected the claims on antisemitism as "false and offensive", pointing to the extra resources put into addressing cases, the number dealt with and the low number relative to Labour's membership.

Parliamentary voting record
According to parliamentary monitoring website, TheyWorkForYou, as of May 2021 Darzi's voting record shows the following trends:
 consistently against measures to prevent climate change
 generally for more EU integration

Armenian issues
In October 2016 Darzi joined other prominent Armenians on calling the government of Armenia to adopt "new development strategies based on inclusiveness and collective action" and to create "an opportunity for the Armenian world to pivot toward a future of prosperity, to transform the post-Soviet Armenian Republic into a vibrant, modern, secure, peaceful and progressive homeland for a global nation."