[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# St Augustine's College (Kent)

er Global Majority students from the early period include Shapurji Edalji and Framjee James Merwanjee. Photographic portraits of some of these students (together with photographs of some white students and additional information) have been published on the St Augustine's Foundation website.

Closure

On the night of 31 May 1942, a German air-raid so badly damaged the college that it could no longer operate and the few remaining students moved away. The air-raid spread shards of glass across the campus. Canon W. F. France, the last warden of the Missionary College, spent his days picking up the glass shards. France knew that if the shards were ground in, the soil would be forever contaminated by them.

Fyndon's Great Gate entrance to the college exemplified the devastating damage: it along with buildings inside and outside the college had to be rebuilt.

One factor in the college’s permanent closure was the extensive and costly repairs that would be required to make the buildings again usable. Another factor that led to closing the college as a school for missionaries was that an Archbishops' Commission recommended the closing of separate missionary colleges. Thus, St Augustine's College never reopened as a missionary college. During its century of operation the college sent around 800 men to many parts of the world.

Central college

Closing the Missionary College in 1947 left its buildings free for other uses. The next year, the 1948 Lambeth Conference of the Anglican Communion adopted the following resolution for a new use. "In the opinion of this Conference the establishment of a central college for the Anglican Communion is highly desirable and steps should immediately be taken to establish this college, if possible at St Augustine's College, Canterbury."

The wartime damage that contributed to closing the Missionary College created the possibility for a Central College on the site. However, the damage necessitated extensive reconstruction and modernization. This done, St Augustine's College was reopened in 1952 as the Central College of the Anglican Communion with accommodation for up to 50 students.

Purposes

The Missionary College sent clergy from England to other parts of the world. The Central College brought clergy to England from other parts of the world. This bringing together priests from across the worldwide Anglican Communion served two primary purposes. One purpose was further study and research. The other purpose was bonding the Anglican Communion more closely together by common worship and by knowing and learning from each other. The worship included every student's liturgy, often in their native language.

The student body was composed of about forty priests nominated by their bishops. They came from the United States, Nigeria, the West Indies, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Africa, India, Pakistan, Japan and other parts of the Anglican Communion. Earning a diploma required at least two eight week terms in residence: at least three terms were encouraged. A diploma was also contingent on satisfactory academic work coupled with participation in the common life and faithfulness in worship.

The faculty was composed of scholars from various provinces of the Anglican Communion, including Japan, the Sudan, China, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom. The first warden was the Revd Kenneth Sansbury, who served until 1961. The second warden was the Revd Kenneth Cragg who served until the college closed in 1967.

The 1958 Lambeth Conference's Resolution 95: Ministries and Manpower – St. Augustine's College, Canterbury said that "the Conference expresses its satisfaction at the establishment of progress of St Augustine's College, Canterbury, as a central college for the Anglican Communion. It approves of the way in which its work is developing and would encourage its continuance on the present line." In spite of this verbal support, before the next Lambeth Conference, the Central College closed because of lack of support from the provinces of the Anglican Communion. Resources for the college were "always precarious". For most of its operating costs, it had to compete with other causes for voluntary contributions from the various provinces of the Anglican Communion. By the mid-1960s, the college's finances were strained and contributions were decreasing. Lack of funds "effectively constituted the demise of the college". After the Central College closed in 1967, the first warden, by then the Bishop Sansbury, laid the basic reason for its closure on "a failure of some in positions of ultimate authority to keep fresh the vision of what the Central College was intended to be, and what in great measure it succeeded in being."

From 1969–1976 St Augustine's was used by King's College, London, for a fourth year of pastoral theological training for its ordinands. The Revd Anthony E. Harvey was the warden and the Revd Kenneth S. Mason was the sub-warden.

King's School