[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 88th Illinois Infantry Regiment

pened fire again. Under fire from an entire Union division, the outnumbered Confederates retreated. Colonel Sherman led the regiment at Perryville where it sustained losses of 8 killed and 35 wounded. The Illinois Adjutant General stated that losses were 4 killed, 5 mortally wounded, and 36 wounded.

The pursuit of Bragg's army lasted until 16 October 1862, then the 88th Illinois marched to Nashville, Tennessee, reaching there on 7 November. The regiment participated in a reconnaissance to Mill Creek on 27 November. The advance to Murfreesboro, Tennessee, commenced on 26 December and the Battle of Stones River occurred on 30 December 1862 – 3 January 1863. At Stones River, the 88th Illinois under Colonel Sherman belonged to Brigadier General Joshua W. Sill's 1st Brigade, Sheridan's 3rd Division, Major General Alexander McDowell McCook's Right Wing XIV Corps, Major General William Rosecrans' Army of the Cumberland. The brigade, which consisted of the same units as at Perryville, suffered losses of 104 killed, 365 wounded, and 200 missing. Greusel took command after Sill was killed. On the morning of 31 December a Confederate assault smashed five brigades of McCook's Right Wing.

Nevertheless, for 90 minutes, Sheridan's three brigades held out against seven Confederate brigades. This terrific struggle was perhaps the "most determined stand of the entire war". Initially, the brigade was deployed with 88th Illinois, 36th Illinois, and 24th Wisconsin, from left to right, with the 21st Michigan in reserve. After a terrified horde of rabbits hopped through their lines, the 88th Illinois rose up and opened fire on advancing Confederates at a range of , forcing them back. Sheridan soon pulled the 88th Illinois and the 21st Michigan back to a new position at the Harding farm. Finally, the 88th Illinois and the 24th Wisconsin withdrew to a final position in the woods north of the Blanton house. They held out at this position until McCook ordered Greusel to withdraw his brigade. By 10:45 am, Sheridan's division had finally withdrawn, out of ammunition. The regiment suffered losses of 230 killed and wounded, including 4 officers shot, including First Lieutenant Thomas Gullich killed.

1863

The 88th Illinois was attached to 1st Brigade, 3rd Division, XX Corps, Army of the Cumberland from January to October 1863. The regiment remained near Murfreesboro until June, except when it joined an expedition toward Columbia, Tennessee, on 4–14 March. The unit served during the Tullahoma campaign from 24 June to 7 July and joined in the advance across the Tennessee River from 16 August to 22 September. The 88th Illinois fought at the Battle of Chickamauga on 19–20 September. The 88th Illinois under Lieutenant Colonel Chadbourne was attached to Brigadier General William Haines Lytle's 1st Brigade, Sheridan's 3rd Division, McCook's XX Corps, Rosecrans' Army of the Cumberland. Lytle's brigade had the same units as at Perryville and Stones River. In the battle, Lytle was killed and the brigade sustained losses of 55 killed, 321 wounded, and 84 missing.

On the second day, Sheridan's division received orders to march from the far right flank to the left flank. Soon after, a major Confederate assault broke through the Union center. Colonel Bernard Laiboldt's brigade of Sheridan's division was posted on a commanding hill with its regiments one behind the other. When Laiboldt received orders to advance, he protested leaving such a good defensive position. McCook overruled him and ordered an immediate attack, refusing Laiboldt's suggestion to arrange his regiments into line. After Laiboldt's badly deployed brigade was quickly overwhelmed, Sheridan ordered Lytle's brigade to occupy the hill. The 88th Illinois reached the crest just before the Confederates, while the rest of Lytle's brigade formed to its right. After repulsing the first attack, Lytle's brigade was defeated by a second assault and driven off the field.

From 24 September to 23 November 1863, the 88th Illinois was involved in the siege of Chattanooga. In an army reorganization in October, the regiment was attached to the 1st Brigade, 2nd Division, IV Corps, Army of the Cumberland until the end of the war. On 25 November, the unit took part in the Battle of Missionary Ridge. The 88th Illinois was led by Lieutenant Colonel Chandler, the 88th's Colonel Sherman commanded the 1st Brigade, Sheridan led the 2nd Division, Granger commanded the IV Corps, Major General George H. Thomas led the Army of the Cumberland, and Major General Ulysses S. Grant directed the combined forces. The 1st Brigade included the 36th Illinois, 44th Illinois, 73rd Illinois, 74th Illinois, 88th Illinois, 22nd Indiana, 2nd Missouri, 15th Missouri, and 24th Wisconsin Infantry Regiments. The 1st Brigade lost 30 killed, 268 wounded, and 3 missing in the fighting.