[Source: PubMed]

63. J Neurochem. 2026 Mar;170(3):e70397. doi: 10.1111/jnc.70397.

Dysregulated Plasticity in Serotonin, Galanin, and Opioid Systems Contributes to 
Limbic Seizure Recruitment in Wistar Audiogenic Rat.

Camilo TA(1), Valentim-Lima E(1), de Oliveira JAC(2), Garcia-Cairasco N(2), Reis 
LC(3), Nani JV(1), Mecawi AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Universidade Federal 
de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Departament of Physiology, Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão Preto, 
Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.
(3)Department of Physiological Sciences, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas e da 
Saúde, Universidade Federal Rural Do Rio de Janeiro, Seropédica, Brazil.

The Wistar Audiogenic Rat (WAR) strain is a genetically selected model of reflex 
epilepsy, susceptible to mesencephalic and, following chronic stimulation, 
limbic seizures. In this study, we examined the molecular underpinnings of this 
seizure progression by assessing gene expression profiles of pre-synaptic 
serotonergic components in Dorsal Raphe Nucleus (DRN) and post-synaptic 
receptors in the Basolateral Amygdala (BLA), Central Amygdala (CeA), and 
Hippocampus (HIP). Concurrently, we evaluated mRNA expression of Galanin (Gal) 
and Prodynorphin (Pdyn) in the Supraoptic Nucleus (SON) and their respective 
receptors in the BLA, CeA, and HIP. WARs and control Wistar rats underwent a 
ten-day audiogenic kindling (AK) protocol, involving twice-daily exposure to a 
high-intensity acoustic stimulus to induce seizures. WARs were sub-grouped based 
on their behavioral phenotype (seizure scales) into limbic-recruited seizures 
(LiR) and non-limbic-recruited (n-LiR). Quantitative PCR analysis of brain 
micropunches revealed a significant failure of adaptive plasticity in WARs. 
Unlike control rats, which showed a robust upregulation of serotonergic 
(5-HT-ergic) components in the DRN in response to the chronic stress of the 
kindling protocol, WARs had a significantly blunted pre-synaptic response. Rats 
that did not show limbic seizures showed compensatory upregulation of amygdala 
5-HT receptors, a mechanism that failed in rats that developed chronic seizures. 
Furthermore, WARs showed elevated hypothalamic galanin but reduced limbic 
receptor expression. The opioid system was also imbalanced, with an increase in 
the pro-convulsant mu-opioid receptor. Critically, Pdyn expression was strongly 
and negatively correlated with limbic seizure severity. Collectively, these 
findings suggest that the progression to limbic epilepsy, already demonstrated 
in behavioral and EEG protocols in this model, is driven by a widespread failure 
of plasticity across interconnected neuromodulatory networks, rather than a 
single molecular defect, highlighting novel targets for therapeutic 
intervention.

© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.70397
PMCID: PMC12968381
PMID: 41797229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.