[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Watson Kirkconnell

al verse, had significant conflicts as he grew older against Silent Generation and Baby Boomer free verse poets, who preferred to emulate the work of Ezra Pound.

In 1968, Kirkconnell was made an Officer of the Order of Canada "for his services at home and abroad as an educator, scholar and writer".

Death and legacy
He died at Wolfville, Nova Scotia in 1977. Hungarian Helicon, his last collection of verse translations of Hungarian literature was published posthumously in 1986. Despite Kirkconnell's espousal of both anti-Semitism and Holocaust revisionism in his later life, the posthumously published The Hungarian Helicon included his translations of four poems by Jewish poet Miklós Radnóti. Intriguingly, three of the Radnóti poems that Kirkconnell translated were written down in a notebook that the poet carried while on a death march at the end of World War II, and were published only after Radnóti became, at the hands of the Royal Hungarian Army, perhaps the most widely lamented victim of the Holocaust in Hungary.

His private papers are preserved at the Acadia University Archives, through which Gordon L. Heath was able to document Kirkconnell's secret role as an RCMP Security Service informant during the early Cold War, in Wolfville, Nova Scotia.

Since his death, Watson Kirkconnell's books about Canadian history have been increasingly criticized for largely ignoring local Indigenous history. Ironically, despite his refusal to acknowledge the contributions, cultures, and languages of non-White Canadians, the ongoing Indigenous Canadian language revivals are part of the legacy of Kirkconnell's arguments in favor of embracing a multilingual cultural mosaic within Canadian society. One may say the same about the ongoing revivals of Canadian Gaelic and Acadian French in Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, and New Brunswick, of Canadian Ukrainian in the Western Provinces, and of the Irish language in Newfoundland by the local chapters of Conradh na Gaeilge.

At the same time, however, as multiculturalism in Canada has drifted, as part of a process of radicalization, far beyond recognition from Kirkconnell's original vision, it has faced escalating criticism. In his book Selling Illusions, Neil Bissoondath, a Canadian author with South Asian familial roots, argues that radicalized multiculturalism gives such an overemphasis upon the former or ancestral homeland as more important than Canada, which discourages New Canadians from feeling loyalty or gratitude towards their adopted country.

Some New Canadians, according to journalist Steven Edgington, have accused the Canadian Government of promoting only "an aroma" or a façade of multiculturalism, while being guilty of religious intolerance, for example, whenever the moral and ethical codes of Eastern Religions such as Hinduism or Buddhism conflict with Identity Politics and Gender ideology.

Despite his lifelong varying belief in some White Supremacist ideas, Kirkconnell also believed very firmly in Canadian patriotism, freedom of speech, the rule of law, and freedom of religion. He would accordingly have been horrified by the rise of cancel culture, censorship, and the Far Left radicalization of the very multicultural ideology he helped to create.

Bibliography