[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Winter Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China

umn suddenly surrounded Faku, while at the same time, the communist 4th column approached Shenyang.  In the meantime, the communist 1st column, 3rd column, 6th column, and 7th column penetrated into the regions surrounding Tieling, Xinmin, Shenyang and Faku, while the 10th column approached Kaiyuan.

On December 18, 1947, the 22nd division of the Nationalist Newly Organized 6th Army was sent out from Tieling to reinforce Faku, but was ambushed by the Communist 2nd and 7th columns on the way, losing an entire regiment, after which the Nationalist reinforcement retreated back to Tieling.  Another regiment of the Nationalist 59th division was also lost to the same Communist units to the south of Faku, and as a result, the nationalists temporarily suspended all rescue attempts to relieve Faku.  To counter the Communist threat to Shenyang, Chen Cheng strengthened defense of Tieling, Xinmin, Shenyang regions by redeploying the 50th division and the 53rd division from Changchun, the 81st division and the 91st division from Siping (city), the 195th division from southern Liaoning, the 43rd division and 54th division from Jinzhou.  Chen Cheng's redeployment of his troops left many areas vulnerable, and taking this advantage,  the Communist 2nd column and the 7th column took Zhangwu after annihilating the 79th division of the 49th Army of the Nationalist defenders of city on December 28, 1947.  The next day, the Nationalist 207th division deployed to the northwest of Shenyang was badly mauled by the Communist 6th column.  Fearing the Nationalist formations would be decimated once left their strongholds, Chen Cheng ordered his troops to assume defensive positions behind city walls instead of going out to engage the enemy.

In order to lure the nationalists out of their strongholds, the Communist 1st column penetrated into central Liaoning region, while the 4th column penetrated into the regions between Shenyang and Liaoyang, and the 8th column along with the 9th column attacked the isolated Nationalist outposts.  Smaller cities like Beipiao, Heishan, Tai'an and  fell into communist hands.

Second stage

After witnessed the separate enemy offensives and learning that the Communist 1st column and the 2nd column remained at Zhangwu, Chen Cheng believed that the communist force was no longer concentrated together and thus he had an opportunity to launch a counterattack.  The five Nationalist armies deployed at Shenyang, Xinmin and Tieling were ordered to attack westward from Shenyang, hoping to relieve Faku by destroying the Communist 1st column, 6th column, and the 10th column.  The Nationalist push begun on January 1, 1948, in three fronts:

The Newly Organized 3rd Army and the Newly Organized 6th Army in the north
The Newly Organized 1st Army and The 71st Army in the middle
The Newly Organized 5th Army along with the 43rd division and the 195th division in the south.

Learning the news of the nationalists sending out reinforcement, the Communists planned to concentrate a total of 7 columns to destroy the weakest Nationalist southern front:

The Communist 1st column, 4th column, and 10th column were deployed to the north and northwest of Shenyang to prevent other Nationalist fronts from reinforcing the southern front
The Communist 6th column engaged the Nationalist troops in the southern front and lured the enemy to around the town of .
The Communist 2nd column, 3rd column and the 7th column penetrated deep behind the Nationalist line, surrounding the enemy.

Not willing to risk losing any territory, Chen Cheng divided his force into half: half of the force would relieve the besieged southern front, while the remaining half would continue the push to Faku.  The Communist resistance was much greater than nationalists had expected, resulting in neither half had the enough strength needed to complete their missions.  On January 5, 1948, the Communist trap was completed and a full-scale assault on the besieged enemy was launched.  Two days later on January 7, 1948, the Nationalist southern front was completely devastated, with the commander of the Newly Organized 5th Army and the commanders the 43rd division and the 195th division captured alive by the Communists.  Learning the news of the defeat of the southern front, the Nationalist reinforcements to Faku and the southern front both withdrew back to Shenyang and Tieling.