[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Matías Emilio Delgado

Matías Emilio Delgado (born 15 December 1982) is a retired  Argentine footballer who last played as an attacking midfielder for Swiss Super League Club FC Basel.

Club career

Chacarita Juniors
Delgado worked his way through the youth ranks of River Plate before making a professional debut with Chacarita Juniors at the age of 17. His breakthrough performance came in the Torneo Apertura of the 2002–03 Argentine Primera División when he recorded a goal and an assist in the Round 8 loss to Independiente, which was followed by a superb curling effort that found the back of the net in the Round 13 loss to Boca Juniors. Ahead of the Torneo Clausura, Delgado was given the number 10 jersey after previously wearing number 11. This also marked a shift in his on-field position towards a more playmaking role in the centre of midfield for the latter half of the season, having primarily operated on the left wing before. One of his standout performances came in the Round 5 trashing of Huracán when he scored two goals while also being a constant threat to the opposition with his incisive passing in the final third and long-range shot attempts. He added one more goal in the Round 18 draw with Racing, bringing his total goal tally to five.

Delgado started the 2003-04 season with Chacarita, playing three games and providing a crucial assist with an exquisitely executed through ball to secure a crucial win against San Lorenzo in Round 1. However, he soon left the club, sealing a move to Europe at the age of 20.

With Chacarita, Delgado made over 50 appearances in the Argentinian top-flight, scoring five goals in the process.

FC Basel
Delgado's performances in Argentine Primera División caught the eye of several European clubs, but it was the Swiss giants FC Basel that signed him on a four-year contract in August 2003 for a reported fee of 1.2 million Swiss francs, after their chief scout Ruedi Zbinden watched him live in Argentina on several occasions and invited him for a trial. 
He emerged as the club's marquee signing for the 2003-04 season, shouldering the weight of expectations to fill the void left by the departure of star player Hakan Yakin. Delgado made his debut with RotBlau at St. Jakob-Park on 3 September 2003 when he was brought on for Sébastien Barberis in the 68th minute. Just two minutes later, he played a decisive ball to Hervé Tum for the team's third goal as Basel beat St. Gallen 4–1 in Round 9 of the 2003-04 Swiss Super League. Despite a promising start, Basel's coach, Christian Gross, had often left Delgado on the substitutes' bench, aiming to better integrate him into the system before granting him more starting opportunities. Delgado scored his first goal for Basel on 2 October in the Round 12 away win against Neuchâtel Xamax, unleashing a powerful shot from the edge of the box following a cross from Scott Chipperfield. His exceptional performance in that game won him the hearts of the fans, who clamored for him to be a regular starter.  The fans' sentiment did not go unnoticed by Gross, who decided to give Delgado more playing time from then on. Nonetheless, the dynamics between the player and the coach retained a challenging undertone, even though Delgado conceded the necessity of Gross's stringent approach in certain moments.

Delgado made his debut in European competitions on 24 September, playing full 90 minutes in the team's first leg victory against Malatyaspor in the first round of the 2003–04 UEFA Cup. Despite a solid start to his career in Switzerland, Delgado faced an unfortunate setback when an untimely injury caused him to miss some crucial matches, including the team's decisive games in the UEFA Cup and the Swiss Cup. The unexpected return of Hakan Yakin, whose contract with PSG was cancelled, also meant that he was deployed in a less attacking role than usual, which limited his offensive contribution. Delgado finished the season featuring in 20 league games and scoring twice in the process as Basel was crowned league champions.