[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yellow-bellied toad

Wildlife and Sustainable Farming Project 2009}}</ref> A study published in 2016 in the Canadian Journal of Zoology indicated that tadpoles in warmer water develop more quickly than those in cooler climates, meant to mimic the differing environments found in forested areas and sunny quarries.

Mating

 Mate searching behavior 
To maximize mating for a male, some yellow-bellied male toads will engage in water-wave-producing behavior. This is where a male will kick its hind legs into a small body of water, generating a wave-like pattern. This pattern not only attracts females but is a mechanism of making a male’s territory known. Since yellow-bellied toads have very specific, typically risky, breeding sites, having a territory is very important since the highest chance of offspring survival occurs ponds that last longer. Not all males can exhibit this wave-generating behavior because it is exclusive to ponds of a specific depth.
 Male/male interactions 
In the instance where the owner of a territory comes into contact with an intruder, the owner will move towards the intruder and engage in a fight. The fight consists of each male trying to climb the other’s back, with the winner eventually holding the other frog down through its legs while climbing its back. The loser immediately swims away while the winner begins exhibiting wave-producing behavior at very high frequencies, marking its territory.

 Parental care 

 Site selection for egg-laying 
The yellow-bellied toad has the ability to breed in unpredictable habitats and locations, including shallow pools that have the ability to disappear overnight. Within the Bombinatoridae family, the yellow-bellied toad is the only species that chooses to breed in such unpredictable sites.

The yellow-bellied toad lays eggs in ponds of a particular temperature and duration. When given the choice between a warm pond, or a cooler one, the frog will lay its eggs in the warmer pool because of heat being conducive for healthy egg growth and development. Therefore, laying in warmer ponds increases the reproductive fitness of the frog.The frog would also prefer ponds that persist for an intermediate period of time because laying eggs in a pond that persists for a long time risks the introduction of a large number of predators to the eggs while short-lived ponds have too few as well as carrying the risk of desiccation. A key component of site selection is the ability for rapid development to occur. Site selection and rapid development are key to survival because most deaths occur at this stage. It was found that pond duration, rather than risk of predation is the most critical factor to site selection. Pond desiccation, unlike predation, has the ability to kill an entire group of tadpoles or eggs.