[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Day the World Gets 'Round

, or it might be his metaphor for a rejection of conceit. If ego-driven politicians and self-serving military leaders were able to bow before anything, even a 'concept' like God, the world would be a better place. 'The Day the World Gets 'Round' laments human nature and calls for a little humility."

Dale Allison, a Christian theologian, views these lyrics as a song-wide message where Harrison "mourns how few are working for a better world and paying homage to God". Allison refutes the idea of any elitism or superiority in Harrison's compositions, suggesting: "George nowhere claims to have arrived [at his spiritual goal]; he is rather always a pilgrim, always on the road. In the words of 'The Day the World Gets 'Round,' he is one of those who has 'made a start,' nothing more."

The same three biographers comment on the comparisons between Harrison and Dylan that were encouraged by this and other Harrison songs from 1971 to 1973, during a period when, author Peter Doggett writes, the ex-Beatle was "arguably music's most influential figure". Leng views Harrison's call for humility in "The Day the World Gets 'Round" as "identical to the thrust" of Dylan's "Masters of War", a protest song written about the 1962–63 Cold War arms race. Inglis suggests that whereas Dylan adopts the more analytical approach of an observer in his politically themed songs, Harrison "appears as a campaigner who is there to convert"; his words duly carry "a suggestion of self-satisfaction", Inglis opines, while also remarking on the "overall pessimism" of "The Day the World Gets 'Round". Allison contrasts the song with "Slow Train Coming", a lyrically uncompromising Dylan composition reflecting the American singer's late-1970s conversion to born-again Christianity, and cites "The Day the World Gets 'Round" as an example of how Harrison's worldview instead "entails a happy ending".

Recording
Speaking in February 1977, Harrison told BBC Radio's Anne Nightingale that the Bangladesh relief project took "two years solid" of his life. Doggett describes 1972 as a year of "recuperation and retreat" for the ex-Beatle, interspersed with meetings "to determine which department of which government was now stalling the funds so desperately needed in the newly independent nation". Harrison received UNICEF's "Child Is the Father of Man" award in New York on 5 June 1972 and then oversaw the delayed British release of the Concert for Bangladesh film on 27 July, after which he was able to dedicate himself to working on the long-awaited follow-up to his 1970 triple album, All Things Must Pass.

Sessions for Living in the Material World took place at Apple Studio in central London and at Harrison's Friar Park studio, FPSHOT, beginning in October 1972. Despite his original intention to co-produce with Phil Spector as before, Harrison was sole producer throughout the sessions, with Phil McDonald again serving as recording engineer. While Harrison succeeded in paring down the album's production after the Wall of Sound excesses of All Things Must Pass, commentators note that he incorporated aspects of Spector's signature style on this and other songs on Material World, through the use of orchestral strings and brass, a choir and multiple drummers.

On the basic track for "The Day the World Gets 'Round", Harrison used the same rhythm section that had supported him at the Concert for Bangladesh – bassist Klaus Voormann and drummers Ringo Starr and Jim Keltner – along with keyboard players Nicky Hopkins and Gary Wright. The latter's contribution, on harmonium, is prominent on the take available unofficially on Living in the Alternate World, a bootleg compilation containing pre-overdubbed versions of the officially released songs, but was subsequently superseded by John Barham's orchestral arrangements.

As an example of a more subtle production aesthetic compared with Spector's, Harrison "gave the tunes breathing space, allowing the instruments to sparkle", Rodriguez writes. His chiming acoustic-guitar harmonics sound out alone during the occasions when the words "The day the world gets 'round" are sung. Inglis describes Barham's string arrangement on the recording as "almost identical" to that on John Lennon's Beatles composition "Across the Universe", and other reviewers have similarly likened "The Day the World Gets 'Round" to that song, and to the All Things Must Pass tracks "Isn't It a Pity" and "Beware of Darkness". Along with Harrison's vocal parts, the overdubs for Barham's contributions took place in London during the first two months of 1973. Mixing on the album was completed by the start of March, shortly before the Concert for Bangladesh won the Grammy Award for best album of 1972.

Material World Charitable Foundation