[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Movement for Autonomy

as Party of Sicilians (PdS). Lombardo decided not to stand for re-election and the PdS chose to support Gianfranco Micciché, leader of Great South (GS), for president, as part of a "Sicilianist" coalition. Micciché won 15.4% of the vote, while the PdS obtained a mere 9.5% and ten regional deputies.

The PdS/MpA failed to pass the electoral thresholds in the 2013 general election, but, thanks to an agreement with the PdL, had one deputy (Angelo Attaguile) and two senators (Antonio Scavone and Pippo Compagnone) elected. Attaguile chose to team up with the LN in the "Lega Nord–Autonomies" parliamentary group. Attaguile later left the PdS/MpA and joined to Us with Salvini (NcS), becoming its national secretary.

In the 2017 regional election the PdS/MpA formed teamed up with Cantiere Popolare (CP) under the banner of "Populars and Autonomists". The list won 7.1% of the vote, obtained six regional deputies and entered the regional government led by Nello Musumeci, the newly elected president of Sicily.

In December 2017 the PdS/MpA was a founding member of Us with Italy (NcI), a pro-Silvio Berlusconi centrist electoral list within the centre-right coalition for the 2018 general election, along with CP, Direction Italy (DI), Civic Choice (SC), Act! (F!) and splinters of Popular Alternative (AP – two groups, a liberal one led by Enrico Costa and a Christian-democratic one led by Maurizio Lupi). NcI was later enlarged to the Union of the Centre (UdC) and Identity and Action (IdeA), with the goal of reaching 3%, required to win seats from proportional lists under a new electoral law.

The Movement for New Autonomy
In December 2020, Matteo Salvini and Roberto Di Mauro signed a federative agreement between the League and the Movement for New Autonomy (Movimento per la Nuova Autonomia, MNA) based on a series of key points: "Infrastructural development, taxation of ten-year advantage for companies that want to invest in Sicily, a relentless fight against organised crime, Sicilian agri-food development, tourism and strengthening of Sicilian autonomy and administrative in favor of municipalities, simplification and digitisation."

In 2022 the party resumed its original name, Movement for Autonomy.

In the 2022 regional election the party, again in a joint list with CP, won 6.8% of the vote.

Electoral results

Italian Parliament

European Parliament

Sicilian Regional Assembly

Leadership
(Federal) Secretary: Raffaele Lombardo (2005–2012), Giovanni Pistorio (2012)/ Agazio Loiero (2012–2013), Giuseppe Maria Reina (2017–2018), Roberto Di Mauro (2018–present)
Regional Secretary (PdS): Giovanni Pistorio (2012–2015), Rino Piscitello (2013–2015)
(Federal) President: Vincenzo Scotti (2008–2010)

See also
Southern Italy autonomist movements

References

2005 establishments in Italy
The Autonomy
Christian democratic parties in Italy
Catholic political parties
Political parties in Sicily
Political parties established in 2005
Regionalist parties in Italy