[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Robert Nimmo

g the death of the previous CMOCanadian Brigadier-General Harry Anglein an aircraft crash. Given his reputation for calmness and resolution, and his wide experience, Nimmo was selected for the role, arriving in Kashmir in November. His wife Mary arrived three months later, along with their children.

The role of UNMOGIP was to monitor the  long ceasefire line between the Indian and Pakistani armed forces, which began in the lowland Kashmir Valley and extended through rugged and mountainous territory to the Himalayas in the north. Soon after Nimmo's appointment, there was a need to appoint a new UN mediator in the conflict to replace Dixon. American and some British decision-makers were interested in giving Nimmo the role alongside his appointment as CMO, but the Australian Department of External Affairs eventually took the view that to do so might undermine Nimmo's position as CMO. The formal relationship between the UN mediatorthe American Frank Porter Grahamand Nimmo was described as "vague and uncertain". From 1952, following Nimmo's advocacy for their inclusion and the personal intervention of the Australian Prime Minister, Robert Menzies, UNMOGIP included Australians. Initially drawn from the Reserve of Officers and the part-time Citizen Military Forces, from 1958 they began to be selected from the recently expanded regular army as well. The use of regular officers reduced in the early 1960s as Australia's commitments in South-East Asia increased. According to two Australian officers who served with UNMOGIP in the mid-1960s, Nimmo deployed the Australians and New Zealanders to the toughest posts as he trusted them the most.

Nimmo's command was small, ranging from 30 to 99 personnel over the course of his period in command, but he consistently strove to ensure that the number of staff matched the work that was required, aiming to minimise the demands on contributing countries and maintain morale among the observers. He regularly visited officers along the ceasefire line, and his sporting skill, especially in polo, was much admired among all he interacted with. Nimmo quickly garnered a reputation as hardworking and efficient, and as an ideal military observer, "a model of firmness, tact, and silence". In 1953 Nimmo suffered a heart attack while travelling to the UN in New York and required some months to recover, but he was not replaced due to the high regard in which he was held by the UN. His Australian chief of staff initially performed his duties in his absence, but eventually the Belgian Major General Bennett Louis de Ridder was appointed as acting CMO for three months. After Nimmo reached the statutory retirement age of 60 in November 1953, extensions to his tenure were at the discretion of the UN Secretary-General, and they kept being approved because he was so well regarded by the UN.

When Nimmo returned after his convalescence, de Ridder remained with UNMOGIP, creating an awkward situation where there were two major generals appointed to the observer group, and rumours circulated that de Ridder would eventually replace Nimmo. The UN Secretariat suggested that Nimmo be promoted to lieutenant general to overcome this issue, and in recognition of his "outstanding ability, both in military matters and in diplomatic functions which he has been called on to perform". Although some in the Department of External Affairsrather cynically, according to the Australian official war historianssuggested that Nimmo was seeking this promotion for himself, they directed the request to the Department of Defence. Defence pointed out that Nimmo was on the Retired List and could not be substantively promoted, but that he could be granted the honorary rank of lieutenant general while he remained with UNMOGIP. In November 1954, Nimmo was granted the honorary promotion, which he held until his death. In the same year, Indian complaints about the American observers resulted in the end of their contribution to UNMOGIP, and according to the Australian High Commissioner to India, Walter Crocker, Nimmo was content to see them go, as he did not consider them suited to the role. From November 1956, Nimmo made it his practice to appoint a Canadian colonel as his chief of staff. A hard worker himself, Nimmo also had high expectations of his staff. He progressively expanded the field regulations for UNMOGIP and provided copies to both sides of the conflict.