[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Estonian Defence League

n.

In 1999 the Estonian Parliament adopted the EDL Law, which provided the position of the Kaitseliit in society and national defence and also described its main tasks, structure, legal basis for operations and control and co-operation with the Defence Forces, Police, and other state organizations.

Organization
The organisation is divided into 4 Territorial Defence Districts () that consist of 15 Defence League regional units () whose areas of responsibility mostly coincide with the borders of Estonia's counties.

In case of mobilization, each of the districts will form a battalion sized maneuver unit.

 Northern Territorial Defence District: Tallinn, Harju and Rapla malevs
 Northeastern Territorial Defence District: Alutaguse, Viru, Jõgeva and Järva malevs
 Southern Territorial Defence District: Põlva, Sakala, Tartu, Valgamaa and Võrumaa malevs
 Western Territorial Defence District: Pärnumaa, Lääne and Saaremaa malevs

Today, the Defence League has over 15,000 reservists. The affiliated organisations of the Defence League combine more than 25,000 volunteers, in all, and include the Estonian Defence League's women's corps (), the Estonian Defence League's boys’ corps (), and the Estonian Defence League's girls’ corps ().

Affiliated organisations

Women's Voluntary Defence Organization (WVDO)
WVDO –  ( (NKK)) is an organisation within Kaitseliit.  Every member of WVDO has a function/task in a case of crises (civilian or armed)

 Military defence - every member has the option to contribute in a military unit as a combatant
 Comprehensive national defence - evacuation units  civil defence affairs (courses, app), We Salute! campaign to support veterans, youth work, co-operation with MoI (Rescue Board, Police and Boarder Guard, Emergency Response Centre etc.)
 Communit member - Member of WVDO with skills and knowledge of basic training is able to cope in all situations and different crises. Willing to take initiative and responsibility in all stages of crises. Empowerment of women!
Defence League's girls’ corps – "Home Daughters"

The Defence League's girls’ corps –  was established to increase patriotic feelings and readiness to defend the independence of Estonia among young girls; to enhance the love for home and fatherland; to encourage respect for the Estonian language and ways of thinking; to be honest, enterprising, responsible, and capable of decision-making; to respect nature; and to respect one's parents and others.

Defence League's boys’ corps – "Young Eagles"

The Defence League's boys’ corps – . The objective of the organisation is to raise these young people as good citizens with healthy bodies and minds. In addition to numerous interesting activities, such as parachute jumping, flying gliders, orienteering, shooting weapons, etc., the boys’ corps also participates in numerous events, the most popular but also the most difficult being the Mini-Erna 35 km reconnaissance competition.

Culture

The Estonian Victory Day (1919) has been celebrated until WWII with military parades, organized by the Kaitseliit. Since 2000, Victory Day parades have been organized by Kaitseliit again every June 23. The 2015 parade also saw a rising number of military contingents from NATO countries take part: Latvia, the United States, Finland, Poland and Sweden, while 2016, aside from the US and Latvian troops also featured new contingents from Lithuania and Denmark.

In 2006, the first Fleet Review in Estonian history was conducted by Kaitseliit in June in Saaremaa.

In 2016, the Sakala subdivision of Estonian Defence League formed the first Estonian military pipe band and their first performance was during the yearly Victory Day parade the same year. Band uses 4 sets of drums and 12 special sets of "war pipes" made by Andres Taul. Idea for such a unit originally came from President Lennart Meri in 2001 whilst he was visiting the Viljandi Folk Music Festival. The idea was later revived by President Toomas Hendrik Ilves in 2010 and Ando Kiviberg, notable local piper and head of Viljandi's folk festival, was assigned to form the band. According to Kiviberg one of the goals of the band is also to promote bagpipes amongst males, as Estonia is lacking male pipers.

Personnel

Leadership
The Commander of Defence League  is the highest-ranking officer of the Defence League; though he may not be the senior officer by time in grade. The Commander has the responsibility to man, training, equip and develop the organization. He does not serve as a direct battlefield commander. The Commander is a member and head of the Chief of Staff which is the main organizational tool of the Commander. The Commander is appointed by the Commander of the Defence Forces or by the Supreme Commander in Chief of the Defence Forces. The current Commandant is major general Riho Ühtegi, who assumed the position in 2019. As of 2020, Colonel Eero Rebo is the Defence League Chief of Staff.

Ranks and insignia

Uniforms