[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fast Attack Boats

nts that took place during the 1973 Arab-Israeli War, but instead is designed as a game that "captures the flavor of the actual events."  Consequently, it does not simulate any particular naval exchange or geographic area, instead opting for generic open seas engagements with player-selected fleets.

The rulebook's "Brief Historical Summary" incorrectly characterizes the 1973 Arab-Israel War's naval encounters as "one of the most decisive and stunning victories by a weaker power in the history of sea warfare," and that if "the Arab powers had been able to gain control of the sea, they could have disrupted the flow of supplies to Israel, which could have meant disaster for the hard-pressed Israeli Army."  While the Israeli Navy's performance was impressive, it was not one of naval history's stunning victories and had no effect on the ground campaigns in the Golan or the Sinai where the conflict was decided.  Moreover, while the United States did begin resupplying Israel at the end of the first week of the war, these military supplies were sent via air, and even then arrived too late and in too few quantities to influence the outcome of the war.  The legacy of the conflict instead lies in the debut of electronic countermeasures in naval combat and the widespread use of cruise missiles.

The designer also takes liberties with the actual equipment and tactics both sides employed during the conflict.  For example, Fast Attack Boats does not factor in Israel's highly effective electronic countermeasures that rendered the Arab Styx missiles largely useless, or the Syrian fleet's use of unwitting merchant ships to hide behind from incoming Israeli Gabriel missiles.  The rules do devote significant attention to ramming an opponents boat, although this tactic was not used in the 1973 Arab-Israeli War and is generally not a feature of 20th century naval combat, but probably reflects the narrow confines of the mapboard and the near inevitability of the two fleets crossing one another's path during game play.

Credits 
Design and Research: Neil Zimmerer
Development and Rules: S. Craig Taylor, Jr.
Production Coordination: J. Stephen Peek
Box Art: Charles Micah
Graphics: Yaquinto Printing Co.
Playtesters: Mayfair Wargamers, Bob Armstrong, Nolan Bond, Joel Breger, Chris Cornaghie, William Cutrer, Kevin Duke, John Ford, Dave Furguson, William Glankler, Frank Hernandez, Wayne Lanham, James McDonnel, Steve Peek, Mike Pellam, Cliff Pellam, George Petronis, Ed Safley, John Paul Snellen, and John White

Reception
In the March 1981 edition of Dragon (Issue 47), Roberto Camino found the graphics a bit drab compared to other games on the market, but considered the rules "quite complete". Camino criticized the single map, which he found to be quite confining for combat based on boats that historically used hit and run tactics. He also questioned the premise of the basic game, in which historical accuracy was sacrificed for ease of play. Camino concluded, "While Fast Attack Boats is undeniably fun and fulfills its intent of being a good game, those looking for extensive insight into small craft tactics had better look in another direction."

References

Sources 

Elusive Victory: The Arab-Israeli Wars, 1947-1974, by Trevor N. Dupuy, Harper and Row, New York, 1978
A Survey of Arab-Israeli War Games, by Ian Chadwick, in Moves Magazine #55, February–March 1981, p13, 17
Fast Attack Boats, by Don Lowry, in Campaign Magazine #102, March–April 1982
Arabs at War: Military Effectiveness 1948-1991, by Kenneth M. Pollack, University of Nebraska Press, Lincoln, Nebraska, 2002

External links 
 
 Fast Attack Boats at Web-Grognards

Board games introduced in 1980
Naval board wargames
Yaquinto Publications games
Yom Kippur War board wargames