[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Le Paradis massacre

d proper trial. On 25 October at 11:30, the president of the court pronounced the verdict that the defendant had been found guilty of war crimes. His lawyer, Dr Uhde, made the following plea to the court for clemency on account of Knöchlein's wife and family, who had attended every day of the trial:

All that is left for me to say is that some little doubt may have remained in the minds of the Court which will enable the members not to award the extreme penalty. Spare the life of the accused. He has a wife and four children who are dependent upon him for support. Consider also the fact that he is a soldier, and the Court is composed of members of the British Army. I believe I am entitled to appeal to the Court to pronounce a sentence which will enable my client to come out of prison at an early date.

Despite this plea, at 15:00 he was sentenced to death by hanging, which was carried out on 28 January 1949 in Hamelin. No other German soldiers or officers were prosecuted for their roles in the massacre. Lieutenant-Col Scotland later expressed anger that Private Pooley had not been believed when he was repatriated: had his version of event been properly investigated at the time, an immediate investigation through the International Court in Geneva would have shone 'a worldwide spotlight on the crimes of the SS'. He considered that such attention might have brought a halt to the more savage breaches of international law before the end of the war.

See also
List of massacres in France
Wormhoudt massacre - massacre of British and French prisoners of war (28 May 1940)
Oignies and Courrières massacre - massacre of French civilians (28 May 1940)
Vinkt massacre - massacre of Belgian civilians (26-28 May 1940)

Notes

References
Books and articles

 Lt-Col A.P. Scotland, The London Cage, London: Landsborough Publications, 1957.

Web

 

1940 in France
20th-century military history of the United Kingdom
Germany–United Kingdom military relations
Massacres in 1940
Massacres in France
May 1940 events
Military history of Norfolk
Paradis
War crimes of the Waffen-SS
World War II in the Pas-de-Calais
World War II prisoner of war massacres by Nazi Germany