[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Clint Courtney

breaking player-manager Arky Biggs's hand. This started a small fight between the teams. Senator Billy Martin swore to target Courtney in future games whenever he got the chance. In 114 games for Bisbee, Courtney batted .319 with 71 runs scored, 136 hits, five home runs, and 80 runs batted in (RBI).

According to Rory Costello of the Society for American Baseball Research, Courtney began the 1948 season with Beaumont before being sent down to the Augusta Tigers of the Class A South Atlantic League in late April. Statistics of his time for Beaumont are not available, but in 64 games with Augusta, he batted .250 with 21 runs scored, 47 hits, 0 home runs, and 25 RBI. In July, Augusta sent him to another Yankee affiliate, the Norfolk Tars of the Class B Piedmont League. Courtney batted .229 with 22 hits and 1 home run in 29 games for the Tars.

Courtney split 1949 between two Class B teams, Norfolk and the Manchester Yankees of the New England League. In 58 games for Manchester, he batted .349 with 33 runs scored, 73 hits, 5 home runs, and 32 RBI. For Norfolk he played 48 games, batting .243 with 24 runs scored, 41 hits, 5 home runs, and 24 RBI. Over the 1949–50 offseason, Courtney played winter ball with the Guaymas Ostioneros of the Mexican Winter League, leading the league with a .371 average while also serving as the team's manager.

Back with Beaumont in 1950, Courtney was one of two players unanimously selected to the league's All-Star team. He made a positive impression on manager Rogers Hornsby, who would also manage him with the Ponce Leones in the Puerto Rican Winter League over the offseason. In 146 games, Courtney batted .263 with 137 hits, four home runs, and 79 RBI. In winter ball over the offseason, Courtney was the leading vote-getter for the All-Star Game.

Invited to spring training by the Yankees in 1951, Courtney made the team's Opening Day roster. However, shortly after the season started, he was sent down to the Kansas City Blues of the Class AAA American Association without having played. He served as Kansas City's starting catcher, playing well but drawing attention for conflicts during the year. Against the Milwaukee Brewers on June 25, he led with his elbow when sliding into second base, knocking out Johnny Logan's front teeth. Later in the season, when Kansas City played the St. Paul Saints, Courtney had a fight with Danny Ozark. He was suspended indefinitely and fined $100 after a September 3 game when he spat twice in the face of umpire John Fette and struck him with his baseball bat. In 105 games with Kansas City, Courtney batted .294 with 34 runs scored, 101 hits, eight home runs, and 35 RBI.

Major league career

MLB debut and trade to Browns (1951)
Despite his suspension, Courtney was called up by the Yankees in late September 1951. He made his major league debut on September 29, starting behind the plate for the second game of a doubleheader against the Boston Red Sox. He was hitless in two at bats, though he did reach base in the sixth inning when he was hit by a pitch from Mickey McDermott. New York won 3–1. Courtney did not play any other major league games in 1951. With his debut, Courtney likely became the first MLB catcher to wear eyeglasses during a game. He had been wearing them since either his time in the military or his time in the minor leagues because he was myopic, a condition that probably resulted from his time as a welder. Courtney would use tape to keep the frames on his head as the glasses sat underneath the catcher's mask. He wore ones with shatter-proof lenses, but due to the rough nature of his position, he had broken about a dozen pairs by 1958.

After the season, on November 23, Courtney was traded to the St. Louis Browns. Yankee general manager (GM) George Weiss disliked the catcher for his on-the-field incidents. Courtney's teammate Gil McDougald thought another reason for the trade was that Martin, now in the majors with the Yankees, could not stand Courtney.  Meanwhile, Hornsby, who had just been named St. Louis's manager, was excited to acquire one of his favorite players from Beaumont for his team. Four days after acquiring Courtney, the Browns traded Sherm Lollar to the White Sox, paving the way for Courtney to be their starting catcher in 1952. Baseball historian Frank Russo wrote, "In restrospect, Courtney's trade to St. Louis was the best thing that could have happened to his career."

Rookie season (1952)
Towards the end of 1952 spring training, Courtney tripped and fell during a foot race against sportswriter Milton Richman in a railway yard, and the broken glass and rocks in the yard resulted in a number of cuts. Despite the mishap, he played the next day's exhibition game covered in bandages, getting three hits against Early Wynn. Either teammate Duane Pillette or Browns announcer Buddy Blattner dubbed him "Scrap Iron", a nickname that would stick with him throughout his career and would well describe the tough, confrontational Courtney.