[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Songpa District

ommercial area.

Resource recycling

To ease school-related expenses for residents, Songpa District runs a recycling pool for used school uniforms and books. In this center, a school uniform costs only 4,000 won. In 2008, 1,541 uniforms were sold and 116 were exchanged among the total 2,043 donated.

Recycling centers in Geoyeo-dong and Jamsil-dong offer used products at reasonable prices compared to market prices. Products such as home appliances, clothes, and shoes are donated from local residents, before being repaired and refurbished for resale.

In the autumn, ginkgo leaves are gathered and sent to Nami Island, a tourist attraction in Gangwon Province, to be used as a sightseeing attraction for tourists. This recycling allows Songpa to save the annual disposal cost of 12 million won.

Education
Songpa District is implementing a variety of education policies for its residents. This is being done by expanding libraries, improving school environments, providing homestays for foreign students, promoting public English education, and supporting students from low-income families. These policies help produce students with great skills, provide a lifelong education for the residents, tap and develop individuals with talents, and strengthen the community.

Library expansion

Songpa District has four small libraries ("Small Library on Pine Tree Hill") close to residential areas. Due to this ease of access, they are also called "Close-to-Life Libraries".

Through the "School Library Open-to-The-Public" system, Songpa turned unused areas at schools into libraries open to residents. In doing so, the district can save money by using these otherwise-unused spaces, while the schools can supply more books supported by Songpa-gu office.

Unlike typical libraries, the "Children-Only Library" provides children with a playground where they can enjoy playing as well as reading. This library has more than 30,000 books and various facilities such as a child-care room, a theater, and a foreign book room.

School safety and improvements

In 37 school zones in Songpa District, CCTV cameras (90 inside and 17 outside of schools) are installed to prevent accidents and crimes. Safe routes to schools are ensured by paving access roads to schools with vivid colors, paving non-skid treads, painting traffic lanes, and building speed bumps, safety barriers, traffic signals, and traffic safety signs.

To provide a pleasant and safe environment in and around schools, Songpa supports the operational costs for school libraries, improvement of facilities for providing meals at schools, expansion of video and audio equipment, replacement of desks and chairs, and installation of artificial grass.

Childcare center

Songpa District opened "Children-Only Multiplex Facility," which has a theater, experiential education room, kid's book cafe and cafeteria. This facility is aimed at provoking children's imagination and helping them face challenges and also respect for their neighbors.

Songpa District runs 33 childcare centers, 6 of which specialize in infant care. 25 childcare centers operate from 7:30 pm to midnight especially for double-income families and single-parent families.

Student exchange

Through a student exchange program with sister cities, local and foreign students get an opportunity to experience each other's culture and life for a month. The program enables 100 students to visit the sister city every summer, staying at homestay houses. Students from the two regions better understand another's culture while introducing their own to others, gaining both cultural pride and a global perspective.

Improvement of public education

Songpa has established programs to support English education in its public primary schools. For example, in the "Culture Experience English Class", 260 students from 37 primary schools in Songpa go on a field trip using only English. In the "English Village Tour", sixth-grade students stay for 3 days in a specially built village named Pungnap Camp, using only English.

The district will be allocating native English-speaking tutors in every primary school by 2010 and specially supporting 19 schools (12 primary and 7 secondary schools) with an "After-School English Teacher" who would lead after-school, supplementary lessons and special activity classes.

Furthermore, Songpa District designated a school district covering 12,852 m2 area in Munjeong-dong development district in order to invite autonomous private high schools, high schools with special purposes, or schools for foreign students. Songpa also supports 120 students in two schools for special education for the gifted in mathematics and science.

Support for students from low-income families