[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Renen Schorr

e school began a two-year track for screenwriters, with the aim of creating a model for cooperation between screenwriters and directors, and with a specialization in writing for television. In 2004, the school inaugurated a four-year track for entrepreneur producers, the first of its kind in Israel.

Since the first crop of films in 1993, the school has become recognized as one of the leading film schools in the world, winning over 290 international prizes, among them 15 awards as the World's Best School, as well as recognition at over 160 international festivals, museums and film schools in 55 countries. The Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies at University of Cambridge has held a tribute to the school two years in a row, 2016 and 2017. The school's films have twice won the First Prize at the Cannes Film Festival (2008, 2016).

Under the direction of Renen Schorr, The Sam Spiegel International Film Lab was launched in December 2011, with the goal of fostering the development and production of full-length feature films by some of the world's most promising talents. The Sam Spiegel International Film Lab became the third film lab of its kind in the world, along with The Sundance Institute and The Torino Film Lab in Italy. The Academy Award-winning film Son of Saul, by László Nemes was developed at the Sam Spiegel International Film Lab in 2014.

In October 2014, as part of the 25th anniversary celebrations for the school, Schorr initiated a fifth film fund. The Sam Spiegel Alumni Fund for First Features was set up with the aim of supporting alumni as they make their first feature film.

Major films as director 
Schorr's 1985 short film, A Wedding in Jerusalem, told for the first time, the story of two of Israel's leading cultural figures; director Uri Zohar and singer Arik Einstein, on the occasion of the Orthodox wedding of their children. Unprecedented, A Wedding in Jerusalem was screened in cinemas across the country as the film before the Coen Brother's Blood Simple. The film was restored in 2016 and was the opening film at the Jerusalem Jewish Film Festival, at the Jerusalem Cinematheque.

Late Summer Blues (1987) is Schorr's most prominent film. It won the Silver Menorah award (Israel Academy Award) for best film, the best screenplay and best original score, as well as the prize for outstanding film in the Israel Film Festivals in New York and Los Angeles. The film opened the Jerusalem Film Festival in 1987 to rave reviews and became a commercial success  seen by 20,000 people, It was screened in 30 international festivals including, Montreal, Moscow, Toronto, Chicago, Los Angeles, Vienna, Dublin, Hong Kong. The film was released in the United States and Canada. Over the years, the movie has become a cultural icon.

After undergoing digital restoration, Late Summer Blues was released for screenings around Israel in honor of its 30th anniversary in 2016.

The Loners (HaBodedim) debuted in November 2009. Inspired by true events that took place in an Israeli military prison in 1997, the film explores the plight of two young Russian immigrant soldiers who are falsely accused of treason.

The Loners was nominated for 11 Ophir Prizes (Israeli Academy Awards), and was named winner of the Best Actor Award (Sasha Agronov) and Best Film Award at The South Festival. It was chosen Winner of the Best Film Award, Open Doek Festival in Belgium, and participated in such festivals such as the Pusan Film Festival, South Korea, Cape Town Film Festival, Seattle International Film Festival, Cottbus Film Festival Germany, Tirana International Film Festival Albania, London Jewish Film Festival, Toronto Jewish Film Festival, the Boston Jewish Film Festival, and IsraFest L.A. Despite all of this, the film did not gain commercial success.

As a screenwriter and script editor, Schorr wrote the screenplays for his own short films, served as a script consultant-as well as assistant director to both Uri Zohar, and to Judd Ne’eman on his film Paratroopers (1977). He edited the screenplay for the international award-winning film Broken Wings (2002) directed by Nir Bergman.

Background

Son of a physician, Prof. Sam Schorr, grandson of historian Dr. Alexander Schorr, descendant of Rabbi Joseph Bechor Schorr, a 12th-century Talmudic commentator from Orléans, France. Sixth generation Israeli on the side of his mother, Lea Heller, the daughter of Rabbi Avraham Zeide Heller of Safed.

Schorr, who grew up in Tel Aviv, was attracted to the theater from a young age. He played the role of Artful Dodger in Habima's national production of Oliver! and the Crown Prince in Giora Godik's troupe production of The King and I.

During his compulsory military service he served as a journalist for the IDF magazine BaMahaneh. In 1974 he was nominated for the Sokolov Journalism Prize (akin to the Pulitzer Prize) – for a series of articles about battles for the Golan Heights in the Yom Kippur War.