[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Government budget

izations to fund specific projects. Aid may come from private entities, other governments or international organizations.
 Sale of assets: Government may sell public assets such as land, buildings or equipment, in order to generate additional income. Such actions can be referred to as privatization.

Government expenditures 
Government expenditures refer to how money raised by the government is allocated in order to support a wide range of causes, meet the needs of its citizens and ensure economic growth through various programs. The expenditures can be divided by the Classification of Functions of Government (COFOG):

 General public services: Funding of services provided for the entire population. Some examples are spendings on executive and legislative organs of the government, fiscal actions, international economic aid and transfers.
 Defense: Funds allocated by the government for military and civil defense or foreign aid and research.
 Public order and safety: Services provided by the government, in order to ensure public safety. Unlike defense spending, it concerns only the protection of the public, such as police or fire-protection services.
 Economic affairs: Funds allocated into different industries of the economy, in order to ensure economic growth.
 Environmental protection: Governments may spend money on environmental protection, which includes initiatives to tackle climate change, improve the quality of the air and water, and conserve wildlife.
 Housing and community amenities: This type of expenditures refers to public goods such as residential development, water supply or street lighting.
 Health: These spendings refer to support of healthcare, including prevention and research.
 Recreation, culture and religion: Funds allocated to provide recreational goods and services and for cultural services. Additionally includes spending on religious activities.
 Education: Funds allocated in order to support the state’s education system. Includes expenses for all levels of education and other types of education.
 Social protection: Additional services offered to specific parts of population, in attempt to achieve equity and provide additional social security. These expenditures mostly consist of pensions and unemployment benefits.

Special consideration 
Government budgets have economic, political and technical basis. Unlike a pure economic budget, they are not entirely designed to allocate scarce resources for the best economic use. Government budgets also have a political basis wherein different interests push and pull in an attempt to obtain benefits and avoid burdens. The technical element is the forecast of the likely levels of revenues and expenses.

Classification 

Government budget can be of three types:
 Balanced budget: when government receipts are equal to the government expenditure. 
 Deficit budget: when government expenditure exceeds government receipts. A deficit can be of 3 types: revenue, fiscal and primary deficit.
 Surplus budget: when government receipts exceed expenditure.

A budget can be classified according to function or according to flexibility.

Approaches to government budgeting 
Line-item budgeting: In line-item budgeting (also known as the traditional budgeting), the government budget is divided into a list of items which the government plans to spend its money on. The expenditures often exceed the budget, but the majority of the spendings follows the budget plan. This approach was developed in the 1920s in order to prevent corruption.

Incrementalism: This approach focuses on making small changes from year to year. The government forms a budget for the new fiscal year by taking the budget from the previous fiscal year as a base and makes only small changes to it.

Top-down approach: The central financial authority (e.g. the Ministry of finance) sets boundaries to the budget and the government completes it. This approach originated in the 1990s as an attempt to control the increasing fiscal deficits.

Division of responsibilities
The relationships between the federal government and the states and localities are complex and are not well described by a simple look at expenditures. In some cases, the federal government pays for a program and gives broad discretion to the states as to how to carry out the mandate. In other cases, the federal government essentially dictates all the terms, and the states simply administer the program.

Government budget is a subject of importance for a variety of reasons:
 Planned approach to the government's activities
 Integrated approach to fiscal operations
 Affecting economic activities
 Instrument of economics policy
 Index of government's functioning
 Public accountability
 Allocation of resources
 GDP growth
 Elimination of poverty
 Reduce inequality in distribution of income
 Tax and non-tax receipt

See also
 List of countries by government budget

References

Further reading