[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Safety and Health in Mines Convention, 1995

many conventions that were relevant, there were not enough laws and conditions specifically laid out for miner's health and safety. Therefore, the Safety and Health in Mines Convention was created.

The Convention
The document consists of 24 articles contained within 5 parts, preceded by a preamble.

Preamble: Recognizes the dangerous conditions in the world's mines, and notes multiple conventions that contain relevant laws in context with miners health and safety. 
Part 1: Definitions. One article states a clear definition for the terms mine and employer.   
Part 2: Scope and Means of Application. Four articles lay out who is responsible for upholding the Convention in ratifying countries. 
Part 3: Preventative and Protective Measures At The Mine. This is divided into three sections, discussing the employers and workers duty to safety and health in mines. 
Section A: Responsibilities of Employers. Seven articles state what the employer must do to minimize hazards and what to do in the event of one. 
Section B: Rights And Duties of Workers and Their Representatives. Two articles discuss workers rights and their duty to comply with safety regulations.
Section C: Cooperation. One article states the responsibility that miners and their employers have to work together to achieve health and safety in mines. 
Part 4: Implementation. One article discusses the government's requirement to provide inspection services and institute penalties for non-complying mines. 
Part 5: Final Provisions. Eight articles describe the legality of ratifying the Convention, as well as how to denounce it.

Denouncing the Convention
In Article 19 of Part 5, the process of denouncing the Convention is laid out. Countries are allowed to denounce the Convention only under certain circumstances. The article states that a country may denounce the Convention if they wish, only ten years after the Convention first came into force (in 1998). Therefore, in 2008 it was possible for any ratifying countries to eliminate the Convention and subsequently drop their enforcement of its laws. This would result in a major loss of support for miner's health and safety, and even basic rights. As a result, no countries have yet to denounce the Convention.

United States ratification
The 42nd President of The United States, Bill Clinton, signed the Convention on January 5, 2001 with guidance from the Secretary of Labor, Alexis Herman. The United States was the 16th country to ratify the Convention. The United States ratification of the Convention showed its international support for miners who work in hazardous conditions.

United States mining regulation prior to the Convention

Since the Convention contains laws that are enforceable by the government, the United States would be held accountable for all of the laws contained within it. However, the United States already enforces many laws relevant to the Convention. The Department of Labor has a division applicable to miners. This division, The Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), is an agency that since 1977 has a mission to promote a safe and healthy workplace for miners by preventing injury and disease. The main method of doing this is by enforcing the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, known as the Mine Act. The Mine Act sets various standards intended to reduce fatal accidents and to minimize health hazards in an already dangerous occupation. Having the MSHA inspect every American mine accomplishes a part of the Mine Act. In addition, the MSHA handles all accident reporting and safety issues from miners. The disease black lung, which largely affects miners, is being worked on by the MSHA to have it diminished in the United States. Similarly, the laws outlined in the Convention are aimed at lowering the number of individuals with disease obtained from the mining workplace.

Overlap with The Mine Act
As a result of the already implemented MSHA and the Mine Act in the United States, it was not clear whether or not the Convention ratification would make a large impact in the various mining health and safety laws. A tripartite panel consisting of representatives covering American government, labor and business was held. They compared the laws from the Convention and the laws set in place by the Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. They concluded that the Convention could be signed by the president and ratified without the introduction of any new laws. This was due to the MSHA already enforcing all of the laws stated within the Convention.