[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kosher locust

Kosher locusts are varieties of locust deemed permissible for consumption under the laws of kashrut (Jewish dietary law). While the consumption of most insects is forbidden under the laws of kashrut, the rabbis of the Talmud identified eight kosher species of locust. However, the identity of those species is in dispute. The Jewish communities of Yemen and parts of northern Africa, until their emigration in the mid-20th century (and afterwards in Israel), ate locusts which according to their tradition are kosher. Some such species can be bought in Israel for consumption.

Laws
The Biblical command regarding kosher locusts goes as follows:
All winged swarming things that go upon all fours are a detestable thing unto you. Yet these may ye eat of all winged swarming things that go upon all fours, which have jointed legs above their feet, with which to leap upon the earth. These of them ye may eat: the arbeh after its kinds, and the salam after its kinds, and the hargol after its kinds, and the hagav after its kinds. But all winged swarming things, which have four feet, are a detestable thing unto you.

The identity of the four permitted types is difficult to ascertain. The common names used in the Bible refer only to color and broad morphological generalities shared by many Middle-Eastern species. Also, although it is often useful for identification, the geographic location of these locusts in the text is unclear. Also, using primarily color to identify insect species is a notoriously unreliable approach. Insects that come to adulthood will have slightly different colors based on season, diet, and prevailing climate.

The Talmud concluded that there are actually more than four: the phrase "the arbeh after its kinds" implies at least two kinds under the category of arbeh, and similarly for the other three types. The Talmud translates the four biblical names to the Aramaic of its day, and lists the additional kinds, as follows:

The Mishnah gives additional criteria:
Among the grasshoppers (hagavim): all that have four legs, and four wings, and [two additional] jumping legs, and its wings cover most of its body [are permitted]. Rabbi Yosi says: and its name must be hagav.

Unlike the Bible which permits certain named types of insect, this Mishnah lists physical characteristics which are met by many species of grasshoppers, and every species of locust. However, Rabbi Yosi's opinion is more restrictive: like the Bible, it requires a specific type name, not just physical characteristics.

Rabbi Yosi's restriction is accepted by many, but not all, rishonim. However, opinions differ on how it is to be understood. According to Tur, there must be a specific tradition that a particular insect is within the category of hagav. However, according to Maimonides, all that is needed is for the species to be referred to as a hagav or a translation of this term, such as "locust".

Tradition

Despite the general adherence of Yemenite Jews to the rulings of Maimonides, they did not follow Maimonides' lenient opinion that merely recognising a locust's features was sufficient to permit it. Rather, they ate only those locusts which they possessed a tradition of eating.

It is debated whether those who do not have a tradition can rely on the tradition of other communities to consume locusts. It is unnecessary to have a "personal tradition" in order to eat locusts one who travels to a place where the people do have a tradition may eat locusts there.

Among the authorities who forbid Ashkenazi Jews to eat locusts (based on the Yemenite tradition) are Rabbis Zalman Nechemia Goldberg, Avigdor Nebenzahl, and British Chief Rabbi Joseph Hertz. However, Rabbis Herschel Shachter, Chaim Pinchas Scheinberg, and Yosef Qafih permit it. Rabbi Mordechai Eliyahu permitted consumption to Mizrahi Jews but not Ashkenazi Jews.

Identification

Among Yemenite Jews "continuous tradition" exists for 3 species: desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria), migratory locust (Locusta migratoria), and Egyptian locust (Anacridium aegyptium).

The most common locust consumed in both Yemen and Morocco was the desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria), whose color ranges from yellowish-green to grey, to reddish in colour when it reaches maturity. According to Prof. Zohar Amar, this was the only locust species for which the traditional identification is unquestionable, while for other species the reliability of local traditions is more speculative. Both the desert locust, and the less common migratory locust, are classified as arbeh. So too, presumably, is the Moroccan locust (Dociostaurus maroccanus), which may have been traditionally eaten by North African Jews.