[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Armenians in the Middle East

Kuwait and the Persian Gulf Countries" headquartered in Kuwait, but also serving the Armenians in the Persian Gulf including Bahrain.

Cyprus

Armenians maintain a notable presence of about 3,500 people in Cyprus, mostly centered in Nicosia, but also with communities in Limassol and Larnaca.

Egypt

Armenians in Egypt are a community with a long history. They are a minority with their own language, schools, churches, and social institutions. The number of Armenians in Egypt is decreasing due to migrations to other countries and a return migration to Armenia. They number about 6000 concentrated in Cairo and Alexandria, the two largest Egyptian cities.

Iran

Armenians in Iran are one of the oldest and largest Armenian communities in the world. There are about 150,000-300,000 Armenian Iranians (Armenian: "Իրանահայ" translit. Iranahay or "Պարսկահայ" translit. Parskahay; հայ/hay meaning Armenian (member of Armenian people) in Armenian language). They mostly live in Tehran and Jolfa district. The Armenian-Iranians were very influential and active in the modernization of Iran during the 19th and 20th centuries. After the Iranian Revolution, many Armenians immigrated to Armenian diasporic communities in North America and western Europe. Today the Armenians are Iran's largest Christian religious minority.

Israel and Palestine 

The Armenian community has been resident in the Holy Land for two millennia. After the 1948 Arab–Israeli War and the establishment of the State of Israel, a number of Armenians residing in what had been the British Mandate of Palestine took up Israeli citizenship, whereas other Armenian residents of Old City of Jerusalem and the territory captured by Jordan took on the Jordanian nationality.

Armenians in Israel are Armenians with Israeli citizenship. There are around one thousand Israeli-Armenians with Israeli citizenship, residing mainly in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Jaffa, and Haifa. When taking into account the total number of Armenians in the areas controlled by the Palestinian Authority, the Armenian community in Israel and the West Bank added, the number of Armenian is estimated to be around 4,500.

Kuwait

The Armenian population reached its peak of 12,000. But after the Iraqi invasions, the numbers of the Armenians resident in Kuwait greatly diminished to just 500 as they left the country.

Lebanon

There have been Armenians in Lebanon (Armenian:  translit. libananahayer, Arabic: ) for centuries. While there has not been a census for a few decades, because the balance between Christians and Muslims is considered to be a volatile subject, it is estimated that there are approximately 150,000 Armenians in Lebanon, or around 4% of the population. Prior to the Lebanese Civil War, the number was higher, but the community lost a portion of its population to emigration.

Qatar

Ethnic Armenians in Qatar number between 400 and 500 and live mainly in the capital Doha.

Many Armenians originating from Lebanon, Syria and other Arab countries were attracted by the economic opportunities provided by Qatar, and they came to Qatar for jobs. Since the 1990s, economic migrants to Qatar have included people from Armenia and Armenians from Russia.

Sudan
There is an Armenian community in Sudan (estimated to be around a thousand Armenians). Most are concentrated in the Sudanese capital Khartoum.

Sudan's Armenian community has its own church, the St. Gregory the Illuminator Armenian Apostolic Church (in Armenian Sourp Krikor Lousavoritch). It is under the jurisdiction of the See of Holy Echmiadzin.

There is also an active Armenian club in operation.

Syria

Syria and the surrounding areas have often served as a refuge for Armenians who fled from wars and persecutions such as the Armenian genocide. It is estimated that there are no more than 100,000 Armenians in Syria, most of whom live in Aleppo. The village of Kasab is a majority Armenian village within Syria.

Turkey

Armenians in Turkey (; , the latter meaning Istanbul-Armenian) have an estimated population of 40,000 (1995) to 70,000. Most are concentrated around Istanbul. The Armenians support their own newspapers and schools. The majority belong to the Armenian Apostolic faith, with smaller numbers of Armenian Catholics and Armenian Evangelicals.

United Arab Emirates

Armenians in United Arab Emirates number around 3,000.

The Armenians live mainly in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.

Many Armenians originating from Lebanon, Syria and other Arab countries were attracted by the economic opportunities provided by the UAE, and they came to the UAE for jobs. Although there are no clear statistics and their numbers vary, over time their number has increased to around 3,000.

Recently, there are also economic migrants coming from Armenia and Armenians from Russia.

See also
 History of the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire

References

Armenian diaspora in Africa
Armenian diaspora in Asia
 
Christian groups in the Middle East
Ethnic groups in the Middle East