[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Religious affairs specialist

s support to Soldiers and Families across the full spectrum of military operations".

On 20 March 2015, the Office of the Chief of Chaplains (OCCH) of the United States Army approved the naming convention of 56M MOS from chaplain assistant to religious affairs specialist.

Roles and responsibilities

Religious affairs specialist 
 The religious affairs specialist serves as the enlisted subject matter expert and, in coordination with the chaplain, executes the commander’s religious support operations and conducts soldier crisis management.
 Religious affairs specialists can support additional duties that contribute to the welfare of the command; however, commanders must consult with their assigned chaplain before assigning additional duties.
 Religious affairs specialists will not support unit additional duties that impede the ability of the team or section to perform the commander’s religious support operations, such as Suicide Prevention Program Manager, Casualty Assistance Officer or Master Resiliency Trainer.
 Religious affairs specialists will not be required to reveal confidential communications, nor will they serve in any capacity that may compel them to disclose such information, including such duties as UVA or SARC.
 Religious affairs specialists will support both the unit and garrison Command Master Religious Program (CMRP) and be integrated into chapel activities at their home station or deployment location.
 Religious affairs specialists will participate in UMT and unit training and become “expert” in their MOS, Warrior tasks and battle drills.
 Religious affairs specialists directly support the religious support operations and are supervised, counseled and rated by a supervisory chaplain or senior religious affairs NCO. Religious affairs specialists receive their duty schedule and task list from the appropriate technical religious affairs NCO and supervisory chain in support of mission requirements. The technical supervisory and rating chains determine the accountability reporting process based on local procedures.
 Religious affairs specialists will not accept fees for performing any functions that are part of their official duties.

Religious affairs non-commissioned officer 
 Advise commanders and command sergeants major on all matters pertaining to religious affairs specialist (56M) training, manning, and growth and development of the Soldiers career track and lifelong learning cycle.
 Coordinate and recommend UMT policy for the command.
 Conduct UMT staff assistance visits and organization inspections of UMT activities, training, facilities, perform- ance, and professional development and growth.
 Provide staff guidance and training in leadership, military acculturation, mobilization, contingency team building, administration, personnel management, and CTOF procedures.
 Plan, resource, supervise, conduct, and evaluate staff training for religious affairs specialists.
 Lead or participate in unit training and participate in command ceremonies, as required.
 Monitor and recommend religious affairs specialist personnel assignments and utilization to the command.
 Facilitate the CMRP through effective coordination and collaboration with other senior NCOs of the command.
 Review the 56M portion of force structure documents (The Army Authorization Document System and the Personnel Manning Authorization Document).
 Assist Soldiers in sustaining and developing Army values, moral leadership, and conflict resolution skills. 
 See DA Pam 611–21 for additional senior 56M (SGT through SGM) responsibilities.

External links 
 Career and Job Opportunities - Religious Affairs Specialist.
 Army Chaplain Corps Religious Affairs Specialist Overview. 
 U.S. Army Chaplain Center and School.

References 

United States military chaplaincy
United States Army job titles