[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Energoatom

ian services.

Company's investment projects 
Investment projects implemented by "Energoatom" intend to guarantee the safe and reliable operation of its NPPs, prolong the term of power units' operation and create the enabling environment for the energy independence of Ukraine. The main projects are:

 Carrying out preparatory work for the construction start of the KhNPP power units No. 5 and No. 6.
 Implementation of the construction project of new power units with AP1000 design (Westinghouse) at existing and perspective sites.
 Establishing the production of fuel assemblies with Westinghouse design in Ukraine.
 Start of operation of the CRSNF and SNF acceptance from three Ukrainian NPPs.
 Commission and connection of the Tashlyk Pumped-Storage Power Plant hydropower unit No. 3
 Commissioning of spray pools No. 3, 4, 5 at the SUNPP.
 Electricity export to the EU countries.
 Research on the feasibility of SMR technology deployment in Ukraine.

Military actions at Ukrainian NPPs

Zaporizhzhia NPP occupation 
On 4 March 2022, the Zaporizhzhia NPP came under temporary occupation. The armed seizure of the plant by the Russian military resulted in shelling that damaged one of the ZNNP Training Center buildings, the reactor building, the block transformer, as well as household premises, some buildings, structures and equipment. An immediate threat occurred to the lives of plant personnel, along with a threat of nuclear and radiation hazards and an accident. The "Zaporizhska" overhead line and the "Southern Donbaska" overhead line bore damage as well.

After the occupation of the ZNPP more than 500 troops of the Russian military force and 50 units of military equipment were located at the plant's site.

The Russian military deployed at least 14 military trucks with weapons, ammunition loads explosives in the engine hall of the ZNPP power unit No. 1 in the vicinity to the nuclear reactor blocking access of firefighting equipment and vehicles in case of fire.

Right after the occupation, the Russian enterprises "Rosatom" and "Rosenergoatom" sent a group of their employees to the ZNPP site. The "Rosenergoatom" personnel rotated three times since that. On June 2, 2022, a team of 10 Rosenergoatom employees headed by the chief engineer of the Kalininska NPP arrived at the Zaporizhzhya NPP.

In August–September 2022, the Russian troops constantly shelled the ZNPP causing  substantial damage to the equipment, buildings, structures, pipelines, installations of the ZNPP, which led to the emergence of nuclear and radiation hazards and a high threat of nuclear accident due to damage to power units, chemical blocks and other equipment and buildings that ensure the operation of the NPP.

On 5 August 2022, three shelling attacks occurred at the plant's site close to one of the power units. A hit appeared between the Training Center and the 750 open switchyard damaging the high-voltage line 150 kV ZNPP – ZaTPS that led to the power outage of the auxiliary transformers No. 1, 2 and the HVL 330 kV ZNPP – ZaTPS, and decreased total capacity of the ZNPP to 1000 MWe.

The electric substation "Luch" bore substantial damages in a consequence of the shelling of the town of Energodar: 6 out of 7 microdistrics remained without electricity. The water intake station ceased working and the town lost its water supply as well.

On 6 August 2022, the Russian military forces shelled the ZNPP and its satellite-town Energodar and hit in the vicinity of the dry spent nuclear fuel storage of the plant. Three radiation monitoring sensors around the ZNPP DSFSF were damaged.

On 8 August 2022, the Russian military forces continued to shell the town hitting residential buildings.

On 11 August 2022, the occupiers shelled the fire station that was aimed for the plant's needs in case of emergency. 

On 13 August 2022 the damage occurred at the open switchyard 750 kW.

On 20 August 2022, in a consequence of the shelling, windows in one of the transitional galleries were shattered.

On 25 August 2022 due to the fires at the Zaporizhzhia TPS ash damps located in the vicinity of the ZNPP, the fourth power line connecting the ZNPP with the Ukrainian power grid – overhead line 750 kW ZNPP – "Dniprovska" - went offline twice. The previous shelling had damaged three other lines. As a result, two operating power units of the plant were disconnected from the grid. The actions of the Russian military led to the complete disconnection of the ZNPP from the power grid for the first time in the plant's history.

On 21 September 2022 at 01:13 am another shelling damaged the connection equipment of unit No. 6 with the plant's open switchyard. The attack caused the disconnection of unit transformer and house load transformers. The loss of power actuated two emergency diesel generators of the safety systems to ensure cooling of the nuclear fuel from pumps.