[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Special Action Force

l.
 October - November 2020 New Bilibid Prison riots - The SAF, together with the Philippine SWAT and the Bureau of Corrections, were instrumental in quelling a prison riot ignited by the infamous Sigue Sigue Sputnik gang.

Structure
As of 2021, the SAF's command structure consists of the following:

 Headquarters
 Force Support Battalion
 Rapid Deployment Battalion
 Twelve Special Action Force Battalions: 1SAB, 2SAB, 3SAB, 4SAB, 5SAB, 6SAB, 7SAB, 9SAB, 10SAB, 11SAB, 12SAB, 14SAB
 Training Branch

Training 
Prior to recruitment, prospective SAF candidates must be recruited into the PNP with the rank of Police Officer 1 (PO1), now Patrolman as of 2022. This would be followed by a six-month basic public safety course at the National Police Training Institute with field training done in the streets of the Philippines. The latter requirement was dropped as of 2018 because of concerns that new officers having field training would be exposed to bad and corrupt practices.

SAF candidates then need to attend the SAF Commando Course (or equivalent training such as Scout Ranger Course, Force Reconnaissance Course, Special Forces Operations Course) to be allowed to wear the SAF Beret. The course includes modules in internal security operations, waterborne rescue, police intervention, barangay module and operational testing, followed by a field training exercise.

After completing the commando course, SAF operators are allowed to take specialized training such as explosives and ordnance disposal (EOD), Basic Airborne Course (BAC), Urban Counter Revolutionary Warfare Course (SURESHOCK), K-9 Training Course, Sniper Course, SCUBA-BUSROC (Basic Underwater Search and Rescue Operations Course), the maritime tactical operation course and the SAF Seaborne Warfare Course (SSWC). For MTOC, SAF operators must have SURESHOCK and Airborne qualifications before being considered.

Training occurs at the unit's headquarters in Cuartel de Santo Domingo, Santa Rosa, Laguna.

The SAF has conducted cross training with the 1st Special Forces Group. Training was also provided from the Hostage Rescue Team (HRT), Critical Incident Response Group (CIRG), RAID and Yamam.

Functions
As designated by the Philippine National Police, the missions of the Special Action Force are the following:

 To develop, organise and train organic personnel in the furtherance of the assigned mission.
 To conduct Counter-Terrorist operation in urban and rural areas.
 To conduct commando type unconventional warfare (CUW) against lawless elements over extended periods of time with minimal direction and control.
 To conduct search and rescue operations anywhere in the country during calamities and catastrophes.
 To conduct civil disturbance management (CDM) operations and address the requirements of stability and security operations in times of civil disobedience on a national scale.
 To operate as a rapid deployment force ready and capable to strike anytime and anywhere in the country in support of other units and other agencies as higher headquarters may direct.
 To perform other tasks as the Chief PNP may direct.
 To maintain a reasonable degree of law and order in the national highways and major thoroughfares

Equipment

Pistols

Submachine guns

Shotguns

Rifles and carbines

Designated marksman and sniper rifles

Machine guns

Grenade launchers and assault weapons

Mortars

Armored vehicles

Commanders
The list are the directors who had commanded the SAF.

References

External links
 Philippine National Police Special Action Force (SAF) official website (Current Site)
 Philippine National Police Special Action Force (SAF) official website (Last Archive on December 20, 2021)
 Philippine National Police Special Action Force (SAF) official website (Last Archive on July 16, 2011)

Philippine National Police
Special forces of the Philippines
Non-military counterterrorist organizations
Non-military counterinsurgency organizations