[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Çankaya Mansion

aping. Besides the bronze gate, the wall coverings from andesite stone and the landscaping, there is a 230 meters square main gate building and a 140 meters square military unit building and was renovated in conformance with the general architecture and environmental structure of the Çankaya Campus.

Administrative building 
The Administrative building, for which Mustafa Aytöre and Orhan Genç were the project architects, is composed of two stories and a basement. One section is allocated for use to the Preservation Directorate and one section is allocated for use to the Administrative and Financial Affairs Chairmanship. It was built in 1985 on an area of 3,546 meters square.

Service building 
During the term of Kenan Evren, the seventh President, it was evaluated that due to the fact that the Çankaya Mansion was inadequate for use, both as a service building and as a residence, it was decided to have a new service building constructed. The building, for which the foundation was laid in 1983, was completed in seven years and started to be used on 29 October 1993. The project, which was prepared by architects Mustafa Aytöre and Orhan Genç, is used as a workplace of the units of the Presidency and the New Service Building has meeting and reception rooms and the official office and study of the President.

Social facilities and health centre 
The social facilities are composed of a shooting polygon, a sports hall and cafeteria and has a construction area of approximately 2,000 meters square. The construction of the facility, which is composed of three stories, started on 19 June 1995 and was completed on 20 December 1996. The shooting polygon was organized with the objective of training the bodyguard personnel of the Presidency and the sports hall and cafeteria were organized to give services to all of the personnel. The health centre, with the repairs and additions made in 1996 and 1999, was transformed into a contemporary health centre that can provide services with a dentist, family physician, pediatrician, a sufficient number of nurses and a laboratory for the personnel on duty at the Presidential General Secretariat.

Other facilities

Press conference and reception halls 
Due to the fact that the reception hall at the New Service Building was inadequate and that there was no press conference hall in the aforementioned building, a project was implemented on 21 May 1997 that would meet this need. A reception hall and foyer, which has different functions, has an area of 2,650 meters square together with additions and a press conference hall, which has a total area of 1,250 meters square together with the other sections, were constructed. The reception hall was opened for use on 29 October 1998 and the press conference hall was opened on 29 October 1999. The Press Conference Hall, which was designed by being connected to the New Service Building, was built underground in order not to spoil the structure of the tree grove within the Campus.

General Secretariat and State Supervisory Board 
The old service building within the Çankaya Campus was torn down and in its place, a new building was constructed, which was designed by taking into consideration the needs of the New General Secretariat and the State Supervisory Board, which are composed of six blocks connected to each other.

Greenhouse, Parks and Gardens Directorate 
When the old greenhouse became inadequate, a new and contemporary greenhouse project was prepared and the construction started in 1998. The greenhouse and the Parks and Gardens Directorate building, which is composed of two stories on a total area of 1,590 meters square, was completed in 1999 and started services.

Presidents at the mansion 
Many events have transpired at the Çankaya Mansion which makes it one of the most significant places in Turkish history. All presidents have resided at the Çankaya Mansion and have laid their own mark with their actions and commissioned renovations. Some presidents have chosen to look after the home with their own wages while others have chosen to expand the Campus at great cost. Even during coups the Çankaya Mansion played its part with generals Evren and Gürsel becoming president and Celal Bayar holding a pistol at coupists in an attempt to save himself.

References

External links
 The Presidency

Prime ministerial residences
Presidential palaces in Turkey
Official residences in Turkey
Buildings and structures in Ankara
Çankaya District
Buildings and structures completed in 1932
Clemens Holzmeister buildings and structures