[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# SQ-universal group

untable groups.

Given a countable group G, call an SQ-universal group H G-stable, if every non-trivial factor group of H contains a copy of G. Let  be the class of finitely presented SQ-universal groups that are G-stable for some G then Houcine's version of the HNN theorem that can be re-stated as:

 The free group on two generators is SQ-universal for .

However, there are uncountably many finitely generated groups, and a countable group can only have countably many finitely generated subgroups. It is easy to see from this that:

 No group can be SQ-universal in .

An infinite class  of groups is wrappable if given any groups  there exists a simple group S and a group  such that F and G can be embedded in S and S can be embedded in H. The it is easy to prove:

If  is a wrappable class of groups, G is an SQ-universal for  and  then either N is SQ-universal for  or G/N is SQ-universal for .

If  is a wrappable class of groups and H is of finite index in G then G is SQ-universal for the class  if and only if H is SQ-universal for .

The motivation for the definition of wrappable class comes from results such as the Boone-Higman theorem, which states that a countable group G has soluble word problem if and only if it can be embedded in a simple group S that can be embedded in a finitely presented group F.  Houcine has shown that the group F can be constructed so that it too has soluble word problem. This together with the fact that taking the direct product of two groups preserves solubility of the word problem shows that:

The class of all finitely presented groups with soluble word problem is wrappable.

Other examples of wrappable classes of groups are:
The class of finite groups.
The class of torsion free groups.
The class of countable torsion free groups.
The class of all groups of a given infinite cardinality.

The fact that a class  is wrappable does not imply that any groups are SQ-universal for . It is clear, for instance, that some sort of cardinality restriction for the members of  is required.

If we replace the phrase "isomorphic to a subgroup of a quotient of" with "isomorphic to a subgroup of" in the definition of "SQ-universal", we obtain the stronger concept of S-universal (respectively S-universal for/in ). The Higman Embedding Theorem can be used to prove that there is a finitely presented group that contains a copy of every finitely presented group. If  is the class of all finitely presented groups with soluble word problem, then it is known that there is no uniform algorithm to solve the word problem for groups in . It follows, although the proof is not a straightforward as one might expect, that no group in  can contain a copy of every group in . But it is clear that any SQ-universal group is a fortiori SQ-universal for . If we let  be the class of finitely presented groups, and F2 be the free group on two generators, we can sum this up as:
F2 is SQ-universal in  and .
There exists a group that is S-universal in .
No group is S-universal in .

The following questions are open (the second implies the first):
Is there a countable group that is not SQ-universal but is SQ-universal for ?
Is there a countable group that is not SQ-universal but is SQ-universal in ?

While it is quite difficult to prove that F2 is SQ-universal, the fact that it is SQ-universal for the class of finite groups follows easily from these two facts:
 Every symmetric group on a finite set can be generated by two elements
 Every finite group can be embedded inside a symmetric group—the natural one being the Cayley group, which is the symmetric group acting on this group as the finite set.

SQ-universality in other categories
If  is a category and  is a class of objects of , then the definition of SQ-universal for  clearly makes sense. If  is a concrete category, then the definition of SQ-universal in  also makes sense. As in the group theoretic case, we use the term SQ-universal for an object that is SQ-universal both for and in the class of countable objects of .

Many embedding theorems can be restated in terms of SQ-universality. Shirshov's Theorem that a Lie algebra of finite or countable dimension can be embedded into a 2-generator Lie algebra is equivalent to the statement that the 2-generator free Lie algebra is SQ-universal (in the category of Lie algebras). This can be proved by proving a version of the Higman, Neumann, Neumann theorem for Lie algebras. However versions of the HNN theorem can be proved for categories where there is no clear idea of a free object. For instance it can be proved that every separable topological group is isomorphic to a topological subgroup of a group having two topological generators (that is, having a dense 2-generator subgroup).