[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Malley

iro, Beirut, Tel Aviv and Baghdad. Malley's team covered events from Iran to Morocco, with a heavy focus on the Arab–Israeli conflict, the situation in Iraq, and Islamist movements throughout the region. Malley also covered developments in the United States that affect policy toward the Middle East.

Obama campaign and administration
According to Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign, Malley provided informal advice to the campaign in the past without having any formal role in the campaign. On May 9, 2008, the campaign severed ties with Malley when the British Times reported that Malley had been in discussions with the militant Palestinian group Hamas, listed by the U.S. State Department as a terrorist organization. In response, Malley told The Times he had been in regular contact with Hamas officials as part of his work with the International Crisis Group. "My job with the International Crisis Group is to meet with all sorts of savory and unsavory people and report on what they say. I've never denied whom I meet with; that's what I do", Malley told NBC News, adding that he informs the State Department about his meetings beforehand and briefs them afterward.

The New York Times reported on February 18, 2014, that Malley was joining the Obama administration to consult on Persian Gulf policy as senior director of the National Security Council. On April 6, 2015, Malley replaced Philip Gordon as Special Assistant to the President and White House Coordinator for the Middle East, North Africa and the Gulf Region.

Lead Iran deal negotiator

Malley was the lead U.S. negotiator on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, signed on July 14, 2015, which aimed to limit Iran's nuclear activities and ensure international inspections of its nuclear facilities in exchange for lifting economic sanctions. In describing the negotiating challenges, Malley later wrote in The Atlantic, "The real choice in 2015 was between achieving a deal that constrained the size of Iran’s nuclear program for many years and ensured intrusive inspections forever, or not getting one, meaning no restrictions at all coupled with much less verification.

Return to International Crisis Group
After Obama left office, Malley returned to the International Crisis Group, serving as the new Vice President for Policy. He is currently the President and CEO.

U.S. Special Envoy to Iran
On January 28, 2021, President Biden named Malley U.S. special envoy to Iran, where he was tasked with trying to ease diplomatic tensions with Iran and rein in its nuclear program by compliance to the original pact.

Forced leave as special envoy to Iran
In late April or early May 2023, Malley's security clearance was suspended. An investigation was launched into his possible mishandling of classified material. At the time, the State Department made misleading statements that Malley was only stepping back from some of his duties for personal reasons. The investigation was later referred to the FBI. Malley said that he did not know why his clearance was suspended and hopes it will be reinstated soon. Former US officials have stated that it is rare for a diplomat to have security clearances suspended over single or minor mistakes relating to classified material, indicating that a major incident may have led to the clearance suspension and FBI investigation. 

Despite the suspension of his security clearance, Malley continued doing State Department work, including providing media interviews. On June 29, 2023, Malley was placed on unpaid leave as special envoy to Iran after CNN reported on his security clearance suspension. Malley was replaced in his role by Abram Paley as acting Special Envoy for Iran. 

In August 2023, an Iranian state-run media outlet published a purported State Department memo from April 21, 2023, which stated that Malley’s security clearance was suspended over "serious security concerns" related to his "personal conduct," "handling of protected information" and "use of information technology." The memo's veracity was backed by a person familiar with the Malley investigation, according to Politico. Former State Department officials have also confirmed that the memo matches standard State Department style. 

The State Department did not immediately notify members of Congress of Malley's security clearance suspension. When Malley failed to appear for a  Senate briefing, the State Department claimed to Congress that he was on "extended personal leave". In response to the failure of the State Department to inform lawmakers of Malley's security clearance revocation, House Republicans introduced a bill to require Congressional notification in the event that top diplomats, such as special envoys, have their security clearances revoked.