[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Celebrant Foundation and Institute

across the life cycle. CF&I seeks to increase opportunities to affirm and celebrate milestones and transitions for people from all walks of life through the training, certification, and ongoing support of professionally certified celebrants, and by providing public education, outreach, and advocacy.

CF&I Celebrant Training, Education and certification
The Celebrant Foundation & Institute offers educational programs taught via live, real time, web-based classes. Individuals looking for a change in career either as an independent, full-time, or part-time job have taken courses at the Celebrant Foundation in the pursuit of starting a career as a celebrant. Celebrant students follow the CF&I interdisciplinary education program that focuses on the history and art of ceremony, ritual, and rites of passage. It recognises the riches in the various world religions and cultural traditions, public speaking, ceremony writing, presentation skills and business skills.  
The certificate courses are: Wedding Celebrancy, Funeral Celebrancy and Ceremonies of healing and transition across the Life-Cycle. 
The institute offers an advanced course: Master of Celebrancy. 
Celebrant graduate alumni become part of their local or regional Celebrant alumni chapter community which supports them and their practice.
 
Who Becomes a Celebrant:
As a retirement career, supplement career or change of career, the CF&I offers training to become a professional ritual maker and ceremony specialist called a: certified Life-Cycle Celebrant.  The Celebrant career attracts both women and men, mostly 40 years of age and older, who enjoy and are proficient at: writing, public speaking, business and are open to creating and officiating or presiding over ceremonies for people from all walks of life.  Many Celebrant graduates have backgrounds as:  teachers, health and wellness professionals, social workers/therapists and life coaches, end-of-life professionals (funerals directors, hospice and death doulas), wedding professionals, lawyers, ministers/clergy, librarians, business entrepreneurs and artists.

See also
 Celebrant (Australia) - the civil celebrant movement began in Australia in 1973 and there established its basic principles.
 Celebrancy - Description of the profession of celebrancy.
 Lionel Murphy - Australian statesman who established Civil Celebrant in law  and culture.
 Funeral celebrant - Description, history, ideals and principles of funeral celebrancy.
 Dally Messenger III - notable celebrant who progressed civil celebrancy in Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom the United States and elsewhere.
 Ceremony - an explanation of the components of ceremony and the skill set necessary to perform ceremonies (civil and religious).
Officiant - synonym for celebrant.
 Celebrant Foundation and Institute Foundation in the USA
Humanist celebrant - describes the diaspora of Humanist Society celebrants throughout the world with a heavy emphasis on the non-religious.
Marriage officiant - religious and civil marriage in various religions and countries.

References

External links 

Celebrant marks life's major turns
Celebrant Charlotte Eulette interviewed

Wedding
Charities based in New Jersey