[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Milan Lukić

s authority. The Association's head, Bakira Hasečić, who has described how she herself was raped at knifepoint by Lukić in a basement of the Višegrad police station, claimed rape victims were let down by the failure of the ICTY to charge either Milan Lukić or Sredoje Lukić with rape or sexual abuse.

The Vilina Vlas spa hotel on the outskirts of Višegrad was used as a rape camp while it was also the Lukićs' unit's command post. One woman stated that Lukić  raped her several times while she was one of a reported 200 women held in the Vilina Vlas spa hotel. This was after he had earlier raped her in her own home, slaughtered her 16-year-old son with a knife, and then raped her again in the garden. She believed only a handful of the women survived the camp as most were killed or took their own lives. She told Balkan Insight she saw one suicide herself, when a girl jumped from a second-floor room through a glass balcony. The Association of Women Victims of War believes that fewer than ten women prisoners survived.

International human rights organisations and refugees had reported on the atrocities in the town back in 1992. As survivors fled, reports of rape and sexual abuse of women led Amnesty International to publish an extensive report on rape in Bosnia and Herzegovina, mentioning Višegrad as a prime example, and a 1994 UN report on rape in Bosnia and Herzegovina specifically identified Vilina Vlas as one of the locations where the rapes occurred.

It was not until June 2008 that the first trial of one of the Višegrad rapists took place before the State Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Zeljko Lelek, charged with crimes against humanity including murders, deportation, forcible detention and rape committed jointly with the Beli Orlovi group, has since been found guilty of rape at Vilina Vlas and other crimes alongside Milan Lukić. Alexandra Stiglmayer, author of Mass Rape: The war against women in Bosnia and Herzegovina, gave all her material relating to rapes in Višegrad to an investigator from the ICTY who asked if she would be willing to testify about it in court but she was never asked to do so by the Tribunal. In 1996, The Guardian published extracts from the confession made by a Serb soldier, Mitar Obradović, alleging that Lukić  had raped many women in Višegrad and encouraged his troops to do the same.

The ICTY's initial joint indictment against Milan and Sredoje Lukić and Mitar Vasiljević stated that Vilina Vlas had been used to incarcerate prisoners who were tortured, beaten up and sexually abused, though none of the original 20 counts specifically mentioned rape. Witnesses at Vasiljević's subsequent separate trial spoke about the mass rapes that had occurred in Višegrad. Vasiljević told the Tribunal how he had heard that Milan Lukić raped, robbed and murdered many of his victims, including a number of girls Lukić raped after capturing the village of Mušići.

The trial judges who found Vasiljević guilty stated that they believed Vilina Vlas was under Lukić's command in 1992 and in an interview with Belgrade's Duga magazine in 1992, Lukić himself confirmed that he had headed a unit there. Bakira Hasečić challenged the Chief Prosecutor Carla del Ponte's assertion that the prosecution did not have evidence for such charges when it drew up the indictment as no witnesses would come forward, saying she and other women made statements to officials that were available to Hague investigators.

Del Ponte's special advisor and spokesperson Anton Nikiforov acknowledged there was information about rapes that had taken place in Višegrad but claimed tribunal prosecutors had been "unable to reach the witnesses" before the indictments were completed. Del Ponte suggested that the Tribunal might transfer the Lukićs' case to the War Crimes Chamber in Sarajevo and urged Association of Women Victims of War to work with state prosecutors to have the indictments changed there. The UN's "completion strategy" for the tribunal ruled out prosecutors bringing new charges or amending existing ones unless a case was transferred to local courts elsewhere.

On 12 June 2008, less than a month before the trial started, the Prosecution filed a motion for a new indictment, adding rape and sexual slavery to the charges. The proposed new indictment charged the cousins with involvement, individually or together with others, in planning and/or the abetting of rape, keeping in slavery and torture of persons in detention centres and other locations in Višegrad town and its vicinity. One day before the start of the trial, the Trial Chamber rejected the Prosecution's submission, ruling that such an amendment to the indictment would prejudice the right of the accused to have enough time to mount a defence.

Prison life
Lukić had been held at The Hague since 21 February 2006. In February 2014, Lukić was transferred to Tartu Vangla prison in Estonia where he is currently serving his sentence.