[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# July 1976

.  Two days before his arrest, Radio Conakry had announced that 19 people had been rounded up after the discovery of a plot to assassinate Toure.
Born: Elsa Pataky (stage name for Elsa Lafuente Medianu), Spanish stage, film and TV actress known for The Fast and the Furious series of films; in Madrid

July 19, 1976 (Monday)
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) announced that 17 African nations were withdrawing their teams from the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, and that 465 athletes had either vacated the Olympic Village quarters or were making final plans to do so.  The boycott, made two days after the Olympic games had gotten underway, came after the IOC refused to expel the New Zealand Olympic team as a response to New Zealand's hosting of a tour of the Springboks rugby league team from South Africa.
Saint Pierre and Miquelon, located off of the coast of Canada's province of Newfoundland and Labrador, became an overseas department of France.
The Soviet Union placed a super-carrier ship in the Mediterranean Sea for the first time as the Kiev, its largest naval vessel up to that time, passed through the straits of Bosporus and the Dardanelles.
Sagarmatha National Park was created in Nepal.
Fencer Boris Onischenko of the Soviet Union Olympic team, a silver medalist in the 1972 Olympic modern pentathlon, was disqualified after it was discovered that he was using an electronic device within his épée sword to register a point whether the sword struck his opponent or not. The cheating was discovered when his opponent, Jeremy Fox of Great Britain, leaped out of the way of Onischenko's thrust and a score was registered anyway.
Born: 
Benedict Cumberbatch, English stage, TV and film actor and Emmy Award winner; in Hammersmith, London
Eric Prydz, Swedish record composer; in Täby

July 20, 1976 (Tuesday)

The Viking 1 lander successfully landed on Mars at 11:53:06 UTC (7:53 a.m. Eastern time), touching down at Chryse Planitia after a descent from the Viking orbiter more than three hours earlier.  The lander, the first U.S. craft to land on Mars, transmitted the first-ever pictures from the surface.  Chemical analysis of the Martian atmosphere showed "a small component of nitrogen".
U.S. baseball player Hank Aaron, holder of the record for most career home runs in Major League Baseball since breaking the record of Babe Ruth in 1974, hit the 755th and final home run of his career, playing for the Milwaukee Brewers at home against the California Angels. He retired at the end of the 1976 season. Aaron's MLB record of 755 would stand for 31 years until broken on August 7, 2007 by Barry Bonds of the San Francisco Giants.
American criminal Gary Gilmore was arrested after murdering two Brigham Young University students in separate incidents in Utah.  He would later become the first person in the United States to be executed after the restoration of the death penalty.  The day before his arrest, Gilmore had killed Max Jensen, a 25-year-old night attendant at a Sinclair gas station, during a robbery in Orem, Utah.  He followed hours later with the killing of Bennie Bushnell, a night manager at the City Central Motel in Provo.  In both cases, the victims had cooperated with Gilmore's instructions to lie face down, and he shot both in the back of the head anyway.  Gilmore was caught after he accidentally shot himself in the hand while attempting to dispose of the murder weapon, a .22-caliber pistol.  Convicted of Jensen's murder on October 7 and given the death sentence the same day, Gilmore refused to appeal the verdict or the sentence and would be executed by firing squad on January 17, 1977, less than six months after the murders, becoming the first person to be legally executed in the United States since the restoration of the death penalty.
The United States withdrew its last combat troops from Thailand and Indochina after 26 years.  U.S. Air Force Master Sergeant George Leroy Davis, designated by the U.S. Air Force to be the last combat soldier, boarded a Cathay Pacific airliner with his wife and two children, and departed at 10:30 in the morning.  About 250 American military advisers remained as part of military aid agreement between the U.S. and Thailand.  At the height of the American presence in Thailand, 48,000 troops were stationed in 93 installations around the Asian kingdom.