[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# National Crime Records Bureau

each page (i.e. over 12000 prints in total). After examination of the document, CFPB experts were able to establish that all the prints were given by 8 to 10 fingers only indicating fraudulent payment of approximately 2.25 crores. Approximately 40% finger impressions were faint, blurred or partial.

7. A total of fifty five (55) fingerprint slips for establishing identity were received in FACTS (CFPB-AFIS) from Uttarakhand State police Department. The slips carried fingerprints of Unidentified Dead Bodies (UDBs). Majority of fingerprints were faint, smudged, or partial. All the slips required additional computer based enhancement efforts to make them decipherable for comparison by the system. Out of the 55 slips, one unidentified dead body fingerprint slip matched with the slip of one Jamil S/o. Mustaq of P.S. Kithore, Meerut, U.P. The successful input of UDB Fingerprint slip (CFPB PIN No. 90440105) followed by trace with slip bearing PIN 90423149, revealed the antecedents of the subjected person - Jamil was convicted in pursuance of criminal case registered vide FIR No. 60 dated 19-03-2013 U/S 363 IPC of ODRS police station.

Training branch 

Each year Training branch conducts on an average 20-25 training programmes for Indian Police Officers of the duration of 1 week on the subjects like CCTNS, Advanced Fingerprint Science, Network & e-Security etc. NCRB also conducts the courses on "Training of Trainers" for development of training resource persons in subjects like Basic Crime Analysis, Windows 2000 & SQL Server, Network & e-Security, Linux and CCTNS.

NCRB also conducts two courses of 12 weeks duration and four courses of 8 weeks duration for Foreign Police Officers under Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) and Special Commonwealth African Assistance Programme (SCAAP) of Ministry of External Affairs. Different programmes viz., Cyber Crime & Network Security, Advanced Fingerprint Science, IT in Law Enforcement, Advanced Course on IT in Law Enforcement and Advanced Fingerprint Science and IT are conducted for these officers. Every year, on an average more than 125 officers from 20 to 25 countries from Latin America, Africa, South Asia and Middle East attend these programmes. Special Training Programmes have been conducted for Afghanistan & Mongolian Police Officers on Fingerprint Science.

Regional Police Computer Training Centre (RPCTC) 
Four RPCTCs in Hyderabad, Gandhi Nagar, Lucknow and Kolkata conduct similar courses for lower functionaries of Indian Police. NCRB provides funds to these centres for faculty, stationery, training material and infrastructure including computer hardware, software etc.

Training

Revelations from Crime Statistics 
The NCRB data 2020 brought out glaring statistics that pointed out married men committed more suicide due to family problems. The statistics went further to point out that one man commits suicide every 5 minutes. 

The Crime Records also pointed out a very pertinent fact that over 74% of rape cases and 80% dowry cases filed in India end in acquittal which suggest there is a growing trend of false cases being filed by women against men to meet their needs and use the Gender Biased Laws to their favor. Interpreting the statistics and also drawing inference from the own lessons, Delhi High Court pointed out that there is an alarming rise in false rape cases in India and this must be checked at the earliest.

News Letter 
A quarterly publication named NCRB New Letter is also compiled and published by the Training Branch and circulated to the police fraternity to make them aware about NCRB achievements/activities.

See also

 Crime reporting and tracking
 Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD)
 Call 112
 Criminal record
 Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS)
 Law enforcement in India
 Sex offender registry (SOR)
 United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)
 Other police related
 Indian Police Foundation and Institute
 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy

References

External links
 Prison Statistics India 2015
 NCRB website
 Crime in India 2012 Statistics

Federal law enforcement agencies of India
New Delhi