[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Elizabeth Hesselblad

d the care of the sick. To this end she was joined by three young women from England, whom she received on 9 November 1911, with which the new congregation was established. Their particular mission was to pray and work, especially for the conversion of the Scandinavian people to the Catholic Church.

Hesselblad returned to her homeland of Sweden in 1923, where she was able to establish a community in Djursholm, while she worked nursing the sick poor. The new congregation was established in England in 1931 after receiving the approval of the Holy See. That same year, Hesselblad obtained the House of Saint Bridget in Rome for her new congregation. A foundation was made in India in 1937 which drew many new members. Her order received canonical approval on 7 July 1940.

Hesselblad became known as "the second Bridget". During World War II – and after – she performed many charitable works on the behalf of the poor and those that suffered due to racial laws and also promoted a movement for peace that involved Christians and non-Christians. The war also saw her save the lives of Jews who otherwise would have been murdered in the Holocaust had it not been for her direct intervention.

Her apostolic zeal contributed to the conversion of the Baptist minister Piero Chuminelli – author of a biographical account of Bridget of Sweden – and she also had close ties to the former Chief Rabbi of Rome Israel Zolli (Eugenio) who converted to the faith in 1946.

Death
Hesselblad's health declined around the time when officials prepared the canonical visit of her order. On 23 April 1957 she gave her blessing to the sisters and held her raised hands in a solemn gesture in which she murmured: "Go to Heaven with hands full of love and virtues". She received the sacraments thereafter and died in Rome on 24 April 1957 (Easter Wednesday) in the first hours of the morning.

Sainthood

Process and beatification
The sainthood process commenced in Rome in 1987 and concluded its work in 1990. Pope John Paul II proclaimed Elisabeth Hasselblad to be a Venerable Servant of God on 26 March 1999 after he recognised that she had lived a model Christian life of heroic virtue. The miracle requested for her beatification was investigated in 1996 and received ratification in Rome on 17 October 1998. The pope approved it at the beginning of 2000 allowing for her beatification on the following 9 April 2000.

Canonization
Pope Francis approved the second miracle attributed to her on 14 December 2015 which would allow for her future canonization; the date was decided at an ordinary consistory of cardinals on 15 March 2016 and was celebrated in Saint Peter's Square on 5 June 2016.

The miracle was investigated in the diocese of its origin in Cuba in February 2014 – the miracle in question occurred in the late 2000s – and was validated in Rome on 20 June 2014. A medical board approved the miracle in April 2015.

Distinctions
 : Righteous Among the Nations by Yad Vashem (2004), due to her work in assisting Jews during World War II
 : Order pro merito Melitensi

See also
Rescue of Jews by Catholics during the Holocaust

Literature
 Agneta af Jochnick Östborn: For Sweden, I have given God my life! Elisabeth Hesselblads calling and Birgittine mission in Sweden, Artos, Skellefteå 1999.
 Called to Holiness: Blessed Elizabeth Hasselblad, Catholica, Vejbystrand 2000.
 Lars Cavallin: "Mother Mary Elisabeth Hesselblad OSsS from Fåglavik – pioneer of modern monastic life in Sweden" in Johnny Hagberg (editor): Monasteries and Monastic Life in the Medieval Diocese of Skara, Skara County Historical Society 2007.
 Marguerite Tjäder: Mutter Elisabeth – Die neue Blüte des Ordens saints Birgitta . EOS-Verlag, Sankt Ottilien 2002, .
 J. Berdonces, Hesselblad, Maria Elisabeth, in Dictionary of the institutes of perfection, vol. IV, Pauline Editions, Milan, 1977, coll. From 1530 to 1531.

References

Further reading

External links
Bridgettine Sisters , Maryvale Institute. Accessed 19 December 2015.
Elizabeth Hesselblad – her activity to save Jews' lives during the Holocaust, at Yad Vashem website
Hagiography Circle
Saints SQPN

1870 births
1957 deaths
People from Fåglavik
Swedish nurses
Swedish emigrants to the United States
Catholic saints who converted from Protestantism
Converts to Roman Catholicism from Lutheranism
Bridgettine Religious Sisters
Bridgettine saints
20th-century Swedish nuns
Founders of Catholic religious communities
Swedish Roman Catholic saints
Beatifications by Pope John Paul II
Swedish Righteous Among the Nations
Catholic Righteous Among the Nations
20th-century venerated Christians
Canonizations by Pope Francis
Venerated Catholics by Pope John Paul II