[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Nicholas Maxwell

Nicholas Maxwell (born 3 July 1937) is a British philosopher.

Maxwell taught philosophy of science at University College London, where he is now Emeritus Reader.  In 2003 he founded Friends of Wisdom. He has published fifteen books. He has published over eighty papers in scientific and philosophical journals on problems that range from consciousness, free will, value, and art  to the rationality of science, simplicity, scientific realism, explanation, time and quantum theory.

Philosophical contribution 
Maxwell's work has been devoted to tackling two fundamental interlinked problems:-
Problem 1: How can we understand our human world, embedded as it is within the physical universe, in such a way that justice is done both to the richness, meaning and value of human life on the one hand, and to what modern science tells us about the physical universe on the other hand? 
Problem 2: What ought to be the overall aims and methods of science, and of academic inquiry more generally, granted that the basic task is to help humanity achieve what is of value – a more civilised world – by cooperatively rational means (it being assumed that knowledge and understanding can be of value in themselves and form a part of civilised life)?

In connection with Problem 1, Maxwell has put forward a version of the double-aspect theory, according to which experiential and physical features of things both exist.

In connection with Problem 2, Maxwell argues that the problematic aims of science, and of academic inquiry more generally, need much more honest and critical attention than they have received so far.

Criticism
Maxwell's books have been widely reviewed.  His work is discussed by twelve scholars in Science and the Pursuit of Wisdom, edited by Leemon McHenry.  
David Miller and Maxwell had a short exchange about Aim Oriented Empiricism, which was the central thesis of Maxwell's The Comprehensibility of The Universe.

Publications 
1976, What’s Wrong With Science?, Bran's Head Books, Hayes, Middlesex.
1984, From Knowledge to Wisdom: A Revolution in the Aims and Methods of Science, Basil Blackwell, Oxford.
1998, The Comprehensibility of the Universe: A New Conception of Science, Oxford University Press, Oxford.
2001, The Human World in the Physical Universe: Consciousness, Free Will and Evolution, Rowman and Littlefield, Lanham.
2004, Is Science Neurotic?, Imperial College Press, London.
2007, From Knowledge to Wisdom: A Revolution for Science and the Humanities, 2nd edition, revised and enlarged, Pentire Press, London.
2008, ed., with R. Barnett, Wisdom in the University, Routledge, London.
2009, What's Wrong With Science?, 2nd edition, revised with new preface, Pentire Press, London.
2009, L. McHenry, ed., Science and the Pursuit of Wisdom: Studies in the Philosophy of Nicholas Maxwell, Ontos Verlag, Frankfurt.
2010, Cutting God in Half – And Putting the Pieces Together Again: A New Approach to Philosophy, Pentire Press, London.
2014, How Universities Can Help Create a Wiser World: The Urgent Need for an Academic Revolution, Imprint Academic, Exeter.
2014, Global Philosophy: What Philosophy Ought to Be, Imprint Academic, Exeter.
2016, Two Great Problems of Learning: Science and Civilization, Rounded Globe. Free online.
2017, In Praise of Natural Philosophy: A Revolution for Thought and Life McGill-Queen's University Press, Montreal
2017, Understanding Scientific Progress: Aim-Oriented Empiricism, Paragon House, St. Paul, MN.
2017, Karl Popper, Science and Englightenment, UCL Press, London. [open access book, free to download]
2019, Science and Enlightenment: Two Great Problems of Learning, Springer, Cham, Switzerland.
2019, The Metaphysics of Science and Aim-Oriented Empiricism: A Revolution for Science and Philosophy, Springer, Cham, Switzerland.
2020, Our Fundamental Problem: A Revolutionary Approach to Philosophy, McGill-Queen's University Press, Canada.
2021, The World Crisis — And What to Do About It: A Revolution for Thought and Action, World Scientific, Singapore.

Notes

External links
 Nicholas Maxwell’s website
  The website of Friends of Wisdom
 Intellectual autobiography
 Outline of contributions to philosophy: How Can Life of Value Best Flourish in the Real World?
 Publications available online at UCL Discovery
 Publications available at PhilPapers
 Papers available at PhilSciArchive
 Reviews of Books by Nicholas Maxwell
 TEDxUCL talk: The Urgent Need to Bring About a Revolution in Academia
 Review in Nature of From Knowledge to Wisdom
 Videos and broadcasts by Nicholas Maxwell
 Details about Is Science Neurotic?
 Interview on Canadian Broadcasting Corporation

1937 births
Living people
British philosophers
Academics of University College London
Philosophers of science