[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Springwood railway station

mplex includes a type 3 second-class station building, built in 1884; with a signal box, completed in 1935; and a brick lavatory building (male toilet), completed in 1944. Other structures include a face brick island platform, completed in 1884 and 1902; and a pedestrian subway, completed in 1997–8.

Station building
External: Constructed (1884) of face brick with corrugated steel roof which extends on both sides to form an awning over both platforms. The Springwood station building is an early second class single storey island building in the Victorian Carpenter Gothic style. The extension at the east end of the building, breaking the symmetry, has a hipped roof behind the parapet. Two chimneys on the ridgeline of the main roof are rendered with wide rendered and moulded corbels. The existing chimney pots are not original. The walls of the original building are Flemish bond tuckpointed brickwork with sandstone capping to the parapets and sandstone quoins to the external corners and reveals to openings. An arch on the centre of the original parapets has a stone infill carved with "ERECTED 1884". Sandstone finials top the gables and bull's-eye vents in the gables are edged with sandstone. The east extension of the building is in stretcher bond brickwork but is finished with sandstone detailing matching the original construction. The brickwork has been painted. The building has three panelled doors with fanlights and dentilated transoms. Doors to the centre of the building are similar but have two panels. Windows are double hung and finished with sandstone label moulds. The original wide awning on the north side of the building is supported on timber stop chamfered columns with capitals and pattern carved on the centre of the columns. Cast iron brackets provide further embellishment to the columns. Awnings on the south side of the building are typical of the 1902 railway stations in the Blue Mountains with a wide low pitched roof supported on steel brackets supported on stone corbels. The ends of both awnings are finished with a timber boarded valance. A train mural by artist Vernon Treweeke is located on the eastern side of the main station building covering the privacy wall to the male toilet. Other murals by the same artist are located at Katoomba and Woodford Railway Stations.

Internal: The building appears to have maintained few of its original detailing and finishes due to the upgrade works of 1997–98. However, the original floor layout including a waiting room, ticket office, parcels office and signal box and ladies room are still present in addition to early double panelled timber framed windows and timber doors. Light fittings and carpet finish are relatively new. The 1902 extension to the southern side of the building is clearly apparent forming a corridor along the building. The 1935 signal box within the station building's envelope survives with its signage and no longer operates (lever frame and CTC panel removed). It is currently a storage room with exposed roof structure and painted brick walls.

Lavatory building
External: A simple gabled building (1944, 1998) on axis with the platform with a clearstory ventilated roof. The roof is of corrugated steel with exposed purlins to the gable ends and exposed rafters. The walls are Flemish bond tuckpointed brick work. Entry is at east end through an arched door behind a brick screen with the Mural on the outer side. Windows in the north wall have stone sills.

Internal: All toilet and light fittings date to 1998 upgrade works with painted brick walls and fibrocement ceiling panels.

Island platform
Springwood Railway Station has an island platform (1902) in a curved shape towards the east. The platform is brick faced with concrete deck and asphalt finish. A small square portion of grass has been inlayed into the platform surrounded by concrete west of the lavatories. A few potted plants are located on the north side of the platform under the station building awning, near the booking office and either side of the station level lift entrance. No garden beds are present. Entrance to the subway is located at the east end of the platform between the lift and station building. Period and modern light fittings and timber bench seating in addition to modern and early signage, aluminium palisade fencing between the station building and the lavatories and at both ends of the platform.