[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Neil Danns

s used off the bench and often out of position. He did not start a league match in 2016 until 9 April, well after Lennon had left the club, in a defeat to Derby County that confirmed Bolton's relegation. Danns was released when his contract expired, having made 81 appearances in his permanent spell.

Bury and loan
After a trial, Danns signed a two–year contract with League One club Bury on 21 July 2016. He scored in the opening game of the season, a 2–0 win over Charlton Athletic, but ten days later injured a foot and was out for a month. He scored his first Bury goal on 18 October from the penalty spot in a 2–1 loss at home to AFC Wimbledon. He was sent off against Bristol Rovers in December for an off-the-ball incident, so served a three-match ban, and spent the second half of the season on loan to League Two club Blackpool.

Danns made his Blackpool debut on 4 February 2017 in a 1–1 draw with Colchester United, but suffered the first hamstring injury of his career the following week and was out for six matches. He played regularly for the rest of the season, and scored in the final match of the regular season, a 3–1 win against Leyton Orient that confirmed Blackpool's play-off place. Danns started in both legs of the semi-final and in the final as Blackpool beat Exeter City to gain promotion to League One.

Ahead of the 2017–18 season, manager Lee Clark told Danns that he could not be guaranteed game time and was free to leave. He was not initially given a squad number and had to train away from the senior squad, but remained keen to be part of Bury's campaign. Despite starting in the EFL Trophy and making three appearances (one start) in the league in September, it was not until Clark was sacked and Ryan Lowe took over as caretaker that Danns returned to the side. Against Gillingham on 11 November, he scored his first Bury goal for a year, but a hamstring injury sustained a week later was to keep him out for the rest of 2017. His exclusion had made him contemplate retirement, but Lowe made him captain and his enthusiasm returned. He scored three goals in February and March, but Bury's return to League Two was confirmed with four matches still to go. Danns signed a one-year contract extension at the end of the season.

Danns retained the captaincy for the 2018–19 season. He scored his first goals on 3 November in a 4–1 win over Macclesfield Town, "smashing home into the top-right corner from the edge of the box" for his second. Lowe said afterwards how pleased he was that Danns' hard work had been rewarded. He found himself in and out of the first team because of injury and his international commitments with Guyana, but still ended up with 34 league appearances (28 starts) as Bury gained promotion back to League One despite the financial turmoil surrounding the club, a winding-up petition pending and players and staff being paid late or not at all.

By the time Danns returned from international duty, Bury's financial position had worsened, and after six fixtures were suspended by the EFL pending credible proof of the club's viability, it was expelled from the league on 27 August 2019. Interviewed on radio station Talksport, Danns was highly critical of the role of the owner, who in his view had "literally destroyed lives" by his failure to progress the club in a proper manner.

Tranmere Rovers
Danns became a free agent after Bury's expulsion from the league, and on 19 September he signed for League One club Tranmere Rovers until the end of the season. He made 24 appearances in all competitions without scoring.

Wales/Non-league football
In October 2020, Danns signed for Northern Premier League Premier Division club Radcliffe.

In November 2020, Danns signed a short-term deal with National League club FC Halifax Town. He left the club on 12 January 2021 after appearing in five league games. At the beginning of March, Danns signed for Cymru Premier club Connah's Quay Nomads until the end of the season. He scored once from 16 appearances, the last of which was as a late substitute in the final-day win away to Penybont that confirmed Nomads as 2020–21 Cymru Premier champions.

On 9 September 2021, Danns signed for North West Counties Premier Division club Macclesfield on non-contract terms. On 13 December 2022, Danns was appointed interim manager at Macclesfield. During his time at the club, he helped them achieve back to back League Titles/Promotions with Macclesfield going from the 9th tier to the 7th tier.

Coaching career
After spending half a season as interim Player-manager at Macclesfield during the 2022–2023 season, in which he won the Northern Premier League Division One West, Danns left at the end of the season to become assistant Manager at Tranmere Rovers.

International career