[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Body composition

d lean body mass (LBM) through empirically derived equations similar to those used with underwater weighing (for the density of fat and fat-free mass).

Isotope dilution analysis 

Total body water may be effectively measured using isotope dilution analysis of deuterium oxide.

Total body potassium 

Potassium 40 is a naturally occurring radioactive isotope found in intracellular water, but is not present in stored triglycerides (fat). Whole body counting can measure the amount of potassium 40 (40K) in the body, a quantity called total body potassium (TBK). This can be used to estimate fat-free mass directly. It has mostly been replaced by newer, more accurate techniques such as DEXA.

Bioelectrical impedance analysis 

Another method to estimate body water is bioelectrical impedance analysis  (BIA), which uses the resistance of electrical flow through the body. BIA is highly sensitive to hydration status and water intake. Drinking water dilutes the electrolytes in the body, making it less conductive, as does increasing body fat. By controlling hydration status or performing multiple impedance measurements, it is possible to estimate body fat and other variables.

InBody developed the world's first 8-point tactile electrode system in 1996, a direct segmental analysis method that measures the impedance of five torsos using multiple frequencies. Many BIA products provide partial muscle and fat mass measurements, but not impedance, especially in the torso.

Recent advancements such as 8-point electrodes, multi-frequency measurements, and Direct Segmental Analysis, have improved the accuracy of BIA machines. BIA machines have found acceptance in medical, fitness, and wellness space owing to their ease-of-use, portability, quick measurements, and cost efficiency.

Body Volume Index 

The Body Volume Index (BVI) is a technique used for measuring body shape. Initially, BVI technology employed white light scanning machines to measure an individual's body shape. However, recent technological advances in 3D measurement have enabled BVI to be calculated using images taken on a smartphone.  Two images are required to create an individual 3D silhouette. By comparing this 3D silhouette with MRI data, body volume and fat distribution can be calculated.

Skin folds
Body composition can also be measured using the skin fold test, which is performed using a measuring caliper. It can be done in nine steps: 
 Take measurements on the right side of the body.
 Mark client up.
 Pinch skin (KM) above mark
 Pull fat away from muscles
 Place caliper halfway between top and bottom of mark
 Allow caliper to settle (1–2 seconds)
 Take reading – repeat 15 seconds
 Add up total (4) – average
 Calculate body fat %

A common skin fold method is by using gun style calipers to measure the thickness of subcutaneous fat in multiple places on the body. This includes the abdominal area, the subscapular region, arms, buttocks and thighs. These measurements are then used to estimate total body fat.

Ultrasound
Ultrasound has also been used to measure subcutaneous fat thickness, and by using multiple points an estimation of body composition can be made.  Ultrasound has the advantage of being able to also directly measure muscle thickness and quantify intramuscular fat.

Quantitative magnetic resonance
Quantitative magnetic resonance (QMR) applies a magnetic field to the body and measures the difference in relaxation rates of hydrogen atoms within fat versus lean mass. It functions similarly to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) but instead of providing an image like MRI, QMR gives quantities of fat mass, lean mass, and total body water. QMR is also widely used for body composition analysis of animals, including laboratory animals like mice, and wildlife including birds.

Circumferences and other simple measurements
Assessment of somatic (skeletal) protein is typically determined by simple measurements and calculations, including mid-arm circumference (MAC), mid-arm muscle circumference (MAMC), and creatinine height ratio (CHI). Creatinine height ratio is calculated as 24-hour urine creatinine multiplied by 100 over the expected 24-hour urine creatinine for height. This calculation results in a percentage that can indicate protein depletion.

Many methods of determining body composition use the body weight as a measurement, determined via a weighing scale. Other details such as height and age can be correlated with other measures and are often used in estimation formulas.