[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ron Tschetter

orps program in Tanzania included affecting "the morale of Volunteers, new trainees, and staff" and that "because of the number of staff transitions in Tanzania, the June training class is being reduced by half to ensure adequate support for currently serving Volunteers and the new training class." 

On June 27 Senator Chris Dodd put a hold on the nomination of Mark Green to replace Retzer as Ambassador citing Retzer's action as interference in the independence of the Peace Corps. Dodd asked that Retzer rescind his cable of no confidence of Djondo or that the State Department provide a written apology to her. On June 28, the State Department provided a written letter of apology to Djondo and Senator Dodd released his hold on Green's nomination allowing it to go forward.

Embassy incident in Bolivia
In July, 2007 just before a new group of thirty Peace Corps volunteers were sworn in, they received a security briefing from US Embassy Security Officer Vincent Cooper in which they were asked "to basically spy" on Cubans and Venezuelans in the country according to a report from ABC News on February 8, 2008. Peace Corps Deputy Director for Bolivia Doreen Salazar was present at the meeting and found the comments so out of line that she interrupted the briefing to clarify that volunteers did not have to follow the embassy's instructions and Salazar protested directly to the embassy.  "We made it clear to the embassy that this was an inappropriate request, and they agreed." Associated Press reported that the U.S. Embassy in La Paz had issued a statement saying that "some routine information sessions about security given to certain American citizens included incorrect information. As soon as this was brought to our attention, appropriate measures were taken to assure that these errors would not be repeated." There is no indication that any Peace Corps volunteer made reports to the Embassy and Peace Corps issued a press release reiterating in no uncertain terms that the corps is not involved in any intelligence gathering.

On February 11, 2008 the Associated Press reported that Bolivian President Evo Morales had declared Cooper an "undesirable person." The U.S. embassy released a statement explaining that volunteers had mistakenly been given a security briefing meant only for embassy staff. "Nobody at the embassy has ever asked American citizens to participate in intelligence activities here," said U.S. ambassador Phillip S. Goldberg. "But I want to say that I greatly regret the incident that was made known this weekend."

Budget Shortfall at Peace Corps
On July 23, 2008 the Minneapolis Star Tribune reported that Peace Corps would be closing their Minneapolis and Denver recruitment offices at the end of the year. Tschetter said in a letter to Minnesota Congresswoman Betty McCollum that Peace Corps is facing an estimated $8.7 million shortfall in its budget for FY2008 because of the weakening dollar and that the tight budget could force the Peace Corps to reduce the number of volunteers serving worldwide by 5% or 400 volunteers.

Withdrawal of volunteers from Bolivia
On September 16, 2008, Peace Corps announced it was suspending operations in Bolivia due to "growing instability" and withdrawing all volunteers from the country. "Our first priority is the safety and security of our volunteers," said Tschetter. The withdrawal came in the aftermath of growing unrest in Bolivia after more than 30 people were killed in Pando the previous week and the expulsion of US Ambassador Philip Goldberg after accusations by the Bolivian government accusing the American government of inciting the violence.  State Department Press Secretary Sean McCormack was asked during a press conference on September 16 if the withdrawal of Peace Corps volunteers has anything to do with any reduction measure and he replied that "...we have to look at the situation on the ground, and it’s our obligation to take those steps that we think are necessary to ensure that our people are able to accomplish the long-term goals of that mission. And we believe that this was a prudent step based on the situation on the ground in Bolivia."  Referring to the decision to withdraw volunteers McCormack added that "Security played a big part in it."