[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dragon Flyz

Dragon Flyz is a 1996–1997 animated television series created by Savin Yeatman-Eiffel and produced by Gaumont Multimédia in association with Abrams/Gentile Entertainment. The show, based on a toy line by Galoob, ran for two seasons, in syndication in the US and Europe. 26 episodes were produced.

The program centers on a coalition known as the Dragonators (a combination of "dragon" and "aviators"), a set of humans who ride on dragon-back in search-and-rescue operations. 

David Perlmutter's Encyclopedia of American Animated Television Shows calls Dragon Flyz "a very transparent ad for a toy line, much like some of the other productions the Abrams/Gentile Studio was involved in at this time (see Happy Ness: The Secret of the Loch and Van-Pires for other examples."

Storyline
Set in the 41st century, after an event called "The Cataclysm", the series depicts the adventures of dragon-riders either human or of a reptilian, gargoyle and demon-like race, at war for control of the Earth. The battle occurs above a largely inhospitable landscape, either volcanic or barren; rivers of lava flow freely over the surface, inhabited by animals adapted to the unusual environment. The remaining human population dwells in an air-borne city known as "Airlandis", from which dragonators regularly travel to the surface to retrieve the fuel of its operation: the oviform purple crystals known as "Amber" (usually obtained from lava pools, or directly from the ground).

The nature of "The Cataclysm" is never mentioned, though in the opening sequence the surface is depicted as a post-apocalyptic scene, implying nuclear warfare. Earth's inhabitants, ecosystems, and species have been exterminated, save those sheltered in an "Oasis".  The skies immediately above the surface are ravaged by continuous lightning storms, dangerous air currents, and acidic clouds, known as the "Warp Winds", through which the only safe passages are the hollow mountains known as "Wind Pits".

Any pockets of life, where any of the planet's former species dwell in relative safety, are known as "Oasis". One such "Oasis" is discovered by protagonists Z'neth and Apex, whereupon Z'neth challenges Dreadwing to a duel for its ownership. Impatient, Dreadwing causes his dragon mount, Blackheart, to set the Oasis ablaze.  At the end of the episode, Apex is seen carrying a birds' nest, with a few eggs, on the saddle of her Dragon.

Airlandis is an airborne city (see Laputa) golden in color. Five large "bio-spheres" hover in its centre, each simulating a different natural habitat and thus preserving the species rescued from the Cataclysm. The city's most important region is its "power core", operated by the engineer Orac, who requires a regular supply of Amber. Additionally Airlandis has a runway for the Dragonators, a Dragon aviary (where the Dragons reside when not needed to fly), a Council Chamber (where matters of government are negotiated), a Control Room (known as "Skywatch", where a team of uniformed men maintain the city's systems and monitor the skies), and a prison. Dialogue implies that the populace seek a residence on the surface untouched by the Cataclysm. It is shown in one episode that some humans escaped the Cataclysm aboard a space station, on which the protagonists' mother now resides.

Characters
All the main characters, good or evil, ride dragon mounts into battle, but have the ability to fly short distances themselves.  The Dragonators make use of a technology whereby dragonfly-like wings (known as "Exo-wings") emerge from the back-plate of their armor; whereas Dreadwing and his minions the Dramen literally 'sprout' membraneous wings from their shoulders. Both types of wing vanish after the immediate flight's conclusion. The Dragonators' chief weapon is the "Wind Jammer": a wrist-mounted weapon that fires blue energy bolts; whereas Dreadwing and his minions wield glove-like cannons which launch balls or streams of lava.  All four protagonists' names are associated with height or elevation.

Humans

Z'neth
Callsign: Dragonator One
Hair Colour: White
Armor Color: Cerulean
Dragon Steed: Riptor

The leader of the Dragonators, and the eldest of the four siblings, Z'neth (pronounced "zenith", meaning "directly above") is characterised by honour and integrity.

Summit
Callsign: Dragonator Two
Hair Colour: Bleached Blonde
Armor Color: Forest Green
Dragon Steed: Sky-Fury, called "Fury" for short

The second-eldest sibling amongst the four. Summit is known for his various witty remarks, quick anger, and preference for physical strength in trouble. His name means "the highest point of a mountain".

Apex
Callsign: Dragonator Three
Hair Colour: Orange
Armor Color: Silver
Dragon Steed: Blazewind, called "Blaze" for short