[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of Transmetropolitan characters

ion of the Martial Law arc.
Oscar Rossini, Yelena's father and a well-known political figure, who supported Senator Longmarch's campaign against "The Beast". Known for his philanthropy and good nature, he bears a striking physical resemblance to Spider, as well as sharing a similar sense of humour. He shelters Spider (as a way of keeping his daughter close and safe) after he is incapacitated during the Dirge arc. When they reveal a massacre perpetrated by the National Guard and the identity of Vita Severn's assassin, he allows Spider, Channon, and Yelena to escape and finish their work, while he and Lau Qi remain to capture their imminent arrest on camera and further embarrass the White House. He accepted his arrest with confidence and promised to return the unpleasant favor on the arresting officers. It's assumed that Oscar is eventually acquitted after the Smiler's downfall.
Lau Qi, a young Chinese-American woman who is co-founder of The Hole, a feedsite (a futuristic website/file-sharing network) that runs unbiased news coverage as well as allowing people to upload, download, and share other downloadable media. Qi later admitted that they only set The Hole up in the first place to distribute pornography, and that news had been a "sideline". Spider turns to Qi (pronounced "Kay") and her colleague/boyfriend John Nkrumah when he is forced to leave The Word after the board of directors, pressured by The Smiler, have him fired; this is in spite of Qi being incredibly apolitical. During The Cure/Martial Law arc, Spider forces her to accompany him as he and his comrades try to evade the National Guard. She is last seen enjoying a glass of wine with Oscar Rossini and setting up cameras to capture his imminent arrest. It's likely she was apprehended (and eventually acquitted) along with him.

Antagonists

Presidents
The Beast: The Beast is (and was) a two-term president whom Spider Jerusalem despised for his political tactics and condescending attitude toward the population. A Richard Nixon-esque President, The Beast possesses something of a superiority complex and has few qualms with punishing districts which don't support him. Spider repeatedly accused the Beast of being a power-hungry politician who had no real beliefs, who wanted to be president but had no interest in actually doing the job required of him. As Spider finds out in an interview, the Beast simply believes in "getting through the day", doing the bare minimum required of him in order to ensure that the country continues to run and that at least the bare majority of the population survives. Unlike "The Smiler", the Beast's real name is mentioned only in passing early on in the series, and it was Spider who gave him the nickname. The Beast's supporters and even his own children refer to him by his nickname, for which he despises Spider. Spider explains that the name originated from his mental picture of the man, "a big black animal squatting in the heart of America... the thing in us that votes to fuck other people in the gall bladder, the lizard brain that says nothing but eat-kill-hump-shit".  
The Smiler, real name Gary Callahan, is the presidential candidate who is elected at the end of the first story arc of the comic. Nicknamed for his wide, rigid, nearly perpetual grin, the Smiler is originally given Spider's grudging support, until he proves to be far more corrupt and dangerous than the Beast, eventually becoming the primary antagonist of the series. The Smiler privately admits to Spider that he hates everyone and only wants to be President in order to control and oppress people. Eventually, he begins a personal vendetta against Spider after the journalist repeatedly humiliates him in the public eye. The Smiler goes so far as to send assassins after him, have Spider fired from The Word, and sic the National Guard on the cynical journalist. The Smiler also has no qualms about killing anyone whose death will help him gain or keep power, as demonstrated by his orchestration of the assassinations of Vita Severn and, later, his wife and children. According to Fred Christ, every time the Smiler's support fades he has someone close killed (such that it looks like an accident) in order to regain loyalty via sympathy. Spider finally exposes Callahan for what he is at the end of the series, at which point he's arrested by Detective Newton, perhaps the only cop immune to the Smiler's corrupt influence. In the final issue, it's revealed that he has been denied presidential pardon by his successor, and despite a few hard-core supporters is quickly running out of the money and resources that will allow him to forestall the legal process, implying that he will probably be convicted and incarcerated.