[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

erate gunboat arrived. Foote then ordered preparations for a night time engagement. When darkness fell, Phelps ordered the Benton to take up a position further downstream, hoping to surprise and intercept any approaching Confederate gunboats under cover of darkness, but no enemy gunboats came along.

The day after Foote's departure, the Cincinnati positioned Mortar boat No. 16, and then docked alongside. The mortar boat opened fire at 5 a.m.  By 6 a.m. eight Confederate rams rapidly steamed upriver, coming around Graighead Point, with black smoke revealing the advancing fleet in the distance. Union crews "beat to quarters", with Union gunboats taking positions out into the river.  As they closed on the Union vessels at Plum Point Phelps ordered firing from the Benton and the Cincinnati. After approximately an hour long sortie the Confederate gunboats retreated. He at that point determined that the appearance of the Confederate gunboats, who retreated with no damage, were sent to scout out Union positions and strength. Phelps' attitude was such that he exclaimed, "The more they see us, the better. They won't like us any more for what they witness. They are welcome to all they can discover".

On May 10, 1862, the Confederate River Defense Fleet early in the morning emerged from around Craighead point, surprised and attacked the Union squadron that had moved up to support mortar boat attacks on Fort Pillow. With the General Bragg, commanded by  Captain W.H.H. Leonard, leading the Confederate rams at full speed, they born down on the Cincinnati. Phelps, aboard the Benton had spotted their smoke from the distance and attempted to signal the other ships, but morning fog obscured their warning signal and went unnoticed. During the battle, the Union's Cincinnati and Mound City were rammed. The two badly damaged vessels retreated to shallow water near the riverbank and sank. Other ships began entering the fray including USS Mound City and CSS Van Dorn which rammed Mound City. In the morning fog and smoke from numerous broadsides from the gunboats, visibility was greatly impaired and a general state of confusion prevailed over the battle. Following the Carondelet Phelps arrived in the slow-moving and massive Benton swung about and opened fire. He then brought the Benton around and came alongside the sunken Cincinnati with her crew waiting on top of the wheelhouse. Unable to pursue due to deeper draft, the Confederate ships then withdrew. Although the Confederates were victorious, the Union squadron was able to proceed down river and attack the Confederate squadron during the Battle of Memphis the following month. At a later date both the Cincinnati and Mound City were raised and placed back into service.

After the Cincinnati and Mound City were rammed, it prompted Phelps to devise defensive structures for the various Union gunboats. In a May 28 report to Foote, who was recovering in Cleveland, Phelps informed him that he had reinforced the Benton and the other vessels by placing railroad iron along the bows and sterns, by slinging logs about the sides, and by placing protective iron framework around the rudders, along with devising other structural enhancements for the vessels. Reporting to Foote, he stated that Colonel Alfred Ellet had also arrived with some half dozen rams. While Phelps related that his report was made in the midst of much confusion, he also intimated that he was pleased with the performance of Davis, the new fleet commander. There was but little cooperation between Ellet and Davis – his rams viewed by the regular navy as inadequate for combat. Both Phelps and Davis expressed this view in their later writings.

With the Confederate fleet in retreat, laying siege on the fort was Davis's next objective. However, when an indifferent Ellet learned that Davis intended to attack the fort he steamed by the slow-moving ironclads with his fleet of rams before Davis could launch reach and attack the fort. Upon approaching the fort Ellet heard gunfire and saw smoking billowing up from the earthworks. He went ashore with a squad of men and discovered that the Confederates had evacuated the fort and disabled or destroyed everything of use to the Union. Later that day Phelps was inspecting the inside of the abandoned fort and discovered that the Union fleet could have safely passed the fort by staying close to the river bank below the steep buffs, out of the line of fire from the fort's guns, realizing that Davis had wasted an entire month.

Memphis