[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 167]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

to expose their weakness to
the contempt of their enemies, they yielded without opposition to the
invader; in this, indeed, more wise than to irritate him by a fruitless
resistance; and thus, in a few weeks, the leader of an obscure tribe of
barbarians saw himself become a powerful monarch, and possessor of one
of the richest provinces of Asia.

"'I was sitting one evening at the door of my cottage, gazing upon the
fading glory of the setting sun, when a man, of a majestic appearance,
but with something ferocious in his look, attended by several others,
passed by. As he approached my little garden, he seemed to view it with
satisfaction, and to unbend the habitual sternness of his look; I asked
him if he would enter in and taste the fruits with his companions. He
accepted my offer, and, entering into a shady arbour, I brought him the
most palatable fruits I could find, with milk and other rustic fare,
such as my farm afforded. He seemed pleased with his entertainment, and,
when he was departing, thanked me with great affability, and bade me ask
a favour in return, 'which,' added he, with a certain degree of
conscious pride, 'you can scarcely make too great either for my
gratitude or power.' 'If,' answered I (for I began to suspect that it
was Arsaces, the leader of these barbarians), 'your power is indeed
equal to every boon, give peace and liberty to my country!' 'The first,'
said he, 'I have already given; and, as to the second, it is impossible;
their vices and effeminacy render them incapable of enjoying it. Men
that have neither virtue, temperance, nor valour, can never want a
master, even though Arsaces were to withdraw his conquering troops.'
'But ask again,' added he, 'something for thyself, and let the favour be
worthy me to bestow.' 'Heaven,' answered I with a smile, 'has already
given everything I can want, when it gave the earth fertility, and me
the power to labour. All, therefore, that I request, O mighty conqueror,
is, that you will please to order your men to step aside from the newly
cultivated ground, and not destroy my vegetables.' 'By heaven!' said
Arsaces, turning to his companions, 'there is something elevated in the
tranquillity and composure of this man's mind; and, was I not _Arsaces_,
I should be with pleasure _Chares_.' He then departed, but ordered me to
attend him the next day at the camp, and gave strict orders that none of
the soldiers should molest or injure my humble residence.

"'I attended the great Arsaces at the time he had appointed, and
traversed the encampment of his troop with admiration and regret. This
people was a tribe of that mighty empire which is called _Scythia_,
whose inhabitants have so often issued from their deserts for the
conquest and destruction of their neighbours.

"'This country extends to an unknown length behind the most fertile
districts of Europe and Asia. The climate is cold in winter, and the
earth for several months covered with snow; but in summer it feels the
enlivening influence of the sun, and for that reason is possessed of an
amazing degree of fertility. But as the inhabitants live remote from the
sea, and possess few navigable rivers, they are little acquainted with
agriculture, or the arts of life. Instead of trusting to the increase of
their fields for food, they raise prodigious herds of cattle and horses
in the luxuriant pastures which everywhere abound. The Scythians, like
the Arabians, wander over these immense spaces without a fixed or
permanent residence. By the side of lakes and rivers, where the verdure
is most constant, and the vegetation stronger, they generally encamp,
until the heats of the summer compel them to ascend the mountains, and
seek a cooler residence. Their houses are composed of slender poles
covered with skins, or a coarse cloth, and therefore easily erected, or
taken down and stowed in waggons, for the convenience of transporting
them in their marches. Their diet is answerable to the poverty of their
habitations. They milk their herds, and, above all, their mares, and
preserve the produce in large bottles for months together. This sour and
homely mess is to them the greatest dainty, and composes the chief of
their nourishment; to this they add the flesh of their cattle and
horses, which they kill when afflicted with disease, but rarely in
health.

"'This is the simple and uniform life of all the Scythians; but this
simplicity renders them formidable to all their neighbours, and
irresistible in war. Unsoftened by ease or luxury, unacquainted with the
artificial wants of life, these nations pass their lives in manly
exercises and rustic employments; but horsemanship is the greatest pride
and passion of their souls; nor is there an individual who does not at
least possess several of these noble animals, which, though small in
size, are admirably adapted for the fatigues of war and the chase, and
endowed with incomparable swiftness. As t