[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Israel–Turkey relations

state of war and do not have relations. Israel has plans to send aid to Syria, including humanitarian aid, medication, blankets, and tents. In contrast to the assistance provided by Israel to Turkey, any assistance provided to Syria by the Israeli government would not involve the military, according to IDF spokesman Ran Kochav who stated that the military was not involved in potential aid to Syria.

Cultural ties

The Arkadaş Association was established in 2003 to preserve the heritage of Turkish Jews, promote the study of Ladino, and strengthen ties between Israel and Turkey. The organization has over 4,000 members since its inception, about 40 volunteers to run its vast operations and its twelve branches throughout the country. Eyal Peretz, chairman of the association, told the Jerusalem Post that Jewish heritage trips to Turkey had stopped because of security concerns and dwindling demand. Peretz stated, "I've devoted most of my life as an adult to cultivate ties between the two people and I've seen how a warm relationship has been erased in one fell swoop. It's very painful, very frustrating."

Regional realignments

Turkish-occupied Northern Cyprus

Cyprus and Israel signed an accord demarcating their maritime borders to facilitate offshore gas exploration. Cypriot Foreign Minister Markos Kyprianou and Israel's Infrastructure Minister Uzi Landau signed the deal in Nicosia. The intent is to facilitate a search for mineral deposits in the east Mediterranean where huge natural gas reserves have been discovered. Turkish sources said that the Foreign Ministry had summoned Israel's Ambassador to Turkey, Gabby Levy, and expressed discontent over the agreement. Israeli energy firm Delek Group is seeking to work with Cyprus on natural gas exploration and extraction where Delek is already active.

According to Turkish media reports in September 2011, Israel Air Force fighter planes flew through the airspace of Cyprus after taking off to face a Turkish seismic research ship in the Eastern Mediterranean. The reports added that Turkey responded by launching two fighters to track the Israeli planes, at which point the Israeli fighter jets returned to Israeli airspace. The Turkish research vessel was seen as a Turkish provocation in the dispute over gas fields. The operation of Israeli planes in Cyprus airspace was interpreted as a further sign of close Israel-Cyprus ties and as a challenge to Turkey. In May 2012, the Turkish Army command said its fighter jets chased an Israeli plane out of Turkish-occupied Cypriot airspace. In May 2012, Cyprus also denied a report that Israel planned to deploy 20,000 troops in Cyprus to protect Israelis working on energy projects.

Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories

Shortly after the voting of the UN General Assembly Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu stated that Israel should question why it did not have the support by the majority of countries at the Palestine Vote in the UN General Assembly and declared that Palestine was now a state. Palestinian National Authority Foreign Minister Riyad al-Maliki and Turkish diplomats celebrated at the Türkevi, the Turkish Center in New York City.

See also
 Antisemitism in Turkey
 Azerbaijan–Israel relations
 Gaza flotilla raid
 History of the Jews in Turkey
 Jewish Museum of Turkey
 List of ambassadors of Turkey to Israel
 Palestine–Turkey relations
 Turks in Israel

References

Sources

External links
 Official website of the Turkish Community in Israel
 Relations between Turkey and Israel (from the website of the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
 Embassy of Israel in Ankara, Turkey
 A timeline of Turkey-Israel relations by the Washington Institute of Near East Studies
 Study of Turkish-Israeli Cooperation and its implications on Greece
 Turkish-Israeli Relations: Strain on a Fragile Alliance 11 June 2009
 Turkish-Israeli Relations: Is It All About Iran?
 In Israel, Concerns over Turkey's Present Orientation and Future Course  Balkanalysis.com, 19 February 2011
 Cohen, M. & Freilich, C.D. Breakdown and Possible Restart: Turkish-Israeli Relations under the AKP, Israel Journal of Foreign Affairs VIII : 1 (2014) pp 39–55

 
Turkey
Bilateral relations of Turkey