[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Gunpowder Plot: Exploding the Legend

nt

Historical dramatization
Henry Douthwaite as Guy Fawkes
Stuart Liddle as King James I
Matt Rozier as Robert Catesby
Jonathan Dunstan as Thomas Winteur
Daniel Hoadley as Thomas Percy
Toby Knight as John Wright
Tallulah Boote Bond as Princess Elizabeth
John Joyce as Father Henry Garnet

Production

When approached with the idea of building a full-size replica of Parliament, stuffing the basement with gunpowder and blowing it up, presenter Richard Hammond considered it a hoax. He "simply did not believe that anyone would be crazy enough to recreate the Gunpowder Plot."

Production, historically and scientifically correct, took six months. While historical research was underway in England, Hammond and explosives expert Sidney Alford had to travel to Spain to buy some gunpowder, as not enough was available in the UK. They were stopped at the French border by customs because, as Hammond recounted, "our expert [unsurprisingly] turned out to be contaminated with traces of just about every form of explosive known to man, triggering a security alert."

Hammond recounts that during filming the 2005 London Bombings put the production in a different frame of reference:

 
Production designer Jo Manser built part of the House of Lords (the Westminster tower) to scale as it was in 1605, and then "blew it up to see if Guy Fawkes would have succeeded 400 years ago". Manser said the set (11m by 23m and 16m high) required a production crew of 45 people, and cost £200k. The set was built between July and September 2005. AP Structural engineers were consulted to assess the equations used building the structure to ensure accuracy and safety. Despite preparations, Manser noted that while sets are eventually discarded, "this was a more exciting way to dispose of it."

For the interior filming, fifteen small digital cameras were used, including PD150s. For the external shots of the explosion, a slow motion camera was used, not the type typically used in television filming. Advanitca used them to study the explosions frame by frame.

Reception

Adam Nicolson of The Guardian wrote in August that the casting of Hammond was "eccentric." Thomas Sutcliffe of The Independent noted with "satisfaction" that the documentary was "irresistible to anyone with a weakness for the delicious combination of immediate spectacle and delayed climax." Sunday Express' Adrian Pettet points out that Gunpowder is "a cross between Mechannibals and Timewatch, it's great fun and there is a bit of proper history smuggled in there too".

References

External links
What If the Gunpowder Plot Had Succeeded?
The History of the Gunpowder Plot (Produced by The Parliamentary Archives)
The Gunpowder Plot of 1605
Catholic Encyclopedia: The Gunpowder Plot
The Gunpowder Plot (Website exploring the history of the plot for younger users)
The Gunpowder Plot (House of Commons Information Sheet)

Anglicanism
British documentary television films
Gunpowder Plot
Historical reenactment events
ITV (TV network) original programming
2005 in British television