[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Clinical engineering

he latest medical products and to attend the 500-seat conference where academic and business leaders share their expertise. The conference was founded in 2009 as a way of improving healthcare through sharing knowledge from experienced professionals involved in medical equipment management.

In India

Healthcare has increasingly become technology-driven and requires trained manpower to keep pace with the growing demand for professionals in the field.

An M-Tech Clinical Engineering course was initiated by Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Sree Chitra Thirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology, Trivandrum and Christian Medical College, Vellore, to address the country's need for human resource development.

This was aimed at indigenous biomedical device development as well as technology management in order to contribute to the overall development of healthcare delivery in the country.

During the course, students of engineering are given an insight into biology, medicine, relevant electronic background, clinical practices, device development, and even management aspects.

Students are paired with clinical doctors from CMC and SCTIMST to get hands-on experience during internships. An important aspect of this training is simultaneous, long-term, and detailed exposure to the clinical environment as well as to medical device development activity.

This will help students understand how to recognize unmet clinical needs and contribute to the creation of future medical devices. Engineers will be trained to handle and oversee the safe and effective use of technology in healthcare delivery sites as part of the program.

The minimum qualification for joining this course is a bachelor's degree in any discipline of engineering, technology, or architecture, and a valid GATE score with an interview process in that field.

See also
 Biomedical engineering

References

Further reading

Medical engineering stories in the news

External links
 EBME website EBME website for Medical, Biomedical, and Clinical engineering professionals.

Logistics
Health care