[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Front for Victory

Allowance, which generalizes the family allowance per child for all children under 18 whose parents are unemployed or work in the informal economy for pay no more than the minimum wage, vital and mobile, including monotributistas.  This benefit was extended to pregnant women over 12 weeks gestation.

Along with these, there were also redistributive public policies, such as increasing the percentage of GDP spent on education which grew from 3.64% in 2003 to 6.02% in 2010. In absolute terms, increased from 14.501 million pesos in 2003 to 89,924,000 pesos in 2010, a 520% more. School construction, between 2003 and 2010 were built over a thousand schools benefiting half a million students, the second period of increased school construction in the history of Argentina. It also promoted the adoption of the Law of mobility retirement, which sets a minimum of two annual increases in pensions. In addition, measures were taken as the recovery of Aerolineas Argentinas and Austral Airlines, which was proposed by a bill introduced by President Fernández to rescue companies, by approving the agreement between the National Government and the group Interinvest on 17 July 2008, whereby the Argentine government acquired the shares of these and other related companies. Also through another law,  renationalized the Military Aircraft Factory (FMA), given under concession to U.S. company Lockheed Martin in 1995.  In 2009, the parliament sent the draft Law on Audiovisual Communication Services, which came to displace the old Media Law, which was passed by the de facto government of Jorge Rafael Videla. - The bill was debated in about 30 forums across the length and breadth of the country, which exposed citizens, journalists, owners of radio and TV channels, and managed to introduce some 140 amendments on a 150-points proposal. - Finally the bill was passed by a comfortable majority in both legislative chambers. - The project raged the government's confrontation with the major media outlets of Argentina, facing a strong campaign to discredit her image. - In 2011, the confrontation with the media worsened after boosting in parliament a bill to declare of public interest the manufacture of paper for newsprint. - Finally, the law was passed and Papel Prensa, the only producer of the product in Argentina, to then in the hands of the two major newspapers in the country, went on to provide the material at the same price to all who required it daily. - In terms of sovereignty, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner has taken steps towards resuming negotiations with the United Kingdom over the Falkland Islands. - On 16 April 2012 announced the involvement in the oil company YPF (Fiscal Oilfields), whose majority stake was owned by the Spanish company Repsol, which had previously been questioned by deficiencies in oil supplies and new explorations. Also sent to Congress a bill to expropriate 51% of the shares and regain state control over the nonrenewable natural resource. - The announcement drew a resounding support from the public and most of the political spectrum, both the ruling party and opposition. - Finally, the draft became law by a large majority in both houses of parliament. -

Electoral history

Presidential elections

Congressional elections

Chamber of Deputies

Senate elections

See also 
Kirchnerism

References

External links

2003 establishments in Argentina
2017 disestablishments in Argentina
Center-left parties in Argentina
Christian democratic parties in Argentina
Defunct political party alliances in Argentina
Justicialist Party
Kirchnerism
Peronist parties and alliances in Argentina
Political parties disestablished in 2017
Political parties established in 2003
Political party factions in Argentina
Popular fronts