[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Chaim Yisroel Eiss

Chaim Yisroel Eiss (1876–1943, ) was an Agudath Israel activist and writer.  He also was among the founders of the Agudath Israel in 1912. During the First World War, Rebbe Eiss set up an aid system that located refugees, found out what they most needed and raised the required funds.  During World War II, he worked on behalf of Jews in Nazi-occupied Europe and he was a member of the Ładoś Group also called as Ładoś Group.

Personal life
Chaim Yisroel Eiss was born in Galicia, Austria-Hungary, in the town of Ustrzyki Dolne, now Poland; as one of 11 children of Rebbe Moshe Nissan Eiss and his wife Myria née Kessler. He was the only one of the children to survive an epidemic of diphtheria, an illness for which there was no treatment at the time. After the death of his other children, his father Rebbe Moshe Nissan Eiss took young Yisroel to the Sadigora Rebbe who blessed him and gave him an additional name, Chaim. 

Eiss got no secular education. ‘I taught myself to write at a later age. I did not learn any trade either as my father wanted me to be a rabbi. For this reason, I then only completed Jewish religious studies’, he declared in 1943. In 1900, he moved to Switzerland and came to Zurich where he wanted to study. However, having no money, he started working as a door-to-door vendor. Later, in 1901, Eiss acquired his own shop.

Later on he married Adele Holles. The couple had 10 children.

Agudath Israel
Eiss was a founding member of Agudath Israel and one of its main activists.  He operated mainly behind the scenes and every proposal that was brought to the presidium for ratification was first presented to him .

During the First World War, Eiss set up a large aid system that located refugees, found out what they most needed and raised the required funds .

Eiss was entrusted by the leading Rabbis of the time with the directorship of all Switzerland-based Agudath Israel funds. These included the Orphan Aid Fund, the Land of Israel Yeshiva Fund and the Polish and Lithuanian Yeshiva Fund. He received contributions from all over the world and transferred the money to the recipients.

Eiss was a writer and published the Agudath Israel publication Haderech. He wrote all the articles himself and was personally responsible for printing and distributing the paper. He was also a regular contributor to the then Agudath Israel weekly Kol Yisrael, printed in Jerusalem, and used it to make his opinions known to the population of Eretz Israel .

Rescue work

Eiss lived in Switzerland, which was neutral during World War II, and was therefore able to serve as the link between people living in countries under Nazi occupation and residents of the free world. He transferred information and requests for help to the Agudath Israel offices in London, New York City, and Istanbul, and facilitated the transfer of money, passport photographs, and requests to locate family members into Europe.  He received hundreds of letters from Nazi-occupied countries and was one of the first to obtain a clear picture of the atrocities that were being carried out there .

Interrogated by the Swiss police in May 1943, Eiss admitted to having worked together with Polish diplomats to illegally obtain a fake passport from a corrupted honorary consul of Paraguay Rudolf Hugli. ‘I always contact the Polish Consul, Rokicki, who then, in turn, contacts the Paraguayan Consul, Hügli in Bern, who issues the documents. Then, presumably, Rokicki must pay some amount to Mr Hügli. The certificates are then be sent to Poland in the original, whereas the passports are to be photocopied and the copies notarised’, . Eiss would then obtain the copies of the passports, presumably through the Polish-Jewish diplomat Juliusz Kühl, right-hand of the envoy of Poland Aleksander Ładoś and have them smuggled into the German occupation zone. The letters contained certificates showing that the person concerned had been granted Paraguayan citizenship. In many cases, Eiss provided the names of his acquaintances as the senders so as to make sure that his own name was not revealed to the censorship authorities. ‘All the addressees were religious Jewish persons living in Warsaw and Będzin’, he declared.

The bearers of the Paraguayan passports would be placed in the internment camps in occupied France and Germany rather than sent to the extermination camps. Thus, hundreds of them managed to survive the war. In 1944, Poland forced Paraguay to temporarily recognize the validity of the passports.