[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Changlimithang Stadium

inuing to hold sporting events, the facility has been utilised for wider public occasions including the Wedding of Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck and Jetsun Pema. Despite the increase in capacity a few years earlier, the stadium was unable to hold all of the people who wished to attend the occasion.

Following the wedding, more improvements were made to the football pitch, with the grass field being replaced with an artificial surface to improve the performance of the players and add additional durability to the facility as a whole. Historically, it had been very difficult to maintain the ground to an acceptable standard, with an uneven, rain-soaked pitch leading to mocking calls from spectators in the mid-1990s.

Financial support from FIFA enabled the project to go ahead and work started at the ground in March 2012 with the artificial turf being laid in November and finished in December the same year. As part of a two-day visit to Bhutan in March 2012, FIFA president Sepp Blatter performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the new pitch, promising that FIFA would support Bhutanese football. However, there were delays in completing the upgrade as cold weather at the beginning of the project prevented workers from starting construction and the monsoon weather in the summer hampered the ability of suppliers to deliver materials such as cement to the site. The delays were such that they nearly resulted in a postponement to the start of the national league, with the Bhutan Football Federation considering moving the initial matches to the Royal Bhutan Police's ground. The playing surface was manufactured in the Netherlands and was laid by companies from England and the Netherlands, as the first part of a two-stage series of works to install artificial turf at both Changlimithang and Changjiji football ground, also in Thimphu. The first match to be played on the new pitch was the opening match in the inaugural edition of the Bhutan National League between Druk Pol and Ugyen Academy. The President of the Bhutan Olympic Committee, Jigyel Ugyen Wangchuk, having officially opened the new playing surface, then took part in the first match as a player for Druk Pol. The total cost of the new pitch was estimated to $900,000.

Unusually for a national stadium, and as a result of the conversion of the playing surface to artificial turf, the football field at Changlimithang is available for public hire and is extremely popular with people in Thimphu, with the pitch booked for public use from 5 pm - 1am most days during the week as office workers seek to make use of it and from 7 am to 9 pm at weekends. This has proved to be a valuable source of income for the Bhutan Football Federation. With teams needing to make bookings weeks in advance, the Federation made Nu 75,000 in the first fortnight that the pitch was available to the public, with the money gained from hire charges going towards financing additional artificial surfaces planned for elsewhere in the country. Demand for the chance to play on an artificial surface is now so great that the Bhutan Football Federation prepared to hire out the artificial pitch at Changjiji, once available only to train members of the national squad. 

Changlimithang played host to the FIFA World Cup trophy as part of its global tour prior to the 2014 FIFA World Cup.

See also
Centenary and Coronation Park

References

Football venues in Bhutan
Bhutan
Multi-purpose stadiums
Sport in Thimphu
Sports venues completed in 1974
Buildings and structures in Thimphu
1974 establishments in Bhutan