[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# T.I. vs. T.I.P.

tters and dies more than once; after a few consecutive listens, T.I. sounds dour and joyless, like he's just punching the clock. T.I. vs. T.I.P. may be self-obsessed and self-indulgent, but maybe T.I. needed to make this album to keep himself interested. Let's hope he's gotten it out of his system."

Colin McGuire of PopMatters states "Here, he overshadows any work he
has previously done by keeping his Southern hip-hop roots intact while putting just enough attention on the hooks that one could easily find half of these songs that paint T.I. vs. T.I.P's canvas on your favorite Hot 100 radio station. And he does it better than he has ever been able to do it before. Harris has come a long way from initially snapping back as the rubber band man. And now, with another hip-hop masterpiece under his belt, maybe Cohen can have a laugh himself as well." Ian Cohen of Stylus Magazine stated "The biggest failing of T.I. vs. T.I.P.: though his singles are obsessed with knowledge of self and others, during the span of a seemingly endless album that centers around an identity crisis, T.I. mostly fails to realize the difference between introspection and self-absorption. It's more of a hastily assembled construct grafted onto the persona of a generic trap star who doesn't seem capable of taking real artistic chances. In his mind, anyone who criticizes T.I. is "just another hater who's broke again," waiting for some backpacker epiphany that will never come, like Little Brother becoming commercially relevant or Freddie Foxxx coming out of hiding to lyrically knuckle this guy down. It's like T.I.'s been speaking in code to us all along: What you know about that? You know what it is. You don't know me. But you know what? After spending hours with T.I. vs. T.I.P. chasm-like emptiness, I can't see why anyone would care." Nick Marx of Tiny Mix Tapes noted "After reaching his creative apex, is there a more predictable and plodding step down for an artist than a concept album? Did anyone even know (or care) that the two iterations of Clifford Harris' moniker represent, respectively, his business and street sides? T.I. vs T.I.P. is mercifully light on the requisite skits illustrating its dichotomy, but you almost wish there were more of them to explain the album's weird alchemy of simultaneously overwrought and undercooked production and flaccid, self-absorbed lyricism." Brendan Frederick of XXL Magazine notes "Atlanta rapper Clifford Harris opened this old wound four years ago on "T.I. vs. T.I.P.," a highlight from his sophomore opus, Trap Muzik, where T.I.P., his reckless, shit-talking core, battled T.I., the consummate professional/smooth operator. After a tumultuous 2006 filled with highs (King solidified his place as one of hip-hop's illuminati) and lows (the senseless murder of his best friend), Tip re-examines his schizophrenic psyche on his fifth album, T.I. vs. T.I.P. Call it trap therapy. Hopefully, someday we'll find out what really makes T.I. tick."

Accolades
At the 50th Annual Grammy Awards, T.I. was nominated with a total of three nominations, including Grammy Award for Best Rap Album, Grammy Award for Best Rap Solo Performance and Grammy Award for Best Rap Song for the single "Big Shit Poppin' (Do It)". The album won T.I. the American Music Award for Favorite Rap/Hip-Hop Album at The American Music Awards of 2007. T.I. also won the American Music Award for Favorite Rap/Hip-Hop Artist at The American Music Awards of 2007.

Commercial performance
T.I. vs. T.I.P. debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200, selling 470,000 copies in its first week of release, according to Nielsen SoundScan. This become T.I.'s second consecutive US number-one debut and his fourth US top-ten album. The album also charted at number one on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums and the Top Rap Albums charts. In its second week, the album remained at number one on the chart, selling an additional 185,000 copies. In its third week, the album slipped to number three on the chart, selling 94,000 more copies. In its fourth week, the album slipped to number five on the chart, selling 65,000 more copies. On August 30, 2007, the album was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America for selling over a million copies in the United States.

In Canada, the album entered the Canadian Albums Chart at number seven, in France the album entered the French Albums Chart at number 108, in Japan the album entered the Japanese Albums Chart at number 21, in New Zealand the album entered the New Zealand Albums Chart at number 37, and in Switzerland the album entered the Swiss Albums Chart at number 59. In Canada, the Canadian Recording Industry Association certified the album gold for sales of over 50,000 copies in Canada.

Track listing

Notes
 signifies an additional producer.
 signifies a co-producer.

Sample credits