[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frederick Stuart Church

ale and Rosie Horst of Newton, Kansas, which lent them to the Fulton Gallery in 2003, for an extensive exhibition including both Church's original drawings and the magazines and periodicals in which they appeared.

The Resource Library Magazine, 
describing the exhibition, noted the following items:

 Opening of the Season at the North Pole (originally published Harper's Weekly, December 1875) depicts "polar bears on ice skates,(...) amiable, fun-loving animals always ready to play games or join in adventures".
 Flapjacks (Harper's Weekly, December 1892) - "A small bear holding a griddle while a young lady prepares an eagerly anticipated breakfast for a crowd of adult bears" was used in the December 1892 issue of the same publication.
 A New Year's Greeting (Harper's Young People, January 1, 1889) -"A large stork clutching a basket in his beak while a chubby round baby smiles from inside".
 Christmas Fun (Harper's Weekly, December 16, 1893) - "A young woman being assisted by a bear in putting on her ice skates".
 Santa's Cake Walk (Harper's Bazaar, December 17, 1898) - "A scene in which Santa directs a polar bear band seated in his reindeer-driven sleigh while dozens of bears dance with top hats, canes and fans".
 Christmas Morning: One Hundred Fathoms Deep (Harper's Young People, December 11, 1888).
 "Cold Sauce with the Christmas Pudding" - an 1894 painting made for Century Magazine, the original later donated to the Fulton gallery by Robert F. Skutch of Baltimore.
 The Snow Witch's Daughter (Harper's Bazaar, December 23, 1882)

References

External links
Frederick Stuart Church Biography, paintings, etchings & drawings
Resource Library Magazine article & drawings
Article on the letters of Frederick Stuart Church
Article on Church's animal illustrations

1842 births
1924 deaths
Artists from Grand Rapids, Michigan
American illustrators
Art Students League of New York alumni
Artists from Michigan
Union Army soldiers
Members of the Salmagundi Club