[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Demographics of Houston

2010 census, the long-term effects of white flight led to 25.6% of the city population identifying as non-Hispanic white; by 2020, its White American population declined to 23.7%. Areas like Pearland, Missouri City, and Katy have experienced white flight in the 2010s.

Hispanic and Latino Americans 

The Hispanic and Latino American population in Houston has been increasing as more immigrants from Latin American countries come to work in the area, although several Hispanic and Latino communities existed in Houston since the 1800s. As of 2006 the city has the third-largest Hispanic-Latino population in the United States. As of the same year Karl Eschbach, a University of Texas Medical Branch demographer, said that the number of illegal immigrants in the Houston area was estimated at 400,000, with over 70% being of Mexican descent.

As of 2011, the city was 44% Hispanic and Latino American. As of 2011, of the city's U.S. citizens that are Hispanic-Latino, half are at voting age or older. Many Hispanics and Latinos in Houston are not U.S. citizens, especially those living in Gulfton and Spring Branch. As a result, Hispanic and Latino Americans have proportionally less representation in the municipal government than other ethnic groups. As of April 2011 two of the Houston City Council members were Hispanic-Latino, making up 18% of the council.

As of 2010, Strait and Gong, authors of Ethnic Diversity in Houston, Texas: The Evolution of Residential Segregation in the Bayou City, 1990–2000, stated that Hispanics and Latinos had "intermediate levels of segregation" from non-Hispanic whites.

In the early 1980s, there were 300,000 native Hispanics and Latinos, and an estimated 80,000 illegal immigrants from Mexico in Houston.

In 1985, Harris County had about 500,000 Hispanics and Latinos. Eschbach said that, historically, this population resided in specific neighborhoods of Houston, such as Denver Harbor, the Houston Heights, Magnolia Park, and the Northside. Between 1985 and 2005, the county's Hispanic population tripled, with Hispanics and Latinos making up about 40% of the county's residents. In most communities inside and outside Beltway 8, Hispanics and Latinos became the predominant ethnic group. Some communities in Greater Houston which do not have Hispanics or Latinos as the predominant ethnic group include expensive, predominantly non-Hispanic white communities such as Memorial, Uptown, and West University Place; and historically African-American neighborhoods located south and northeast of Downtown Houston. Eschbach said, "But even these core black and white neighborhoods are experiencing Hispanic inroads. Today, Hispanics live everywhere."

At the publication of the 2020 census, this Hispanic and Latino American population increased to 44% of the city's population.

Black and African Americans 

Historically, the city of Houston had a significant African American population, as this area of the state developed cotton plantation agriculture that was dependent on enslaved laborers. In 2020, its Black and African American population constituted 22.1% of the population. Thousands of enslaved African Americans lived near the city before the American Civil War. Many of them worked on sugar and cotton plantations. Slaves held in the city primarily worked in domestic household and artisan jobs. In 1860 forty-nine percent of the city's population was made up of enslaved people of color. In 1860 nearby Fort Bend County had a population with twice as many black slaves as white residents; it was one of six majority-black counties statewide.

From the 1870s to the 1890s, black people made up almost 40% of Houston's population. Before being effectively disfranchised by the state legislature imposing payment of a poll tax in 1902, they were politically active and strongly supported Republican Party candidates. After disfranchisement, the state legislature established legal segregation and Jim Crow. Between 1910 and 1970, the black population of Houston ranged from 21% to 32.7%. They were virtually without political representation until after 1965 and passage of the federal Voting Rights Act, which enforced their constitutional rights of suffrage. Many blacks left Houston for the West Coast during and after World War II in the Great Migration, as jobs increased rapidly in the defense industry on that coast and social conditions were better.