[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vauquelin-class destroyer

5° to +80° and the guns had a maximum effective range of . Firing  projectiles at a muzzle velocity of  the guns had a rate of fire of 20 rounds per minute. In addition there were two twin mounts for Hotchkiss Mitrailleuse de  CA Modèle 1929 AA machine guns on the forecastle deck abreast the bridge.

The ships carried two above-water twin mounts for  torpedo tubes, one pair on each broadside between each pair of funnels as well as one triple mount aft of the rear pair of funnels able to traverse to both sides. Their Mle 1923DT torpedoes had a  TNT warhead and could be set for a speed of  with a range of  or  for . A pair of depth charge chutes were built into their stern; these housed a total of sixteen  depth charges, with eight more in reserve. They were also fitted with a pair of depth-charge throwers, one on each broadside abreast the aft funnels, for which they carried a dozen  depth charges. The ships could be fitted with rails to drop forty  Breguet B4 mines. With a de-emphasis on anti-submarine warfare for the s, the depth-charge throwers were removed in 1936 and more 200-kilogram depth charges were carried in their place.

Fire control for the main guns was provided by a Mle 1929 electro-mechanical fire-control computer that used data provided by a  SOM B.1926 coincidence rangefinder atop the bridge. The computer could not compensate for the ships' motions and the guns could only be fired accurately when the ships were level. The rangefinder was replaced by a  OPL Mle E.1930 stereoscopic rangefinder in 1934 and the SOM rangefinder was repositioned to the base of the mainmast. The following year, Cassard was the test ship for a new  OPL E.1935 rangefinder in a two-man turret and an auxiliary Mle 1919 fire-control computer in the base of the turret. With the trial being successful, the new rangefinder in its turret replaced the E.1930 rangefinder in the rest of the Vauquelins in 1935–1936, although the latter was transferred to a new turret built around the base of the mainmast.

Wartime modifications
The  reconsidered its anti-submarine warfare tactics after the war began in September and intended to reinstate the depth-charge throwers, although these were an older model than the one previously installed. Depth-charge stowage now consisted of 24 heavy depth charges and 16 of the 100-kilogram ones for those ships that received the throwers. There was a shortage of them and only , Vauquelin and  received them beginning in May 1940. As an interim measure, a pair of rails were installed on the stern for  depth charges. Each rail could accommodate three depth charges and ten more were stored in the magazine. The Vauquelin-class ships were allocated British Alpha 128 Asdic systems in April 1940, although they were slowly installed on the surviving ships between May and the end of 1941; Chevalier Paul did not receive one before her loss in June 1941.

In May 1940, Vauquelin and Kersaint received a pair of twin-gun 37-millimeter mounts; the former lost all of her 37-millimeter guns in exchange while the latter retained a pair of her single mounts. Beginning in 1941 the Vauquelins had their anti-aircraft armament augmented, although shortages mean that most of the ships differed from each other. In general, the mainmast and the auxiliary fire-control position was replaced by a platform for a single 37-millimeter twin-gun mount and two of the single 37-millimeter mounts were transferred to the platform while the other two single mounts were removed. In addition each ship received two or four Browning 13.2-millimeter AA machine guns. Chevalier Pauls refit in January 1941 was the first to be completed and she had four 37-millimeter guns in a twin-gun mount and two singles, two single mounts for the Brownings and her original four Hotchkiss machine guns in a pair of twin-gun mounts. This was also the configuration for Tartu and Cassard. Vauquelin kept her two twin-gun 37-millimeter mounts and her original Hotchkiss mounts, and added three single Brownings. Kersaint reverted to her four original single 37-millimeter mounts, but exchanged her Hotchkiss guns for four single Brownings and also received three  Hotchkiss Modèle 1925 AA guns in single mounts.

Ships

Service
 
Kersaint, Vauquelin, and Maillé Brézé were initially assigned to the 2nd Squadron (), based in Brest while the other three were sent to the 1st Squadron () in Toulon. All six ships were consolidated in the 1st Squadron in October 1934. After the start of the Spanish Civil War in July 1936, Kersaint and Cassard were among the ships assigned to evacuate French citizens from Spain and later to patrol the surveillance zones assigned to France. After September most of the  and destroyers in the Mediterranean were assigned these tasks on a monthly rotation as part of the non-intervention policy.