[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Randy Hultgren

Hultgren and two other Members of Congress. The law simplifies reporting requirements for community banks. “The role of smaller financial institutions is especially important in more rural areas, such as my district, where larger banks tend to not have as many branches”, Hultgren said.

Corporations

Hultgren was a vocal opponent of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which created new financial regulations after the financial crisis. He called Dodd-Frank "flawed" and introduced Republican-backed legislation to end it. Hultgren supported the Financial CHOICE Act, another Republican-backed bill to dismantle Dodd-Frank; the legislation would have eliminated the Treasury Department's Office of Financial Research, killed the Volcker Rule (which bars certain banks from particular risky trades); killed the Orderly Liquidation Authority (which allows the federal government to shut down failing banks that post a systemic risk to the economy); and removed a provision imposing greater oversight on "systemically important financial institutions." Hultgren introduced the Swaps Regulatory Improvement Act into the House in March 2013; the bill would have rolled back Dodd-Frank regulations and expand banks' authority to use swaps to hedging risk. The bill passed the House but not the Senate, and did not become law.

Hultgren was a strong advocate of municipal finance and tax-exempt municipal bonds. In 2013 he joined with fellow U.S. Representative Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) in securing the signatures of 137 House Republicans and Democrats in a letter urging congressional leaders to "reject any proposal to cap or eliminate the deduction on tax-exempt municipal bonds used to finance the vast majority of infrastructure projects in America’s communities." The two circulated a similar letter in 2015 and formed the Municipal Finance Caucus in 2016.

International issues

Immigration 
"Immigration is a foundational part of who we are...to be a place of refuge," Hultgren told the Chicago Tribune in September 2017. "I understand that there are bad actors and terrorists out there ... but I don't want to shut off opportunity for people who really need refuge."

In December 2015, citing religious freedom, Hultgren criticized presidential candidate Donald Trump's proposal to ban Muslims from entering the U.S. “Singling out any faith community for the actions of extremists is not conservative, it is hostile to our founding,” he said.

Human rights in China
In September 2017 Hultgren hosted a screening of Chinese dissident artist Ai Weiwei's film Human Flow, about the refugee crisis in 23 countries. The Chicago Tribune wrote that Hultgren had "taken up the cause of Zhu Yufu, a Chinese dissident poet jailed for publishing pro-democracy poetry."

On February 14, 2018, Hultgren delivered a statement on the House floor wishing a happy birthday to Zhu Yufu, a prisoner of conscience in China, and calling on Chinese authorities to release him from detention. Hultgren had “adopted” Zhu Yufu to highlight his plight as part of the Defending Freedoms Project, a joint effort by the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), and Amnesty International USA. The next day the Lantos Commission, which Hultgren co-chaired, hosted a hearing on prisoners of conscience.

Russia
Hultgren supported H.R. 3364, the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, which became law in August 2017. It authorized sanctions against Iran, North Korea, and Russia. Hultgren also welcomed the indictment in February 2018 of 13 Russian nationals and three Russian entities. In March 2018 he expressed approval of Congressional sanctions on “Russian individuals and entities” who had engaged in “long-running, coordinated and malicious attempts to influence and disrupt our American elections and political system.” He also welcomed the Trump administration's implementation of the sanctions. “These actions send a clear message that our electoral system is not to be tampered with, and the United States will respond when we or our allies are attacked”, Hultgren said.

Social issues

Abortion 
Hultgren was identified by Vote Smart as anti-abortion. He favored a prohibition on embryonic stem cell research.

Sex education
Hultgren sponsored legislation to allocate $110 million per year in federal grants for abstinence education in schools.

LGBT rights 
Hultgren opposed same-sex marriage. He voted in favor of the Defense of Marriage Act. In 2015, Hultgren cosponsored a resolution to amend the Constitution to ban same-sex marriage.

Basic research 

Hultgren was described by the American Physical Society as an "outspoken advocate for basic scientific research and STEM education." According to NBC Chicago, "the conservative Republican has carved a reputation as a pro-science, pro-STEM education supporter."