[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# National Crime Records Bureau

ce in 1955 under the administrative control of Intelligence Bureau at Delhi. It was relocated to Calcutta (now Kolkata) in 1956. The administrative control of CFPB  shifted to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 1973, and since July, 1986, this has been under the administrative control of NCRB.

Objectives 
 To maintain Finger Print record slips of the accused person convicted in various Acts. 
 To conduct search relating to unidentified Interstate arrested/suspected persons received from police stations and other investigating agencies in India.
 To maintain the fingerprints of international criminals and red corner notices sent by Interpol and to conduct search on references received from foreign countries, through Interpol.
 To undertake examination of questioned finger impressions on documents received   from Central Government Departments/ Undertakings/Courts of law.
 To impart training in Fingerprint Science to State/Central Police personnel and also to personnel from foreign countries under `Technical Co- Operation Scheme' (TCS) of Colombo Plan, 'Special Commonwealth African Assistance Plan' (SCAAP) and `International Technical and Economic Co-Operation' (ITEC).
 To co-ordinate the work of the State Finger Print Bureaux and give necessary guidance in all matters relating to Fingerprint Science.
 To conduct the All India Conference of Directors of Finger Print Bureaux.
 To conduct All India Board Examination annually for accrediting Finger Print Experts.
 To conduct competition in Finger Print science at the All India Police Duty Meet held annually.

CFPB Evolution

Activities

1.   Automated Finger Print Identification System (AFIS) 
The CFPB has pioneered the automation of fingerprints through its Automated Finger Print Identification System (AFIS) in 1992. This software was jointly developed by NCRB and CMC Ltd. and named as "Fingerprint Analysis & Criminal Tracing System" (FACTS). Currently CFPB is maintaining 10,93,408 Ten Digit Finger Print Record slips of convicted and arrested persons

These Finger Print Slips (Record) and Finger Print Slips (Search) are received from the Finger Print Bureaux of various States/Union Territories and also from the police stations. 

During the calendar 2016, in addition to the above, 151 Search references were also received from Interpol Division of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), New Delhi and 1620 slips for record.

CFPB receives number of finger print document cases, from Government departments, courts of law, banks, post offices, investigation agencies etc. for expert opinion.

2.  All India Board Examination of Finger Print Experts 
The All India Board Examination is conducted every year at C.F.P.B. The Board, consists of Director, CFPB as chairman and two technical heads of the State F.P.Bx. as members. CFPB make all arrangements for conducting theory, practical & viva-voce of this examination.

The successful candidates are awarded certificates. Those who secure 1st, 2nd and 3rd places a Cash prize also.

The Aziz ul Haque rolling trophy is also awarded to the topper of the AIBE.

Passing this examination is mandatory to become Finger Print Expert who is competent to give evidence in the Court of Law.

3. Training 
Each year CFPB New Delhi conducts around 5 to 6 training programmes of one week duration for Indian Police Officers in Finger Print Science. Kolkata Unit of CFPB is conducting 18 weeks duration Proficiency course in Finger Print Science twice a year. During the last four years, 266 Indian Police Officers are trained.

Besides CFPB/NCRB also conducts two courses of 12 weeks duration and Four Courses of 8 Weeks duration for Foreign Police Officers under Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) and Special Commonwealth African Assistance Programme (SCAAP) of Ministry of External Affairs. Around 75 foreign officers are being trained every year under this program.  During the last four years, 270 foreign police officers are trained.

Foreign Trainees of 25th Advanced course on IT in Law Enforcement & 21st Advanced Fingerprint Science & IT from (2nd January to 24th March 2017) with Director Dr Ish Kumar and other senior officers of NCRB

4. Publication 
CFPB also compiles data collected from Finger Print Bureaux of States/UT on standard Annual Statistics Report format, and publishes the -Finger Print in India since 1997. This is the principal resource document for all concerned.