[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Shanghai Campaign

e able to concentrate their force in the city.  The attacking army was well aware of this situation and adjusted their tactic once again:  the 23rd Army of the communist VII Corps and the 25th Army of the communist VIII Corps were assigned to help the communist IX Corps and X Corps to take the city.

Third stage 
The assault on the city begun at the night of May 23, 1949 when the communist 29th Army took the high ground in the southern suburb under the cover of darkness, while the communist 28th Army penetrated to Wusong and shelled the pier.  On May 24, 1949, the communist 20th Army took Pudong and the communist 27th Army took the train station at Xujiahui and Hongqiao.  The nationalist commander-in-chief, Tang Enbo already boarded naval ships on May 18, 1949, realized the inevitable and in order to strengthen the defense around the pier at Wusong,  ordered the surviving 6th Division of the nationalist 75th Army at Gaoqiao to withdraw to Yuepu, and the nationalist units north of Suzhou Creek to withdraw to Wusong, for the preparation to withdraw via sea.

Under the cover of darkness, the communist 23rd Army and the 27th Army penetrated the city from Xujiahui and Longhua respectively while the communist 20th Army crossed the Huangpu River at Gaochangmiao (高昌庙) and by the dawn of May 25, 1949, everything south of the Suzhou Creek was firmly under the communist control.  The communist's offensive continued during the day with the communist 26th Army took Dachang and Jiangwan, and the communist 25th Army and the 29th Army took Wusong and Baoshan, while the communist 28th Army and the 33rd Army took Yanghang.  At night, the communist 27th Army, 23rd Army and a portion of the 20th Army crossed the Suzhou Creek under the cover of darkness, and regions north of the creek fell into the attackers' hands.  The deputy commander of the Shanghai defense, the commander of the Shanghai garrison, General Liu Changyi (刘昌义) was forced to surrender.

At the night of May 25, 1949, the communist 31st Army took Gaoqiao with the help of the communist 30th Army after fierce battle, and by the noon of May 26, 1949, the last defense in Pudong was wiped out.  By May 27, 1949, the city had fallen into the communist control.  Soon afterward, the communist 25th Army launched its assault on Chongming Island and badly mauled the defending force, and by June 2, 1949, the campaign had ended with the communist victory completed.

Outcome 
The campaign had cost the city's defenders heavily.  50,000 defenders including the nationalist commander-in-chief Tang Enbo managed to escape via sea, but the entire 37th Army, the 51st Army and the 5 Traffic Police Divisions were annihilated, while the nationalist 12th Army, 21st Army, 52nd Army, 75th Army, and the 123rd Army were badly mauled.  Total nationalist casualties numbered more than 153,000.  In addition to the city, more than 1,370 artillery pieces of various caliber, 1,161 automobiles, 11 naval vessels and 119 tanks and armored vehicles were captured intact.  Although the nationalists attempted to completely destroy the city, the communists nonetheless managed to take the city relatively intact due to the local populace's strong opposition to their intended scorched earth policy.

The nationalists had committed a serious blunder before the campaign had even begun in that for political and psychological propaganda reasons, they had refused to evacuate the city. The local populace was not allowed by the defenders to leave the city to surrender to the attackers either and thus when the battle began, there were not enough transportation assets to evacuate everyone so the stranded populace felt helpless and abandoned.

As the nationalists attempted to leave nothing behind for the communists by trying to destroy the city and transfer its wealth, such actions enraged the local populace because they threatened necessities essential to their survival. Had the nationalists’ plan succeeded, the stranded local populace that was already ravaged by the fierce battle would be left in even greater destitution after the campaign.  Like the general populace elsewhere in China, the stranded local populace in Shanghai was already alienated by the mistakes nationalists made earlier, such as corruption, but at least they were not unanimously against the nationalists regime, at least not yet.