[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gadi Eizenkot

binet in April 2016. The plan involves a variety of issues which such as force buildup to a range of threats, strengthening and developing the IDF's maneuvering capabilities, eliminating redundant arrays and the constructing a cyber command. At the heart of multi-year plan stands "The IDF Strategy".

An essential element relates to the purpose of ending the conflict in the shortest time. "The IDF Strategy" attempts to achieve this response by changing the pattern of the use of force utilizing an immediate and simultaneous attack that combines maneuver and fire. "The IDF Strategy" also includes the strategic concept of campaigns between the wars (CBW), in which the IDF operate covertly in order to preserve and enhance the achievements of the previous campaigns, to weaken the enemy and to postpone the next conflict. 
In August 2016 Eizenkot was awarded with the Commander of the Legion of Merit by general Joseph Dunford. The award was given due to Eizenkot's "exceptionally meritorious service as chief of the General Staff of the IDF" and his "contribution to the strategic cooperation between the United States and Israel will have a lasting effect on both countries".

Political views
Eisenkot believes in a country whose vision reflects national-Jewish values. At the same time, he believes that the state must maintain equal rights for all its citizens regardless of religion, nationality, race and gender. 

Eisenkot believes in separating from the Palestinians (to a two state solution) in order to avoid a bi-national state and to maintain a Jewish-democratic state, with permanent conservation of the Jordan Valley and the settlement blocs. In the Gaza Strip, Eisenkot seeks a long-term cease-fire agreement, the return of captives, a complete demobilization of the ability to launch missiles and rockets, and under these conditions he will agree to rehabilitation measures for the Gaza Strip that include the opening of a seaport.

From an overall security perspective, he sees importance in promoting an active and uncompromising security policy to advance security interests, while demonstrating security power, in order to continue to erode enemy capabilities and deter hostile elements who have not yet come to terms with the existence of the State of Israel.

Eisenkot believes that Israel's enemies are not an existential threats to the State of Israel, but domestic polarization is. Therefore, he claims that the people of Israel must stop the campaign of boycotting each other in order to find lines of connection between political camps, and not let a distancer and a divider lead the people of Israel.

Eisenkot demands the promotion of reforms that will strengthen the separation of powers.

Awards and decorations

References

External links
 
 Gadi Eisenkot and Gabi Siboni, Guidelines for Israel's National Security Strategy , The Washington Institute for Near East Policy, October 2019.
 Gadi Eisenkot and Gabi Siboni, The Campaign Between Wars: How Israel Rethought Its Strategy to Counter Iran’s Malign Regional Influence, The Washington Institute for Near East Policy, 4 September 2019.
 Thirteen Years Since the Hezbollah-Israel War, The Washington Institute for Near East Policy, 8 July 2019.

1960 births
Living people
Israeli generals
People from Eilat
People from Tiberias
Israeli people of Moroccan-Jewish descent
University of Haifa alumni
Tel Aviv University alumni
Commanders of the Legion of Merit
Chiefs of the General Staff (Israel)