[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ashkan Dejagah

family and relatives." Zwanziger added that Dejagah was now prepared to play in the home tie against Israel if selected.

Seven years later, in April 2014, Dejagah spoke on the matter, saying, "This was a long time ago; it is in the past. Yes, it helped me grow up but now I only look to the future."

In 2009, Dejagah won the 2009 UEFA Euro U-21s with Germany and scored a goal in the group stages against Finland.

Iran

It had been suggested that Dejagah might play for Iran national team at the international level rather than Germany, but he said he never really considered it an option. Having played for Germany at the age of 21, he was originally no longer eligible to play for Iran. However, FIFA rule changes in July 2009 meant that he could play for Iran. In late December, Iran's coach Afshin Ghotbi approached Dejagah about playing for Iran at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup in Qatar, but he declined because he wanted to focus on playing first team football with his club VfL Wolfsburg instead.

On 21 September 2011, he was invited to the Iran national team by Carlos Queiroz. He scored twice on his debut for Iran against Qatar on 29 February 2012 in a World Cup qualifier. Upon qualification to the 2014 World Cup, his next international goals came on 15 and 19 November in Asian Cup qualifying wins over Thailand and Lebanon, sealing Iran's place in the 2015 Asian Cup as well. Dejagah was named in Iran's 2014 FIFA World Cup squad by Carlos Queiroz. He started for Iran in their opening match against Nigeria, but was substituted in the 73rd minute by Alireza Jahanbakhsh. He also played 85 and 68 minutes in the next matches against Argentina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, respectively. He was called into Iran's 2015 AFC Asian Cup squad on 30 December 2014 by Carlos Queiroz.

On 12 November 2015 after captain Andranik Teymourian was suspended, Dejagah captained the national team for the first time in his career and also scored in a 3–1 victory against Turkmenistan.

He was named in Iran's squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia but did not feature in any matches as Iran was eliminated in the group stage.

On 26 December 2018, Dejagah was selected for Iranian squad for 2019 AFC Asian Cup. He started Iran's first match of the tournament and scored the second goal in a 5–0 win Yemen.

Personal life
During his time with Fulham, Dejagah resided in London, England, with wife and daughters whose names are inscribed on the external surfaces of his Nike Mercurial boots. He has tattoos with Berlin on one arm and Tehran on the other, and the phrase, "Never forget where you're from" on his neck. His wife is Azerbaijani and was raised in Baku.

In May 2014, Dejagah donated his DNA profile for scientific research on sports-related injuries and training.

Career statistics

Club

International
Statistics accurate as of match played 10 September 2019.

Scores and results list Iran's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Dejagah goal.

Honours

VfL Wolfsburg
Bundesliga: 2008–09

Tractor
Hazfi Cup: 2019–20

Germany U21
UEFA European Under-21 Football Championship: 2009

Individual
 AFC Asian Cup Team of the Tournament: 2019

See also
German-Iranians

References

External links

1986 births
Living people
Footballers from Tehran
Iranian men's footballers
Iranian expatriate men's footballers
Iran men's international footballers
Naturalized citizens of Germany
German expatriate sportspeople in England
German men's footballers
German expatriate men's footballers
Germany men's youth international footballers
Germany men's under-21 international footballers
Men's association football wingers
Hertha BSC II players
Hertha BSC players
VfL Wolfsburg players
VfL Wolfsburg II players
Fulham F.C. players
Al-Arabi SC (Qatar) players
Nottingham Forest F.C. players
Tractor S.C. players
Al Shahaniya SC players
Oberliga (football) players
Regionalliga players
Bundesliga players
Premier League players
Qatar Stars League players
English Football League players
Persian Gulf Pro League players
Qatari Second Division players
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Qatar
2014 FIFA World Cup players
2015 AFC Asian Cup players
Iranian emigrants to Germany
Iranian expatriate sportspeople in England
Iranian expatriate sportspeople in Germany
Iranian expatriate sportspeople in Qatar
2018 FIFA World Cup players
Sportspeople of Iranian descent
2019 AFC Asian Cup players