[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dennis Hood

system, as he did not feel the Advertising Standards Board had properly screened out materials of "poor taste," including a liquor advertisement showing the exposed buttocks of three adult men. He also suggested DVDs of adult films and other restricted content be required to come in plain packaging.

Hood is also highly supportive of increased penalties for drug use. In 2007, he suggested tougher controls on the growing and possession of cannabis. Possession of commercial quantities ($40,000), he pointed out, would only incur a small fine (with a maximum of $500), which was an insufficient disincentive. He also rejected the idea of medical marijuana, saying the harm outweighs the therapeutic benefits. In 2010, he requested on-the-spot fines for users of heroin, methamphetamines, cocaine, and ecstasy. He opposed the use of drugs while driving and in public, saying it is a threat to the welfare of residents, businesses, and the individuals themselves. Apart from increased fines, Hood also suggested pragmatic drug testing devices at hotels and nightclubs. In 2009, Hood proposed laws to adopt this stance by setting minimum, as opposed to maximum, sentences, which are rarely implemented by judges. In 2013, he expressed an interest in dramatically increasing fines for growing marijuana, with maximum penalties for up to five plants increasing from $100 to $2,000 and up to 19 plants from $2,000 to $10,000. He felt that this would be an effective deterrent. In 2014, he encouraged people to seek out the "less harmful" alternatives available rather than use marijuana.

Health
In 2011, Hood opposed the voluntary euthanasia legislation introduced by Steph Key, claiming it failed to provide sufficient corroborative evidence of the desire for suicide apart from the killer as the sole witness, and that the elderly and dying could be pressured into suicide if they felt that they became a burden on their family. In 2021, he reasserted this belief and suggested improving palliative care instead. He also rejected legislation permitting the cloning of human embryos on the grounds of technology already having the ability to create embryonic stem cells without using human embryos and eggs, thereby making the legislation unnecessary.

Family
Another of Hood's strong stances is opposition to both same-sex marriage and same-sex parenting. In 2011, he stated that legalising either would take away a child's right to having heterosexual parents. He reaffirmed both of these beliefs again in 2014 and in 2016 proposed an amendment allowing medical professionals to refuse reproductive assistance to same-sex couples and single people. Relatedly, Hood encourages the practice of adoption for heterosexual parents  and has criticised abortion rates, particularly when considering low fertility rates. In 2021, he again voted against the decriminalisation of abortion.

In 2008, Hood advocated for mandatory parental consent for children to get a body piercing and worked with John Rau to outlaw scarification for minors. Hood is a supporter of parents doling out non-sexual corporal punishment, namely spanking, to their children. To fight child abuse, he suggested pragmatic checks by agencies other than the Department of Human Services, which had been garnering dissatisfaction from South Australians at the time. In 2011, he submitted a bill that allowed parents more access to and control over their child's Facebook activity.

Misc
In 2007, Hood rejected the scrapping of parliamentary prayer, pointing out that the practice dated back to the Westminster system. He stated that these periods were useful for quiet introspection. In 2009, he rejected the Greens' call to name and shame religious schools that discriminate based on sexual orientation on their web site.

In 2007, Hood called for a ban of nudist beaches, citing his concern that children could be inadvertently exposed. In 2009, he promoted policies permitting the right to remove dangerous, sick and dying trees, and endorsed weekly garbage collection, which the Greens party strongly opposed. In 2011, he established a parliamentary committee to evaluate the environmental, economic, and social impacts of establishing marine parks off the coast of South Australia. He also supported the redevelopment of the Adelaide Oval with some amendments.

Following the 2010 election, Hood worked with other politicians to improve funding for mental healthcare, disability support, child protection, and public housing.

Family and personal life
In 2006, Hood's wife Lisa gave birth to their daughter. He suffers from ankylosing spondylitis. Though his parents were not religious, Hood converted to Christianity at 19 and continues to attend church regularly.

Notes

External links