[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Dermot O'Hurley

s are said to have been wrought at his gravesite, which has remained a site of pilgrimage ever since.

Legacy
As word of his execution spread, O'Hurley was immediately revered as a martyr by Catholics throughout Europe. Several accounts of his life and death were printed and reached a wide audience.

Exiled English Recusant poet Richard Verstegan wrote a detailed Renaissance Latin account of Archbishop O'Hurley's martyrdom in the volume Theatrum crudelitatum Hæreticorum nostri temporis ("Theatre of the Cruelties of the Heretics of our Time"), which was published at Antwerp, in the Spanish Netherlands in 1587. Historian J.J. Meagher has written of Verstegan, "He enhanced his account with an engraving which was a composite representation of the three Irish martyrs, Dermot O'Hurley, Patrick O'Healy, and Conn O'Rourke. The printed word helped considerably to propagate and preserve the reputation of martyrdom. There were at least eight editions of Verstegan's Theatrum up to 1607, and these contributed in no small way to maintaining the fama martyrii overseas. Moreover, John Bridgewater, an English priest, reprinted word for word Verstegan's account of the martyrdom in 1588."

Detailed accounts of Archbishop O'Hurley's life and death were also written and published by Philip O'Sullivan Beare, David Rothe, Luke Wadding, Richard Stanihurst, Anthony Bruodin, John Lynch, John Coppinger, and John Mullin.

Archbishop Adam Loftus, through his daughter Anne Loftus, who married Sir Henry Colley, was the ancestor of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, who was baptized in 1767 by a Church of Ireland clergyman at St. Kevin's Church in Camden Row. It was ultimately the Duke of Wellington who, as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in 1829, forced a bill granting Catholic Emancipation in the British Isles through Parliament and persuaded a highly reluctant King George IV to grudgingly grant the bill Royal Assent. Sir Henry Wallop, on the other hand, is the ancestor of every subsequent Earl of Portsmouth. On 20 June 1584, the same day as O'Hurley's execution, the Archbishop's torturer, Edward Waterhouse, was knighted by Sir John Perrot inside Christ Church Cathedral, Dublin, officially because Waterhouse, "dispended yearly more than a thousand marks."

Also following Catholic Emancipation in 1829, interest in Archbishop O'Hurley was rekindled by the republication of Bishop David Rothe's Analecta Sancta and Philip O'Sullivan Beare's Historiae Catholicae Iberniae Compendium. According to J.J. Meagher, "The reawakened reputation of martyrdom was further strengthened in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries by the historical works and critical editions of manuscripts published by Patrick F. Moran and others."

In 1904, the hierarchy of the Catholic Church in Ireland began an investigation into Archbishop O'Hurley's life and death, as well as those of the other Irish Catholic Martyrs. One of the most valuable resources was found to be the documents and letters written by the men, like Wallop and Loftus, who tortured and executed him and which had been examined in the Public Record Office in London. In response, Archbishop O'Hurley, whose life and martyrdom had been found to be one of the most meticulously documented and was therefore seen as one of the most promising Causes for Roman Catholic Sainthood, was declared a Servant of God.

In the 12 February 1915 Apostolic decree In Hibernia, heroum nutrice, Pope Benedict XV formally authorized the introduction of Archbishop O'Hurley's Cause for Roman Catholic Sainthood. During a further Apostolic Process held at Dublin between 1917 and 1930, the evidence surrounding 260 alleged cases for martyrdom were further investigated, after which the findings were again submitted to the Holy See.

On 27 September 1992, O'Hurley was beatified by Pope John Paul II, alongside 16 other Irish martyrs. Following his Beatification, a memorial plaque was installed by the Dublin City Council at St Kevin's Churchyard, at the insistence of local activist James O'Doherty.

Folklore
 According to Burke's 1879 History of the Irish Lord Chancellors, "Multitudes of pilgrims for three centuries flocked to his tomb, which the fancy, perhaps the superstition, of the people clothed with many legends." For example, in local Irish folklore, ghost stories about passersby on dark and stormy nights seeing Archbishop Dermot O'Hurley offering the Tridentine Mass in black Requiem vestments upon a makeshift altar over his grave in St. Kevin's churchyard are commonly told. It is said, when the Archbishop reaches the moment of Transubstantiation and the Raising of the Host, that both O'Hurley and the altar disappear and only darkness remains.