[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Architecture of Hungary

rty houses, blocks, housing estates). This era has its architectural values. These include: Zoltán Farkasdy's College of Applied Arts, György Jánossy's Water tower of Szent István University in Gödöllő, and Gyula Rimanóczy's "R" building of the BME of Budapest University of Technology and Economics.

The new generation of architects growing up in the special socio-economic conditions of the period after the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 of university students, young instructors, practicing architects, as contemporaries, lived together the continuously changing events of socio, economic and technical, artistic, architectural events, dense events. Thus they became together "a representative of the Hungarian creative architecture generation" of the end of the century, thus becoming a bridge between the previous pioneers (and less pioneers) and the new ones coming after them.

The period stretches from 1956 to the end of the 20th century, which is a time for marked changes, so to speak, drastic changes. In social policy, dictatorial arbitrariness, inspiring, but lost revolution, retaliation, and the escalating crisis phenomena of the one-party, top-controlled socio-economic formation, political system change, a faltering democracy, leading to today's globalisation problems.

In the meantime, the age of technical and technological changes defining the architecture of the era was also the age. The large-scale industrialisation of the nationalised construction industry, the conversion from brick construction to concrete construction, prefabrication, metal and light construction, the change in structure-type, with an astonishing expansion of the range of building materials to be used, from the brick barrel to the house and tower crane technology.

The process of changing the architectural and architectural ideal is no smaller: the architectural spirit started from the Eastern perspective to the traces and experiences of the early Hungarian avant-garde, while instructors and disciples, together with young practitioners, learned the Bauhaus principles, sucked into the idea of functionality, structure, modern material and form formation, the spirit of collectivism. Finding again the spiritual values and protection of the earlier ages. The interpretation of architecture has widened to environmental culture, environmental protection, urban science, construction and urban economy, construction, construction policy, spatial information.

But the equipment and tools of the architect have also changed, from the logarithe and tusk driver, to the always-flapping graphos, the dredging pens to computer software, façades and models, to the visual image of the World Wide Web video.

As a result of the above, there was an open interest in modern forms in the 1960s, the representative buildings of the era industrial buildings, hospitals, hotels and office buildings (Zoltán Farkasdy, József Finta, Zoltán Gulyás, György Jánossy, Károly Jurcsik, Péter Molnár, etc.).

The design and construction of new urban areas (housing estates) under mass housing programmes has transformed urban planning and urban architecture into an independent urban area. Housing units built from pre-fabricated elements in the era still play a crucial role in meeting social expectations (housing), and in the environment culture and social sociological processes that are slowly changing.

Organic architecture
Imre Makovecz and György Csete's Organic architecture were separated from the official forms.

See also

List of Hungarian architects