[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rafael Peralta

Panetta as Secretary of Defense, Hunter hoped he would be more receptive to the new evidence. However, in February 2014 Hagel announced that Peralta's Medal of Honor nomination would not be reconsidered. In June 2015 Peralta's mother, Rosa Maria, received the Navy Cross at a Camp Pendleton ceremony.

In February 2017, Hunter renewed his efforts to have Peralta' Navy Cross upgraded, by petitioning Secretary of Defense James Mattis.

Awards and honors
Peralta's awards include:

Navy Cross citation

for service as set forth in the following
CITATION:

Legacy
On April 24, 2006, San Diego Police Department Chief of Police William Lansdowne posthumously awarded Sgt. Peralta the honorary title of San Diego police officer for his heroism in Iraq. Peralta had long wanted to be a San Diego police officer, and the badge was presented to his mother.

On September 21, 2007, the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit command-post building 2533 at Camp Hansen, Okinawa was renamed Peralta Hall in his honor.
The History Channel produced a one-hour documentary in Spanish and English about Peralta, Act of Honor, which appeared on THC Classroom.

With Peralta's death benefit, his mother purchased a home in Chula Vista. Inspired by his older brother's actions, Rafael's brother Ricardo also enlisted in the Marine Corps and graduated from the School of Infantry in 2010. He was honorably discharged in January 2014, after serving in Afghanistan.

Following legislative action by Congressman Hunter, Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus announced on February 16, 2012, that one of several new Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyers would be named , According to Peralta's mother, the destroyer will carry his Navy Cross. In Quantico, Virginia, Peralta's rifle and the last letter he wrote will be placed on display. In July 2017, the ship bearing his name was commissioned at Naval Air Station North Island, with his mother, the ship's sponsor, and several other dignitaries aboard (Susan Davis, Kevin Faulconer, Duncan Hunter, Darrell Issa, and Scott Peters).

In November 2017, a brick with his name was placed in front of the Veteran Resource Center at Southwestern College, where he had previously gone to attend its police academy.

See also

Hispanics in the United States Marine Corps

References

External links

 by The History Channel
Marine Sgt. Rafael Peralta, Fallen Heroes Memorial.
Personal Photos of Sgt. Peralta

1979 births
2004 deaths
United States Marine Corps personnel of the Iraq War
Recipients of the Navy Cross (United States)
United States Marine Corps non-commissioned officers
American military personnel killed in the Iraq War
Burials at Fort Rosecrans National Cemetery
Military personnel from Mexico City
Military personnel from San Diego
Mexican emigrants to the United States
Hispanic and Latino American military personnel