[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 8]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

, does not admit that perfect equality which the
purer interpretations of the Gospel inculcate, I certainly shall not
disagree with you in opinion. He that formed the human heart certainly
must be acquainted with all the passions to which it would be subject;
and if, under the immediate dispensation of Christ himself, it was found
impossible for a rich man to give his possessions to the poor, that
degree of purity will hardly be expected now, which was not found in the
origin. But here, sir, permit me to remark, how widely the principles of
genuine Christianity differ from that imaginary scheme of ideal
perfection, equally inconsistent with human affairs and human
characters, which many of its pretended friends would persuade us to
believe in; and, as comparisons sometimes throw a new and sudden light
upon a subject, give me leave to use one here, which I think bears the
closest analogy to what we are now considering. Were some physician to
arise, who, to a perfect knowledge of all preceding medical facts, had
added by a more than human skill a knowledge of the most secret
principles of the human frame, could he calculate, with an accuracy that
never was deceived, the effect of every cause that could act upon our
constitutions; and, were he inclined, as the result of all his science
and observation, to leave a rule of life that might remain unimpeached
to the latest posterity, I ask, what kind of one would he form?"

"I suppose one," said Mr Merton, "that was the most adapted to the
general circumstances of the human species, and, which observed, would
confer the greatest degree of health and vigour."

"Right," said Mr Barlow; "I ask again, whether, observing the common
luxury and intemperance of the rich, he would take his directions from
the usages of a polite table, and recommend that heterogeneous
assemblage of contrary mixtures, high seasonings, poignant sauces,
fermented and distilled poisons, which is continually breeding diseases
in their veins, as the best means of preserving or regaining health?"

"Certainly not. That were to debase his heart, and sanction abuses,
instead of reforming them."

"Would he not, then, recommend simplicity of diet, light repasts, early
slumbers, and moderate exercise in the open air, if he judged them
salutary to human nature, even though fashionable prejudice had stamped
all these particulars with the mark of extreme vulgarity?"

"Were he to act otherwise, he must forfeit all pretensions either to
honesty or skill."

"Let us then apply all this to the mind, instead of the body, and
suppose for an instant, that some legislator, either human or divine,
who comprehended all the secret springs that govern the mind, was
preparing a universal code for all mankind; must he not imitate the
physician, and deliver general truths, however unpalatable, however
repugnant to particular prejudices, since upon the observance of these
truths alone the happiness of the species must depend?"

"I think so, indeed."

"Should such a person observe, that an immoderate desire and
accumulation of riches, a love of ostentatious trifles, unnecessary
splendour in all that relates to human life, and an habitual indulgence
of sensuality, tended not only to produce evil in all around, but even
in the individual himself, who suffered the tyranny of these vices; how
would you have the legislator act? Should he be silent?"

"No, certainly; he should arraign these pernicious habitudes by every
means within his power--by precept, by example."

"Should he also observe, that riches employed in another manner, in
removing the real miseries of humanity, in cherishing, comforting, and
supporting all around, produced a contrary effect, and tended equally to
make the obliged and the obliger happy; should he conceal this great
eternal truth, or should he divulge it with all the authority he
possessed, conscious, that in whatever degree it became the rule of
human life, in the same degree would it tend to the advantage of all the
world?"

"There cannot be a doubt upon the subject."

"But, should he know, either by the spirit of prophecy, or by intuitive
penetration, that the majority of mankind would never observe these
rules to any great degree, but would be blindly precipitated by their
passions into every excess against which he so benevolently cautioned
them; should this be a reason for his withdrawing his precepts and
admonitions, or for seeming to approve what was in its own nature most
pernicious?

"As prudent would it be to pull off the bridle when we mounted an
impetuous horse, because we doubted of our power to hold him in; or to
increase his madness by the spur, when it was clearly too great before.
Thus, sir, you will perceive, that the precepts of the Christian
religion are founded upon the most perfect knowledge of the human heart,
as they furnish a continual barrier against the most destructive
passions, and th