[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Benny Sela

in solitary confinement in the National Isolation Unit, an ultra-high security six-cell wing of the prison used to house some of the most notorious criminals in Israel. He was later transferred to HaSharon Prison, near Tel Mond, and then to Nitzan Prison in Ramla, where he is currently incarcerated.

While imprisoned, Sela filed dozens of court motions every year, most of which focused on inconsequential issues and were rejected. Due to his persistent motions, he became known as a "serial appellant". The repeated motions put a burden on the authorities, as the Israel Prison Service was tasked with bringing him to each hearing and returning him to prison, a process that necessitated the presence of police and massive security due to Sela being considered a high escape risk. On August 14, 2011, the Beersheba District Court limited Sela to eight motions per year and imposed a NIS 70 fine on him for every motion rejected. Judge Shlomo Friedlander said that the decision was to prevent authorities from spending an unequal share of their resources on his appeals, which could deny other prisoners their rights.

In 2010, Sela exposed himself to a female guard during his daily walk in the prison yard, and was placed in solitary confinement.

In May 2011, Sela's mother Rivka was caught attempting to smuggle him pornographic CDs in a file she had claimed contained court documents during a court hearing.

In September 2015, Sela was suspected of raping his cellmate.

In April 2017, Sela was convicted of indecently exposing himself to a female prison employee two years earlier, and had another six months added to his sentence.

References

External links
 Fugitive serial rapist caught - Ynet
 Serial rapist escapes from court - Ynet
 Massive hunt for Israeli rapist - BBC News

1971 births
Living people
Escapees from Israeli detention
Israeli escapees
Israeli Jews
Israeli people convicted of rape
Israeli people convicted of indecent assault
People from Tel Aviv
Vexatious litigants
Israeli rapists