[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexander Pogrebinsky

t wind of the accident, the militia sealed Kyiv to prevent an exodus. Meanwhile, state leaders in the region fled in droves.

"We just started to see that everything we had been taught was not what they pretended", says Pogrebinsky, 43. "Chernobyl just showed that they didn't care about the people."

In December 1990, Pogrebinsky, his wife, and their two children used a travel visa to Paris to escape the Soviet Union. After traveling through Europe, the family arrived in New York City in January 1991, where they were granted political asylum by the U.S. Government.

In the United States 

As soon as Pogrebinsky arrived in the United States, he began exhibiting and painting.  Some of his earliest paintings dealt with religious and philosophical themes, as in "Where Is The Truth?," a painting depicting Jesus Christ before Pontius Pilate.

In the 1990s, Pogrebinsky worked largely in oils and watercolors. He has painted the portraits of many religious leaders in the United States, and has taught Art and Painting at the Cleveland Institute of Art and John Carroll University.  As in the USSR, Pogrebinsky received many commissions, and became increasingly known for his realistic portraits.  Notable among his personal works of this period is the triptych "Moon, Earth, Sun." 

In a 1998 review The Washington Post wrote: "[Pogrebinsky] is a realist painter whose specialty is portraiture in the grand European tradition, and one cannot look at his works without marveling at Pogrebinsky's skill with the brush."

A whole series of rose paintings appeared in 1998 and continues to the present day. These are some of his most successful and recognizable works.

Since immigrating to the United States, Pogrebinsky has shown his work across the country and around the world. In 2008, Pogrebinsky's work was displayed at the Ukrainian Embassy to the United States, in Washington D.C.

In 2011 Pogrebinsky opened a Russian restaurant, Bear, in New York City.  The restaurant prominently displayed his artwork in the main dining room.

Pogrebinsky's wife Lena currently works for the Cleveland Metropolitan School District, where she has taught high school mathematics at Lincoln-West High School, Whitney M. Young Gifted & Talented Leadership Academy and James Ford Rhodes High School.

References

External links 
Alexander Pogrebinsky Official Site

20th-century American painters
American male painters
21st-century American painters
21st-century American male artists
1951 births
Living people
20th-century American male artists