[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Archives of Sweden

The National Archives of Sweden (Swedish: Riksarkivet, RA) is the official archive of the Swedish government and is responsible for the management of records from Sweden's public authorities.  Although the archives functions primarily as the government archive, it also preserves some documents from private individuals and non-public organizations.  The mission of the archives is to collect and preserve records for future generations.

Organization 
The National Archives of Sweden is a state administrative authority, organized under the Ministry of Culture.  The head of The National Archives, known as the Riksarkivarie in Swedish, works alongside of staff responsible for strategic issues, and overall coordination and development.  The position is currently held by Karin Åström Iko.

The structure of the organization is divided into five departments: the Regional Department, National Department, Department of Conservation and Digital Infrastructure, Department of Public Information Management, and Administrative Department.  The Regional Department includes Regional Archives (Landsarkiven) located in seven cities: Gothenburg, Härnösand, Lund, Uppsala, Vadsterna, Visby, and Östersund.  The National Department includes the main branch Marieburg in Stockholm, Arninge located just north of Stockholm, and other archives that have been incorporated into the National Archives, including the Military Archives and the Heraldry Board.

History
The National Archives of Sweden is one of the oldest public authorities in Sweden, with roots that can be traced back to the Middle Ages.  Beginning under King Gustav Vasa, an archive was created from previously collected older documents, some documents that were received, and documents drawn up in the Royal Office.  On October 18, 1618 Axel Oxenstierna, the Lord High Chancellor (Rikskansler) of the Privy Council, issued a Chancellor's Order to appoint a special secretary, along with two writers, to be responsible for the archive, thus creating the National Archives as an institution.  Over time, the archive became less important for the activities of the Chancellor, and more valuable for historical researchers.  However, it wasn't until 1878 that the National Archives was established as an independent authority.

In a fire in 1419, not only the Tre Kronor castle in Stockholm, but the entire city was affected, incl. the town hall and the city archives which were completely destroyed.

In 1697 a fire at the Tre Kronor castle in Stockholm destroyed a large portion of the Archives, resulting in a severe loss of items and documents from the Middle Ages.  Out of 24,500 books and 1,400 manuscripts, only 6,000 books and 400 manuscripts could be salvaged, respectively.  One of Sweden's most famous books, The Silver Bible (Silverbibeln), or Codex Argenteus, was purportedly thrown out the castle window to save it from the flames.

The National Archives was originally limited to the Royal Office, but over time the National Archives has subsumed responsibility for archives of other central and local authorities.

Regional Archives
In order to preserve documents from regional and local governments, regional archives were created in seven cities from 1899 to 1935.  The Archives of Vadstena was the first regional archive to open in 1899.  Regional archives in Lund and Uppsala both opened in 1903, Visby in 1905, Gothenburg in 1911, Östersund in 1928, and finally in Härnösand in 1935.  The Regional Archives (Landsarkiven) were merged with the National Archives (Riksarkivet) in 2010 under a joint authority.

Military Archives 
The Military Archives (Swedish: Krigsarkivet) were created in 1805.  Formerly an independent authority, The Military Archives were incorporated into the National Archives in 1995.  The archive stores a unique and comprehensive collections of maps, including historical maps of Sweden, hand-written foreign topographical maps, and city fortification plans.

The National Herald Board
The National Herald Board was closed in 1953, and the state's heraldic operations continued as a department under the National Archives. The department deals with questions about coat of arms design, flags and emblems and continuously produces new heraldic images for newly formed governmental bodies, counties, etc. The head of the National Herald Board held the title of National Herald, but in the new organization the title instead became State Herald (Statsheraldiker).

In 2007, the Swedish military altered the image of the heraldic lion depicted on the Nordic Battlegroup's coat of arms, removing the lion's penis to promote a more gender neutral image following protests from female soldiers.  The creator of the image at the National Archives, Vladimir A. Sagerlund, made the news in Sweden over his staunch disapproval of the change.

Holdings