[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Ștefan Voitec

in government. He had nevertheless lost his Ministry on December 29 or 30, 1947, after falling out of favor with Stalinists. Reportedly, Voitec himself blamed Pauker, who, according to his account, had claimed that Voitec had misquoted the advice of his Soviet contacts, to make it seem more liberal.

Voitec presented himself in the elections of March 1948 for a new communist legislature, the Great National Assembly (MAN), taking a seat at Dolj. That year, he received the Star of the People's Republic and Ordinul Muncii, both 1st Class. During his final months at the Ministry, Voitec signed orders stripping hundreds of academics of their professorships, including those held by his former political allies, Hudiță and Papacostea. Papacostea left notes suggesting that Voitec had actually promised to intervene on his behalf alongside Gheorghiu-Dej, but that he never followed through, and would not answer his phone. During the backlash, Voitec's deputy, Petre Mironescu-Mera, was identified as a "reactionary instrument". Sacked and stripped of his PMR membership with Voitec's approval, he spent 1949–1956 in communist prisons. In early 1948, Voitec asked Mircea Florian, director of the school review board (Casa Școalelor), to leave Titel Petrescu and join his party, or to hand in his resignation; Florian chose the latter, exposing himself to more persecution.

Marginalization and return

Later in 1948, Voitec allegedly began noticing that he was being cold-shouldered by Gheorghiu-Dej, who was by then top leader of the PMR. A Securitate operative noted that Voitec's own phone line had by then been bugged in 1949, and that it remained so "for years on end". Voitec was still a Deputy Premier to April 16, 1949, when he was sent to a lesser office, as organizer of a Committee for Consumer Cooperatives. Both he and Traian Săvulescu, who was similarly relieved of his duties, declared that they intended to "devote themselves to [other] important functions they are holding." As reported by the Brazilian newspaper A Manha, his ouster and replacement with Vasile Luca were signs that the "communist coup" in Romania had been carried out to its fullest. Over the following months, however, Gheorghiu-Dej became consumed by his rivalry with Pauker and Luca, who ended up losing her positions in the PMR. During January 1950, Voitec was able to maneuver against Pauker by siding with Gheorghiu-Dej and Emil Bodnăraș. According to the anti-communist journal B.E.I.P.I., he was one of "four most obscure Politburo members" who swung the vote against Pauker.

During September 1949, a PMR internal report raised suspicion about Voitec and Constantinescu-Iași, singled out for their friendship with Bruno Manzone, head of Bucharest's Italian Institute and alleged spy. In May 1950, former PSDR man Levin defected abroad, causing indignation among the Politburo. During the summit which evaluated the consequences of these events, Voitec identified Levin as a "scoundrel" who had "acted out of opportunism, even in the social-democratic party." In his memoirs of communist imprisonment, Zilber argues that Gheorghiu-Dej wished to fabricate a show trial of Voitec, Rădăceanu and Pas, preparing George Ivașcu as a witness for the prosecution. Also according to Zilber, investigators were ordered by Alexandru Drăghici to include Voitec into a vast, but fictitious, anti-party conspiratorial network. However, Gheorghiu-Dej eventually found that, in order to ensure cooperation, "it made more sense to appoint [the Social Democrats] as high dignitaries." A lesser clampdown occurred against other former members of the PSDR, including Filderman and the Ghelerter family, who were identified as Trotskyists or right-wing deviationists. According to Pandrea, Filderman's imprisonment was owed to his activities as a Freemason.

By 1950, the Committee for Consumer Cooperatives had become a permanent body, called Centrocoop, with Voitec as its president. His work there included setting up a network of model apiaries, a beekeeping equipment plant in Oradea, and an itinerant school for beekeepers, which originated at Tulcea and then moved to Golești. In parallel, he was chair of Romania's Cycling Commission, presiding upon the Tour of Romania edition in June 1951. He still held on to his position in the PMR Central Committee, but lost his Politburo seat during a reshuffle on May 27, 1952. The November election brought him a MAN deputy seat for his native Corabia—which he then retook in 1957.