[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Foreign direct investment in Iran

arbitration in legal disputes. There are two major arbitral institutions in Iran: the Tehran Regional Arbitration Centre (TRAC) and the Arbitration Centre of the Tehran Commercial Chamber.
The establishment of a maximum 45-day period for the processing of individual foreign investment applications.

For the first time, project financing schemes such as buy back agreements and BOT projects (only under an operator status) are specifically covered under the foreign investment law.
Under the FIPPA, any foreign natural or legal person importing capital in Iran will enjoy the benefits and privileges of this law as long as:

The investment leads to economic growth, promotes technology, promotes quality of products, increases employment opportunities, increases exports and entering the international markets.
The investment does not jeopardize national security and public interests or harm the environment or interrupt national economy or disrupt products of domestic investments.
The investment does not involve the granting of any special rights resulting in a monopoly.
The value ratio of goods and services produced by aggregate of foreign investments does not exceed 25% in each economic sector and in each economic branch shall not exceed 35%. FIPPA will be applicable based on the nationality of the Foreign Capital as opposed to the investor. As long as the capital comes from foreign sources, any one importing it will be eligible for FIPPA protection including Iranians residing in Iran or abroad.

Starting in 2014, foreign investors, who establish production lines in Iran and export 30 percent of their products, will be entitled to tax exemptions (up to 50%).

Potential approaches to the market

First and foremost, it is crucial to realize that Iranian authorities insist on a long-term commitment and a transfer of technology as a requisite for getting a share in the market. Foreign companies are therefore advised to adopt a medium- to long-term strategy for the Iranian market. Iran will almost never honor the interests of a company that does not show long-term commitment. Tenders are strictly required for government contracts for purchasing or projects. These are rarely competitive. Breaking up contracts into smaller parts is a common practice to try to incorporate at least 30% of the contract's value in local capability and also to negotiate on specific prices.

Currently there are three main routes that a foreign company can follow to establish a long-term presence in Iran:

Joint ventures

One possible strategy is for the foreign company to enter into a joint-venture agreement with a public or private Iranian partner. The existing level of technology and infrastructure makes many Iranian companies suitable for expansion and development in conjunction with foreign companies. Many Iranian companies, especially those in the private sector, are currently actively seeking joint-venture partners both to fill their technological as well as management gaps. Others are looking for a revival of their company through foreign capital.

Should a company decide to adopt this approach to the market, it is advisable to look for products and services that have both domestic demand as well as regional export potential. If a joint-venture company can earn hard currency through export of its goods, it will not be too dependent on the Iranian banking system for the repatriation of profits and dividends. Some joint ventures consist purely of the transfer of technology to Iran by the foreign partner without any capital commitment. Since Iranian authorities are very keen on the introduction of modern technologies, this path can prove very constructive. In August 2010, the 25% ceiling set for joint venture companies in enjoying facilities from the foreign exchange reserve account has been eliminated. Industry and mines, agriculture, transport, services (such as tourism), IT and the export of goods and services are the sectors authorized to enjoy the new facilities from the Foreign Exchange Reserve Account.

Buy-back

In the 1990s and early 2000s, some indirect oilfield development agreements were made with foreign firms. Buyback contracts in the oil sector, for instance, were arranged in which the contractor funded all the investments, and then received remuneration from the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) in the form of an allocated production share, then transferred operation of the field to NIOC after a set number of years, at which time the contract was completed.