[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abertillery

that average house prices are among the most affordable in the UK.

Local history

Early history
There are very few written historical records relating to the area before the town developed in the middle of the 19th century. Nevertheless, there are facts that you can use to outline important events.

Abertillery museum has locally discovered artefacts dating as far back as the Bronze Age.
St Illtyd's Church overlooking the town dates to the 13th century – probably with 6th century origins.
St Illtyd's Motte lies just to the south west of the church. A Norman castle mound, it was probably destroyed in 1233.
The ruins of two more recent, probably 14th century, castles lie on private land to the northeast of St Illtyd's Church.
There are several ruined mediaeval farmhouses in the Abertillery area.
The Local Blaenau Gwent Baptist church can trace its roots back to Tŷ Nest Llewellyn, a ruined 17th-century dwelling place often used by non-conformists to escape from the religious persecution of the times.

Before the coming of major industry, Abertillery was little more than an area of scattered farms in the ancient parish of Aberystruth. In 1779 the parish minister Edmund Jones described the area thus: "The valley of Tyleri ... is the most delightful. The trees ... especially the beech trees, abounding about rivers great and small, the hedges and lanes make these places exceeding pleasant and the passing by them delightful and affecting ... in these warm valleys, with the prospect of the grand high mountains about them would make very delightful habitations." In 1799 clergyman and historian Archdeacon William Coxe toured the area and in writing a diary of his travels described it as "... richly wooded, and highly cultivated...we looked down with delight upon numerous valleys ... with romantic scenery". The entire population of Aberystruth parish at the turn of the 19th century was just a little over 800. It is not known what the population of Abertillery was at the time but it was probably in the very low hundreds, all of whom would have spoken Welsh only.

From the mid-nineteenth century

Industrialisation
The area's first deep coal mine was sunk in 1843.

Collieries in Abertillery
 Six Bells Colliery

Abertillery Institute
The first reading rooms were set up in Abertillery in 1856. However, when Thomas Powell took over the Tillery Colliery in 1882 he made a commitment to establish educational facilities for his workers.

Local government
Formed in 1877, Abertillery Urban District Council incorporated the adjoining smaller communities of Six Bells, Cwmtillery, Brynithel, Aberbeeg and Llanhilleth. The population of this conurbation climbed to almost 40,000 in 1931 making it the second largest town in Monmouthshire. The council was abolished in 1974 as part of major UK wide local government reorganisation.

Transport 
The reopening of Abertillery railway station has been identified as a future development of the Ebbw Valley Railway.

Education 

Abertillery Learning Community provides all-through education for the town and neighbouring areas. Until the 1970s the town had its own local authority-run Grammar school providing education up to the age of eighteen. Tertiary education is now provided by Coleg Gwent at Ebbw Vale – opened in 2013.

Industry 
There are several small and medium-sized business parks in the area offering a range of business premises. In 2014 the largest employer was Tyleri Valley Foods. Many local people commute outside the area to work.

Sport, leisure and tourism
Abertillery Town cricket club and Abertillery Blaenau Gwent RFC formed in the 1880s. Both have their playing headquarters at "the Park" one of the most picturesque sporting complexes in the UK.

The town supports two local Saturday football teams: Abertillery Bluebirds and Abertillery Excelsiors. There are numerous other sports activities running on an organized basis such as bowls, badminton, squash etc.

The surrounding landscape provides hill walking opportunities and walker led groups are thriving in the area.  One example is Ebbw Fach Trekkers walking group.

The local museum has displays showing what life was like in the area in its heyday. It also has its own "valleys" Italian café complete with original furnishings.

The Metropole theatre holds musical and drama events – from Blues to amateur dramatics and dance.

The  Guardian memorial is a destination for visitors to South Wales and amateur photographers in particular as evidenced by trip advisor.  The visitor centre Tŷ Ebbw Fach stands nearby and provides cafe and visitor "mining valley" experience facilities.

Notable people

 See also :Category:People from Abertillery. 
Local people of note in the fields of civil engineering, sport, science, medicine, religion and art: