[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Techno-nationalism

ride for their country and became "a prominent symbol of Indonesian national esteem and pride." Because of this newfound confidence, Indonesians began to consider themselves "equal to Westerners," showing that having pride in one's country can be a direct result of technological investments.

Canada

Canada's greatest challenge in the 19th century was to unite the country across a continent. The construction of the CPR (from 1881 to 1885) was a deliberate political and economic attempt to unite Canada's regions and link Eastern and Western Canada, the heartland and hinterland respectively. Charland identified this project as based on the nation's faith in technology's ability to overcome physical obstacles.  As the technology was adapted to suit Canadian needs, it fed the national rhetoric that railroads were an integral part of nation building. This spirit of technological nationalism also fuelled the development of broadcasting in the country and thus further served in the development of a national identity.  Paradoxically however, these technologies, which historian Harold Innis termed "space-binding," simultaneously supported and undermined the development of a Canadian nation. Based in connection rather than content, they did not favour any particular set of values, except those arising from trade and communication themselves, and so they also contributed to Canada's integration into first the British, and then the American empire.

See also
Communication theory
Identitarian movement
Nation-building
Nationalism
Political communications
Political rhetoric
Techno-globalism
Reactionary modernism

References

Maurice Charland "Technological Nationalism,"  Canadian Journal of Political and Social Theory 10 (1, 1986):  196-220.
"Maple Leaves, Beavers and Satellites: Technological Nationalism as Philosophy and Theory", a paper presented by Howard Fremeth at the CCA Annual Conference 2006, York University, Toronto
Old Messengers, New Media: The Legacy of Innis and McLuhan, a virtual museum exhibition at Library and Archives Canada

Further reading 

 Techno-nationalism and its impact on geopolitics and trade, Hinrich Foundation, October 2022
 Strategic US-China decoupling in the tech sector, Hinrich Foundation, June 2020

Nationalism
Science and technology in Canada
Technological races