[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Francis B. Spinola

e Revolutionary War, where he served as lieutenant, and died at the Battle of Eutaw Springs on May 22, 1781. John Phelan's mother was Mary Heron Phelan, from Waterford, Ireland. One of her descendants, Mrs. Regina M. Knott, was one of the earliest members of the Daughters of the American Revolution.

He had an older brother, John Leander Spinola (b. 1818) who worked as a druggist, a younger brother, Douglas A. Spinola (b. 1830), an older sister, Angelina Spinola, seamstress (b. 1814), and two younger sisters, Louisa (b. 1825) and Ann Eliza (b. 1829).

Gen. Spinola provided for his sister Ann Douglass until his death in 1891. She supported herself teaching music until her eyesight failed, and by 1903, at over seventy years of age, she was living on charity, on an allowance of $120 a year from the Society of the Cincinnati. This motivated a newspaper article, pleading for help and referring her family, the Spinolas, as New York aristocrats, a "distinguished family".

Gen. Francis Spinola married Elizabeth Nancy Glazebrook, from Kings, Saratoga County, New York, at May 7, 1855, in New York City. Eliza N. Spinola, as she was known, survived her husband for five years, dying in 1896.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)
List of United States Congress members who died in office (1790–1899)

References

External links

Official Records of the War of the Rebellion, General Spinola wounded, Volume XXVII, Part I, pages 538–541.

1821 births
1891 deaths
19th-century American politicians
American people of Irish descent
American people of Italian descent
American people of Portuguese descent
Burials at Green-Wood Cemetery
Deaths from pneumonia in Washington, D.C.
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from New York (state)
Excelsior Brigade
Democratic Party members of the New York State Assembly
Democratic Party New York (state) state senators
People from Old Field, New York
People of Ligurian descent
People of Madeiran descent
People of New York (state) in the American Civil War
Union Army generals