[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paula of Rome

rome and Paula when he writes the Wife of Bath's Prologue. Chaucer has the Wife visit the same pilgrimage sites as did Paula, and has her constantly cite not classical authors, but Jerome. Many of her comments are counter-arguments to those put forth by Jerome, mainly in his work Against Jovinianus.

Modern interpretations
Feminist authors writing in the late 19th and early 20th century, such as Ellen Battelle Dietrick and John Augustine Zahm, are attributing to Paula (and, to a degree, to her daughter Eustochium) a much more comprehensive role in Jerome's work, crediting Paula with first suggesting to him the translation of the Bible from Hebrew and Greek into Latin, resulting in his major oeuvre, the Vulgate, as well as in helping him along with the translation, editing Jerome's manuscripts, providing him the money needed for purchasing the necessary works, and eventually copying the text and putting it into wider circulation. Dietrick, the women's rights activist, also maintains that Paula "co-labor[ed] with Jerome", being a "woman of fine intellect, highly trained, and an excellent Hebrew scholar," who "revised and corrected Jerome's work" and takes case with the "Churchmen" attributing the Vulgate solely to Jerome, while this fundamental work would have never taken shape without Paula's contribution. Nancy Hardesty, a leading figure in the US evangelical feminist movement whose publishing and public activity career started in the 1960s and peaked in the 70s, wrote in 1988 about Paula in a popular Christian history magazine, speaking of how she paid Jerome's living expenses, and repeating several of the old tropes known from Dietrick and Zahm However, W.H. Fremantle, who wrote the Jerome chapter of the classical Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers (NPNF) series, published in 1892 and including all of Jerome's surviving letters to Paula and Eustachium, doesn't mention in Jerome's biography under "The Vulgate" Paula's or Eustochium's name even once, and only mentions two members of the next generation of "virgins", the younger Paula and Melania, as those who attended to him during his last years. The famous Epistula 108 written by Jerome at the death of Paula and addressed to Eustochium, while including a biography of his late friend, focuses on what Jerome conceives as Paula's main merits, her ascetic lifestyle and Christian values, but does not mention their working relationship. He does paraphrase Horace when he writes that "I have built" (to your memory) "a monument more lasting than bronze", but while the poet is predicting the long-lasting influence of the entire literary oeuvre left behind by him and his contemporaries of the Augustan age, Jerome is equivocal enough as to allow the Paula enthusiast, Rev. J.A. Zahm (1912), to see Jerome alluding here to his entire life-work, "but above all, ... the Vulgate" as Paula's monument, while the very rigurous Johanna C. Lamprecht (2017) only understands him as referring to that very letter. However, the fact remains that Jerome dedicated many of his reworked or new translations to Paula: Job, Isaiah, 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, Esther, three of the epistles (Galatians, Philemon, Titus), and the twelve minor prophets, with the Book of Esther being dedicated to both Paula and Eustochium. The official Vatican News is presenting as Paula's main merit the fact that it was her who "suggested the need" for the Bible's translation into Latin, and together with her daughter "copied the work so it could be shared far and wide."

Veneration
In 2022, Paula was officially added to the Episcopal Church liturgical calendar with a feast day together with her daughter, Eustochium on 28 September.

See also
 Hieronymites, also known as the Order of Saint Jerome, of which Saint Paula is co-patroness
 Monastery of Saint Mary of Parral, the motherhouse of the Order of Saint Jerome
 Saint Paula of Rome, patron saint archive
 Santa Paola Romana, church in Rome
 List of Christian women of the patristic age

Notes

External links

 Saint Paula of Rome, in Catholic Encyclopedia.
 The Bible and Women Pilgrims
 Letters of Saint Jerome and Saint Paula
  Saint Paula and the Order of Saint Jerome 
  Monastery of Saint Paula (in Seville, Spain)
 Palestine Pilgrims' Text Society (1887): The pilgrimage of the holy Paula by St Jerome

Further reading
  A different interpretation of Paula and her zeal.

347 births
404 deaths
Late Ancient Christian female saints
5th-century Christian saints
5th-century Roman women
Hieronymite Order
Anglican saints