[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Anti-Parliamentary Communist Federation

c centralism in a vanguard party to lead a revolution, arguing that revolutionary spontaneity was the driving force of any labour movement and emphasising that any dictatorship of the proletariat should be a mass movement of the whole working class rather than the work of a minority political party.

Despite the split, the APCF attempted to co-operate with other like-minded groups both in Britain and abroad. After Paul Mattick's Chicago-based United Workers' Party (UWP) rebuffed Aldred's attempts to unite it with the Communist League of Struggle (CLS), the APCF worked actively to maintain its links with the UWP and their magazine the International Council Correspondence. The APCF came together with the USM, as well as the Independent Labour Party (ILP) and Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), to establish the Socialist Anti-Terror Committee in Glasgow, a short-lived organisation formed in order to oppose the ongoing "Great Terror" in the Soviet Union. Meanwhile, Aldred's "domineering personality" brought a number of people to resign from the USM, with some joining the APCF. Nevertheless, the APCF's influence within British politics remained small. By this time, a wave of pessimism regarding the revolutionary prospects in Britain and around the world permeated through the weak and isolated anti-parliamentary movement, now confined to merely analyzing political events from the sidelines. European council communist ideas began to work their way into the APCF's ideology, which started to pick up decadence theory, on display in their May 1936 issue of Advance, in which one members analyzed the Italian invasion of Ethiopia as a product of Italy's capitalistic need to expand in the face of bankruptcy. They also made use of decadence theory in their article Capitalism Must Go!, in which they explained overproduction, coupled with a rise in unemployment and a reduction in demand, to be the key reason for the Great Depression.

The outbreak of the Spanish Revolution was welcomed by the APCF, not only a key challenge to the rise of fascism, but one which had also caused a resurgence in the activities of the previously declining British anti-parliamentary communist movement.

Spanish Civil War
Although the APCF had previously criticised the reformist tendencies displayed by the Spanish labour movement with the Popular Front victory in 1936 Spanish general election, they declared that the reforms brought by the new government were due to the popular movement that had elected the government to power in the first place, describing the Popular Front as a "capitalist administration" and calling for system change rather than mere regime change. But their views on the Popular Front government changed in the wake of the nationalist coup. They had initially analyzed the coup through an anti-parliamentary lens, commenting that: "The uselessness of parliament should be obvious to all [...] wherever the ruling class decides that parliament fails to express their desires, parliament will be abolished!" But they swiftly took on a notably constitutionalist approach towards the nascent civil war by focusing on the nationalists' breaking of "international law" and describing the Popular Front as an "orthodox democratic government". These terms were used in an attempt to coax intervention from the United Kingdom and France into the war, with the APCF criticising the British government for refusing to provide aid to the Spanish Republic and for placing an arms embargo on the "legally and democratically constituted government of Spain". 

Months after leaders of the CNT joined the Republican government under Francisco Largo Caballero, the APCF published a pamphlet by the anarchist Minister of Health Federica Montseny which defended anarchist collaboration with the republicans, under the cause of the "unity of all anti-fascists". The initial unity of various differing factions under the Republican banner was a source of inspiration to the APCF, who urged the formation of a similar united front in Britain. The Federation even went as far as to suspend its journal, instead collaborating with the Freedom newspaper on a joint monthly publication Fighting Call. 

Despite the APCF's call for unity, its relations with the USM remained hostile, with the two groups competing for recognition as the official representative of the CNT-FAI in Britain, the APCF eventually winning the bid with the support of Emma Goldman. As a result, the APCF's publications Fighting Call and Advance became solely dedicated to publishing material from the CNT-FAI, without criticism, comment or editorial. The feud between the APCF and USM continued when their respective delegates were sent to Spain, with the APCF's delegate Jane Patrick being expelled from the Federation before she even arrived, causing a confrontation between the two groups in Glasgow.