[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Triple Eight Racing

and outright championship (Tony Gilham also drove for Geoff Steel Racing). Aron Smith finished equal 21st and equal 22nd in the Independents Trophy and outright championship. Ollie Jackson finished equal 19th and equal 26th in the championship.

MG manufacturer entry (2012–2017)

MG6 GT (2012–2017)

It was officially announced that Triple Eight would return to Manufacturer status with MG, running a pair of MG6 GT cars to the latest Next Generation Touring Car specification. Jason Plato joined the team from Chevrolet, alongside Andy Neate, who had joined from Team Aon. This meant that although Triple Eight were the reigning Independent Driver and Team champions, they would be ineligible to defend their titles due to the MG's manufacturer support.

Entering the championship as MG KX Momentum Racing, with the main sponsor being Tesco through its KX energy drink and Momentum Fuel brands, the car made its debut at Brands Hatch after hardly turning a wheel during its build and development. Nevertheless, the car was on the pace straight away, scoring a third place in race two and the car's maiden win at the hands of Plato in race three. Throughout the rest of the first half of the 2012 season, the MG6 and Plato scored a further six podium positions including a second win at Croft just before the mid-season break. This left Plato third in the drivers' championship and the team fourth in the teams' championship. Plato's teammate Andy Neate, however, did not fare as well with his debut with the team, with his best result being sixth but often struggling to get his MG into the top ten; which left him only 17th at the halfway point of the season. The second half of the year saw Plato add four more wins to his tally, at Snetterton, Rockingham and Silverstone placing him 3rd in the final standings, while Neate ended up 16th. The team meanwhile slipped to 5th place in the overall championship and came 2nd in the Manufacturers' standings.

Plato stayed with the team for 2013, while Neate was replaced by Porsche Carrera Cup race winner Sam Tordoff. Their second year with the MG6 GT proved more successful, with both drivers securing more top-spot finishes. However, despite the improvements, Plato still only finished 3rd in the drivers championship, with the team finishing as runners up to Honda Yuasa Racing in both Teams and Manufacturer's championships.

In 2014, the team entered as MG KX Clubcard Fuel Save and retained their 2013 driver lineup. However, the team expanded to run a third, independent entry MG6 GT under the name Quantel BiFold Racing for 1999 British Formula Three Championship winner and Head of Driver Development at Marussia F1 Marc Hynes. The campaign got off to a good start with Plato and Tordoff both scoring race wins at the second round at Donington Park. Plato continued his good form scoring a further five wins during the season finishing the season as runner up. The pairing of Plato and Tordoff was good enough thought to secure MG's first Manufacturers Championship, beating rivals Honda by ninety-five points. This was the first title that the team has won since the departure of Vauxhall and the swap to MG.

A new driver lineup and sponsor package was announced for the 2015 British Touring Car Championship. 2013 Drivers' Champion Andrew Jordan moved to the team from his family run Eurotech Racing.

The 2016 British Touring Car Championship is the first of a new 3-year deal between Triple Eight and MG to race in the BTCC. A new line-up was formed of 2015 Jack Sears Trophy winner Josh Cook, who moved from Power Maxed Racing, and 2015 Renault UK Clio Cup champion Ashley Sutton graduated into the championship.

Triple Eight left the BTCC after the 2017 season and folded on 13 November 2018.

BTCC gallery

BTCC results

Notes
* Season still in progress
† Swapped teams mid season

GT racing
Triple Eight made their debut into Sports car racing during the 2013 British GT season. They prepared and ran a pair of BMW Z4 GT3 cars in a joint venture with Optimum Motorsport and entered the championship as 888Optimum. The team did well in their first year, securing several podium positions as well as two pole positions at Brands Hatch and Donington Park, with their experienced driver parings of Joe Osborne & Lee Mowle and Daniel Brown & Steve Tandy.

Triple Eight continued racing during the 2014 British GT season, using the BMWs. However, whilst they retained Joe Osborne & Lee Mowle, they added the new pairing of Derek Johnston and Luke Hines. Towards the end of the season, Warren Hughes and Jody Firth joined the team in a third Z4. The team finished the year 7th in the team's championship, 2 places behind the debut years finishing position, with Derek Johnston being the highest placed driver finishing 14th.