[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# January 1973

occan Air Force lieutenant colonel who had been convicted of treason for the attempted assassination and coup d'état of King Hassan II on August 16, was executed by a firing squad at the prison in Kenitra.
Prince Ranieri, Duke of Castro, 89, pretender to the throne of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies

January 14, 1973 (Sunday)
In Italy, agents of the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad foiled an attempt by the PLO to shoot down a jet transporting Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir to Rome's Fiumicino Airport.  Meir was in Italy on a state visit to meet President Leone and Pope Paul VI, and Mossad had only learned about the plot the day before.  Spotting a Fiat van in a field near the flight path of Meir's airplane, a Mossad agent ordered the driver to step out of the van, and a gun fight began, with two terrorists being wounded.  A search found that the van had six heat-seeking missiles and a launcher, and after torture, the captured driver revealed the location of a backup team with missiles and launchers mounted on a van. A Mossad truck rammed the second team's van and detained the would-be assassins.  Mrs. Meir's flight, and El Al jet bringing her to Rome after her visit to Paris, landed that evening under heavy security, taxiing to a spot more than one mile from the passenger terminal, where she was met by a chauffeur and officials from the Italian Foreign Ministry.  The next day, she became the first Israeli prime minister to meet with a Pope.
Elvis Presley's "Aloha from Hawaii via Satellite" concert was performed in Honolulu at 12:30 in the morning local time, to be seen live in Australia, the Philippines, Japan, South Korea, South Vietnam and Hong Kong, and on tape delay everywhere else in the world.
The Miami Dolphins defeated the Washington Redskins, 14–7, to win Super Bowl VII and to complete the NFL's first, and thus far only, "perfect season", with no losses or ties in the regular season or the postseason.  The Dolphins finished with a record of 14-0-0 in regular play and then won their three playoff games.
All 29 people aboard a CAAC Airlines airplane in the People's Republic of China were killed when the Ilyushin Il-14 twin-engine plane, CAAC 644, crashed into the side of a mountain in Guiyang in Guizhou province. 
The day before Israel's Prime Minister Golda Meir was scheduled to fly in a jet to Rome for a state visit to Italy and to the Vatican, the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad learned of a possible Palestine Liberation Organization plot to assassinate her by shooting down her airplane.  .
The Enemy is Dead, a play written by Don Petersen, opened on Broadway at the Bijou Theatre and closed after one performance.
Born: Artur Ayvazyan, Armenian Ukrainian sport shooter and 2008 Olympic gold medalist; in Yerevan, Armenian SSR, Soviet Union