[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Avengers: The Initiative

attack, Counter Force buries Michael Van Patrick's body and confesses to the world about Michael's death and the clones. This gives Norman Osborn the opportunity to shut down Camp Hammond.

Following the Taskmaster's fight with Hardball's HYDRA faction, Norman Osborn hires him to help run the camp.

Norman Osborn announces to the media that he has reopened the Initiative training camp under the name Camp H.A.M.M.E.R. in New Mexico away from any populated areas. Osborn then moulds the Initiative to match his own vision. He transfers Gravity to the Great Lakes Avengers with Prodigy taking his place as leader of the Heavy Hitters. He assigns the Force of Nature to Oregon, the U-Foes to North Carolina, the Psionex to Maryland and the Women Warriors to Delaware. Penance, brainwashed at Osborn's command, is sent to Camp H.A.M.M.E.R. to assist Taskmaster. Gauntlet and Tigra leave their posts at the Initiative and join with the New Warriors to form the Avengers Resistance against Norman Osborn's new regime. Trauma is kept on as the Camp H.A.M.M.E.R. counselor, against his will with the promise that if he leaves, his mother will be killed, but if he stays, they will cure her insanity. It is later revealed that he is actually the son of Nightmare, who corrupts his son's body and attacks the base. Most of the heroes are stunned by their fears, but Taskmaster revives a fallen Penance, who has regained all his memories and no longer has any fears and regrets. Immune to Nightmare, he frees Trauma and Nightmare is banished.

Osborn is pleased with Taskmaster and invites him to join the Cabal, while Constrictor is shocked to learn Diamondback is a double agent to the Avengers Resistance. He admits he does not care since he is in love with her. Osborn reveals to Taskmaster that the next mission will be to lay Siege on Asgard. After Osborn's treachery is exposed, the Superhuman Registration Act has been abolished.

During the Fear Itself storyline, the Initiative teams have gotten back together where their representatives meet with Prodigy in Washington, DC to discuss the hammers that the Serpent has brought to Earth.

Shadow Initiative

It has been revealed that there is a special "black ops" team within the Initiative, answerable only to Henry Gyrich and known as the Shadow Initiative. This team comprises Bengal, Trauma, Constrictor, Mutant Zero, and, for a time, the Scarlet Spiders.

This Shadow Initiative was sent out by Henry Gyrich to free the Initiative members captured by the Hulk's Warbound; Rage, Cloud 9, Ultra Girl, Thor Girl, Slapstick and Hardball; this assignment showed Bengal to be a perfect field leader of this Shadow Initiative. The black ops group successfully rescues these captured trainees, while Trauma, their "secret weapon" tries to use his powers to scare the Hulk (becoming the Abomination, Juggernaut, Brian Banner, and Bruce Banner). He cannot beat the Hulk, and the Hulk beats him into unconsciousness, leaving Terrance alive to pass the message on to the others. Trauma is later seen recuperating in the Initiative's medical bay.

It is later revealed that the Scarlet Spiders are clones of Michael Van Patrick (MVP), a deceased initiative recruit accidentally killed. The Scarlet Spiders are later taken off the Black Ops team after revealing themselves to the public and placed with the other trainees.

Gyrich called them to protect him from K.I.A., but they lost and one of the Scarlet Spiders was killed, and Constrictor was badly maimed. Mutant Zero saved Gyrich and Scarlet Spiders continued the battle for their brother. After KIA was defeated, the two remaining Scarlet Spiders left the Initiative to join Counter Force, a team of former New Warriors led by Justice, while Constrictor was healed with two bionic hands.

During Secret Invasion, the Shadow Initiative stayed at Camp Hammond while most others at Camp Hammond went to fight the Skrulls in New York. Later the Skrulls used Camp Hammond as a base, which Ant-Man discovers, having stayed behind out of cowardice. The Shadow Initiative tries to assassinate the Skrull Queen Veranke, but is defeated and captured, except for Ant-Man. During this story it was revealed Mutant Zero is a red-haired woman.

After Secret Invasion, Taskmaster is added by Gauntlet to the Black-Ops team as their field leader. The Shadow Initiative, joined by Komodo, is assigned to take down a HYDRA cell, led by former Initiative member Hardball, in Madripoor. After the mission briefing, Taskmaster senses something familiar about Mutant Zero and later confronts her. A fight ensues and Taskmaster goads Mutant Zero into revealing her true identity: Mary Walker.