[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Jean Lee (murderer)

drews were hanged together two hours after Lee's execution.  The two men were reported to have "met their deaths calmly and steadily".  As they were seated together on the scaffold, Andrews said in a firm voice: "Goodbye Robert".  Clayton replied softly: "Goodbye Charlie" (his nickname for Andrews).

Small groups, mostly of women, stood opposite the main entrance to Pentridge Prison on the morning of the executions.  The three bodies were buried in the gaol graveyard reserved for executed prisoners.
 
Jean Lee was the last woman to be executed in Australia.  She was one of only two women executed in Australia during the twentieth century (the other being Martha Rendell, hanged in 1909 in Western Australia for murdering her de facto husband's children).  The previous execution of a woman in Victoria was in 1895.

The accomplices

 Robert David Clayton – born on 22 January 1917 at Paddington, the son of Robert Clayton and Florence (née Richards).  After leaving school Clayton worked as clerk for Schweppes Ltd. in Sydney.  In October 1939 he enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force as a stores clerk.  From May 1940 Clayton was subject to disciplinary action, detention and forfeiture of pay for frequent absences without leave and failing to obey orders.  On 16 August 1940 Clayton married Nancy Lewis at Woollahra.  By December 1940 the Airforce had determined that Clayton's "retention in the Service is undesirable".  He was formally discharged from the RAAF in January 1941.  In August 1941 Clayton enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force and was mobilised to Palestine with the Sixth Division.  He was not involved in active service in the Middle East and was returned to Australia in 1942 as part of the deployment of troops to meet the threat of Japan's entry into the war.  When he reached Sydney Clayton's wife, who was in a relationship with an American airman, told him their marriage was over.  After this "blow to his pride" Clayton was hospitalised at Concord for four months suffering from "anxiety neurosis".  After rejoining his unit he was absent without leave on a number of occasions and placed in detention at various times.  Divorce proceedings were initiated in 1943 and Clayton was subject to court martial proceedings based on his military service record.  He was discharged from the AIF in December 1943.  Nancy and Robert Clayton were divorced in 1945.
 Norman Thomas Anthes – was born on 29 May 1910 at Orange, the son of William Anthes and Mary (née Crampton).  Anthes worked as an electrician and projectionist.  He married Mildred Fuller in April 1931 at Parramatta and a daughter was born to the couple in November that year.  By about 1935 the marriage had fallen apart and Anthes adopted an itinerant lifestyle, working in a variety of jobs.  Mildred and Norman Anthes divorced in June 1936.  By 1940 Anthes had been convicted of fifteen separate offences, including stealing, receiving stolen goods and breaching bail conditions.  He enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force in July 1940 and served in the Australian Depot Battalion in the Middle East and as a signalman in the 9th Division.  At Tobruk he received minor injuries from a shell explosion and spent time in a military hospital.  Anthes was court-martialled on four separate occasions during his military service (October 1941, April 1943, October 1943 and April 1944).  In April 1943 at his court-martial in Sydney on a charge of being absent without leave, Anthes "dramatically exclaimed that if he had had a gun he might now be standing his trial for murder".  He added that "he found that his wife was living with another man and he had gone from Queensland to Wagga seeking divorce evidence".  In early 1944 Anthes robbed and assaulted a civilian, for which he was charged in March 1944 and sentenced to three years gaol.  He was formally discharged from the Army soon afterwards.  When he was released from Long Bay in May 1946 Anthes joined the crew of a vessel going to New Zealand, where he deserted.  After about a year in New Zealand he was deported back to Sydney.  In August 1947 Anthes was charged with breaking and entering and sentenced to eighteen months in Long Bay where he met Robert Clayton.  In July 1949, soon after his release, Anthes faced stealing charges.  In September he was charged with two counts of assault and other offenses, for which he was fined £22 (or 42 days in prison in default).  Anthes was known under the aliases of Andrews, Johnson and Clarke and was described by police "as an associate of the worst type of criminal".  He regularly frequented nightclubs, billiard saloons and two-up schools and was a heavy drinker.  On 18 October 1949 Anthes, by now calling himself Norman Andrews, flew to Melbourne and a week later met up with Clayton and Lee at the Werribee Cup race meeting.

The victim