[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Plant morphology

by the smallness of the buds, by the evolution of faster translocation of water, and an ability to tolerate intensive freeze dehydration. In boreal species of Picea and Pinus, the frost resistance of 1-year-old seedlings is on a par with mature plants, given similar states of dormancy.

Juvenility 

The organs and tissues produced by a young plant, such as a seedling, are often different from those that are produced by the same plant when it is older.  This phenomenon is known as juvenility or heteroblasty.  For example, young trees will produce longer, leaner branches that grow upwards more than the branches they will produce as a fully grown tree.  In addition, leaves produced during early growth tend to be larger, thinner, and more irregular than leaves on the adult plant.  Specimens of juvenile plants may look so completely different from adult plants of the same species that egg-laying insects do not recognise the plant as food for their young. 
Differences are seen in rootability and flowering and can be seen in the same mature tree. Juvenile cuttings taken from the base of a tree will form roots much more readily than cuttings originating from the mid to upper crown. Flowering close to the base of a tree is absent or less profuse than flowering in the higher branches especially when a young tree first reaches flowering age.

The transition from early to late growth forms is referred to as 'vegetative phase change',
but there is some disagreement about terminology.

Modern Innovations 

Rolf Sattler has revised fundamental concepts of comparative morphology such as the concept of homology. He emphasised that homology should also include partial homology and quantitative homology. This leads to a continuum morphology that demonstrates a continuum between the morphological categories of root, shoot, stem (caulome), leaf (phyllome), and hair (trichome). How intermediates between the categories are best described has been discussed by Bruce K. Kirchoff et al. A recent study conducted by Stalk Institute extracted coordinates corresponding to each plant's base and leaves in 3D space. When plants on the graph were placed according to their actual nutrient travel distances and total branch lengths, the plants fell almost perfectly on the Pareto curve. "This means the way plants grow their architectures also optimises a very common network design tradeoff. Based on the environment and the species, the plant is selecting different ways to make tradeoffs for those particular environmental conditions."

Honoring Agnes Arber, author of the partial-shoot theory of the leaf, Rutishauser and Isler called the continuum approach Fuzzy Arberian Morphology (FAM). “Fuzzy” refers to fuzzy logic, “Arberian” to Agnes Arber. Rutishauser and Isler emphasised that this approach is not only supported by many morphological data but also by evidence from molecular genetics. More recent evidence from molecular genetics provides further support for continuum morphology. James (2009) concluded that "it is now widely accepted that... radiality [characteristic of most stems] and dorsiventrality [characteristic of leaves] are but extremes of a continuous spectrum. In fact, it is simply the timing of the KNOX gene expression!." Eckardt and Baum (2010) concluded that "it is now generally accepted that compound leaves express both leaf and shoot properties.”

Process morphology describes and analyses the dynamic continuum of plant form. According to this approach, structures do not have process(es), they are process(es). Thus, the structure/process dichotomy is overcome by "an enlargement of our concept of 'structure' so as to include and recognise that in the living organism it is not merely a question of spatial structure with an 'activity' as something over or against it, but that the concrete organism is a spatio-temporal structure and that this spatio-temporal structure is the activity itself".

For Jeune, Barabé and Lacroix, classical morphology (that is, mainstream morphology, based on a qualitative homology concept implying mutually exclusive categories) and continuum morphology are sub-classes of the more encompassing process morphology (dynamic morphology).