[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Syndicat Northcrest v Amselem

violation of freedom of religion has occurred to raise challenges under the Quebec and Canadian Charters.  The gravity of the violations will have to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. However, in this case the Supreme Court noted freedom of religion should not work to deny the rights of others.

Turning back to this case, the Supreme Court observed Syndicat Northcrest had argued freedom of religion was limited here by rights to enjoy property and to personal security.  However, the Court found the rights of the Orthodox Jews had been severely infringed, while Syndicat Northcrest's rights were not significantly affected.  Thus, freedom of religion would prevail. The trial judge had found at least one of the Orthodox Jews sincerely believed he needed a sukkah, while the others seemed not to because they did not have sukkahs in the past.  The Supreme Court rejected the latter finding, because it relied on a study of past practice.  The Supreme Court also noted the Jews might have wanted sukkahs for religious reasons, regardless of whether they were necessary; this also undermined the view that past practices should be studied.  The Court then decided the violation of religious freedom was serious because the right to an individual sukkah was not limited but denied completely.  

Conversely, Syndicat Northcrest claimed that the sukkahs limited rights to enjoy property because the sukkahs could take away from the attractiveness of the building and its financial value.  Rights to personal security were claimed because the sukkahs might block off fire escapes.  The Court was unconvinced the property value would drop because of lack of evidence, and the attractiveness of the building for nine days every year was held to be a small issue, especially in the context of the importance of multiculturalism.  The Court also noted the Jews had offered to mind fire safety.  Regarding the argument that the Jews had waived their rights, Iacobucci noted it was still not certain whether constitutional rights can be waived.  If they can, the waiver should be more explicit and done under complete free will.  The Jews in this case did not have complete free will in their agreement because they wanted to live in those buildings.

Dissent

Bastarache
A dissent was written by Justice Bastarache. He interpreted past freedom of religion case law as meaning the right protects religious beliefs and practices that result from those beliefs. Beliefs can be discovered through religious rules; these distinguish religion from personal activities.  Thus, a belief is not held individually but is shared.  This provided an objective approach to freedom of religion. Expert testimony would be a great help in finding whether a belief is religious.  Next, the sincerity of the individual is studied, in a non-intrusive way. Bastarache felt for most of the Jews in this case, the religion required eating in a sukkah, but an individual sukkah was not needed. While Bastarache noted one Jew might have a right to an individual sukkah, this needed to be balanced against "proper regard for democratic values, public order and the general well-being of the citizens of Québec", as required by the Quebec Charter. The property and safety rights thus entered consideration.  Bastarache wrote that "it is difficult to imagine how granting a right of way in emergency situations, which is essential to the safety of all the occupants of the co-owned property, could fail to justify the prohibition against setting up sukkahs, especially in light of the compromise proposed by the respondent."

Binnie
Justice Ian Binnie also wrote a dissent. He observed the oddness of the situation, namely that a right was being claimed against other owners of the building and not a government. The owners had made agreements that would prohibit the sukkahs. Binnie emphasized the importance of this agreement or contract.

See also
List of Supreme Court of Canada cases (McLachlin Court)
History of the Jews in Canada
Status of religious freedom in Canada
Multani v Commission scolaire Marguerite‑Bourgeoys

References

External links

Canadian freedom of religion case law
Jewish Canadian history
Supreme Court of Canada cases
2004 in Canadian case law