[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Foreign enlistment in the American Civil War

Foreign enlistment in the American Civil War (1861–1865) reflected the conflict's international significance among both governments and their citizenry. Diplomatic and popular interest were aroused by the United States' status as a nascent power at the time, and by the war's central cause being the globally divisive issue of slavery. Consequently, many men enlisted from abroad and among immigrant communities in the U.S. When hostilities first broke out, roughly 13% of Americans were foreign-born, the vast majority concentrated in northern cities; subsequently, foreign enlistment largely favored the Union, which was also far more successful at attracting volunteers.

Roughly a quarter to a third of the Union Army was foreign-born, or 543,000–625,000 out of 2 million troops; an additional 18% had at least one parent born abroad, meaning close to half the Northern army had some recent foreign origin. By contrast, only several thousand foreigners served with the Confederacy, comprising just 5% of its armed forces. The significant manpower advantage to Union forces proved decisive to its victory, with some historians claiming the North otherwise would not have prevailed.

Reflecting the influx of immigrants leading up to the war, the largest foreign contingents on either side were German, Irish, and British (including English, Scottish and Welsh). Most other foreign recruits were from Canada and the rest of Europe, particularly Poland, France, Italy, and Scandinavia; smaller numbers came from China, Mexico, Hawaii, and various Native American tribes. Several high-ranking political and military leaders in both the Union and Confederacy were of foreign or immigrant background.

Like American citizens, foreigners and immigrants fought in the war for various reasons; many were motivated by an ideological opposition to slavery, others by loyalty to their adopted homeland, and still others sought economic opportunity. Regardless of their motives and origins, most foreign soldiers reportedly served with as much loyalty and distinction as native-born Americans. Nevertheless, many were subject to the wider nativist sentiments of American society, as well as to prejudices against their particular ethnicity, faith, or nationality. Some in the Union downplayed immigrant contributions, partly in response to Confederate propaganda directed at both Northern and foreign audiences that claimed the Union was relying heavily on "foreign mercenaries" and "refuse" to serve as cannon fodder.

Background 
In the 40 years leading to the outbreak of the war, the United States had received four million immigrants; the vast majority came from Ireland (one million), the German states (500,000), and Great Britain (300,000). By 1860, well over a tenth of all Americans were foreign-born, with a similar proportion being second- or third-generation immigrants. The influx drove a significant demographic shift in the country: At the start of the 19th century, the U.S. population was around five million; by 1860, it had swelled to roughly 31 million.

The more urbanized and industrialized states of the northern U.S. drew the lion's share of foreign arrivals, which accounted for the Union's decisive demographic advantage over the Confederacy; two-thirds of all Americans (21 million) lived in U.S.-controlled territory. This included 91% of all pre-war immigrants, who now made up over half the U.S. population following secession. Consequently, the North recruited the overwhelming majority of foreigners who served in the Civil War.

While most immigrants, particularly from Ireland, were fleeing hardship, famine, and persecution, a large number, especially from German lands, came following the sociopolitical upheavals that gripped much of Europe in 1848. Many new arrivals had republican sentiments and a strong opposition to political oppression of all forms, including slavery; parallels were drawn between the enslavement of African Americans and the aristocratic exploitation of serfs and peasants. Hence many U.S. immigrants were enthusiastic supporters of the Union and joined for ideological reasons.

Union enlistment

The Union made a concerted effort to recruit foreigners both at home and abroad. One recruitment poster, written in Italian, French, Hungarian, and German, called on "250 able-bodied men . . . Patriots of all nations" to serve their "adopted country". U.S. diplomats, who sought to garner international support while undermining recognition and aid to the Confederacy, reported enthusiasm for the Union cause among many foreigners; in the summer of 1861, just months after the war began, a U.S. mission in Italy received hundreds of Italian volunteers, some wearing the patriotic red shirts of the Italian unification movement.