[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nuclear Energy Institute

em which would greatly help the US. The sustainable development of increasing our nuclear energy would be very beneficial. NEI claims that it could even help poverty, hunger, and stagnant economies. Nuclear energy would help because it would provide individuals with clean, low-cost, secure energy.  

Infrastructure within America has not been able to keep pace with Americans rapidly increasing power needs. To keep the gap between power and expansion of infrastructure, NEI suggests maintaining existing nuclear power plants. This suggestion is made with the knowledge that after a power plant has closed, it is gone forever. NEI also advocates for more nuclear power infrastructure due to hundreds of jobs being created and consistent for the years to come.

NEI advocates for nuclear energy due to it being the largest source of clean energy within the United States, already producing more than half of the nation’s clean electricity. Due to the lack of emissions from nuclear energy, it acts as a beneficial option for states attempting to comply with the Clean Air Act.

Key personnel 
 President and Chief Executive Officer: Maria G. Korsnick
 Chairman: Ralph Izzo
 Vice Chairman: Paul D. Koonce
 President and Chief Executive Officer: Maria G. Korsnick
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer: Phyllis M. Rich
 Senior Vice President, External Affairs: Neal M. Cohen
 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary: Ellen C. Ginsberg
 Vice President, Policy Development and Public Affairs: John F. Kotek
 Vice President, Government Affairs: Beverly K. Marshall
 Chief Nuclear Officer and Senior Vice President, Generation and Suppliers: Doug E. True
 Vice President, Generation and Suppliers: Jennifer L. Uhle
 Vice President, Communications: Jon C. Wentzel

See also 
 Nuclear power in the United States
 Office of Nuclear Energy
 United States Department of Energy
 Atomic Industrial Forum
 American Nuclear Society
 Institute of Nuclear Power Operations
 Frank L. "Skip" Bowman (Biographic details)
 Institute of Nuclear Materials Management

References

External links 
 
 Clean and Safe Energy Coalition (CASEnergy)
 Skip Bowman speech at LA Town Hall
 Dr. Patrick Moore at NEA 2006
 Stewart Brand at NEA 2006
 SourceWatch on the Nei

Business organizations based in the United States
Nuclear industry organizations
Nuclear organizations
501(c)(6) nonprofit organizations
Organizations established in 1994
Trade associations based in the United States
Lobbying organizations based in Washington, D.C.
Organizations based in Washington, D.C.