[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS Winona

the day. Winona received orders to investigate and steamed off toward the stranger. Disregarding the gunboat's hail, the stranger—a barkentine-rigged steamer bearing the unmistakable lines of a British gunboat and flying the red British ensign—bore on toward Oneida. Winona came about and gave chase.

Encountering CSS Florida
As the intruder approached, Oneida loosed a warning shot across her bow at about 1800. The unidentified warship did not even slacken speed. Oneida put two more shots across her bow in quick succession and then began firing into the ship itself. At 1805, the stranger hauled down the British colors and raised the Confederate ensign. At that point Winona commenced firing at what later proved to be the Confederate commerce raider Florida.

The chase continued until about 1827 when Florida crossed the bar into Mobile Bay and Winona, , and  gave up pursuit because of a combination of growing darkness, shallow water, and the guns of Fort Morgan. Florida had been severely riddled but Lt. John Newland Maffit had succeeded in his audacious dash through the Union blockade in spite of a skeleton crew laid low for the most part by yellow fever and the fact that he was unable to return fire because his guns lacked sponges, rammers, and other necessary equipment. Later, he would repeat the feat on an outward voyage to become a successful commerce raider excelled only by Semmes and Waddell.

Return to Mississippi River duty
Winona, meanwhile, resumed her blockade duty off Mobile. That duty lasted until December when she received orders to return to the Mississippi River. On 14 December, while anchored near Profit Island, she was fired upon by a well-concealed Confederate shore battery. Though she returned fire, Winona’s proved ineffective because she had insufficient steam to bring her broadside to bear on the target. After suffering under the deadly accurate Southern fire, she was forced to retire from the engagement.
 
In April 1863, the gunboat provided support for the campaign against Port Hudson, Mississippi, one of the two last Confederate strongholds on the river. On 18 June, when a Confederate Army force occupied Plaquemine in Iberville Parish, Louisiana, Winona drove them out with gunfire and then moved on to the fort at nearby Donaldsonville to warn the Union garrison assigned there about the proximity of a large Southern force. The Confederates did not attack the fort immediately; and, in the meantime, Winona steamed up and down the river just in case.

On two occasions during the following 10 days, she sighted and bombarded relatively large Southern concentrations ashore. When the Confederates finally attacked the fort at Donaldsonville on 28 June, Winona's guns helped to repulse them. At the conclusion of that action, she returned north to participate in the final stages of the siege of Vicksburg, which finally surrendered on 4 July 1863.

End-of-war operations
On 25 August, the gunboat arrived in Baltimore, Maryland, for extensive repairs. She concluded the yard work in February 1864 and departed Baltimore to join the South Atlantic Blockading Squadron off the coasts of South Carolina and Georgia.

For the remainder of the Civil War, that coastal region constituted her area of operations. Though stationed principally on the Charleston, South Carolina, blockade station, she also operated on the Suwannee River where she captured and destroyed a steamer on 25 March 1864. She also participated in attacks on Forts Rosedon and Beaulieu near Savannah, Georgia.

After the Confederate evacuation and Union occupation of Charleston in February 1865, Winona operated on the Combahee River in Georgia until the end of hostilities in April.

Post-war decommissioning
She was placed out of commission on 9 June 1865 at the Portsmouth, New Hampshire, Navy Yard.  Winona was moved to the New York Navy Yard on 22 November 1865. She was one of eleven Navy ships auctioned off at New York City on 30 November 1865.  Winona sold for $20,500 to Charles W. Copeland, who promptly put her up for sale again. Copeland had a broad range of steam engineering-oriented business including buying and selling steamships and removing and selling their machinery.  It is unclear what he did with Winona.

See also

Union blockade

References
 

Ships built in New York City
Unadilla-class gunboats
Ships of the Union Navy
Steamships of the United States Navy
1861 ships