[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Montfort Secondary School

e school. The mass was held in Church of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the church at the old location of the school.

In 2017, Montfort had a centennial mass in Church of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary as a part of its celebrations for its 100th anniversary.

Identity and culture

School crest 
The top-left quadrant has the letters A.M. for "Ave Maria",  and a lily. The bottom-right quadrant has the letters D+S with a cross. D.S. is the abbreviation for Dieu Seul ("God Alone" in French). On the top-right quadrant there is a sailboat at sea. On the bottom-left quadrant there is a star and a man in the boat. The crest is adorned with green olive branches, derived from Ancient Greece, to symbolize peace and prosperity. It carries the Latin motto "Labor Omnia Vincit" ("Labour conquers all things").

Affiliations
Montfort Secondary School is affiliated to Catholic Junior College. Graduating students may opt to move on to Catholic Junior College with affiliation favours. Affiliation favours improves net L1R5 aggregate score by removing 2 points, the junior college has to be selected as 1st or 1st and 2nd choice school.

Academic information 
Being a government-aided secondary school, Montfort Secondary School offers three academic streams: the four-year Express course, and the five-year Normal Course, comprising Normal (Academic) and Normal (Technical) academic tracks.

O Level Express course 
The Express course is a nationwide four-year programme that leads up to the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Ordinary Level examination.

Academic subjects 
The examinable academic subjects for Singapore-Cambridge GCE Ordinary Level offered by Montfort Secondary School for upper secondary level (via. streaming in secondary 2 level), as of 2017, are listed below.

Notes:
 Subjects indicated with ' * ' are mandatory.
 All students in Singapore are required to undertake a Mother Tongue Language as an examinable subject, as indicated by ' ^ '.
 "SPA" in Pure Science subjects refers to the incorporation of School-based Science Practical Assessment, which 20% of the subject result in the national examination are determined by school-based practical examinations, supervised by the Singapore Examinations and Assessment Board. The SPA Assessment has been replaced by one Practical Assessment in the 2018 O Levels.

Normal Course 
The Normal Course is a nationwide 4-year programme leading to the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Normal Level examination, which runs either the Normal (Academic) curriculum or Normal (Technical) curriculum, abbreviated as N(A) and N(T) respectively.

Normal (Academic) Course 
In the Normal (Academic) course, students offer 5-8 subjects in the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Normal Level examination. Compulsory subjects include:
 English Language
 Mother Tongue Language
 Mathematics
 Combined Humanities
A 5th year leading to the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Ordinary Level examination is available to N(A) students who perform well in their Singapore-Cambridge GCE Normal Level examination. Students can move from one course to another based on their performance and the assessment of the school principal and teachers.
Students who perform exceptionally well are given opportunity to take O level Mathematics and/or Mother Tongue in Secondary 4

Normal (Technical) Course 
The Normal (Technical) course prepares students for a technical-vocational education at the Institute of Technical Education. Students will offer 5-7 subjects in the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Normal Level examination. The curriculum is tailored towards strengthening students’ proficiency in English and Mathematics. Students take English Language, Mathematics, Basic Mother Tongue and Computer Applications as compulsory subjects.

Notable alumni 
Montfort Secondary School has a significant Catholic population and it has produced numerous Catholic priests.
 Lim Boon Heng: former cabinet minister from 1980 to 2011
 Lee Boon Yang: former cabinet minister from 1984 to 2011
 Nicholas Chia: archbishop emeritus of Singapore
 William Goh: Archbishop of Singapore and first Singaporean Cardinal
 Lim Tean: politician
 Loh Kean Hean: national badminton player
 Suhaimi Yusof: actor, television presenter and comedian
 Desmond Ng: actor, singer, presenter and businessman
 Ng Kok Song: Singapore Investment Manager, former CIO of the GIC from 2007 to 2013, and candidate for the 2023 Singapore Presidential Election
 Wang Weiliang: Singaporean actor

See also 
 Catholic education in Singapore
 Secondary schools in Singapore

References

External links 

Secondary schools in Singapore
Catholic schools in Singapore
Brothers of Christian Instruction of St Gabriel schools
Montfort Secondary School alumni
Educational institutions established in 1916
Schools in Hougang
1916 establishments in British Malaya