[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1983–84 in English football

the Football League's basement club Chester City 4–2 on aggregate and Lincoln City win on the night at home to Tottenham Hotspur but lose out on aggregate. There is no such joy for Bury, who lose 10–0 to West Ham at Upton Park (12-1 on aggregate) with teenage striker Tony Cottee scoring four goals.

30 October 1983: Manchester United maintain their lead of the First Division with a 3–0 home win over Wolves, who are still winless after 11 games. Leicester City record their first league win of the season with a 2–0 home win over Everton. Tony Woodcock scores five goals in Arsenal's 6–2 away win over Aston Villa. Ian Rush scores five in Liverpool's 6–0 home win over Luton Town. QPR go third with a 3–0 away win over Norwich City. The Abbey Stadium is the scene of a goal glut in the Second Division as Brighton beat Cambridge United 4–3. Chelsea boost their promotion hopes and deal a blow to the visiting side's by defeating Charlton Athletic 3–2 at Stamford Bridge. Peter Beardsley scores a hat-trick in Newcastle's 5–0 home win over Manchester City.

31 October 1983: October draws to a close with Manchester United top of the First Division. Liverpool continue their push for a third successive league title as they stand second, while newly promoted Queens Park Rangers occupy third place, level on points with West Ham United, Southampton and Tottenham Hotspur. Wolverhampton Wanderers, still without a win after 11 games, remain bottom of the table. Leicester City and Notts County complete the bottom three. Sheffield Wednesday are still top of the Second Division, joined in the top three by Newcastle United and Manchester City. Chelsea, Huddersfield Town and Grimsby Town are pushing them hard for promotion.

1 November 1983: Watford sign 20-year-old striker Mo Johnston from Partick Thistle for £200,000.

2 November 1983: Liverpool progress to the quarter-finals of the European Cup at the expense of Spanish champions Atletico Bilbao. Manchester United reach the quarter-finals of the European Cup Winners' Cup with a 4-1 aggregate win over Bulgarian side Spartak Varna. Tottenham eliminate Dutch side Feyenoord 6–2 on aggregate in the second round of the UEFA Cup. Watford eliminate Levski Sofia from the competition and Nottingham Forest oust PSV Eindhoven, but Aston Villa are edged out 4–3 on aggregate by Spartak Moscow.

5 November 1983 – Wolves are bottom of the First Division and still winless after 12 games following a 5–0 defeat at Nottingham Forest. Peter Withe scores twice as Aston Villa inflict a 2–1 defeat on Manchester United at Old Trafford, meaning that Liverpool can return to the top of the table if they win their game tomorrow. Arsenal's erratic form continues as they lose 2–1 at home to Sunderland. There is no shortage of action in the race to reach the First Division. Second Division leaders Sheffield Wednesday maintain a four-point lead at the top of the table by beating Yorkshire rivals Barnsley 2–0 at Hillsborough. Newcastle United win 3–2 at home to Fulham. Manchester City remain in the top three by beating Shrewsbury Town 3–1 at Gay Meadow. Chelsea's promotion push takes a dent when they are held to a 1–1 draw by struggling Oldham at Boundary Park, but they are just three points outside the top three with a game in hand.

6 November 1983 – Liverpool go top of the First Division with a 3–0 win over Everton in the Merseyside derby at Anfield.

10 November 1983 – Everton sign striker Andy Gray from Wolves for £250,000.

12 November 1983 – Liverpool remain top of the First Division despite being held to a 2–2 draw at Tottenham. West Ham keep up the pressure with a 3–0 away win over Wolves, who are still winless after 13 games. Manchester United miss the chance to return to the top of the table when they are held to a 1–1 draw at Leicester. Southampton climb from eighth to fourth with a 1–0 home win over West Bromwich Albion. Arsenal suffer another setback when they lose 1–0 at Ipswich. Brighton's hopes of an instant return to the First Division appear to be fading fast after a 4–0 defeat to Manchester City at Maine Road leaves them 16th in the Second Division. Chelsea close the gap between themselves and the top three with a 4–0 home win over Newcastle United.

16 November 1983: England fail to qualify for the European Championships despite a 4–0 away win over Luxembourg in their final qualifying game, as Denmark win 2–0 in Greece to top the group.