[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Radioactive Dreams

k" Bardo
 Paul Keller Galan as Chester (P.K. Galán)
 Demian Slade as Harold
 Hilary Shepard as Biker Leader (Hilary Shapiro)
 Sue Saad as Punk District Singer
 Kimberly McKillip as Sadie, Hippie Chick
 Gulcin Gilbert as Greaser Chick (Gulshin Gilbert)
 Mark Brown as Greaser
 Russell Price as Greaser

Soundtrack
Most of the songs featured in the film are pop rock in the new wave vein. The exceptions are Zim Bim Zowie, a swing number, and also a tune in the American Songbook style, Daddy's Gonna Boogie Tonight, played on a phonograph during the scene when Philip and Marlowe prepare to leave the fallout shelter. The latter and another track called All Talk were left out of the Australian and German soundtrack releases.

Songs
 Nightmare - Jill Jaxx - 5:10
 Radioactive Dreams - Sue Saad - 5:18
 She'll Burn You - Maureen Steele - 4:13
 Young Thing - Cherri Delight - 4:09
 Tickin' Of The Clock - The Monte Carlos - 2:07
 Psychedelic Man - Shari Saba - 2:41
 Eat You Alive - Lisa Lee - 2:40
 Guilty Pleasures - Sue Saad - 3:44 (Performed by Saad on-screen)
 Turn Away - Mary Ellen Quinn - 2:13
 She's A Fire - Sue Saad - 2:07
 When Lightning Strikes - Sue Saad - 6:51
 Zim Bim Zowie - Darryl Phinessee - 2:20 (Danced-To by Marlowe and Philip as the "Post-Nuke Shuffle" in the closing scene)

However, the soundtrack was also released in Spain containing ALL the songs featured in the film:

The title track is also set to be a bonus track on a digital reissue of Sue Saad's debut album on July 2, 2013.

Release
The film was given a limited release theatrically in the United States by De Laurentiis Entertainment Group in September 1986, grossing $220,038 at the box office.

It was released on VHS by Vestron Video.  As of 2017, the film has still not officially been released on DVD in the US. However, there is a rare German Region 2 Special Edition DVD. This edition also includes the soundtrack CD and is limited to 1,000 copies.

Awards
The film was awarded the Golden Raven at the 5th Brussels International Fantastic Film Festival, and nominated for best film at the Italian film and literature festival MystFest.

See also
 Wasteland (video game), a post-apocalyptic open world role-playing video game series that was heavily inspired by Radioactive Dreams.
 Fallout (series), a video game initially conceived as a "spiritual successor" to Wasteland that eventually turned into its own standalone series (the first game in the Fallout series was made after the initial plans for the sequels Wasteland 2 and Wasteland 3 were compromised due to Electronic Arts' Fountain of Dreams) and borrows even more ideas and design ques from Radioactive Dreams than even Wasteland itself did in the beginning.

References

External links
 
 
 

1985 films
1980s action comedy films
1980s science fiction comedy films
American action comedy films
American adventure comedy films
American science fiction comedy films
American independent films
American parody films
American satirical films
Films directed by Albert Pyun
Films set in 1996
Films set in 2011
Films set in the future
American post-apocalyptic films
De Laurentiis Entertainment Group films
Films about World War III
1985 comedy films
1986 comedy films
1986 films
Films about nuclear war and weapons
1980s English-language films
1980s American films
English-language action comedy films