[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Spirits (TV series)

Spirits is a Philippine television program that was released by ABS-CBN. It aired from December 6, 2004 to May 6, 2005, replacing It Might Be You and was replaced by Mga Anghel na Walang Langit. It also aired on Wednesdays at 9:45pm on Jeepney TV. It is about eight children: Red, Lloyd, Maya, Liz, Jessie, Thor, Nato, and Gabby, who find out one day that they have special abilities unlike normal humans, which they received when a strange epidemic hit their hometown.

Intended to be a prequel to director Chito S. Roño's Spirit Warriors films, Spirits was Roño's television debut, though he had already directed several films.

Synopsis
One day in 1993, a small town is hit by an unknown supernatural epidemic, which only affected children. About a week after the sickness hit, almost every toddler and child in town was affected, and the town hospital was full of children. The same night, the evening sky started to change colors, into a mix of pink, red, and purple. A few hours after the sky changed, a pregnant lady was taken to the hospital, unaware that the baby that she was carrying was an alien. An unknown man knew about the alien, and went to the hospital to kill it, which would mean also killing the mother. The man entered the emergency room, but too late. The alien was born and just as he entered the room, the alien released a bright light in the hospital which killed almost all the children there. The only ones who survived were eight children and the adults.

Cast and characters
According to the plot, the world was composed by three different groups: Mortal, Immortals, and Elementals.

Mortals
Mortals are the group of simple people. Some have powers.

List of Mortals in the Story:

 Red (Rayver Cruz) – the group's de facto leader, and the first of the teens to consider banding together to figure out why there are many "gifted" kids in town. He and six of his friends, who are the most powerful of the "gifted" kids, form the Camera Club. He possesses the power of telekinesis and eventually, later in the series, gained the ability to levitate.
 Gabby (Maja Salvador) – The school's classic overachiever whose sunny ways ensure she is liked by everyone she meets. She is the object of Red's and Lloyd's affections and spends much of the series torn between them. She does not possess any powers.
 Lloyd (John Wayne Sace) – Who can see and communicate with the dead as clearly as the living. In the latter part of the series, as part of the characters' power "upgrades", he is able to project a corporeal double of himself, and later of others.
 Nato (Jiro Manio) – The descendant of a long line of healers who now struggles with his gift of speaking with enchanted creatures, usually duwendes (dwarves). He gains the power of the third eye which enables him to see through illusions. He also gains the power of a gatekeeper and is able to jump between different realms.
 Liz (Serena Dalrymple) – A mind-reader who eventually realizes that the "curse" for reading other people's thoughts is really a gift. Her power eventually grows, enabling her to control minds.
 Thor (Mico Aytona) – The easy-go-lucky class clown who joins the Camera Club for his own not-quite-honest reasons. Though lacking any power, he has helped his friends through many of their adventures and is also ready to help when needed.
 Maya (Michelle Madrigal) – Maya is an empath, a psychic who can sense, understand and absorb another person's emotions and can see the past of anything or anyone through her touch even if that other person is not in the same room (a form of clairvoyance). Maya's powers later improve and she is able to project feelings through her hands, which she has used to inadvertently cause boils to appear on someone's skin.
 Jessie (Joseph Bitangcol) – A more dangerous power lies within resident rebel Jessie, who is Lloyd's cousin, who finds out he can start fires with just his mind. As part of the characters' power "upgrade," he is able to control and manipulate fire
 Kuya Dong (Jhong Hilario) – The school's resident maintenance man and Nato's uncle. He is the only one who knows about Brita and her true plan. He hopes to stop her on his own in order to protect the kids and prevent Brita's rise to power.

Immortals
Immortal are creatures that cannot die.