[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kangura

plied threats against Juvénal Habyarimana, especially after its funders moved from the MRND to the CDR.  The December 1993 issue stated that a Hutu soldier enraged by the Arusha Accords would soon assassinate the president.  The January 1994 issue predicted that Habyarimana would be killed in March.

Aftermath
Kangura had stopped publishing by 6 April 1994, when the plane carrying Presidents Habyarimana and Cyprien Ntaryamira of Burundi was shot down over Kigali.  This sparked the genocide. Over 800,000 people were killed, mostly Tutsis but including Hutu moderates  who attempted to protect Tutsi from the militias. 

Hassan Ngeze, the founder, editor and accountant for Kangura fled the country as the RPF took control.  He was arrested in 1997 and charged by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda for his involvement with Kangura, as well as for his supervision of massacres in his home province of Gisenyi.  His trial, grouped with that of RTLM co-founders Ferdinand Nahimana and Jean-Bosco Barayagwiza, was the first to establish that media organizations could be held responsible for inciting genocide since the 1946 conviction of Nazi publisher Julius Streicher.  In 2003, Ngeze was sentenced to life imprisonment; Nahimana and Barayagwiza were also convicted.

See also

Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM)
Der Sturmer
Kanguka

References

External links
Complete collection

https://www.idrc.ca/en/book/media-and-rwanda-genocide "Kangura: the triumph of propaganda refined"] by Marcel Kabanda, in Allan Thompson, ed., The Media and the Rwanda Genocide, Pluto Press: London, 2007, 
RwandaFile: Articles from Kangura, in English, French and Kinyarwanda

1990 establishments in Rwanda
1994 disestablishments in Rwanda
Magazines published in Africa
Defunct magazines published in Rwanda
Defunct political magazines
Far-right politics in Africa
French-language magazines
Magazines established in 1990
Magazines disestablished in 1994
Propaganda in Rwanda
Rwandan genocide
Magazines published in Rwanda
Hutu
Incitement to genocide