[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Christian Tybring-Gjedde

Christian Tybring-Gjedde (born 8 August 1963) is a Norwegian politician who represents the Progress Party. He has been a member of the Norwegian parliament since 2005, and was the leader of the Progress Party's Oslo chapter from 2010 to 2014.

He is most widely known for his opposition to immigration, especially Muslim immigration, and rejects the scientific consensus on climate change. He believes immigration policy to be the single most important political issue facing Norwegian society. In 2014 he released his book about immigration politics titled Mens orkesteret fortsetter å spille (While the orchestra continues to play). In 2018 and 2020 he put forward U.S. President Donald Trump as a candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize; any member of parliament may propose candidates.

He has been described by some media commentators and scholars as far-right, anti-immigrant and Islamophobic, and is a leading figure in a party faction that seeks to declare Norway a patriotic beacon. Previously, his pro-Russian views were criticised by Norwegian conservatives, but since the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine he has sided with Ukraine and NATO against "Russian imperialism" and Russia's "brutal and unprovoced attack".  The Local Norway describes him as "one of Norway's most controversial anti-immigration politicians" and political scientist Sindre Bangstad has described him as one of the "main traffickers in extreme right-wing rhetorical tropes about Islam and Muslims" in Norway. Tybring-Gjedde was a civil servant in the Ministry of Defence before he entered politics.

Early life, education and work
Christian Tybring-Gjedde was born in Oslo to businessman Harald Tybring-Gjedde (born 1930) and Irene Mathilde Falch (born 1930). His father was the owner of an office supply company founded by Christian's grandfather Carl in 1918, until selling the family business in 2001. He was raised in Sandvika in the Bærum municipality near Oslo's west-end, attending primary school at Jong Elementary school from 1970 to 1976, and upper secondary school at Kristelig Gymnasium from 1976 to 1982.

An active water polo player (playing as goalkeeper), he was granted an athletic scholarship to study in the United States in 1984. He studied at the Loyola University Chicago from 1984 to 1988, and achieved a bachelor's degree in political science. From 1988 to 1990 he studied at the University of Denver, Colorado, achieving a master's degree in international studies. He later attended the NATO Defense College in Rome from 1996 to 1997. He won the Norwegian championship with the Frogner water polo club in 1992, and has been picked out for the national water polo team.

Between 1993 and 2005 he was employed in the Norwegian Ministry of Defence, from 2002 as Assistant Director-General, including three years with the Norwegian delegation to NATO in Brussels. As a senior civil servant, he had to quit his job to stand as a candidate for the 2005 parliamentary election, while only willing to do so if nominated for his party's third spot in Oslo.

Political career
Tybring-Gjedde has been a member of the anti-immigration Progress Party since 1979, when he was attending secondary school. He was elected to his first public office in the 2003 local elections for the Oslo city council, while having been deputy chairman of the party's Oslo chapter from 2001 until then. He held the local office until 2005 when he was elected to parliament, having secured the party nomination after Geir Mo dropped out from the contest for the third place on its Oslo list (the top two spots taken by Siv Jensen and Carl I. Hagen). He was reelected to parliament in 2009 and in 2013 on a more secure second spot only behind party leader Jensen. For his first two terms he served as a member of the Standing Committee on Finance and Economic Affairs, and since 2013 he has been a member of the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence.

Tybring-Gjedde was the leader of the Progress Party's Oslo chapter from 2010, until announcing his withdrawal in 2014. Following the Progress Party's government entrance in 2013, Tybring-Gjedde has been outspoken in his belief that the party has compromised too much on the immigration issue. As the only Progress Party member of parliament, he voted against the government's finalised immigration agreement with the Liberal and Christian Democratic parties, and later wrote a letter to the Progress Party leadership requesting to be allowed to vote according to his own persuasion on immigration-issues in parliament; dissatisfied with the response, he claimed he would "give up" immigration politics. He did not attend the party's 2014 national convention, considering he had "no tasks" there, and announced he would publish a book later that year. The conflict has prompted media speculation that he may be on his way to leaving the party, although he has rejected this himself.