[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 36th Iowa Infantry Regiment

of gloom and foreboding in the federal camp as they lay there immobile on Sunday afternoon. As it was, Drake posted cavalry squads of 25 troopers each 2 miles to his front and 5 miles to his rear on Sunday, with orders for them to scout all roads for 5 miles in all directions at daybreak on Monday.

Sunday night passed without incident and, having received no reports of the enemy from his scouts on Monday morning, Drake ordered the march resumed. The 43rd Indiana Infantry Regiment was deployed to lead the way, while the 36th Iowa marched on the flank of the wagons. Drake ordered the 77th Ohio to form the rear-guard and that regiment lagged almost 3 miles to the rear. As the column crossed the Moro Bottom with difficulty and headed to higher ground, federal scouts informed Major Wesley Norris commanding the 43rd Indiana that they had discovered signs of large, hastily abandoned cavalry encampments to their immediate front. Norris sent a report back to Drake, who dismissed it rather curtly and sent forward orders for the 43rd to pick up the pace. A short distance further, in a clearing at a fork in the road occupied by a few log cabins, the 43rd Indiana was fired on by dismounted rebel cavalry from General Fagan's command. Fagan had evaded Union scouts the previous night by crossing the Ouachita River below Camden and making a forced march (52 miles) to get into position ahead of Drake's train between the Moro and Pine Bluff. That morning they were lying in ambush near the crossroad clearing, known as Mark's Mills, just east of present-day Fordyce in Cleveland County.

Forming line of battle, the 43rd Indiana's Norris ordered his command to charge Fagan's dismounted cavalry. As the charge commenced, Confederate General William Cabell's mounted cavalry revealed itself from concealed positions in the trees on the south, or right flank. What began as a skirmish at around 8:30 am quickly developed into a very hot firefight with the Federals firing in two directions to beat off the assault. The well-aimed fire from the veteran Federal infantry was devastatingly effective and slowed Fagan's advance. Drake ordered the train to pull off the road into an empty field and then ordered Major Hamilton to deploy the first battalion of the 36th Iowa Infantry up and onto the firing line on the 43rd Indiana's left flank.  Just as this battalion came on line, the Confederates charged the center and took another devastating musket volley from the Federals. Drake then ordered up Peetz's 2nd Missouri Battery at the double-quick. As Peetz's gun crews swung their guns into position, the Federal infantry was ordered to move to both flanks to open a hole in the center.  This was done with alacrity and Peetz's gun crews opened fire on the rebels with grapeshot at less than 200 yards. This stunned the Confederates, resulting in a momentary lull in the battle, but musket fire quickly resumed. As the Iowa and Indiana infantrymen were concentrating on the rebels to their front and right flank. General Jo Shelby's two cavalry brigade swooped down on them from the left flank, where Shelby had waited in reserve for more than an hour.  Three companies of the 36th Iowa, the entire 43rd Indiana and Captain Peetz's battery of the Second Missouri Light Artillery were now pressed on three sides and were in danger of being encircled. Drake ordered the remainder of the 36th Iowa Infantry—five companies commanded by Captain Joseph Bull Gedney—into position at the extreme left flank. Drake sent an order to Gedney to support a cavalry charge into Cabell's troops to push them back, prevent encirclement and attempt a link-up with the 77th Ohio, which was now moving forward to join the battle but still a mile to the rear. Before this message could be delivered however, Drake was wounded and fell from his horse from blood loss. The rebels proceeded to close the trap when Shelby made his charge on Gedney's battalion. The Federal troops were surrounded, it quickly became a confused entanglement of small units fighting small units and then it became, according to Captain Seth Swiggett, "Every man for himself."

Shelby's and Cabell's troopers rushed down on the now disorganized Federals, capturing them in groups of two or three until there was no further resistance. Veteran survivors reported that the battle lasted fully five hours. Some men of the 36th Iowa's first battalion took cover in the log cabins and kept up a withering and deadly fire, holding out from those protected positions until long after the others had surrendered, and until they exhausted their ammunition. When the insurgents threatened to burn the cabins down, the Iowans surrendered. In his after-action report, Cabell stated that 17 prisoners were taken from the larger of the two cabins. According to Captain Swiggett, when capture became certain, most of the Iowa men smashed their rifles against trees rather than hand them over to their captors.