[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Tennessee in the American Civil War

e effectively with his subordinates.

1864
The last major battles came when General John Bell Hood led the Confederates north in November 1864. He was checked at Franklin, and his army was virtually destroyed by George Thomas's greatly superior forces at Nashville in December.

Battles in Tennessee 

 Anthony's Hill
 Bean's Station
 Blountville
 Blue Springs
 Brentwood
 Britton's Lane
 Brown's Ferry
 Bull's Gap
 Campbell's Station
 First Battle of Chattanooga
 Second Battle of Chattanooga
 Third Battle of Chattanooga
 Collierville
 Columbia
 Dandridge
 Dover
 Fair Garden
 Farmington
 Fort Donelson
 Fort Henry
 Fort Pillow
 Fort Sanders (a.k.a. Fort Loudon)
 First Battle of Franklin
 Second Battle of Franklin
 Hartsville
 Hatchie's Bridge (a.k.a. Davis Bridge or Matamoro)
 Hoover's Gap
 Island Number Ten
 Jackson
 Johnsonville
 Lebanon
 Lexington
 Liberty Gap
 First Battle of Memphis
 Second Battle of Memphis
Morristown
 Mossy Creek
 First Battle of Murfreesboro
 Third Battle of Murfreesboro
 Nashville
 Parker's Cross Roads
 Plum Point Bend
 Riggins Hill
 Battle of Rogersville (a.k.a. Big Creek)
 Shiloh
 Spring Hill
 Stones River (a.k.a. Second Battle of Murfreesboro)
 Thompson's Station
 Vaught's Hill (a.k.a. Milton)
 Wauhatchie (a.k.a. Brown's Berry)

Notable Confederate leaders from Tennessee

Notable Union leaders from Tennessee

Government and politics
Fear of subversion was widespread throughout the state. In West and Middle Tennessee it was fear of pro-Union activism, which was countered proactively by numerous local Committees of Safety and Vigilance from 1860 to 1862. They emerged as early as the 1860 Presidential election, and when the war began activists developed an aggressive program to detect and suppress Unionists. The committees set up a spy system, intercepted mail, inspected luggage, forced the enlistment of men into the Confederate Army, confiscated private property, and whenever it seemed necessary lynched enemies of the Confederacy. The committees were disbanded by the Union Army when it took control in 1862.

Unionism and East Tennessee

East Tennessee was a stronghold of Unionism; most slaves were house servants—luxuries—rather than the base of plantation operations. East Tennesseans feared that they would become second-class citizens in a country with a slave-owning aristocracy. The dominant mood strongly opposed secession. Tennesseans representing twenty-six East Tennessee counties met twice in Greeneville and Knoxville and agreed to secede from Tennessee (see East Tennessee Convention of 1861.) They petitioned the state legislature in Nashville, which denied their request to secede and sent Confederate troops under Felix Zollicoffer to occupy East Tennessee and prevent secession. The region thus came under Confederate control from 1861 to 1863. Nevertheless, East Tennessee supplied significant numbers of troops to the Federal army. (See also Nickajack.) Many East Tennesseans engaged in guerrilla warfare against state authorities by burning bridges, cutting telegraph wires, and spying for the North.  East Tennessee became an early base for the Republican Party in the South.  Strong support for the Union challenged the Confederate commanders who controlled East Tennessee for most of the war. Generals Felix K. Zollicoffer, Edmund Kirby Smith, and Sam Jones oscillated between harsh measures and conciliatory gestures to gain support but had little success whether they arrested hundreds of Unionist leaders or allowed men to escape the Confederate draft. Union forces finally captured the region in 1863. General William Sherman's famous March to the Sea saw him personally escorted by the 1st Alabama Cavalry Regiment, which consisted entirely of Unionist southerners. Despite its name, the regiment consisted largely of men from Tennessee.

Economy
Refugees poured into Nashville during the war, because jobs were plentiful in the depots, warehouses, and hospitals serving the war effort, and furthermore, the city was a much safer place than the countryside. Unionists and Confederate sympathizers both flooded in, as did free blacks and escaped slaves, and businessmen from the North. There was little heavy industry in the South but the Western Iron District in Middle Tennessee was the largest iron producer in the Confederacy in 1861. One of the largest operations was the Cumberland Iron Works, which the Confederate War Department tried and failed to protect. Memphis and Nashville, with very large transient populations, had flourishing red light districts. Union wartime regulations forced prostitutes to purchase licenses and pass medical exams, primarily to protect soldiers from venereal disease. Their trade was deregulated once military control ended.