[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# July 1976

ederal government had dropped objections, and granted Lennon green card number A17-597-321.  A commentator for The New York Times summed up the event with the words, "Yesterday, all of John Lennon's troubles seemed so far away and now it looks as though he's here to stay."

July 28, 1976 (Wednesday)

A pair of massive earthquakes killed over 650,000 people in and around the northeastern Chinese city of Tangshan in Heibei province.  At five seconds before 3:43 in the morning local time (19:42:55 on July 27 UTC), a 7.6 magnitude quake struck with an epicenter  below the western side of Tangshan.  Fifteen hours later, at 6:45 in the evening (10:45:36 on July 28 UTC), a 7.0 magnitude aftershock followed. The official death toll would later be tallied, in a by Heibei province officials leaked to the Western press, as 655,237 deaths and 779,000 injuries.  
The record for fastest airspeed was broken for the first time in more than nine years, as Captain Eldon W. Joersz and Major George T. Morgan Jr., both of the U.S. Air Force, departed in an SR-71A Blackbird supersonic reconnaissance jet from Beale Air Force Base in California.  They reached a maximum speed of , becoming the first people to fly faster than 3,500 km/h. The official record has stood for more than 45 years.
The crash of Czechoslovak Airlines Flight 001 killed 76 of the 79 people on board.  The Ilyushin Il-18B turboprop airplane was arriving at Bratislava at the end of a 45-minute flight from Prague and was coming in too quickly when one of the pilots set a thrust reversal on two engines, causing both engines on the right wing of the airplane to fail.  An uncontrollable turn to the right resulted and the aircraft plunged into Lake Zlaté Piesky at 9:37 in the morning.  Only three people survived after being pulled from the plane before it sank.
The Viking 1 lander began the first experiment to find signs of life on another planet as its robot arm scooped up a sample of the fine-grained soil on Mars and poured it into its "automated biological laboratories" built into the spacecraft.  Only one of the three samples reached the organic chemical analyzer.
Born: Jacoby Shaddix, American rock musician in the group Papa Roach;, Mariposa, California
Died: 
Christian Ranucci, 22, convicted child murderer, was executed on the guillotine at a prison in Marseilles.
Maggie Gripenberg, 95, Finnish choreographer

July 29, 1976 (Thursday)
In New York City, the "Son of Sam" pulled a gun from a paper bag, killing Donna Lauria, who had been driven home to her apartment building at 2860 Buhre Avenue in the Westchester Heights section of the Bronx.  The driver, Lauria's friend Jody Valenti, was wounded in the thigh by the killer, who "walked up with a long-barreled pistol, looked directly at them then fired without saying a word."  The attack was the first of a series of attacks that would terrorize the city for more than a year by David Berkowitz, who would be arrested, after five murders, on August 10, 1977.
Tina Anselmi became the first woman ever to serve as a government minister in Italy, as Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti appointed her as Minister of Labor.
Died: 
Mickey Cohen, 62, American mobster, from complications of surgery for stomach cancer.  Cohen, who had been an organized crime leader in the Los Angeles area in the 1940s and 1950s had been paralyzed since 1963, a year after going to prison on charges of income tax evasion, and was released from incarceration in 1972.
John Roselli, 70, American mobster who had testified before a U.S. Senate Select Committee in 1975 about his involvement, along with the late mobster Sam Giancana, in a CIA attempt to assassinated Fidel Castro.  Roselli departed from his sister's home in Plantation, Florida, to play golf and never arrived at his destination. His car was found a few days later in a parking garage at the Miami International Airport, with his golf clubs still in the trunk.  On August 7, two fishermen found his decomposing body in a metal oil barrel that was floating in Biscayne Bay.  Although the barrel had been chopped with holes and weighed down with chains to sink to the bottom of the sea, gases formed by the decomposition process and trapped inside Roselli's body tissue brought him to the surface.