[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ann Pettifor

ee) by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The President of Nigeria, President Obasanjo made her a Member of the Order of the Niger (MON) for her work in leading the campaign to write off billions of dollars of debt owed by Africa's poorest countries. In 2018, she was awarded with the Hannah Arendt Prize.

Works
Pettifor is known for correctly predicting the global financial crises in several publications including in the book The Real World Economic Outlook, and summarised in the New Statesman in an article published on 1 September 2003 entitled "Coming soon: The new poor”. This was followed by her September 2006 book The Coming First World Debt Crisis.

1996: Debt, the Most Potent Form of Slavery: : a discussion of the role of Western lending policies in subordinating the economies of poor countries. Debt Crisis Network.
2000: Kicking the Habit: Finding a Lasting Solution to Addictive Lending and Borrowing and Its Corrupting Side-Effects (Joseph Hanlon & Angela Travis). Jubilee 2000 Coalition.
2001: It Takes Two to Tango: Creditor Co-Responsibility for Argentina's Crisis – and the Need for Independent Resolution (with Liana Cisneros & Alejandro Olmos). New Economics Foundation.
2002: Chapter 9/11?: Resolving International Debtcrises – The Jubilee Framework for International Insolvency. New Economics Foundation. 
2003: The Real World Economic Outlook Palgrave Macmillan. 
2006: The Coming First World Debt Crisis. Palgrave Macmillan. 
2008: The Green New Deal – Joined up policies to solve the triple crunch of credit crises, climate change and high oil prices  New Economics Foundation. 
2013: National Plan for the UK: From Austerity to the Age of the Green New Deal New Economics Foundation 
2014: Just Money: How Society Can Break the Despotic Power of Finance. Commonwealth Publishing.
2017: The Production of Money – How to Break the Power of Bankers, Verso 
2019: The Case for the Green New Deal. Verso

References

External links

 Website of Policy Research in Macroeconomics (PRIME)
 Advocacy International's website

British activists
University of the Witwatersrand alumni
Living people
South African emigrants to the United Kingdom
Members of the Order of the Niger
20th-century South African economists
South African women economists
21st-century  British economists
British women economists
1947 births
Monetary economists