[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Colin Mitchell

d as part of a general cutback in defence spending. In July 1968, Mitchell gave notice of his intention to resign his commission at the end of the year. Although he had not given the customary 7 months' notice required of senior officers, his resignation was accepted with effect from 1 October 1968.

Political career
Once he was a civilian, Mitchell assumed a prominent public role in a "Save the Argylls" campaign to stop the abolition of the regiment. He published a memoir entitled Having Been a Soldier, undertook some freelance journalism and briefly took a job as management trainee with Beaverbrook Newspapers. However, he had become a popular public figure from his time in Aden, and turned this to his advantage when he started a new career in politics. In 1969 he was adopted as the Conservative Party's parliamentary candidate for Aberdeenshire West. This was a Liberal Party-held seat, although the sitting member was retiring at the next election. Mitchell took the seat with a 5,000 vote majority in the 1970 general election. His main opponent in that election was Laura Grimond, wife of former Liberal leader Jo Grimond.

Mitchell was considered to be an energetic and effective constituency MP. He also served for a year as Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Secretary of State for Scotland. However, it became apparent that he was not likely to develop a ministerial career. His main political interest was the British Army, and he was frequently critical of its leadership. In August 1970 he was quoted as having referred to "... those bastards in Whitehall". He gravitated towards the right wing of the Conservative Party, opposing the United Kingdom's membership of the European Economic Community, economic sanctions being placed upon Rhodesia, and the arms embargo on Israel. He also became a prominent member of both the Monday Club and the 'Anglo-Rhodesian Society'. Mitchell became known as a maverick M.P., and was one of 39 Conservatives who defied the Party whip to vote against entry to the EEC in the Commons vote on 28 October 1971. Although never promoted to ministerial office, Mitchell was a high-profile backbench M.P., in demand by society and the media. He was a popular member of the Garrick Club, and was reported to enjoy a "gregarious social life" in London.

In 1973 he was approached by a consortium that was planning to establish a large sporting and agricultural estate in Scotland, which invited him to take a stake in the project and become the project's General-Manager with a generous salary. Mitchell accepted and announced he would not be seeking re-election to Parliament on the basis that he “…could not afford to be an MP". — a remark that would come back to haunt him. He left Parliament at the time of the February 1974 general election, against the advice of both his wife Sue and fellow maverick M.P Tam Dalyell.

1974-1989
The Scottish estate project failed and Mitchell became unemployed. He later stated that giving up his seat in Parliament had been a disastrous mistake. Mitchell spent much of the next 10 years trying to get back into Parliament. He applied to several constituency Conservative Associations, including Bournemouth East in August 1977, but at every selection interview the question was raised as to why he had given up Aberdeenshire West in 1974. No winnable constituency would adopt him. He remained on the fringes of Conservative Party politics, The Times Diary columnist reporting on a meeting of the Monday Club at the 1976 Conservative Party conference where he had made a speech on the subject of Rhodesia:

During this period Mitchell remained sporadically active in a series of consultancies, mostly of a military or security nature. He is known to have provided services to backers of the Mujahideen insurgents in Afghanistan and Contra rebels in Nicaragua. In November 1980, Mitchell praised the Mujahideen as "gallant fighters... expressing themselves, as Afghans know best, in the romantic tradition of sniping, raiding and brigandry." He urged Western leaders to provide them with military training and equipment, and to select "proven guerilla fighters" from their ranks for training as future leaders of Afghanistan. However, Mitchell became increasingly dissatisfied with his situation.

The Halo Trust
In 1989, Mitchell co-founded the Halo Trust (the hazardous areas life-support organization). This non-profit making organization undertook de-mining operations in former war zones. It employed a core of (mostly British and Commonwealth) de-mining experts and a large number of locally recruited and trained personnel. Most of the Halo personnel were former servicemen. Halo became active around the world in areas such as Mozambique, Cambodia and Afghanistan. Mitchell thrived in his work with Halo. It raised his public profile once again, and in a manner that was both positive and uncontroversial.