[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adam Carter

s life during an operation. In the series finale, Adam is revealed to be suicidally depressed, wishing he had died in Fiona's place. But after another panic attack, he is able to pull through, save fellow officer Ros Myers (Hermione Norris), and escape from the Thames Barrier before they both drown.

In the sixth series, Adam has recovered from his breakdown—said to have been caused by post-traumatic stress—after receiving  psychiatric counseling. Despite a brief affair with Ros Myers, he has an affair with Ana Bakhshi (Agni Scott), wife of Iranian Special Consul Dariush Bakhshi (Simon Abkarian). Ana later realises she is pregnant; whether Adam or Dariush is the father of her child is never resolved. Halfway through the series Adam is mugged, and his assailant is seriously injured during their struggle. The man, who is identified as a journalist, later dies, and Adam is wanted for murder. It is later revealed that the man was no journalist; Adam was set up, to prevent his stopping a deal that would have allowed Iran to become a nuclear power. He has a brief affair with Ros, and later fakes her death to protect her from CIA retaliation after it is exposed that she has worked with the anti-American shadow organisation Yalta. In the series six finale, Jo is kidnapped by the Redbacks, the group that tortured Zafar Younis; Adam was revealed to be the ultimate target after being betrayed by Bob Hogan in the CIA. Adam manages to meet with Jo, where he learns that she has been tortured and raped; fearing she will end up like Zafar, Jo begs Adam to kill her. The episode ends on a cliffhanger where it is unclear if Adam went ahead with her request.

In the first episode of the seventh series, Adam works with officer Lucas North (Richard Armitage), newly returned from imprisonment in Russia, to rescue a kidnapped British soldier in London. Also, it is revealed that he did not kill Jo and is looking after her following her ordeal with the Redbacks. Harry Pearce comments that "[Adam] is the only person she trusts." Later, Adam discovers that an Al-Qaeda operative has positioned a car bomb to explode at a Remembrance Sunday ceremony. Adam is able to drive the car to an unpopulated zone, but it explodes just as he exits the car, killing him. It is later revealed that FSB head-of-operations in London, Arkady Kachimov, withheld his knowledge of the bomb plot. Harry Pearce kills him in revenge. Ros Myers succeeds Adam as section chief, and Jo Portman returns to honour his memory.

Conceptual history

The producers were aware that Matthew Macfadyen would leave the series after playing Tom Quinn for two years, and they did not know whether he would return for the first two episodes. An eight- to nine-member team came up with the new character of Adam Carter. They wanted Adam to have a different dynamic than Tom; the producers set up a girlfriend/boyfriend storyline in the first series – with Adam, they wanted him to have a wife (Fiona Carter) who works in the Security Service, since married couples working in that environment are common. They wanted Adam to be more animated and energetic than Tom. Writer Howard Brenton wanted him to have an MI6 background, and have something awful happen to him in the past. Brenton invented the backstory of Syria early on into the third series, which he wanted to revisit in the fourth series.

Early on in the development process, the producers wanted to cast a "brilliant actor" with a strong screen presence. They discussed casting Rupert Penry-Jones for the role of Adam Carter early in the process, though it took months to finally decide to cast him. Though Penry-Jones was aware of Spooks and its success, he had never seen any episodes. To be interested in the role, he spent a weekend catching up on the entire first and second series. He did not take long to decide, since his last leading role was four years previously, in 2000 in the Channel 4 drama North Square. Adam was originally meant to be older, and more "street." When he found acting "street" was too difficult, Penry-Jones acted more like himself. He had to audition three times before the producers included him, four months before filming commenced.

On his first day for filming series three, Penry-Jones participated in a fight scene in the middle of the first episode. He felt a little wary replacing Matthew Macfadyen. After two months of filming, Penry-Jones began to feel more at ease with the role. He felt especially so after he started working for the fourth series. He returned to the fourth series because he thought his character took off by the end of the last series, and wanted to see which direction he would go to next. The crew wanted Adam to go from a "happy-go-lucky" figure to wanting him to deal with things that would make it hard for Adam to be jokey towards the end of the fourth series; this involved Fiona's death.