[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Christian nationalism

journalism, academia, and both municipal and federal bureaucracies. By doing so, demons are framed as advancing social projects that spiritual warriors see as opposing God's plans. These include advances in reproductive and LGBTQ rights and tolerance for non-Christian religions (especially Islam)."

January 6 and beyond 
In the wake of the January 6 attack on the Capitol, the term "Christian nationalism" has become synonymous with white Christian identity politics, a belief system that asserts itself as an integral part of American identity overall. The New York Times notes that historically, "Christian nationalism in America has ... encompassed extremist ideologies". Critics have argued that Christian nationalism promotes racist tendencies, male violence, anti-democratic sentiment, and revisionist history. Christian nationalism in the United States is also linked to political opposition to gun control laws and strong cultural support for interpretations of the Second Amendment that protect the right of individuals to keep and bear arms.

Political analyst Jared Yates Sexton has said: "Republicans recognize that QAnon and Christian nationalism are invaluable tools" and that these belief systems "legitimize antidemocratic actions, political violence, and widespread oppression", which he calls an "incredible threat" that extends beyond Trumpism.

The Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty and the Freedom From Religion Foundation (FFRF) released a 66-page report on February 9, 2022, titled "Christian Nationalism and the January 6, 2021 Insurrection."  It chronicled the use of Christian imagery and language by protestors on Jan. 6, detailed the “various nonprofit groups, lawmakers and clergy who worked together to adorn Jan. 6 and Donald Trump’s effort to overturn his electoral loss with theological fervor,” and discussed the important role that race had to play.  The Congressional Freethought Caucus hosted a virtual briefing of the report on March 17, 2022, called “God is On Our Side: White Christian Nationalism and the Capitol Insurrection.”  Speakers included: Amanda Tyler, Executive Director, Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty; Dr. Samuel L. Perry, Associate Professor of Sociology, University of Oklahoma; Dr. Jemar Tisby, Speaker, Historian, & Author of The Color of Compromise: The Truth about the American Church’s Complicity in Racism; and Andrew Seidel, Vice President of Strategic Communications at Americans United for the Separation of Church and State.  On March 18, 2022, Seidel delivered written testimony to the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, and opened by quoting a statement he originally made on September 19, 2019 at the Religion News Association conference in Las Vegas: “Christian Nationalism is the biggest threat to America today. An existential threat to a government of the people, for the people, and by the people."

Criticisms of significance 
Responding to media analysis about the effects of Trumpism and Christian nationalism following the 2020 presidential election, Professor Daniel Strand, writing for The American Conservative, said that there was a "superficially Christian presence at the January 6 protest" and he criticized claims that Christian nationalism played a central role in the attack on the Capitol. He cited a University of Chicago study which found that "those arrested on January 6 were motivated by the belief that the election was stolen and [influenced by] what they call 'the great replacement' " theory. Strand says the study failed to mention "any explicit religious motivation, let alone theological beliefs about America being a Christian nation".

See also 

 Alt-right
 Antisemitism in Christianity
 Christian democracy
 Christian fascism
 Christian fundamentalism
 Christian Identity
 Christianity and violence
 Christian reconstructionism
 Christian terrorism
 Christian theology
 Dominion theology
 Groypers
 Hindutva
 Kahanism
 Pan-Islamism
 Right-wing terrorism
 Theocracy
 Theonomy

References

Further reading 
 
 Andrew Seidel (14 May 2019). The Founding Myth: Why Christian Nationalism is Un-American. Sterling Publishing. ISBN  978-1-4549-3327-4.
 
 
 
 
 
 Shortle, Allyson F.; McDaniel, Eric L.; Nooruddin, Irfan. 2022.The Everyday Crusade: Christian Nationalism in American Politics. Cambridge University Press

External links 
 Christian Nationalists of America
 
 Minnesota lawmakers' 'Secular Government Caucus' will combat Christian nationalism

Christian nationalism
Christianity and political ideologies
Conservatism
Conservatism in the United States
Dominion theology
Far-right politics
Religious nationalism
Antisemitism
Christianity and politics
Anti-LGBT sentiment
Anti-abortion movements
Alt-right