[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Belizean–Guatemalan territorial dispute

uence by occupation, by exchanging land, colonization, or building fortifications in Central America. This presented a problem for Britain since the last time the settlement's boundaries were negotiated was in 1786, and the local government had unilaterally declared new expansive boundaries by then.

In the Wyke–Aycinena Treaty of 1859, Guatemala agreed to recognize Britain's sovereignty over the area. The treaty derived its boundary from the Belizean magistrates of 20 years prior, stating the boundary line in Article I as follows:The treaty also specified that these borders had been established before 1850, satisfying the 1850 treaty by merely declaring accepted boundaries for the territory, not extending Britain's influence. Article VII of the treaty also talked about a road being built from "Guatemala to the Atlantic Coast, near the settlement of Belize", though it makes no mention of who pays, who builds nor where it is actually placed in between Belize City and Guatemala's capital. This section of the treaty was put in by Wyke, the British negotiator, by himself, surprising the British. Wyke understood the article to mean that half of the burden of building the road was put onto Britain, and the other half onto Guatemala. Aycinena, the Guatemalan negotiator, understood this article meant that the full burden was to be put onto Britain and Britain alone. The next few years were spent negotiating how to implement the road clause.

In 1862, the Bay of Honduras officially became a crown colony under the name British Honduras. By 1869, negotiations had stalled about the road. Guatemala and Britain tried to negotiate an Additional Convention, which Guatemala flatly rejected. Britain, using Guatemala's refusal, declared that they were free from the obligations of building the road. Guatemala did not agree, and stated the treaty was one of cession of territory with compensation being the road. Britain could never agree to the Guatemalan terms since that would break the 1850 Clayton-Bulwer Treaty as it's effectively a land deal. In 1871, Guatemala experienced a Liberal revolution and in 1884, cast doubts on Britain being compliant with the 1859 treaty. Guatemala never officially declared the treaty void at this time, however.

Mexico's claim on British Honduras was dropped in a treaty with Britain in 1893 to end the Caste War. The Rio Hondo was picked as the boundary line between British Honduras and Mexico, solidifying the "Mexican frontier" portion of the 1859 border and providing some legitimacy to the colony.

1930s–1975 
In August 1931, an exchange of notes between the UK and Guatemala reaffirmed the borders from the 1859 treaty. These notes show that Guatemala and the UK wanted to finish the demarcation process of the border in 1929. It is confirmed that both governments' commissioners met and constructed the concrete monument markers for the border. One was constructed on Garbutt's Falls, and another was constructed on Gracias á Dios Falls. The Guatemalan Ministry For Foreign Affairs accepted that these markers were built and defined "part of the boundary line".

Two years later, Guatemala inquired the United Kingdom about complying with Article VII. In 1934, the United Kingdom declared their desire to build a road from Belize City to the edge of Petén, where Guatemala would continue building the road to its capital. Guatemala did not agree to this compromise. Instead, they asked for half of the expense of the road () in 1859, with interest accruing since. Britain, in August 1936, counter offered with half the original 1859 price but no interest and recognition of the 1859 border, which Guatemala did not accept. A month later, President Ubico suggested 3 new proposals:
 Britain should "return" British Honduras to Guatemala in exchange for 
 Britain should pay  to Guatemala and Britain should cede the southern half of British Honduras to Guatemala
 Britain should cede the same section of land in the previous proposal and pay  at a 4% interest rate, with interest accruing from 1859 
The United Kingdom did not agree to any of these proposals, proposing half the original 1859 amount again. Guatemala refused again and then suggested arbitration with the President of the United States as the arbitor. The UK declined and instead suggested that the issue be settled by the Hague Court. Guatemala did not believe that the Hague had the ability to settle the dispute.
The United Kingdom became fed up and refused to continue negotiations. In 1939, Guatemala's Foreign Ministry published a supplementary section to The White Book, which argued that the 1859 treaty had lapsed.

After the overthrow of General Ubico in 1944, Guatemala adopted a new constitution. In the constitution, as a temporary resolution, Guatemala declared British Honduras part of Guatemala and the integration of it into Guatemala as a national interest.