[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1938 in the United Kingdom

.
 15 September – Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain meets German Chancellor Adolf Hitler in Berchtesgaden in an attempt to negotiate an end to German expansionist policies.
 21 September – Representatives of the British and French governments call on Czechoslovak President Edvard Beneš to tell him Britain and France will not fight Hitler if he decides to annex the Sudetenland by force. At home, Winston Churchill warns of grave consequences to European security if Czechoslovakia is partitioned.
 25 September – The Royal Navy ordered to sea.
 27 September –  is launched at Clydebank; she is the largest ship in the world at this time.
 29 September – Chamberlain signs the Munich Agreement; and a resolution with Germany determining to resolve all future disputes between the two countries through peaceful means.
 30 September – Neville Chamberlain returns to the UK from Munich, at Heston Aerodrome memorably waving the resolution signed the day earlier with Germany, and later in Downing Street giving his famous Peace for our time speech. George VI and Queen Elizabeth appear with Chamberlain on the balcony of Buckingham Palace to celebrate the agreement.
 1 October – Picture Post magazine first published.
 29 October – City Hall, Norwich, designed in the Art Deco style by C. H. James and S. R. Pierce, is opened.
 4 November – At a public meeting in his parliamentary constituency of Epping, Winston Churchill narrowly survives an attempt by fellow Conservative and constituent Sir Colin Thornton-Kemsley to remove him from Parliament.
 16 November – First reported "attack" of the Halifax Slasher mass hysteria incident.
 20 November – Queen Maud of Norway (aunt of the King) dies in a nursing home in London aged 68.
 21 November – Apostolic Delegation to Great Britain appointed.
 1–2 December – First Kindertransport from Berlin to London Liverpool Street station via Harwich.
 16 December – aircraft carrier  (launched by Cammell Laird in Birkenhead in 1937 under the 1934 build plan) is commissioned into the Royal Navy.

Undated
 J. Arthur Rank purchases a share in Odeon Cinemas.
 First green belts begin to be established in the UK, around Sheffield and London, the latter under terms of the Green Belt (London and Home Counties) Act.
 Little ringed plover first breeds in England.

Publications
 Elizabeth Bowen's novel The Death of the Heart.
 Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot novels Appointment with Death and Hercule Poirot's Christmas.
 Daphne du Maurier's novel Rebecca.
 Graham Greene's novel Brighton Rock.
 Kathleen Hale's children's book Orlando (The Marmalade Cat): A Camping Holiday, first in the series featuring the eponymous character.
 C. S. Lewis' novel Out of the Silent Planet.
 George Orwell's memoir Homage to Catalonia.
 Evelyn Waugh's novel Scoop.
 T. H. White's novel The Sword in the Stone, first in the twelve-volume The Once and Future King.
 P. G. Wodehouse's novel The Code of the Woosters.