[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Collections Centre

nal papers, photographs, glass plate negatives, company records, technical drawings and other original manuscripts from famous figures and organisations such as the engineering drawings of Charles Babbage and Barnes Wallis as well as papers relating to Donald Campbell and Hooper's car-building firm.

The MS archives are smaller collections of well over two thousand items, ranging in size from single items such as letters and notebooks to small collections comprising a number of items, which provide snapshots of the lives of those who created them. The material provides a wide-ranging source of subject information across the science, design and technology disciplines, as well as insights into the day-to-day lives of individuals and families

Amongst the library and archives holdings are:
 Charles Babbage's notebooks, engineering plans, certificates, social diary and letters.
 Barnes Wallis’s plans for the bouncing bomb.
 Pearson PLC engineering papers and photographs.
 Walt Patterson nuclear collection.
 Humphry Davy's letters. 
 George Parker Bidder's papers. 
The New Cyclopaedia, or, Universal Dictionary of the Arts and Sciences. (Rees's Cyclopædia)

Sustainability 
In April 2021 the Science Museum Group announced that it is targeting to achieve overall Net Zero / Carbon Neutrality by 2033. The National Collections Centre site hosts one of the UK's largest solar farms, completed in 2016, which is capable of generating close to 50GW of energy per year, four times more than that consumed by the Science Museum Group as a whole.

Other activities at the site
The National Collections centre is regularly used for research and development, films and television, storage for other culture sector partners and testing of equipment for new technology and energy projects.

Inserts for the television series, The Grand Tour were filmed on the streets surrounding the museum from 2016 to 2019.

See also
 List of museums in Wiltshire

References

External links

Science Museum Group Archive catalogue
Science Museum Library catalogue

1979 establishments in England
Museums established in 1979
Wroughton
Wroughton
Industry museums in England
Science museums in England
Museums in Wiltshire
Libraries in Wiltshire
Archives in Wiltshire
Science Museum Group