[Source: PubMed]

8. Br J Anaesth. 2022 Feb;128(2):e127-e134. doi: 10.1016/j.bja.2021.10.007. Epub 
2021 Nov 10.

Injury scoring systems for blast injuries: a narrative review.

Hazell GA(1), Pearce AP(2), Hepper AE(3), Bull AMJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Blast Injury Studies, Imperial College London, London, UK. 
Electronic address: george.hazell16@imperial.ac.uk.
(2)Department of General Surgery, The Royal London Hospital, Barts NHS Trust, 
London, UK.
(3)Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, Porton Down, Salisbury, UK.
(4)Centre for Blast Injury Studies, Imperial College London, London, UK.

Injury scoring systems can be used for triaging, predicting morbidity and 
mortality, and prognosis in mass casualty incidents. Recent conflicts and 
civilian incidents have highlighted the unique nature of blast injuries, 
exposing deficiencies in current scoring systems. Here, we classify and describe 
deficiencies with current systems used for blast injury. Although current 
scoring systems highlight survival trends for populations, there are several 
major limitations. The reliable prediction of mortality on an individual basis 
is inaccurate. Other limitations include the saturation effect (where scoring 
systems are unable to discriminate between high injury score individuals), the 
effect of the overall injury burden, lack of precision in discriminating between 
mechanisms of injury, and a lack of data underpinning scoring system 
coefficients. Other factors influence outcomes, including the level of 
healthcare and the delay between injury and presentation. We recommend that a 
new score incorporates the severity of injuries with the mechanism of blast 
injury. This may include refined or additional codes, severity scores, or both, 
being added to the Abbreviated Injury Scale for high-frequency, blast-specific 
injuries; weighting for body regions associated with a higher risk for death; 
and blast-specific trauma coefficients. Finally, the saturation effect (maximum 
value) should be removed, which would enable the classification of more severe 
constellations of injury. An early accurate assessment of blast injury may 
improve management of mass casualty incidents.

Copyright © 2021 British Journal of Anaesthesia. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bja.2021.10.007
PMID: 34774294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]