[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cudjoe Lewis

d Lewis and the other survivors for her 1914 book Historic Sketches of the South. She described their capture in Africa, enslavement, and lives in Africatown. They requested that she use their African names in her work, in the hope that it might reach their homeland "where some might remember them."

By 1925, Lewis was thought to be the last African survivor of the Clotilda; he was interviewed by educator and folklorist Arthur Huff Fauset of Philadelphia. In 1927 Fauset published two of Lewis' animal tales, "T'appin's magic dipper and whip" and "T'appin fooled by Billy Goat's eyes," and "Lion Hunt," his autobiographical account about hunting in Africa, in the Journal of American Folklore.

In 1927 Lewis was interviewed by Zora Neale Hurston, then a graduate student in anthropology who became a folklorist. The next year she published an article, "Cudjoe's Own Story of the Last African Slaver" (1928). According to her biographer Robert E. Hemenway, this piece largely plagiarized Emma Roche's work, although Hurston added information about daily life in Lewis' home village of Banté.

In 1928 Hurston returned with additional resources; she conducted more interviews with Kossula, took photographs, and recorded what was thought to be the only known film footage of an African who had been trafficked to the United States through the slave trade (though one other Clotilda survivor, who outlived him, has also been filmed briefly). Based on this material, she wrote a manuscript, Barracoon, which Hemenway described as "a highly dramatic, semifictionalized narrative intended for the popular reader."

After this round of interviews, Hurston's literary patron, philanthropist Charlotte Osgood Mason, learned of Lewis and began to send him money for his support. Lewis was also interviewed by journalists for local and national publications.

Hurston's book Barracoon: The Story of the Last "Black Cargo" was not published until 2018, in an annotated edition.

Legacy 
Cudjo Lewis died on July 17, 1935, and was buried at the Plateau Cemetery in Africatown. Since his death, his status as one of the last survivors of the Clotilda, and the written record created by his interviewers, have made him a public figure of the history of the community.

In 1959 a memorial bust of Lewis was erected in front of Africatown's Union Missionary Baptist Church atop a pyramid of bricks that had been made by the Clotilda captives. It was made on behalf of the Progressive League of Africatown. 
In 1977 the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History (now the Association for the Study of African American Life and History) commemorated Lewis and the Clotilda group.  
Around 1990 the City of Mobile and Mobile alumnae chapter of Delta Sigma Theta sorority erected a commemorative marker for Lewis in the Plateau Cemetery.
In 2007 two African filmmakers donated a bust of Lewis to the Africatown Welcome Center. It was severely damaged by vandalism in 2011.
In 2010, archaeologists from the College of William and Mary excavated Lewis' homesite in Africatown, along with those of two other residents, to search for artifacts and evidence of African practices in the founders' daily lives in the United States.
Barracoon: The Story of the Last "Black Cargo", Zora Neale Hurston's account of Lewis' life, was published for the first time in 2018.

See also
 List of slaves
List of the last surviving American slaves
Yoruba Americans

Notes

References

 Felix Kuadugah- contributor Child naming among Gbe speaking tribes

Bibliography

External links

 Zora Neale Hurston, 1928 film footage (first 40 seconds may depict Cudjo Kossola Lewis), YouTube.

1840s births
1935 deaths
African slave trade
American people of Beninese descent
19th-century American slaves
Beninese-American history
People from Mobile, Alabama
American people of Yoruba descent
Yoruba slaves
People from Collines Department
African-American farmers
Farmers from Alabama
Yoruba farmers
African-American historians
Yoruba historians
Burials in Alabama
19th-century American people
Baptists from Alabama
19th-century Baptists
20th-century Baptists
African-American Christians
Yoruba-American history
20th-century American historians
Academics from Alabama
20th-century African-American people
Naturalized citizens of the United States