[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Energy security

Energy security is the association between national security and the availability of natural resources for energy consumption (as opposed to household energy insecurity). Access to cheaper energy has become essential to the functioning of modern economies. However, the uneven distribution of energy supplies among countries has led to significant vulnerabilities. International energy relations have contributed to the globalization of the world leading to energy security and energy vulnerability at the same time.

Renewable resources and significant opportunities for energy efficiency and transitions exist over wide geographical areas, in contrast to other energy sources, which are concentrated in a limited number of countries. Rapid deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency, and technological diversification of energy sources, would result in significant energy security.

Threats
The modern world relies on a vast energy supply to fuel anything from transportation to communication, to security and health delivery systems. Peak oil expert Michael Ruppert has claimed that for every kilocalorie of food produced in the industrial world, 10 kilocalories of oil and gas energy are invested in the forms of fertilizer, pesticide, packaging, transportation, and running farm equipment.
Energy plays an important role in the national security of any given country as a fuel to power the economic engine.
Some sectors rely on energy more heavily than others; for example, the Department of Defense relies on petroleum for approximately 77% of its energy needs. Not every sector is as critical as the others. Some have greater importance to energy security.

Threats to a nation's energy security include:
 Political/Domestic instability of major energy-producing countries  (e.g. change in leadership's environmental values, or regime change)
 Reliance on foreign countries for oil
 Foreign in-state conflict (e.g. religious civil wars)
 Foreign exporters' interests (e.g. Quid Pro Quo/blackmail/extortion)
 Foreign non-state actors targeting the supply and transportation of oil resources  (e.g. theft)
 Manipulation of energy supplies (e.g. mega-corporation or state-backed racketeering)
 Competition over energy sources (e.g. biofuel(biodiesel, bioethanol) vs oil(crude, distilled fuel) vs coal vs natural gas vs nuclear vs wind vs solar vs hydro(dam, pumped))
 Unreliable energy stores (e.g. long time to spin a turbine to create power, or Li-ion battery grid explosion, or pumped hydro dam becoming clogged)
 Attacks on supply infrastructure (e.g. hackers stopping flow pumps inside a pipeline or intentionally surging an electrical grid to over/underload it) 
 Terrorism (e.g. napalming oil and/or fuel reserves)
 Accidents (e.g. shoddy weld causing debris buildup in a pipeline)
 Natural disasters (e.g. wind turbine collapsing from a major earthquake)

Political and economic instability caused by war or other factors, such as strike action, can also prevent the proper functioning of the energy industry in a supplier country. For example, the nationalization of oil in Venezuela has triggered strikes and protests in which Venezuela's oil production rates have yet to recover.
Exporters may have political or economic incentive to limit their foreign sales or cause disruptions in the supply chain. Since Venezuela's nationalization of oil, anti-American Hugo Chávez threatened to cut off supplies to the United States more than once.

The 1973 oil embargo against the United States is an historical example in which oil supplies were cut off to the United States due to U.S. support of Israel during the Yom Kippur War. This has been done to apply pressure during economic negotiations—such as during the 2007 Russia–Belarus energy dispute. Terrorist attacks targeting oil facilities, pipelines, tankers, refineries, and oil fields are so common they are referred to as "industry risks".
 Infrastructure for producing the resource is extremely vulnerable to sabotage.  One of the worst risks to oil transportation is the exposure of the five ocean chokepoints, like the Iranian-controlled Strait of Hormuz. Anthony Cordesman, a scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C., warns, "It may take only one asymmetric or conventional attack on a Ghawar Saudi oil field or tankers in the Strait of Hormuz to throw the market into a spiral."

New threats to energy security have emerged in the form of the increased world competition for energy resources due to the increased pace of industrialization in  countries such as India and China, as well as due to the increasing consequences of climate change.

Although still a minority concern, the possibility of price rises resulting from the peaking of world oil production is also starting to attract the attention of at least the French government.