[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pardee Butler

dismounting a colt that refused to be bridled he was kicked in the right foot crushing the ankle. The family feared no worse than a crippled ankle. The first week was hopeful. The second week he was delirious. He soon fell into an unconscious stuper and died on October 19 at the age of seventy-two.

Politics 
The Republican Party was begun in the early 1850s by anti-slavery activists. Pardee Butler was one of the organizers of the Republican Party in Kansas in May and June 1856. In 1856 the Republicans became a national party when John C. Fremont was nominated for President. In 1860 Abraham Lincoln became the first Republican president.

There is a family story about Pardee Butler and Abraham Lincoln that is related by Heywood Broun in one of his It Seems to Me columns that appeared in the New York Graphic in March 1936.

The Rev. Pardee Butler was a mighty man in debate and a most skillful propagandist. He wrote the free soil constitution for the State of Kansas, and in the eyes of some historians he is identified as the actual founder of the Republican party. ... His family treasures an anecdote of his return home after an oratorical foray.

"Were there any other speakers?" asked his wife.

"Other speakers!" snorted the Rev. Pardee Butler, who was accustomed to open and close meetings himself. But then he was reminded of an incident. "Oh, yes," he said, "when I got done we heard a few words from a young Springfield lawyer named Lincoln."

Butler was active in the presidential campaign of 1872 speaking at the Republican State Congressional Convention at Lawrence and serving as an elector.

Though often urged by his friends to run for office, Butler invariably refused telling them "...he considered the office of a Christian preacher the highest office on earth."

Notes

Further reading

External links 
 
 
 Kansas, a Cyclopedia of State History (1912)

Abolitionists from Kansas
Accidental deaths in Kansas
1816 births
1888 deaths
Kansas Republicans
American temperance activists
People from Medina County, Ohio
19th-century American people
Farmers from Kansas
Tarring and feathering in the United States