[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Karim Ahmad Khan

on of their interest in the achievement of accountability for crimes to which they have been subjected; to respect the sovereignty of the Government  of Iraq in performing this investigation.

Khan met with government, religious, and community leadership across Iraq as part of his mandate at UNITAD.

In February 2021, Khan was elected chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court on a nine-year term during the second round of voting, receiving votes from 72 out of 123 member states (62 needed). Khan was the third chief prosecutor elected in the ICC's history, and the first one elected by secret ballot. Khan had been nominated by the United Kingdom. He took office in June 2021, replacing Fatou Bensouda.

In September 2021, he resumes the investigation into crimes committed by the Taliban and the Islamic State in Khorassan in Afghanistan which had been suspended in the spring  2020 at the request of the government of Kabul.  On the other hand, the prosecutor decides to "set aside priorities" the investigations relating to the war crimes in Afghanistan committed by international forces, especially the US, since 2003. He justifies this choice by the limited financial means of the ICC.

In April 2022, Khan said of the war in Ukraine: "We have reasonable grounds to believe that crimes within the jurisdiction of the court are being committed." Eleven months later, he successfully applied for two arrest warrants alleging Vladimir Putin and Maria Lvova-Belova violated two Rome Statute rules against systematic deportation, transfer and hostage-taking. In response, Russia issued a warrant for Khan's arrest.

During the 2023 Israel–Hamas war, Khan suggested that both Israel and Hamas could be prosecuted by the ICC.

Other activities

Between 1996 and 1997, Khan was a member of the Law Commission of England and Wales. He is a life member of the Human Rights Institute, International Bar Association (IBA), and a founding director of the Peace and Justice Initiative, a Hague-based NGO focused on effective implementation of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court at national levels.

Khan served until 2018 as a member of the executive council and the victims committee of the International Criminal Court Bar Association, and he was the president of the ICCBA from June 2017 to June 2018. At the end of his tenure, Khan was appointed the first honorary president of the ICCBA. In July 2018, he was recognised as a worldwide ambassador of the African Bar Association.

Khan was appointed Queen's Counsel in 2011. He is a member of Temple Garden Chambers London.

Personal life

Khan’s father, a consultant dermatologist, was born in Mardan, British India (now Pakistan). His mother, a state registered nurse, was born in the UK. His wife Yasmine Rehman Mona is the daughter of Mirza Tahir Ahmad from whom he has two sons, Jalees and Jahanzayb.  He has a sister and two brothers, one of whom is the former Conservative British MP and convicted sex offender Imran Ahmad Khan.

References

External links

1970 births
Living people
Lawyers from Edinburgh
International Criminal Court prosecutors
British prosecutors
Members of Lincoln's Inn
21st-century King's Counsel
English King's Counsel
British lawyers of Pakistani descent
British Ahmadis
People educated at Silcoates School
Alumni of King's College London
Associates of King's College London
20th-century British lawyers
21st-century British lawyers
Fugitives wanted by Russia