[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cathy Small

the people they want to associate with and plan their schedules around these friends. As a result, the university's efforts to create a community were often unappealing to students and, therefore, unsuccessful. Small noted that many of the ego-centered networks change frequently or are short-lived.

My Freshman Year stimulated discussions about the perceived intellectual laziness of university students. Small learned that academics were a small part of the typical student's day; most students indicated that they learned more from their social interactions. Students had difficulties engaging in university life if they lacked adequate financial support. Most students in Small's study worked while attending college. Rather than participating in political, philosophical, or intellectual classes and activities, these working students prioritized courses that promised to help them repay heavy student loans. The students also spent a lot of time discussing bodily functions.

A month before the book's release, New York Sun journalist Jacob Gershman reviewed My Freshman Year and correctly guessed the university and professor behind the pseudonyms. Gershman wrote, “Ms. Nathan, whether by choice or accident, also planted in her ethnographic study many clues about her identity." The book became the subject of a media frenzy. Small and Northern Arizona University admitted their connection to the book after a few days.

My Freshman Year started debates about the ethics of "going undercover" in research. Some questioned Smart's career motives for writing the book. Using pen names in anthropology has several precedents, including Elenore Smith Bowen (Laura Bohannan) and Cesara Manda (Karla Poewe). Similar ethnographic studies of student life have precedents, the most well-known being by Michael Moffatt and the team of Dorothy C. Holland and Margaret A. Eisenhart. However, Small was the first anthropologist to use pseudonyms to protect her informants, while also raising the issue of secrecy and ethnographic ethics in the same book. Small noted that she consulted the American Anthropological Association's Code of Ethics before developing her study, one critic noted that her "covert ethnography" was in direct opposition to the professional code that calls for openness with participants.

Small said the experience gave her more empathy for students and changed her approach to teaching.

Homelessness 
In 2020, Small published The Man in the Dog Park: Coming Up Close to Homelessness with Cornell University Press. Her inspiration for the book was her ten-year relationship with Ross Moore, a disabled Vietnam veteran who experienced homelessness. Moore is a co-author of the book. Small writes, "As a society, we create the conditions for a slippery slope causing countless individuals to slide into homelessness, yet we disavow the results. This is the great delusion, really, that some win, some lose, but the laws, institutions, and policies we support (or fail to support) have little to do with it."

Community service 
In 1993, Small developed a catalog so the Hopi Arts & Crafts Coop Guild could their crafts directly to consumers.

Small founded Pipeline Northern Arizona University after reading that Arizona had the second highest high school dropout rate in the United States. Pipeline NAU is a partnership between the university, Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Northern Arizona, and Flagstaff Unified School District No. 1. It pairs seventh-grade students with an NAU faculty or staff member who serves as a mentor for five years. Pipeline NAU started with the 1998–99 school year. Students who finish the program receive a four-year full scholarship to Northern Arizona University.

Awards and honors
In 1997, Small received a grant from the National Science Foundation to model and simulate Polynesian social systems. She received the American Anthropology Association/Oxford University Press Award for Undergraduate Teaching of Anthropology for the 2008–09 academic year. She also received the Praxis Award for Excellence in Applied Anthropology.

For her work with Pipeline NAU, Small received the National Points of Light Award, the Arizona Governor's Special Recognition, and the Best Educational Practices in Post-Secondary Education in the State of Arizona Award.

Personal life 
Small is unmarried and does not have children. She practices Judaism. She has practiced vipassana meditation for more than twenty years and has taught meditation since 2010. She teaches meditation at the Flagstaff Insight Meditation Community in Flagstaff, Arizona. Each semester, she also co-teachers a six-week-long mindfulness course at Northern Arizona University for faculty, staff, and community members.

Selected publications