[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephanus Jacobus du Toit

.  In 1883–4, he was part of Kruger's delegation to Europe and helped negotiate the London Convention. In 1875, while in the Transvaal, he was appointed official translator of the Bible by the GRA, a task for which he received official encouragement from the government of the South African Republic.

He resigned in 1888 due to a personality clash with Willem Johannes Leyds, a newly appointed advisor to Kruger. After his resignation, he returned to the Cape Colony and publicly took over the post of editor of Die Patriot, breaking with his brother and other members of the Afrikaner Bond. He was personally bankrupt, having lost money in speculation while in the Transvaal. Under his editorship Die Patriot adopted a much more conciliatory stance towards the British Government, possibly as a result of financial backing he received from Cecil Rhodes, though this is disputed.

He continued his translation of the Bible into Afrikaans, following the principals of translation laid down by the Synod of Dordrecht requiring the use of the original Hebrew or Greek where appropriate. He succeeded in translating the Book of Genesis, the Psalms, the Songs of Solomon, Book of Joshua, the Gospel according to Matthew, the Gospel according to Mark, the Acts of the Apostles and the Book of Revelation. Du Toit's translation program was not well received—neither the synod of the NGK in Orange Free State in 1885 nor the synod of the NGK in the South African Republic in 1886 supported Du Toit's efforts. By 1890 the Eerste Taalbeweging (first language movement) was all but dead.

His son Jakob Daniël du Toit, known by the pen name Totius, a member of the Tweede Taalbeweging (second language movement), completed the translation in 1933 with assistance from his own son Stephanus du Toit (1905–1982).

The Jameson Raid of 1896 caused the Afrikaner Bond to break with Rhodes. Du Toit broke with the Afrikaner Bond and through Die Afrikaanse Patriot backed Rhodes both in the Jameson Raid and in the Second Anglo-Boer War. He stood for the Cape Parliament in 1898 but failed to get elected. In 1904, following financial problems DF du Toit & Co, the company that owned Die Afrikaanse Patriot was sold and the paper was succeeded by the Paarl Post.

Du Toit died on 25 May 1911 as a result of injuries sustained in August the previous year when the cart in which he was travelling overturned while he was journeying to Calvinia to visit one of his congregations.

Legacy
Du Toit was a prolific writer – the anonymous author of the epitaph on his tombstone described him as "The father of the Afrikaans language", though this honour has also be given to Pannevis, to Hoogenhout or to all three. His contributions to Afrikaans literature included:
 1876 – Erste Beginsels van die Afrikaanse Taal [Fundamentals of the Afrikaans language] (A joint work of which Du Toit was the main contributor).
1877 – (With Hoogenhout and Malherbe) Die Geskiedenis van ons Land in die Taal van ons Volk [The history of our country and the language of our people].
 1889 – Die Bybel in Afrikaans [The Bible in Afrikaans] (A brochure with a translation of the first three chapters of the Book of Genesis).
 1893 – Genesis (translation of the Book of Genesis)
 1895 – Mattheus (translation of the Gospel according to St Mathew)
 1898 – Openbaring (translation of the Book of Revelation)
 1902 – Patriot woordeboek: Afrikaans-Engels [Patriot dictionary: Afrikaans-English]
 1907 – Die Psalms (translation of the Psalms)

Sources
This Day in South African History
Encyclopædia Britannica

References 

Afrikaner people
South African politicians
Translators of the Bible into Afrikaans
Afrikaner nationalists
1847 births
1911 deaths
Cape Colony people
South African journalists
19th-century South African politicians
19th-century translators