[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anchor Line (riverboat company)

portion of the cargo transported by steamboats such as those of the Anchor Line, thus also cutting off a sizable portion of the steamboats' business. The early 1890s, particularly 1892 and 1894, seem to have been years where conditions on the river significantly affected the Anchor Line's business.

Competition from railroads 
Added to the problems inherent with river traffic was the increasingly expanding railroad network in the United States, which soon came into direct competition with steamboats for business, both from passengers and from cargo. Rail travel was not subject to the dictates of the river's course (tracks could be laid on ground virtually anywhere in the Mississippi valley), servicing directly more towns than any steamboat could. Trains were generally safer than steamboats, as well, being not prone to snags, sandbars, ice, or other problems particular to river travel. Finally, trains were faster, as they generally traveled much quicker than the 15 mph (24.3 km/h) averaged by late-nineteenth-century Anchor Line boats.

The 1896 tornado 

Historians say that the Anchor Line was ultimately doomed by the 1896 St. Louis–East St. Louis tornado that struck on May 27. The tornado touched down in the core of St. Louis and swept eastward across the river into East St. Louis, Illinois. The resulting death toll was a confirmed 255 people, though estimates put the number at close to 400. This is in part because the Anchor Line's floating palaces (as well as other steamboats) stationed at the St. Louis landing lay directly in the tornado's path. The Anchor Line's boats the Arkansas City and the City of Cairo were completely destroyed, and the City of Monroe was badly damaged.

Later that year the company launched another boat, the Bluff City. In 1897, the Anchor Line repaired, extended, and installed electric lights on the City of Monroe, renaming it the Hill City. It issued a 22-page brochure, titled A Romantic Trip to the Sunny South, in an attempt to lure passengers.  Nonetheless, that same year the Bluff City was destroyed by fire, the Belle Memphis was irreparably damaged by a snag, and the City of Hickman, sank.

The disasters ultimately proved too costly for the Anchor Line to weather, and in 1898 it sold off its remaining boats and ceased operations.

Route 

The Anchor Line served most cities between St. Louis and New Orleans, as well as many smaller landings on occasion or by special request of passengers. Not all Anchor Line steamboats traveled this entire route regularly; for example, between 1888 and 1896, the Arkansas City worked a route between St. Louis and Natchez.

Main landings probably included:
 Cairo, Illinois
 New Madrid, Missouri
 Hickman, Kentucky
 Memphis
 Helena, Arkansas
 Greenville, Mississippi
 Vicksburg
 Natchez, Mississippi (and Vidalia, Louisiana, across the river)
 Bayou Sara, Louisiana
 Baton Rouge, Louisiana
 Donaldsonville, Louisiana
 New Orleans

Boats 
Beginning in 1880, all newly built Anchor Line Boats were side-wheelers, meaning they each had two large paddlewheels located on the starboard and port side of the boat, located about two-thirds of the way back from the prow. The lone exception was the Bluff City.

References 

 Gandy, Joan W. and Thomas H. The Mississippi Steamboat Era In Historic Photographs: Natchez to New Orleans, 1870-1920. New York: Dover Publications, 1987.
 Way, Frederick Jr. Way's Packet Directory, 1848-1994: Passenger Steamboats of the Mississippi River System Since the Advent of Photography in Mid-Continent America, 2nd ed. Athens, OH: Ohio University Press, 1994.

Shipping companies of the United States
Mississippi River
Transport companies established in 1859
Transport companies disestablished in 1898
Economic history of the United States
Cultural history of the United States
Economy of St. Louis
Shipping in Greater St. Louis
History of St. Louis
Transportation in New Orleans
19th century in New Orleans
1896
Companies based in Memphis, Tennessee
Defunct companies based in Tennessee
1859 establishments in Tennessee
American companies established in 1859
1896 natural disasters in the United States