[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of Area 88 characters

se it's what they are paid to do - and if they don't he will either dock their pay or shoot them. Although shown as a capable pilot in the manga and OVA series by efficiently flying the Kfir, Saki is leading the force from  the control tower in the TV series.
He is named after Saki's Sredni Vashtar.

Ryoko Tsugumo
The daughter of CEO Tsugumo of Yamato Air Lines (YAL), she met Shin and Satoru when she was introduced to flying airplanes for the first time. Ryoko became infatuated with Shin before he left for Paris to conduct his pilot training. She became furious at Satoru when she found out that Shin was forced to serve in the Asranian air force against his will, refusing Satoru's wishes for them to get together. In the TV series, Ryoko agrees to marry Satoru after being shown proof that Shin died in a plane crash in Asran. However, she bolts on the day of their wedding when Makoto comes clean and give her a photo of Shin's F-5 jet. In the manga and OAV series, she consents to let Kanzaki have his way with her sexually if he will buy her YAL stocks at full price, allowing her to raise enough money to buy out Shin's contract. She is saved from doing so when police come to the hotel room to arrest Kanzaki on several accounts concerning recent scandals involving the carrier.

Satoru Kanzaki
Shin's closest friend from their days in an orphanage. Satoru worked alongside him at Yamato Airlines, but jealousy at seeing Shin going out with the company CEO's daughter prompts him to trick Shin while drunk into signing a contract for another flight that turns out to be a contract for the Asranian military - hoping that Shin will die in battle. CEO Tsugumo picked him to be his successor in Yamato Air Lines and arranged for him to marry Ryoko. In the manga, Tsugumo is forced to resign by shareholders when Kanzaki makes an underhanded purchasing deal with a shady jumbo jet manufacturer, assuring himself a large percentage of stock which installs him as the new YAL president. The jets turn out to be defective, causing an accidental crash which kills all aboard, thus opening Kanzaki to investigation. In the end, his wedding plans are ruined when Ryoko learns Shin's whereabouts after meeting Saki Vashtar and he is arrested for embezzlement, tax evasion, and his involvement in the plane crash. The arrest is hardly the end of Kanzaki as he returns with a number of schemes until the end of the manga series where he dies in an air duel with Shin. He is simply arrested in the OVA series. Kanzaki's backstory remains the same in the TV series, where he even fails a senior 747 captain's examination for a long-distance flight to Tokyo without autopilot after he almost collides with Shin, who was out on a test flight of his new F-20. His fate is left unresolved after Ryoko escapes on their wedding day.

Freelancers
Kim Abba
A young pilot from an African nation, he was mocked by most of the base's freelance pilots and other personnel because of his age. Saki, Roundell, Mickey, Kitori and Shin regard the boy as someone that they can rely on in a matter of crisis, consider Kim as a friend and a good pilot. Kim only appears in the manga and 2004 anime; in the latter, his emblem consisted of a red swan with golden wings, and flies the AV-8 Harrier II.

Morris
 An American pilot briefly seen in the Eclipse series. Morris is a skilled ground attack pilot flying a T-6 Texan, a single-engined prop-driven plane used to train pilots in World War II, and the oldest warplane on the base. Strongly urged to get a jet, he prefers the familiarity of the Texan. Ironically, his preference saves the base from nuclear attack by the anti-government forces. As the enemy missile approaches, the runways are suddenly covered by swarms of locusts, preventing the jet-powered planes from flying. Morris's Texan is able to launch and clear the runway - allowing others to launch and intercept the missile. Unfortunately, the Texan is disabled by the swarm nonetheless, and Morris is killed.

Mario Bandini
 A young Italian mercenary hungry for action but lacking any sense of teamwork. He arrives shortly after the onslaught of the Wolfpack, immediately making himself unwelcome. Skilled in aerobatics - a vet of the Frecce Tricolori - Bandini finds combat much more traumatic than he expected.