[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Child labour in Eswatini

Child labour in Eswatini is a controversial issue that affects a large portion of the country's population. Child labour is often seen as a human rights concern because it is "work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity, and that is harmful to physical and mental development," as defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Additionally, child labour is harmful in that it restricts a child's ability to attend school or receive an education. The ILO recognizes that not all forms of children working are harmful, but this article will focus on the type of child labour that is generally accepted as harmful to the child involved.

Origin 
During the colonial period between 1914 and 1947, child labour played an important role in the British government's control of Eswatini. Swazi labour history has previously failed to acknowledge the contributions children made to the labour industry during the colonial period, perhaps because children are often seen as extensions of their parents rather than as individuals. At the beginning, children usually performed unpaid labour, but beginning in the 1930s paid labour became more common. Like today, agriculture and farming was one of the largest sectors of child labour.

Demographics 
Many of the children in Eswatini subjected to harsh work conditions are victims of human trafficking. Despite the Eswatini government's attempts to reduce child labour, victims of human trafficking have historically worked in the most severe types of child labour jobs. AIDS orphans are also at a greater risk to be exploited for cheap labour. In 2006, half of all children engaged in Eswatini's sex trade were orphans.

Causes 
Poverty is one of the most common determinants of child labour, and 69% of Swazis were living in poverty as of 2006. Because child labour interferes with schooling, an individual's ability to escape poverty is significantly reduced. This can create child-labour traps, in which the next generation is also forced into child labour because their family is still in poverty. Specifically, the cost of transportation is a barrier that prevents poor children from attending school in many African countries. According to Hannie Dlamini, the chairman of the Eswatini Aids Support Organisation (EASO), "the extended family system is breaking down and there is no-one to look after orphans," meaning that "fifteen year olds are responsible for homes."

Eswatini is a lower middle-income country, and yet serious poverty exists because there is a very unequal distribution of wealth. The richest 10% control nearly half of the country's wealth, with the bottom 43% living in chronic poverty. In 1999, UNICEF found that many children initially went to work because their parents were unemployed, and the family needed a source of income.

Orphaned children are at increased risk, and many orphans have lost their parents to AIDS. Eswatini has the highest HIV prevalence rate in the world, with nearly a quarter of the total population infected.

Number of children in a household also affects child labour vulnerability. Because perceived quality of a child tends to decrease as the quantity of children in a family rise, parents and others are less concerned with protecting children that are from large families. In addition, large families have more people to share their income and resources between, consequently increasing their risk of poverty.

Controversy over morality 
Although child labour is often seen as inherently bad because it has been found to be linked with adolescent mortality, some also argue that it should not be banned. For example, should a child be permitted to work after voluntarily signing a labour contract? Eswatini's growing poverty causes a need for children to work, particularly in rural areas. Also, 66% of the country's population is unable to meet basic food needs so sometimes, child labour may be the only solution for a family.

The ILO also recognizes that some types of child labour may be permissible and makes the distinction between "child labour" and "hazardous work." In 2012, the organization reported that 168 million children aged 5–17 are subjected to child labour worldwide, with 85 million of these cases considered to be hazardous work.

Efforts to reduce child labour 
Globally, efforts to reduce child labour have been successful in recent years. The ILO reports that both child labour and hazardous work have decreased since 2000.