[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# McClellan–Kerr Arkansas River Navigation System

ease of water would be needed to prevent overtopping the dam, causing devastating floods downstream. Even so, water rushed downstream toward MKARNS at such a high rate that officials at USACE halted barge traffic to avoid calamities such as collisions or hitting trees and debris afloat in the river.

By October, barge traffic was allowed on a limited basis. Normally, tows comprise twelve to sixteen barges. However, the flood carried so much silt down river that re-dredging would be required to return to normal traffic patterns. In October, the tows were limited to six barges (two wide and three deep).

The 2019 flood deposited about 1.5 million cubic yards of sediment into the waterway, As of February 2020, barge traffic remained limited by tow size and restricted to daylight hours only due to sediment. USACE expected to complete the dredging of sediment by late May 2020.

Waterway traffic control
The growth of business along MKARNS has greatly increased congestion at the locks. The Secretary of the Army has directed USACE to establish the following priorities for admitting vessels to each lock:
 Vessels owned by the U.S. government
 Commercial passenger vessels
 Commercial vessels (e.g., barges)
 Rafts
 Pleasure craft

There is no minimum size for watercraft using the locks. Craft as small as canoes, dinghies, and kayaks have all been allowed to use the locks, either alone or with multiple other vessels at the same time. If commercial traffic is heavy, pleasure craft may be required to wait approximately 1.5 hours or may be allowed to lock through with commercial vessels.

See also
 List of navigation authorities in the United States
 List of crossings of the Arkansas River

Notes

References

External links
Map of navigation system
History of the Arkansas River
US Army Corps of Engineers, Little Rock, Arkansas district navigation information
 Oklahoma Digital Maps: Digital Collections of Oklahoma and Indian Territory

Arkansas River
Waterways in the United States
Canals opened in 1971
Canals in Arkansas
Canals in Oklahoma
Infrastructure in Oklahoma