[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniel Seaman

e relief. They disregard the laws of the country, they don't respect boundaries in Israel in ways they wouldn't dare in other countries.  . They're insulted when they have to go through regular security checks like everyone else .. and sometimes the journalists knowingly assist enemies of the state.

Journalists must prove their credentials. Activists, he says, should not be described as something they are not, journalists.  Israelis when hurt return to a normal life quickly, whereas Palestinians exploit their tragedies as weapons in a media battle. The effect is to impress world opinion with the idea that Palestinians suffer more than do Israelis. The Israeli media also have problems, with, he calculates, 90% of media reflecting what is only 5% of Israeli public opinion. He is critical of the vocal exposure of the multiplicity of voices in Israel in lieu of a "centralization across all sectors" that would permit Israel to  deploy a formidable "unified force of opinion".

In Operation Cast Lead, Israel blocked foreign journalists from entering the Gaza Strip to report on the war. This raised an outcry of protest, with UNWRA claiming that failure of access by journalists hindered a truthful representation of what was occurring. The reason given by the Israeli government for its ban was that international correspondents would be endangered there, and that to protect them, Israel would have to divert resources towards their protection better spent on fighting Hamas. Seaman was quoted on CNN as saying that Israel had learnt a lesson  from  its war with Hezbollah in Lebanon earlier in 2006:'There was too much exposure, it had an effect on our ability to achieve strategic goals', a declaration taken to indicate the real rationale behind the government's ban. Seaman was also quoted by The New York Times Ethan Bronner as arguing: 'Any journalist who enters Gaza becomes a fig leaf and front for the Hamas terror organization, and I see no reason we should help that.' The Goldstone Report on the war added that Seaman also expressed the view that foreign correspondents lacked professionalism and took "questionable reports at face  value without checking".

In May 2018, during an interview with I24NEWS, Seaman stated that "I am an Islamophobe. Because we have lived here long enough to know what they are capable of doing".

Controversies

Conflicts with journalists
As the director of the GPO, Seaman came under criticism for not issuing journalists with Israeli press cards. Additionally, he was accused by one journalist of becoming aggressive, abusive and using foul language against journalists he considered hostile and unfair towards Israel. Such journalists included Israeli mainstream media employees such as Atta Awisat, a veteran staff photographer at Yedioth Ahronoth, then the largest newspaper in Israel, allegedly due to clearance issues with the security agencies.

Seaman did not deny using this type of policy towards blatantly anti-Israeli media outlets:

I can make journalists' lives more difficult. There are certain guidelines that allow me to do that. Such as with the case of [Swedish newspaper] Aftonbladet, and their despicable anti-Semitic [...] report on the IDF [purportedly] abducting Palestinians and using their body organs. We didn't prevent Aftonbladet from working here. We just took our time. To this day, the correspondents from Aftonbladet do not get a press card immediately. We can take up to 90 days and we can take longer...

Another journalist who became the target of Seaman's contempt was Jörg Bremer, a 15-year veteran of the press corps in Jerusalem, who worked as the correspondent of the right-liberal German Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper. In his case, he was denied not the renewal of his press card, but the extension of his residence visa. For calling this measure a political way of keeping unwanted journalist at bay and for asking for the German government's support, Bremer was described by Seaman in a newspaper interview as "an idiot," "a piece of shit" and "a miserable liar." Bremer said in response that "Seaman wants journalists to lick his feet. He gets enjoyment from the situation, and uses his power instead of helping. It is harmful to Israel."

On 11 March 2007, Haaretz reported that the Israeli Civil Service Commission was investigating foreign journalists' accusations that Government Press Office director Daniel Seaman has treated them improperly and enforced the procedures for receiving a press pass in an inequitable manner.