[Source: PubMed]

93. PLoS One. 2016 May 27;11(5):e0156216. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156216. 
eCollection 2016.

Mental Suffering in Protracted Political Conflict: Feeling Broken or Destroyed.

Barber BK(1)(2), McNeely CA(1), El Sarraj E(3), Daher M(4), Giacaman R(5), 
Arafat C(6), Barnes W(7), Abu Mallouh M(8).

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee, United States of America.
(2)New America, Washington, DC, United States of America.
(3)Gaza Community Mental Health Programme, Gaza Strip, Palestine.
(4)Independent Consultant, Gaza Strip, Palestine.
(5)Birzeit University, Birzeit, West Bank, Palestine.
(6)Save the Children Foundation, Ramallah, West Bank, Palestine.
(7)Georgetown University, Washington, DC, United States of America.
(8)Al-Qattan Foundation, Gaza Strip, Palestine.

PURPOSE: This mixed-methods exploratory study identified and then developed and 
validated a quantitative measure of a new construct of mental suffering in the 
occupied Palestinian territory: feeling broken or destroyed.
METHODS: Group interviews were conducted in 2011 with 68 Palestinians, most aged 
30-40, in the West Bank, East Jerusalem, and the Gaza Strip to discern local 
definitions of functioning. Interview participants articulated of a type of 
suffering not captured in existing mental health instruments used in regions of 
political conflict. In contrast to the specific difficulties measured by 
depression and PTSD (sleep, appetite, energy, flashbacks, avoidance, etc.), 
participants elaborated a more existential form of mental suffering: feeling 
that one's spirit, morale and/or future was broken or destroyed, and emotional 
and psychological exhaustion. Participants articulated these feelings when 
describing the rigors of the political and economic contexts in which they live. 
We wrote survey items to capture these sentiments and administered these 
items-along with standard survey measures of mental health-to a representative 
sample of 1,778 32-43 year olds in the occupied Palestinian territory. The same 
survey questions also were administered to a representative subsample (n = 508) 
six months earlier, providing repeated measures of the construct.
RESULTS: Across samples and time, the feeling broken or destroyed scale: 1) 
comprised a separate factor in exploratory factor analyses, 2) had high 
inter-item consistency, 3) was reported by both genders and in all regions, 4) 
showed discriminate validity via moderate correlations with measures of feelings 
of depression and trauma-related stress, and 5) was more commonly experienced 
than either feelings of depression or trauma-related stress.
CONCLUSIONS: Feeling broken or destroyed can be reliably measured and 
distinguished from conventional measures of mental health. Such locally grounded 
and contextualized measures should be identified and included in assessments of 
the full impact of protracted political conflict on functioning.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156216
PMCID: PMC4883798
PMID: 27232335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.