[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Robert Whitaker (photographer)

, four songs from Revolver, which would not be released in Britain for another three weeks. It was Capitol's habit of cherry-picking album tracks and singles to compiled their own albums that was the origin of the claims about the Butcher Sleeve being some kind of protest against the American label.

Capitol printed the cover in early June, using the "Butcher" photo, and the release was scheduled for 15 June 1966. Estimates vary considerably as to how many copies of the album were printed and/or distributed. Whitaker puts the number at 250,000 but other sources range from as high as 750,000 to 400,000 to as low as 60,000. According to another estimate, about 25,000 copies were sold prior to the recall. Mojo magazine reported that 60,000 copies were distributed to radio, media and Capitol branch offices, who showed it to retailers.

Whitaker: "Having finished that particular picture, it was snatched away from me and sent off to America. It was reproduced as a record cover without ever having the artwork completed by me. The cover layout was somebody else's conception. It was a good idea to ban it at the time, because it made no sense at all. It was just this rather horrific image of four Beatles, whom everybody loved, covered in raw meat, the arms, legs and torsos of dolls, and false teeth. But they are only objects placed on the Beatles, rather like making a movie. I mean what you want to read into it is entirely up to you. I was trying to show that the Beatles were flesh and blood."

It has been suggested that Lennon was the main impetus behind the photo being used, but according to Alan Livingstone, Capitol's former president, (quoted in Mojo magazine in 2002), the decision to use the photo used on Yesterday And Today was taken largely at the insistence of Paul McCartney:

Alan Livingstone: "The reaction came back that the dealers refused to handle them. I called London and we went back and forth. My contact was mainly with Paul McCartney. He was adamant and felt very strongly that we should go forward. He said ‘It’s our comment on the war’. I don’t know why it was a comment on the war or if it would be interpreted that way."

Capitol were understandably nervous about adverse publicity, and could ill-afford another Beatles-related controversy. The label was still reeling from the fallout from John Lennon's notorious "bigger than Jesus" quip in March 1966, which had sparked a wave of protests and record burnings in conservative areas of the United States. The company reacted swiftly, issuing letters of apology, and on Tuesday 14 June, Capitol PR manager Ron Tepper issued an official letter of recall in which he quoted a statement from Capitol's president, Alan W. Livingston:

"The original cover, created in England, was intended as a ‘pop art' satire. However a sampling of public opinion in the United States indicates that the cover design is subject to misinterpretation. For this reason, and to avoid any possible controversy or undeserved harm to the Beatles' image or reputation, Capitol has chosen to withdraw the LP and substitute a more generally acceptable design."

The "Butcher sleeve" LPs were withdrawn and returned, and a new cover was hastily prepared at a reported cost of $250,000. The offending Butcher photo was replaced by an unremarkable Whitaker shot of the Beatles gathered around a large steamer trunk, taken in Brian Epstein's office. It was rushed to America,  where Capitol staff spent the following weekend taking the discs from the returned "butcher" sleeves and putting them in the new sleeve. Several thousand copies of the original cover were destroyed and replaced by the ‘cabin trunk’ sleeve, but Capitol eventually decided that it would be more economical to simply paste the new cover photo over the old one. After the album was released, news of the ‘paste-over’ operation leaked out, and Beatle fans across America began steaming the cabin trunk photos off of their copies of Yesterday and Today in the hope of finding the "butcher" cover underneath.

The Butcher cover is still one of the most valuable and sought-after pieces of Beatle memorabilia. George Harrison himself called it "the definitive Beatles collectible" and Bob Whitaker relates the story of a woman who came up to him with an unpeeled ‘paste-over’ cover in the US, had him autograph it, and promptly sold it for US$40,000.