[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# European Union roaming regulations

n, Armenia, Moldova, and Belarus by 2020. EU4Digital team stated that Regional Roaming Agreement will gradually reduce roaming prices within the Eastern partner countries. By the end of 2026, retail prices of roaming services for citizens of the signatory countries are expected to be reduced by 87%.

At the Sofia summit in May 2018, Western Balkan countries agreed to reduce roaming costs among themselves, and the EU pledged to develop a roadmap to reduce the roaming costs between the EU and the countries in the Western Balkans; Albania, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, North Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia. In Skopje on 18 February 2019, European Commissioner for Digital Economy and Society, Mariya Gabriel confirmed that once the Western Balkans reaches the new agreement on roaming prices among its economies, the EU stands ready for the reduction of tariffs between the WB and the EU. On 4 April 2019, at the 2nd Western Balkans Digital Summit in Belgrade, the Western Balkan Ministers for Telecommunications signed the Regional Roaming Agreement which would gradually remove all roaming costs in the region. The agreement came into effect on 1 July 2019, enabling significantly lower roaming charges in the Western Balkans. Since 1 July 2021, all roaming tariffs have been removed, meaning no surcharge to the domestic retail price for calls, SMS & data while roaming in Western Balkans, similar to the concept of "Roam like at Home". It is expected that gradual reduction of the roaming costs between Western Balkans and European Economic Area will start by 2023, which will eventually leads to a roaming free zone beyond the EEA's borders in 2027.

Areas not covered
The regulations do not apply to areas which are connected to member states but are outside the EU. Saint Martin, an overseas collectivity of France which is part of the EU and has free roaming for EU phones, while in Sint Maarten, a constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the other half of the Caribbean island, prices are high, as it is not part of the EU.

The last member state of EFTA, Switzerland, is not party to the EEA agreement, and is instead linked to the EU by a series of bilateral agreements. Despite close relations with the EU in several fields, the regulations do not apply to Switzerland. Monaco, Andorra and San Marino have cooperation with the EU, like usage of the euro, but not free roaming.

The United Kingdom left the EU in the end of January 2020. In accordance with the Brexit withdrawal agreement, free roaming was kept during a transition period ending on 31 December 2020. Free roaming UK–EU its no longer guaranteed as the regulations are contained within a European regulation and not a directive, and have not been incorporated into UK law. However, some UK mobile providers, such as O2 and Virgin Mobile have continued to allow free roaming for British residents in the EEA after the end of the Brexit transition period.

Prices

Common limits 
All roaming charges for temporary roaming were abolished on 15 June 2017 (fair-use rules apply). The tariffs covering the period from 30 April 2016 are maximum surcharges to the price paid in the home network.

Local price limits 

For services paid for in currencies other than the euro, the amount in euro is converted to the other currency using the reference rates published in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJoEU). After the adoption of EU regulation 531/2012 the retail exchange rate to be used for the relevant year should be calculated by taking the average of the reference exchange rates published in the OJoEU on 1 March, 1 April and 1 May of that year, with the new exchange rate coming into force on 1 July of that year. The wholesale exchange rate however is taken from only the rate published on 1 May of that year.

From 1 July 2021 the maximum surcharges on retail prices (when not covered by roam like at home, such as when the fair-use policy hits in), including VAT, are as follows in local currencies (data prices are updated 1 January every year):

Exchange rates

Method of calculating 
As the VAT rates and currencies vary across the EEA, the European Commission publishes price caps in euro and excluding VAT. So the final prices for each country can be calculated by adding the corresponding VAT rate and converting to the currency of the country (if non-euro).