[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Noise regulation

and to limit the use of excessively loud air horns or Rumbler or Howler horns. California prohibits a person operating a motor vehicle to wear a headset or earplugs on both ears. Oregon (Section 820.370) prohibits signaling sound when an emergency vehicle is stationary or returning from an emergency

Motor vehicles on a public right-of-way
This provision is an objective emission control. It applies maximum sound levels to various categories of moving vehicles and for several vehicle speeds.  It is the backbone of vehicle sound emission regulations. It generally requires a measurement of A-weighted sound level of a moving vehicle at a specific distance from the vehicle path (normally 50 feet).  This provision has level restrictions on trucks over 10,000 GVW used locally and in interstate commerce.  It also covers motorcycles of two horsepower ratings, mopeds, and all other vehicles on public rights-of-way.  The federal government has set maximum levels for heavy trucks used in interstate commerce (40 CFR 202)and for motorcycles (40 CFR 205).  Most states and many cities  have maximum limits and they generally agree with federal standards where they apply. The most common speed division is 35 mph.

Motor vehicle racing events
This provision is an objective emission control. It can define the method of vehicle operation that is used to define the maximum permitted sound level.  It can have a curfew.  Some states exempt motor vehicle racing events from noise disturbance litigation or prosecution.  Arizona (Section 28-955.03) exempts racing motorcycles from maximum sound levels and muffler requirements. Illinois {Section 35.903} had detailed regulations on racing vehicles It required a 14 dB reduction in sound output, limited sound output at half mater to 115 dB(A), and no more than 105 dB(A) at 50 feet.

Cars Must Be Loud

Motor vehicle theft alarms
This provision is a subjective emission control with only an operational time limit. Los Angeles, CA () requires silencing in 5 minutes.  New York City, NY (Section 24.221(d)) requires automatic shut-off after 10 minutes and a prominent display of the local precinct number and telephone number.  Boston, MA (Section 16–26.2) considers it a violation if the alarm is plainly audible at 200 feet and is on more than 5 minutes.  Other states and communities have automatic shutoff times from 10 to 15 minutes.  Some communities have banned such alarms.

Motor vehicle tire squeal and street drag racing
This provision is  a subjective immission control. It is based on the noise disturbance from drag racing and tire squealing on public rights-of-way.  Illinois (625 ILCS 5/11-505) prohibits such activities.  Hammond, IN (Section 6.2.14) prohibits such activity if it creates a noise disturbance.

Railroads
Railroad activity is subject to federal regulations. Most communities do not attempt to regulate train sound.  The level of train horns permitted by the Federal Railroad Administration sufficiently high that community impact occurs. One method to alleviate this sound is to have a community establish a quiet zone where the rail crossings meet federal safety standards so that horn use is not needed.

Recreational off-road vehicles
This provision is both an objective emission control and a subjective immission control with a curfew. It can apply to both public and private properties.  Since these vehicles can move in large open areas, an objective control, limiting maximum sound levels at a fixed distance, is appropriate.  Since they also can move in bounded areas near residences, a subjective control is appropriate. Numerous states and cities have emission controls measured at 50 feet;  the most common level is 82 dB(A), which is similar to that for motor vehicles on public rights-of-way.  Colorado Springs, CO (Section 9.8.204.C) requires a minimum distance of 660 feet from residences. Portland, OR (Section 18.10.020.C) requires the area must be designated for recreational vehicle use.  Salt Lake health Department, UT (Section 4.5.10(x)) requires off-highway vehicles to be at least 800 feet from a dwelling during the day and has a curfew from 10 pm to 7 am.  They prohibit any noise disturbance and require sound levels to the less than 96 dB(A) at 50 feet.