[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# LGBT rights in Ethiopia

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in Ethiopia face significant challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Both male and female same-sex sexual activity are illegal in the country, with reports of high levels of discrimination and abuses against LGBT people.  

Ethiopia has a long history of social conservatism and same-sex activity is considered a minor phenomenon. 

However, the majority of Ethiopians remain hostile towards LGBT identities and believe them to be a "Western perversion of their societal values". Homosexual men are widely blamed for claimed HIV/AIDS epidemic in Ethiopia. Discrimination and stigma are therefore commonplace and some Ethiopian LGBT people suppress their identity or flee as asylum seekers. According to the 2007 Pew Global Attitudes Project, 97 percent of Ethiopians believe homosexuality is a way of life that society should not accept. This was the second-highest rate of non-acceptance in the 45 countries surveyed.

Gay and lesbian people do not openly serve in the army despite the lack of a law regarding service in the military. Booshtee is a derogatory term of gay person in Ethiopia, often interchangeably used as an insult for despicable being.

History
Notable reference of same-sex activity in Ethiopia was in hagiography The Life and Struggles of Our Mother Wälättä P̣eṭros (1672). Walatta Petros (1592–1642) and her fellow student Ehete Krestos from Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, were friendly nuns "lived together in mutual love, like soul and body" until death whereas other nuns depicted as lustful each other. The book is the first requiring in "queer reading" style in the earliest Ethiopian literature.

In 2008, LGBT people became increasingly visible in Ethiopia when hundreds of homosexuals petitioned for equal rights and appealed to the prime minister Meles Zenawi. However it became blocked en route to the prime minister's office. In the same year, an unofficial gay marriage took place in Sheraton Addis. In the early 2010s, some media outlets with the cooperation of the government imposed restrictions over the discussion of "LGBT ideology". These policies of censorship have yet to be enacted into law.

Gender roles in Maale culture

Donald Donham suggested that a small minority of  Maales who are apparently male occasionally adopt feminine societal roles, donning typically female attire and occasionally having sex with men.

Legality of same-sex sexual activity

The previous Penal Code of the country, enacted in 1957, encompassed a dedicated chapter addressing "sexual deviations." Contained within this chapter, Article 600 prescribed punitive measures for engaging in sexual acts or any other conduct deemed "indecent" with a person of the same sex. The prescribed penalties ranged from imprisonment for a period of 10 days to three years. The current Penal Code, enacted in 2004, continues to proscribe same-sex sexual activity as a criminal offense. As per the provisions outlined in Article 629, individuals found involved in such activities may face imprisonment, with a minimum sentence of one year, as explicitly delineated in Article 630. Additionally, under Article 630(1)(b), “making a profession” of such acts aggravates the penalty to up to 10 years.

In Ethiopian law, the wording of the penal code treats a homosexual act as an act of an aggressor against a victim. Consequently, the offense of the aggressor is considered aggravated, when it results in the suicide of the victim for reasons of "shame, distress or despair".

Enforcement of criminalizing provisions 
According to reports compiled by ILGA World, in various incidents in Ethiopia, individuals suspected of being LGBT have faced arrests, harassment, and mistreatment. In some cases, police conducted raids on private residences without warrants, based on accusations from neighbors. One reported incident in 2014 involved the arrest of a young gay man who was denied legal representation and subjected to rape and assault by fellow inmates while in custody. Trials for such cases are rare, and the whereabouts of the young man remain unknown. There have also been several documented instances where individuals were arrested simply for their perceived appearance or "looking gay." They were subjected to beatings while in detention. In one tragic case, two men detained in January 2021 were later released but were then outed by the police to their families, leading to the suicide of one of the individuals.