[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Critical reaction to 24

of Renee Walker (Annie Wersching) received rave reviews in Season 7, even getting to be called the "Jack-girl" by fans. She has been seen as a highlight of the season. Cherry Jones won Best Supporting Actress at the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards for her role as President Allison Taylor in Season Seven.

The New York Times compared the opening of Season Seven to "being in a bar with a football superstar, eagerly awaiting tales of gridiron glory, only to have to listen to him drone on and on about the hypocrisy and injustice of steroid testing." USA Today called the eighteenth episode of the season "more than just a pivotal episode; it's a nearly ideal one, with some longed-for resolution, an emotional reconciliation, an exciting central sequence, and at least one surprise that's sure to leave you gasping", and asking "why can't Jack come back from near death? His show sure has."

The A.V. Club said the opener was "off to a terrific start", and "connects to earlier seasons without being slavishly committed to recreating them". After the season ended, The A.V. Club once again remarked, "The last months have been by turns ridiculous, exciting, irritating, and even a little thought provoking; and if nothing else, they've proven there's still some juice left in the formula. The season closes with Jack unconscious on a hospital bed, and Kim telling him she isn't ready to let go just yet. After a day like this, I mostly agree with her."

DVD Verdict said of the seventh season, "When looked at from start to finish, 24 Season Seven isn't the disaster everyone feared...but it certainly isn't the fresh new champion that people were hoping for, either. It's somewhere in the middle, with a very excellent two-thirds giving way to an awful, awful finish. The series has always prided itself on subverting people's expectations, and in this case it did: I expected it to end with a cool storyline and some memorable villains...and the writer's subverted my hopes by churning out five lame hours of television that cast a shadow over all the good things this season had going for it."

Season 8

Season Eight received mixed reviews for its first half, but were more optimistic about the addition of Anil Kapoor as President Omar Hassan. However, reviews for the second half have been more positive. Maureen Ryan of the Chicago Tribune said, "it's kind of amazing to think about how long it took for the endless succession of cliffhangers to get old." She reviewed the series with dismay, ending with "24 just seems wan and tired to me. The show's few interesting actors get little to do and the new characters aren't that compelling. Pass." Salon.com came to the conclusion that, "after watching the first four hours, I can tell you that the eighth season of "24″ does not look good. You know how much I adore this stupid show, but please, don't waste your time." The New York Times said that, "24 has stayed the course, for good and bad. The show that was once so innovative — in particular its real-time 24-hour countdown — has become creakily formulaic. The same elements — terrorists, counterterrorists (and, almost inevitably, a mole working for a high-level conspiracy), innocent bystanders and the president — are tumbled and reconfigured each season around the indispensable Bauer."

USA Today was disappointed with the new cast, but was excited for the return of old characters, saying "The only familiar face belongs to Mary Lynn Rajskub's belovedly difficult Chloe — though soon you'll be treated to the startling return of Annie Wersching's Renee Walker. Pray for that moment, because once Walker's story takes over in the fifth hour, it pulls Jack away from the CTU office, which is where most of the season's problems reside. Sackhoff has been saddled with a particularly weak plot and character. (Outside of Jones' president, must 24s women be so unhinged?) And Williamson's ridiculously obstructionist CTU boss is an eye-rolling drag."