[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# David Bridges

David Stephen Bridges (born 22 September 1982) is an English former professional footballer. He played as a midfielder.

Bridges started his career with local club Cambridge United, progressing through the club's youth system and eventually breaking into the first-team in 2001. He spent three seasons at Cambridge, before being released at the end of the 2003–04 season after failing to agree terms on a new contract. Bridges had a brief spell in Latvia playing for FK Rīga, before returning to England to play four games for Braintree Town in January 2005. He joined Histon in March 2005, playing for the club until the end of the season. He left Histon at the end of the season, and subsequently earned himself a one-year contract to rejoin Cambridge United in July 2005. He played regularly for the club for two seasons, but was released again in 2007.

Bridges then joined Kettering Town ahead of the 2007–08 season, helping the club achieve promotion from the Conference North to the Conference Premier in his first season at the club. At the end of the season he rejected a contract offer from Kettering and joined Stevenage on a free transfer. In his first season at the Hertfordshire club, he helped the team to FA Trophy success, as well as helping the club earn promotion to the Football League for the first time in the club's history the following season. He was also part of the squad that helped Stevenage earn back-to-back promotions during the 2010–11 season. Ahead of the 2011–12 season, Bridges re-joined Conference Premier club Kettering Town. He left the club after one season, and spent a year at Chelmsford City, before signing for Bury Town in May 2013. He had a brief spell at Brackley Town, before spending two seasons combining playing and coaching at King's Lynn Town.

He initially announced his retirement from playing in May 2016 and joined St Neots Town as first-team coach a year later, where he began playing again for the 2017–18 season. He left St Neots Town in August 2018, taking up the position of head of coaching at League Two club Lincoln City. Bridges also earned one cap for the England C team.

Early life
Born in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, Bridges attended St Peter's School in Huntingdon.

Club career

Cambridge United
Bridges played for local team Cambridge United, whom he joined at the age of eight, and he progressed through the club's youth system before signing his first professional contract in February 2002. He broke into the first-team towards the end of the 2001–02 season, making his debut as a substitute in a 1–0 defeat to Huddersfield Town at the Abbey Stadium on 16 March 2002. He played six further games in the same season, scoring his first goal for Cambridge in a 2–1 home victory against Tranmere Rovers on 13 April 2002. Bridges played regularly in the opening half of the 2002–03 season, playing 25 times and scoring once in a 3–0 victory against York City. A "persistent" ankle injury cut his run in the first-team short, and he did not play from February through to the remainder of the season. He returned to the first-team in a 1–0 defeat to Wycombe Wanderers on 14 October 2003, and played a further 22 times for the club throughout the 2003–04 season. Bridges left Cambridge at the end of the season after failing to agree a contract extension. On leaving Cambridge, Bridges said "I was offered a contract that was almost a kick in the teeth after the time I had been at the club when players were coming in from all over the place who did not care about the club. They were getting paid five or six times what I was offered, and I thought it was probably time to move on". During his three seasons with the club, Bridges made 55 appearances in all competitions, scoring four times.

Journeyman
Bridges trialled at a number of clubs before the start of the 2004–05 season, including Chesterfield and Northampton Town, without successfully securing a deal. He also spent the majority of the close season in the United States training with two professional American football clubs, before realising it was not financially viable to move to America on a permanent basis. Bridges struggled to find a club ahead of the 2004–05 season, and took up an offer to play for FK Rīga in Latvia. He suffered a fractured foot just ten days after signing for the club, and did not make any appearances for the Latvian club. Despite the injury, he spent three months in Latvia before returning to England to "assess his options". After returning to England in November 2004 for rehabilitation at Lilleshall, he began part-time training with Cambridgeshire club Histon in January 2005.