[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS General George M. Randall

rvice personnel, and sailed once more for Yokohama on 25 November. She arrived there on 10 December, and returned to Seattle on 19 December. She proceeded to San Francisco on 12 January 1946. Her Coast Guard crew was removed on 31 January 1946, and she was returned to Navy control.

Peacetime duties

She sailed from Pearl Harbor on 1 December 1946 for the east coast; and after undergoing peacetime alterations at Philadelphia (including the removal of her armament), stood out of that port on 2 April 1947. Sailing through the Panama Canal again and reaching San Francisco on 25 April, the transport began a series of shuttle runs between West Coast ports and the Far East, completing six voyages to Guam (for example following its 11 May 1949 departure the ship arrived 18 May 1949 at Honolulu where many passengers received liberty, and later arrived
25 May 1949 at the Port of San Francisco), two to China and Japan, and two to Hawaii before she was assigned to the Military Sea Transportation Service (now the Military Sealift Command) in October 1949.

Korean War
As an MSTS ship, General George M. Randall made scheduled runs between the West coast of the United States and the Orient until fighting erupted in Korea in the summer of 1950. She participated in the amphibious assault at Inchon which routed the North Korean Army and forced Communist evacuation of South Korea. After hordes of People's Liberation Army troops poured into Korea and trapped American forces, she served in the evacuation of Hungnam, which saved the embattled G.I.'s enabling them to return to the fight.

She moored at New York, New York, on 26 May 1951, and made four voyages from New York to Bremerhaven and Southampton before returning to the Pacific. On 11 March 1951, General George M. Randall departed Yokohama, Japan, with the bodies of 52 men, the first Korean War dead to be returned to the United States, including Major General Bryant E. Moore, who had commanded the IX Corps. Armed Services honor guards were in attendance at the departure, as was an Army Band, and was heavily covered by the press. The ship arrived at San Francisco, also carrying 1500 officers and men of the 1st Marine Division being rotated home for 30 day leave. She then returned to Yokohama on 24 October.

Return to peacetime duties
For the next three years this far-ranging ship transported men and equipment across the Pacific between West Coast ports and Japan, Okinawa, and Taiwan. In 1955 she shifted operations to the East Coast, arriving at New York on 8 April 1955 for shuttle runs from New York to Bremerhaven, ensuring the continuous flow of troops, dependents, and supplies to American forces in Europe. In first three months of 1957 she cruised the Caribbean, calling at Puerto Rico, Cuba, and Jamaica before resuming her North Atlantic transport runs out of New York on 15 April.

In 1958, the General George M. Randall was the ship that carried then-Private Elvis Presley to his first assignment in Germany; in the voyage, Elvis performed in the ship's variety show as a piano player.

Lebanon Crisis
These varied duties were highlighted by General George M. Randall's role in the 1958 Lebanon crisis. Embarking 1,255 troops of the 35th Tank Battalion at Bremerhaven, and 1,001 others at La Pallice, France, she put them ashore at Beirut, Lebanon, the morning of 3 August 1958, helping to stabilize that country in this swift followup by sea of the 6th Fleet's action with aircraft carrier planes, surface warships, and amphibious landing of United States Marines. General George M. Randall then returned to New York, arriving there on 16 August.

Returning to her New York-Bremerhaven schedule, General George M. Randall visited Spain, Turkey, Greece, and Italy in 1959, and called at ports in Iceland and the Caribbean Islands in the next year as well.

Awards
General George M. Randall received the following awards for her service: China Service Medal (extended), American Campaign Medal, Europe-Africa-Middle East Campaign Medal, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal, World War II Victory Medal, Navy Occupation Service Medal (with Asia clasp), National Defense Service Medal, Korean Service Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal (1-Lebanon), Philippine Liberation Medal, United Nations Service Medal, Republic of Korea War Service Medal.

Decommission
On her last voyage, she cast off from Rota, Spain, and moored at New York on 13 May 1961. General George M. Randall then steamed to Bayonne, New Jersey, where she was decommissioned on 2 June 1961 after 17 years of near-continuous service. She was towed to Norfolk on 12 June, and transferred to the United States Maritime Administration National Defense Reserve Fleet on 16 August, at James River, Virginia.

The ship was struck from the Naval Register on 1 September 1962, but was still retained as an asset in mothballs for 13 years. On 8 May 1975 she was sold for scrap for $687,000, and towed from James River to Taiwan for scrapping.