[Source: PubMed]

3. Haemophilia. 2026 Mar-Apr;32(2):432-437. doi: 10.1111/hae.70202. Epub 2026 Jan
 9.

The Humanitarian and Medical Crisis in Palestinian Territories: The Plight of 
Patients With Congenital Bleeding Disorders and Health Care Under Siege.

Gringeri A(1)(2), Tawil JKJ(3)(4), Malouf R(5), Marchesini E(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Fondazione Charta (Center for Health-Associated Research and Technology 
Assessment), Milan, Italy.
(2)Centro Di Sanità Solidale, Lucca, Italy.
(3)Arab American Orthopedics Center & Specialized Clinics, Al-Bireh, Palestine.
(4)Palestinian Society for Bleeding Disorders, Al-Bireh Benevolent Medical 
Center, Ramallah & Al-Bireh, Palestine.
(5)Palestine Avenir for Childhood Foundation (PACF), Gaza City & Ramallah, 
Palestine.
(6)Centro Per Le Malattie Emorragiche Congenite, Medicina d'Urgenza, Ospedale S. 
Maria della Misericordia, Azienda Ospedaliera, Perugia, Italy.
(7)Fondazione Emo, Perugia, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: The Palestinian territories, especially Gaza and the West Bank, 
are suffering a severe humanitarian and medical crisis due to ongoing conflict, 
blockades and resource shortages. Healthcare infrastructure is devastated, 
limiting access to care - especially for patients with chronic conditions like 
congenital bleeding disorders (CBDs).
METHODS: A detailed medical perspective on the healthcare situation in Palestine 
Territories was investigated via publications in the scientific literature, 
reports form non-governmental organizations, personal interviews with patient 
associations.
RESULTS: Hospitals in Gaza are beyond capacity, prioritizing trauma over chronic 
disease management. Medical facilities face damage and medicine shortages due to 
blockades, worsening patient outcomes. Healthcare workers endure extreme 
workloads, poor protection and frequent attacks, leading to burnout and high 
mortality. Continuous violence results in widespread trauma and mental health 
issues, particularly affecting children and vulnerable groups. Moreover, 
patients with CBD face chronic shortages of clotting factor medications, lack of 
comprehensive treatment centres and reliance on episodic rather than 
prophylactic therapy. This leads to increased complications and disability for 
approximately 562 Palestinians with CBD. Patient stories illustrate the reality 
of displacement, delayed surgeries and inadequate care. International aid 
efforts, such as support from the World Federation of Hemophilia and Haemo-Pal 
project, aim to improve care but are hampered by ongoing conflict, restricted 
movement and bureaucratic delays.
CONCLUSION: Immediate humanitarian action is needed to protect healthcare 
infrastructure, ensure unrestricted medical access and allow safe patient 
evacuation, supported by international advocacy to safeguard health rights 
during conflict.
PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY: People living in the Palestinian Territories - 
especially in Gaza and the West Bank - are going through a major crisis. Because 
of ongoing conflict, blockades and not enough resources, hospitals and clinics 
are damaged and overcrowded. This makes it very hard for people, especially 
those with long-term health problems like bleeding disorders, to get the care 
they need. In Gaza, hospitals are so full that they mostly take care of people 
injured in the conflict. There are not enough medicines or staff, and many 
medical buildings have been damaged. Doctors and nurses are working under a lot 
of stress and danger, which makes their jobs even harder and puts their health 
at risk. As a result, many patients get sicker or even die. The constant 
violence also causes a lot of mental health problems, especially for children 
and other vulnerable people. For people with bleeding disorders, the situation 
is even more difficult. There are not enough special medicines to help their 
blood clot, and there are not enough treatment centres. Most patients can only 
get medicine when they are already having a bleeding episode, instead of getting 
regular treatments to prevent problems. This leads to more health issues and 
disabilities for about 562 Palestinians living with these conditions. The 
stories of patients show how hard it is for them - they often face delays in 
getting surgery, must move from one hospital to another, and do not always get 
the right care. People around the world have a responsibility to speak up for 
safe paths to deliver aid, for an end to attacks on hospitals and for everyone 
to have basic health care, no matter the political situation.

© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.70202
PMID: 41511066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]