[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Norwegian passport

A Norwegian passport (, ) is the passport issued to nationals of Norway for the purpose of international travel. Beside serving as proof of Norwegian citizenship, they facilitate the process of securing assistance from Norwegian consular officials abroad (or public officials in the mission of another Nordic country in case a Norwegian consular official is absent). 

The passport, along with the national identity card allows for the freedom of movement in any of the states of the European Free Trade Association and the European Economic Area. This is because Norway is a member state of EFTA, and by virtue of it also being a member of the EEA and part of the Schengen Area. For travel within the Nordic countries no identity documentation is legally required for Nordic citizens due to the Nordic Passport Union.

Types of passport
Norway issues seven types of passports and travel documents:
 Ordinary Norwegian passport, issued to Norwegian citizens. Their covers are red. Passports issued to adult are valid for 10 years. 
 Emergency passports, sporting white covers.
 Diplomatic passports, sporting turquoise covers.
 Service passports, sporting turquoise covers.
 Special passports, sporting turquoise covers.
 Immigrant passport, issued to those who lack Norwegian citizenship and have a residence permit in Norway, but cannot get a passport from their country of citizenship. Their covers are grey. Holders are not permitted to travel to their country of citizenship with the passport.
 Immigrant passport for a single journey, issued to those who lack Norwegian citizenship and have a residence permit in Norway, but cannot get a passport from their country of citizenship in time for a sudden trip abroad. Their covers are also grey. The passport may only be used for a single journey.
Refugee travel document, issued to those granted asylum in Norway. Their covers are blue.

Physical appearance and data contained
Current Norwegian passports are red in colour, with the coat of arms of Norway emblazoned in the top left of the front cover. The words "Kongeriket Norge", "Kongeriket Noreg", "Norgga gonagasriika" and "Kingdom of Norway"  ("Kingdom of Norway" in Bokmål and Nynorsk (the two forms of Norwegian), Northern Sami and English respectively) are inscribed in the bottom left corner and the word "Pass", "Pássa" and "Passport" emblazoned below the name of the country. In the bottom right corner is the standard biometric symbol.

The pre-october 2020 version of the regular Norwegian passports was burgundy in colour, similar but not identical to the design of most EU countries. It had the coat of arms of Norway emblazoned in the top of the front cover.  The words "NORGE", "NOREG" and "NORWAY" ("Norway" in Bokmål, Nynorsk and English, respectively) are inscribed below the coat of arms and the word "PASS" and "PASSPORT" emblazoned below the name of the country. Biometric passports have the standard biometric symbol at the bottom.

Identity information page

The current version Norwegian passport includes the following data:

 Photo of passport holder
 Type (a two-letter code beginning with "P")
 Code of Issuing State (NOR)
 Passport No.
 Surname
 Given Names
 Nationality (NORSK/ NORWEGIAN)
 Date of birth
 Date of issue
 Date of expiry
 Issuing authority (The police district)
 Sex
 Height
 Place of birth (Three letter country code, NOR for those born in Norway)
 CAN (six digit number)

The holder's signature and Personal No. was included on the information page in the previous passport version but was moved in the current version. 

The information page ends with the machine-readable zone starting with "P<NOR", the previous version started with "PxNOR, where x indicated the type of passport. For example, ordinary passports contained "PVNOR", where the "V" presumably means "vanlig" ("ordinary" in Norwegian.)

Biometric data
According to Council Regulation (EC) 2252/2004 and 444/2009, Norwegian passports have to comply with minimum security standards. Norway is bound by the regulations as they constitute a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis within the meaning of the Agreement concluded by the Council of the European Union and Iceland and Norway.

The biometric passports contain a radio-frequency identification (RFID) chip containing the passport's printed data in a digital format along with the photograph in a JPEG format and with a digital key to verify that the data contained is authentic and hasn't been tampered with. Fingerprint data was required to be stored on Schengen member states’ passports from 2009. Norway started storing fingerprint data of persons applying for a new passport on 6 April 2010.