[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Lebanon hostage crisis

in Europe had been freed. Islamic Dawa Party members convicted of terrorism in Kuwait had been freed by the Iraqi invasion. There was no need to pressure Western supporters of Iraq because the Iran–Iraq War was over. It was pretty well established that the four missing Iranians were no longer alive.

More importantly Iran was in need of foreign investment "to repair its economy and infrastructure" after the destruction on the border areas in the Iran–Iraq War, and Syria needed "consolidation of its hegemony over Lebanon" and to obtain Western aid to compensate for the loss of Soviet support following the collapse of the Soviet Union. Syria was actively pressuring Hezbollah to stop the abductions and a February 1987 attack by Syrian troops in Beirut that harassed members of Hezbollah was in part an expression of Syrian irritation with the continued hostage-taking. Hezbollah had guarantees from Syria that despite the end of the Lebanese Civil War, it would be allowed to remain armed, while all other Lebanese militias would be disarmed, on the grounds that Hezbollah needed its weapons to fight Israeli occupation in the South.

This combination of factors created a setting whereby UN Secretary-General Javier Pérez de Cuéllar and his personal envoy, Giandomenico Picco (served on the Board of Governmental Relations for the American Iranian Council), could negotiate "a comprehensive resolution to the hostage-crisis". By December 1991, Hezbollah had released the last hostage in return for Israel's release of imprisoned Shi'ites.

Timeline

1982
 1982 July 5 – The first foreign hostages abducted in Beirut were four Iranians taken at a Phalangist checkpoint.Hirst, David (2010) Beware of Small States. Lebanon, battleground of the Middle East. Faber and Faber.  pp.225-226
 1982 July 19 – Abduction: First Westerner abducted is David Dodge, the acting president of the American University of Beirut (AUB) (American). Suggested motivation: the abduction of David Dodge came directly in response to the previous kidnapping of four employees of the Iranian Embassy in Beirut by the Israeli-backed Phalangist militia on July 5, 1982." Dodge was the most prominent American citizen in Lebanon next to the U.S. Ambassador. Declared abductor: Islamic Jihad Organization. Alleged abductor: "it seems clear that the abduction of David Dodge was initiated by the Pasdaran contingent in Lebanon...the operation was executed by Husayn al-Musawi's Islamic Amal".
 1983 July 21 – Release: David Dodge

1984
 1984 February 11 – Abduction: Frank Regier, engineering professor at the AUB (American) and Christian Joubert (French) Suggested motivation: 25 arrested in Kuwait in wake of Dec. 1983 multiple terrorist attacks. three are Lebanese Shi'ites.
 1984 March (late) – Abduction: Jeremy Levin, Bureau chief of Cable News Network (American), and William Buckley "diplomat" actually Station chief, Central Intelligence Agency (American).
 1984 March 27 – Sentencing: Kuwait's State Security Court sentence Elias Fouad Saab to death ... while Hussein al-Sayed Yousef al-Musawi receive life-imprisonment and Azam Khalil Ibrahim receives 15 years imprisonment. Hezbollah threatens to kill hostages if bombers are executed.
 1984 April 15 – Release: Frank Regier by Amal militiamen, who raided the Beirut hideout of his captors.
 1984 May – Abduction: Presbyterian minister Benjamin Weir (American). Suggested motivation: another effort to pressure Kuwait to accede to its demands of freedom or leniency for the prisoners. Declared abductor: "Islamic Jihad organization."
 1984 August 29 – Abduction of British Journalist Jonathan Wright
 1984 December 3 – Abduction: Peter Kilburn, librarian at AUB.Alleged abductor: "appears to have been perpetrated by Islamic Amal with close Iranian involvement." (p. 93)