[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Italian occupation of France

rance.

Operating from Bordeaux Sommergibile ("BETASOM") as it was known, thirty-two Italian submarines participated in the Battle of the Atlantic. These submarines sank 109 Allied merchant ships (593,864 tons) and 18 warships (20,000 tons) up to September 1943. Eleven of these submarines were lost.

Italian territorial claims
In addition to Nice/Nizza and Corsica, the Italians projected further territorial claims for the defeated France. In 1940, the Italian Armistice Commission (Commissione Italiana d'Armistizio con la Francia, CIAF) produced two detailed plans concerning the future of the occupied French territories.  Plan 'A' presented an Italian military occupation all the way to the river Rhone, in which France would maintain its territorial integrity except for Corsica and Nizza. Plan 'B', proposed by senator Francesco Salata, the director of a section of the ISPI dedicated to Italian territorial claims, encompassed the Italian annexation of the Alpes Maritimes (including the Principality of Monaco) and parts of Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, Hautes Alpes and Savoie. The territory would be administered as the new Italian region of Alpi Occidentali with the town of Briançon (Italian: Brianzone) acting as the provincial capital.

In popular fiction
 The 1961 French film Léon Morin, Priest includes scenes of Alpini and Bersaglieri occupying a French alpine town. There is also a reference to the Italians fighting the Germans in the town after the Italian armistice with the Allies. Director Jean-Pierre Melville, who belonged to the Resistance, called Beatrix Beck’s autobiographical novel “the most accurate picture I have read of life under the Occupation.” 
 The 1973 autobiographical novel A Bag of Marbles and subsequent film adaptations feature scenes of Jewish life under Italian occupation.
 1994 novel Wandering Star (Etoile errante) by French-language author J. M. G. Le Clézio revolves around a Jewish girl named Esther in Italian-occupied South-East France during WWII.
 The BBC sit-com 'Allo 'Allo!, set in WW2 occupied France, portrays a fictitious Italian army officer Captain Bertorelli, in addition to German Wehrmacht officers.

See also
 Alpine Line
 Alpine Wall
 France–Italy relations
 Italian invasion of France
 Italian-occupied Corsica
 Military history of Italy during World War II

References

Further reading
 Ghetti, Walter. Storia della Marina Italiana nella seconda guerra mondiale. (Volume secondo). De Vecchi editore. Roma, 2001
 Rainero, R. Mussolini e Petain. Storia dei rapporti tra l'Italia e la Francia di Vichy. (10 giugno 1940-8 settembre 1943), Stato Maggiore dell'Esercito-Ufficio Storico, Roma, 1990
 Rochat, Giorgio. Le guerre italiane 1935–1943. Dall'impero d'Etiopia alla disfatta Einaudi editore. Torino, 2002
 Schipsi, Domenico. L'occupazione Italiana dei territori metropolitani francesi (1940–1943), Stato Maggiore dell'Esercito-Ufficio Storico, Roma, 2007
 Sica, Emanuele Mussolini's Army In the French Riviera, the Italian occupation of France, University of Illinois Press, 2016
 Varley, Karine. "Between Vichy France and Fascist Italy: Redefining Identity and the Enemy in Corsica during the Second World War", Journal of Contemporary History 47:3 (2012), 505–27.
 Varley, Karine. "Vichy and the Complexities of Collaborating with Fascist Italy: French Policy and Perceptions between June 1940 and March 1942." Modern & Contemporary France 21.3 (2013): 317–333.

World War II occupied territories
Former subdivisions of France
Military history of France during World War II
France, occupation of
States and territories established in 1940
States and territories disestablished in 1943
Italian irredentism
History of Savoy
Italian military occupations
Military occupations of France
France–Italy military relations