[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# November 1976

accident killed 38 people who were being transported to the polling location, when the driver of a bus failed to stop at a ferry crossing and fell into the Urubu River.
Born: Claudia Llosa, Peruvian film director; in Lima
Died: Jean Gabin (stage name for Jean-Alexis Moncorgé), 72, French film actor

Tuesday, November 16, 1976
The government of Chile, led by General Augusto Pinochet, announced that it would release all but 20 of the 343 people it considered "political prisoners", those held without being charged with a crime during the state of siege that had existed in the South American nation since the coup d'état that had overthrown President Salvador Allende on September 11, 1973.  Another 900 people who had been convicted of security offenses, or were charged and awaiting trial, remained incarcerated and were not considered to be political prisoners by the government.  The next day, Chile released 130 political prisoners from the Tres Alamos detention camp near Santiago.
East Germany singer and poet Wolf Biermann, a dissident opposed to that nation's Communist government, was informed while on a concert tour of West Germany that he had been deprived of his East German citizenship and would not be allowed to return.  In response, 13 of East Germany's best-known artists and authors, all risking their careers, signed a letter to the government announcing that "We protest against his being stripped of his citizenship.  Within two days, more than 70 other leading East German playwrights, actors, directors and singers had joined the protest.
Died: 
Robert L. Lippert, 67, American film producer and cinema chain owner
Niwa Kawamoto, 113, Japanese woman who had been the oldest living person in the world since the death of Mito Umeta on May 31, 1975.

Wednesday, November 17, 1976
In an operation ordered by King Hussein of Jordan, commandos of the Army of Jordan landed by helicopter on the roof of the Intercontinental Hotel in Amman and overpowered four Palestinian guerrillas who had taken guests and employees hostage.  In the gunbattle, three gunmen, two hotel employees and two Jordanian soldiers were killed.
The British government ordered the expulsion from the United Kingdom of former American CIA agent Philip Agee, describing him as a threat to national security.  The move, by Home Secretary Merlyn Rees, came less than 24 hours after the British had ordered the deportation of Mark Hosenball, an American reporter working for Evening Standard newspaper of London.  Hosenball had been cited in a letter from the Home Office, delivered to the newspaper office by two policemen on November 16, with Rees stating that "Mr. Hosenball has, while resident in the United Kingdom, in consort with others sought to obtain and has obtained for publication information harmful to the security of the United Kingdom and... this information has included information prejudicial to the safety of servants of the Crown."
Sir Deighton Lisle Ward became the new Governor-General of Barbados, replacing the late Arleigh Winston Scott, who had died on August 9, 1976.

In the U.S., the National Gallery of Art opened a 7-city tour of the United States for the popular "Treasures of Tutankhamun" exhibit to display part of the treasures recovered from the Tomb of Tutankhamun (the remains of King Tut, who reigned from 1332 BC to 1323 BC, stayed in Egypt). The display began in the Gallery at Washington, D.C., then moved to Chicago's Field Museum, followed by the New Orleans Museum of Art, the Los Angeles County Museum, the Seattle Art Museum,New York City's Metropolitan Museum of Art and San Francisco and sold 10 million of tickets, with crowds camping out on the museum's grounds in order to be guaranteed the chance to see the pharaoh. 
Born:  
Diane Neal, American television actress known for Law & Order: Special Victims Unit; in Alexandria, Virginia
Brandon Call, American television child actor known for Step by Step; in Torrance, California
Died: Philip Taft, 74, American labor historian known as co-author (in 1935 with Selig Perlman) of History of Labor in the United States, 1896–1932 and for nine books regarding the history of the American Federation of Labor and other labor unions.

Thursday, November 18, 1976
The members of Spain's Parliament, the Cortes Generales, voted 425 to 59 to approve democratic elections for a new parliament, and effectively "voted itself out of existence."  Nearly all of the legislators had been appointed by the nation's dictator, General Francisco Franco, who had died on November 20, 1975, after ruling Spain for almost 40 years.  The proposal was approved overwhelmingly in a referendum on December 15 and the first elections for the Congress of Deputies and for the Senate would take place on June 15, 1977.