[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cerberus Capital Management

ake in Avon Products, Inc.
 On January 26, 2016, Keane, a well completion services company owned by Cerberus, agreed to acquire the majority of Canada-based Trican Well Services Ltd.'s U.S. assets for $247 million.
 On May 27, 2016, Cerberus sold its 57% stake in Blue Bird Corporation, an independent designer and manufacturer of school buses, to an affiliate of American Securities.
 On June 23, 2016, General Electric announced a sale of its consumer finance business, GE Money Bank, to an affiliate of Cerberus.
 On July 1, 2016, Cerberus acquired auto parts supplier ABC Group.
 On December 7, 2016, Staples, Inc. and Cerberus announced they had entered into an agreement in relation to the sale of a controlling interest in Staples' European operations to a Cerberus affiliate.
 In February 2018, Cerberus acquired HSH Nordbank.
 In October 2019, Cerberus acquired Stratolaunch Systems, an aerospace company formed by Microsoft co-founder Paul G. Allen in 2011 that has built the world's largest airplane (by wingspan): the Stratolaunch After the acquisition, Stratolaunch is now focusing on offering high-speed flight test services. In March 2020, Cerberus faced backlash after threatening to close the unprofitable Easton Hospital in Lehigh Valley, Pennsylvania, amid the coronavirus pandemic.

 In October 2021, Cerberus sold the securitization fund manager Haya Titulización to Beka Finance.

 In November 2022, Cerberus acquired the Port of Subic Bay ahead of an impending return of more frequent visits by U.S. Navy vessels to the area of Central Luzon in the Philippines, amid rising tensions with China.

 Additional involvements by sector 
Pharmaceuticals
In December 2004, the company announced the acquisition of Bayer's plasma products business and renamed it Talecris Biotherapeutics. It purchased Talecris for $83m, and sold the bulk of its shares in October 2009, for a net gain of $1.8bn.

Paper products
The company acquired MeadWestvaco's paper business for $2.3B in 2005 and renamed it NewPage. Cerberus also purchased, from Georgia Pacific Corporation, its Distribution Division/Building Products and all of its associated real estate. It renamed this new company BlueLinx Holdings, based in Atlanta.

Aviation
The Portuguese company TAP Portugal was bought by a consortium that included David Neeleman (Founder of Azul Linhas Aéreas Brasileiras, JetBlue Airways and WestJet) and Humberto Pedrosa.

Government services (military, energy, and food & drug)
Cerberus owns IAP Worldwide Services, which bought Johnson Controls' World Services division in February 2005.  Previously owned Multimax (purchased predecessor company in 2000 and Multimax in 2006; sold entire holding in 2007 to Harris Corporation). Cerberus owns Tier 1 Group, a private company that provides military training.

Real estate
Through investment affiliate Cerberus Real Estate, the company has been making direct equity, mezzanine, first mortgage, distressed and special situation investments in all asset types.  Cerberus also has a minority stake in Miami Beach-based LNR Property, a large real estate development and investment firm through subsidiary Riley Property. In October 2015 Cerberus completed an acquisition from Building and Land Technology of a portfolio of single family rental homes to be managed by its affiliated company, FirstKey Homes, LLC; there are currently more than 6,000 homes in the portfolio.

Retail
Cerberus purchased 655 of the 2,500 Albertson's, Inc., grocery stores, forming Albertsons LLC of Boise, Idaho, in June 2006. It also had an ownership stake in the now-bankrupt Mervyn's department stores, which was acquired from Target Corp. In May 2012, Cerberus sold its holdings in Torex Retail Holdings, Ltd., a Dunstable, England-based provider of information technology systems for the retail, fuel and convenience stores and pub markets in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe that was acquired in June 2007, to MICROS Systems, Inc. In January 2013, it announced a deal to acquire 877 stores in the Albertson's, Acme, Shaw's and Star Market chains from SuperValu for $100 million and acquisition of $3.2 billion on SuperValu debt. In February 2014, it was reported that Safeway Inc was in advanced talks with private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management LP over a leveraged buyout deal. After integrating the Safeway purchase, on October 14, 2022 Kroger announced it would be acquiring Albertsons for $25 billion, combining the largest and second-largest supermarket chains in North America.