[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The People of Paper

ame from Little Merced; Ignacio, the mechanic who provides the lead shields; Apolonio, a curandero who helps Froggy overcome his sadness at losing Sandra; Santos, a saint who has been hiding from the church by living as a popular luchador; and Baby Nostradamus, an infant whose mother tells fortunes.

II: Cloudy skies and lonely mornings
At the beginning of this section, it is revealed that the character/narrator Saturn is a pseudonym for author Salvador Plascencia, and that he has given up on the novel after his girlfriend Liz leaves him for another man due to his obsessive war with Federico de la Fe and the EMF (a loose parallel to Merced leaving Federico). Much of this section looks at the Saturn/Plascencia's personal life, including his attempts to communicate with Liz and his later relationship with Cameroon, a woman who gives herself bee-stings (much like Federico de la Fe burns himself). The chapter also discusses Saturn/Plascencia's great-grandfather Don Victoriano, who is described as also being the ancestor of the people of Las Tortugas and of Antonio the origami surgeon. Other characters include Cameroon's long-lost father, Jonathan Mead, who is nervously preparing to call her for the first time in years; hoteliers Natalia and Quinones Hernandez, who run a honeymooners-only hotel that Saturn/Plascencia and Cameroon fraudulently check into; and Ralph and Elisa Landin, who are financially supporting the writing of the novel, even though Saturn/Plascencia uses much of the money for non-authorial expenses.

The section ends with two chapters related to Cameroon and Liz: first, it is revealed that Cameroon has since left Saturn/Plascencia because of his many lies, such as falsifying Rita Hayworth's biography; second, Liz writes a chapter pointing out that the novel is a public discourse and therefore an unfair site for Saturn/Plascencia to take out his anger on her, such as by using the false biography of Rita Hayworth as a metaphor for their failed relationship. She also notes that he has now unfairly brought several other people from his life into the story, including his great-grandfather Don Victoriano and Cameroon. She pleads with him, "if you still love me, please leave me out of this story. Start this book over, without me." After this the title page and first dedication page reappear, but not the dedication page for Liz, an absence that suggests the book will start over without reference to Liz. Then the third section begins.

III: The sky is falling
The third book begins with Saturn briefly silent, but eventually returning to his watching over El Monte. Meanwhile, the EMF members have realized that the lead shielding is making them all sick; with the help of Apolonio the curandero, they regain their health and tear down all the lead. Little Merced learns from Baby Nostradamus the secret of how to block her thoughts from Saturn and, eventually, how to extend that block to everyone else; however, she is killed by citrus poisoning and remains dead for five days, until Apolonio finds a way to resurrect her; revived, she has to relearn how to shield thoughts. Federico de la Fe and Froggy realize that a better way to fight Saturn is not to shield their thoughts but to think and speak openly, thus literally crowding Saturn to the margins with their own words; at this section, the pages become crowded with characters narrating, and Saturn's passages shrink to just a corner of the page. Eventually, the sky above the town starts to crumble, and the EMF think they have succeeded. Apolonio's becomes caretaker for the orphaned Baby Nostradamus, his shop is raided by the church, and he is officially excommunicated from the Church. And Merced de Papel is killed in a car accident.

In Plascencia's world, Cameroon discovers to her horror that other people already know her because of Plascencia's book, in which she died and was buried in the ocean to be food for the fish. Her father does not find her, but he does explain why he abandoned her when she was a child. The Landins discover that Plascencia has been misusing their money, and they withdraw their support. Plascencia continues to try to contact Liz, who replies that what she did was not as bad as Plascencia has made it; with this, Plascencia starts to let go of his anger and returns his gaze to the town of El Monte. Watching over the townspeople, he eventually comes to Baby Nostradamus, through whom Plascencia sees a future for all the characters, including one in which Liz, still married to the man she left Plascencia for, thinks fondly of Saturn/Plascencia. While Plascencia/Saturn again drifts into a fantasy of what their life would have been like, Little Merced helps Federico de la Fe to leave El Monte and to walk "off the page, leaving no footprints that Saturn could track".

References