[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Undersea Kingdom

television in 1966. It was renamed as Sharad of Atlantis.  This version was cut down to 100 minutes in length.

Critical reception
In the words of film historian William C. Cline, Undersea Kingdom was a "totally unbelievable – but visually enjoyable – twelve-chapter madhouse chase."

Chapter titles

 Beneath the Ocean Floor (30 min 51s)
 The Undersea City (19 min 13s)
 Arena of Death (18 min 58s)
 Revenge of the Volkites (18 min 7s)
 Prisoners of Atlantis (17 min 33s)
 The Juggernaut Strikes (16 min 40s)
 The Submarine Trap (17 min 20s)
 Into the Metal Tower (16 min 49s)
 Death in the Air (16 min 48s)
 Atlantis Destroyed (17 min 28s)
 Flaming Death (19 min 23s)
 Ascent to the Upperworld (16 min 54s)
Source:

Cliffhangers

Cliffhangers
 Beneath The Ocean Floor: Flying torpedoes cause a landslide and blow Crash and Billy off a cliff as they try to escape the Volkites.
 The Undersea City: Crash is hit by an atom gun and falls down an elevator shaft.
 Arena of Death: Crash is dragged behind a chariot.
 Revenge of the Volkites: During a siege, Crash and Moloch fall into the path of a Black Robe cavalry charge.
 Prisoners of Atlantis: Diana is trapped in the brainwashing Transformation Chamber.
 The Juggernaut Strikes: As Crash (with Billy on his back) walks a tightrope across a chasm, Ditmar snaps the cable with torpedoes.
 The Submarine Trap: Crash is caught an explosion when an arrow hits the cylinders of Priming Powder.
 Into the Metal Tower: Crash is tied to the front of the Juggernaut (The Black Robe Tank) as it rams the gates of the sacred city.
 Death in the Air: The heroes' aircraft is shot down by Unga Khan.
 Atlantis Destroyed: The heroes are caught in the Sacred City under aerial bombardment.
 Flaming Death: Crash and Professor Norton are caught in the jets of Unga Khan's rocket engines.

Solutions
Many of the solutions to these cliffhangers are "cheats"- they change or obviously do not match the events shown in the preceding cliffhanger.

 The Undersea City: Crash and Billy take cover on the other side of the peak.
 Arena of Death: Crash does not fall but catches the side of the shaft and climbs down.
 Revenge of the Volkites: Crash climbs into the chariot and takes over.
 Prisoners of Atlantis: Crash and Moloch lie flat and are unharmed as the charge passes around them.
 The Juggernaut Strikes: Crash rescues Diana before the process is completed.
 The Submarine Trap: Crash grabs hold of the cable before it snaps and they are able to drop safely to the ground.
 Into the Metal Tower: Crash dives underwater moments before the explosion.
 Death in the Air: Despite the visible effects of crashing into the gate in the previous chapter, this time the gates are opened before impact and the Juggernaut simply enters the courtyard.
 Atlantis Destroyed: Crash, Billy and Professor Norton climb out of the wreckage without significant injury.
 Flaming Death: Although Sharad is killed when a column falls on him, none of the heroes are seriously injured.
 Ascent to the Upper World:'' Moloch is caught in the flames and dies, but Crash and Professor Norton escape to shelter in a lower level of the caves under Unga Khan's tower.

See also
 List of film serials
 List of film serials by studio
 List of films in the public domain in the United States

References

External links

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1936 films
1936 adventure films
1930s fantasy films
Films set in Atlantis
American black-and-white films
1930s English-language films
Films directed by B. Reeves Eason
Films directed by Joseph Kane
Republic Pictures film serials
American science fiction adventure films
American science fiction short films
Films set in the Atlantic Ocean
Articles containing video clips
Films produced by Nat Levine
American fantasy adventure films
1930s science fiction films
1930s American films