[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 180]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

fe infinitely more tolerable, and in a very little space
of time he was almost reconciled to his new situation. The additional
exercise he used improved his health and strength, and added so
considerably to his appetite that he began to think the table of farmer
Sandford exceeded all that he had ever tried before.

By thus practising the common useful occupations of life, he began to
feel a more tender interest in the common concerns of his
fellow-creatures. He now found, from his own experience, that Mr Barlow
had not deceived him in the various representations he had made of the
utility of the lower classes, and consequently of the humanity which is
due to them when they discharge their duty. Nor did that gentleman
abandon his little friend in this important trial; he visited him
frequently, pointed out everything that was curious or interesting about
the farm, and encouraged him to persevere by his praises.

"You are now," said Mr Barlow, one day, "beginning to practise those
virtues which have rendered the great men of other times so justly
famous. It is not by sloth, nor finery, nor the mean indulgence of our
appetites, that greatness of character, or even reputation, is to be
acquired. He that would excel others in virtue or knowledge, must first
excel them in temperance and application. You cannot imagine that men,
fit to command an army, or to give laws to a state, were ever formed by
an idle and effeminate education. When the Roman people, oppressed by
their enemies, were looking out for a leader able to defend them, and
change the fortune of the war, where did they seek for this
extraordinary man? It was neither at banquets, nor in splendid palaces,
nor amid the gay, the elegant, or the dissipated; they turned their
steps towards a poor and solitary cottage, such as the meanest of your
late companions would consider with contempt; there they found
_Cincinnatus_ (whose virtues and abilities were allowed to excel all the
rest of his citizens) turning up the soil with a pair of oxen, and
holding the plough himself. This great man had been inured to arms and
the management of public affairs even from his infancy; he had
repeatedly led the Roman legions to victory, yet, in the hour of peace,
or when his country did not require his services, he deemed no
employment more honourable than to labour for his own subsistence.

"What would all your late friends have said, to see the greatest men in
England, and the bravest officers of the army, crowding round the house
of one of those obscure farmers you have been accustomed to despise, and
entreating him in the most respectful language to leave his fields and
accept of the highest dignity in the government or army? Yet this was
actually the state of things at Rome; and it was characters like these,
with all the train of severe and rugged virtues, which elevated that
people above all the other nations of the world. And tell me, my little
friend, since chance, not merit, too frequently allots the situation in
which men are to act, had you rather, in a high station, appear to all
mankind unworthy of the advantages you enjoy, or, in a low one, seem
equal to the most exalted employments by your virtues and abilities?"

Such were the conversations which Mr Barlow frequently held with Tommy,
and which never failed to inspire him with new resolution to persevere.
Nor could he help being frequently affected by the comparison of Harry's
behaviour with his own. No cloud seemed ever to shade the features of
his friend, or alter the uniform sweetness of his temper; even the
repeated provocations he had received were either totally obliterated or
had made no disagreeable impressions. After discharging the necessary
duties of the day, he gave up the rest of his time to the amusement of
Tommy with so much zeal and affection that he could not help loving him
a thousand times better than before.

During the evening, too, Tommy frequently conversed with the honest
negro concerning the most remarkable circumstances of the country where
he was born. One night that he seemed peculiarly inquisitive, the Black
gave him the following account of himself:--

"I was born," said he, "in the neighbourhood of the river Gambia in
Africa. In _this_ country people are astonished at my colour, and start
at the sight of a black man, as if he did not belong to their species;
but _there_ everybody resembles me, and when the first white men landed
upon our coast, we were as much surprised with their appearance as you
can be with ours. In some parts of the world I have seen men of a yellow
hue, in others of a copper colour; and all have the foolish vanity to
despise their fellow-creatures as infinitely inferior to themselves.
There, indeed, they entertain these conceits from ignorance, but in this
country, where the natives pretend to superior reason, I have often
wondered they could be influenced by such a prejudice. Is a