[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Guerrilla Warfare (book)

gular armies, are already accustomed to extreme daily hardships. However, such a punishment need not be physical: for example, depriving a guerrilla of his weapon can wound his pride and motivate the desired corrected behavior.

Appendices
Two appendices further detail guerrilla military operations.

1. Organization in Secret of the First Guerrilla Band
Before the first guerrilla group commences its military operations, careful planning is essential. Bases, safe houses and supply caches must be established at multiple locations, and information must be tightly controlled and specialized among a few people, with no one knowing all details of military operation, so that it will be impossible for all secrets to be obtained by the enemy in the event that a given person is captured and tortured. The guerrillas must also physically disperse themselves throughout the countryside, so as not to call attention to themselves.

2. Defense of Power that has been Won
Following the defeat of the enemy army at the national level, care must also be taken to retain the political power which has been won. To counter an unfriendly international press, the war effort must continue to disseminate its own propaganda. Further, the whole cultural and military apparatus of the previous regime must be completely swept away, so that soldiers of the old army and their sympathizers cannot rise up again.

Epilogue
The book closes with an epilogue which explicitly treats the Cuban political situation as it existed shortly after the revolution, in 1961.

Analysis of the Cuban Situation, its Present and its Future
The epilogue details certain laws, entities and policies which were established in Cuba following the revolution, including the agrarian reform law and the INRA. The revolution's detrimental impact on the United Fruit Company and other capitalist interests are also mentioned. Although he identifies the United States as an enemy, Guevara closes with optimism for the future of Cuba.

Reception

Foreign military involvement 
While the book was intended for other revolutionary movements in Latin America, Africa, and Asia, it was also studied by counter-revolutionary military schools.

With the success of Che's military campaign in Cuba and the spread of communism in Latin America, U.S. military activity increased throughout the region. The U.S. military adopted some of Che's own tactics in order to better combat guerrilla fighters in the jungle. This entailed U.S. military training throughout Latin America in order to counteract the spreading of guerrilla movements throughout the region (for historical context on United States foreign policy in Latin America, see the Good Neighbor policy). Che faced the results of this training in his disastrous Bolivian Campaign ,in which most of the ELN rebels led by him were killed and Che himself was executed.

Reviews 
The book attracted analysis and criticism:

See also
Guerilla warfare
History of the Central Intelligence Agency
Yank Levy, author of an earlier book of the same name

References
Notes

Bibliography
.
.
.
.
.  
.
.

External links

Guerrilla Warfare Text of the book at the Internet Archive
Review: According to Che M. Abul Fazl, June 14, 2009.
Che's Thoughts on the Essence of Guerilla Struggle (Archive) Extract.

Books by Che Guevara
Marxist books
Guerrilla warfare handbooks and manuals
1961 non-fiction books