[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# American Chinese cuisine

erent culinary traditions. Some Chinese dishes are typically served as part of plate lunches in Hawaii.

The names of foods are different as well, such as Manapua, from the Hawaiian contraction of "Mea ono pua'a" or "delicious pork item" from the dim sum bao, though the meat is not necessarily pork.

Other regions
 Chow mein sandwich — sandwich of chow mein and gravy (Southeastern Massachusetts and Rhode Island)
 Chop suey sandwich — sandwich of chicken chop suey on a hamburger bun (North Shore of Massachusetts)
 St. Paul sandwich — egg foo young patty in plain white sandwich bread (St. Louis, Missouri)
 Springfield-style cashew chicken — a style of cashew chicken that combines breaded deep-fried chicken, cashew nuts, and oyster sauce (Springfield, Missouri)
 War/wor sue gai (boneless almond chicken) — bite-sized Southern-style fried chicken with yellow sauce (Columbus, Ohio)
 Yaka mein — Chinese-Creole food found in New Orleans that evolved from beef noodle soup

Chain restaurants

 China Coast — closed in 1995; owned by General Mills Corporation, formerly 52 locations throughout the United States
 Leeann Chin — Minnesota and North Dakota; owned at one time by General Mills Corp.
 Manchu Wok — throughout the United States and Canada, as well as Guam, Korea and Japan
 Panda Express — throughout North America (including Canada and Mexico), plus locations in Asia and the Middle East
 Pei Wei Asian Diner — throughout the United States; formerly a subsidiary of P.F. Chang's
 P. F. Chang's China Bistro — throughout the United States; featuring California-Chinese fusion cuisine
 Pick Up Stix — California, Arizona, and Nevada
 Stir Crazy — Illinois, Missouri, Wisconsin, Minnesota, New York, Florida, Indiana, Texas, and Ohio

Popular culture
Many American films (for example: The Godfather; Ghostbusters; The Lost Boys; The Naked Gun; Crossing Delancey; Paid in Full; and Inside Out) involve scenes where Chinese take-out food is eaten from oyster pails. A consistent choice of cuisine in all these cases, however, might just be an indicator of its popularity. A running gag in Dallas is Cliff Barnes' fondness for inexpensive Chinese take-out food, as opposed to his nemesis J. R. Ewing frequenting fine restaurants.

Among the numerous American television series and films that feature Chinese restaurants as a setting include  A Christmas Story, Seinfeld (particularly the episode "The Chinese Restaurant"), Sex and the City, Big Trouble in Little China, South Park, Year of the Dragon, Lethal Weapon 4, Mickey Blue Eyes, Booty Call, Rush Hour 2, and Men in Black 3. In most cases, it is not an actual restaurant but a movie set that typifies the stereotypical American Chinese eatery, featuring "paper lanterns and intricate woodwork", with "numerous fish tanks and detailed [red] wallpaper [with gold designs]" and "golden dragons", plus "hanging ducks in the window".

Cultural impact

Impact on United States 
In 2023, there are more Chinese restaurants in the United States than all American fast food restaurants combined. Chinese American cuisine provides an option for Americans to taste Chinese food, which is adapted to both Chinese and American flavors. It allows people in America to learn more about Chinese traditional culture and customs. In this process, Chinese Americans have developed a new cuisine which is different from "traditional Chinese food," and contribute to the food diversity in America. Through running their own restaurants or eateries, first-generation Chinese immigrants eliminated discrimination against them and gained sufficient income to send the next generations to universities or colleges. For Chinese Americans, American Chinese cuisine has already become part of their childhood memories and life,which also would be a bridge between Chinese and American cultures. For example, Panda Express and P.F. Chang's, two of the most famous American Chinese restaurants in the United States that have become the symbol of American Chinese cuinsine and have gained appreciation from many Americans.

In addition, American Chinese cuisine brought some new ingredients and cooking methods to the United States, such as stir-frying and steaming. Thus, many restaurants in the United States started to combine existing dishes with Chinese cooking techniques and flavors, which promoted the development of fusion cuisine.Introduction of Chinese food also triggered people's curiosity about more Asian food, such as Japanese, Thai and Singaporean food, and led to a prevalence of Asian cuisine.