[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aid Convoy

distinct from The Kemptown Network, and became known as "Brighton Lifeline for Kosova". After subsequently incorporating a Brighton student-run group (which had sent six vehicles to Kosovar refugees in Albania), the conjoined committees decided to adopt the name "Brighton Lifeline Humanitarian Aid".

The next convoy was one of the first Western charitable convoys to enter Kosovo itself after the NATO bombing campaign of spring 1999, and travelled with sponsorship from the University of Aberdeen Students' Representative Council (now Aberdeen University Students' Association), and in conjunction with Workers' Aid for Kosova. The convoy's six vehicles travelled to Pristina and Kosovska Mitrovica, where the University of Prishtina Students' Union and various miners' trade unions were supported.

During this month-long project the team also developed contacts in Đakovica and Prizren, and in Rubik, Albania.

The group continued to travel to Kosovo, often in conjunction with British Humanitarian Aid and Tewkesbury Independent Aid. Successes of these combined convoys included the delivery of ambulances and surgical equipment to a hospital in Gnjilane. The organisation has met and worked with representatives of other NGOs including CO-PLAN, the International Organization for Migration, the International Rescue Committee, and the British Council.

In 2001, with large amounts of international redevelopment support entering Kosovo, it was decided that the group's particular form of support would be of greatest value in Ukraine, working with colleagues from Charities met during the Kosovo work, including Tewkesbury Independent Aid again, and also Horsham-based Bear Essential Aid. The initial target for aid was the "Aratta centre for children and families" (Aratta, for short), a Ukrainian public organisation which supports people living with the legacy of Chernobyl. The work with Aratta continued for several years, later evolving into work with the Our Generation youth group, as well as hospitals, orphanages and schools in the area.

During 2002–03 the organisation was renamed Aid Convoy, in order to leave behind the association with only one British town.

Further work in Albania began in 2003 following a novel fund-raising event, "Canvas", which took the form of a raffle of works of art in Brighton. The success of that event led to an ongoing series of similar high-value art raffles for both Aid Convoy and other charities.

Since 2009, consultancy and support has been given to Viva Palestina and other charities, with convoys delivering medical aid to Gaza.

In 2010, Aid Convoy's Director Kieran Turner was kidnapped – and later released – while supporting the Road to Hope aid convoy to Gaza.

References
Footnotes

Bibliography
 "Shelled, stranded and still hoping to return to Kosova"; The Argus (newspaper); Newsquest, Brighton, Thursday August 19, 1999
 RAC staff newsletter (autumn issue, 1999); The Royal Automobile Club; London, 1999
 Turner, Kieran: "Aid Convoy — humanitarian aid & community development"; Brighton Lifeline Humanitarian Aid, Brighton, 2003

External links
 Aid Convoy website
 Our Generation – Ukrainian youth group and a major partner of Aid Convoy
 Aratta – Ukrainian charity for families near Chernobyl (site in Russian)
 Details of UK Immigration Removal Centres (including Tinsley House, mentioned above)

Humanitarian aid organizations in Europe
Charities based in the United Kingdom
Organizations established in 1999
1999 establishments in the United Kingdom