[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kidnapping into slavery in the United States

thods included keeping proof of their freedom with them at all times and avoiding contact with strangers as well as certain areas. Vigilante groups were also formed to attack kidnappers, including black kidnappers, the latter of whom were universally condemned by the free African-American community.

From Philadelphia, high constable Samuel Parker Garrigues took several trips to Southern states at the behest of mayor Joseph Watson to rescue children and adults who had been kidnapped from the city's streets. He also successfully went after their abductors. One such case was Charles Bailey, kidnapped at fourteen in 1825 and finally rescued by Garrigues after a three-year search. Unfortunately, the beaten and emaciated youth died a few days after being brought back to Philadelphia. Garrigues was able to find and arrest Bailey's abductor, Captain John Smith, alias Thomas Collins, head of "The Johnson Gang". He also tracked down and arrested John Purnell of the Patty Cannon gang. Watson publicized the hunt for the kidnappers in several newspapers, offering a $500 reward. On one occasion,  a courageous 15 year old Black boy named Sam Scomp spoke out about his kidnapping during his attempted sale to a white southern planter named John Hamilton.   The planter himself contacted Mayor Watson to arrange a rescue of the boy and another kidnapped youth.

Recipients of stolen goods 
Slavery in Alabama (1950) recounts two stories illustrating the difficulty of escaping once sold south. In the first, two family members were able to prove they were stolen and legally free in the north, but the Alabama courts simply never addressed the claim, just passing it forward for years. In another case, the buying family had no guilt about owning a legally free person:

In popular culture 
In 1853, Solomon Northrup published Twelve Years A Slave, a memoir of his kidnapping from New York and twelve years spent as a slave in Louisiana. His book sold 30,000 copies upon release.  His narrative was made into a 2013 film, which won three Academy Awards. Comfort: A Novel of the Reverse Underground Railroad by H. A. Maxson and Claudia H. Young, came out in 2014.

Abolitionist publications frequently used accounts of people who were kidnapped into slavery for their publications. Notable works that published these accounts include The African Observer, a monthly publication that used firsthand accounts to demonstrate the evils of slavery, as well as Isaac Hopper's Tales of Oppression, a compilation by the abolitionist Isaac Hopper of kidnapping accounts.

Notable illegal slave trader kidnappers and illegal slave breeders
 Patty Cannon and Cannon-Johnson Gang
 John Hart Crenshaw
 John A. Murrell

Notable victims
 Solomon Northup
 Cornelius Sinclair
 The sons of Jude Hall

Gallery

See also
 Black Codes (United States)
 Fugitive Slave Act of 1850
 Judicial aspects of race in the United States
 Jim Crow laws
 Delphine LaLaurie
 Solomon Northup
 Racial segregation in the United States
 Slave catcher
 Slave codes
 Sundown town
 Slavery in the United States
 Underground Railroad

References