[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ISO 15926

logy (NIST) released a report on the impact of the lack of digital interoperability in the capital projects industry. They pegged the cost of inadequate interoperability to be $5.8 billion per year. The full report is over 200 pages.

The standard 
ISO 15926 has thirteen parts (as of February 2022):

 Part 1 - Overview and fundamental principles
 Part 2 - Data model 
 Part 3 - Reference data for geometry and topology
 Part 4 - Reference Data, the terms used within facilities for the process industry
 Part 6 - Methodology for the development and validation of reference data (under development)
 Part 7 - Template methodology
 Part 8 - OWL/RDF implementation
 Part 9 - Implementation standards, with the focus on standard web servers, web services, and security (under development)
 Part 10 - Conformance testing
 Part 11 - Methodology for simplified industrial usage of reference data (under development)
 Part 12 - Life cycle integration ontology in Web Ontology Language (OWL2)
 Part 13 - Integrated lifecycle asset planning

Description 
The model and the library are suitable for representing lifecycle information about technical installations and their components.

They can also be used for defining the terms used in product catalogs in e-commerce. Another, more limited, use of the standard is as a reference classification for harmonization purposes between shared databases and product catalogues that are not based on ISO 15926.

The purpose of ISO 15926 is to provide a Lingua Franca for computer systems, thereby integrating the information produced by them. Although set up for the process industries with large projects involving many parties, and involving plant operations and maintenance lasting decades, the technology can be used by anyone willing to set up a proper vocabulary of reference data in line with Part 4.

In Part 7 the concept of Templates is introduced. These are semantic constructs, using Part 2 entities, that represent a small piece of information. These constructs then are mapped to more efficient classes of n-ary relations that interlink the Nodes that are involved in the represented information.

In Part 8 the Part 7 Templates are defined in OWL and instantiated in RDF. For validation and reasoning purposes all are represented in First-Order Logic as well.

In Part 9 these Node and Template instances are stored in an RDF triple store, set up to a standard schema and an API.
Each participating computer system maps its data from its internal format to such ISO-standard Node and Template instances.

Data can be "handed over" from one triple store to another in cases where data custodianship is handed over (e.g. from a contractor to a plant owner, or from a manufacturer to the owners of the manufactured goods). Hand-over can be for a part of all data, whilst maintaining full referential integrity.

Documents are user-definable. They are defined in XML Schema and they are, in essence, only a structure containing cells that make reference to instances of Templates. This represents a view on all lifecycle data: since the data model is a 4D (space-time) model, it is possible to present the data that was valid at any given point in time, thus providing a true historical record. It is expected that this will be used for Knowledge Mining.

Data can be queried by means of SPARQL. In any implementation a restricted number of triple stores can be involved, with different access rights. This is done by means of creating a CPF Server (= Confederation of Participating Façades). An Ontology Browser allows for access to one or more triple stores in a given CPF, depending on the access rights.

Projects and applications 
There are a number of projects working on the extension of the ISO 15926 standard in different application areas.

Capital-intensive projects 
Within the application of Capital Intensive projects, some cooperating implementation projects are running:

 The DEXPI project: The objective of DEXPI is to develop and promote a general standard for the process industry covering all phases of the lifecycle of a (petro-)chemical plant, ranging from specification of functional requirements to assets in operation.

Finalised projects include:

 The EDRC Project of FIATECH Capturing Equipment Data Requirements Using ISO 15926 and Assessing Conformance.
 The ADI Project of FIATECH, to build the tools (which will then be made available in the public domain)
 The tools and deliverables can be seen on the ISO 15926 knowledge base
 The IDS Project of POSC Caesar Association, to define product models required for data sheets
 A joint ADI-IDS project is the ISO 15926 WIP