[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# August 1976

s formed by six universities.  Only one of the original members, the University of South Alabama, remains in the now 12-member conference.
Died:  Lord Thomson of Fleet, Canadian-born British publishing mogul who built the Thomson Organization that owned The Times of London

August 5, 1976 (Thursday)

Big Ben, the largest bell within London's Clock Tower of Westminster, failed to ring and the clock stopped at 3:45 in the morning after metal fatigue caused the machinery to stop running. Although the hands of the clock's four faces were soon operating again after the repairs made by Westminster's chief engineer, Geoffrey Buggin, a winding drum fell off, breaking the 110-year-old chiming mechanism.  The bells of Big Ben— which had operated regularly since 1859— would be require multiple repairs over the next nine months, but restored in time for the silver Jubilee of Queen Elizabeth's coronation in May.
An explosion at an underground mine in Yugoslavia's Bosnian republic, at Breza, killed 17 of the 118 workers underground.  The blast occurred at a depth of .
As part of the American Basketball Association–National Basketball Association merger, a dispersal draft was conducted for teams to pick the players who had been under contract for the two ABA franchises which had folded, the Kentucky Colonels and the Spirits of St. Louis (who had announced that they would play in Salt Lake City as the "Utah Rockies" if there was a 1976-77 ABA season). The Chicago Bulls, who had had the worst record during the 1975–76 NBA season, selected Artis Gilmore of the Colonels as the first pick overall; the Bulls had drafted Gilmore in the seventh round of the 1971 NBA draft.  Twelve players were selected overall by the 23 NBA teams, with 11 teams electing not to draft anyone at all.
Born: 
May Sabai Phyu, Myanmar feminist and human rights activist; in Rangoon, Burma (now Yangon, Myanmar)
Napoleon Beazley, American murderer known for being executed for a killing committed as a juvenile; in Grapeland, Texas (d. 2002)
Died: 
Mapetla Mohapi, 28, black South African inmate who was the first person to be detained under Section 6 of the new Terrorism Act, was found dead in his cell, supposedly strangled by a pair of jeans.  A purported suicide note was later shown to have been a forgery.
Dr. Fager, 12, American thoroughbred racehorse and 1968 American Horse of the Year, after winning seven major races that year.

August 6, 1976 (Friday)
The Indian state of Maharashtra became the first governmental unit to enact legislation mandating compulsory sterilization of men and women, passing the Family (Restrictions on Size) Bill on its third reading and sending it to the President of India for the required assent.  The President reacted favorably and sent the bill back to the Maharashtra government with suggested amendments that would be necessary for an enactment, but before the measure could be passed, new elections were called and the legislation was not passed.  Under the terms of the bill, "couples with three or more living children" (with the exception of all boys or all girls) were required "to submit one parent for sterilization or face six months in jail." More specifically, the law obligated men up to the age of 55 to receive a vasectomy "within 180 days of the birth of their third living child", except if a vasectomy would endanger the man's life, in which case a woman up to age 45 would have to submit to a tubal ligation.  The national government's incentive program, however, reportedly resulted in a 200 percent increase in sterilizations compared to 1975.
Former UK Postmaster General John Stonehouse was sentenced to 7 years' jail for fraud, theft and forgery.
Born: 
Travis Kalanick, American entrepreneur who co-founded the internet taxi and delivery company Uber in 2009; in Los Angeles
Soleil Moon Frye, American TV actress known as the star of Punky Brewster; in Glendora, California
Melissa George, Australian-born American film and TV actress; in Perth, Western Australia
Died: 
Gregor Piatigorsky, 73, Russian-born American cellist
Maria Klenova, 77, Soviet Russian marine geologist and Arctic explorer

August 7, 1976 (Saturday)