[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rajagopala Chidambaram

s emphasized the need for 'Coherent Synergy' (a phrase he has coined) in India's Science & Technology (S&T) efforts to take India on a sustained fast-growth path. He has also focused on the importance of 'Directed Basic Research' as an addition to (not a substitute for) self-directed basic research.

Awards and honours
Chidambaram is the recipient a number of awards and honours. The Indian Government acknowledged his contribution to the successful nuclear tests by awarding the Padma Shri, the fourth highest Civilian honour of the nation, in 1975 and the Padma Vibushan, the second highest civilian honour, in 1999. His other prominent awards are the Distinguished Alumnus Award of the Indian Institute of Science (1991), the C.V. Raman Birth Centenary Award of the Indian Science Congress Association (1995), the Distinguished Materials Scientist of the Year Award of the Materials Research Society of India (1996), the R.D. Birla Award of the Indian Physics Association (1996), the H. K. Forodia Award for Excellence in S & T (1998), the Hari Om Prerit Senior Scientist Award (2000), the Meghnad Saha Medal of the Indian National Science Academy (2002), the INS Homi Bhabha Lifetime Achievement Award of the Indian Nuclear Society (2006), the Life Time Contribution Award in Engineering (2009) from Indian National Academy of Engineering, the C.V. Raman Medal of the Indian National Science Academy. 
He has been awarded D.Sc. degrees (Honoris Causa) by more than twenty universities in India and abroad. Chidambaram is a Fellow of all the science Academies in India and the Third World Academy of Science (TWAS), Trieste (Italy). 
He has also served as a member, chairman and president of a number of organizations which, among others, include IIT-Madras, IIT-Bombay, the Materials Research Society of India, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), and the International Union of Crystallography. In early 2008, the IAEA invited Chidambaram to be a member of the "Commission of Eminent Persons", for making recommendations to the Board of Governors, regarding long-term priorities and funding. He is Indian Fellow of Indian National Science Academy. Dr. Chidambaram is chairman of Board of Governance of IIT Jodhpur.

References

External links

 Information page at the Technology Information Forecasting & Assessment Council
 Home Page of the Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India
 The May 1998 Pokhran Tests: Scientific Aspects

Recipients of the Padma Vibhushan in science & engineering
Tamil physicists
International Atomic Energy Agency officials
University of Madras alumni
Indian Institute of Science alumni
1936 births
Living people
Indian metallurgists
Indian nuclear physicists
Scientists from Chennai
Recipients of the Padma Shri in science & engineering
20th-century Indian physicists
Indian condensed matter physicists
Madurai Kamaraj University alumni