[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mahmoud Mohieldin

ince its commencement, has become one of the biggest and most successful events in the Faculty of Economics and Political Science in Cairo University and many other universities in Egypt. Mohieldin also founded and supervised the Economists' Society at the Faculty of Economics and Political Science.

While studying at the University of Warwick (1992–1995), he was an active student as a coordinator of the Graduate Students-Staff Liaison Committee, Department of Economics; chairman of the Cultural Committee of the General Association of Egyptian Students in the UK; undergraduate economics tutor; and development economics tutor, and a co-founder of the Economic Society.

Ministry of Investment
Mohieldin was appointed Minister of Investment upon its establishment in 2004. The ministry was established with a mandate to reform the investment climate in Egypt, further develop non-bank financial services, and introduce a comprehensive Asset Management Program for State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs). He led a comprehensive structural and regulatory reform program to modernize and liberalize the Egyptian economy in those three critical areas – leveraging private investment for growth and job creation; enhancing access to non-bank financial services; and implementing a successful asset management program of public enterprises.

Private investment: through his major legislative and institutional reforms, there was a tangible impact on both domestic investments, as well as FDI inflows. Between 2004–05 and 2006–07, private sector investments grew at an average annual rate of 40% and FDI inflows increased from $2 billion in 2004 50 $13.2 billion in 2008. As a result of his leadership, Egypt was named Top Reformer for four years in the Doing Business Report and was the top regional recipient of foreign direct investment.

Financial services and corporate governance: Mohieldin has established a global reputation for effective and strategic management and built an outstanding record of results including creating an effective single regulator for the non-bank financial sector, the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority (EFSA); building a stock market for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Nile Stock Exchange (NILEX); creating the first institute of directors in the Arab World; developing an environmental, social and governance index with Standard & Poor's for companies listed on the Egyptian Exchange (S&P/EGX ESG Index); developing the first Arabic Code of Conduct for corporate governance and introducing guidelines for corporate social responsibility; consolidating and liberalizing the insurance sector and enhancing its regulatory framework; and developing the mortgage finance market and launching Egypt's first liquidity facility for a mortgage refinance. These regulatory reform measures helped allow the non-bank financial services industry to accommodate new products as well as position Egypt as the regional center for financial services at the time.

Asset Management Program: By adopting a comprehensive asset management program, the Ministry of Investment, under the leadership of Mohieldin, eliminated the £E32 million debt of State-Owned Enterprises, and brought it to zero; its net assets went from negative to positive. By 2007/08, the portfolio was generating a profit of £E5.1 billion. The ministry also significantly enhanced the corporate governance of SOEs.

World Bank Group 
Mohieldin joined the bank in October 2010 as managing director. As managing director, Mohieldin oversaw the networks responsible for human development, sustainable development, poverty reduction and economic management, finance and private sector development, the World Bank Institute, largely responsible for knowledge building and sharing, as well as improving cross-network collaboration. Areas of work also included the Millennium Development Goals, cooperatives, Islamic finance, migration, public-private partnerships, financial inclusion, as well as guidance and support on the World Bank's World Development Reports. Mohieldin also served as the World Bank deputy to the G20.
 
In January 2013, he became the president's special envoy on the Millennium Development Goals, the Post-2015 Development Agenda, and Financing for Development. His primary responsibilities were to act as the focal point on discussions related to the post-2015 agenda (later, the sustainable development goals), to support the framing of the agenda, support the acceleration of the MDGs, and improve coordination with the Multilateral Development Banks. A key initiative was the adoption of an MDG acceleration framework by the UN Chief Executives Board (CEB), which was rooted in enhanced collaboration between all agencies to address key bottlenecks in selected countries. His work also entailed strengthening the relationship between the World Bank and the United Nations.