[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chapter Two of the Constitution of South Africa

tation allows for the South African government to enact the Black Economic Empowerment program, which seeks to redress the inequalities of Apartheid by giving previously disadvantaged groups (black Africans, Coloureds and Indians who are SA citizens) preference treatment in employment, tenders, etc.

Human dignity
Section 10 states "Everyone has inherent dignity and the right to have their dignity respected and protected".
The bill of rights is the basis on which constitutional matters form. It consists of several limitations including violating people's dignity in a form of body shaming, race, sex, cultural background, social background, and wealth.

Life

Section 11 states "Everyone has the right to life". In S v Makwanyane the Court found the right to life guaranteed by the Interim Constitution prohibited the death penalty. The court has subsequently ruled that capital punishment is also forbidden by the current constitution.

Freedom and security of the person
Section 12 protects "Freedom and Security of the Person". The Section sets out the rights contained under this provision, which include standard due process provisions, freedom from arbitrary arrest, freedom from torture, and freedom from cruel, inhuman, or degrading punishment. The Section also stipulates the freedom from all forms of violence, regardless of whether a public or private source. This provision is unique amongst human rights instruments.

The Section starts with "Everyone has the right to freedom and security of the person, which includes the right not to be deprived of freedom arbitrarily or without just cause; not to be detained without trial; to be free from all forms of violence from either public or private sources; not to be tortured in any way; and not to be treated or punished in a cruel, inhuman or degrading way".

The Section also covers reproductive rights, although not extensively defined. Adding to this the Section grants "security in and control over" the own body and to not be subjected to medical or scientific experiments without informed consent. These two provisions are unique amongst human rights instruments.

The Section reads "Everyone has the right to bodily and psychological integrity, which includes the right to make decisions concerning reproduction; to security in and control over their body; and not to be subjected to medical or scientific experiments without their informed consent.

Slavery, servitude and forced labour
Section 13 states "No one may be subjected to slavery, servitude or forced labour".

Privacy
Section 14 contains detailed provisions on the right to privacy. Defining the scope as follows: "Everyone has the right to privacy, which includes the right not to have the person or their home searched; their property searched; their possessions seized, or the privacy of their communications infringed".;

Freedom of religion, belief and opinion
Section 15 states "Everyone has the right to freedom of conscience, religion, thought, belief and opinion".

The Section expands on the Right to freedom of religion by stating “ Religious observances may be conducted at state or state-aided institutions, provided that those observances follow rules made by the appropriate public authorities; they are conducted on an equitable basis, and attendance at them is free and voluntary.

The Section also seeks to define how the right to freedom of religion, belief, and opinion is balanced against tradition and custom, by stating "This section does not prevent legislation recognizing marriages concluded under any tradition, or a system of religious, personal or family law; or systems of personal and family law under any tradition, or adhered to by persons professing a particular religion. “ The Section also provides that "Recognition in terms of paragraph (a) must be consistent with this section and the other provisions of the Constitution".

Freedom of expression
Section 16 contains detailed provisions concerning freedom of expression, stating "Everyone has the right to freedom of expression, which includes freedom of the press and other media; freedom to receive or impart information or ideas; 
freedom of artistic creativity; and academic freedom and freedom of scientific research".

Section 16 contains the following limitations to freedom of expression "The right in subsection (1) does not extend to propaganda for war; incitement of imminent violence; or advocacy of hatred that is based on race, ethnicity, gender or religion, and that constitutes incitement to cause harm..”

Assembly, demonstration, picket and petition
Section 17 states "Everyone has the right, peacefully and unarmed, to assemble, to demonstrate, to picket and to present petitions".
..

Freedom of association
Section 18 states "Everyone has the right to freedom of association".