[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 51]
# The Republic — Plato

ercises of strength and dexterity. But what
enhanced so much the charm of these accomplishments, was the delightful
modesty which enabled him to avoid offence in either act or word to
others, for he was deferential to the great men, modest with his
equals, and courteous to his inferiors. These gifts made him beloved,
not only by all the Guinigi family, but by all Lucca. When Castruccio
had reached his eighteenth year, the Ghibellines were driven from Pavia
by the Guelphs, and Messer Francesco was sent by the Visconti to assist
the Ghibellines, and with him went Castruccio, in charge of his forces.
Castruccio gave ample proof of his prudence and courage in this
expedition, acquiring greater reputation than any other captain, and
his name and fame were known, not only in Pavia, but throughout all
Lombardy.

Castruccio, having returned to Lucca in far higher estimation than he
left it, did not omit to use all the means in his power to gain as many
friends as he could, neglecting none of those arts which are necessary
for that purpose. About this time Messer Francesco died, leaving a son
thirteen years of age named Pagolo, and having appointed Castruccio to
be his son’s tutor and administrator of his estate. Before he died
Francesco called Castruccio to him, and prayed him to show Pagolo that
goodwill which he (Francesco) had always shown to HIM, and to render to
the son the gratitude which he had not been able to repay to the
father. Upon the death of Francesco, Castruccio became the governor and
tutor of Pagolo, which increased enormously his power and position, and
created a certain amount of envy against him in Lucca in place of the
former universal goodwill, for many men suspected him of harbouring
tyrannical intentions. Among these the leading man was Giorgio degli
Opizi, the head of the Guelph party. This man hoped after the death of
Messer Francesco to become the chief man in Lucca, but it seemed to him
that Castruccio, with the great abilities which he already showed, and
holding the position of governor, deprived him of his opportunity;
therefore he began to sow those seeds which should rob Castruccio of
his eminence. Castruccio at first treated this with scorn, but
afterwards he grew alarmed, thinking that Messer Giorgio might be able
to bring him into disgrace with the deputy of King Ruberto of Naples
and have him driven out of Lucca.

The Lord of Pisa at that time was Uguccione of the Faggiuola of Arezzo,
who being in the first place elected their captain afterwards became
their lord. There resided in Paris some exiled Ghibellines from Lucca,
with whom Castruccio held communications with the object of effecting
their restoration by the help of Uguccione. Castruccio also brought
into his plans friends from Lucca who would not endure the authority of
the Opizi. Having fixed upon a plan to be followed, Castruccio
cautiously fortified the tower of the Onesti, filling it with supplies
and munitions of war, in order that it might stand a siege for a few
days in case of need. When the night came which had been agreed upon
with Uguccione, who had occupied the plain between the mountains and
Pisa with many men, the signal was given, and without being observed
Uguccione approached the gate of San Piero and set fire to the
portcullis. Castruccio raised a great uproar within the city, calling
the people to arms and forcing open the gate from his side. Uguccione
entered with his men, poured through the town, and killed Messer
Giorgio with all his family and many of his friends and supporters. The
governor was driven out, and the government reformed according to the
wishes of Uguccione, to the detriment of the city, because it was found
that more than one hundred families were exiled at that time. Of those
who fled, part went to Florence and part to Pistoia, which city was the
headquarters of the Guelph party, and for this reason it became most
hostile to Uguccione and the Lucchese.

As it now appeared to the Florentines and others of the Guelph party
that the Ghibellines absorbed too much power in Tuscany, they
determined to restore the exiled Guelphs to Lucca. They assembled a
large army in the Val di Nievole, and seized Montecatini; from thence
they marched to Montecarlo, in order to secure the free passage into
Lucca. Upon this Uguccione assembled his Pisan and Lucchese forces, and
with a number of German cavalry which he drew out of Lombardy, he moved
against the quarters of the Florentines, who upon the appearance of the
enemy withdrew from Montecarlo, and posted themselves between
Montecatini and Pescia. Uguccione now took up a position near to
Montecarlo, and within about two miles of the enemy, and slight
skirmishes between the horse of both parties were of daily occurrence.
Owing to the illness of Uguccione, the Pisans and Lucchese delayed
coming to battle with the enemy. Uguccione, finding himself growing
worse, went to Montec