[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Douglas Murray (author)

nge Death of Europe, he writes that Europe and its values are committing suicide due to mass immigration; in the opening pages, he calls for halting Muslim immigration. In the book, he also details crimes committed by immigrants in Europe and writes favourably of immigration hard liner Viktor Orbán.

In 2018, Murray filmed a video for PragerU entitled "The Suicide of Europe". In the video, he condemned "The mass movement of peoples into Europe…from the Middle East, North Africa and East Asia" and criticized European multiculturalism. Writing in the news website Sludge, journalist Alex Koch accused the video of "evok[ing] the common white nationalist trope of white genocide with its rhetoric of 'suicide' and 'annihilation'." Koch interviewed a senior editor at the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism, Mark Pitcavage, who accused the video of being "filled with anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim rhetoric". Similarly, the Southern Poverty Law Center claimed that the video was a "dog whistle to the extreme right".

In September 2016, Murray supported Donald Trump's proposal for a wall along the southern border of the United States. In January 2017, Murray defended Executive Order 13769 which banned entry to the U.S. by citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries.

Gender and sexuality 
Murray is gay, and he is a supporter of same-sex marriage. He has said that he believes that homosexuality "is an unstable component on which to base an individual identity and a hideously unstable way to try and base any form of group identity". In his book The Madness of Crowds: Gender, Race and Identity, Murray asserts that homophobia has mostly been vanquished.

Murray has said that it is a lie that a man can become a woman. In September 2020, during an appearance on Joe Rogan's podcast, Murray compared accepting trans people to "late-empire sign of things falling apart". He has stated that he thinks there is no such thing as non-binary gender.

In September 2019, Murray said in an interview that women are held to a different standard than men when it comes to sexual behaviour, citing instances involving Drew Barrymore, Jane Fonda and Mayim Bialik behaving sexually towards men without backlash from the media.

Foreign policy 
In his book Neoconservatism: Why We Need It, Murray argues that neoconservatism is necessary for fighting against dictatorships and human rights abuses. Murray has called for continuing the War on terror on Iran, Syria, and any regime which supports terrorism. He has also said that he believes that the political left or right have no desire for foreign interventions since John McCain's death.

On June, 2013, Murray opposed American or British intervention in the Syrian civil war and wrote "as the composition of the military opponents has become clearer—al Qaeda-linked Islamists dominating one side, Bashar al-Assad's forces and Hezbollah the other—it has become obvious that the window of opportunity for outside intervention is closed". In 2021, Murray chastised the Biden administration for withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan and for attempting to portray the withdrawal as a success.

Murray supported the Iraq War and wrote in 2004, "Iraq may be the big intervention of this generation. Success means the success of the Iraqi nation in a region of failing states and unprecedented freedom for a nation previously cowed by brutalism and ignored by pacifism. Failure means not only the failure of the Arab world to allow freedom and democracy to stick, and the failure of the civilized world to stand up to tyranny, but the failure and loss of many more lives in a country which finally found hope and a future." Murray also defended the war against critics on multiple occasions.

In 2013, Murray condemned journalist Owen Jones for mistakenly saying that Israel had killed an eleven month old child in a military strike. Jones responded by criticising Murray for ignoring a UN report which reported an Israel airstrike had killed numerous innocent civilians. In 2014, Murray defended and supported Israel during 2014 Israel-Gaza conflict. Murray also defended Israel's right to defend itself, saying, "If you don't believe that Israel has the right to stop a group that has proposed repeatedly since its existence that it wants to annihilate Israel, if you believe that Israel doesn't have the right to try and stop this enemy, then of course you don't believe Israel has the right to exist; you believe Israel has the right to die." During a visit to Israel in 2019, Murray praised Israeli society, saying that Israel "has a healthier attitude towards nationalism than Europe" and lauded Israel's restrictive approach to immigration. In 2019, Murray supported the Trump administration's decision to formally recognize Israel's sovereignty over the Golan Heights.