[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Vanished (TV series)

John Allen Nelson would star opposite Harold. On June 19, 2006, it was learned that Penelope Ann Miller would guest star in six episodes and have the option of becoming a regular. It was then announced that Josh Hopkins would guest on several episodes and that Eddie Cibrian would also join the cast.

Gale Harold departed the series after the eighth episode after his character was killed off by the show's producers. Eddie Cibrian was named the lead actor of the series beginning with the ninth episode.

On November 15, 2006 Fox announced they were pulling the show for the rest of sweeps but that it would return on December 1, 2006. On November 16, 2006, Fox said that the show would not return to television and the remaining four episodes would be available online only, with one new show added every Friday and the series finale added December 8, 2006. Originally, the online episodes were only watchable by Windows users visiting Fox's website. Fox has since put the entire series of Vanished online on Hulu.

Episodes 

<small>† These episodes were shown on Vanished'''s MySpace page.</small>

 Cast and characters 

 Main 
 Gale Harold as Graham Kelton
 Eddie Cibrian as Daniel Lucas
 John Allen Nelson as Jeffrey Collins
 Joanne Kelly as Sara Collins
 Rebecca Gayheart as Judy Nash
 Margarita Levieva as Marcy Collins
 John Patrick Amedori as Max Collins
 Chris Egan as Ben Wilson
 Robert Hoffman as Adam Putnam
 Ming-Na Wen as Lin Mei

 Recurring 
 Bianca Kajlich as Quinn Keeler
 Gary Werntz as Edward Morell
 Esai Morales as Michael Tyner
 Christopher Neame as Claude Alexander
 Christopher Cousins as Wallace Rainer
 Brian Elliott as DC Field Agent
 Josh Hopkins as Peter Manning
 David Berman as Edward Dockery
 Leslie Odom Jr. as Malik Christo
 Joseph C. Phillips as J.T. Morse
 Michael Harney as Robert Rubia
 Brandon Quinn as Mark Valera
 Randy Oglesby as Mr. Jerome
 Robin Pearson Rose as Mrs. Jerome
 Penelope Ann Miller as Jessica Nevins
 Michael O'Keefe as Bob Nagel
 Juliette Goglia as Becca Jerome
 Arie Verveen as Aaron Hensliegh
 Tom Schmid as Crane

 Ratings history and reaction 
Despite earning mixed reviews, Vanished had a strong series premiere. Many Prison Break fans kept the channel on Fox to see the new thriller. When the second episode premiered, overall audience share declined compared to the first week. Yet, the show actually increased its share of the coveted 18-to-49-year-old demographic.

The premiere managed to beat TV's two highest rated sitcoms, Two and a Half Men and The New Adventures of Old Christine, in total viewers.

In later weeks the ratings started to show a continued decline due to the strong performance of NBC's new series, Heroes, and returning shows featured in CBS's Monday-night comedy lineup. Although Fox continued to air the series in the U.S., the Global Television network in Canada cancelled the series after airing only five episodes.

Following a three-week hiatus due to the Major League Baseball playoffs, Fox moved Vanished to the Friday Night Death Slot, where only two further episodes were broadcast. The first of these nominally starred Gale Harold, who had been dramatically killed off on episode 7, following weeks of rumors and a storm of viewer protest on various websites. Though Harold appeared as a corpse for a few seconds, this was actually the first episode to feature the show's new leading man Eddie Cibrian. The ratings had plummeted, slicing viewership in half and dropping Vanished to last place in its time slot. The following week the show did even worse, earning only 0.9% of the most desirable 18-to-49-year-old demographic.

On November 15, 2006 Fox announced it was pulling the show for the rest of the November sweeps. The next day, Fox had not yet officially cancelled the series, but announced that the final four unaired episodes would be made available in the U.S. only on the show's official MySpace, according to Fox's website.

In Australia, the first two episodes aired back to back and rated 1.1 million mainland capital city viewers, making it the winner of its time-slot and the eighth most watched program for the night. The third episode's ratings dropped slightly to 998,000 viewers, but retained eighth position for the night. By the fourth episode, ratings dropped again to 809,000 viewers and dropped to fifteenth position for the night. The final episode of Vanished, which screened on March 5, 2007, got 278,000 viewers.

In the United Kingdom, all the Vanished'' episodes aired on Channel Five in a late-night Sunday slot, averaging roughly 500,000 viewers per episode.

References

External links 
 

Serial drama television series
American thriller television series
Fox Broadcasting Company original programming
Television series by 20th Century Fox Television
2000s American crime drama television series
Television shows set in Atlanta
Fictional cults
2006 American television series debuts
2006 American television series endings
English-language television shows