[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1969 in the United Kingdom

an in the Church of Scotland takes place, that of Catherine McConnachie by the Presbytery of Aberdeen.
 29 March – Lulu, representing the UK with the song "Boom Bang-a-Bang", shares first place in the Eurovision Song Contest in a four-way tie with France, the Netherlands and the host country, Spain.

April
 April – The Raleigh Chopper children's wheelie bike is launched.
 1 April – The Hawker Siddeley Harrier GR.1 V/STOL "jump jet" fighter enters service with the Royal Air Force.
 9 April
 The British prototype Concorde airliner makes its first flight, from Bristol Filton Airport (the first French flight was on 2 March).
  Sikh busmen in Wolverhampton win the right to wear their turbans whilst on duty.
 17 April
Representation of the People Act lowers the voting age from 21 to 18 with effect from February 1970. It also permits candidates to have a party label included on the ballot paper, and removes the right (theoretically restored in 1967) of convicted prisoners to vote in Parliamentary elections.
 Bernadette Devlin wins the Mid Ulster by-election and becomes the youngest female MP (until 2015) at 21 years old.
 20 April – British troops arrive in Northern Ireland to reinforce the Royal Ulster Constabulary.
 22 April – Robin Knox-Johnston becomes the first person to make a solo non-stop global circumnavigation under sail, returning to Falmouth, Cornwall.
 24 April
 British Leyland Motor Corporation launches the United Kingdom's first production hatchback car, the Austin Maxi, designed to compete with family saloons like the Ford Cortina and following a new European design concept started in 1965 by French carmaker Renault's R16 range.
 The final episode of the long-running BBC Radio serial drama Mrs Dale's Diary is broadcast.
 26 April – Manchester City F.C. win the FA Cup with a 1-0 win over Leicester City in the Wembley final.
 28 April – Leeds United win the Football League First Division title for the first time in their history.

May
 2 May – Ocean liner Queen Elizabeth 2 departs from Southampton on her maiden voyage to New York.
 22 May – Chichester by-election, Christopher Chataway, who had lost his previous seat in the 1966 election, holds the seat for the Conservative Party.
 23 May – The Who release the concept album Tommy. (On 14 December they perform it as a rock opera on stage at the London Coliseum.)
 29 May – Carry On Camping is released, becoming the year's most popular film at the UK box office.

June
 7 June – Rock supergroup Blind Faith plays its first gig in front of 100,000 people in London's Hyde Park.
 14 June – The black horse Burmese, ridden by the Queen, makes her first appearance at Trooping the Colour; the horse will continue in this role until 1986.
 21 June
 The showing of television documentary The Royal Family, attracted more than 30,600,000 viewers, more than half of the entire UK population at the time, an all-time British record for a non-current event programme.
 Patrick Troughton makes his final appearance as the Second Doctor in Doctor Who in the final episode of The War Games which is also the last episode to be recorded in black and white. 
 24 June – After the 1969 Rhodesian constitutional referendum votes in favour of becoming a Republic, the Governor of Southern Rhodesia Sir Humphrey Gibbs leaves Government House, severing Rhodesia's last diplomatic relationship with the United Kingdom.
 30 June – Two members of the Mudiad Amddiffyn Cymru (Movement for the Defence of Wales) are killed when a bomb they are planting outside government offices in Abergele in an attempt to disrupt the following day's events explodes prematurely.