[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Clear Sky

es the digital rights management (DRM) software Tagès as copy prevention. Some versions can only be installed on a limited number of machines (5). It has been disabled via patches.

Special editions
Separate limited edition versions of the game were released in conjunction with the standard version.

The Russian limited edition is presented in a larger box and contains the game disc, a bonus disc, a neckerchief, an A2-sized map of the Zone, a patch with a logo of one of the game's factions, a dog tag, a custom lighter and a little white ball called "The Clear Sky Artifact".

The second limited edition, released in the rest of the world, is presented in a metal box and also contains a bonus disc filled with extras (such as bonus artwork, screen savers, making of videos, a five-part interview with Oleg Yavorsky the PR Director for GSC Game World and the soundtrack) and the A2-sized map of the Zone.

The Polish limited edition, presented in a medkit-like bag with the game's logo contains the game disc, soundtrack, patch with logo of one of the game's factions, stickers with logos, small map of the Zone, T-shirt with game's logo on chest and inscription "Сделано в Чернобыле" ("Made in Chernobyl") on the back.

Reception

The game received "generally favourable reviews" according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. Edge opined the game "turns the best and worst of PC gaming into something extraordinary."

References

External links

2008 video games
Alternate history video games
S.T.A.L.K.E.R.
Chernobyl disaster in fiction
Deep Silver games
First-person shooters
Horror video games
Lua (programming language)-scripted video games
Multiplayer and single-player video games
Open-world video games
Post-apocalyptic video games
Science fiction video games
Survival video games
Video game prequels
Video games developed in Ukraine
Video games set in abandoned buildings and structures
Video games set in 2011
Video games set in Ukraine
Windows games
Windows-only games