[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Master of Pharmacy

Master's degrees in pharmacy comprise both postgraduate and integrated master's programs in pharmacy, the latter of which comprises both undergraduate and postgraduate coursework and typically takes four to five years to complete.

Finland 

In Finland, proviisori is an academic degree awarded after completing the postgraduate program in pharmacy. The degree is equivalent to the English term Master of Pharmacy. A proviisori degree is required in order to be a druggist in Finland. Pharmacy is taught at the University of Helsinki and the University of Eastern Finland.

Israel
Starting in 2017, the Ben Gurion University of the Negev has begun offering a 2-year Master's program in Community Clinical Pharmacy and Regulatory Management. The program is available to Bachelor of Pharmacy graduates whom are listed as registered pharmacists in the country, with at least 2 years of work experience.

Malta 
The University of Malta, Department of Pharmacy within the Faculty of Medicine & Surgery, offers a Master of Pharmacy (M.Pharm.) course for students who have successfully completed the Bachelor of Science (Hons.) in Pharmaceutical Science. The MPharm is a requirement for obtaining the warrant to practice as a Pharmacist in Malta.

Poland 

In Poland, magister farmacji (abbreviated to mgr farmacji) is an academic degree awarded following five and a half years of academic study in pharmacy. Completing a dissertation in this area is a prerequisite. The degree is equivalent to American Pharm.D.

Ukraine 

National University of Pharmacy - Kharkiv 
Ternopil State Medical University - Ternopil
Danylo Halytsky Lviv National Medical University - Lviv
Kharkiv Medical Academy of Post-graduate Education - Kharkiv
Kyiv Medical University of UAFM - Kyiv

United Kingdom

In the United Kingdom, MPharm is a postgraduate academic degree awarded following four years of academic study in pharmacy. The degree is awarded by all of the schools of pharmacy in the UK and superseded the BSc (Pharmacy) or BPharm degree when the length of the undergraduate pharmacy course was increased from three to four years in 1997—partly due to EU harmonization of pharmacy training and partly to extend the scope of the undergraduate degree.

The MPharm is the only qualification in the UK which leads to professional registration as a pharmacist. MPharm programs are accredited by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) in England, Scotland and Wales, and Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (PSNI) in Northern Ireland. Aspiring pharmacists in the UK qualify by first completing this degree, then undertaking a year of foundation pharmacist training. On successful completion of this training, and after passing the registration assessment, they become registered pharmacists. In Great Britain it used to be the case, until September 2010, that with registration they became members of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, able to use the postnominal letters MRPharmS (Member of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain). However, the RPS split off its regulatory role in September 2010 and the new regulatory body, the GPhC, does not grant postnominals to its registrants. MRPharmS is still granted by the RPS to its member but no longer has an automatic link to current registration as a pharmacist. In Northern Ireland regulation has not been removed from the PSNI and therefore registration as a pharmacist and membership of the PSNI are still simultaneous, granting use of the postnominals MPSNI (Member of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland).

England

Aston University – Birmingham
University of Bath – Bath
University of Birmingham – Birmingham
University of Bradford – Bradford
University of Brighton – Brighton
University of Central Lancashire – Preston
De Montfort University – Leicester
University of Durham – Durham (transferring to Newcastle University in September 2017)
University of East Anglia – Norwich
University of Huddersfield – Huddersfield
Keele University – Keele
King’s College London - Waterloo, London
Kingston University - Kingston upon Thames, London (Co-taught at St George's, University of London.)
Medway School of Pharmacy – University of Greenwich/University of Kent
University College London - Bloomsbury, London (previously School of Pharmacy, University of London)
Liverpool John Moores University – Liverpool
University of Hertfordshire – Hatfield
University of Lincoln - Lincolnshire
University of Manchester – Manchester
University of Nottingham – Nottingham
University of Portsmouth – Portsmouth
University of Reading – Reading
University of Sussex – Sussex
University of Sunderland – Sunderland
University of Wolverhampton – Wolverhampton

Northern Ireland

Queen's University Belfast (QUB) – Belfast
University of Ulster (UU) - Coleraine

Scotland

University of Strathclyde – Glasgow
Robert Gordon University – Aberdeen

Wales

Cardiff University (Cardiff School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences) – Cardiff