[Source: PubMed]

97. Glob Ment Health (Camb). 2024 Mar 8;11:e32. doi: 10.1017/gmh.2024.29. 
eCollection 2024.

Strategies to improve the implementation and effectiveness of community-based 
psychosocial support interventions for displaced, migrant and host community 
women in Latin America.

Greene MC(1), Wimer G(2), Larrea M(3), Mejia Jimenez I(1), Armijos A(4), Angulo 
A(5), Guevara ME(4), Vega C(4)(6), Heard EW(1), Demis L(1), Benavides L(4), 
Corrales C(5), de la Cruz A(4), Lopez MJ(4), Moyano A(4), Murcia A(5), Noboa 
MJ(4), Rodriguez A(5), Solis J(5), Vergara D(4), Andersen LS(6), Cristobal M(7), 
Wainberg M(8), Bonz AG(7), Tol W(6)(9).

Author information:
(1)Program on Forced Migration and Health, Heilbrunn Department of Population 
and Family Health, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, New 
York, NY, USA.
(2)Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY, 
USA.
(3)Hunter College, City University of New York, New York, NY, USA.
(4)HIAS Ecuador, Quito, Ecuador.
(5)HIAS Panamá, Panamá City, Panamá.
(6)Global Health Section, Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)HIAS, Silver Spring, MD, USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians 
and Surgeons/New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, NY, USA.
(9)Athena Research Institute, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

As evidence supporting the effectiveness of mental health and psychosocial 
interventions grows, more research is needed to understand optimal strategies 
for improving their implementation in diverse contexts. We conducted a 
qualitative process evaluation of a multicomponent psychosocial intervention 
intended to promote well-being among refugee, migrant and host community women 
in three diverse contexts in Ecuador and Panamá. The objective of this study is 
to describe the relationships among implementation determinants, strategies and 
outcomes of this community-based psychosocial intervention. The five 
implementation strategies used in this study included stakeholder engagement, 
promoting intervention adaptability, group and community-based delivery format, 
task sharing and providing incentives. We identified 10 adaptations to the 
intervention and its implementation, most of which were made during 
pre-implementation. Participants (n = 77) and facilitators (n = 30) who 
completed qualitative interviews reported that these strategies largely improved 
the implementation of the intervention across key outcomes and aligned with the 
study's intervention and implementation theory of change models. Participants 
and facilitators also proposed additional strategies for improving reach, 
implementation and maintenance of this community-based psychosocial 
intervention.

© The Author(s) 2024.

DOI: 10.1017/gmh.2024.29
PMCID: PMC10988141
PMID: 38572247

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.