[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Mediation (statistics)

) and Y(x), respectively, we obtain what 
came to be known as "potential
outcomes" or "structural counterfactuals".
These new variables provide convenient notation
for defining direct and indirect effects. In particular,
four types of effects have been defined for the
transition from X = 0 to X = 1:

(a) Total effect –  
           
(b) Controlled direct effect -
 
(c) Natural direct effect -
 
(d) Natural indirect effect
 
Where E[ ] stands for expectation taken over the error terms.

These effects have the following interpretations:
 TE measures the expected increase in the outcome Y as X changes from X=0 to X =1, while the mediator is allowed to track the change in X as dictated by the function M = g(X, ε2).
 CDE measures the expected increase in the outcome Y as X changes from X = 0 to X = 1, while the mediator is fixed at a pre-specified level M = m uniformly over the entire population
 NDE measures the expected increase in Y as X changes from X = 0 to X = 1, while setting the mediator variable to whatever value it would have obtained  under X = 0, i.e., before the change.
 NIE measures the expected increase in Y when the X is held constant, at X = 1, and M changes to whatever value it would have attained (for each individual) under X = 1.
 The difference TE-NDE measures the extent to which mediation is necessary for explaining the effect, while the NIE measures the extent to which mediation is sufficient for sustaining it.

A controlled version of the indirect effect does not
exist because there is no way of disabling the 
direct effect by fixing a variable to a constant.

According to these definitions the total effect can be decomposed as a sum
 
where NIEr stands for the reverse transition, from
X = 1 to X = 0; it becomes additive in linear systems,
where reversal of transitions entails sign reversal.

The power of these definitions lies in their generality; they are applicable to models with arbitrary nonlinear interactions, arbitrary dependencies among the disturbances, and both continuous and categorical variables.

The mediation formula

In linear analysis, all effects are determined by sums of products of structural coefficients, giving
 
Therefore, all effects are estimable whenever the model is identified. In non-linear systems, more stringent conditions are needed for estimating the direct and indirect effects.
 For example, if no confounding exists, 
(i.e.,  ε1, ε2, and ε3 are mutually independent) the following formulas can be derived:

 

The last two equations are called Mediation Formulas and have become the target of estimation in many studies of mediation. They give distribution-free expressions for direct and indirect effects and demonstrate that, despite the arbitrary nature of the error distributions and the functions f, g, and h, mediated effects can nevertheless be estimated from data using regression. The analyses of moderated mediation and mediating moderators fall as special cases of the causal mediation analysis, and the mediation formulas identify how various interactions coefficients contribute to the necessary and sufficient components of mediation.

Example

Assume the model takes the form
 
where the parameter  quantifies the degree to which M modifies the effect of X on Y. Even when all parameters are estimated from data, it is still not obvious what combinations of parameters measure the direct and indirect effect of X on Y, or, more practically, how to assess the fraction of the total effect  that is explained by mediation and the fraction of  that is owed to mediation.  In linear analysis, the former fraction is captured by the product , the latter by the difference , and the two quantities coincide.  In the presence of interaction, however, each fraction demands a separate analysis, as dictated by the Mediation Formula, which yields:
 

Thus, the fraction of output response for which mediation would be sufficient is

 

while the fraction for which mediation would be necessary is

 

These fractions involve non-obvious combinations
of the model's parameters, and can be constructed
mechanically with the help of the Mediation Formula. Significantly, due to interaction, a direct effect can be sustained even when the parameter  vanishes and, moreover, a total effect can be sustained even when both the direct and indirect effects vanish.  This illustrates that estimating parameters in isolation tells us little about the effect of mediation and, more generally, mediation and moderation are intertwined and cannot be assessed separately.

References

Notes

Bibliography