[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Poverty in India

s of these initiatives include ration cards and price controls over the supply of basic commodities, particularly food at controlled prices, available throughout the country. These efforts prevented famines, but did little to eliminate or reduce poverty in rural or urban areas between 1950 and 1980.

India's rapid economic growth rate since 1991 is one of the main reasons for a record decline in poverty. Another reason proposed is India's launch of social welfare programs such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and the Midday Meal Scheme in government schools. In a 2012 study, Klonner and Oldiges, concluded that MGNREGA helps reduce rural poverty gap (intensity of rural poverty) and seasonal poverty, but not overall poverty. However, there is a disturbing side, as deprivation has tended to increase, and that too among the most deprived sections. According to the latest statistics published by the Census of India, among scheduled tribes, 44.7% of people were farmers working on their own land in 2001; however, this number came down to 34.5% in 2011. Among scheduled castes, this number declined from 20% to 14.8% during the same period. This data is corroborated by other data from the census, which also says that the number of people who were working on others' land (landless laborers), increased from 36.9% in 2001 to 44.4% among scheduled castes SC and from 45.6% to 45.9% among scheduled tribes.

India has achieved annual growth exceeding 7 percent over the last 15 years and continues to pull millions of people out of poverty, according to the World Bank. The country has halved its poverty rate over the past three decades and has seen strong improvements in most human development outcomes, a report by the international financial institution has found. Growth is expected to continue and the elimination of extreme poverty in the next decade is within reach, said the bank, which warned that the country's development trajectory faces considerable challenges.

UN
According to a United Nations report on 12 July 2023, India lifted approximately 415 million individuals out of  poverty between 2005/2006 and 2019/2021. The United Nations reported that 25 nations, including India, achieved a remarkable milestone by reducing their global MPI (Multidimensional Poverty Index) values by half within a span of 15 years. Additionally, the report highlighted that India experienced a reduction in deprivation across all indicators, with notable progress seen among the most impoverished states and marginalised populations, including children and disadvantaged caste groups.

See also

Economic and socio-economic
Economy of India
Income in India
India State Hunger Index
Poverty rate by state
Labour in India
Social issues in India
Hawker (trade)
Debt bondage in India

Housing
Illegal housing in India
List of slums in India
Housing in India
Pavement dwellers
Street children in India

Utilities
Electricity sector in India
Manual scavenging
Water supply and sanitation in India

Corruption
Corruption in India
Indian black money

Other
Family planning in India
Malnutrition in India
Women in agriculture in India

References

Further reading

External links