[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1877 in baseball

club agrees to play its home games in Brooklyn.  The team will retain the Hartford name, although it will only play 2 league games in Hartford.
March 22 – The National League publishes the 1877 schedule.  It is the first time the league has handled scheduling, a practice that continues to this day.

April–June
April 12 – Jim Tyng, a catcher for Harvard, becomes the first backstop to wear a face mask during a game.  Harvard team manager, Fred Thayer, will receive a patent for the mask in 1878.
May 2 – Boston, who will win the pennant with a 42–18 record in 1877, lose an exhibition game to the Allegheny club of the International League. Pud Galvin tosses a one-hit shutout and hits a home run to defeat the Red Caps 1–0.
May 3 – Five New England teams – the Fall River Cascades, Lowell Ladies' Men, Lynn Live Oaks, Manchester Reds and Providence Rhode Islands form the New England Association playing each other 10 games each for a 40-game schedule to decide the so-called "Championship of New England".
May 4 – Five New York State teams – the Auburn Auburnians, Binghamton Crickets, Buffalo Bisons, Rochester Flour Citys and Syracuse Stars form the New York State Association playing each other 10 games each for a 40-game schedule to decide the so-called "Championship of New York State". 
May 5 – Baseball's first "minor league" of sorts is formed as the National League recruits 12 teams to play in the "League Alliance".  The LA Eastern Division enlists the:  Brooklyn Chelseas, Philadelphia Athletics and Syracuse Stars while the LA Western Division enlists the: Chicago Fairbanks, Indianapolis Hoosiers, Janesville Mutuals, Memphis Reds, Milwaukee Cream Citys, Minneapolis Browns, St. Paul Red Caps and Winona Clippers.
May 10 – The Lowell Ladies' Men, members of the New England Association, affiliate themselves with the National League by joining the NL's "farm system", i.e. the League Alliance East Division.  Lowell competes in both circuits and wins the pennant in each.
May 17 – The National League votes to change to a livelier ball to replace the one described as being "dead enough to bury" in a special league meeting.
June 5 – Star pitcher Albert Spalding makes his last career start on the mound.
June 10 – St. Louis and Cincinnati play a Sunday exhibition game.  It will be the one and only Sunday game played in professional baseball until 1892.
June 18 – The Cincinnati club disbands after running out of money. The Buffalo Bisons of the New York Association also disband.
June 21 – Cincinnati stockholders re-structure the club in order to keep it running and maintain its place in the National League but 2 players, Jimmy Hallinan and Charley Jones, have already been signed by Chicago.  The Chicagos will return Jones on June 29, but will retain Hallinan.
June 30 – Cincinnati signs Candy Cummings to help bolster their pitching.  Cummings will continue to hold his position as President of the International League while playing in the NL.