[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Low-temperature thermal desorption

e effective on the same types of contaminants. The primary difference is that an afterburner is not required for incorporation of clean aggregate into the asphalt mix. In some areas, asphalt plants that use petroleum-contaminated soil for aggregate may be required to be equipped with an afterburner.

Thermal screw 
A thermal screw desorber typically consists of a series of 1-4 augers. The auger system conveys, mixes, and heats contaminated soils to volatilize moisture and organic contaminants into a purge gas stream. Augers can be arranged in series to increase the soil residence time, or they can be configured in parallel to increase throughput capacity. Most thermal screw systems circulate a hot heat-transfer oil through the hollow flights of the auger and return the hot oil through the shaft to the heat transfer fluid heating system. The heated oil is also circulated through the jacketed trough in which each auger rotates. Thermal screws can also be steam-heated. Systems heated with oil can achieve soil temperatures of up to 500 °F, and steam-heated systems can heat soil to approximately 350 °F.

Most of the gas generated during heating of the heat-transfer oil does not come into contact the waste material and can be discharged directly to the atmosphere without emission controls. The remainder of the flue gas maintains the thermal screw purge gas exit temperature above 300 degrees F. This ensures that volatilized organics and moisture do not condense. In addition, the recycled flue gas has a low oxygen content (less than 2% by volume) which minimizes oxidation of the organics and reduces the explosion hazard. If pretreatment analytical data indicates a high organic content (greater than 4 percent), use of a thermal screw is recommended. After the treated soil exits the thermal screw, water is sprayed on the soil for cooling and dust control. Thermal screws are available with soil treatment capacities ranging from 3-15 tons per hour.

Since thermal screws are indirectly heated, the volume of purge gas from the primary thermal treatment unit is less than one half of the volume from a directly heated system with an equivalent soil processing capacity. Therefore, offgas treatment systems consist of relatively small unit operations that are well suited to mobile applications. Indirect heating also allows thermal screws to process materials with high organic contents since the recycled flue gas is inert, thereby reducing the explosion hazard.

Conveyor furnace 
A conveyor furnace uses a flexible metal belt to convey soil through the primary heating chamber. A one-inch-deep layer of soil is spread evenly over the belt. As the belt moves through the system, soil agitators lift the belt and turn the soil to enhance heat transfer and volatilization of organics. The conveyor furnace can heat soils to temperatures from 300 to 800 degrees F. At the higher temperature range, the conveyor furnace is more effective in treating some heavier petroleum hydrocarbons than are oil- or steam-heated thermal screws, asphalt plant aggregate dryers, and carbon steel rotary dryers. After the treated soil exits the conveyor furnace, it is sprayed with water for cooling and dust control. As of February 1993, only one conveyor furnace system was currently in use for the remediation of petroleum contaminated soil. This system is mobile and can treat 5 to 10 tons of soil per hour.

Offgas treatment
Offgas treatment systems for LTTD systems are designed to address three types of air pollutants: particulates, organic vapors, and carbon monoxide. Particulates are controlled with both wet (e.g., venturi scrubbers) and dry (e.g., cyclones, baghouses) unit operations. Rotary dryers and asphalt aggregate dryers most commonly use dry gas cleaning unit operations. Cyclones are used to capture large particulates and reduce the particulate load to the baghouse. Baghouses are used as the final particulate control device. Thermal screw systems typically use a venturi scrubber as the primary particulate control.

The control of organic vapors is achieved by either destruction or collection. Afterburners are used downstream of rotary dryers and conveyor furnaces to destroy organic contaminants and oxidize carbon monoxide. Conventional afterburners are designed so that exit gas temperatures reach 1,400 °F to 1,600 °F. Organic destruction efficiency typically ranges from 95% to greater than 99%.