[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Preying from the Pulpit

ous month when it confirmed that there was no investigation of Hyles or the church.

Criticism of WJBK 
Hyles told his congregation that WJBK's news anchorman was fired and 12 sponsors had dropped the evening news, but Mort Meisner, news director for WJBK, said neither of those statements were true.

On May 19, 1993, The Times of Northwest Indiana ran a story entitled Baptism by innuendo, which criticized WJBK-TV's reporting. The Times wrote, "If one were to take the insinuations of Detroit television station WJBK-TV seriously, one could get the impression that the First Baptist Church of Hammond is a sex-crime factory and that its pastors school in Hammond and the affiliated Hyles Anderson College in Schererville are institutions where people minor in molestation."  The Times also suggested that the May ratings period, which is traditionally known for such similar sensationalized stories, was not a good enough excuse to make up for the poor journalism the stories displayed, concluding that the stories were "a monstrous overreach".  The Times went on to say: "There is no large institution of any kind where some wrongdoers cannot be found. First Baptist and its affiliated institutions are no exception. To tar an entire congregation or student body and alumni with indiscriminate innuendo is highly irresponsible."

Soon afterwards, Hyles gave a speech in which he disputed the latest reports point by point. 
During that speech, Hyles said that those that the report indicated had attended Hyles-Anderson College really had not even attended the school.  Several hundred people signed a statement supporting Hyles' in an advertisement placed in the Tuesday June 1, 1993 Chicago Sun-Times.

References

1993 in Christianity
1993 controversies in the United States
May 1993 events in the United States
Child sexual abuse scandals in Christianity
Religious scandals
Religious controversies in television
Sex crimes in the United States
Religious controversies in the United States