[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Aaron

tion records that the priestly descent came through Aaron's lineage, which included the entire House of Amran.

Baháʼí Faith
In the Baháʼí Faith, although his father is described as both an apostle and a prophet, Aaron is merely described as a prophet. The Kitáb-i-Íqán describes Imran as his father.

In art
Aaron appears paired with Moses frequently in Jewish and Christian art, especially in the illustrations of manuscript and printed Bibles. He can usually be distinguished by his priestly vestments, especially his turban or miter and jeweled breastplate. He frequently holds a censer or, sometimes, his flowering rod. Aaron also appears in scenes depicting the wilderness Tabernacle and its altar, as already in the third-century frescos in the synagogue at Dura-Europos in Syria. An eleventh-century portable silver altar from Fulda, Germany depicts Aaron with his censor, and is located in the Musée de Cluny in Paris. This is also how he appears in the frontispieces of early printed Passover Haggadot and occasionally in church sculptures. Aaron has rarely been the subject of portraits, such as those by Anton Kern [1710–1747] and by Pier Francesco Mola []. Christian artists sometimes portray Aaron as a prophet holding a scroll, as in a twelfth-century sculpture from the Cathedral of Noyon in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York and often in Eastern Orthodox icons. Illustrations of the Golden Calf story usually include him as well – most notably in Nicolas Poussin's The Adoration of the Golden Calf (–34, National Gallery, London). Finally, some artists interested in validating later priesthoods have painted the ordination of Aaron and his sons (Leviticus 8). Harry Anderson's realistic portrayal is often reproduced in the literature of the Latter Day Saints.

See also
 Harun
 Moses in rabbinic literature
 Y-chromosomal Aaron

Notes

Footnotes

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 
  which cites
 Numbers Rabbah 9
 Leviticus Rabbah 10
 Midrash Peṭirat Aharon in Jellinek's Bet ha-Midrash, 1:91–95
 Yalḳuṭ Numbers 764
 
 
 
 
 
 

References in the Qur'an
 Aaron's prophecy: , ,
 Aaron is made helper of Moses: , , , , 
 Aaron and Moses sent to Pharaoh: , , , 
 Praise for Aaron: , , , , , 
 The Golden Calf: ,

External links 
 
 
 
 
 English-Ingles.com - Etymology of Aaron
 MFnames.com - Origin and Meaning of Aaron
 "Aaron" at the Christian Iconography website

 
High Priests of Israel
Ancient Egyptian Jews
Book of Deuteronomy
Book of Exodus people
Christian saints from the Old Testament
Moses
15th-century BC clergy
People whose existence is disputed
Tribe of Levi
15th-century BC people