[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# StandWithUs

StandWithUs (SWU) (also known as Israel Emergency Alliance) is a nonprofit pro-Israel education and advocacy organization founded in Los Angeles in 2001 by Roz Rothstein, Jerry Rothstein, and Esther Renzer. 

StandWithUs has gained prominence as a leading pro-Israel advocacy group. It maintains a significant presence on university campuses throughout the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, South Africa, Australia and Brazil. The organization aims to combat what it perceives as antisemitism and misinformation related to Israel while promoting a positive image of the country. It trains students in pro-Israel advocacy, organizes protests, runs billboard and ad campaigns, and files complaints on the behalf of students. StandWithUs actively works to counter Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions (BDS) campaigns on campuses and beyond. It has also engaged in collaborations with the Israeli government on various initiatives. 

StandWithUs has faced controversy regarding its tactics and positions on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Critics have accused it of misinformation, pinkwashing, stifling dissent, and limiting constructive dialogue about Israel, particularly in university settings.

Founding and organization 
StandWithUs was founded in 2001 by Roz Rothstein, a family therapist in Los Angeles whose parents were Holocaust survivors, her husband Jerry Rothstein, and Esther Renzer. She has said the turning point for her came during the Second Intifada, when she observed what she perceived as distorted media portrayal of the conflict, specifically following the murders of Koby Mandell and Yosef Ishran. After meeting with dozens of local Jewish leaders, Rothstein concluded that there was no organization with the resources to "explain Israel" so she decided to create her own.

Rothstein remains SWU's executive director. Due to her leadership, she has twice been named one of the 50 most influential Jews in America by The Forward, and The Jerusalem Post named her one of the 50 most influential Jews in the world in 2016. In 2015, its board of directors included Naty Saidoff and Adam Milstein. The organization has a team of 80 lawyers who provide pro-bono legal services to students and faculty confronting antisemitism or "antisemitism disguised as anti-Zionism". Roberta P. Seid previously served as an education-research director.

SWU is a trade name or dba name of "Israel Emergency Alliance". According to Jewish Voice for Peace, Israel Emergency Alliance is an IRS-registered nonprofit and SWU and Creative Community for Peace are alternate names for this entity.

SWU is a member of the Israel on Campus Coalition. The Center for Combating Antisemitism is part of SWU. In 2020, SWU and the Israeli American Council (IAC) led a nonpartisan slate in the World Zionist Congress elections.

As of 2022, SWU has 18 offices across the U.S. and branches in Israel, France, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, South America, and South Africa.

Views 
While SWU is often categorized as right-wing, Rothstein rejects the label and asserts that the organization is nonpartisan. In terms of its position within a large range of American Jewish pro-Israeli movements, sociologist Dov Waxman says that SWU lies on the right end of the spectrum of American Jewish groups, with such groups as The David Project, the Zionist Organization of America, the Israel Project, and the Jewish Institute for National Security of America.

Rothstein says that SWU does not advocate specific policy positions and that its goal is merely to inform and "counter the vicious anti-Israel, anti-Semitic propaganda campaign" by educating the public about Israel. According to authors Cronin, Marusek and David Miller, SWU does not believe the West Bank is occupied and supports Israeli settlements. In an interview with Haaretz, Rothstein acknowledged having an emotional attachment to what she called "Judea and Samaria", because it is where the Jewish people began. She has said that Palestinian leaders have used the settlements as an excuse for "postponing negotiations and for rejecting all possible peace offers from Israel" and that ceding parts of the territory for a future Palestinian state would require "serious negotiations". SWU views the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as territorial rather than existential. Lessons by SWU have highlighted that Palestinian refugees "were not the result of Israel's founding but of the war Arab nations launched against Israel", a position Israeli historians contest.