[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 80]
# Politics — Aristotle

who are otherwise to the business and the
offices of the state. I mean, to oppose men of account to the common
people, the poor to the rich, and to blend both these into one body, and
to increase the numbers of those who are in the middle rank; and
this will prevent those seditions which arise from an inequality of
condition. But above all, in every state it is necessary, both by the
laws and every other method possible, to prevent those who are employed
by the public from being venal, and this particularly in an oligarchy;
for then the people will not be so much displeased from seeing
themselves excluded from a share in the government (nay, they will
rather be glad to have leisure to attend their private affairs) as at
suspecting that the officers of the state steal the public money, then
indeed they are afflicted with double concern, both because they are
deprived of the honours of the state, and pillaged by those who enjoy
them. There is one method of blending together a democracy and an
aristocracy, [1309a] if office brought no profit; by which means both
the rich and the poor will enjoy what they desire; for to admit all to
a share in the government is democratical; that the rich should be
in office is aristocratical. This must be done by letting no public
employment whatsoever be attended with any emolument; for the poor will
not desire to be in office when they can get nothing by it, but had
rather attend to their own affairs: but the rich will choose it, as
they want nothing of the community. Thus the poor will increase their
fortunes by being wholly employed in their own concerns; and the
principal part of the people will not be governed by the lower sort.
To prevent the exchequer from being defrauded, let all public money be
delivered out openly in the face of the whole city, and let copies of
the accounts be deposited in the different wards tribes, and divisions.
But, as the magistrates are to execute their offices without any
advantages, the law ought to provide proper honours for those who
execute them well. In democracies also it is necessary that the rich
should be protected, by not permitting their lands to be divided, nor
even the produce of them, which in some states is done unperceivably. It
would be also better if the people would prevent them when they offer to
exhibit a number of unnecessary and yet expensive public entertainments
of plays, music, processions, and the like. In an oligarchy it is
necessary to take great care of the poor, and allot them public
employments which are gainful; and, if any of the rich insult them, to
let their punishment be severer than if they insulted one of their own
rank; and to let estates pass by affinity, and not gift: nor to permit
any person to have more than one; for by this means property will be
more equally divided, and the greater part of the poor get into better
circumstances. It is also serviceable in a democracy and an oligarchy
to allot those who take no part in public affairs an equality or a
preference in other things; the rich in a democracy, to the poor in an
oligarchy: but still all the principal offices in the state to be filled
only by those who are best qualified to discharge them.




CHAPTER IX


There are three qualifications necessary for those who fill the
first departments in government; first of all, an affection for the
established constitution; second place, abilities every way completely
equal to the business of their office; in the third, virtue and justice
correspondent to the nature of that particular state they are placed in;
for if justice is not the same in all states, it is evident that there
must be different species thereof. There may be some doubt, when all
these qualifications do not in the same persons, in what manner the
choice shall be made; as for instance, suppose that one person is
an accomplished general, but a bad man and no friend to the [1309b]
constitution; another is just and a friend to it, which shall one
prefer? we should then consider of two qualities, which of them the
generality possess in a greater degree, which in a less; for which
reason in the choice of a general we should regard his courage more than
his virtue as the more uncommon quality; as there are fewer capable of
conducting an army than there are good men: but, to protect the state
or manage the finances, the contrary rule should be followed; for these
require greater virtue than the generality are possessed of, but only
that knowledge which is common to all. It may be asked, if a man has
abilities equal to his appointment in the state, and is affectionate to
the constitution, what occasion is there for being virtuous, since
these two things alone are sufficient to enable him to be useful to
the public? it is, because those who possess those qualities are often
deficient in prudence; for, as they often neglect their own affairs,
though they know them and l