[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nosson Tzvi Finkel (Mir)

urim too. Yet another beis medrash was built in recent years. The Mir also opened a yeshiva gedola for Israeli students in the Brachfeld neighborhood of Modi'in Illit where Finkel gave shiurim and occasional shmuessen (musar talks), and a yeshiva ketana in the Ramat Shlomo neighborhood of Jerusalem.

In an unusual move for a Litvish yeshiva, Finkel accepted 800 Hasidic students and allowed them to learn in their own chabura and follow their own customs, including a fartug (pre-dawn study session) before morning prayers. This group, known as Chaburas Ameilim BaTorah (the "Toiling in Torah" Study Group), was housed in a different neighborhood, but the week before his death, Finkel moved them onto Mir yeshiva premises. He participated in their Thursday-night study sessions as well as their seudot mitzvah (festival meals) marking a siyum, and Hanukkah parties.<ref name="hamodia">"Hagaon Harav Nosson Tzvi Finkel, zt"l: Leader of thousands, rebbi to each one". Hamodia, 10 November 2011, pp. A20, A26.</ref>

Notwithstanding the Mir's huge enrollment, Finkel tried to remember the name of each student. He also remembered personal details about each of his alumni and donors abroad. His brother-in-law, Rabbi Aharon Lopiansky, rosh yeshiva of the Yeshiva of Greater Washington, said that at Mir dinners, 1,000 people could be waiting to speak with the rosh yeshiva, "and almost every single one on the line was someone he had had a personal connection with".

Despite his busy schedule, Finkel also expressed a willingness to learn in chavruta with any student who asked. It was estimated that he studied with approximately 80 people every week. Like his great-uncle Reb Leizer Yudel, Finkel offered cash incentives for Torah study, challenging his students to learn many pages of Talmud and study for large blocks of time. He regularly hosted siyums for students in his own home and at his own expense.

Finkel shouldered the responsibility for raising funds for this giant Torah enterprise. Despite his disease and its side effects, he traveled twice a year to England and the United States. In the past two years, the economic recession saw the yeshiva's debts mounting quicker than they were being met, with salaries and kollel stipends running months behind. Finkel was said to be very upset by this state of affairs.

Illness
Reb Finkel was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in the late 1980s. Though he experienced much difficulty in walking and talking, and suffered from involuntary tremors and spasms and slurred speech, he continued to learn for hours every day and gave regular shiurim in the yeshiva, as well as embarked on regular fund-raising trips abroad. In later years, when he felt too weak to sit in a chair during the chaburas'' (small-group learning sessions) that he organized for students in his home, he would lie down on a couch and encourage the students to begin the session. He refused to take medication for his condition, since the drugs could make his mind foggy or cause memory loss and he didn't want to risk forgetting his Torah studies. He only took medication that provided temporary relief from his symptoms.

Death
At 6 a.m. in his home on November 8, 2011 (11 Cheshvan 5772), Finkel suddenly lost consciousness. EMS personnel attempted to revive him for 50 minutes while students of the Mir stood outside in the street praying for him. His personal doctor summoned to the home determined that he had died of cardiac arrest.

An estimated 100,000 people attended his funeral, which began at the Mir yeshiva in Beit Yisrael and continued on foot to Har HaMenuchot, where he was buried next to Rabbi Chaim Shmuelevitz, a former rosh yeshiva of the Mir, and close by the graves of Reb Leizer Yudel and Rabbi Binyomin Beinish Finkel. The Edah HaChareidis ordered all Haredi businesses to close during the funeral, and Litvishe Torah leaders Rabbi Yosef Shalom Eliashiv and Aharon Leib Shteinman instructed teachers and students of Talmud Torahs, yeshivas, and kollels to join the funeral procession. The procession was so large that it blocked the entrance to the city and halted operations of the Jerusalem Light Rail, as tens of thousands of mourners crossed the tracks of the Jerusalem Chords Bridge en route to the cemetery.

Rav Finkel's death was a double blow for the Jerusalem Litvish yeshiva world, coming one day after the death of Rabbi Dov Schwartzman, another respected Litvish rosh yeshiva in Jerusalem. Rabbi Finkel participated in Rabbi Schwartzman's funeral on 7 November.

At the funeral it was announced that Finkel's eldest son, Rabbi Eliezer Yehuda Finkel, would succeed his father as rosh yeshiva.

References

External links
" Videos, Photos: Rav Nosson Tzvi Finkel Arrives in the US, Speaks in Lakewood" (February 2010)
"Blanket of Trust" by Howard Schultz, Chairman of Starbucks
shiurim by Rabbi Nosson Tzvi Finkel