[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Andrew Little (New Zealand politician)

elligence Service, Treaty of Waitangi Negotiations, and Pike River Re-entry. He was additionally appointed Lead Coordination Minister for the Government's Response to the Royal Commission's Report into the Terrorist Attack on the Christchurch Mosques after that report was published in December 2020.

On 20 July 2021, Little, in his capacity as  Minister in charge of the Government Communications Security Bureau, confirmed that the spy agency had established links between Chinese state-sponsored actors known as "Advanced Persistent Threat 40" (APT40) and malicious cyber activity in New Zealand. In addition, Little confirmed that New Zealand was joining other Western governments including the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and the European Union in condemning the Chinese Ministry of State Security and other Chinese state-sponsored actors for their involvement in the 2021 Microsoft Exchange Server data breach. In response, the Chinese Embassy in New Zealand rejected the New Zealand Government's claims, claiming that China was a staunch defender of cybersecurity and firmly opposed all forms of cyber attacks and crimes.

In mid-June 2022, Little in his capacity as Health Minister acknowledged that the country's health system was under strain due to a manpower shortage and the effects of COVID-19 and the seasonal flu on hospitals and health clinics. However, he denied that health services were facing a crisis. In response, the National Party's health spokesperson Shane Reti accused Little of denying that New Zealand's healthcare system was facing a crisis. Little's remarks were criticised by various unidentified health workers, who reported that significant staff shortages and hospital demand in response to COVID-19 and the seasonal flu were straining hospital resources. In early July 2022, the Association of General Surgeons issued an open letter to Little stating that the staffing shortage was undermining the ability of doctors to deliver care to patients.

In late October 2022, Little in his capacity as Minister of Treaty of Waitangi negotiations apologised to the Taranaki–based Māori iwi (tribe) Ngāti Maru on behalf of the New Zealand Crown for land confiscations that occurred following the New Zealand Wars. Though the tribe had not taken part in the fighting, most of their land had been confiscated by the Crown.

During a cabinet shuffle that occurred on 31 January 2023, Little was succeeded as Health Minister by Ayesha Verrall. Little also replaced Peeni Henare as Minister of Defence. Prime Minister Chris Hipkins, who succeeded Jacinda Ardern earlier in the month, stated that Little had supported "any decision made about the portfolio" and added that he had full confidence in Little. Little also retained his ministerial portfolios for the GCSB, NZSIS, Public Service, Treaty of Waitangi negotiations and  Lead Coordination Minister for the Government's Response to the Royal Commission's Report into the Terrorist Attack on the Christchurch Mosques.

On 21 June 2023, following the resignation of Michael Wood from cabinet, Little gained the Immigration portfolio.

Retirement from Parliament 
Following Labour's loss in the , Little chose not to take his list seat and retired from politics altogether.

Personal life
Little currently lives in Island Bay, Wellington with his wife Leigh and their son.

He was diagnosed with early-stage prostate cancer in 2009; but after receiving treatment, he was given a clean bill of health. He has subsequently had annual check-ups.

See also
Shadow Cabinet of Andrew Little
Politics of New Zealand

References

External links

Profile on the Labour Party website

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1965 births
21st-century New Zealand politicians
Candidates in the 2011 New Zealand general election
Candidates in the 2014 New Zealand general election
Candidates in the 2017 New Zealand general election
Leaders of the Opposition (New Zealand)
Living people
Members of the New Zealand House of Representatives
New Zealand Labour Party leaders
New Zealand Labour Party MPs
New Zealand list MPs
New Zealand trade unionists
People educated at New Plymouth Boys' High School
People from New Plymouth
Victoria University of Wellington alumni
Victoria University of Wellington Students' Association presidents
Members of the Cabinet of New Zealand
20th-century New Zealand lawyers
Candidates in the 2020 New Zealand general election
Justice ministers of New Zealand
Candidates in the 2023 New Zealand general election