[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rue de la Loi

mbolic identity" with high environmental and architectural standards. Furthermore, they aimed to diversify the area by bringing in more housing, cultural and leisure areas while simultaneously increasing the area occupied by the Commission from   to  – doubling the building density along the street.

In March 2009, a French-Belgian-British team led by the French architect Christian de Portzamparc won the competition, and European Commissioner for Administrative Affairs, Audit and Anti-Fraud, Siim Kallas, stated that the project, which would be put into action gradually rather than all at once, would create a "symbolic area for the EU institutions" giving "body and soul to the European political project" and providing the Commission with extra office space. The road would be reduced from four lanes to two, and be returned to two-way traffic (rather than all west-bound) and the architects proposed a tram line to run down the centre. A series of high-rise buildings would be built on either side with three 'flagship' skyscrapers at the east end on the north side. Then Brussels Minister-President, Charles Picqué, described the towers as "iconic buildings that will be among the highest in Brussels" and that "building higher allows you to turn closed blocks into open spaces." The tallest towers at the eastern end would be subject to a separate architectural competition and would be symbolic of the Commission. The freed-up space (some ) would be given over to housing, shops, services and open spaces to give the area a more "human" feel. A sixth European School may also be built. On the western edge of the quarter, on the Small Ring, there would be "gates to Europe" to add visual impact.

The general quarter master plan saw not only the road being reduced from four lanes to two, but the tunnel's entrance being covered as far as the Résidence Palace, as well as the construction of a new square between the / and the /.

See also

 List of streets in Brussels
 Rue Belliard/Belliardstraat, a street running parallel to the Rue de la Loi
 History of Brussels
 Belgium in "the long nineteenth century"

References

Footnotes

Notes

External links

 European Commission
 Council of the European Union
 Federal Parliament of Belgium
 Pictures of Rue de la Loi

Loirue
City of Brussels
European quarter of Brussels