[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fourierism

nities replicating and spreading from localities to regions to nations and internationally. Never in his writings does Fourier appeal to governmental legislation or coercive power of any sort, instead believing association to be a natural and wholly voluntary structure, part of a Divine Social Code.

Moreover, the achievement on an international scale would eliminate war. Instead, industrial armies would form to engage in gigantic reclamation projects, irrigating deserts, restoring vegetation, draining marshes and cultivating the land. The elimination of disease would follow, as such banes as cholera, typhus, and yellow fever would vanish with the unhealthful places whence they originated before society's restorative efforts. Through the planting of vast swaths of timber, cropland would be protected and the earth's climate would be slowly transformed, Fourier believed.

Fantastic theories

Fourier's theoretical system, described by one scholar as "vast and eccentric", was only part of the output of what another called "a most riotous and unpruned imagination". Fourier believed that in the new world people would live for 144 years, that new species of friendly and pacifistic animals such as "anti-lions" would emerge, and that over time human beings would develop long and useful tails. Fourier also professed a belief in the ability of human souls to migrate between physical and "aromal" worlds. Such thinking was set aside during the last 15 years of Fourier's life, when he instead began to concentrate on testing his economic and social ideas.

Fourier's disciples, including Albert Brisbane and Victor Considerant, later pared down his writings into a comprehensible system for economic and social organization, with the Fourierist movement experiencing a brief boom in the United States during the mid-1840s, when some 30 Fourierist associations were established.

Influence on new religious movements 
The Fourierist doctrine of attractions, correspondences, and analogies was identified with esoteric doctrines like Martinism by Fourierists like Just Muiron from an early point on. Louis Reybaud, the author of the first study of the socialists, perceived Fourierism and other early socialist schools in the context of mysticism, magic, kabbalah, or the occult sciences. Fourierism exerted a decisive influence on new religious movements like Spiritualism and Occultism after 1848. Before that, Fourierism had already coined the ideas of US-American spiritualist thinkers such as Andrew Jackson Davis. Eliphas Lévi, who is regarded as the founder of modern occultism, was an adherent of Fourierism in the 1840s. Until the early 20th century, there was a strong Fourierist presence in French socialist-spiritualist circles.

See also

 List of Fourierist Associations in the United States
 Albert Brisbane
 The Phalanx/The Harbinger, an American Fourierist newspaper of the 1840s.
 American Union of Associationists
 South Bay Phalanx
 Kibbutz
W. E. Smythe
Utopian socialism

References
Notes

Bibliography
In French

 Oeuvres complètes de Charles Fourier (Complete Works of Charles Fourier). In 12 volumes. Paris: Anthropos, 1966–1968.

Individual works in English

 The Hierarchies of Cuckoldry and Bankruptcy. Cambridge, MA: Wakefield Press, 2011.
 The Passions of the Human Soul and their Influence on Society and Civilization. New York: Augustus M. Kelley, 1968.
 The Theory of the Four Movements. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1996.
 Theory of Social Organization. New York: C.P. Somerby, 1876.

Collections

 Jonathan Beecher and Richard Bienvenu (eds.), The Utopian vision of Charles Fourier: Selected Texts on Work, Love, and Passionate Attraction. Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 1971.
 Julia Franklin (ed.), Selections from the Works of Fourier. London: Swan Sonnenschein & Co., 1901.
 Mark Poster (ed.), Harmonian Man: Selected Writings of Charles Fourier. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1971.
 Design for Utopia: Selected Writings of Charles Fourier. New York: Schocken Books, 1971.

Further reading