[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Wilfrid Israel

ldren in Vichy France.

Personal life 
Wilfrid Israel was a homosexual but this tendency was repressed and hidden, and as such was also referred to in two books by Christopher Isherwood - Goodbye to Berlin (1939) and Christopher and His Kind published in 1976. Both books were later adapted to films.

Death and commemoration
On 26 March 1943, Israel left London for Lisbon, Portugal and spent the next two months distributing certificates of entry to British-ruled Palestine, and investigating the situation of Jews on the peninsula; during World War II the right-wing governments in Spain and Portugal had some sympathies with Nazi Germany but refused to hand over Jews to the Germans. Before Israel left the peninsula, he had also formulated a plan to rescue Jewish children from Vichy France – an enterprise partially carried out after his death. Israel was killed, aged 43, on 1 June 1943 when British Overseas Airways Corporation Flight 777 was shot down over the Bay of Biscay by eight German Junkers Ju 88s.

A major memorial honouring Wilfrid Israel, and to all Jews who chose to risk their lives to save Jews during the Holocaust, is being fabricated.  The 14' memorial, designed by noted Jerusalem sculptor Sam Philipe, is funded by the Jewish American Society for Historic Preservation. The memorial is anticipated to be completed and dedicated October 2023.

Tribute letter from Albert Einstein 

Princetown, N.J. VI. 14. '43.

Dear Mrs. Israel,
A deep desire prompts me to write to you as I know your great anxiety regarding the fate of your son.  Never in my life have I come in contact with a being so noble, so strong and as selfless as he was – in very truth a living work of art.

In these times of mass-misfortune, which so few are able to stand up to – one feels the presence of this "chosen one" as a Liberator from despair for mankind.

I dare yet to hope that through a miracle he has been spared to us.  Yet it urges me, though so helpless, to assure you of my deepest sympathy in these most tragic hours.

With heartfelt wishes, A. Einstein

Wilfrid Israel Museum

 
The Wilfrid Israel Museum in Kibbutz HaZore'a, Israel, is an archaeology and art museum dedicated to the memory of Wilfrid Israel. The museum, which opened in 1951, houses Wilfrid's unique collection, to which many artefacts have been added over the years. The museum displays have permanent exhibitions of the art of India, China, Thailand, Cambodia, the art of ancient Near East, and local archaeology. In addition, the museum holds changing exhibitions of modern painting, sculpture, photography, and textiles. It offers a wide range of community educational programs for children, youth and adults, including guided tours of the museum's permanent and temporary exhibitions as well as creative hands-on activities in the museum's art workshop.

In August 2020, burglars stole around 30 artefacts from the museum.

Wilfrid Israel film

A film by award-winning filmmaker Yonatan Nir and producer  premiered in Israel on 1 November 2016. The film, The Essential Link: The Story of Wilfrid Israel, is inspired by the biography written by Naomi Shepherd. It tells the story of Wilfrid Israel's life-saving activities, his connections with the founders of Kibbutz HaZore'a and mostly focuses on the last ten years of his life. The film's website "The Essential Link: The Story of Wilfrid Israel" provides more information about the person and the film and includes a link to its trailer.

References

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 Published as Wilfrid Israel, German Jewry's Secret Ambassador by Weidenfeld and Nicolson, London, in 1984; in German translation by Siedler Verlag, Munich; and in Hebrew as "שגריר ללא ארץ", the Bialik Institute in 1989. This biography won the Wingate Prize for the best book on Jewish subjects for 1984

Further reading 
 Ian Colvin (1957), Flight 777 (Evans Brothers)
 Dessa, A Tribute to Kaufhaus N. Israel 1815–1939, Switzerland: Deborah Petroz-Abeles, 2003

External links

1899 births
1943 deaths
German civilians killed in World War II
20th-century German Jews
20th-century German businesspeople
Kindertransport
Victims of aviation accidents or incidents in international waters
Victims of aircraft shootdowns
German LGBT businesspeople
LGBT Jews
20th-century German LGBT people
Alumni of Lyceum Alpinum Zuoz