[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Regional seat of government

none were prosecuted.

Sub-regions 
Below the RSGs would be another series of bunkers called Sub-Regional Controls, with several per civil defence region. By 1962 the Home Office wanted 29 of these, a costly increase from the 19 originally planned. Use of the following extant buildings was proposed:

Region 2 (North East) – SRC 2.2 would be a former anti-aircraft control bunker at Conisborough near Doncaster
Region 3 (North Midlands) – 3.1 would be another former anti-aircraft bunker at Elvaston near Derby. 3.2 would be a former ROTOR bunker at Skendleby, in a remote area of rural Lincolnshire
Region 4 (Eastern) – 4.2 a new SRC built under Sovereign House, a government office block in Hertford
Region 5 (London) – the London region had several SRCs, including 5.2 at Kelvedon Hatch in Essex, a deeply buried former ROTOR bunker, 5.2 at Fort Bridgewood, Chatham, and 5.5, at Stoughton Barracks, Guildford
Region 6 (Southern) – the Warren Row bunker would have become an SRC if the new RSG had been built as planned. The other SRC was in the basement of the civil service commission headquarters at Basingstoke.
Region 7 (South West) – SRC 7.1 was planned to use the former Wiltshire Police HQ at Devizes
Region 8 (Wales) – SRC 8.1 was in a former ammunition store at Brackla Hill near Bridgend. Home Office planners wanted three civil defence regions in Wales rather than the original two, so 8.3 was planned to be at St Twynnels, another former ROTOR bunker.
Region 9 (West Midlands) – 9.1 was in another former ammunition store at Swynnerton, and 9.2 at Norton Barracks, Worcester
Region 10 – 10.1 was in the basement of government buildings at Southport

Outcome 
Plans on this scale proved over-ambitious, and some of these SRCs (Devizes, Elvaston, Worcester) never had protected accommodation built. Soon after becoming prime minister in 1964, Harold Wilson vetoed the building the new RSGs which the Home Office wanted and for which detailed estimates existed. By this time, the structure of civil defence was changing again, as the government realised that a more flexible system of protected sub-regional controls was needed in order to revive a link between central government and local authorities who would bear the brunt of post-attack planning. Regional seats of government would not now be hardened structures and would be established as soon as possible after attack, under prearranged plans at locations that would be selected in the light of circumstances.

More ex-ROTOR stations were pressed into service, and existing RSGs and SRCs were combined to form a new network. A handful of reinforced basements were built under government office blocks to serve as SRCs. However, financial constraints meant that this plan was never fully carried out and the complete network of SRCs was never built.

After the Civil Defence Corps

By the time that the Civil Defence Corps was run down in 1968, following another economic crisis, the network was as follows:

 Region 1 (Northern)
Hexham in the Border Country, using a former hardened cold store from the Second World War rather than the purpose-built structure the Home Office originally wanted
 Region 2 (North East)
Bempton, a former ROTOR bunker on the Yorkshire coast
 Conisbrough near Doncaster, a former anti-aircraft operations bunker
 Region 3 (North Midlands)
Skendleby
 Loughborough, a former hardened cold store
 Region 4 (Eastern)
Bawburgh outside Norwich, a former ROTOR bunker
 Hertford
 Region 5 (London)
Kelvedon Hatch, near Brentwood in Essex, a deeply buried former ROTOR bunker
 Region 6 (Southern)
Basingstoke, a protected basement built under the HQ of the Civil Service Commission
 Dover Castle (protected accommodation dated back to the Napoleonic Wars, but a large citadel was built here for naval operations during the Second World War)
 Stoughton Barracks, Guildford
 Region 7 (South West)
 The Bolt Head/Hope Cove RSG near Salcombe, Devon
 Ullenwood, a former anti-aircraft control on a hilltop site near Cheltenham Spa
 Region 8 (Wales)
 A former ammunitions storage bunker at Brackla Hill, Bridgend
 Sites for a North Wales SRC were considered at Llandudno Junction as well as a protected basement under Government buildings at Ruthin, but neither came to fruition
 Region 9 (West Midlands)
 The Drakelow RSG and the former SRC at Swynnerton, Staffordshire
 Region 10 (North West)
 There was little existing protected accommodation in the northwest and so a new SRC was built under a technical college at Southport
 Region 11 (Northern Ireland)
 Regional War Room, Mount Eden Park, Belfast