[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ahmed Shaheed

Ahmed Shaheed (, born January 27, 1964) is a Maldivian diplomat, politician and professor. On 24 March 2016, he was appointed for the sixth year running as the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the human rights situation in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Shaheed is also the Chairperson of the Geneva-based international human rights think-tank, Universal Rights Group, which was launched in January 2014. He now lives in England, as Visiting Professor of Human Rights Practice at the University of Essex.

Prior to his appointment as a UN envoy with the rank of Assistant Secretary General, he was a Maldivian politician and human rights defender. He served as Maldivian Minister of Foreign Affairs from November 2008 to December 2010; previously, he had served as Minister of Foreign Affairs for two years, from 14 July 2005 until August 20, 2007.

In March 2014, while he was United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran, the Islamic Republic of Iran refused him entry to the country and declared him to be an agent of both the CIA and Israel.

On 13 June 2016, Shaheed was nominated by the Consultative Group of Ambassadors comprising Albania, Brazil, Egypt, France and Thailand, as the most suitable candidate to be appointed by the President of the Human Rights Council for the post of United Nations Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief, to succeed Professor Heiner Bielefeldt of Germany.

Political and diplomatic career
A career diplomat since 1982, Shaheed served as the Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Maldives from 1998 to 2004. As Permanent Secretary of Maldives, he actively lobbied to widen and deepen regional cooperation within South Asia, incorporating discussions on human rights, regional peace, and free trade into the agenda of the South Asian Association of Regional Cooperation, including the pursuit of a South Asian Social Charter. Before his appointment as Permanent Secretary, he had served from 1997 to 1998 as a member of the Group of South Asian Eminent Persons, appointed by the Heads of State of the South Asian region. At the national level, in 2003, Shaheed also secured political approval for the creation of Maldives National Human Rights Commission, which was established in November 2003, and for accession to the UN Convention against Torture, as part of the human rights-related reforms the government embarked on in late 2003.

At the end of 2003, Shaheed retired from the diplomatic service and took up a position in the President's Office mandated to formulate and coordinate political and human rights reform and government communications following outbreaks of civil unrest in the capital and nearby areas.

In July 2005, Shaheed used his position as Government Spokesperson to reject the condemnation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the Chief Justice of the Maldives. The Opposition MDP accused him of being the chief "spin doctor" for President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom while independent human rights NGOs such as Hama Jamiyya hail him as a champion of human rights.

He is one of the co-founders of New Maldives, a group within the former regime that spearheaded the drive to make the Maldives a modern liberal democracy. With his cabinet colleague Hassan Saeed, Shaheed is the author of the Roadmap for Reform, unveiled on 27 March 2006, identifying a raft of political and legal reforms with specific timeframes. Shaheed is also the founder of the Open Society Association dedicated to the promotion of human rights, tolerance, and democracy.

Although a very high-profile sponsor of the DRP, he was defeated in his bid to win the Vice Presidency of the Party in April 2006.

After resigning from the Cabinet, Shaheed and Saeed claimed to have faced intimidation and harassment as they actively lobbied against the regime, including by contesting in the presidential elections, with duo missing on the run-off by finishing third in the first round of elections. Their campaigning against the Gayoom regime was instrumental in forcing a free and fair election. Shaheed offered "unconditional support" for the candidature of the opposition candidate, Mohamed Nasheed, in the run-off, and was appointed as his Foreign Minister when the latter won the presidency in October 2008.