[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of South African slang words

Mielie-meal, which is the flour of choice to make Pap (also called mieliepap), a popular type of porridge.
 mmchakawally – cigarettes
 moegoe – stupid person, coward, or weakling
 moffie – male homosexual (derogatory). Can be compared to "fairy". From "mofskaap", castrated sheep.
 moer – to hit / to fight with, for example: "he is gonna moer you" Also a word for a nut used with a bolt
 moerkoffie – is a strong blend of ground-coffee usually served with minimal milk in a tin-based mug.
 moer-meter – comically describes a person's temperament for their tolerance of bullshit. Derived from the red thermometer and used as a metaphor as illustrated by Donald Duck when he gets mad. Used in conjunction with "bloediglik vererg".
 moerse –  a very strong word for big, for example: "that's a moerse house"
 moer strip – a point in time when a person's patience has worn so thin, he could snap violently at any moment. Derived from a nut (moer) that strips its threads when excessive force is applied.
 moer-toe – stuffed up or destroyed (my car is moer-toe)
 mompie – retard ("Liesl, you are such a mompie!")
 mooi, man! – "well done, man", used as an expression of appreciation in another person's achievement.
 Moola – lit. "money". Is the English slang term for money as well as the name of the actual mobile-currency used in the now defunct Mxit.
 morne – boring, sterile, unexciting ("This is more morne than watching Saracens play!")
 mos – Afrikaans, implies that what has been said is well known or self-evident (a formal part of grammar, the closest English equivalent would be "duh!"). "Ek drink mos tee." ("I drink tea, duh!"). Used at the end of a sentence, as in "...Jy weet mos." ("...Obviously, as you know.")
 mossie-poep – lit. "sparrow-fart" based on the definition of "poep-ruik" (oversleeping in the morning), it refers to a very early "waking up time" in the morning, often more specifically before 6:00AM (before sparrows wake up, but after the cock's crow)
 muggie – bug, especially a little flying gnat
 mugwaai – cigarette
 "mung" – the term mung means to lose a life playing video games and it also represents Pallsmoor jail, you gonna go to the"mung" when you stolen something and you get caught by police. 
 mxit taal – lit. "mix it language". Refers to the text-based grammar usage that was popularized by the now-defunct Mxit, a free instant messaging service. For example: Eng: How R U? Afrikaans: Hoe ganit? (Hoe gaan dit?); Eng: I'm gr8 (I'm great).

N–Z 
 naai (Afrikaans) – copulate; but strictly speaking "sew", from the action of a sewing machine needle.
 nè? – do you know what I mean/agree?, oh really?, is it not so? or British English "innit?". Similar to the French "n'est-ce pas" and the Portuguese "né?", meaning "Isn't it?", e.g. "Jy hou van tee, nè?" ("You like tea, not so?") (informal). The South African English equivalent is "hey", for example "Eish, its cold hey?".
 neuk – lit. "to hit", less vulgar than "moer", "donner" and "bliksem"
 negentien-voetsek – "nineteen-voetsek" (Commonly pronounced "neëntien"; "nie'an teen"), refers to a date in the early 20th century, with "voetsek" (go far away) referring to a very early date. Translation: a very long time ago, often used when the specific date isn't known.
 nogal – of all things. Term expressing a measure of surprise.
 nooit – lit. "never."  No way, unbelievable!
 nou – lit. "Immediately/now". Also means "narrow".
 nou-net – lit. "just now". Refers to an event that happened within a few minutes ago.
 nou-nou/now now – contrary to the original meaning of the English word "now", it means "in due time", and therefore can mean anything from "in the next five minutes" to "in the next five years".
 net-nou – lit. "just now."  Can refers to an event that happened a while ago, maybe within 12hrs ("I saw him just now").  Or some time in the future ("I'm coming just now"), which could mean anything from 5 minutes to 5 years, or never.  
 net-net – lit. "just just". Refers to something/someone that has either impeccable timing and/or is just shy from, and just far enough to, winning any competitive event. English equivalents are: "Just in the nick of time", "just shy of winning", "almost". For example: Ek het my eksamen vraestel net-net deur gekom (I just barely passed my exam).
 Nou gaan ons Braai! – lit. "Now we're gonna Braai!". Pokes fun at the procrastination of the braaier, who intends to start immediately, but doesn't start till much much later.
 O Griet! – lit. "Oh Gosh!". A catchphrase uttered by the beloved witch Liewe Heksie when calling out her magic horse, Griet, whom she's able to conjure-up with the phrase, though she never remembers his name and as a result she only ever summons him by accident whenever she's in panic. The popularity of the catchphrase ensured that it gained use via the general public and therefore is used by a person whenever their in a state of panic.
 O gonna Madonna – ("g" sound pronounced in the back of the throat) Derived from "O G