[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895)

by the Japanese and by foreign observers, that resistance to the Japanese occupation of Taiwan would now evaporate.  The American war correspondent James W. Davidson commented:

At 2 a.m. on 5 June the yellow Republican Tiger gathered in his long tail and laid down and died for lack of nourishment.

Hopes for an early end to the war proved to be premature.  By the end of June it was clear that all the island's main towns would have to be occupied forcibly before opposition to the Japanese invasion collapsed.  Popular resistance to the Japanese invasion gradually grew, slowing the pace of their advance south from Taipei, and on 26 June the presidency of the Formosan Republic was assumed by Liu Yongfu in Tainan.  This gesture, which effectively transferred the republican capital from Taipei to Tainan, prolonged the Republic's life for another five months.

Phase Two: Hsinchu, Miaoli and Changhua
The capture of Tainan now became a political as well as a strategic imperative for the Japanese.  However, this proved to be easier said than done.  Faced with growing resistance to their occupation, the Japanese were unable to advance immediately on Tainan.  During the second phase of the campaign, from June to August, the Japanese secured central Taiwan by occupying Miaoli and Changhua.  They then paused for a month, and only embarked on the third and final phase of the campaign, the advance on Tainan, in October.

Japanese capture of Hsinchu 
On 11 June the Imperial Guards Division left Taipei and began to advance south.  Its immediate objectives were Tokoham and Hsinchu.  The Japanese captured Hsinchu with little trouble on 22 June.  The Chinese troops of the Hsinchu garrison removed their uniforms and handed over their weapons to the Japanese as soon as they entered the city.

Formosan militia operations around Hsinchu 
So far, the Japanese had been fighting Qing regular troops, most of whom wanted merely to leave the alien soil of Taiwan and return to mainland China as soon as possible.  They had little stomach for fighting the Japanese, and made no attempt to defeat them when they did fight. James Davidson, who had seen their qualities for himself at Keelung, Taipei, Tamsui and Hsinchu, was scathing in his criticism of their performance:
The Chinese troops equipped with good weapons or bad, without drill, and unskilled in foreign tactics, protected by magnificent forts with big modern guns, or behind mudwalls with jingals, conducted themselves always with scarcely a redeeming feature.  Their forces never advanced to make an attack unless they were confident that their position permitted of an easy retreat and that they greatly outnumbered their opponents.  I know of hardly a single instance where, in the clearing, they have held their own against an approaching force, under anywhere near equal conditions.  It is a usual manoeuvre for the Chinese to draw themselves up in mighty splendour on some open plot of ground in full view of the enemy, and should the latter advance towards them, to commence to fire off every available firearm, although they may be entirely out of range.  This continues until the enemy has advanced sufficiently near to make his bullets felt in the Chinese ranks, and then there is a scatter and a scramble for a safer position, where their forces rally again to repeat the same tactics as before.

After the fall of Hsinchu, however, locally recruited Formosan troops began to take the lead in the fighting against the Japanese.  In particular, Hakka militia units led by the youthful commanders ,  and  put up a stubborn resistance to the Japanese advance.  Between 24 and 26 June the Japanese had to turn back to An-ping-chin and fight a major engagement to capture the heights of the .  The Japanese, with superior training and better weapons, eventually succeeded in throwing the Formosans off the mountain.  But although defeated, the Formosans remained for several days in the vicinity of Hsinchu, demonstrating on more than one occasion against the city.

On 10 July the Japanese again confronted the Hakka militias, this time on the heights of Jianbishan near Miaoli.  The Formosans were entrenched, but had no modern artillery.  The Japanese attacked from two sides and defeated them.  Japanese casualties were only 11 killed or wounded, while the bodies of 200 dead Formosans were recovered from the battlefield.  The Japanese also took 110 prisoners, one of whom was the 19-year-old militia leader Jiang Shaoxu.  On 11 July, Jiang committed suicide by eating raw opium. Wu Tangxing thereupon assumed command of the Hakka militias, and on 23 July led them back in retreat to Miaoli.