[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Peter Baker (British politician)

e of plea, for extension of time, to call new witnesses and to produce new evidence, with the Lord Chief Justice Lord Goddard pointing out that his plea of guilty must stand. Immediately after this appeal was dismissed, Baker was transferred from Wormwood Scrubs to HM Prison Leyhill, an open prison.

From there Baker sent a request to the Speaker of the House of Commons asking that his case be referred to the Committee of Privileges, to inquire into why he pleaded guilty and to allegations of perjury and withholding of evidence. He claimed to have received "more than seventy letters of encouragement" when his request was publicised. His attempts to circumvent restrictions on letters from prison were detected and resulted in his transfer back to closed conditions, first at Horfield and then back to Wormwood Scrubs.

Release
Baker was released from Wormwood Scrubs on 23 October 1959, being met at the prison gates by his father and by Lord Pakenham. Shortly after his release he gave an interview to the Daily Express, in which he declared his intention to bring back his wife and children from Australia, where they had moved without warning in the summer of 1958, leaving no address but arranging for letters to be forwarded through a bank.

On 4 November, Baker called a press conference on "the weaknesses of justice and prison administration in Britain", which he explained as an apology for hiding from the press, and an attempt to prove that this was not from fear.

Later life
Baker's creditors received only 0.1611d. in the £ (or 0.067%), in the first dividend paid after his bankruptcy; when he applied for discharge from bankruptcy on 17 December 1959, the discharge was suspended. In April 1962, his discharge from bankruptcy was allowed after a two years and six months suspension. A supplemental dividend was paid to creditors in May 1963 of 0.196d. in the £ (or 0.08%), making less than 0.15% in total.

In February 1960, Baker asked Robert Maxwell for an appointment as a Director of his new publishing company; Maxwell refused. He wrote his prison memoirs, published under the title Time Out of Life by Heinemann in 1961; in them Baker claimed his financial downfall was caused by his financial guarantors repudiating their signatures, and that he had always believed them to be genuine. He could not explain why he had pleaded guilty. The book included a foreword from Pakenham, by then the Earl of Longford, who praised it as a "valuable contribution" to understanding the prison system.

In March 1961, he was cleared of causing death by dangerous driving, having knocked down a pedestrian on a crossing in the Strand; Baker said that he overtook a taxi whose driver had signalled to him that it was safe to do so. He was divorced from his wife in November 1961, on grounds of her desertion.

Attempts to overturn his conviction or to hold an inquiry continued. In September 1963, Baker persuaded Earl Attlee, the former Labour Prime Minister, to support an inquiry. Baker unsuccessfully petitioned for a Royal Pardon in 1965. On 4 April 1966, his creditors filed a new bankruptcy petition against him; a receiving order was made on 22 July 1966, and on 26 September, he was again adjudicated a bankrupt. He died in hospital in Eastbourne on 14 November 1966, aged 45.

Literary depiction

Baker is depicted as Martin York in Muriel Spark's novel A Far Cry from Kensington. York, like Baker, is sentenced to seven years' imprisonment "for multiple forgeries and other types of fraud"; the date of his imprisonment is also 1 December 1954. In the novel, Nancy Hawkins (based on Spark) describes how Martin York frequently makes promises to publish books written by his friends, but the books they write are not always acceptable, and she turns down one manuscript from a friend of York's who had been offered a contract during a drinking session. York relays to Hawkins advice to send a cheque for a random amount in income tax, so that it cannot be tallied with any amount owing and results in the taxpayers' file being passed around and eventually lost. She describes seeing York signing documents in his own handwriting but in other people's names. York remarks to Hawkins that "if it is widely enough believed that you have money and wealth, it is the same thing as having it. The belief itself creates confidence and confidence, business."

Works
The Beggar's Lute (set of twenty-one poems), Favil Press, 1940
Confession of Faith, Falcon Press, 1946
The Silent Revolution, Falcon Press, 1946
Land and Empire, Falcon Press, 1948
My Testament, John Calder, London, 1955
Time Out of Life, Heinemann, London, 1961

Notes

See also

References

External links 
 
 The Peerage.com: Peter Arthur David Baker 
 Diss Community Partnership: Hero and Shyster The Fallen MP