[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sebastian Doggart

ted and directed. He was also producer and dramaturg for The Moon Comes Out, Federico, a collaboration between Northern Stage and the Seville-based company Octubre Danza, which fused story-telling, contemporary dance and live cante jondo to enact Lorca's long poem "Lament to Ignacio Sanchez Mejias".

In 2000, Doggart co-founded the Gaia Arts Center in Havana, Cuba, dedicated to providing theater practitioners with a safe and inspiring place in which to create. In 2007, Doggart devised and co-directed the live performance piece, Balance of Ice, which combined three elements: a piece of music by Canadian composer Andrew Staniland that was inspired by the sounds of ice sheets calving; a dance performance by acclaimed Cuban ballerina Viengsay Valdes that fragmented her usual balletic virtuosity; and edited moving images of the polar ice caps and the threats facing them.

Between 2007–2008, Doggart translated and directed Cocinando con Elvis, a Spanish version of Lee Hall's play Cooking with Elvis, about food, sex, happiness, and Elvis Presley. The production opened at the Teatro Nacional in Havana, and was the first premiere of a British play in Cuba since An Inspector Calls opened in 1947.

Television career
In 1999, Doggart branched into television production, where he produced and/or directed for the BBC (Tomorrow's World); Channel Four (Living on the Line), and worked as an associate producer on ITV series (The South Bank Show and Two Thousand Years). The Financial Times wrote of Two Thousand Years: "Well made and highly informative, the first series truly to deserve the 'Millennium label'." His interview profiles included Germaine Greer, Kenneth Branagh and Nobel prize-winning Octavio Paz.

In 2000, Doggart moved to the United States where he produced/directed major TV series including:
 Wife Swap for ABC and RDF Media, an Emmy-nominated show in which two families from vastly different social classes and lifestyles, swap wives/mothers for two weeks. Doggart's film, about a New Jersey woman who treated her plastic dolls as her own children and went to the Alabama countryside to live with a man whose favourite food was armadillo with ketchup, was described as "the strangest season premiere ever," received an A+ critical rating, and clocked 3.57m viewers.
 Project Runway for Bravo, described by The New York Times as "the Prada of reality shows", and nominated for a 2005 Primetime Emmy;
 15 Films About Madonna for A&E – a one-hour one-off film, notable because Doggart directed and co-wrote 15 short films of totally different genres: animation, documentary, drama, mock political campaign ads, mock infomercial, comedy, mock 1950s PSA, and music video. The film was chosen to represent Great Britain at the 2008 Muestra de Jovenes Realizadores  in Havana, Cuba and played at the prestigious Cine Charles Chaplin.
 Two series (15 episodes) of Damage Control (TV series) for MTV, directing celebrities including Kelly Clarkson and Hulk Hogan
 30 Days for FX, hosted by Oscar-nominated Morgan Spurlock and nominated for a Producers Guild of America award
 Things I Hate About You for Bravo, a show where spouses identified a number of irritating traits in their partner, and then revealed them on camera, so that a panel of relationship experts could vote which was the better partner.
 American Candidate for Showtime Network, a reality show about aspiring presidential candidates
 Hollywood Vice for E4, a documentary series following the lives of policemen and criminals on both sides of the moral divide in Los Angeles. According to The Express: "This warts-and-all series gives a shocking insight into what goes on after dark on the back streets of LA."
 Raid Gauloises for Channel 4/TF1, an adventure race over Vietnam
 History of Movie Genres for Film4/Bravo

Film career

After writing and directing two short fictional films, Hole in the Wall and Three and a Bed, Doggart set up Tribute Films, a company that produced films for individuals, their loved ones and their pets. His production of Carol Connors and Her Cats, launched a longstanding collaboration with Connors, a passionate ailurophile (cat lover), Elvis Presley's former girlfriend, and a twice-Oscar-nominated songwriter. The film was lauded by Charlene Tilton as "the funniest thing I have ever seen". The Los Angeles Times described it as the first pet hagiography film ever made, and as "the Cadillac of filmed pet memorials".

In 2004, Doggart moved to New York City. From 2006, he spent three years making Courting Condi, the first musical docu-tragi-comedy in the history of cinema. The film won 26 awards on the festival circuit, screened at the Cannes Film Festival, and was critically acclaimed. By combining screenings of the film with public debates about its subject, Condoleezza Rice's record in office, Doggart fueled calls for Rice to be investigated for human rights abuses and war crimes.