[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nick Foligno

gh picked up four assists in seven appearances. Again limited by injury, Foligno appeared in four of the team's seven playoff games, collecting one assist and having relatively little on-ice impact, although was involved in a notable fight with Corey Perry after Perry concussed captain John Tavares.

Boston Bruins
Although there was mutual interest between Foligno and the Maple Leafs in signing a new contract, on July 28, 2021, Foligno signed as a free agent to a two-year, $7.6 million contract with the Boston Bruins. On April 2, 2022, Nick played in his 1,000th NHL game, a Bruins 5-2 home victory over his former team Columbus. Foligno had a disappointing first season with the Bruins, and as a result, was placed on waivers by the Bruins on October 9, 2022, but was brought back to the team for the  2022-23 season after going unclaimed.

After a disappointing first season with the Bruins, Foligno saw somewhat of a resurgence in his second year with the team.  He was seen as a leader on a historic Bruins team that beat the single-season NHL record for both wins and total points. By the end of the season, he doubled his point totals from the previous season, and was nicknamed "Uncle Nick" by Jakub Lauko, referring to the leadership role he had with the team. However, Foligno and the Bruins' season ended in disappointment after being eliminated by the Florida Panthers in seven games in the first round of the  Stanley Cup Playoffs, a series in which Foligno was scratched for the decisive Game 7.

Chicago Blackhawks
On June 26, 2023, Foligno, a pending free agent from the Bruins, was traded to the Chicago Blackhawks along with Taylor Hall in exchange for Ian Mitchell and Alec Regula.. The following day, Foligno agreed to a one-year, $4 million contract with the Blackhawks for the  season.

International play
Foligno represented the United States in the 2009 IIHF World Championship held in Switzerland. In nine games, he had two assists as the USA finished in fourth place, losing 4–2 to Sweden in the bronze medal game. Foligno again represented the U.S. in the 2010 IIHF World Championship in Germany, and in six games, he scored three goals. The United States struggled in the tournament, finishing in 13th place.

Personal life
Born in the United States to Canadian parents, Foligno has dual Canadian-American citizenship. At the time of his birth, his father, Mike, played for the Buffalo Sabres and the family resided in the Buffalo area. Although his brother Marcus has represented Canada internationally, Nick has chosen to represent the United States.

Nick Foligno's younger brother, Marcus, was drafted by the Sabres in the 2009 NHL Entry Draft. He currently plays for the Minnesota Wild. The two brothers also have two sisters, Lisa and Cara. In the summer of 2009, Foligno lost his mother, Janis, to breast cancer. He is an avid supporter of cancer patient care and research at Roger's House, the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Foundation, the Ottawa Regional Cancer Foundation and the Ottawa Hospital Foundation. Foligno is also the "Celebrity Chair" of Cystic Fibrosis Canada's Ottawa Chapter, where he and his wife Janelle are very active participants.

Foligno and his wife, Janelle have three children. The family resides in Upper Arlington, Ohio. He also resides in Sudbury, Ontario, during the off-season, where his parents were born and raised. He is a devout Catholic and speaks openly about his faith. On October 11, 2016, Foligno and his wife donated $1 million to Nationwide Children's Hospital and Boston Children's Hospital, the same facilities that took care of their daughter's heart defects when she was a newborn.

Foligno has traditionally worn jersey number 71, an inversion of the number 17 his father wore for most of his NHL career (although Mike did wear 71 while playing for the Toronto Maple Leafs). However, as fellow Bruins left winger Taylor Hall has already been wearing #71 as a Bruins player, Foligno chose to wear his #17 as his father did as an NHL player - the same number former Bruins power forward Milan Lucic wore through the 2014-15 season, and later worn by former Bruins forward Ryan Donato.

Career statistics

Regular season and playoffs

International

Awards and honors

References

External links

 
 Foligno player profile at Hockeysfuture.com

1987 births
Living people
American men's ice hockey centers
American sportspeople of Canadian descent
American people of Italian descent
Binghamton Senators players
Boston Bruins players
Catholics from New York (state)
Chicago Blackhawks players
Columbus Blue Jackets players
King Clancy Memorial Trophy winners
Ice hockey people from Buffalo, New York
National Hockey League All-Stars
National Hockey League first-round draft picks
Ottawa Senators draft picks
Ottawa Senators players
Ice hockey people from Greater Sudbury
Sudbury Wolves players
Toronto Maple Leafs players
USA Hockey National Team Development Program players