[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Old Abe

64, until March 5, they took part in Sherman's Meridian expedition against an important railroad center and arsenal in eastern Mississippi.

In the following letter to Governor Edward Salomon, General William T. Sherman summarized the activities of the Eighth Wisconsin during the Vicksburg campaign:

H  15 A C,
Sept. 21st, 1863
To His Excellency, the Governor of Wisconsin:
Sir Lt. Col. Jefferson, of the Eighth Wisconsin, is about to start for his home on a short leave of absence, during the period of rest allowed us by the lull of military events in this quarter.  I avail myself of the opportunity to express to you my personal and  official approbation of the entire regiment since I have had the honor to count it as one of my command.  The  Eighth Wisconsin has ever done its whole duty, in the camp, on the march and in battle. It has shared with us all the honors and success of our conquest of Mississippi and has displayed peculiar courage and gallantry at Jackson, May 14th, and throughout the siege of Vicksburg.
It also, under the leadership of Gen. Mower, cleared the west bank of the river, driving the enemy out of Richmond, La., and bore patiently and manfully the deadly sickness of Young's Point, till the fall of Vicksburg admitted of its recall to join us on this higher and more healthy ground. I am glad to report that the men are fast recovering from the sickness caused by that exposure, and I hope it will share with us our future labors and honors.  If within your power, I hope you will fill its thinned ranks, and then I will promise all I can to ensure its return to your State, bearing a full share of honor and fame in the establishment of our General Government on a basis so firm, that no internal or external power can shake it during this generation.
With great respect, etc.,
W. T. SHERMAN,
Maj. Gen.

Sherman was not the only general who had a high regard for the 8th Wisconsin and Old Abe.  In the words of David McLain:

I have frequently seen Generals Grant, Sherman, McPherson, Rosecrans, Blair, Logan, and others, when they were passing our regiment, raise their hats as they passed Old Abe, which always brought a cheer from the regiment and then the eagle would spread his wings …

Red River Campaign
In early 1864, many soldiers in the 8th Wisconsin became eligible for veteran furlough.  However, General Sherman made a special request that they join General A. J. Smith's forces who had been assigned to the Red River Campaign, along with troops from the Army of the Gulf, under General Nathaniel P. Banks, and Admiral David Dixon Porter's Mississippi River Squadron.  After  agreeing to Sherman's request,  the regiment joined the Right wing of the xvi corps, under the command of General Mower.  On March 10, 1864, the contingent began a voyage from Vicksburg down the Mississippi and up the Red River to Simmesport, Louisiana, where they disembarked on March 12.  Two days later, Mower's command surprised and captured Fort DeRussy, which opened the river up to Alexandria.

After arriving there on March 16, the troops from Vicksburg settled down to wait for Banks to arrive and to assess opposing forces under General Richard Taylor, who was the son of President Zachary Taylor.  While waiting, General Mower assembled a task force, with which he proceeded twenty five miles to Henderson's hill on Bayou Rapides.  Here, he encountered Confederate defenses.  After leaving a blocking force to engage the defenders at the front, he made a detour of 15 miles to get to their rear, where he arrived around midnight on the cold and rainy night of March 21.  On the way, a courier from General Taylor was  captured and provided the countersign.  This enabled Mower's forces, including the 8th Wisconsin, to overcome the defenses without a shot being fired.  In addition to 262 prisoners, 4 guns and 400 horses were taken.

This success made it possible for Smith's army to move quickly upriver to Grand Ecore, where it prepared to support forces of General Banks, which were advancing on Shreveport.  On April 8, Banks was routed by Taylor at the Battle of Mansfield.  This was a decisive victory, for it stopped the Union advance and turned the campaign into a general retreat.

That evening, retreating units under Banks reached Pleasant Hill nearly simultaneously with Smith's XVII and XVI Corps, which included the 8th Wisconsin.  These reinforcements enabled the Union to win the next day's Battle of Pleasant Hill, but Banks immediately ordered a retreat to Grand Ecore, and from there, to Alexandria.  During this retreat, the regiment fought rear guard actions at Natchitoches, Monett's Ferry, and Cloutierville.