[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Joe Arpaio

.

Arpaio used the detention fund to pay for investigations of political rivals, as well as activities involving his human-smuggling unit.

The analysis also showed a number of inappropriate spending items including a trip to Alaska where deputies stayed at a fishing resort, and trips to Disneyland.

Separate investigations by The Arizona Republic uncovered widespread abuse of public funds and county policies by Arpaio's office, including high-ranking employees routinely charging expensive meals and stays at luxury hotels on their county credit cards.

The Republic also found that a restricted jail-enhancement fund was improperly used to pay for out-of-state training, a staff party at a local amusement park, and a $456,000 bus which Arpaio purchased in violation of county procurement rules.

Misconduct and mismanagement memo
In September 2010, a 63-page internal memo written by Maricopa Deputy Chief Frank Munnell, was made public. The memo alleged years of misconduct and mismanagement by Arpaio's second-in-command and other top MCSO officers, including the use of a public-corruption task force to conduct politically motivated probes into political opponents. The memo alleged that top officials in the MCSO "willfully and intentionally committed criminal acts by attempting to obstruct justice, tamper with witnesses, and destroy evidence." Arpaio forwarded the memo to the Pinal County Sheriff's Office, requesting they conduct an administrative investigation. Former top MCSO staffers claimed that Arpaio knew of the acts alleged in the Munnell memo, but took no action to stop them. Arpaio has not commented publicly on the allegations.

In October 2010, the U.S. Attorney for Arizona confirmed that the FBI and Department of Justice had received copies of the Munnell memo and were conducting criminal investigations into its allegations.

Wrongful arrest and entrapment lawsuit and settlement
In 1999, undercover MCSO deputies arrested James Saville, then 18 years old, and charged him with plotting to kill Arpaio with a pipe bomb. A local television station had been tipped off to the arrest by the MCSO, and broadcast footage of the arrest that evening. The MCSO held a news conference shortly after the arrest, and Arpaio appeared in interviews on local television stations, saying "If they think they are going to scare me away with bombs and everything else, it's not going to bother me."

In July 2003, after spending almost four years in jail awaiting trial, Saville was acquitted by a Maricopa County Superior Court jury. Jurors were persuaded that Saville had been entrapped by the MCSO as part of a publicity stunt by Arpaio. This was a rare example of a successful entrapment defense, which is very difficult to prove. Jurors interviewed following the trial said that "they were convinced that Saville had been a pawn in an elaborate media ploy." The jury forewoman subsequently said: "This was a publicity stunt at the expense of four years of someone's life." Another juror stated that "This was a big setup from the beginning."

In 2004, Saville, following the acquittal, sued Arpaio and Maricopa County for wrongful arrest and entrapment. In 2008, the suit was settled, with Maricopa County paying Saville $1.1 million. Saville also received an unspecified additional compensation from the county's insurance company.

Abuse-of-power allegations and investigation
In 2008, a federal grand jury began an inquiry of Arpaio for abuse-of-power in connection with an FBI investigation. On August 31, 2012, the Arizona U.S. Attorney's office announced that it was "closing its investigation into allegations of criminal conduct" by Arpaio, without filing charges.

Arpaio was investigated for politically motivated and "bogus" prosecutions, which a former U.S. Attorney called "utterly unacceptable". Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon called Arpaio's "long list" of questionable prosecutions "a reign of terror".

The targets of Arpaio's alleged abuse of power included:
 Phil Gordon, Phoenix Mayor
 Dan Saban, Arpaio's 2004 and 2008 opponent for the office of Sheriff of Maricopa County
 Terry Goddard, Arizona Attorney General
 David Smith, Maricopa County Manager
 The Maricopa County Board of Supervisors
 Barbara Mundell, Maricopa Superior Court Presiding Judge
 Anna Baca, former Maricopa Superior Court Presiding Judge
 Gary Donahoe, Maricopa Superior Court Criminal Presiding Judge
 Daniel Pochoda, ACLU attorney
 Sandra Dowling, former Maricopa County School Superintendent
 Mike Lacey, Editor, Phoenix New Times