[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hammdidullah

d that his witnesses were relevant, and the State Department was requested to contact the Afghan government to contact Hammdidullah's witnesses. After a month the Tribunal hadn't heard back, so Hammdidullah's witnesses were ruled "not reasonably available".

Testimony
Gul testified to the following:

 He had never been or admitted to being a member of the Taliban.  
 He acknowledged being captured in January 2003, in his home; he said he had welcomed the arrival of the Americans and their help in unseating the Taliban and helping Hamid Karzai's government.
 He had been twice imprisoned by the Taliban.
 He acknowledged working for Ariana Airlines.
 When the Taliban seized him it was in order to forcibly conscript him and send him to the front lines. By accepting the position at Ariana he was able to avoid being press-ganged to the front lines.
 Ariana Airlines did not have any direct ties to the government.
 The Taliban did not control Ariana Airlines; it was a for-profit business.
 The Taliban did not enlist Ariana to transport their members – Taliban members could have bought tickets, like anyone else, but they never chartered any of their planes for their purposes.
 Ariana Airlines did not provide free flights for Taliban recruits – the Taliban had its own fleet of planes for transporting troops.
 He had never heard the allegation that an Ariana Airlines pilot was an al-Qaeda member; Gul said he didn't know any al-Qaeda members, and that all the Ariana employees were civilians.

Determined not to have been an enemy combatant
The Washington Post reports that detainee 953, whom they refer to as Janat Gul, was one of 38 detainees who was determined not to have been an enemy combatant during his Combatant Status Review Tribunal, and was, eventually, released.

Guantanamo medical records
On March 16, 2007 the Department of Defense published medical records for the captives.
According to those records Hammdidullah was  tall, and he was weighed just three times: on March 23, 2003, when he weighed , and in January and March 2003, when he weighed . His records indicate he declined to be weighed in February 2003.

CIA detention
Journalists who reviewed the United States Senate Intelligence Committee's report on the CIA's use of torture concluded that Hammdidullah was still in CIA custody in 2006.

References

Afghan extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Living people
Guantanamo detainees known to have been released
Year of birth uncertain
Year of birth missing (living people)