[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Parliament of Romania

to the documents issued by the provisional revolutionary power, Romania returned to a bicameral parliamentary system, represented politically as such both by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. All these stipulations can be found in the country's new Constitution, approved by referendum in 1991.

During more than a decade of post-communist transition, the Chamber of Deputies and Senate debated and adopted numerous laws and regulations aimed at reforming the entire society on a democratic basis, guaranteeing respect of fundamental human rights, promoting reform and privatization, consolidating free market economic institutions and those of a state ruled by law, which led to Romania's integration into such notable international institutions as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in 2004 and the European Union (EU) three years later in 2007.

List of presidents of the Houses 

Last election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies: November 2021

The 1866, 1923, and 1938 Constitution of Romania state that the assembly presidents are elected at the beginning of each session. This tradition was kept in the early years of the People's Republic. In modern times, both presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and of the Senate are elected for the entire duration of that house's term. Under special circumstances the presidents of the houses can be revoked.

The political stance of the presidents of the assembly prior to the development of a modern party system is shown by:

The political stance of the presidents of the assembly after the development of a modern party system is shown by:

19th century

20th century

21st century

Functioning 

Prior to the modifications of the Constitution in 2003, the two houses had identical attributes. A text of a law had to be approved by both houses. If the text differed, a special commission (comisie de mediere) was formed by deputies and senators, that "negotiated" between the two houses the form of the future law. The report of this commission had to be approved in a joint session of the Parliament. This French procedure proved to be extremely long and inefficient with respect to the expectations of the Romanians towards democracy.

After the 2003 referendum, a law still has to be approved by both houses, but in some matters one is "superior" to the other, being called "decision chamber" ("cameră decizională"). This eliminates the process of "negotiation" between the two houses, and keeps the Senate as the upper house and the Chamber as the lower house.

Committees 

Committees of the Chamber of Deputies (15):
– The committee for legal affairs, appointments, discipline, immunities and validations;  – Committee on Budget, finance, banking and capital market;  – The commission for economy, industry and services;  – Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development;  – The Committee on Foreign Affairs;  – Committee on public administration, the territory and environmental protection;  – The commission for defense, public order and national security;  – Commission for work, family and social protection;  – Committee for Education, Science, Youth and Sports;  – Committee on Public Health;  – Committee for culture, art and media information in the table;  – Commission on Human Rights, religious and minority;  – The Committee on Equal Opportunities;  – Commission for privatization and management of state assets;  – Committee on research abuses, corruption and petitions.

Committees of the Senate (14): 
– Committee for Economic Policy, Reform, and Privatization;  – Committee for Budget, Finance, and, Banks, Committee for Industries and Services, Committee for Agriculture, Forestry, Food Industry and Specific Services;  – Committee for Human Rights, Cults and National Minorities Issues;  – Committee for Public Administration Territorial Planning and Ecological Balance;  – Committee for Labour and Social Protection, Committee for Health and Family;  – Committee for Education, Science, Youth, and Sport;  – Committee for Culture, Arts, Mass Information Means;  – Committee for Legal Matters, Discipline, and Immunities;  – Committee for Defense Public Order, and National Security;  – Committee for Foreign Policy;  – Committee for the Investigation of Abuses, Corrupt Practices, and for Petitions;  – Committee for Standing Orders;  – Committee for information technologies and communications;  – Committee on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men.