[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Afghanistan–Iran relations

18, an increase in Taliban activity in the border between Iran and Afghanistan suggests a possible cooperation between the Iranian forces and the Talibans. According to a Reuters report, In 2018 Afghan forces accused Iran of presenting the Taliban with arms and money, but Iran denies the accusation.

Saur Revolution and Iranian Revolution 
On 27 April 1978 Afghan Army units affiliated with the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan launched an armed uprising against the Afghan President Daoud Khan. 2 days after the assassination of Daoud Khan the Shah of Iran told American presidential candidate George H.W Bush that he viewed the Khalqist seizure of power as example of the Soviet Union's attempt to encircle Iran. On 22 August the Khalqist faction of the PDPA led by Nur Muhammad Taraki and Hafizullah Amin launch a purge against the Parcham faction. Taraki blamed what he called a conspiracy involving China, the United States, Pakistan, The Saudis and Iran. On 19 December 1978, Hafizullah Amin requested 20 million rubles in assistance to expand the AGSA and establish a "military intelligence network for the DRA in Iran, Pakistan, and some Arab countries". In February 1979 the Shah of Iran was overthrown as part of the Iranian Revolution which replaced the pro western but secularist Shah with the anti American but theocraticAyatollah Khomeini. Initially the PDPA-Khalq government wished to have good relations but after Khomeini issued a public condemnation of the Saur Revolution causing relations to sour immensely between the Shia theocratic government of Iran and the Sunni Pashtun dominated Communist government of Afghanistan. On 15 March 1979 an uprising was launched in Herat city. In a phone call between Premier of the Soviet Union Alexei Kosygin and General Secretary of the PDPA, Nur Muhammad Taraki, Taraki claimed that 4,000 Iranian soldiers had entered Herat dressed as civilians asking the Soviets to send Soldiers from the Central Asian republics in Afghan uniforms to help them counteract Iranian interference. In June 1979 a uprising was launched by the ethnic hazara shia minority in Chindawol, Kabul. The uprising was brutally crushed and over 2,000 participants were arrested and executed.

Post-1979 

In December 1979, the Soviet Union sent around 100,000 troops to the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan to assist the PDPA government against a nationwide mujahideen insurgency. The mujahideen were made up of various groups that were trained by Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United States. A number of revolutionary Shi'a groups took control of parts of Hazarajat in 1979 in opposition to the mujahideen groups, and had ties to the Iranian government. After the death of Khomeini in 1989, the Iranian government encouraged many of the Shi'a groups to combine and establish the Hezb-e Wahdat, hoping that they would be included in international negotiations. Between the Soviet Union's withdrawal in February 1989 and the fall from power of president Najibullah in April 1992, Iran supported the PDPA government. In the words of historian Barnett Rubin, "Iran saw the Soviet-backed Kabul government as the main force blocking the takeover of Afghanistan by Sunni Wahhabi parties backed by these three countries [Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United States]. Although it continued to support Shia parties politically, it did not support their making war on the Najibullah government." In the meantime, over a million Afghan refugees were allowed to enter Iran.

Following the emergence of the Taliban government and their harsh treatment of Afghanistan's minorities, Iran stepped up assistance to the Northern Alliance. Relations with the Taliban deteriorated further in 1998 after Taliban forces seized the Iranian consulate in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-i-Sharif and executed Iranian diplomats.

War in Afghanistan (2001–2021) 

Since late 2001, the Afghan government under Hamid Karzai installed after the has engaged in cordial relations with both Iran and the United States, even as relations between the United States and Iran have grown strained due to American objections to Iran's nuclear program. Iran was an important factor in the overthrow of the Taliban and has since helped revive Afghanistan's economy and infrastructure. It re-opened the Iranian Embassy in Kabul and its associated consulates in other Afghan cities. In the meantime, Iran joined the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Most of its contributions are aimed at developing the Afghan Shi'a communities, especially the ethnic Hazaras and Qizilbash. Iran also has influence on political parties represented by ethnic Tajiks, which includes Abdullah Abdullah's Coalition for Change and Hope and others. On the contrary, many Afghan politicians and experts claim that both Iran and Pakistan are working to weaken Afghanistan.