[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Anand Satyanand

Sir Anand Satyanand,  (born 22 July 1944) is a former lawyer, judge and ombudsman who served as the 19th Governor-General of New Zealand from 2006 to 2011. 

Satyanand was chair of the Commonwealth Foundation for two 2-year terms, ending in December 2016. He then chaired the Commonwealth Observation Group of the National Elections of the Independent State of Papua New Guinea in 2017. In 2018, the New Zealand Government appointed him to lead the Royal Commission of Inquiry into Historical Abuse in State care and in the care of Faith-based Institutions, which is scheduled to continue until 2023. In November 2019, at the conclusion of its build-up phase, he stepped down as chair. In August 2019 he was elected to be Chancellor of the University of Waikato for a 4-year term.

Early life and family

Anand Satyanand was born on 22 July 1944 and raised in Auckland to an Indo-Fijian family. His grandparents arrived in Fiji from India in 1911, and his grandfather worked as a government interpreter. His father, Mutyala Satyanand, was born in Sigatoka in 1913 and arrived in New Zealand in 1927 to attend high school and later university. His mother Tara Tillak was from Suva, and trained as a Karitane nurse in New Zealand. She married Mutyala Satyanand in 1940, after moving to New Zealand.

Satyanand attended Sacred Heart College in Auckland, and then undertook the medical intermediate course at the University of Otago in Dunedin. He was not successful in gaining entry to the medical school and later said "in reality I did not do well enough ... (but) ... Looking back over that year, I remembered that one of the things I had really enjoyed was the debating and forum meetings involving students." So instead he turned to law studies, working part-time as a law clerk in Auckland. He worked at Westfield Freezing Works to help fund his studies and developed a friendship with David Lange who also worked there at the same time. He graduated with a Bachelor of Laws from the University of Auckland in 1970. He worked as a lawyer for the next 12 years, some of that with the Crown Solicitor's firm and then as a Partner with the legal firm Shieff Angland. His legal work centred on criminal law and revenue law. He served on the Council of the Auckland District Law Society from 1979 until his appointment as a Judge of the District Court of New Zealand in 1982.

During the 1966 general election, Satyanand helped Clive Edwards (later Tongan Deputy Prime Minister) when he stood in Auckland Central for National. Later, in the 1975 general election, Satyanand and his wife helped David Lange in his first, unsuccessful attempt at election (for Labour, in the seat of Hobson).

In 1995 Satyanand was appointed an Ombudsman, and he served two 5-year terms. Between 2005 and his appointment as governor-general he chaired the Confidential Forum for Former In-Patients of Psychiatric Hospitals, reviewed the Banking Ombudsman scheme, and installed the Pecuniary Interests Register and Scheme for Members of Parliament.

Satyanand has been married to Susan Sharpe since 1970. She was born in Sydney, Australia, in 1947 and moved to New Zealand with her family in 1955. Susan and Anand have three adult children. Satyanand's daughter Anya is an advocate of gay marriage, being in a civil union with her partner Ange. In 2002, Satyanand and his wife were involved in a serious car accident in Dome Valley north of Warkworth, Northland, where an oncoming car crossed the centre line and crashed head-on into their car. Both were injured, and Satyanand suffered serious spinal injury; he broke his C2 and C3 vertebrae, and had to wear a halo traction to keep his head straight.

As well as English, Satyanand also speaks some Fijian, Telugu, Hindi patois, and Māori.

Governor-General of New Zealand
In 2006, Satyanand was appointed Governor-General by Queen Elizabeth II on the advice of the New Zealand government under Prime Minister Helen Clark. He succeeded Dame Silvia Cartwright as governor-general on 23 August 2006. His appointment was welcomed by every parliamentary party leader. He was the first governor-general of Indian descent and the first Roman Catholic governor-general.

Prince Richard, Duke of Gloucester, Grand Prior of the Order of St John, received Satyanand as governor-general designate on 7 July 2006 and invested him as a Knight of Justice of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St John of Jerusalem.

In May 2007 changes were made to the Queen's Service Order. Under the previous Royal Warrant, the governor-general was ex-officio Principal Companion of the Order but was not a member of the Order. The Royal Warrant now provides for the appointment of the governor-general as a Companion of the Order in their own right.

The first bill to which Satyanand granted Royal Assent was the Coroners Bill.