[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Human rights in the British Virgin Islands

belonger wanting to buy property is subject to an investigation by authorities before the sale may go through. In addition, permission for the non-belonger to buy a piece of property may be subject to certain conditions, such as a ban on renting out the property.

The acquisition of belonger status

Since 2001, it has become more difficult under BVI law to acquire belonger status.

A person born in the BVI with one or two belonger parents is automatically considered a belonger and is also a BOTC.

Persons born in the BVI before 1983 are considered belongers and BOTC. Persons born in the BVI in 2001 or later to parents who are not under Immigration Department control are belongers and BOTC.

Persons born in the BVI before 2001 to parents who are Commonwealth citizens are considered belongers.

A person born in the BVI to a BOTC mother or (legitimately) to a BOTC father is considered a BOTC but not necessarily a belonger. A person who enjoys BOTC status by virtue of parentage but who was not born in the BVI is not necessarily a belonger.

A person born or resident in the BVI who does not fall into any of the above categories is not considered a belonger or a BOTC and is regarded as a temporary immigrant, although belongership and BOTC can be acquired through marriage or application, as described below.

Non-belonger women married to men who are belongers by birth, immediate descent,
or naturalisation, or who received a belonger certificate between 1967 and 2001, also become belongers, unless they were divorced before 2001.

A non-belonger who married a belonger in 2001 or later may apply for belonger status after five years of marriage and BVI residence in the BVI.  Persons who have spent a year or more in prison for committing a criminal offense are denied this status in such cases, however.

Non-belonger individuals who wish to acquire permanent resident status (that is, to hold a Certificate of Residence), must apply to the Immigration Department. The ensuing bureaucratic process may take years.

An individual over age 18 who was born in or is a resident of the BVI may apply to the governor for belonger status after living in the BVI for at least 10 years and holding a certificate of residence for at least one year.  The governor has no obligation to confer belonger status in such situations.

A person who has not been under Immigration Department control for at least one year and who has lived in the BVI for at least five years (three if married to a BOTC) may apply to the governor for BOTC status, which would also carry with it belonger status.

The minor children of parents who have been granted a certificate of residence or belonger status may also be granted the same status as their parents.

LGBT rights

The rights of gay men, lesbians, bisexuals, and transgender people in the British Virgin Islands are relatively restricted as compared with their rights in most Western countries, including the United Kingdom. Until 2001, the BVI criminal code considered buggery a crime. Same-sex activity was decriminalised in that year by an Order in Council by the British government, which acted only under pressure from the EU and UN and against the wishes of the majority of BVI residents.

Human rights efforts

The office of the governor of the BVI organised a week-long program on "Building Human Rights Capacity" in July 2011, intended to improve the understanding and observance of human rights on the part of government officials, law-enforcement officers, immigration officials, and private citizens.

The group Related by Humanity seeks "to promote Human Rights awareness in the Territory of the Virgin Islands". On 10 December 2011, it organized the islands' first official celebration of International Human Rights Day in hope that greater awareness could be brought to this very real and harrowing issue.

Human rights incidents

Recent reports of human rights incidents in the BVI.
 In 2017 various high risk prisoners were transferred to Bordelais Correctional Facility in St. Lucia after the prison in the BVI was damaged in Hurricane Irma.  The prisoners complained about being so far removed from their families and violations of their human rights.  Those complaints were rejected by Government officials in the BVI and in St Lucia.
 In April 2017 UNICEF published a controversial report on the state of the British Virgin Islands, which included criticism of discrimination against expats in the Territory.

Footnotes

See also

Law of the British Virgin Islands

British Virgin Islands
Law of the British Virgin Islands