[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Cybermorph

iews. They lauded the open world environments, level design, length, and real-time 3D graphics. Internal documentation from Atari Corporation showed that the stand-alone release had sold fewer than 2,000 copies by April 1, 1995. In 1996, ST Format regarded it as one of the ten best games for Jaguar.

Retrospective coverage 
Retrospective commentary for Cybermorph has been equally divisive. MyAtaris Robert Jung commended the game's password system, on-screen displays, fast and complex polygonal graphics, and coloring effects provided by the Gouraud shading. Nevertheless, Jung noted that its pacing will not appeal to everyone and also found the inability to change difficulty, the computer Skylar, and audio as shortcomings. Author Andy Slaven expressed that the game had not aged well compared to its follow-up Battlemorph. Slaven found the game's flat-shaded environments devoid of features and deemed its sound effects and voiceovers to be outdated. The Atari Timess Brendan Onfrichuk regarded Cybermorph as a fun game and found the pod-collecting gameplay reminiscent of Defender (1981). Onfrichuk also gave favorable remarks to its audiovisual presentation and controls. Retro Gamers Sam Heffernan noted that the game's audio "still stand up well", but disapproved its plain graphics. Nils Nils and Christian Roth of German website neXGam highlighted Skylar's voiceovers and overall length of the game but criticized the visuals for their short draw distance and sluggish action. In 2023, Time Extension listed it as one of the best games for the Jaguar.

Legacy 

A sequel to Cybermorph was pitched by Attention to Detail to Atari Corporation after the first game was finished and released to the market. The staff wanted to make a follow-up and implement ideas they were not able to include in the original game, while also using techniques they learned late during development of Cybermorph to improve the overall experience. Battlemorph was announced in 1994 as one of the first upcoming games for the Atari Jaguar CD add-on. It was published in North America and Europe in December 1995.

In 2008, the source code of Cybermorph was released by hobbyist community Jaguar Sector II under a CD compilation called Jaguar Source Code Collection. Skylar appears as a boss on the stage "Future Fuckballs 2010" in the game Angry Video Game Nerd Adventures (2013) for Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, and Windows (via Steam).

References

External links 

 Cybermorph (1MB) at AtariAge
 Cybermorph (2MB) at AtariAge
 Cybermorph at GameFAQs
 Cybermorph at MobyGames

1993 video games
Atari games
Atari Jaguar games
Attention to Detail games
Commercial video games with freely available source code
Pack-in video games
Science fiction video games
Shooter games
Single-player video games
Video games developed in the United Kingdom
Video games scored by David Lowe
Video games set in outer space
Video games set in the future