[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniel Ellis (Unionist)

ong as he was able, he was compelled to travel well-armed and always on the alert. Nonetheless, Ellis lived into old age, always preferring to walk when possible, recounting his exploits, and enjoying a measure of local celebrity.

Ellis is buried in the family cemetery near Elizabethton, Tennessee.

Influence today
Today Ellis is hardly remembered outside of Carter County, with his legacy perhaps swept up in a healing repression of the horrors, cruelty, and upheaval of the Civil War in the Appalachian mountains. However, his writings seem to be emerging from obscurity as the Civil War experience of the Appalachian south gains more attention from historians.

Thrilling Adventures of Daniel Ellis remains in print and, despite its narrative excesses, is largely regarded as an invaluable, if highly partisan, accounting of conditions in wartime Appalachia. Some modern critics feel Ellis exaggerates his own role, while Ellis' contemporaries maintain that he was too modest to adequately convey his war record.

Ellis' wartime tales have also made some recent inroads into popular culture: 
Thrilling Adventures was used as a source (and inspired a scene or two) by Charles Frazier for his celebrated novel, Cold Mountain, which was later adapted into a major motion picture released in 2003.
A character based upon Ellis (and Ellis himself) appears in Cameron Judd's "Mountain War Trilogy":
The Phantom Legion: A Novel of Unionist Resistance in Tennessee and North Carolina, February–December 1863 (New York, 1997).
Season of Reckoning: A Novel of Unionist Resistance in Tennessee and North Carolina, January 1864 – February 1866 (New York, 1997).
The Shadow Warriors: A Novel of Unionist Resistance in Tennessee and North Carolina, September 1860 – January 1863 (New York, 1997).

References
 Downing, David C. A South Divided: Portraits of Dissent in the Confederacy. Nashville: Cumberland House, 2007. 
 Ellis, Allen W. "Ellis, Daniel." In Encyclopedia USA: The Encyclopedia of the United States of America Past & Present, ed. Donald Whisenhunt, vol. 26. Academic International Press, 1999: 232–234.

External links

Captain Daniel Ellis, The Old Red Fox of East Tennessee, 1827–1908

19th-century American memoirists
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
People of Tennessee in the American Civil War
Southern Unionists in the American Civil War
Writers from Tennessee
1827 births
1908 deaths
People from Carter County, Tennessee