[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mallaah

s like Muzaffarpur and Vaishali. In Muzaffarpur region, they have emerged as the most influential caste politically, leaving behind Bhumihar, Rajput, Koeri, Kurmi and Yadav. Since decades the Member of Parliament from this constituency has remained from the Mallah caste only.

In Pakistan

In Sindh 

In Sindh, the Mallaah are traditionally boatmen and fisherfolk, living along the inlets of the Indus delta. They speak Sindhi, and are close associated with Mohana tribe.  The Mallaah are found mainly in the coastal districts of Thatta and Badin, and most are largely still fishermen. Many have seen their traditional areas of habitation washed away by the sea. The Indus Delta is also silting, which makes cultivation difficult. An important subsidiary occupation is animal husbandry, with the Mallaah raising cattle. Although living in close proximity to the Jath community, who customs are similar to the Mallaah, there is almost no intermarriage. The Mallaah community consists of a number of clans, referred to as nukh, the largest Mallaah nukh being the Dablo.

In Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 

In Punjab, the boatmen belong either to the Mallaah or Jhabel tribe. In south west Punjab, they often claim themselves to be a clan of Rajputs, and found mainly along the banks of the Indus. They extend as far north as Dera Ismail Khan District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where there settlements are found mainly along the banks of the Indus. In this region, many Mallaah are cultivators, and have given up their occupation as boatmen. They generally combine their specialized occupation of boat management with other occupations such as fishing and the growing of waternuts.

In neighbouring Punjab, the Mallaah are found mainly in the districts of Muzaffargarh, Dera Ghazi Khan, Rajanpur , Uch Sharief and Layyah, and said to be by origin Jhinwar. While Bahawalpur, the Mallaah, Mohana and Jhabel are said to have a common origin, with Mohana being fishermen, the Mallaah being boatmen and Jhabel being cultivators. The Mallah speak Seraiki, and are entirely Sunni. There are also Mallaah communities in the Hazara Division of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. They live along the banks of the Indus in the Haripur and Mansehra districts and speak Hindko, a dialect of Punjabi.

Mallaah in Nepal
The Central Bureau of Statistics of Nepal classifies the Mallaah (called Mallaha in the Nepal census) as a subgroup within the broader social group of Madheshi Other Caste. At the time of the 2011 Nepal census, 173,261 people (0.7% of the population of Nepal) were Mallaah. The frequency of Mallaahs by province was as follows:
 Madhesh Province (2.3%)
 Lumbini Province (0.7%)
 Koshi Province (0.4%)
 Bagmati Province (0.0%)
 Gandaki Province (0.0%)
 Karnali Province (0.0%)
 Sudurpashchim Province (0.0%)

The frequency of Mallaahs was higher than national average (0.7%) in the following districts:
 Rautahat (2.9%)
 Sarlahi (2.7%)
 Parsa (2.6%)
 Bara (2.5%)
 Siraha (2.5%)
 Saptari (2.1%)
 Rupandehi (2.0%)
 Mahottari (1.4%)
 Dhanusha (1.3%)
 Morang (1.3%)
 Bardiya (1.1%)
 Parasi (0.8%)

References 

Ethnic groups in Nepal
Social groups of Uttar Pradesh
Social groups of Bihar
Sindhi tribes
Other Backward Classes
Shudra castes