[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Charles Jacobs (activist)

ton Cultural Center and were permitted to participate in prayers. The mosque's leadership group, the Muslim American Society of Boston responded to Jacobs's allegations, arguing that APT had misrepresented the situation by suggesting that students had been directed to pray when in fact they had not.

In 2013, APT condemned material it alleged was taught in the public schools of Newton, Massachusetts, suggesting that its content was anti-Semitic and biased against Israel. As part of its efforts in this regard, APT launched an advertising campaign alleging that the educational material was anti-Israel and "glorif[ied] Islam." Local school officials and religious leaders vigorously disputed APT's allegations. The claims in APT's ads were challenged by the Anti-Defamation League, which called APT's claims "misleading" and argued in a report it issued on the controversy that APT's "charge" with respect to the educational material "lacks evidence and is irresponsible." The Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the town of Newton have also rejected APT's claims.

Political views

Islam and Muslims
Jacobs has authored columns praising prominent counter-jihad activists such as Brigitte Gabriel; Ezra Levant; Mark Steyn; Robert Spencer; and Pamela Geller, who he terms a "Jewish heroine" and "one of the most courageous Jewish women of our time." Jacobs has referred to Steven Emerson as a "terrorist expert," and has praised Frank Gaffney as "fabulously eloquent," encouraging readers of his column to attend a public lecture Gaffney delivered in 2010.

Jacobs has consistently attempted to discredit the notion of Islamophobia, describing it as an "Islamist political tool," a "specter," a "bogus concept," and  "a term created and employed by radical Islamists." He has claimed that the "Muslim community" is "dominated by radical Islamists posing as moderates," although on other occasions alleges that Muslims in America, while "historically moderate," are now becoming radical. He has alleged that 80 percent of mosques have been "radicalized." Jacobs claimed at a public forum that "I believe in the possibility of a moderate American Islam, but I believe that Saudi extremists are here to strangle that possibility." He has further suggested that American society has fallen victim to "Islamists" who "exploit our laws and values ... to facilitate the promotion of Islam and Sharia law," and warned of a "stealth jihad" in America. Writing with Avi Goldwasser in 2012, he suggested that at least some Muslim students on American university campuses "should be required to attend sensitivity training about Judaism and about American values of tolerance."

Jacobs has voiced particular concern about the Jewish community in relation to the threat he perceives from Islam. He has suggested that the Jewish community is under "ideological and perhaps physical threat from the alliance of progressives and radical Muslims," later elaborating in an interview with Steve Bannon on Breitbart News Daily to claim that "the left-Muslim alliance presents the greatest threat to Jewish life on this planet." He argues that "the Jews of Europe have sustained unrelenting political and physical assault by the growing Left/Islamist (or "Red/Green") Alliance, which holds Israel, and its supporters in the West, responsible for all the world's ills." Jacobs likewise alleges that Muslim immigrants have had a negative impact on Jewish life outside the United States, claiming, for example, that "Judeophobic Muslim immigrants in Europe are driving the Jews out."

Human rights groups
Jacobs frequently argues that American and European human rights groups ignore human rights violations committed by actors of non-European descent. "The human rights community," he has claimed, "composed mostly of compassionate white people, feels a special duty to protest evil done by those who are like 'us'."

Israel
Jacobs claims that demonization and delegitimization of Israel, which he terms "anti-Israelism," is equivalent to antisemitism, and further argues that "[a]nti-Israelism dominates the current discourse." Jacobs has often warned of what he terms a "left/Muslim alliance" antagonistic to Israel.

Speaking for the David Project at a rally in 2004, Jacobs said in relation to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict that "[i]f Arabs wanted peace, there would be peace."

Jewish organizations
Jacobs has long taken issue with some Jewish organizations such as the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) and Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC).

In 2011, Jacobs criticized the ADL for failing to address "Islamic anti-Semitism" and instead focusing on Islamophobia, which he alleged was "a term created and employed by radical Islamists to block and stain with the racist label, any public concern about Islamist beliefs and conduct." In 2013, he claimed that the ADL had failed to advocate for "Jewish concerns," instead focusing on what he termed "what today passes for 'liberal' universalist values."