[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Arma 2

of the most important things to happen to PC Gaming in 2012. The mod was responsible for putting the three-year-old game into the top seller charts for over seven weeks, spending much of this time the top selling game, and is responsible for over 300,000 unit sales within two months of its release.

Release
The demo version of Arma 2 was released on Bohemia Interactive forums on 25 June 2009, and shortly thereafter on Steam. In the demo version, the player is given the possibility to play two single player missions as well as six of the eight training missions, with limited access to the mission editor. There is also access to a benchmark and limited online multiplayer.Arma 2 uses different copy protections depending on publisher as well as a in-house coded copy protection solution against tampering known as DEGRADE. If the software detects that it was pirated, the DEGRADE-system degrades features of the game, rendering it unplayable. The version downloadable from Steam is not limited by number of installs, but other download services may utilize some limits. As of version 1.05 the publishers copy protection have been removed from Arma 2 although DEGRADE is still included.

Arma 2: Free
In June 2011 Bohemia Interactive released a free-to-play version of Arma 2, featuring full multiplayer compatibility with the retail version of Arma 2. However, the single-player campaign was omitted and players are not able to use high-resolution textures. In 2012, Steam removed ARMA 2: Free from its database. The service eventually was discontinued on 8 April 2014.

 Expansions 

Arma 2: Operation Arrowhead

On 22 April 2010, Bohemia Interactive confirmed that a standalone expansion pack for Arma 2, titled Arma 2: Operation Arrowhead, would be released worldwide on 29 June 2010. According to the site, players will be able to play as members of the United States Army in a fictional region of west-Asia named Takistan, where the terrain is based on Afghanistan. Operation Arrowhead includes three new maps, a variety of new units, vehicles and equipment, as well as the eponymous campaign. Among the new units are a new array of United States Army personnel and vehicles, Czech forces and German KSK units. United Nations peacekeepers are also present as an independent faction.Bohemia Interactive has so far released two downloadable content packs for Operation Arrowhead. The first DLC, titled British Armed Forces, adds units from the British Army, and a new mini-campaign, where players assume the role of a company from the Parachute Regiment operating in Takistan. The second DLC, titled Private Military Company, includes a new campaign, environment, vehicles, and weapons. The third DLC, titled Army of the Czech Republic, added the titular Army of the Czech Republic, a new campaign, vehicles, and weapons.

ReceptionArma 2 received generally positive reviews. The game has been praised for its realism, graphics, and the sheer scale of the game. However, as with the original Armed Assault, the game has received criticism for the number of bugs it contained on release and the quality of the AI. A reviewer at TheReticule.com ultimately felt that though at times it "doesn't work", the game is "a genuinely excellent game of the same pedigree of Operation Flashpoint and has done a lot of [sic] regain my faith in BIS". Another reviewer noted that the game managed to show the "job of a real soldier today: contact with the population", something that is lacking in other similar games The developers have since released several patches addressing common bugs.

In PC Gamer's leaderboard of top 100 greatest PC games of all time, Arma 2 received 22nd place. The game was also awarded by PC Gamer as Most PC Game of the Year for its complexity, community, technical perfection and miracle of simulation.

 Combat footage hoaxes 

On 26 September 2011, ITV broadcast a documentary Exposure: Gaddafi and the IRA, which contained a scene purporting to show Provisional Irish Republican Army fighters shooting down a British military helicopter in 1988; the footage was eventually revealed to be gameplay footage from Arma 2. ITV apologised, blaming human error.

On 26 February 2019, a video was circulated online claiming to depict an Indian Air Force airstrike on a Jaish-e-Mohammed camp. However, the clip was found to originate from Arma 2, being a demonstration of the in-game AH-64 Apache's FLIR gun camera.

Bohemia Interactive is aware of the use of Arma games in military hoaxes. Discussing the ITV documentary with PC Gamer in 2012, Bohemia CEO Marek Španěl stated that he was "surprised" that Arma gameplay could be confused for real footage so easily.