[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# John Solomon Cartwright

d-based centrist government, and excluded the Compact Tories, precisely as Durham had advocated.  The feeling was mutual:  Cartwright and the other Tories generally opposed the measures proposed by Governor General Sydenham in the first session of the Parliament.

Second session of Parliament, 1842 

A year later, the political situation had changed.  Sydenham had died suddenly in September 1841, of tetanus caused by a fall from his horse. The new governor general, Sir Charles Bagot, was appointed in 1842.  Like Sydenham, Bagot tried to put together a ministry that crossed political divisions, including Compact Tories, moderate Tories such as Draper, and even "ultra" Reformers, notably Francis Hincks.

Bagot offered Cartwright the position of solicitor general for Canada West.  Although the Tories respected the new governor general personally, after extensive consultations with his fellow Compact Tories, Cartwright declined the offer, because he could not join a ministry with Hincks, who in his view was a radical Reformer who had given unacceptable support to the leaders of the 1837 rebellions, William Lyon Mackenzie and Louis-Joseph Papineau.  Cartwright's refusal to enter the ministry brought the plan to an end, and had the effect of also excluding Draper, who advised Bagot that in the circumstances he could not join the new ministry.  The net effect was that the governor general felt obliged to form a ministry with the strong Reformers, Robert Baldwin and Louis-Hippolyte Lafontaine, as well as some moderate conservatives.  The new ministry included several French-Canadian members from Canada East under Lafontaine's leadership.

Soon after the second session of Parliament was called, a resolution was introduced in support of the new ministry.  MacNab and Cartwright introduced an amendment to the resolution which, although seen as critical of the new Reform-based ministry, nonetheless approved the inclusion of French-Canadian members in the ministry, stating:  "... it is necessary and proper to invite that large portion of our fellow subjects who are of French origin to share in the Government of their country."  The proposed amendment was defeated, demonstrating how little support the Compact Tories now had.  The Compact Tories, including Cartwright, formed the nucleus of opposition to the new ministry.

Cartwright's approval of French-Canadian members in the ministry was consistent with his political views on the union.  Although he opposed the use of French in the Legislative Assembly and the courts, Cartwright believed that the union could only work if French-Canadians were included in the government.  Writing to Governor General Bagot in 1842, he stated that he was anxious to see the new province function well for all its citizens, and added:  "But I do not see how it can be possible to arrive at this desirable end, without the concert and co-operation of the French Canadians."  He was also highly critical of the conduct of the former governor general, Sydenham, in the first elections for the new Province of Canada the year before.  Sydenham had gerrymandered the seats in French-speaking areas of Lower Canada to favour British voters, personally campaigned for the English party in Lower Canada, and had ignored cases where electoral violence had broken out against French-Canadian candidates, such as Lafointaine.  In his letter to Bagot, Cartwright stated:  "I cannot imagine how it could have ever been supposed that harmony could be produced by an act of the grossest injustice."

Third session of Parliament, 1843

Invitation to join government 

Governor General Bagot died in May 1843, and was replaced by Sir Charles Metcalfe.  A ministerial crisis was looming, as Metcalfe and his two main ministers, Lafontaine and Baldwin, entered a dispute over the appointment of government officials. It resulted in the resignation of the entire Lafontaine-Baldwin ministry in November 1843.  Metcalfe then tried, as Bagot had tried the year before, to assemble a broad-based coalition that would attract general support, while excluding Lafontaine, Baldwin, and the other strong proponents of responsible government.  Metcalfe invited Cartwright to consider joining the government, along with moderate Reformers from Canada West and Canada East.  Cartwright attended some initial meetings, but ultimately did not agree to join the government. The moderate Reformers also refused to enter government, as did  Reformers of Canada East, who continued to support Lafontaine.  The result was that for a year, Metcalfe governed with a ministry of only three members, and did not recall the Legislative Assembly.