[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tuggeranong Homestead

rne but it was soon found that the many interruptions caused by the soldiers returning from the War who were interested in their work made progress very difficult. It was then decided that a peaceful location could be provided at Tuggeranong Homestead which was by this stage owned by the Government.

The team transferred there in October 1919 and remained there until April 1925. The Homestead provided living quarters as well as offices for most of the staff but two of the married men lived with their families in small cottages located about 400 metres away. At the back of the house was a large paddock where the team's horses were kept as well as a few sheep and a cow for milk. Water was pumped from Tuggeranong Creek which ran past one corner of the Homestead.

In later years Charles remembered the peace and tranquillity of the property. He said:

In the country air our nerves were easily refreshed by an hours ride. The garden of Tuggeranong under its beautiful trees became one of the sights of the Capital. In summer we arranged our own daylight saving and had tennis every evening

In 1920 Charles met his future wife Ethel Young a nursing sister at Queanbeyan Hospital when she came to one of the tennis matches. He married her the following year and she also lived at the Homestead.

Besides tennis the team had a passion for cricket and they built a sturdy cricket pitch which still remains today.
 
After they left in 1925 the Homestead stood empty for two years and then in 1927 the property was leased by Timothy McCormack.

The McCormack family

Timothy Joseph McCormack owned Tuggeranong Homestead from 1927 until his death in 1938. He also controlled properties in Crookwell and at Royalla. He was born in 1873 in Wheeo near Crookwell. His father also called Timothy worked on a farming property owned by his grandmother Catherine McCormack who had moved to the Crookwell district as a widow in 1863. His father died in 1882 when Timothy was nine years old. His mother remarried but he continued his association with his father's family at Wheeo.
 
In 1899 he married Mary Kennedy in Crookwell and the wedding was reported in many of the newspapers. Mary was the daughter of William Kennedy of Kialla who was a counsellor of the Crookwell Shire Council. The couple had five children three sons and two daughters. 

In 1927 Timothy leased Tuggeranong and developed a fine grazing property which produced world class merino wool. He also planted cereal crops and improved pastures. The Homestead became a centre for sporting and social events. He also built a racetrack on the property and owned several champion racehorses. A photo of the first race meeting at this track is shown here. Timothy died in 1938 and Tuggeranong continued to be operated by the McCormack family until 1974 when it was compulsorily resumed by the Government for suburban development.

Although Canberra suburbs have been developed on much of the original property the homestead has been preserved on  of surrounding land. The heritage-listed property currently hosts the Tuggeranong Homestead markets, on the first Sunday of every month, and is also a home for the Calwell Scout Group.

External links 
Tuggeranong Homestead
Environment ACT: Tuggeranong Homestead

Related books
Barrow, G (1998). Canberra's Historic Houses. Dagraja Press, ACT. . 
Gillespie, L (1991). Canberra 1820 - 1913. AGPS, ACT. .
Moore, B (1982). The Lanyon Saga. Moore, ACT. .
Lamb, R. (2006). Macquoid of Waniassa: Portrait of a Colonial Sheriff, Waniassa Publications, ACT, .

References

History of the Australian Capital Territory
Homesteads in Canberra
Australian Capital Territory Heritage Register