[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ghorahi

Ghorahi. Many other private and community level hospitals are providing 24-hour service to the dwellers of Rapti region there. Many private hospitals and nursing homes are also under construction. It also has many clinics with highly experienced and qualified doctors.

Some of the hospitals include:

 Rapti Subregional Hospital
 Umashankarnath Memorial Child Hospital
 Deepjyoti Hospital
 Ghorahi Hospital
 Gorkha Hospital
 Chinari Hospital
 Miteri Hospital
 Dental Clinics

Drinking water
More than six different local water management committees are active for the seamless supply of water in the region. An equal number of private water suppliers are also supplying deepwater to selected households in different regions. Recently, water industries are also supplying packaged mineral water in the city. Gorkha Hardware located in the New Road through its various works has been playing important roles for the development of drinking water in Ghorahi.

Sanitation and landfill site
Ghorahi Sub-Metropolitan city has won the title of "Most clean and sanitated city" of Nepal many times. It has managed its sanitation project with a landfill site in its 9th ward; Karautee Danda, with the total area of . Karaute Danda Sanitary Landfill site, owned by the municipal government and located on the western side of the municipality at a distance of  from the city centre.
Karaute Danda Sanitary Landfill Site – Ghorahi.

The LFS is situated in the vicinity of Ghorahi municipality. Specifically, the LFS is in ward 9, approximately  outside the urban area of Ghorahi. The total area of the LFS is  of which  is used for MSW management and the remaining area is reserved for plantations of various trees and other vegetation. The area used for final disposal has recently been increased within the property. The old site for final disposal now serves as an area for plantation. Moreover, on the property, there is a sorting platform on which a unit of nine employees sorts the MSW into paper and plastics. There is also a storage house where these are stored before further distribution (Khanal et al. 2009).  A total of  of waste is produced in the city on a daily basis. Waste produced in the city is collected through one compactor, one tipper, and some rickshaws. A total of thirty people are involved in sanitary field work. It is one of the five municipalities that have managed their Dumping and Sanitary site in Nepal.

Industrial development
Ghorahi has its proposed industrial site in its number 3 and 5 wards with a possibility of industrial development. Dang Industry Commerce Association has started initiating the industrial development in the district. The Industry Commerce Association has said that there is a consensus for making an industrial zone through continuous discussion with the locals and concerned authorities. The land which will be industrialized lies in numbers 3 and 5 wards of the Sub-Metropolitan city. The area of the land to be industrialized is about 500 bighas.
Many cement industries are already in operation. This has minimized quantity of cement imported from India. The cement industries like Ghorahi cement industry and Sonapur cement industry have started their production; a few others are under construction. Ghorahi cement industry is supposed to be the largest cement industry in Nepal. Poultry and Ostrich Farms are also operating in the city. Many small scale and medium scale industries related to poultry are running in this region.

Food and cuisine
Dal Bhat is a popular cuisine among most of the people in the city. It is eaten twice a day: once after breakfast and at night.

Momo, Chowmein, Samosas, and Chaat are famous in the city.