[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Samuel Shute

ernor General Philippe de Rigaud Vaudreuil of New France.  Vaudreuil in response pointed out that although France claimed sovereignty over the area, the Wabanakis maintained ownership, and suggested that Shute misunderstood the way in which ideas of European and Native American ownership interacted.

The raid on Norridgewock and the fortification of the Maine coast brought a predictable response: the Wabanakis went to war, raiding British settlements on the Maine coast in 1722 and seizing shipping vessels off Nova Scotia.  On July 25, 1722, Shute formally declared war on the Wabanakis, marking a formal start to the conflict often referred to as Dummer's War, since Lieutenant Governor William Dummer would end up conducting the Massachusetts involvement in the war.

Decision to leave
Under the leadership of Cooke and others of the "country party", the assembly investigated the province's expenditures. Finding that some payments of militia had been made fraudulently, the assembly was able to introducing spending bills that very precisely delineated how public funds could be spent; this represented an increase the assembly's power at the expense of the governor. The assembly further encroached on the governor's authority by establishing a committee to oversee the activities of the militia in December 1722. With the Indian war looming, Shute saw this as a serious threat to his power, and decided that only by returning to London would he be able to correct the situation.  Not long after Christmas 1722 Shute sailed for England.

Later years and legacy

Upon his arrival in London, Shute presented his many issues to the Privy Council. His opponents were represented by Jeremiah Dummer and Elisha Cooke, the former having long served as colonial agent in London, and the latter being chosen by the assembly to put forward its case.  Shute's arguments were accepted by the council, and only the diplomacy of Dummer convinced the council not to revoke the colonial charter.  In 1725 the council issued an explanatory colonial charter confirming Shute's position on the adjournment issue and the approval of the house speaker, which the provincial assembly reluctantly accepted the following year.  Shute was preparing to return to Massachusetts in 1727 when King George I died. This brought about a change of administration in London and a reshuffling of colonial governorships. The Massachusetts and New Hampshire governorships were given to William Burnet, then the governor of New York and New Jersey, and Shute was given a pension.  Burnet's brief administration was dominated by an extended attempt by the governor to secure an annual salary. The sudden death of Burnet in 1729 again opened the Massachusetts and New Hampshire seats. Shute was apparently considered again for the post, but demurred, implicitly offering his support instead to Jonathan Belcher, who was actively seeking the post.

Shute, who never married, died in England on Apr. 10, 1743.  Shutesbury, Massachusetts is named in his honor.

Notes

References

 (five volume history of Massachusetts until the early 20th century)

External links

1662 births
1742 deaths
Colonial governors of Massachusetts
Colonial governors of New Hampshire
English emigrants to Massachusetts Bay Colony
Leiden University alumni
British military personnel of the War of the Spanish Succession
British military personnel of the Nine Years' War