[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Ministry of Environment (South Korea)

anagement System encourages effective management of air pollution in places of business through a quota system. However, the two systems put economic burdens on companies. Therefore, the government has come up with measures to reduce such burdens without undermining the effectiveness of the systems.

First of all, improvements made on Total Air Pollution Load Management System include:
 the allocation of the quota on dust has been suspended as it is difficult to set the quota because dust varies in types and characteristics.
 currently the government is going to exclude Type 3 plants (mid-sized plants) from the system by revising relevant laws as those plants emit few air pollutants.

Next, some changes were made on TMS System as follows:
 Installing and managing TMS device is expensive. So the government has decided not to impose the Basic Emission Charge, which is determined according to the amount of air pollutants emitted.
 if companies exceed their quota unavoidably for a short period of time due to problems with their production system, they are exempted from administrative penalties.
 the government will provide financial support to small- and medium-sized companies from 2009 for installing and managing TMS devices.

Condominiums and cable cars in natural parks 

Heavy restrictions have been put on land development in protected areas and on historic sites designated as natural parks for public interest. However, building tourist facilities such as accommodation was also limited, causing inconveniences to local residents and visitors.
Constructing condominiums in natural parks has been restricted since early 1990, because such buildings could lead to a sense of inequality among different social classes. But recent surveys on local residents near natural parks and the general public showed that the majority of respondents were in favor of building condominiums in natural parks. And the demand for tourism has been increasing since the introduction of a 5-day workweek system. For these reasons, the government decided to lift restrictions on building condominiums in natural parks.
Also, the government has eased regulations on establishing cable cars in natural parks. In the latter half of 2009, limits on distance will be lowered from 2 km to 5 km, which will lead to more cable cars in natural parks. Such deregulation will enable more convenient trips for visitors and attract investment from the private sector for local development.

Toxicity of new chemicals 

In Korea, manufacturers or importers of new chemicals are required to get toxicity examination on the chemicals by submitting a document on toxicity issued by certified laboratories. Certified laboratories were limited to domestic organizations only, so companies that had examination documents issued by overseas laboratories could not use their documents.

To resolve this, the government altered laws in June 2008 so that certified laboratories include laboratories in OECD countries. That reduced costs and time for drawing up examination documents, and laid the foundation for improved management of harmful chemicals through mutual recognition of test data with OECD countries.

If companies produce or import a small amount of new chemicals, or new chemicals are embedded in machines or equipment, it is not necessary to conduct a toxicity examination. Those companies or chemicals are given exemption from toxicity examinations, which reduces the time it takes to produce or import such chemicals.

List of ministers

See also
 Environment of South Korea

References

External links

Official English-language site
Ministry of Environment 
Environmental Impact Assessment Support System (EIASS) 

Environment
Nature conservation in South Korea
South Korea
Pollution in South Korea
1994 establishments in South Korea