[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of retronyms

sene lamps and electric lamps in the 19th century, all lamps were oil lamps.
 Old Nintendo 3DS  Used to refer to the original models of the Nintendo 3DS before the release of the New Nintendo 3DS in 2014.
 Old Labour : Term used in the 1990s and 2000s to refer to the policies the UK Labour Party was perceived to have held before Tony Blair's leadership, policies previously referred to simply as "Labour".
 Old Look: A type of transit bus, which gained this name after the introduction of the New Look bus. Both were made by GM
 Old Testament: In the Jewish tradition, the Hebrew Bible is known as the Tanakh.
 Open captions : After the introduction of closed caption decoders in the early 1980's and before decoder chips in TV sets became standard in the mid-1990's, TV stations would occasionally add captions to broadcasts which were visible to everyone and could not be turned off, as was done in the 1970's.
 Open sewer : Before enclosed pipes, or underground corridors for sewers came along, all sewers were open.  For instance, the open sewers in the Middle Ages was largely responsible for The Black Death.
 Optical zoom : The advent of digital cameras (and accompanying digital zoom) necessitated this retronym, describing the "analog" method of achieving close-up using a zoom lens.
 Opposite-sex marriage : coined after the advent of same-sex marriage.
 Organic farming, organic food : Farming practiced without the use of artificial fertilizers, pesticides, and so forth; and the food so produced.
 Over-the-board chess (also OTB chess) : Chess played in real time using a physical chessboard, as opposed to computer chess or correspondence chess.

 Overground train: Used in the UK to refer to trains that run above ground throughout, as opposed to Underground trains which only run partly overground. (The key distinction is that "Overground" trains are not fully integrated into the Underground system.)
 Paid-for sales, pure sales: since the introduction of streaming into chart compilation, with (as in the UK Singles Chart) a certain number of streams often being added together to make a streaming sale, traditional sales of music (whether in physical or digital format) are now often referred to by these terms.Pai Gow tiles  : Before pai gow poker was created in 1985, the original game with dominoes was simply called pai gow. Pai gow poker is significantly more popular than pai gow played with dominoes so this qualifier is used.Paleoconservative : Before the advent of the neoconservative movement in the 1970s and its breakthrough success in the 1990s, American conservatism was largely defined by what would be referred to in the 2000s (decade) as paleoconservatism.Pararescue jumper : The term Pararescue jumper is a retronym of the initials "PJ", which were used on Air Force Form 5 (Aircrew Flight Log) to identify anyone on board in order to jump from the aircraft. Pararescuemen originally had no "in flight" duties, and were listed only as "PJ" on the Form 5. The Pararescue position eventually grew to include duties as an aerial gunner and scanner on rotary wing aircraft, a duty now performed by aerial gunners. Currently, aircrew qualified Pararescuemen are recorded using aircrew position identifier "J" ("Pararescue Member") on AFTO form 781.Paper book: E-books being commoner by the day, it is now necessary to distinguish books printed on paper from books distributed in a digital form.Paper copy, hard copy : With the proliferation of exchange of documents in the form of electronic files, physical copies of documents acquired this retronym. Occasionally extended to the copying devices; i.e. paper copiers. The jocular substitute dead-tree copy is sometimes used.
 Parallel ATA (PATA) : The original ATA interface was parallel; the qualification became necessary when Serial ATA was introduced.
 Peanut butter : Prior to the invention of homogenized peanut butter in the 1920s, all peanut butter was old fashioned or natural, the oil separated and the product required stirring before use. In addition, all peanut butter was creamy or smooth prior to invention of crunchy or chunky peanut butter in the 1920s.
 Permanent magnet : Used for an object that is permanently magnetized rather than an electromagnet.
 Physical media (data transfer) : Refers to the transmission of data over wires, such as copper cables, fibre optic or coaxial cable, as opposed to wireless communication.
 Physical media (media storage) : Refers to the storage of data on physical objects, such as paper, photographs, video tapes, or optical disks, as opposed to cloud storage or streaming media.
 Physical single : After the coming of the legal music download, this term became commonplace to refer to a vinyl, CD or cassette single, which would previously have been referred to simply as a "single".
 Pickup truck : Before SUVs (often referred to as "trucks") were introduced, pickup trucks were those on a sturdy frame with high ground clearance. The term SUV was not coined