[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Mediatization (media)

ng or mandatory license payments are vulnerable to political pressure from the incumbent government. Some media are protected from political pressure through strong charters and arms-length oversight organizations, while those with weaker protection are more influenced by pressure from 
politicians.

The public service broadcasters in several European countries initially had monopoly on broadcasting, but the strict regulation was relaxed in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Competition from commercial radio and TV stations had a strong impact on the public service broadcasters. 
In Greece, the new competition from commercial TV led to lower quality and less diversity, contrary to the expectation of the economists. The contents of the public channels became similar to the commercial channels with less news and more 
entertainment. 
In the Netherlands, diversity of TV programs increased in periods with moderate competition, but decreased in periods with ruinous competition.
In Denmark, the degree of dependence on advertising and private investors influenced the amount of trivialization, but even a publicly financed advertisement-free TV channel became more trivialized as a result of competition with commercial channels. 
In Finland, the government has avoided ruinous competition by strict regulation of the TV market. The result is more diversity.

Sociocultural change 
The concept of mediatization is focusing not only on media effects but on the interrelation between the change of media communication on the one hand and sociocultural changes on the other. Some aspects of sociocultural change are reviewed in the following sections.

Crime, disaster, and fear 
It is a common adage that fear sells. News media are often using fearmongering to attract readers, listeners, and viewers. 
Stories about crime, disaster, dangerous diseases, etc. have a prominent place in many news media. 
Historically, the tabloid newspapers have relied quite a lot on crime news in order to make customers buy today's 
newspaper. 
This strategy has been copied by the electronic media, especially when competition is 
fierce.

The news media have often created moral panics by exaggerating minor social problems or even completely imaginary dangers 
as seen, for example, in the satanic cult scare.

The scare stories may have political consequences, even if the media have only economic motives. Politicians often implement draconian laws and tough on crime policies because they feel compelled to react to the perceived dangers.

In a larger perspective, the high affinity of many news media for crime and disaster has led to a culture of fear where people are taking unnecessary precautions against minor or unlikely dangers while they pay less attention to the much higher risks of, for example, lifestyle diseases or traffic accidents.

Psychologists fear that the heavy exposure to crime and disaster in the media is fostering a mean world syndrome causing depression, anxiety, and 
anger. 
The perception of the world as a dangerous place may lead to authoritarian submission, conformism, and aggression against minorities according to the theory of 
right-wing authoritarianism.

The culture of fear may have a strong influence on the whole culture and political climate. A widespread perception of collective danger can push the culture and politics in the direction of authoritarianism, intolerance, and bellicosity, according to regality theory. This is an unintended consequence of the economic competition between the news media.

Law enforcement agencies have learned to cooperate with the mass media to dramatize crime in order to promote their own agenda.

It is often suspected that politicians actively take advantage of the media's proclivity for fearmongering in order to promote a particular agenda. Warnings about possible terror attacks have increased public support for the US 
president, 
and the fearful sentiments after the September 11 terror attacks have been used to garner support for the wars in Afghanistan and 
Iraq.

Democracy and news media 
A democracy can only function properly if voters are well informed about candidates and political issues. It is generally assumed that the news media are serving the function of informing voters. However, since the late 20'th century there has been a growing concern that voters may be poorly informed because the news media are focusing more on entertainment and gossip and less on serious journalistic research on political 
issues.

The media professors Michael Gurevitch and Jay Blumler have proposed a number of functions that the mass media are expected to fulfill in a democracy: