[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ernest Titterton

36 with distinctions in both pure and applied mathematics and, of course, physics. An honours year quickly followed, and Titterton topped the year in physics. He continued his interest in music, playing the piano at social events. He also played hockey with the university First XI from 1934 to 1936.

In 1937, Ernest was presented with a £92 university scholarship, and worked in a research position under Mark Oliphant, the chairman of the physics department. The scholarship was insufficient to cover his living expenses, so he lived at home and commuted by bus and train. The project he shared with another student was to determine if the weak alpha particle activity of samarium was due to the electron or gamma ray components of cosmic rays. The work had to be carried out in a coal mine,  below the surface. Upon completion of these experiments, Titterton was awarded a Master of Science degree in 1938. As a requirement of his scholarship, Ernest was required to become a teacher for a year. This met with a lukewarm reception, but he graduated with his Diploma in Education, and was even awarded the Elizabeth Cadbury Prize for achieving top marks in the class. As part of his training, he taught at King Edward's School, Birmingham. To support himself, he also taught three nights a week at Birmingham Central Technical College. With his diploma in hand, he became a teacher at Bridgnorth Endowed School, a coeducational secondary school and sixth form located in the market town of Bridgnorth in the rural county of Shropshire.

After a call from Oliphant, who wanted to develop a 10 cm wavelength radiation generator, Titterton worked as a research officer with the British Admiralty for the early part of the Second World War, working on radar systems at the University of Birmingham. He was awarded a PhD in physics in 1941. Though the work was classed top secret, he was allowed to submit it. His examiners were the nuclear physicists John Cockcroft and Philip Dee, both of whom were engaged in work on radar at that time. He also carried out some research with Otto Frisch. The two noted spontaneous fission in uranium, but were unable to publish due to wartime security restrictions. Credit for the discovery therefore went to  Georgy Flyorov and Konstantin Petrzhak, who discovered it independently in 1940. While at the University of Birmingham, Titterton  met Peggy Eileen Johnson, a laboratory assistant, who helped him build a prototype spark gap generator. They were married on 19 September 1942 at St John the Baptist in Hagley, Worcestershire.

Nuclear research 

In 1943, a British mission was sent to the United States to assist the American Manhattan Project in developing atomic bombs. First to arrive at the Los Alamos Laboratory were Frisch and Titterton, on 13 December 1943. The two shared an office at first, but were soon working on different projects. Titterton worked in collaboration with the American physicist Boyce McDaniel in Robert R. Wilson's P-1 (Cyclotron) Group. Together, they searched for delays between nuclear fission and the emission of prompt neutrons. A sizeable delay could make a nuclear chain reaction impractical. They calculated that most were emitted in less than 1 nanosecond; subsequent experiments demonstrated that fission took less than a nanosecond too.

Titterton then became involved with timing circuits used to track the progress of an implosion. Along with Frisch, Darol Froman, Rudolf Peierls, Philip Moon and Alvin C. Graves, he developed the "pin method". Pins were placed near the implosion and connected to circuits which connected to an oscilloscope. This gave accurate timing of the implosion, from which its symmetry could be evaluated. It turned out to be the most useful of several methods of timing the implosion. When the director, Robert Oppenheimer, reorganised the Los Alamos Laboratory to focus on implosion in August 1944, Titterton joined Kenneth Greisen's X-1A Section in Norris Bradbury's X-1 (Implosion) Group. The group studied the timing of the primacord detonations using X-rays. Titterton designed a circuit for measuring the spread of detonations using a variation of the pin method. He developed a device called "the informer" that measured the time spread among detonations (and whether all the detonators had indeed fired). In July 1945 he was a senior member of the timing group at the Trinity nuclear test that fired the first nuclear weapon at Alamogordo, New Mexico. His electronic timers tracked the progress of the detonation. In February 1946, he became the head of the P-1 (Electronics) Group. He participated in the Operation Crossroads nuclear tests at Bikini Atoll, and performed the countdown for both tests.