[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Royal Naval Dockyard, Bermuda

lease destroyers from the United States for the Royal Navy and Royal Canadian Navy), the Fleet Air Arm stationed a target-towing squadron at Bermuda, operating at first from Boaz Island and from 1943 also from the United States Army's Kindley Field, towing targets for anti-aircraft gunnery training.

Although Bermuda was a naval base, her warships were normally spread far-and-wide across the Atlantic, unable to protect the base or the colony. Early in the war German battleships, operating as commerce raiders, created some concern of Bermuda's vulnerability to naval bombardment (especially when Convoy HX 84 – which included ships from Bermuda – was attacked by the  in November 1940), but the island was never attacked, and the threat of German surface vessels and their aircraft quickly faded.

Bermuda was to provide the namesakes for three other Royal Naval vessels, other than HMS Castle Harbour, during the War, specifically the cruiser HMS Bermuda, the destroyer HMS Hamilton, and HMS Queen of Bermuda, a pre-war luxury liner taken-up from trade and commissioned as an armed merchant cruiser.

Redesignation from dockyard to naval base

After the Second World War, with the former primary threat in the region, the United States, having been an ally in both World Wars, and a continuing ally under NATO, the naval base in Bermuda diminished rapidly in importance to the Admiralty.

The US Navy had operated from a base on White's Island (officially listed as its Base 24), in Hamilton Harbour during the last year of the First World War, servicing submarine hunters which travelled across the Atlantic to the European theatre of conflict in convoys of one to two dozen vessels. Many of these vessels had also made use of the Royal Navy's facilities at HM Dockyard. In addition to White's Island, the United States operated a supply station on the British Army's formerly secret munitions depot, Agar's Island. Both US facilities were closed following the cessation of hostilities.

During the Second World War, the United States had been permitted to build a US Naval Operating Base (serving both ships and seaplanes) and a US Army airfield in the colony under free 99-year leases. This had been agreed and set into motion before the US had actually entered the war, but (along with the establishment of a US Army garrison with artillery and infantry elements) had the effect of placing most of the responsibility for guarding Bermuda into American hands, thereby freeing British forces to be redeployed elsewhere.

With little remaining interest in policing the world's waterways, and with the American bases to guard Bermuda in any potential war with the Warsaw Pact or other enemies, the Royal Navy closed most of the Dockyard facilities in 1958 (a process which had begun with the removal of the large floating drydock, AFD 5, in 1951 (the smaller AFD 48 remained)), with most of the Admiralty's landholdings in Bermuda (along with all of the British Army's properties) being transferred to the local government for £750,000.

The South Yard of the Dockyard itself was retained as HM Naval Base, Bermuda, commissioned as HMS Malabar (see below). It continued to be the base of the North America and West Indies Station, with the Commander-in-Chief, America and West Indies Station, at the Admiralty House, Bermuda, until 29 October 1956, when the position was abolished, leaving the Commodore West Indies as the Senior Royal Navy officer in the region, reporting directly to the Commander-in-Chief, Home Fleet, in England. A diminishing number of station frigates was subsequently based at Bermuda until the 1970s, although the base was no longer capable of carrying out repairs to vessels based there.

HMS Malabar and SNOWI

The 1951 closure of the dockyard was actually a reduction of its status to a base, with the disposal of most Admiralty land holdings in Bermuda. The South Yard Berthing Area continued to be maintained as a base, under the command of the Resident Naval Officer (RNO), for the squadron of the America and West Indies Station (which ceased to be a separate station with the 1956 abolishment of the Commander-in-Chief America and West Indies, though the diminishing squadron remained based in Bermuda until the 1970s) but, no longer equipped with a drydock, ships based at Bermuda needing major repairs or refit were obliged to cross the Atlantic to Portsmouth). The base was nameless until commissioned as HMS Malabar on 1 June 1965 (it was also designated HM Naval Base Bermuda (HMNB Bermuda)), until it, too, closed in 1995, following the end of the Cold War. The closure of HMS Malabar marked the end of 200 years of permanent Royal Naval establishment in Bermuda.