[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Man Who Could Work Miracles

lonel Winstanley's Butler
Wallace Lupino as Police Constable Winch (billed as Wally Lupino)
Joan Hickson as Effie Brickman
Wally Patch as Police Superintendent Smithelle
Mark Daly as Toddy Beamish
Ivan Brandt as Player (a god)
George Sanders as Indifference (a god)
Torin Thatcher as Observer (a god)

Reception
In The Spectator in 1936, Graham Greene summarized the film as "a muddle" and commented that "the whole entertainment, sometimes fake poetry, sometimes unsuccessful comedy, sometimes farce, sometimes sociological discussion, [is] without a spark of creative talent or a trace of film ability." Greene criticized the direction and production as "shocking [with] slowness, vulgarity, [and] over-emphasis," the casting and characterization as "quite the wrong type," the special effects as "grimly repetitive, [...] dull and unconvincing and [apt to] destroy illusion" and Wells' original story as "pretentious."

Writing in The New York Times, Frank Nugent noted "a delightfully humorous fantasy with an undertone of sober Wellsian philosophy," praising Roland Young's performance as having "described the character perfectly, drawing him as a fumbling little man with a rabbity soul, a limited imagination and other characteristic human frailties and virtues" and concluding that "Lothar Mendes's direction has achieved a sound balance between the jocund and the profound. Mr. Wells, in brief, is doing well in his new medium."

See also
 Things to Come

References

External links 
 
 
 

The Man Who Could Work Miracles: short story by H. G. Wells
Streaming audio
The Man Who Could Work Miracles on Escape: 31 December 1950
The Man Who Could Work Miracles on Theatre Royal: 16 June 1954
The Man Who Could Work Miracles on CBS Radio Mystery Theater: 26 August 1976

1937 films
1930s fantasy comedy films
British fantasy comedy films
British black-and-white films
Films about wish fulfillment
Films based on science fiction short stories
Films based on works by H. G. Wells
London Films films
Films directed by Lothar Mendes
Films produced by Alexander Korda
Films with screenplays by H. G. Wells
1937 comedy films
1930s English-language films
1930s British films
English-language fantasy comedy films