[Source: PubMed]

48. J Affect Disord. 2021 Jul 1;290:93-101. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2021.04.072. Epub 
2021 May 1.

Unraveling specifics of mental health symptoms in war survivors who fled versus 
stayed in the area of conflict using network analysis.

Schlechter P(1), Hellmann JH(2), Morina N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom. Electronic 
address: ps798@medschl.cam.ac.uk.
(2)University of Münster, Germany.

BACKGROUND: War survivors often report symptoms of post-traumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD), depression, anxiety, and somatization. Hence, understanding 
symptom constellations among different populations of war survivors is critical.
METHODS: Using the network approach to psychopathology, we examined symptom 
centrality for these conditions in war survivors from Balkan countries who had 
stayed in the area of former conflict compared to those individuals from Balkan 
countries who had fled to Western European countries (N = 4,167) with the Impact 
of Events Scale-Revised and the Brief Symptom Inventory. We further compared 
networks for war survivors who met criteria for PTSD-diagnosis (assessed with 
the MINI-International Neuropsychiatric Interview) to those without 
PTSD-diagnosis.
RESULTS: Globally, networks were similar across the groups, whereas specific 
differences emerged in symptom centrality. More consistencies were found between 
PTSD and Western country networks, which may be partially explained by a higher 
prevalence of PTSD in those who had fled to Western European than in those who 
had stayed in the Balkan countries.
LIMITATIONS: Given the cross-sectional nature of our data, the directionality of 
edges in our networks remains unclear. Further, higher levels of trauma exposure 
and symptom severity in Western country participants may have confounded 
results.
CONCLUSIONS: The PTSD findings are in line with previous research on PTSD 
symptoms. They further provide novel insights into depressive, anxiety, and 
somatization symptoms in survivors of war. These findings need to be 
substantiated and call for future intervention studies that test the effects of 
targeting central symptoms we identified in our study.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2021.04.072
PMID: 33993086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]