[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Right-libertarianism

nce to what they see as libertarian principles, scored 150 (out of 380 rated) representatives as "A-" or above rated representatives. Participants also engage with other like-minded activist groups such as Rebuild New Hampshire, Young Americans for Liberty, and Americans for Prosperity.

 Criticism 

Criticism of right-libertarianism includes ethical, economic, environmental, pragmatic and philosophical concerns,Sterba, James P. (October 1994). "From Liberty to Welfare". Ethics. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Blackwell. 105 (1): 237–241. including the view that it has no explicit theory of liberty. It has been argued that laissez-faire'' capitalism does not necessarily produce the best or most efficient outcome, nor does its philosophy of individualism and policies of deregulation prevent the abuse of natural resources.

Use of the NAP as a justification for right-libertarianism has been criticized as circular reasoning and as a rhetorical obfuscation of the coercive nature of right-libertarian property law enforcement, with critics arguing that the principle redefines aggression in their own terms.

Jeffrey H. Reiman criticized right-libertarians' support of private property, arguing that "the holders of large amounts of property have great power to dictate the terms upon which others work for them and thus in effect the power to 'force' others to be resources for them".

See also 

 Anarchism and capitalism
 Anarcho-capitalism
 Capitalism
 Conservative liberalism
 Constitutionalism
 Criticism of democracy
 Debates within libertarianism
 Egalitarianism
 Fiscal conservatism
 Free banking
 Free market
 Freedom of association
 Issues in anarchism
 Labor mobility
 Libertarianism
 Libertarianism in South Africa
 Libertarianism in the United Kingdom
 Market fundamentalism
 Objectivist movement
 Outline of libertarianism
 Patriot movement
 Republican Liberty Caucus
 Sovereign citizen movement

References

Bibliography

External links

 
Libertarianism
Libertarianism
Libertarianism
Libertarianism by form
Libertarianism in the United States