[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Samuel Gibbs French

ril 26, 1853. Together they had a daughter and a son who died in childbirth along with Eliza on June 13, 1857. French was married again to Mary Fontaine Abercrombie of Alabama on 12 January 1865 but she too died, on 16 May 1900 at Atlanta, Georgia. Together they had three children.

Death and legacy

French died in Florala, Alabama on April 20, 1910 while visiting his son and was interred at St. John's Cemetery in Pensacola. For the burial, his body was wrapped in both the American and the Confederate flags. His family placed a cenotaph for him in the family plot in Laurel Hill Cemetery in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

During the Civil War, Fort French near Wilmington, North Carolina and Camp French near Quantico, Virginia were named in his honor.

During World War II, the Liberty ship  was built in Panama City, Florida, and named in his honor.

There is a bust and marker of French in the National Military Park, Vicksburg, Mississippi.

Bibliography
Two Wars: an Autobiography of Gen. Samuel G. French, An Officer in the Armies of the United States and the Confederate States, A Graduate from the U.S. Military Academy, West Point 1843., Confederate Veteran, Nashville, Tenn., 1901

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

References
Citations

Sources

External links

 CivilWarTalk.com - Samuel Gibbs French
Ironbrigadier.com - Samuel Gibbs French: a Northern-Born Confederate General
 The Civil War & Reconstruction Governors of Mississippi - Samuel G. French correspondence

1818 births
1910 deaths
19th-century American railroad executives
20th-century American male writers
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
American planters
Burials in Florida
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
Confederate States Army major generals
Members of the Aztec Club of 1847
Northern-born Confederates
Military personnel from Columbus, Georgia
People from Greenville, Mississippi
People from Harrison Township, New Jersey
People from Pensacola, Florida
People from Winter Park, Florida
People from Woodbury, New Jersey
People of Mississippi in the American Civil War
People of New Jersey in the American Civil War
Pro-Confederate writers
United States Military Academy alumni
Writers from New Jersey
Neo-Confederates