[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fire lookout tower

locations, the check out time is enforced when the fire lookout operator returns for duty, and takes over the cab for the day shift.

Fire lookout towers are an important part of American history and several organizations have been founded to save, rebuild, restore, and operate fire lookout towers.

Germany
Starting in 2002, traditional fire watch was replaced by "FireWatch", optical sensors located on old lookout towers or mobile phone masts. Based on a system developed by the DLR for analyzing gases and particles in space, a terrestrial version for forest fire smoke detection was developed by DLR and IQ Wireless. Currently, about 200 of these sensors are installed around Germany, while similar systems have been deployed in other European countries, Mexico, Kazakhstan and the USA.

Canada

Several Canadian provinces have fire lookout towers. Dorset, Ontario's Scenic Tower was built   on site of former fire lookout tower (1922-1962).

Types

Wooden towers
Many fire lookout towers are simply cabs that have been fitted to large railroad water tank towers that are  high. One of the last wooden fire lookout towers in Southern California was the South Mount Hawkins Fire Lookou, in the Angeles National Forest. A civilian effort is underway to rebuild the tower after its loss in the Curve Fire of September 2002.

The typical cab of a wooden tower can be from  to 
 Example — South Mount Hawkins before the fire
 Example — Boucher Hill Lookout, Palomar Mountain State Park, San Diego CA

Steel towers
Steel towers can vary in size and height. They are very sturdy, but tend to sway in the wind more than wooden towers.

The typical cab of a steel tower can be from  to 
 Example — Los Pinos Lookout, Cleveland National Forest, San Diego CA
 Example — Red Mountain Lookout, San Bernardino National Forest, Riverside CA
 Example — High Point Lookout, Cleveland National Forest, Palomar Mountain, San Diego CA
 Example — Mount Lofty Fire Tower, South Australia

Aermotors
The Aermotor Company, originally of Chicago, Illinois, was the first and lead manufacturer of steel fire towers from the 1910s to the mid-1920s. These towers have very small cabs, as the towers are based on Aermotor windmill towers. These towers are often found in the U.S. Midwest and South, but a few are in the mountainous West. In the northeast, all of the towers in the Adirondack Mountains and most in the Catskills were Aermotor towers erected between 1916 and 1921.

The typical cab of an Aermoter had a  cab with a fire locating device mounted in the center. Access was by way of a trap door in the floor.

 Lakota Peak Lookout
 Summit Ridge Lookout
 The Fire Towers of New York
 Example — Adirondack Towers

Ground cabs

Ground cabs are still known as "towers" even though there may be no such tower under the cab. These towers can be one, two or three stories tall with foundations made of natural stone or concrete. These towers vary greatly in size, but many are simple wooden or steel tower cabs that were constructed using the same plans, sans the tower.
 Example — Tahquitz Peak Lookout
 Example — Winchester Mountain Lookout
 Example — Mt. Tamalpais Lookout in California

Lookout trees
The simplest kind consist of a ladder to a suitable height. Such trees could have platforms on the ground next to them for maps and a fire finder. A more elaborate version, such as the Gloucester tree in Australia, added a permanent platform to the tree by building a wooden or, later, metal structure at the top of the tree, with metal spikes hammered into the trunk to form a spiral ladder. These 'platform trees' were often equipped with telephones, fire finder tables, seats and guy-wires.

Other types
There are many different types of lookouts. In the early days, the fire lookout operator simply climbed a denuded tree and sat on a  platform chair atop that tree. An old fishing boat was once dragged to the top of a high hill and used as a fire lookout tower. Very little is known about the horse-mounted fire lookout, but they, too, rode the ridges patrolling the forest for smoke.

Records

 Tallest lookout tower in the world: Warren Bicentennial Tree Lookout, Western Australia — .
 Tallest all-steel lookout tower in the world: Beard Tower,  SE of Manjimup, Western Australia — .
 Tallest lookout tower in the U.S.: Woodworth Tower, Alexandria, Louisiana — .
 Highest lookout site in the world: Fairview Peak,  NE of Gunnison, Colorado — .
 Lowest lookout sites in the world: Pine Island L.O., Florida & Evans Pines L.O., Florida — .

Countries continuing to use fire lookout towers

 Australia
 Belgium
 Brazil
 Canada (Alberta, B.C., Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Saskatchewan)
 France
 Germany
 Greece
 Indonesia
 Israel
 Italy
 Latvia
 Mexico
 New Zealand
 Norway
 Poland
 Portugal
 South Africa
 Spain
 Turkey
 United States
 Uruguay