[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Kite Runner (film)

tion and Culture minister said: "It showed the ethnic groups of Afghanistan in a bad light. We respect freedom of speech, we support freedom of speech, but unfortunately we have difficulties in Afghan society, and if this film is shown in the cinemas, it is humiliating for one of our ethnic groups."

For their work on the movie, Zekeria Ebrahimi (young Amir) and Mahmoodzada were initially paid $17,500 (£9,000) each, and Ali Danish $13,700 (£7,000).  Arguments were later made that the boys were underpaid.  Additionally, Ebrahimi has said, "We want to study in the United States. It's a modern country and more safe than here in Kabul. If I became rich here I would be worried about security. It's dangerous to have money because of the kidnapping." Paramount relocated the two child actors, as well M. Ali Danish Bakhtyari (Sohrab) and another child actor with a minor role as Omar, to the United Arab Emirates. The studio reportedly accepted responsibility for the boys' living expenses until they reached adulthood, a cost some estimated at up to $500,000.

After four months in Dubai, Ebrahimi and his aunt returned to Kabul in March 2008.  After receiving threats on his life, Ebrahimi was forced to remain indoors and be home-schooled by an uncle. He has since claimed that he wishes he had never appeared in the movie. Mahmoodzada stayed in Dubai for two years but returned to Kabul because his other family members could not get a visa to join him. Back home, he was continuously targeted by both the Hazara Shia's (for portraying them as a weak community) and by Pashtun Sunni (for portraying them as bad and cruel). The repeated humiliation resulted in Mahmoodzada—with the help of human smugglers—moving to Sweden; as of 2017, he was living in Borlänge.

Awards and nominations

References

External links

 
 
 
 
 
 "A North Hollywood kite fighter's lofty dream", story of the film's kite master (Los Angeles Times)
 Kite Runner flies into controversy
 16 Days in Afghanistan listed as a reference film in Kite Runner's Study guide

2007 drama films
2007 films
American drama films
DreamWorks Pictures films
Films about atonement
Paramount Pictures films
Films set in Afghanistan
Films about immigration
Films based on American novels
Films directed by Marc Forster
Films set in Pakistan
Films set in Peshawar
Films set in the 1970s
Films set in the 1980s
Films set in the 1990s
Films set in the San Francisco Bay Area
Films shot in China
Films shot in Pakistan
2000s Persian-language films
Paramount Vantage films
Soviet–Afghan War films
Participant (company) films
Sidney Kimmel Entertainment films
Films about rape
Dari-language films
Films scored by Alberto Iglesias
Films produced by Walter F. Parkes
Films with screenplays by David Benioff
Films about refugees
Films about child sexual abuse
Works about kite flying
2000s English-language films
2007 multilingual films
American multilingual films
2000s American films

ja:君のためなら千回でも#映画