[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Orlando Metcalfe Poe

Orlando Metcalfe Poe (March 7, 1832 – October 2, 1895) was a United States Army officer and engineer in the American Civil War. After helping General William Tecumseh Sherman's March to the Sea, he was responsible for much of the early lighthouse construction on the Great Lakes and design of the Poe Lock at Soo Locks between lakes Superior and Huron.

Early life
Orlando Metcalfe Poe was born in the midwestern city of Navarre, Ohio located in the Tuscarawas River valley. His parents were Charles Poe and Susannah Warner and he was the first of their five children. After going to local schools, he attended the United States Military Academy, graduating sixth in his class in 1856. From then until 1861 he served as an assistant topographical engineer on the survey of the northern Great Lakes; during this time he was promoted to first lieutenant.

Notable ancestors
Poe's great-great-grandparents were Catherine and George Jacob Pfau.  They were of Palatine German descent, and their sons were the first to Anglicize their surname to Poe following the American Revolutionary War. The Pfau family migrated to Ohio from central western Maryland near modern day Camp David, where George and Catherine Pfau originally settled. Pfau's sons Adam and Andrew were noted for their skirmishes with Native Americans in southern Beaver County, Ohio. Both men were known as fearless fighters. The first Andrew Poe is reputed to have slain the Wyandot Indian Chief Bigfoot in 1781.  The brothers’ exploits were detailed in volume II of Theodore Roosevelt’s book, The Winning of the West from the Alleghenies to the Mississippi, 1777 - 1783. 

Poe was a second cousin of the painter Andrew Jackson Poe. He also had English heritage from Metcalfe ancestors.

Civil War service
At the start of the American Civil War, Poe assisted in organizing the volunteers from Ohio; later, he was made a member of Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan's staff in western Virginia and took part in the Rich Mountain campaign. He went with McClellan to Washington and assisted by organizing the defense of the capital. Promoted to colonel of volunteers that September, he was placed in command of the 2nd Michigan Volunteer Infantry Regiment. He commanded them successfully from Yorktown through the Battle of Seven Pines during the Peninsula Campaign; he next was given field command of a brigade prior to the Northern Virginia Campaign of 1862. His brigade anchored the far right of the Union line at the August 29–30 battle of Second Bull Run but was only lightly engaged. Several days later on September 1, Poe and his men participated in the Battle of Chantilly. His brigade was present, but not active during the December 1862 Battle of Fredericksburg.

Poe was appointed brigadier general of volunteers effective November 29, 1862; however, the appointment was rejected by Congress in the spring of 1863. Poe reverted to his old rank of lieutenant in the regular army but was soon promoted to captain and then transferred to the Western Theater. In his capacity as chief engineer of the XXIII Corps, he was a key factor in the defense of Knoxville, Tennessee. This city was successfully defended against a siege led by Confederate Lt. Gen. James Longstreet, which culminated in the November 29, 1863, Battle of Fort Sanders. Due to Poe's contributions, Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman selected Poe as his chief engineer in 1864.

Sherman's chief engineer
As chief engineer, Poe oversaw the burning of Atlanta, for which action he was honored by Sherman. Poe directly supervised the dismantling of all buildings and structures in Atlanta that could have provided any military value to the Rebels once Sherman abandoned the city; rail depots, roundhouses, arsenals and storage areas were manually disassembled and the combustible materials then destroyed by controlled fires (however, Poe was incensed at the level of uncontrolled unsanctioned arson by marauding soldiers not of his unit which resulted in heavy damage to civilian homes.)  

Poe continued to serve as chief engineer during Sherman's March to the Sea. Poe was indispensable  (by the commanding General's own words) during the March, when Sherman cut loose from his supply lines  headed southeast across the body of Georgia to Savannah, living off the land, to bring fire and pillage to the center of the Confederacy.  Dozens of river crossings, poor or non-existent roads and the extensive swamps of southern Georgia would have fatally slowed Sherman's force had not Poe's skills as leader of the bridge, road and pontoon building units kept the army moving. He also continued to supervise destruction of Confederate infrastructure.