[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ali Ahsan Mohammad Mojaheed

question, as Ziauddin appeared to help him to prepare documents for the tribunal and make detailed recommendations for Huq, and informed Huq about how the prosecutors may develop their case while in contact with the prosecution.
Nizamul Huq later resigned from the post of head judge of the tribunal.

Conviction
On 17 July 2013, Ali Ahsan Mohammad Mujaheed was found guilty of war crimes such as genocide, conspiracy in killing intellectuals, torture and abduction during 1971 Liberation war of Bangladesh by the International Crimes Tribunal-2 and was sentenced to death for 2 of the 5 charges brought against him. Mujaheed was found guilty on the charge related to the killing of Rumi, Badi, Jewel, Azad and Altaf Mahmud at the army camp set up in Nakhalpara, Dhaka, during the Liberation War. Defence lawyer Abdur Razzaq claimed that this verdict was unfair.

On 14 October 2015, Ahsan filed a review petition with the Supreme Court of Bangladesh against the sentence. On 18 November 2015, the High Court of Bangladesh upheld the death sentence of Ali Ahsan, rejecting his pleas for reviewing death penalties. According to jail officials and the Minister for Justice, Mojaheed asked for mercy in a petition to the President of Bangladesh, but his appeal was rejected. Although, his family claimed that he didn't ask for mercy to the president and it was a lie from the government.

Death 
On 22 November 2015, 12:45 AM, GMT+6, Mojaheed was hanged at Dhaka Central Jail. The execution was reported by the Minister for Justice, Anisul Huq. At the same time and place, another Bangladeshi politician, Salahuddin Quader Chowdhury, was hanged for war crime charges. Ahsan was buried at his hometown Faridpur after his namaz-e-janaza had held on Adarsha Academy's Ideal Madrasa ground at West Khabaspur of the town.

Reactions

Domestic reactions 
Ahsan's party Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami offered funeral prayers in absentia on 22 November morning, and called for a strike across the country on 23 November 2015.

Thirteen treasury bench of the Jatiyo Sangshad praised and congratulating the Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for executing the two top war criminals of Bangladesh Liberation war.

International reactions 
 - In a statement from Pakistan Foreign Ministry said after the execution, "We have noted with deep concern and anguish the unfortunate executions of the Bangladesh National Party Leader, Mr Salauddin Quadir Chowdhury, and Mr Ali Ahsan Mojaheed. Pakistan is deeply disturbed at this development."

See also 
 Char Bhadrasan massacre
 List of Bangladeshi criminals

References

1948 births
2015 deaths
21st-century executions by Bangladesh
Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami politicians
Bangladeshi male criminals
Bangladeshi Muslims
Bangladeshi people convicted of crimes against humanity
Bangladeshi people convicted of war crimes
Bangladeshi politicians convicted of crimes
Executed Bangladeshi people
Executed mass murderers
Executed politicians
People from Faridpur District
Politicians from Dhaka Division
Social Welfare ministers of Bangladesh
Executions by the International Crimes Tribunal