[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# List of South African slang words

it."  A very hard slap. similar to "klap" (to smack/slap), but far more painful: Ek gaan jou so 'n harde poesklap gee, jou tanne gaan vibreer vir maande lank. (I'm gonna smack you so hard, that your teeth will vibrate for months). Poesklap therefore is far more life-threatening than a "bitch-slap".
 FPK or flying poesklap – the deadliest of all the poesklaps
 poplap – derived from "lappop" (rag doll). It is a term of endearment towards young beautiful women, and can also extend to much younger girls usually via a grandfather-figure. The closest English equivalent would be "poppet".
 pote – lit. "animal paws". Is an informal reference to a person's feet ("voete" in Afrikaans) directly relating the condition and size of the feet to that of an animal's paws. Also derogatory term for police officers (plural).
 potjie – (pronounced "poi-key") lit. the diminutive form of the English/Afrikaans word "pot", referring to the cooking utensil, but more specifically a small-to-large sized cast iron pot that is traditionally used to make potjiekos, phutupap and samp (stampmielies).
 Potjiekos – lit. "small pot food". Is a meat and vegetable dish that is specially cooked in a potjie. It is traditionally slow-cooked over an open fire for a couple of hours before being served during a Braai (social gathering). Though it is similar to a stew, the main differences are: a stew has much water/sauce, while a potjiekos has very little water/sauce; and you stir a stew, you don't stir potjiekos as it is intended to not have the individual ingredients' flavor mixing. Potjiekos is traditionally served with phutupap or samp. Though it is considered a meal on its own, it can also be served as a side dish to braaivleis and Mielies (corn on the cob) (as both would take up a considerable amount of space on the plate).
Potte – lit. "Pots". Also refers to a huge behind. 
 pouse – (pronounced "po-ze"). As an anglicism it is derived from its English counterpart which means to temporarily stop an audio or video, or a musical break. In its Afrikaans pronunciation it refers specifically to an intermission in theatre and a school recess. Due to code-switching, the English pronunciation (in its original meaning) is also regularly used by Afrikaners, though it is separated from the Afrikaans pronunciation's meaning. For example: Ek moet die video pause (Eng pro.) omdat ons nou op pause (Afr pro.) gaan. (I have to pause the video because we're going on recess now.)
 praatsiek – lit. "talk sick."  Verbal diarrhea. A person who talks non-stop.
 praat 'n gat innie kop – lit. "speaking a hole in someone's head". To strongly convince someone to agree with you.
 quarter-past kaal arm – lit. "quarter-past naked arm". A sarcastic response to the question "What time is it?", whereby the user either doesn't know the time or doesn't care.  "Naked arm" refers to the person not wearing a wristwatch.
 rammetjie-uitnek – lit "ram with its head held high". Big-headed. Refers more to sporadic bragging rights, than egocentrism.
 reën katte en honde – lit. raining cats and dogs, i.e.: excessive rain
 renoster-snot – lit "rhinoceros snot". Prestik (a South African product similar to Blu Tack).
 rigting bedonnerd – lit. "directionless". Refers to any person who becomes easily disorientated when no visual references are helping their navigation, i.e. they feel lost very easily. It can also be used to humorously describe a person's poor sense of direction, for example: "James May can get lost in his own house."
 rietkooi – lit. "Reed bed", i.e. "bunk bed", considered out-dated as references to bunk beds in general fell out of use in favour of the English term. Original Afrikaans translation for "bunk-bed" is "stapelbed". Riet ("Reed") refers to the bunk bed frame's flimsy appearance while "kooi" is the slang term for a bed (specifically a single-bed), derived from the Capetonian dialect. "Kooi" is still in use in the Southern regions.
 rol – ("roll") A fight or brawl. Rolling – to fight.
 rooinek – ("red neck") Afrikaner derogatory term for English person or English-speaking South African. Derived in the 19th century due to native British not being used to the hot African sun and getting sunburnt, especially on the neck. Alternative explanation, reference to the fact that British officers during the two Boer Wars had red collars. 
 rooijasse/rooibaadtjies – lit. a red jacket/coat. Refers to the British soldiers of the Anglo-Boer Wars that wore red coats.
s'n - Pronounced similar to "sin" ("i" is less emphasized), it indicates possession. English Equivalent is the apostrophe ('s). Used in conjunction with "syne" (his) and "hare" (hers)
 saffa – lit. "a South African". Taken from the initials "S.A." as well as an informal pronunciation of the name "South Africa" (as Saf-Africa), the term refers to any South African-born person who also grew up in the country. This sometimes also extends to the South African Expats.
 sakkie-sakkie – Also known as the Sokkie dans, is a style