[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mike Kelly (Australian politician)

ished his military career in 2007 with the rank of colonel as Director of Army Legal Services.

Political career

Entry into politics 
In the 2007 federal election, Kelly stood as the Labor candidate for the marginal New South Wales country electorate of Eden-Monaro, regarded as a "Bellwether seat".

He was criticised by his opponent, long-standing Liberal member Gary Nairn for not residing in the electorate before his nomination and for not facing a local preselection. Nairn's chief of staff also publicly likened Kelly to a Belsen Nazi concentration camp guard for serving in the military in Iraq despite opposing the war itself. The reference became a high-profile campaign issue, with claims that Nairn's office had subsequently promoted the claim using public rather than party funds. The comment was subsequently withdrawn and an apology forwarded to media outlets and to Kelly.

Rudd-Gillard governments 
At the 2007 federal election on 24 November, Kelly won the seat with a 6.67% two-party-preferred swing, and was appointed Parliamentary Secretary for Defence Support in the incoming Rudd Government.

In 2008, after a prolonged and acrimonious debate within Australian veteran and political circles, Kelly formally acknowledged the existence of the 2nd D&E Platoon, a platoon of infantrymen that had been involved in a most successful ambush at Thua Tich on 29 May 1969 under the leadership of Corporal James Riddle. All trace of the platoon had disappeared from the records of the Vietnam War and had compromised the service histories of the 39 men who had served in it. In 2009, he was also appointed Parliamentary Secretary for Water.

After a redistribution changed the boundaries of Eden-Monaro, Kelly defeated Liberal candidate David Gazard in the 2010 federal election with a swing of 2%. As a result of the re-elected Labor Government's regional focus, Kelly was appointed as Parliamentary Secretary for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry in September 2010. In December 2011, he was appointed as Parliamentary Secretary for Defence in a reshuffle of the Government.

In a third reshuffle in early 2013, Kelly was promoted to the outer ministry and replaced Jason Clare as Minister for Defence Materiel.

In November 2012, Kelly was sued by Lynton Crosby for alleging on Twitter that Crosby had used push polling. The case was eventually discontinued in 2015 by Crosby Textor after Kelly issued an apology which explained that his tweet had concerned a poll from 1995 in which Textor was involved before Crosby Textor's business had commenced.

2013 onwards 
At the 2013 federal election, Kelly lost his seat to the Liberal Party candidate Peter Hendy.

Preselected as the Labor candidate for Eden-Monaro in May 2015, Kelly defeated Hendy and regained the seat at the 2016 federal election becoming the seat's first opposition member since 1972.

Kelly supports same-sex marriage.

In September 2018, Kelly was the target of two anti-Semitic attacks. The first attack was when a neo-Nazi sticker with the words "Antipodean Resistance" was placed on his Bega electorate office window. The second incident was when pig's blood and pork was thrown at his Queanbeyan electorate office. Kelly is a supporter of Israel and his wife and son are Jewish.

Retirement from politics 
On 30 April 2020, Kelly announced his resignation from Parliament and retirement from politics due to personal health issues. He also said he wanted to support his wife as she went through her own health issues. Ten days later, he announced he had taken a position at Palantir Technologies. He said that his role would allow him to "work within [his] physical limitations but still be in a position to make a difference in relation to the issues that matter to [him]".

Personal life
Kelly is married to Rachelle and has one son.
In October 2019 Kelly collapsed and was taken to hospital for emergency surgery. He had renal failure which he attributes to severe dehydration during his overseas military service. Kelly underwent 10 medical procedures in 6 months. His health issues, and also his wife having health problems, led to him announcing his retirement from politics.

Honours, decorations and awards

See also
 First Rudd Ministry
 Second Rudd Ministry

References

External links

ALP homepage
Personal page, Australian Parliament website
Parliamentary Secretary for Defence Support
Parliamentary Secretary for Water
Division of Eden-Monaro
News article about Mike Kelly