[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Communism

d to be older generations that lived under Communism. In contrast, younger post-Communist generations continue to be anti-democratic but are not as left-wing ideologically, which in the words of Pop-Eleches and Tucker "might help explain the growing popularity of right-wing populists in the region."

Conservatives, liberals, and social democrats generally view 20th-century Communist states as unqualified failures. Political theorist and professor Jodi Dean argues that this limits the scope of discussion around political alternatives to capitalism and neoliberalism. Dean argues that, when people think of capitalism, they do not consider what are its worst results (climate change, economic inequality, hyperinflation, the Great Depression, the Great Recession, the robber barons, and unemployment) because the history of capitalism is viewed as dynamic and nuanced; the history of communism is not considered dynamic or nuanced, and there is a fixed historical narrative of communism that emphasizes authoritarianism, the gulag, starvation, and violence. Ghodsee, along with the historians Gary Gerstle and Walter Scheidel, suggest that the rise and fall of communism had a significant impact on the development and decline of labor movements and social welfare states in the United States and other Western societies. Gerstle argues that organized labor in the United States was strongest when the threat of communism reached its peak, and the decline of both organized labor and the welfare state coincided with the collapse of communism. Both Gerstle and Scheidel posit that as economic elites in the West became more fearful of possible communist revolutions in their own societies, especially as the tyranny and violence associated with communist governments became more apparent, the more willing they were to compromise with the working class, and much less so once the threat waned.

See also 

 Commons-based peer production
 Communism by country
 Criticism of Marxism
 Crypto-communism
 List of communist parties
 Outline of Marxism
 Post-scarcity economy
 Sociocultural evolution

 Works

 American Communist History
 Twentieth Century Communism

References

Citations

Explanatory footnotes

Quotes

Bibliography

Further reading 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 . Historiographical essay that covers the scholarship of the three major schools: totalitarianism, revisionism, and post-revisionism.
 
 . (PDF version)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 .  (print).

External links 

  Retrieved 18 August 2021.
 "Communism". Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 18 August 2021.
 Libertarian Communist Library at Libcom.org contains almost 20,000 articles, books, pamphlets, and journals on libertarian communism. . Retrieved 18 August 2021. One example being "Marx on the Russian Mir, and misconceptions by Marxists".
  Retrieved 18 August 2021.
 The Radical Pamphlet Collection at the Library of Congress contains materials on the topic of communism. Retrieved 18 August 2021.
  See also "The True Levellers Standard Advanced: Or, The State of Community Opened, and Presented to the Sons of Men" from Kingston University London's Faculty of Business and Social Sciences at Marxists Internet Archive. Retrieved 18 August 2021.

 
1770s neologisms
Anarcho-communism
Anti-capitalism
Anti-fascism
Economic ideologies
Left-wing ideologies
Marxism–Leninism
Political ideologies
Political culture
Social anarchism
Socialism