[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# MetroLink (Dublin)

Party, called for the underground section of Metro North to be extended south to Beechwood, where it would then surface and provide a direct link to the Luas Green Line. This option would allow passengers to travel from the south of the city to the north, without having to change mode of transport.

When the Luas Green Line was constructed, it was designed to allow metro trains to potentially operate on the line in the future. In the National Transport Authority's Draft Transport Strategy for the Greater Dublin Area 2016–2035, it was proposed that the Metro North tunnel should be extended southwards to meet the Luas Green line in the Ranelagh area. The Luas Green line would be converted to a metro line, with Luas services on the line ending and being replaced by metro services.

In March 2019, the revised plans were released with the intention to upgrade the Green Line after the northern section is operational. As of 2016, it remained part of the transport strategy to upgrade the Green Line to be capable of running metro services, extending the metro to Sandyford and eventually to Bride's Glen.

Metro South West
In 2020, it was reported that the NTA was assessing additional potential metro provision; with a southwest line serving Terenure, Rathfarnham and Knocklyon, or a southeastern line serving University College Dublin.

Former plans

Metro West

Metro West (Irish: Meitreo Thiar) was proposed to run from an intersection with Metro North, just south of the airport at Santry, and from there pass through Blanchardstown, Liffey Valley, and Clondalkin before joining the Luas Red Line to continue towards Tallaght. Metro West was planned to be entirely above ground, at road level, and . Planning on the Metro West Project was suspended in September 2011 following a review by Leo Varadkar, then Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport, as money to construct the new railway would not be available in the foreseeable future.

Two potential routes for Metro West had been published by the Railway Procurement Agency in January 2007. Following discussions and a public consultation process, a preferred route was announced in July 2007. This route started at Tallaght, running through Belgard, Clondalkin, Liffey Valley, Blanchardstown. Stops were also proposed for the National Aquatic Centre and Abbotstown, before continuing in the direction of Sillogue and Harristown. Following Harristown it would link with the proposed Metro North line, for a combined length of 25 km.

Metro West plans, published in 2007, proposed lines which would run overground, with some tunnels and bridges to avoid major road junctions. In addition to the proposed link with Metro North, the line was proposed to interchange with the Luas at Tallaght and Belgard, rail services at Fonthill and Porterstown and Dublin Bus services at a number of other stops.

Route selection and funding
Metro West was proposed to serve the northern parts of Finglas via stops at the N2 and Meakstown. When developing options for Metro West, the Railway Procurement Agency (RPA) considered routes south of the M50, serving Finglas more directly. Ultimately, these routes were not deemed feasible.

On 11 November 2008, the RPA chose their preferred route for Metro West, including indicative stops, depot and Park and Ride locations. The preferred route for Metro West ran from Tallaght to Metro North at Dardistown, via Clondalkin, Liffey Valley and Blanchardstown. The planned route would interchange with (from south to north) the Luas Red Line, Kildare Railway Line, Luas Line F (to Lucan), Maynooth Railway Line and Metro North Line, as well as local bus services.

By 2016, Metro West had been excluded from the National Transport Authority's "Transport Strategy For The Greater Dublin Area 2016-2035". As of 2018, Metro West was not due to be considered for government funding until after 2035.

See also
 Rail transport in Ireland
 List of metro systems

References

External links
 
 National Transport Authority (NTA)
 Dublin – Metro North – Railway Order Application Website

Transport in County Dublin
Transport in Swords, Dublin
Rail transport in Ireland
Dublin
Proposed railway lines in the Republic of Ireland
Proposed rapid transit
2027 in rail transport