[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2002 in New Zealand

ance turns 35 and marks the occasion with a weekend of open performances; Student choreography season Finding Jimmy is presented at Te Whaea.
 Premiere season of WHITE by Raewyn Hill (with dancers Sarah-Jayne Howard and Sarah Sproull and dramaturg Duncan Sarkies) running from 24 July – 4 August at Bats, Wellington.
 Black Grace & Friends at Sky City  is a season of short works and two significant events for the company. Female "guest" dancers perform with the company for the first time and the gender differences between the male and female dancers are the subject for Ieremia's new Human Language. A choreographer from outside the company is commissioned for the first time—Daniel Belton creates Whai, a kinetic sculptural work with stage-wide elastic bands manipulated by the dancers. A third work by dancer Taiaroa Royal marks the passing of his father.
 The September Dance Your Sox Off festival in Wellington includes four dance seasons by professional dancers: Raewyn Hill premieres When Love Comes Calling from 4–7 September at Bats, subsequently touring to Christchurch, Dunedin and Auckland; Native is presented by Leonie Douglas and the Epitome Company (Sean McDonald, Seonaid Lyons and Claire Barret) with sound design by Blackbridge Productions – musicians Andrew McMillan and Paul Stanley, and live triggering of sound and lighting, a STAB Commission at BATS; Streamline Danceworks present new works by Leigh Evans, Angela Westerby, THROW Disposable Choreography (aka Kristian Larsen), Anne Anderson and Kay Muir, at Bats Theatre, 11–14 September; and The Mandelbrot Set presents another evening of improv contemporary dance and music at The Space, Newtown. 13 Sept. Performers:  Lyne Pringle, Sarah Sproull, Emily Kerr and 5 musicians.
 In Auckland, on 13 September, emerging choreographic collective Fresh Produce perform their inaugural Vacuum Packed show at Kingsland central as a fundraiser, departing on tour the next day to present their show in Nelson, Christchurch and Dunedin. 
 In Christchurch, The Body dance & physical theatre festival – workshops & performances runs from 13–29 September and includes 10 professional productions: Closed Circuit Orbit (touring from Wellington); Footnote's Banding Together 2002 (touring from Wellington); Poised by Hagley Dance Company; Vacuum Packed (7 short works touring from Auckland), Standing on My Hands by Jan Bolwell (touring from Wellington); Raewyn Hill's When Love Comes Calling (touring from Wellington); the Danceworks 2002 development project presents new short works by Richard Bullock and Shay Horay (for Ricochet Predicament), Sarah Franks, Sheryl Robinson (for Local Weeds), Andrew Shepherd, Fleur de Thier (for Scrambled Legs), Megan Platt, Julia Sadler (for Fresh Produce), and Sally Williams,(for the clinic); 	Slow Stride Eyes Open by Scrambled Legs; Wilderness/Weather by Michael Parmenter with Sarah-Jayne Howard (touring from Wellington), and three dance films by Daniel Belton – Lumin, Henge and Wireless.
 In Auckland on 21 September, the 2002 Aotearoa Hip Hop Summit takes over at The Edge – 8 crews battle in finals, plus workshops and performances throughout the day. That same weekend, Axess Interdisciplinary Collective (Kerryn McMurdo, Brent Harris, and Alexa Wilson) hold a fundraiser at MIC with guests Prue Cunningham, Mark Harvey, Dion Hitchens, Val Smith, Dianna Brinsden, Charles Koroneho, Wilhemeena Gordon, DJ Joe Fish vs Krutov. 
 Mika Haka tours the country on return from the Edinburgh Festival.
 In Auckland, Touch Compass takes to the big stage of the ASB Theatre for the first time on 28–29 September with a major new dance theatre work, Lighthouse co-developed by Catherine Chappell and Christian Penny with the cast. This subsequently tours to Tauranga and is recognised as a major highlight of the dance year.
 Black Grace launches a season of short New Works by company members in Wellington at Te Whaea on 24 September, subsequently touring throughout New Zealand before closing in Auckland on 30 November
 During October, two major awards are made to New Zealand choreographers – Shona McCullagh becomes a Laureate of the Arts Foundation, and Raewyn Hill winning an AMP Scholarship for international travel and study.
 6–8 November The Carlisle House Project was a site specific project presented in two semi-derelict buildings on Richmond Road, Auckland. Produced by Michele Powles with choreography by Lou Potiki Bryant, Geoff Gilson, Vicky Kapo, Cathy Livermoore, Michele Powles, and Strange Fruit (Alyx Duncan and Maria Dabrowska). 
 In Wellington, Propulsion presented Black Body: a multi-sensory design journey involving dance theatre, literature and theatrical technology. Dancers were Kilda Northcott, Lyne Pringle and Sarah Sproull with Jean Betts, Edward Davis, David Holmes, Gabe McDonnell, Ciara Mulholland, Peter Petrovich, Lizz Santos, Heidi Simmonds, Alana Spragg, Annemiek Weterings. A STAB commission 13–23 November at Bats.
 And in Dunedin, a week long creative w