[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Information Control Division

from American film industries that were banned were ones that touched on specific political topics and representations that reflected the recent events of World War II. The ICD brought in American civilians with experience in the American film industry to help the reeducation process on this front.

In late 1946, there was a considerable uptick in the amount of criticism of American-occupied Germany polices coming from the Soviet-occupied territory of Germany through their Soviet-controlled press. Shortly after, in response to this criticism, the ICD launched a covert campaign to produce anticommunist propaganda in America-occupied Germany to fight the charges produced by Soviet propaganda. One of the most important ways they broadcast this propaganda was through the radio control branch. The ICD and many other military activities in the American-occupied Germany shifted from anti-Nazism and anti-fascism messaging to anti-communist propaganda-to the disapproval of a number of ICD employees. In 1947, the ICD led Radio Stuttgart hosted a talk series called "The America View", wherein the talk show host would explicitly call on listeners to denounce communism, labeling it as a "threat". This new direction, and the beginning of tense relations between the United States and the Soviet Union, also caused many ICD employees to fall under scrutiny of having communist or Marxian ties.

Locations 
After World War II, the post-war Yalta Conference declared that Germany would be split into four occupational zones occupied, respectively, by the United States, Britain, France, and the Soviet Union. The American-occupied sector in Germany "encompassed Bavaria, Hesse, Württemberg-Baden (now Baden-Württemberg), the Bremen enclave, and the U.S Sector of Berlin". Each of these occupied zones held offices wherein the ICD would handle the administrative tasks to help the United States exert influence over German media through the different control branches of the ICD. ICD main headquarters were located in Berlin.

Personnel 

The Information Control Division employed many former Psychological Warfare Division personnel and was under the command of General McClure. General McClure had extensive experience in psychological warfare during World War II, working as Chief of the Information and Censorship section of the Allied Force Headquarters in 1942 and Head of the Psychological Warfare Division in 1944. General McClure assigned William S. Paley to Deputy Chief of the Information Control Division. William S. Paley, popular for his role as president and Chair of Columbia Broadcast System. McClure also assigned Billy Wilder as Officer, a renowned figure in the film industry, who helped outline suggestions for Germany's post-war film industry.  Along with these high-profile figures, McClure also hired individuals from academia who occupied important leadership roles in Germany's U.S. occupied territories. One of these academic figures was Douglas Waples, a professor at the University of Chicago who assisted in the activities of the Publications Control Branch in Berlin. Another influential figure was ICD Chief and Director General Gordon Textor. McClure also assigned Alfred Toombs as head of ICD's Intelligence Branch. ICD was a mixture of civilian personnel such as Paley, Wilder, etc. and military personnel that had come from the former Psychological Warfare Division. Additionally, the ICD employed prisoners of war and refugees who had previously worked for the Psychological Warfare Division, to help with ICD operational activities in their occupied zones.

Critiques 
The insertion of American films into the German film industry and presence of Hollywood filmmakers within ICD personnel was cited as problematic for some ICD critics. Author Robert R. Shandley states that there is an inherent conflict of interest in Hollywood's input and presence within the handling and control of German media. Shandley argues that Hollywood was gearing up to take over foreign film markets under the guise of assisting in the "reeducation" of post-war Germany. Many have also critiqued the large American replacement of German media, especially in the German film industry, for its erasure of German voices and perspectives for their own reconciliation with their history.