[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Health (film)

HealtH (also known as Health and H.E.A.L.T.H.) is a 1980 American ensemble comedy film, the fifteenth feature project from director Robert Altman.  It stars Carol Burnett, Glenda Jackson, James Garner, Lauren Bacall, and Paul Dooley, and was written by Altman, Dooley and Frank Barhydt.  The film's title is an acronym for "Happiness, Energy, and Longevity through Health".

A parody and satire of the U.S. political scene of the time, HealtH is set at a health food convention at a Florida luxury hotel, where a powerful political organization is deciding on a new president.  The election is rife with backroom deals and scandal; a businessman, Colonel Cody, is out to rig the votes and the outcome.  Dick Cavett and Dinah Shore, two television talk show personalities of the time, are mentioned prominently in the film.

HealtH was made by Robert Altman's company, Lion's Gate Films (no relation to Lionsgate Films), in early 1979.  It was the director's last film for the 20th Century-Fox studio, which shelved its official release for over two years. Despite this, it received festival showings and a brief Los Angeles run during 1980. The film was broadcast on various U.S. television stations over the years, including The Movie Channel and Fox Movie Channel, but it has never been issued on home video.

Plot
Bearing similarities to Altman's 1975 film Nashville, along with a plotless structure, HealtH chronicles the progress of a health-food convention held at a luxury hotel in St Pete Beach, Florida.  As the convention takes place, the members of an organization called HealtH hold a campaign to find out who will become its President.  (Their name stands for "Happiness, Energy and Longevity through Health"; it also serves as their slogan.)  The candidates are Esther Brill, an 83-year-old afflicted with narcolepsy who calls herself "the first lady of health"; Isabella Garnell, who is serious against commercialism and materialism; and Dr. Harold (Gil) Gainey, a salesperson-turned-independent.

On the first day of the conference, The Steinettes (a female quartet dressed in green and yellow) introduce Dick Cavett, who is hosting his show on location and covering the details of the event.  He interviews Gloria Burbank and Esther Brill, two of the candidates competing for the new Presidency of the HealtH organization.  Burbank, a White House representative, has been sent to this venue on the President of the United States' behalf.  Later that day at the hotel lounge, Burbank's ex-husband Harry Wolff plans to re-schedule the Cavett interview, due to difficulties with Brill during her profile.  The moment Burbank heads to her room, Gil Gainey (a minor candidate) stops her and debates on the worth of her strategy.

On the morning of the second day, several conventioneers notice a seemingly dead body sunk to the bottom of the pool from their balconies. Harry Wolff and the President's advisor on health, Gloria Burbank, are chatting by the deep end of the pool. Gloria then dives into the pool, not realizing there is a body floating on the bottom. As she approaches it, she finally sees it and screams in fear, heading back to the surface.  Some other men dive in to rescue the drowned body, but it turns out that Gainey had been using an oxygen tank in order to play a publicity stunt.

That night, Garnell announces a serious message from the top of the hotel through her loudspeaker; many guests take notice, and some complain.  Around that time, a businessperson named Colonel Cody arrives at the conference, and heads to Garnell's room to interrogate and find out her plans.

Next morning, Harry finds out that Burbank is beginning to support Garnell, and thinks that this is not right.  Later on, while discussing breastfeeding and abortion with Brill, Burbank is astonished that Garnell and Brill were actually born male.  After serving in the Navy, both had sex change operations in 1960.  Bobby Hammer, a dirty tricks specialist, actually concocted this revelation to trick Burbank.

After another discussion with Brill, Burbank enters the empty convention hall, where Cody interrupts her.  He finds her title, and the ideals of the HealtH organization, worthless.  Ashamed and in tears, Burbank is shocked that he controls not only HealtH, but also the ongoing election; he even plans to rig the votes and the outcome.  She runs back to tell Wolff on Cody's scheme.  As the couple start making love, Burbank is worried that it will be all over for her if Garnell wins.  Harry, however, assures her that Garnell is still a woman anyway.