[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 28]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

ntains. Hannifin is freed. He had previously been made to dig his own grave prior to his imminent execution.
9 April – Anti-Treaty fighters cross the Corrib in boats from Oughterard and attack the Free State Army barracks at Headford, County Galway. They detonate a mine against the wall of the barracks and then open fire. The gun battle continues until Free State reinforcements arrive and the irregulars withdraw. The Free State troops lose two soldiers killed and five wounded. Two republicans are killed and more wounded. More Anti-Treaty men are captured in the aftermath of the attack.
10 April – Liam Lynch, Republican Commander in Chief, is killed in a skirmish with Free State troops in the Knockmealdown mountains in County Tipperary. He and a group of republicans are caught on a hillside armed only with side-arms and Lynch is shot while attempting to flee. Four more senior Republican officers are captured in the incident. This is part of the same sweep that had captured several other senior republicans a few days earlier. Lynch's death is often cited as the effective end of the war.
11 April – Six Republican prisoners are executed by firing squad in Tuam, County Galway.
Waterford Anti-Treaty IRA Flying Column Leader Tom Keating is mortally wounded. He is transported in a horse and dray and is denied medical attention. The Dungarvan parish priest permits only one mass to be offered for him.
A National Army report states, "Events of the past few days point to the beginning of the end as a far as the irregular campaign is concerned".
12 April – National Army officer in Clonmel barracks shoots dead a prisoner named Jerome Lyons. he allegedly tried to grab the officers revolver while under interrogation
13 April – Three republican fighters are surprised and captured in a dug out near Gortaglanna, County Kerry. One is shot dead, the other two are taken prisoner.
A National Army scout is shot dead in Glenties, County Donegal.
14 April – 
Austin Stack, Deputy IRA Chief of Staff, is captured by Free State troops near Ballymacarbry. He is carrying a document accepting a proposal by the Catholic Bishop of Cashel to end the war by calling a ceasefire and dumping arms.
Free-State forces converge on a ruined castle at Castleblake, County Kilkenny after receiving information that it was being used as a dugout by the Republicans. Free State Lieutenant Kennedy calls on the occupants to surrender and fires three shots through the door. A grenade is thrown from inside the shelter, mortally wounding Lieutenant Kennedy. Free-State troops then rush the building. Two republican fighters(Ned Somers and Theo English) are killed in the firefight and several others captured.
A 62-year-old woman Bridge Geoghegan is shot dead accidentally by republican guerrillas in Ballybay Monaghan. A weapon discharged when they arrived at her house demanding food and shelter. 
15 April – A fire-fight between an Anti-Treaty IRA column and Free State troops takes place at Glenvar, County Kerry. The Free State claims that nine Republicans were killed in the action.
17 April – Laurence Ginnell, who in December 1922 was appointed by Éamon de Valera as envoy for the anti-Treatyites in the United States, dies in a Washington, D.C. hotel.
18 April – 
Anti-Treaty IRA column under Timothy Lyons (known as "Aeroplane") is surrounded by Free State troops near Kerry Head. They take refuge in caves on the coast. Two Free State soldiers are killed when they try to storm the cave. After three days siege, landmines are lowered over the cave mouths and exploded, killing three Republicans. Lyons is also drowned in the incident. The remaining IRA men surrender. This is the last significant engagement of the civil war in Kerry. Roughly 180 people have been killed in the county, of whom 85 were Free State troops, 72 Anti-Treaty fighters and 12 civilians.
Six Anti-Treaty fighters are executed in Tuam County Galway.
19 April – Two Anti-Treaty fighters are killed in action at Kealkil, West Cork.
20 April – Frank Aiken is elected IRA Chief of Staff.
21 April – An Anti-Treaty IRA captain, Martin Hogan, is abducted and killed in Dublin, his body is found in Drumcondra.
A Free State soldier (Stephen Clancy) is shot dead while patrolling in Ennis, County Clare. An elderly civilian is shot dead during an ambush in Cork City. Another civilian John Melvin is shot dead by the IRA in Ballina, County Mayo as an alleged informer and another government supporter is shot and fatally wounded while in bed.
22 April – Free State troops surround Frank Aiken, Padraig Quinn and Sean Quinn, the leaders of the Anti-Treaty forces in the Dundalk area, in a safe house in Castlebellingham. A firefight breaks out in which the two Quinns are wounded, Sean mortally and subsequently captured. In the confusion, Aiken manages to slip away.
24 April – Free State troops take a republican prisoner, Daniel Murphy, to Knocknagoshel, where 5 National Army troops had been killed on 6 March and shoot him dead.
2