[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# TB Alliance

erms are included in all licensing contracts and end products are designed to be easy for patients to take. TB Alliance also collaborates with national and international partners, working to ensure that new therapies are adopted and accessible to healthcare providers and patients via local channels.

In February 2019, TB Alliance's application for the novel tuberculosis (TB) medicine pretomanid was accepted for review by the U.S. FDA. In August 2019, TB Alliance's tuberculosis (TB) medicine pretomanid was approved by the U.S. FDA, to be used in combination with two other antibiotics, bedaquiline and linezolid, for the treatment of extensively drug-resistant (XDR) TB as well as treatment-intolerant or nonresponsive multidrug-resistant (MDR) TB.

Treating drug-resistant TB

Combination therapies are essential for treating active tuberculosis infections. Currently, there are four first-line tuberculosis drugs given as a combination therapy over an extended period of time. Some strains of the tuberculosis pathogen are resistant to two (called MDR-TB) or at least four (called XDR-TB) first-line tuberculosis drugs. Due to the contagious nature of tuberculosis, drug resistance is considered to be a serious public health issue, particularly among people with an already weakened immune system, for example people living with HIV.

Donors
The TB Alliance has a diverse set of global partnerships with both public and private sector donors that fund the company's work. The organization operates with the support of:
 Australia Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
 Germany's Federal Ministry of Education and Research through KfW
 Global Health Innovative Technology (GHIT) Fund
 Indonesia Health Fund
 Irish Aid
 Medical Research Council (United Kingdom)
 National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease
 Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs
 UK Department of International Development (DFID)
 UK Department of Health
 United States Agency for International Development (USAID)

References

External links
 TB Alliance 
 The Stop TB Partnership

Tuberculosis organizations
International medical and health organizations