[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Petroperú

ervice since January 2015.

Derivatives 
The company has the necessary coverage to meet the national demand because it has a presence throughout the country. It has the capacity to meet the requirements of foreign companies and is a strategic supplier to the Armed Forces and National Police of Peru.

The fuels and derived products produced by Petroperú are:

Fuels 

In addition to fuels, Petroperú also offers solvents, naphthenic acid and asphalts in its list of products.

Projects

New Talara Refinery 
The Talara Refinery Modernization Project is an engineering and construction megaproject that consists of the installation of new process units and facilities aimed at improving product quality, increasing the refinery's production capacity, and implementing more complex processes. and more advanced technology. The economic and environmental benefits are as follows:

 Desulfurize fuels.
 Improve the octane number of gasoline.
 Process heavier crude oils.
 Reduce the production of residuals.
 Implement new facilities that the modernized refinery will require.
 Produce cleaner fuels.

Law for the execution of the New Talara Refinery Project - Law 30130 
On December 17, 2013, then-President Ollanta Humala promulgated Law 30130, which declared the modernization of the Talara Refinery to be of public necessity and national interest to ensure the preservation of air quality and public health. The law also indicates that measures be adopted to strengthen the Corporate Governance of Petroperú.

Lot 64 
The objective of the Project is to extract the crude oil reserves discovered in the Situche Central field, in Lot 64, located in the Loreto region.

The Project design foresees a modular execution scheme that facilitates the putting into production of the discovery wells (early production) and that allows the development of the deposit, in accordance with the confirmation of its productive potential:

 Phase A: Putting Well SC-3X into production
 Phase B: Putting Well SC-2X into production
 Phase C: Comprehensive development of the Situche Central Field

Additionally, the project includes the drilling of an exploratory well to increase the hydrocarbon reserves in the lot.

The project was planned to be developed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Joint Investment contract signed by Petroperú S.A. and Geopark Peru S.A.C. which included an initial participation of 25% and 75% respectively. However, in July 2020, Geopark Peru S.A.C. decided to abandon Lot 64. Petroperú accepted the assignment of 75% of the additional participation, thus obtaining 100% of the rights and obligations as a contractor.

Transportation of Heavy Crudes 
Most of the oil to be transported through the North Peruvian Pipeline is classified as heavy crude (density below 20° API), so it is necessary to adapt this transportation system in order to transport said crude. The project has been called the Heavy Crude Transportation Project (PTCP).

The heavy crude from the lots located in the northern jungle of Peru will be transported by the North Branch of the ONP, from Andoas to Station 5 and from there to Bayóvar through Section II. Section I of the ONP (Station 1 - Station 5) will be used when the Perenco company transports its early production of 7 MBPD (July 2013) by river and delivers it to the ONP at Station 1 (San José de Saramuro), for its transfer to Bayovar.

ERP Modernization Project 
The areas in which ERP is being implemented are the following:

 Finance
 Commercial
 Logistics
 Maintenance
 Refinement
 Human Resources

Other refinery Projects 
The company has a feasibility study prepared by the Spanish company Fluor, for a future modernization of the Iquitos Refinery. It has also formed a Task-Force team to formulate a medium-term project for the modernization of the Conchán Refinery, another of its refineries located south of Lima. It will also explore lot 192, in which it is looking for partners.