[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation New Life

ficers in the South Vietnamese military and officials of the South Vietnamese government. However, a Congressional report summed up characteristics of the refugees who arrived in Guam as follows: "Half the Vietnamese we intended to get out did not get out – and half who did get out should not have."

The refugees included "farmers ... an entire fishing village ... Many gave the impression of not knowing where they were or why they were there. Some had simply fled in panic."  However, once in Guam, "their destination was the United States ... how many never intended to travel to continental United States will never be known."  The majority of the Vietnamese on Guam were from the educated elite of the country. Twenty percent had attended a university; 40 percent were Catholic, and 35 percent spoke some English — all much higher percentages than those of the Vietnamese population as a whole.

Military participation

More than 20,000 military personnel from all services were involved in the operation. The military was tasked with providing transportation, operating refugee reception centers in the Pacific and the United States, and assisting civilian agencies in the resettlement program. Expenses incurred by the military were reimbursed from the funds appropriated to the IATF of which the Department of Defense was a member.

Airlifts from Saigon's Tan Son Nhut Air Base unloaded at Andersen Air Force Base. Passengers were escorted to Tent City, where tents erected just hours before awaited them. Those who fled Vietnam by sea landed at the Naval Supply Station at Apra Harbor. First responders included personnel from , the Naval Station and Naval Mobile Construction Battalion  4.

Tasked with providing food and shelter, Naval Station Tug Base personnel improvised housing from abandoned warehouses of decommissioned Camp Minron with cots and supplies from the base emergency hurricane supplies, fed hundreds from plastic trash cans full of fish and rice from the base galley.

 also provided hot meals from her own stores and galley. Outside showers were made from a circle of metal lockers and fire hoses with sprinkler heads. The Seabee's first task was the construction of 2,000 squad tents measuring  x . Seabees also set up Vietnam-style steel drum toilets, which were immediately overwhelmed. The Seabee project list:
 450 acres of jungle cleared
 electrical system installed
 25 Southeast Asia huts erected
 3,546 strong back squad tents erected
 additional berthing – 3,381
 nine galleys erected
 two hospital facilities erected
 400 restrooms installed
 thousands of feet of water mains installed
 148 new showers installed
 over  of fencing installed

Lockheed C-141 Starlifter and Lockheed C-130 Hercules aircraft unloaded and personnel processed at NAS Agana, Brewer Field. The tent camp was located on Orote Field, an abandoned airstrip on the Orote Peninsula within Naval Base Guam. At its peak it held a population of 39,331. The camp, called Camp Rainbow, was staffed by units from the U.S. 25th Infantry Division from Schofield Barracks, Hawaii; initially under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Will H. Horn (April–May), and later of Colonel Jack O'Donohue (June–September). The command consisted of the 1st Battalion, 5th Infantry Regiment and 1st Battalion, 27th Infantry Regiment, elements of the 25th Supply and Transport Battalion, a field hospital from Fort Lewis, WA the 423rd Medical Company and intelligence teams.

In addition to the Army run camp at Orote Point, numerous Vietnamese were housed at Andersen Air Force Base in an area known as Tin City. This complex of pre-engineered metal buildings had previously served as housing for aircraft maintenance and other personnel supporting the B-52 bombing missions that flew from Andersen. The complex included dormitory and latrine facilities which were quickly made ready by base personnel.

Admiral Morrison would later call Operation New Life the most satisfying assignment of his career.

The Viet Nam Thuong Tin
Among the refugees in Guam were about 1,600 people who requested repatriation to Vietnam.  Many of them were South Vietnamese army and naval personnel.  The Vietnamese navy had loaded up their ships with people during the evacuation and sailed out to sea, ending up in Guam.  Their families often left behind, the soldiers and sailors requested—then demanded—that they be allowed to return to Vietnam.