[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ain al-Hilweh

authorities claimed that the group had connections with Syria and that the group has participated in terrorist attacks in various Arab countries. Palestinian sources described the moves as a step toward the disarmament of their factions, in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1559.

Clashes during the 2007 Lebanon conflict

On 3 June 2007, Jund al-Sham fired a rocket-propelled grenade at a Lebanese Army checkpoint near Sidon, prompting a response from the Lebanese Army leading to clashes in the camp. These clashes follow a tense three weeks in Lebanon's north, where the Lebanese Army has been battling militant group Fatah al-Islam at the Palestinian refugee camp Nahr al-Bared.

2008 clashes
In March 2008, fighting broke out between members of the Fatah faction and the Islamist group Jund al-Sham.

Influx of refugees from Syria
The conditions in the camp have been exacerbated by an influx of previously Syrian-based Palestinian refugees, as a result of the Syrian Civil War. As a result of this influx, the camp's population has swelled from 70,000 to as much as 120,000.

As of 2014, the camp suspected of being a popular destination for jihadist rebels fleeing neighbouring Syria, particularly after the Syrian Army, backed by the Shia Lebanese militia Hezbollah, regained control of Yabroud from the rebels in March 2014.

Walling of camp
In 2016 Lebanese authorities began constructing a concrete wall with watch towers around the camp. The wall has faced some criticism, being called "racist" by some and supposedly labeling residents as terrorists or islamists. As of May 2017 the wall construction is nearly complete.

2023 clashes

On July 30, 2023, fighting broke out inside the camp when gunmen tried to assassinate Islamist militant Mahmoud Khalil, killing a companion of his instead. Later, Islamist militants ambushed a Fatah military general in a parking lot, killing him and three bodyguards. Fighting continued the next day, with six more people being killed, bringing the death toll to eleven. More than 40 people were injured. A ceasefire was announced later in the day. More than 2,000 people left the camp amid the fighting.

Notable residents
Naji al-Ali, cartoonist who moved to Ain al-Hilweh with his family after the 1948 Palestinian expulsion and flight
Hajj Radwan

See also
Nabatieh camp, destroyed between the years 1982–1991 and most of the population moved to Ain al-Hilweh
A World Not Ours, a documentary film about life in Ain al-Hilweh, broadcast as part of the P.O.V. series

References

External links
Ein el-Hilweh camp, articles from UNRWA
Watch "Isti'mariyah – windward between Naples and Baghdad"
Zochrot action re al-Ras al-Ahmar refugees in Ain al-Hilweh
Who is 'Ain al-Hilweh?, Jadaliyya
Ain al-Hilweh: Lebanon's "Zone of Unlaw" (June 2003) as ref. 3 – alternative link

Palestinian refugee camps in Lebanon
Syrian refugee camps