[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation Astute

in a press conference that East Timor had requested Australia "send defence forces to East Timor to help in maintaining and re-establishing public order".  Australia would send an advance party including the Vice Chief of Defence force to negotiate conditions of the deployment the following morning.

25 May
 07:00 (Canberra) Prime Minister of Australia John Howard arrives back in Canberra from Dublin early, though not officially because of the East Timor crisis.
 12:30 (Darwin) A RAAF 34SQN Challenger 604 (VIP jet) was tasked to fly the Australian Vice Chief of Defence Force from Canberra to Dili via Darwin, to negotiate the rules of engagement of the Australian operation, and other conditions of deployment.  However, on arrival in Darwin the Chief of the Defence Force ordered the aircraft to remain in Darwin, due to a dramatic increase in violence in Dili.
 (Dili) RAAF 37SQN C130J Hercules aircraft arrive at Dili from Darwin with 130 commandos on board, together with 4 Australian Army Black Hawk helicopters.  The Vice Chief of Defence Force was also on board the C130, after being unable to fly to Dili on the RAAF VIP jet.   Dili Airport is now under Australian military control.  However the VCDF is unable to leave the airport due to security concerns.
 (Dili) HMAS Adelaide arrives in Dili Harbour.
 18:43 (Canberra) Prime Minister John Howard announces in a press conference that the deployment will "go ahead without any conditionality" and that 1300 troops would be in place "in a very short order", despite a failure to negotiate conditions of the deployment with the East Timorese Government.  He explains waiting for signatures could lead to significant further bloodshed and the East Timorese Government is desperate for Australian troops to arrive.
 (Darwin) The Royal Australian Air Force commence transporting troops to Dili. A 33SQN Boeing 707 ferries troops between Townsville and Darwin, whilst 36SQN C-130Hs and 37SQN C-130Js transport troops and supplies between Darwin and Dili.  The flights also commence evacuations of civilians on the return legs.  The flights continue throughout the night and the following day to form an air bridge between Darwin and Dili.

26 May
 (Dili) Malaysian Army soldiers begin arrive in Dili.  RAAF aircraft continue to transport troops and equipment.
 United States Fleet Antiterrorism Security Team platoon arrives in Dili to protect the US Embassy.

27 May
 13:30 (Darwin) A Royal New Zealand Air Force C-130H arrives in Darwin from Townsville, ready to deploy New Zealand soldiers to East Timor.

29 May

 The initial deployment of Australian soldiers is completed.
 A platoon of 42 New Zealand soldiers arrives in Dili to secure the New Zealand embassy.

31 May

 Delta Company, 2/1 Battalion, Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment of 123 New Zealand soldiers arrives in Dili.

June 2006
 2 June
 8 New Zealand military police arrive in Dili.

 3 June
 USAF C-17 Globemaster III aircraft complete their task of ferrying Australian troops and equipment between Townsville and Darwin.

 7 June
 Australian Defence Minister Brendan Nelson and New Zealand Defence Minister Phil Goff and Defence Secretary Graham Fortune visit Dili.

 16 June
 Rebel Timorese soldiers begin handing their weapons over to Australian troops.

 27 June

 It is announced that a New Zealand soldier fired a warning shot during the week of 18–24 June. This is apparently the first shot fired during the intervention.

July 2006
 1 July
 50 soldiers from 2/1 RNZIR and other units fly to Timor Leste to replace members of the initial New Zealand force.

 18 July
 Australian Prime Minister John Howard visits Timor Leste. During his visit he announced that the Australian force in the country will be gradually reduced.

 19 July
 HMAS Kanimbla departs Timor Leste for Australia carrying 250 soldiers and four S-70A Blackhawk helicopters.

August 2006
 3 August
 The Australian Government announces that the ADF has commenced a gradual drawdown of forces in Timor Leste due to the improving security situation. An infantry company, 23 armoured personnel carriers and support personnel are scheduled to depart Timor Leste over the next few weeks.

 7 August
 A Company, 1st Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment returns to Townsville after 71 days in Timor Leste as part of Battle Group Faithful.

 14 August
 G Company, 4th Field Regiment, Royal Australian Artillery returns to Townsville after being deployed since 26 May 2006.

 27 August
 D Company, 2nd Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment returns to Townsville after being deployed to Timor Leste. Further soldiers from the 3rd Combat Signal Regiment are scheduled to return later in the week.

 28 August
 It is announced that 44 New Zealand military personnel will return home from Timor Leste on 31 August.