[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

ne by the Kelley Lancers (CompanyA) in Romney in October 1861. As the regiment grew, it worked primarily in detachments to hunt bushwhackers. The Baltimore & Ohio Railroad (a.k.a. the B&O Railroad) was an important asset for the Union army, and detachments of the regiment were also used to guard it.

Although the regiment became West Virginia's "most active, and one of the most effective," it did not begin well. During 1862, General Frederick W. Lander brought court martial charges against Anisansel for "failing to obey an order to charge the enemy" at Bloomery Gap. Anisansel was exonerated because he claimed a battle injury made him unable to make the charge. After returning to duty, he resigned on August 6, 1862. He was succeeded by Richmond, his second-in-command. During December 1862, Richmond became involved in a dispute that resulted in his arrest for disobedience. Richmond remained under arrest until he resigned on March 18, 1863.

On May 3, 1863, an 80-man detachment of the regiment was surprise attacked at Warrenton Junction by the notorious guerilla warfare leader Major John S. Mosby and his Mosby's Rangers. They were rescued by the 5th New York Cavalry, but had 17 men killed or wounded, including Major Josiah Steele—who died about one month later from his wounds. During the spring after the Mosby encounter, the regiment was armed with Spencer repeating rifles. Officers from the regiment sent a petition to Secretary of War Edwin Stanton to have Richmond reinstated. Richmond was reinstated as regimental commander on June 12. On June 20, the new state of West Virginia joined the union, and the 1st Virginia Cavalry (loyal) became the 1st West Virginia Cavalry—although many still called it the 1st Virginia.

Gettysburg Campaign

On June 24, the 3rd Brigade, Third Division, Twenty-second Army Corps of the Army of the Potomac departed from its camp in Fairfax, Virginia. Their destination was Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. Richmond commanded the 1st West Virginia Cavalry as it departed with 10 of the regiment’s companies as part of this brigade with three other regiments. The brigade moved to Frederick, Maryland, where the entire division was reorganized into two brigades. Brigadier General Judson Kilpatrick was assigned command of the division, and Brigadier General Elon J. Farnsworth was assigned command of the 1st Brigade. Brigadier General George Armstrong Custer was assigned command of the 2nd brigade. As the troops moved from Frederick toward Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, the regiment in the rear was attacked by cavalry under the command of General James Ewell Brown "Jeb" Stuart. Farnsworth's 1st Brigade counter-attacked, and with the help of Custer's 2nd Brigade drove off the Confederate cavalry. The 1st West Virginia had 2 killed, 5 wounded, and 18 men taken prisoner. This June 30 battle became known as the Battle of Hanover.

Gettysburg
The Battle of Gettysburg began on the next day, lasting from July 1 through July 3. The Union Army of the Potomac, commanded by General George G. Meade, defeated the invading Confederate Army of Northern Virginia commanded by General Robert E. Lee. Over 150,000 men (both sides combined) fought in this battle, and casualties are estimated to be around 51,000.

Farnsworth's brigade did not encounter any enemy forces for the first two days (July 1 and 2) of the battle. Late in the afternoon on the third day of the battle, Kilpatrick ordered Farnsworth to make a mounted charge against a Confederate infantry position that was fortified and near ground difficult for horses. Although Farnsworth objected, he followed his orders. The 1st West Virginia Cavalry, led by Richmond, made the first charge. The West Virginians became nearly surrounded by the 1st Texas Infantry and had to retreat to safety using their sabers. They took some prisoners and suffered casualties of five killed and four wounded. Farnsworth led a second group of men in another charge and took significant casualties—and Farnsworth was killed. The charge became known as the infamous Farnsworth's Charge. After the death of Farnsworth, Richmond assumed command (officially July 4) of Farnsworth's 1st Brigade. Major Charles E. Capehart assumed command of the 1st West Virginia Cavalry. Both commands were temporary.

Pursuit of Lee's Army
After the third day of fighting at Gettysburg, armies on both sides were exhausted. Lee's Confederate Army of Northern Virginia prepared to leave during the rainy night and return to the relative safety of Virginia. Their trip back would involve traveling through mountains to cross the Potomac River at Williamsport, Maryland. General John D. Imboden led a wagon train carrying wounded men on a northwest route, which was safer and easier to follow. Lee moved with the healthy part of his Army of Northern Virginia on a more southern route to Williamsport that was shorter but had more difficult terrain.