[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cathelicidin

s, pigs, cattle, frogs, sheep, goats, chickens, and horses. Antibodies to the human LL-37/hCAP-18 have been used to find cathelicidin-like compounds in a marsupial. About 30 cathelicidin family members have been described in mammals.

Currently identified cathelicidin peptides include the following:

 Human: hCAP-18 (cleaved into LL-37)
 Rhesus monkey: RL-37
 Mice:CRAMP-1/2, (Cathelicidin-related Antimicrobial Peptide
 Rats: 
 Rabbits: CAP-18
 Guinea pig: CAP-11
 Pigs: PR-39, Prophenin, PMAP-23,36,37
 Cattle: BMAP-27,28,34 (Bovine Myeloid Antimicrobial Peptides); Bac5, Bac7
 Frogs: cathelicidin-AL (found in Amolops loloensis)
 Chickens: Four cathelicidins, fowlicidins 1,2,3 and cathelicidin Beta-1 
 Tasmanian Devil: Saha-CATH5 
 Salmonids: CATH1 and CATH2

Clinical significance 
Patients with rosacea have elevated levels of cathelicidin and elevated levels of stratum corneum tryptic enzymes (SCTEs). Cathelicidin is cleaved into the antimicrobial peptide LL-37 by both kallikrein 5 and kallikrein 7 serine proteases. Excessive production of LL-37 is suspected to be a contributing cause in all subtypes of Rosacea. Antibiotics have been used in the past to treat rosacea, but antibiotics may only work because they inhibit some SCTEs.

Lower plasma levels of human cathelicidin antimicrobial protein (hCAP18) appear to significantly increase the risk of death from infection in dialysis patients. The production of cathelicidin is up-regulated by vitamin D.

SAAP-148 (a synthetic antimicrobial and antibiofilm peptide) is a modified version of  LL-37 that has enhanced antimicrobial activities compared to LL-37. In particular, SAAP-148 was more efficient in killing bacteria under physiological conditions. In addition, SAAP-148 synergises with the repurposed antibiotic halicin against antibiotic-resistant bacteria and biofilms.

LL-37 is thought to play a role in psoriasis pathogenesis (along with other anti-microbial peptides). In psoriasis, damaged keratinocytes release LL-37 which forms complexes with self-genetic material (DNA or RNA) from other cells. These complexes stimulate dendritic cells (a type of antigen presenting cell) which then release interferon α and β which contributes to differentiation of T-cells and continued inflammation. LL-37 has also been found to be a common auto-antigen in psoriasis; T-cells specific to LL-37 were found in the blood and skin in two thirds of patients with moderate to severe psoriasis.

LL-37 binds to the peptide Ab, which is associated with Alzheimer's disease. An imbalance between LL-37 and Ab may be a factor affecting AD-associated fibrils and plaques. Chronic, oral Porphyromonas gingivalis, and herpesvirus (HSV-1) infections may contribute to the progression of Alzheimer's dementia.

Applications 
Research into the AMP family—particularly in regards to their mechanism of action—has been ongoing for nearly 20 years. Despite sustained interest, treatments derived or utilizing AMPs have not been widely adopted for clinical use for several reasons. One, drug candidates from AMPs have a narrow window of bioavailability, because peptides are quickly broken down by proteases. Two, peptide drugs are more expensive than small molecule drugs to produce, which is problematic since peptide drugs must be given in large doses to counter rapid enzymatic breakdown. These qualities also limit routes of administration, typically to injection, infusion, or slow release therapy.

See also 
 Antimicrobial peptides
 Innate immune system
 Peptoid

References

Further reading

External links 
 

Immune system
Antimicrobial peptides
Leukocytes
Protein families