[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nefesh B'Nefesh

(IMA), Israel's National Health Funds (Kupot Holim), and Israeli hospitals. As of 2023, more than 3800 medical professionals from various specialties have made Aliyah through Nefesh B'Nefesh.

In 2021, Nefesh B'Nefesh created UpGrade, an employment program offering career training courses for olim.

Nefesh B'Nefesh provides assistance with Israeli bureaucratic procedures and helps olim overcome cultural gaps. The Government Advocacy Department works with governmental and institutional bodies, such as the Ministries of Interior and Immigrant Absorption. The department provides information for olim, such as guides for dealing with government offices and agencies, and information regarding benefits.

Nefesh B'Nefesh runs several special programs such as Soldier aliyah Fund and Physician aliyah Program. Nefesh B'Nefesh provides chartered and group aliyah flights with El Al Airlines, Israel's official airline. In 2019, the organization launched a 'MedEx' track for prospective immigrants to help smooth the process for medical professionals who were moving to Israel.

Go Beyond-North program

The Go Beyond-North program aims to encourage Jews from North America and the UK to immigrate directly to the northern part of Israel, including the following regions: Galilee, Golan Heights, Jezreel Valley and Upper Jordan Valley. The city of Haifa and its neighboring suburbs (Krayot) are not part of the program. The program dealt with overcoming the concerns that the long distance from the country's center area and lack of development might arouse absorption issues. By ongoing employment assistance, tailor-fitted social programming and a personal guidance system by the local Go Beyond-North staff the transition chances are higher. Applications for the program are reviewed on a case-by-case basis.

Due to the joint venture of the Jewish Agency for Israel and Nefesh B'Nefesh, an oleh can take advantage of a "one-stop shop" offering both aliyah approval and the Go Beyond-North application services. 

The budget for the initiative stands on the total sum of $10 million US dollars. A major source of the budget is The Russell Berrie Foundation donation, with additional funding from the Government of Israel and the Jewish National Fund.

In 2013, Nefesh B'Nefesh, KKL and JNF-USA created "Go South," incentivizing olim moving to southern Israel.

The Ori program assists Lone National Service Volunteer olim with their needs during their year of service. In its first year, 2019, Ori helped 150 girls from all over the world, who completed their national service in medical institutions, educational facilities, and government organizations.

Criticism
In late 2012, the Haaretz newspaper published an investigation that made claims against Nefesh B'Nefesh alleging that the organization has not significantly increased aliyah since its founding, that it has double-billed the government for olim who arrived with the assistance of other organizations, and that its employee salaries were bloated. Nefesh B'Nefesh denied Haaretzs accusations and maintained that government audited figures showed a 140% increase of aliyah in the ten years of the organization's operation, and that another five-year comprehensive government audit found no irregularities or duplication in Nefesh B'Nefesh's invoicing protocol. Nefesh B'Nefesh also stated that its salaries were well within comparative norms and counter claimed that the Haaretz article was politically motivated.

In 2014, writing for The Times of Israel, Haviv Rettig Gur claimed the recent raise in aliyah had "nothing to do with the organization's laudable work which eased the aliya process for immigrants' but did nothing to increase their numbers." Gur criticized Nefesh B'Nefesh for taking credit for an increase in aliyah that was already on the rebound. He backed up his claim with official statistics that showed American aliyah was just as high in the mid 1990s and that the post year 2000 peak simply "marked an American aliya that had recovered from the terrorism-driven dip of the previous decade."

Partners
Nefesh B'Nefesh works in partnership with the following organizations:
Friends of the Israel Defense Forces
Jewish Agency for Israel
Jewish National Fund
Marcus Foundation
Ministry for the Development of the Negev and Galilee
Ministry of Immigrant Absorption
Prime Minister's Office

See also

American Zionist Movement
Birthright Israel
Zionist Organization of America
Yom Haaliyah

References

Further reading

External links

Nefesh B'Nefesh at the Jewish National Fund
Nefesh B'Nefesh at Arutz Sheva

501(c)(3) organizations
Aliyah
Diaspora organizations
Immigrant services organizations
International organizations based in Israel
Jewish charities based in Israel
Non-profit organizations based in Israel
Organizations based in Jerusalem
Organizations established in 2001
Zionist organizations