[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Hogle Zoo

inated by the Polar Bear Species Survival Plan. His mate, Neva, a five-year-old from the Maryland Zoo, arrived on November 16, 2021. The two have been introduced to each other, and zoo officials are hopeful the pair will produce offspring continuing Hogle Zoo's long history with polar bear breeding.

Rescues
Many of the animals that live in Rocky Shores were rescued from the wild and have now found permanent homes in Utah. In July 2010, three grizzly bear cubs were left orphaned after their mother killed a man and injured two others outside of Yellowstone National Park and needed to be euthanized. The cubs were too young to survive on their own in the wild, so it was determined that they would live out the rest of their lives in captivity. The cubs, two females named Dolly and Lou Lou and a male named Koda, were first sent to Zoo Montana, then New York's Buffalo Zoo, before finding a forever home at Rocky Shores in 2012.  Most, if not all, grizzly bears in AZA accredited facilities are rescues. They are not bred to ensure space for more rescues. Koda, Dolly, and Lou Lou play an important role at Hogle Zoo educating guests on how to safely interact with wildlife to ensure an event like theirs doesn't happen. 

One of Hogle Zoo's male California sea lions, Maverick, is also a rescue. He was found abandoned on a beach in California at less than a year old. Maverick was rehabilitated at the Fort MacArthur Marine Mammal Center in San Pedro, California. Because of his young age and his sustained injuries, Maverick was not eligible for release back into the wild. Hogle Zoo has provided a permanent home for Maverick since his arrival on May 5, 2012.

Female bald eagle Marie and male Nemo were both found injured in Alaska. They were taken in by the Alaska Raptor Center in Sitka. Their injuries required slight amputations to their wings. Unable to fly, the pair had no chance of survival in the wild. Nemo arrived at Hogle Zoo in spring of 2016 where Marie would join him a couple of years later. 

Rocky Shores has become a haven for rescued animals, giving them a place where they can lead natural lives and receive the specialized care they need. Since the exhibit's opening in 2012, Rocky Shores has been home to ten rescued animals.

African Savanna 

In the fall of 2012, Hogle Zoo broke ground on an expansive 4.5 acre complex that would showcase animals from east Africa's grasslands. The project transformed the heart of the zoo which previously was home to the zoo's Discoveryland. The exhibit became the zoo's first mixed-species habitat showcasing several species together as they would be in the wild. Plans for the complex first started in 1999 under the directorship of Craig Dinsmore when he proposed an $80 million-plus renovation of the 42 acre zoo. Despite public support for an African Savanna habitat which would greatly increase the animal welfare of its animals, the zoo struggled to finance the exhibit. In 2007, Hogle Zoo lost a bid for $65 million in taxpayer money. The following year, the zoo was funded $33 million through a Salt Lake County general-obligation bond. This helped fund a new animal hospital (2009), the zoo's Rocky Shores exhibit (2012), and finally the $16 million African Savanna.

The exhibit was completed in two phases beginning with Lion Hill which had a soft opening in May 2014. The exhibit officially debuted with the completion of the Grasslands on June 2, 2014. The exhibit is anchored by Twigga Terrace, a fifty-foot in diameter platform that looks out onto the habitat. Daily giraffe feeds are offered on the terrace during summer months where guests can come face-to-face with the tallest land animal. On June 6, 2019, the zoo debuted the James E. Hogle Jr. Meerkat Manor which added meerkats and crested porcupines to the African Savanna. All habitats in the African Savanna are outlined by amazing views of the Rocky Mountains that surround the landscape.

Lion Hill
Before the opening of Lion Hill, African lions had been absent from Hogle Zoo for a decade. The zoo's former lions were housed in the Feline Building, a series of grottos and barred cages reminiscent of typical 1800s zoo designs. However, when lions returned to Hogle Zoo, their habitat was state-of-the-art.

Lion Hill features two grottos with freshwater and a grassy hill topped with a large rock for the lions to bask in. Large class walls allow guests to come nose-to-nose with the large big cats. Heated rock work allows the lions to be comfortable outside during Utah's cold winters. The naturalistic exhibit overlooks the adjacent Grasslands habitat, giving the lions ample enrichment opportunities. The habitat also features a training wall, allowing guests to view daily training demonstrations between keepers and the lions.