[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# December 1977

77 of the 150 seats in the Second Chamber, a majority of only two.
Died: 
Nellie Tayloe Ross, 101, the first woman governor of a U.S. state, Governor of Wyoming 1925 to 1927
Vice Admiral Takeo Kurita, 88, Japanese Navy officer and commander of the Imperial Navy 2nd Fleet in the Battle of Leyte Gulf

December 20, 1977 (Tuesday)
A 5.9 magnitude earthquake struck Iran at 4:34 in the morning Iran Standard Time (23:34 on 19 December UTC) and killed 584 people while injuring more than 1,000 others.
In Argentina, the bodies of five women washed ashore on the coastline of Santa Teresita in the Province of Buenos Aires. Almost 30 years later, the bodies would be identified as those of five people suspected of having become "desaparecidos", last seen on December 10 after the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo group had published an advertisement listening the names of their adult children who had been kidnapped and never seen again. Based on the condition of the bodies, which had indicated "impact on hard objects from a great height", investigators would conclude that the victims had their corpses dropped into the sea as part of a "death flight" ("vuelo de la muerte"). DNA evidence showed that the five dead were all organizers of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo, Azucena Villaflor, Esther Ballestrino, María Ponce de Bianco, Ángela Auad, and Léonie Duquet.
After decades of the denial of United Nations membership to both North Vietnam and South Vietnam, the Socialist Republic of Vietnam — the union of both countries following South Vietnam's conquest by the north in 1975— was admitted to the UN. The newly independent Republic of Djibouti was admitted on the same day.
Jesse Walter Bishop of Nevada, who in 1979 would become the first person to be executed in the gas chamber since the reinstatement of the death penalty in the U.S. (and the second American legally executed overall) committed the killing that would lead to his death sentence. Bishop had walked into a casino in Las Vegas and shot David Ballard, a customer at the El Morocco Casino who had gotten married earlier in the day. Thompson died of his injuries 10 days later.

December 21, 1977 (Wednesday)
The final stage of the U.S. superhighway Interstate 75 was opened, almost 20 years after construction had started for what would become the primary travel route from Canada (starting at the border crossing at Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan to the Gulf of Mexico at Tampa, Florida. The two  stretches of highway were joined when the barricades were lifted on the last  segment between Cartersville, Georgia and Marietta.
Born: 
Emmanuel Macron, President of France since 2017; in Amiens, Somme département
Iyabo Ojo, Nigerian film actress and producer known for Divorce Not Allowed; in LagosDied: Herbert Seddon, 74, British orthopedic surgeon; in Derby, Derbyshire
Sean Keating, 88, Irish painter

 December 22, 1977 (Thursday)
In the U.S., a grain elevator exploded in Westwego, Louisiana, killing 36 people. The blast happened at 9:10 in the morning local time when a Norwegian ship, MV Vesteroy, was being loaded with grain from one of the silos at Continental Grain Company. A chain reaction from the first events set off similar explosions in 45 storage units."Death Toll Rises to 32 in Grain Elevator Blast in Louisiana; 4 More Feared Trapped", Los Angeles Times, December 24, 1977, p.I-1
In the U.S., an artist from Hawaii tried to kill himself by leaping from the 86th floor of the Empire State Building in New York City. After he jumped, a  wind blew him back against the building and he landed on a  wide ledge on the 85th floor. According to an Associated Press report, "Helms lay stunned on the ledge about half an hour before he could open a window to the NBC television transmitter room on the 85th floor and crawl inside about 7:15 p.m., police said."Died: Karl John, 72, German film actor

 December 23, 1977 (Friday)
Warships of the Soviet Union intervened for the first time in the Eritrean War of Independence on behalf of the Marxist nation of Ethiopia, which had been losing to the Eritrean People's Liberation Front (EPLF). The Soviet ships struck the coastal city of Massawa, firing artillery shells at EPLF strongholds. The EPLF retreated in a "strategic withdrawal" to the Sahel desert.
English rock musician Cat Stevens (born Steven Georgiou) converted to Islam. He would later change his name to Yusuf Islam. Born: Matt Baker, British TV presenter who hosted the children's show Blue Peter from 1999 to 2006, BBC One's Countryfile since 2009 and the BBC newsmagazine The One Show from 2011 to 2020; in Easington, County Durham 
Nikolay Alexeyev, Russian lawyer and LGBT rights activist; in Moscow