[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 16]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

by her godmother, Miss Fortescue. She put
aside this, for her purpose. Further delay, through Mrs. Trevelyan,
brought the season round again to autumn, before Algitha was able to
make her final preparations for departure.

"Do try and reconcile them to the idea," she said to her sister, as they
stood on the platform of Ballochcoil station, very white and
wretched-looking.

"It breaks my heart to see father look so fixed and angry, and mother so
miserable. I am not going away for ever. Dear me, a day's journey will
bring me back, at any time."

"I'll do my best," said Hadria, "here's your train; what a clumsy
instrument of fate it does look!"

There was not much time for farewells. In a few minutes the train was
steaming out of the station. A solitary figure stood on the platform,
watching the monster curving and diminishing along the line, with its
white smoke soaring merrily into the air, in great rolling masses, that
melted, as if by some incantation, from thick, snow-like whiteness to
rapid annihilation.




CHAPTER V.


As Hadria drove over the winding upland road back to her home, her
thoughts followed her sister into her new existence, and then turned
wistfully backwards to the days that had been marked off into the past
by Algitha's departure. How bright and eager and hopeful they had all
been, how full of enthusiasm and generous ambitions! Even as they talked
of battle, they stretched forth their hands for the crown of victory.

At the last meeting of the Preposterous Society, Ernest had repeated a
poem of his favourite Emerson, called _Days_, and the poem, which
was familiar to Hadria, sounded in her memory, as the pony trotted merrily
along the well-known homeward way.

          "Daughters of Time, the hypocritic Days,
           Muffled and dumb, like barefoot Dervishes,
           And marching single in an endless file,
           Bring diadems and faggots in their hands.
           To each they offer gifts after his will,
           Bread, kingdoms, stars, and sky that holds them all.
           I, in my pleached garden, watched the pomp,
           Forgot my morning wishes, hastily
           Took a few herbs and apples, and the Day
           Turned and departed silent. I, too late,
           Under her solemn fillet saw the scorn."

In spite of Hadria's memorable lecture of a year ago, it was still the
orthodox creed of the Society, that Circumstance is the handmaid of the
Will; that one can demand of one's days "bread, kingdoms, stars, or
sky," and that the Days will obediently produce the objects desired. If
one has but the spirit that can soar high enough to really be resolved
upon stars, or the ambition sufficiently vaulting to be determined on
kingdoms, then--so ran the dogma--stars and kingdoms would be
forthcoming, though obstacles were never so determined. No member except
Hadria had ever dreamt of insinuating that one might have a very
pronounced taste for stars and kingdoms--nay, a taste so dominant that
life would be worthless unless they were achieved--yet might be forced,
by the might of events, to forego them. Hadria's own heresy had been of
the head rather than of the heart. But to-day, feeling began to share
the scepticism of the intellect.

What if one's stars and kingdoms lay on the further side of a crime or a
cruelty?

What then was left but to gather up one's herbs and apples, and bear, as
best one might, the scorn of the unjust Days?

Hadria cast about in her mind for a method of utilizing to the best
advantage possible, the means at her disposal: to force circumstance to
yield a harvest to her will. To be the family consolation meant no light
task, for Mrs. Fullerton was exacting by nature: she had given much, and
she expected much in return. Her logic was somewhat faulty, but that
could not be gracefully pointed out to her by her daughter. Having
allowed her own abilities to decay, Mrs. Fullerton had developed an
extraordinary power of interfering with the employment of the abilities
of others. Hadria had rather underrated than exaggerated this
difficulty. Her mother would keep her for hours, discussing a trivial
point of domestic business, giving elaborate directions about it, only
to do it herself in the end. She spent her whole life in trifles of this
kind, or over social matters. Everything was done cumbrously, with an
incredible amount of toil and consideration, and without any noticeable
results. Hadria, fighting against a multitude of harassing little
difficulties, struggled to turn the long winter months to some use. But
Mrs. Fullerton broke the good serviceable time into jagged fragments.

"I really can't see," said the mother, when the daughter proposed to set
apart certain hours for household duties, and to have other portions of
the day to herself, "I really can't see why a girl's little occupations
should be treated with so much consideration. However, I have n