[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Guibord case

the burial of the deceased by the church officials, according to custom and law in the same way as any other parishioner who dies with the status of a Roman Catholic, and to enter his name in the parochial register according to law.  He also ordered that the church officials pay Brown's court costs.

Court of Review
The church officials then appealed to the Court of Review, which heard argument on 23 June 1870.  On 10 September 1870, that Court allowed the appeal and dismissed the widow's petition.  Speaking for the Court, Mr Justice Mackay held that the pleadings and judgment below were both defective.  A writ of mandamus is only available to give specific, defined relief.  The order to have Guibord buried "according to custom and law" was not a specific remedy, as it did not make clear where the burial was to take place.  The church officials could comply with it by burying him in the portion for non-Roman Catholics, which would not be satisfactory to the widow.  As well, the order to fill out the parochial records was defective, since the church officials named in the petition did not have custody of the parochial records.  Finally, the decision below was bad for dismissing the church officials' plea of their religious freedom.

Court of Queen's Bench

Brown then appealed to the Quebec Court of Queen's Bench (Appeal Side).

When the matter first came on for argument, on 2 December 1870, Brown's counsel applied to have four of the judges who were about to hear the appeal recuse themselves under s. 176 of the Code of Civil Procedure.  They argued that one of the points in issue was the extent of the civil courts' power over the church, which was denied by Roman Catholic church doctrine under pain of anathema and excommunication.  Since the four judges (Chief Justice Duval and Justices Caron, Badgley and Monk) were Roman Catholics, counsel argued that they "acknowledged the authority of the Roman power" and could be under the threat of excommunication if they did not rule in favour of the church officials.  The Court heard argument on the motion for recusation and reserved their decision.  A week later, on 9 December 1870, they gave their decision, refusing to receive the petitions for recusation, or to allow them to be entered in the register of the Court.  The Court, composed of Duval C.J., Caron, Drummond, Badgely and Monk, then heard the appeal.

On 7 September 1871, the Queen's Bench unanimously dismissed Brown's appeal and upheld the decision of the Court of Review, but on divided grounds, with each judge giving reasons:

 Caron J. held that the original writ was void for not containing a command;  that it was defective in being addressed to both the curé and the fabrique, as only the curé had superintendence of burials and entries in the register;  that the petition was only for civil burial, which the church officials had offered to perform;  and that the church officials' condition that the burial be in a particular part of the burial ground was reasonable.
 Duval C.J. agreed with Caron J., but based his judgment on the defect in the form of the writ.
 Drummond J. held that the writ was right in form, but agreed that the appeal should be dismissed because the civil courts had no jurisdiction to order ecclesiastical burial when refused by the ecclesiastical authorities.
 Badgley J. held that the writ was right in form, and that the courts did have the power to order the performance of the duties although affecting spiritual rights, but agreed that the appeal should be dismissed because the writ commanded the performance of two duties, the burial and the entry into the parochial register, and the church officials named in the petition had no power to carry out the command to enter the burial in the parochial register.
 Monk J. held that the writ and all proceedings were regular and sufficient, but agreed that the appeal should be dismissed because the courts had no jurisdiction over the matters in dispute.

The Court ordered Brown to pay the church officials' court costs.

Appeal to the Judicial Committee

Standing of the Institut to Appeal following Brown's Death 
Brown then applied successfully for leave to appeal to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, at that time the court of last resort within the British Empire.  However, before her appeal could be heard, Brown died on 24 March 1873.  In her will, she left all that she had to the Institut Canadien.  The Institut then applied to be allowed to prosecute the appeal, on the basis that as Brown's heir, the Institut was liable to pay the court costs in the Quebec courts and therefore had a legitimate interest in the litigation.  In an interim decision in 1873, the Judicial Committee gave the Institut standing to carry the appeal, without prejudice to the church officials' right to challenge the standing at the hearing of the appeal.