[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kent Bellows

nce of nineteenth-century American painter, Thomas Eakins, on his work, and referred to him as his “great American hero.” He described Gregory Gillespie, a contemporary figurative artist, as another great inspiration.

In 1993, Bellows left Tatistcheff Gallery to join Forum Gallery in New York City.

Following his 1991 divorce, Bellows had continued to reside in his midtown Omaha home along with his two teenage stepdaughters, but by 1994, they had moved out, and he sold the house to a long-time friend. Bellows moved into his nearby studio building, where he lived and worked for the remainder of his life.

During the 1990s, Bellows’ works were included in exhibits at: 
Tatistcheff Gallery, New York City
Museum of Nebraska Art, Kearney, Nebraska
Arkansas Arts Center, Little Rock, Arkansas
North Miami Center of Contemporary Art, Miami, Florida
Midtown Payson Gallery, New York City
Chicago International Art Exposition, Navy Pier, Chicago, Illinois
Philbrook Museum of Art, Tulsa, Oklahoma
Forum Gallery, New York City
Art Dealers' Association of America, Seventh Regiment Armory, New York City
Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.

2000-2005
By 2003, Bellows had begun expressing great concern about increasing pain and diminished flexibility in his left wrist and hand, apparently related to the earlier surgery, overuse, and an additional developing condition known as Dupuytren's contracture, common in his mother's family. Bellows’ ability to work was increasingly impacted.

Between 2000 and 2005, Bellows’ works were included in exhibits at:
Art Dealers’ Association of America, Seventh Regiment Armory, New York City
Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, Nebraska
Forum Gallery, New York City
Museum of Nebraska Art, Kearney, Nebraska
New Jersey Center for Visual Arts, Summit, New Jersey
Chicago International Art Exhibition, Navy Pier, Chicago, Illinois
Neuberger Museum of Art, Purchase, New York.

His works were featured in The Gettysburg Review, Spring, 2004.

Bellows’ works have been acquired by museums and galleries which include the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the New Britain Museum of American Art, the Toledo Museum of Art, the Arkansas Arts Center, Joslyn Art Museum, and by many collectors including Glenn C. Jans, Jalane and Richard Davidson, Rita Rich, Richard D. Segal (Seavest Collection), and Howard Tullman.

In September 2005, Kent Bellows was found in his studio/home, apparently having died in his sleep. He was 56 years of age. The cause of death was never determined.

2007
The Kent Bellows Foundation was established as a public, nonprofit charity and began the work of preserving Kent Bellows’ building and studio as an educational site and establishing the Kent Bellows Art Scholarship Fund and Kent Bellows Mentoring Program, as well as developing Bellows’ lifetime catalog raisonne.

References

20th-century American painters
American male painters
21st-century American painters
Realist painters
1949 births
2005 deaths
People from Blair, Nebraska
20th-century American male artists