[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Manasseh Sogavare

in opposition. He remained in office in a caretaker capacity until the election of a new Prime Minister on 20 December, when opposition candidate Derek Sikua was elected, defeating Patteson Oti who had been Foreign Minister under Sogavare. On the same date, Sogavare became Leader of the Opposition.

Leader of the Opposition (2007–2014)
In 2010, Sogavare and eight other MPs established the Ownership, Unity and Responsibility Party, which won three seats in the 2010 general election.

Prime Minister (third term, 2014–2017)

Following the 19 November, 2014 general election, Sogavere became Prime Minister for the third time. On 22 September 2017 Sogavare spoke at the United Nations General Assembly. He condemned North Korea for their testing of ballistic missiles. He also condemned Indonesia for violence in West Papua. On 7 November 2017, seventeen members of his Democratic Coalition for Change voted against him in another motion of no-confidence. The lawmaker who submitted the motion of no confidence, Derek Sikua, claimed that Sogavere had lost touch with reality and become fixated on conspiracy theories, while Sogavere attributed the defections to a proposed anti-graft bill, saying that some MPs were afraid it would lead to them being imprisoned. Sogavere remained as Acting Prime Minister until Rick Houenipwela was elected on 15 November 2017.

Prime Minister (fourth term, 2019–present)

On 24 April 2019, he was once again elected Prime Minister with more than half the vote. There is controversy surrounding the election since a court issued an injunction to postpone the vote. The Governor General, Frank Kabui, chose to proceed with the election because, under the constitution of the Solomon Islands, the Governor-general has immunity from the courts when conducting the election of the prime minister. After Sogavare was re-elected there was rioting in Honiara forcing shops and offices to close. Additionally, rioters did damage to the Pacific Casino Hotel which was used by Sogavare as his campaign headquarters.

On 16 September 2019, Sogavare's government recognised the People's Republic of China (PRC), switching recognition from the Republic of China after 36 years. In a statement Sogavare announced the decision as representing an advance of Solomon Islands national interests, an outcome of a bi-partisan taskforce to investigate and confirm the facts surrounding the 'One China Principle', and reporting by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and External Trade. Responding to questions about caucus unity on the decision, Sogavare presented it as "a collective agreement agreed to by all the Democratic Coalition Government for Advancement (DCGA) coalition MPs elected into the 11th parliament, conducted in a very open and transparent manner as far as government caucus is concerned". The decision caused significant political and public debate in Solomon Islands. In the wake of the decision, planning minister Rick Hou and justice minister, Tautai Kaitu'u were sacked. Hou claimed Sogavare lied about the process for recognising the PRC, claiming the decision was pre-determined. Deputy Prime Minister John Maneniaru and Education Minister Dean Kuku were terminated, with Police Minister Lanelle Tanagada opting to resign.

Malaita Province, however, continued to be supported by Taiwan and the United States, the latter sending US$25 million of aid to the island in 2020. The premier of Malaita Province, Daniel Suidani, also held an independence referendum in 2020 which the national government has dismissed as illegitimate. 

Riots broke out in November 2021 during which anti-government protesters, most of them from Malaita Province, burnt down buildings adjoining the Solomon Islands Parliament Building, while also looting Honiara's Chinatown. Sogavare himself resisted calls to resign, warning that the rioters would "face consequences" while also accusing them of being "politically motivated".

Australia responded to the unrest by deploying Australian Federal Police and Australian Defence Force personnel following a request from the Sogavare government under the Australia-Solomon Islands Bilateral Security Treaty. Papua New Guinea and Fiji also sent peacekeepers.

On 6 December 2021, he survived a motion of no confidence in the National Parliament.

Church dedication
Sogavare dedicated the Sogavare Memorial Seventh-day Adventist Church in memory of his father Sagavare Loko.

References

External links

|-

|-

|-

|-

1955 births
Finance Ministers of the Solomon Islands
Independent politicians of the Solomon Islands
Leaders of the Opposition (Solomon Islands)
Living people
Members of the National Parliament of the Solomon Islands
Ownership, Unity and Responsibility Party politicians
People from Choiseul Province
People from Oro Province
People's Progressive Party (Solomon Islands) politicians
Prime Ministers of the Solomon Islands
Solomon Islands Seventh-day Adventists
Solomon Islands Social Credit Party politicians