[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hogle Zoo

tional herd."

The zoo noted that the possible return of elephants will be evaluated in a new master plan which is currently being developed. The zoo has yet to announce which facility the elephants will be sent to or what will be housed in Elephant Encounter once the animals leave.

Asian Highlands

Just months after the opening of Elephant Encounter in 2005, construction began on Asian Highlands, the second project funded by the 2003 $10.2 million bond. The exhibit sought to convert the dated indoor Feline Complex's barred concrete cages into lush outdoor habitats for cats from the colder regions of central Asia. The zoo's existing female Amur tiger and snow leopard would enjoy the new habitats as well as new additions to the zoo including a male Amur leopard, a male Amur tiger, a male snow leopard, a trio of Siberian lynx brothers, and eventually Pallas cats. The exhibit opened on June 29, 2006.

Asian Highlands resembles a village in the Himalayas with five lush hillside exhibits of which the cats rotate between through a system of chutes. A large catwalk connects from the holding areas (the renovated existing Feline Complex) to the main habitat allowing the cats, usually reserved for tigers, to walk over guests. The central plaza, themed with prayer flags, includes Cat Wok Cafe and Grandma's House, an indoor interpretive area with a window into one of the habitats. Realistic rock work, plantings, and water features along with the geographic theming proved to be the exact upgrades the area needed.

In May 2015, four male Turkmenian markhor from the Bronx Zoo took up residence in the rocky habitats above Asian Highlands that once held bighorn sheep and stone sheep adding to the exhibit's diversity of mountain dwelling Asian species. Two Chinese goral would later join them but have since left the zoo's collection.

The success of Hogle Zoo's Asian Highlands solidified the facility as a zoo on the come up. The theming of the exhibit influenced other exhibits including San Diego Zoo's Asian Leopards exhibit in 2015, Denver Zoo's the EDGE in 2017, and Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo and Aquarium's Asian Highlands in 2019.

Species Survival Plan success
Hogle Zoo's success in its participation of Species Survival Plans is most noted in its prolific breeding at Asian Highlands. The first babies of Asian Highlands were born in 2009.

Three male Amur tiger cubs were born on June 2, 2009, to mother Basha and father Kazek. Bronevik, Kiril, and Vikenti, as they were named, have since moved to other accredited facilities to participate in the program themselves. Kiril travelled the farthest, moving to Japan as part of the Global Species Management Program.

The zoo's former snow leopard mated pair, Nema and Himesh produced two offspring. Nema first gave birth to male cub Himal on May 7, 2009. She had another male cub on April 16, 2012. Chimeegui still resides in Asian Highlands, where he is recommended to breed with female Babs.

Two litters of Pallas cats have been born to parents Haru and Patenka in 2017 and 2018. The pair have produced a total of nine kittens.

Possibly Hogle Zoo's most significant contribution to the Species Survival Plan is their breeding success with Amur leopards. The species is commonly considered the most endangered big cat in the world. Around 300 individuals are left in their native habitat of Far East Russia and northeast China. Around 200 exist in zoos globally. To help boost the gene pool of the American captive population, female Zeya was brought to Hogle Zoo in 2016 from a facility in Kent, England, to breed with the zoo's resident male Dmitri. Since 2017, the Amur leopard pair have produced four litters and a total of seven cubs, most recently Jordan and Chelsea on December 25, 2021.

These SSP programs are important for creating a surplus for these species who are at the brink of extinction.

Red pandas return
To the delight of Utah's public, red pandas returned to Hogle Zoo on May 2, 2018, with the opening of the Janet Quinney Lawson Red Panda Exhibit. The species was absent from the park when construction began on Rocky Shores in 2010. A new exhibit for the charismatic creatures was constructed at the entrance of Asian Highlands. This was the first of two exhibits constructed under the directorship of Steve Burns.

On June 23, 2023, after an approximate 132-day pregnancy, the zoo's female red panda Priya gave birth to a cub. Priya arrived at Hogle Zoo in June 2022 on a breeding recommendation. She was paired with the zoo's resident male Mow Mow. This was the first red panda birth in the zoo's history.

Rocky Shores