[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act

nt in the final version of the AETA.

In 2013, animal rights activists filed a lawsuit to challenge the AETA for criminalizing what they called protected First Amendment speech. Their lawsuit was dismissed by a federal judge who determined that the plaintiffs had no standing.

Criminal prosecutions 

The bill was passed in response to the then-ongoing prosecution of members of Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (SHAC), an activist group that worked to close animal testing laboratories. Six members of the group were charged and put on trial for a "multi-faceted" and decentralized grassroots activist campaign against Huntingdon Life Sciences. While there was no proof that the actual defendants committed or had any knowledge of the overwhelming majority of the illegal acts at issue, they were convicted under the AETA's conspiracy provisions. On appeal, the Third Circuit upheld the convictions because the defendants’ membership in the group, participation in political protests, as well as unrelated speeches, interviews, publications, and internet postings constituted "sufficient circumstantial evidence" for a jury to infer a conspiracy. One defendant was convicted for providing "technical assistance" for the group's website because the website was then used by others to organize unlawful acts. At least one of the defendants was placed in an exceptionally restrictive Communication Management Unit, reserved for inmates the government considers terrorist threats.

In 2009, four individuals were indicted under the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act for alleged harassment, intimidation, and violent acts at the homes of professors conducting research involving animal testing. While the charges were eventually dismissed, the defendants were placed under house arrest for almost a year. The FBI alleges that these individuals were part of groups engaged in trespassing, attempted forcible entry of a private residence, and distribution of leaflets that resulted in the firebombing of two residences.

In July 2014, two men were indicted for "animal enterprise terrorism" after releasing 2,000 foxes and mink from fur farms. Their lawyer announced plans to challenge the constitutionality of the law.

Confessions

In July 2019, Charlotte Laws confessed in an article that she may have violated the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act when she helped rescue pigeons out from under Torrance Police and animal control.

See also
 Ag-gag
 Animal law
 Terrorism

References

Further reading

External links
Text of the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act
Earlier House version of the bill (H.R. 4239)
Transcript of the House Judiciary Committee hearing on the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act
ACLU Letter to Congress Opposing the AETA
ACLU Letter to James Sensenbrenner Supporting an Amended AETA
U.S. terror hunt targets animal activists (Toronto Star) 
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Action Alert Regarding the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Action Alert Regarding the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act
House Passes Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act With Little Discussion or Dissent

Acts of the 109th United States Congress
United States federal criminal legislation
Terrorism laws in the United States
Animal rights
Animal welfare and rights legislation in the United States