[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Handmaid's Tale (opera)

een Margarethe attended the performance every month for four months when the opera premiered in 2000.

Language
The Handmaid's Tale was from the beginning composed for Paul Bentley's  English libretto alongside Ruders' Danish translation of the libretto. The Danish title was Tjenerindens fortælling.

The Danish Royal Opera who commissioned the work wanted the opera performed in Danish, but performances outside Denmark have all been sung in English.

Music 
With the challenge of reflecting the complexity and discomfort of the novel, Ruders' music accurately represents the emotions depicted in the novel. The music alternates between harsh dissonances and sections of religious devotion, suggesting the brutal theocracy of Gilead. The dramatic points of the opera are illustrated by Ruders' rigid, metallic score. Some might see the music as dry and overly dissonant, but it sets a compelling environment for the story. Ruders uses extravagant lyrics for the love scenes in both Offred's affair in Gilead and in her memories. In contrast, he utilizes a unique blend of wolf-whistles and shrieks to show an opposite emotion in a scene where a doctor offers to impregnate her, while in another scene at an undercover brothel has a more upbeat, cabaret-like score.

Adaptation from Novel to Opera 
The conversion of a highly complex first-person narrative into a third-person opera was a significantly difficult task that Bentley faced when creating the opera. Through his moving and faithful libretto, Bentley solved the problem of converting the novel into a coherent and effective opera. As he had to simplify the events of the novel, he chose to keep the separation scene of Offred from her husband, Luke, and their child. The reasoning for this is that it stands as a dividing line between the time before and the present. Bentley's effective libretto illustrates the consequences that come from constructing a world of ritual repression while also showing a compelling representation of both Offred's present and past lives.

In contrast with the novel, where the reader discovers at the end that the text is meant to be a reconstruction of a 200-year-old text from multiple cassette tapes, the opera's video conference taking place in the year 2195 shown in the Prologue and Epilogue frames the work from the beginning while also distancing it.

With the novel's first-person narration, the account we witness is personal and intimate based on the main character's own experience. Through this approach, the subjectivity of the narrative is apparent because the story only has direct insight into one person's perspective rather than revealing the thoughts and intentions of other characters. The direct, objective storytelling nature of theatrical opera opens the story to the audience as eyewitnesses to the events happening on stage. Rather than perceiving the events through the filter of the main character, the audience has a chance to create their own perceptions.

There is a clear distinction between reality and fiction in the production. Opening the opera and introducing the audience to the setting of an academic conference, crossing the threshold into the conference hall, acts as a surprise that can be compared to the surprise of the novel's ending. Crossing over between the distinctions of the opera auditorium and the numerous settings of fictionalized space prompts the audience to raise questions of dramatic genres and to also question the relationship between fiction and reality. The framing device being placed at the beginning of the opera places the core story in a delicate position with several layers of reality that overlap each other. This position highlights the subjective angle and underlines the problems of the relationship between reality and fiction.

References

 Programme for the 2003 London performances of The Handmaid's Tale.
 A Handmaid's Diary by Paul Bentley, librettist, pub. Edition Wilhelm Hansen 2004

External links
 Interview with Ruders about the opera
 Negative Guardian review of London premiere
 Positive USA Today review of Minnesota premiere
Positive New York Times review of Boston production
Boston Lyric Opera web site

Operas by Poul Ruders
Feminist science fiction
Science fiction operas
English-language operas
Operas set in the United States
2000 operas
Operas based on novels
Operas
Danish-language operas
The Handmaid's Tale