[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Colville

ir Thomas Picton, but in February 1814 Lord Wellington appointed him permanently to the 5th division in the place, of Sir James Leith. With it he served under Sir John Hope in the siege of Bayonne, and it was Colville who superintended the final embarkation of the last English troops left in France.

Colville's services were well-rewarded; he received a cross with one clasp; he was made a K.C.B. in January and a G.C.B. in March, 1815; he was appointed colonel of the 94th regiment in April 1815. When the return of Napoleon from Elba made it necessary for a British Army to be sent to the continent, he was made a local lieutenant-general in the Netherlands at Wellington's special request, and took command of the 4th Division there. Colville's division was posted on the extreme right of the British division at Halle during the Battle of Waterloo. To compensate him for not being more actively engaged there, Wellington gave him the duty of storming Cambrai, the only French fortress which did not immediately surrender. He succeeded with the loss of only thirty men killed and wounded.

Post active-duty service
Colville did not again see active service. He was promoted lieutenant-general in 1819, and was commander-in-chief of the Bombay Army from 1819 to 1825. From 17 June 1828 to 3 February 1833, Colville was 3rd Governor of Mauritius when the population of 100,000 (two-thirds in slavery) were in semi revolt against the crown. In 1829 he described the mentalité esclavagiste (slave mentality) of the island's land owning inhabitants, who were extremely hostile to any reforms of slaves' working conditions. In 1830 he reported that there was "a great deal of bad feeling against His Majesty’s Government continues to prevail and shew itself here… there is an almost total cessation in the payment of taxes..." He was briefly Colonel of the 14th (Buckinghamshire) Regiment before being appointed colonel of the 5th (Northumberland Fusiliers) Regiment of Foot in March 1835.

Colville was promoted to general on 10 January 1837, and died on 27 March 1843 at Rosslyn House, Hampstead.

Legacy
There is a decorative bush, a member of the legume family which is called Colvillea racemosa in his honour, in fact the genus is called Colvillea

In his novel Les Misérables Victor Hugo credits Colville (or Maitland) with asking for the surrender of the Imperial Guard and receiving General Cambronne's reply of "Merde".

Notes

References

Attribution

|-

 

|-
 

|-
 

|-

1770 births
1843 deaths
British Army generals
Charles
Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath
British Army commanders of the Napoleonic Wars
British Army personnel of the Peninsular War
Royal Northumberland Fusiliers officers
Governors of British Mauritius
Recipients of the Waterloo Medal