[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Murder of Shanda Sharer

ght stated that she hoped to donate a dog every year in honor of Shanda Sharer. A documentary produced by Episode 11 Productions, titled Charlie's Scars, captured Vaught's decision to allow Loveless to train dogs in Shanda's name. The film also has three interviews with Loveless.

In popular culture

In literature and stage plays
The crime was documented in two true crime books, Little Lost Angel by Michael Quinlan and Cruel Sacrifice by Aphrodite Jones; Jones's book on the case became a New York Times Bestseller.

The story was turned into a play by Rob Urbinati called Hazelwood Jr. High, which starred Chloë Sevigny as Tackett. The play was published by Samuel French, Inc. in September 2009.

The poem The Whole World Is Singing by Daphne Gottlieb, is told from the point of view of Shanda Sharer and includes lines from notes written from Shanda Sharer to Amanda Heavrin.

The poem In God's Arms by author Lacy Gray dedicated to the family of Shanda Renee Sharer. It was published February 8, 1993 and May 11, 1995, in the Jeffersonville, Indiana-based newspaper, The Evening News.

On television
"Mean", an episode from the fifth season of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, is based on the murder.

The Cold Case second-season episode "The Sleepover" is loosely based on this crime.

In May 2011, Dr. Phil aired a two-part series on the crime, which featured Shanda Sharer's mother and sister Paije, who both harshly confronted Hope Rippey on the show about her early release, and an interview with Amanda Heavrin.

The murder of Sharer was covered in the first of two segments in the Lifetime series Killer Kids, episode "Jealousy", aired: July 2014.

The Investigation Discovery series The 1990s: The Deadliest Decade, episode "The New Girl" interviews Sharer's mother along with lead police officers, aired: November 2018.

In art
American artist Marlene McCarty used the Shanda Sharer murder as one of the subjects for her Murder Girls series of drawings about teenage female murderers, their sexuality and their relationships. McCarty's drawing titled Melinda Loveless, Toni Lawrence, Hope Rippey, Laurie Tackett, and Shanda Sharer – January 11, 1992 (1:39 am) (2000–2001) is now in the collection of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles.

See also

 Child murder
 Murder of Suzanne Capper
 Murder of Bobby Kent
 Murder of Michele Avila
 Murder of Skylar Neese
 Slender Man stabbing
 Parker–Hulme murder case
 Murder of Sylvia Likens

References

External links
 Charlie's Scars - Documentary related to Shanda Sharer
 Lohr, David. "The Killing Field." Crime Library
  Video about Shanda Sharer murder on YouTube

1992 in Indiana
1993 in Indiana
20th-century American trials
Murder committed by minors
Madison, Indiana
1992 murders in the United States
Crimes in Indiana
January 1992 events in the United States
History of Indiana
Missing person cases in Indiana
Murder in Indiana
Deaths from fire in the United States
Incidents of violence against girls
Violence against women in Indiana