[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Afroyim v. Rusk

1980 case, however—Vance v. Terrazas—the Supreme Court ruled that intent to relinquish citizenship needed to be proved by itself, and not simply inferred from an individual's having voluntarily performed an action designated by Congress as being incompatible with an intent to keep one's citizenship.

The concept of dual citizenship, which previously had been strongly opposed by the U.S. government, has become more accepted in the years since Afroyim. In 1980, the administration of President Jimmy Carter concluded that the Bancroft Treaties—a series of bilateral agreements, formulated between 1868 and 1937, which provided for automatic loss of citizenship upon foreign naturalization of a U.S. citizen—were no longer enforceable, due in part to Afroyim, and gave notice terminating these treaties.  In 1990, the State Department adopted new guidelines for evaluating potential loss-of-citizenship cases, under which the government now assumes in almost all situations that Americans do not in fact intend to give up their citizenship unless they explicitly indicate to U.S. officials that this is their intention.  As explained by Peter J. Spiro, "In the long run, Afroyims vision of an absolute right to retain citizenship has been largely, if quietly, vindicated. As a matter of practice, it is now virtually impossible to lose American citizenship without formally and expressly renouncing it."

While acknowledging that "American citizenship enjoys strong protection against loss under Afroyim and Terrazas", retired journalist Henry S. Matteo suggested, "It would have been more equitable ... had the Supreme Court relied on the Eighth Amendment, which adds a moral tone as well as a firmer constitutional basis, than the Fourteenth."  Matteo also said, "Under Afroyim there is a lack of balance between rights and protections on one hand, and obligations and responsibilities on the other, all four elements of which have been an integral part of the concept of citizenship, as history shows." Political scientist P. Allan Dionisopoulos wrote that "it is doubtful that any [Supreme Court decision] created a more complex problem for the United States than Afroyim v. Rusk", a decision which he believed had "since become a source of embarrassment for the United States in its relationships with the Arab world" because of the way it facilitated dual U.S.–Israeli citizenship and participation by Americans in Israel's armed forces.

After his Supreme Court victory, Afroyim divided his time between West Brighton (Staten Island, New York) and the Israeli city of Safed until his death on May 19, 1984, in West Brighton.Spiro (2005), p. 165.

 See also 
 List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 387
 Reid v. Covert, a Supreme Court case holding that treaties cannot override the Constitution

 Notes 

 References 
 Dionisopoulos, P. Allan (1970–71).  "Afroyim v. Rusk: The Evolution, Uncertainty and Implications of a Constitutional Principle".  Minnesota Law Review 55''':235–257.
 
 Matteo, Henry S. (1997).  Denationalization v. "The Right to Have Rights": The Standard of Intent in Citizenship Loss.  University Press of America.  .
 Spiro, Peter J. (2005). "Afroyim: Vaunting Citizenship, Presaging Transnationality". In Martin, David A.; Schuck, Peter H. (2005). Immigration Stories''. Foundation Press. pp. 147–168.

External links 
 
 
 Summaries of the case at Oyez, Lawnix

1967 in United States case law
History of immigration to the United States
United States Citizenship Clause case law
United States Supreme Court cases
United States Supreme Court decisions that overrule a prior Supreme Court decision
United States Supreme Court cases of the Warren Court
Denaturalization case law