[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Union Navy

The Union Navy was the United States Navy (USN) during the American Civil War, when it fought the Confederate States Navy (CSN). The term is sometimes used carelessly to include vessels of war used on the rivers of the interior while they were under the control of the United States Army, also called the Union Army.

Wartime missions
The primary missions of the Union Navy were:
1. Maintain the blockade of Confederate ports by restraining all blockade runners; declared by President Lincoln on April 19, 1861, and continued until the end of the Rebellion.
2. Meet in combat the war vessels of the CSN.
3. Carry the war to places in the seceded states inaccessible to the Union Army but could be reached by water.
4. Support the Army by providing gunfire support, rapid transport, and communications on the interior rivers.

Administrative organization
The system of naval bureaus was revised in the summer of 1862. Some of the older bureaus were rearranged or had their names altered. The most radical change was the creation of the Bureau of Steam Engineering. 
Department of the Navy
 Secretary of the Navy, Gideon Welles
 Assistant Secretary, Gustavus Vasa Fox
Bureau of Yards and Docks
 Bureau Chief, Joseph Smith
Bureau of Equipment and Recruiting
 Bureau Chief, Andrew H. Foote, Albert N. Smith
Bureau of Navigation
 Bureau Chief, Charles H. Davis
Bureau of Ordnance
Bureau Chief, John A. Dahlgren, Henry A. Wise
Bureau of Construction and Repair
 Bureau Chief, John Lenthall
Bureau of Steam Engineering
Bureau Chief, Benjamin F. Isherwood
Bureau of Provisions and Clothing
 Bureau Chief, Horatio Bridge
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery
 Bureau Chief, William Whelan

Transformation
To accomplish its wartime missions, the Union Navy had to undergo a profound technical and institutional transformation. During the war, sailing vessels were completely supplanted by ships propelled by steam for combat purposes. Vessels of widely differing character were built from the keel up in response to peculiar problems they would encounter. Wooden hulls were first protected by armor plating and soon replaced by iron or steel throughout. Guns were reduced in number but increased in size and range; the reduction was partially compensated by mounting the guns in rotating turrets or pivoting the gun on a curved deck track so they could be turned to fire in any direction.

The institutional changes that were introduced during the war were equally significant. The Bureau of Steam Engineering was added to the bureau system, testimony to the U.S. Navy's conversion from sail to steam. Most important, from the standpoint of Army-Navy cooperation in joint operations, the set of officer ranks was redefined so that each rank in the U.S. Army had its equivalent in the U.S. Navy. Establishing the ranks of admirals also implied a change of naval doctrine, from one favoring single-ship operations to that of employing whole fleets.

A doctrinal shift took place at the same time. Before the war, the United States Navy emphasized single-ship operations, but the nature of the conflict soon made whole fleets necessary. Already at the Battle of Port Royal (November 7, 1861), 77 vessels, including 19 warships, were employed. This was the largest naval expedition ever sailed under the U.S. flag, but the record did not last long. Subsequent operations at New Orleans, Mobile, and several positions in the interior confirmed the importance of large fleets in modern naval operations.

Ships

At the start of the war, the Union Navy had 42 ships in commission. Another 48 were laid up and listed as available for service as soon as crews could be assembled and trained, but few were appropriate. Most were sailing vessels, some were hopelessly outdated, and one () served on Lake Erie and could not be moved to the ocean. During the war, the number in commission was increased by more than a factor 15, so that at the end the U.S. Navy had 671 vessels.