[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Angels in Judaism

In Judaism, angels (, plural:  mal’āḵīm) are supernatural beings that appear throughout the Tanakh (Hebrew Bible), rabbinic literature, apocrypha and pseudepigrapha, and traditional Jewish liturgy as agents of the God of Israel. They are categorized in different hierarchies. Their essence is often associated with fire. The Talmud describes their very essence as fire.

Etymology
Hebrew mal’ākh is the standard word for "messenger", both human and divine, in the Hebrew Bible; it is also related to the words for "angel" in Arabic (malāk ), Aramaic and Ethiopic. It is rarely used for human messengers in Modern Hebrew as the latter is usually denoted by the term shaliyakh (). The noun derives from the verbal consonantal root l-’-k (), meaning specifically "to send with a message" and with time was substituted with more applicable sh-l-h.

In Biblical Hebrew this root is attested only in this noun and in the noun  məlālaḵ, meaning "work", "occupation" or "craftsmanship".

The morphological structure of the word mal’ākh suggests that it is the maqtal form of the root denoting the tool or the means of performing it. The term mal’ākh therefore simply means the one who is sent, often translated as "messenger" when applied to humans; for instance, mal’ākh is the root of the name of the prophet Malachi, whose name means "my messenger". In Modern Hebrew, mal’akh is the general word for "angel".

In the Tanakh (Hebrew biblical texts)
The Hebrew Bible reports that angels appeared to each of the Patriarchs, to Moses, Joshua, and numerous other figures. They appear to Hagar in Genesis 16:9, to Lot in Genesis 19:1, and to Abraham in Genesis 22:11, they ascend and descend Jacob's Ladder in Genesis 28:12 and appear to Jacob again in Genesis 31:11–13. God promises to send one to Moses in Exodus 33:2, and sends one to stand in the way of Balaam in Numbers 22:31.

Isaiah speaks of  "the Angel of the Presence" ("In all their affliction He was afflicted, and the angel of His presence saved them: in His love and in His pity He redeemed them; and He bore them, and carried them all the days of old") (Isaiah 63:9).

The Book of Psalms says "For He Will give His Angels Charge over you, to keep you in all your ways" (Psalms 91:11).

The angel of the  and the origins of angels
The figure of "the angel of the " () has been perceived by generations of exegetes and interpreters as obscure and perplexing. Almost every appearance of this figure in the Hebrew Bible complies to the following pattern:
 The narration introduces the angel of the ;
 He behaves as if he were a deity, e.g. promising fertility (Genesis 21:18), annihilating an army with a single blow (e.g. 2 Kings 19:32–36), or merely delivering a speech in which the angel presents himself as God (e.g. Exodus 3:2–4);
 The interlocutors of this figure address and revere him in a way reserved exclusively to a deity.
As such, the incident leaves the reader with the question whether it was an angel or the deity who had just appeared.

Angels and healing from impurity
There are instances in the Bible where angels have the ability to heal an individual from impurity; however, the question may arise whether seraphim are angels. For example, in the book of Isaiah, Isaiah sees seraphim praising the Lord. Their voices were so powerful that they make the pivots on the thresholds shake and filled the temple with smoke. (Book of Isaiah 6:3–4) All of this power made Isaiah feel unworthy and unclean so he cried out:

In the Book of Zechariah, Joshua was standing before the angel of the Lord, and God. (Zechariah 3:3) He was "dressed in filthy clothes" when standing before them. The angel then commanded him to take off his filthy clothing and gave him "festal apparel" and a clean turban to put on. At the removal of Joshua's filthy clothing, the angel proclaimed, "See, I have taken your guilt away from you." (Zechariah 3:4–5) Thus, the removal of Joshua's filthy clothing was like healing him from his guilt.

Angels and prayer
In the Book of Zechariah, Zechariah hears from the  that He had been angry with his ancestors due to their evil deeds. He promised them that if they "return[ed] to [Him], [He] would return to [them]." Then the angel of the Lord prayed to the Lord and said, "O GOD of Hosts! How long will You withhold pardon from Jerusalem and the towns of Judah, which You placed under a curse seventy years ago?"