[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 35]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

boy that took a great fancy to a snake that
lived in his father's garden; and, when he had the milk for breakfast,
he used to sit under a nut tree and whistle, and the snake would come to
him and eat out of his bowl." _T._--And did it not bite him? _H._--No;
he sometimes used to give it a pat with his spoon, if it ate too fast;
but it never hurt him.

Tommy was much pleased with this conversation; and, being both
good-natured and desirous of making experiments, he determined to try
his skill in taming animals. Accordingly, he took a large slice of bread
in his hand, and went out to seek some animal that he might give it to.
The first thing that he happened to meet was a sucking pig that had
rambled from its mother, and was basking in the sun. Tommy would not
neglect the opportunity of showing his talents; he therefore called Pig,
pig, pig! come hither, little pig! But the pig, who did not exactly
comprehend his intentions, only grunted, and ran away. "You little
ungrateful thing," said Tommy, "do you treat me in this manner, when I
want to feed you? If you do not know your friends I must teach you." So
saying this, he sprang at the pig, and caught him by the hind-leg,
intending to have given him the bread which he had in his hand; but the
pig, who was not used to be treated in that manner, began struggling and
squeaking to that degree, that the sow, who was within hearing, came
running to the place, with all the rest of the litter at her heels. As
Tommy did not know whether she would be pleased with his civilities to
her young one or not, he thought it most prudent to let it go; and the
pig, endeavouring to escape as speedily as possible, unfortunately ran
between his legs and threw him down. The place where this accident
happened was extremely wet; therefore Tommy, in falling, dirtied himself
from head to foot; and the sow, who came up at that instant, passed over
him, as he attempted to rise, and rolled him back again into the mire.

Tommy, who was not the coolest in his temper, was extremely provoked at
this ungrateful return for his intended kindness; and, losing all
patience, he seized the sow by the hind-leg and began pommelling her
with all his might, as she attempted to escape. The sow, as may be
imagined, did not relish such treatment, but endeavoured with all her
force to escape; but Tommy still keeping his hold, and continuing his
discipline, she struggled with such violence as to drag him several
yards, squeaking at the same time in the most lamentable manner, in
which she was joined by the whole litter of pigs.

During the heat of this contest a large flock of geese happened to be
crossing the road, into the midst of which the affrighted sow ran
headlong, dragging the enraged Tommy at her heels. The goslings
retreated with the greatest precipitation, joining their mournful
cackling to the general noise; but a gander of more than common size
and courage, resenting the unprovoked attack which had been made upon
his family, flew at Tommy's hinder parts, and gave him several severe
strokes with his bill.

Tommy, whose courage had hitherto been unconquerable, being thus
unexpectedly attacked by a new enemy, was obliged to yield to fortune,
and not knowing the precise extent of his danger, he not only suffered
the sow to escape, but joined his vociferations to the general scream.
This alarmed Mr Barlow, who, coming up to the place, found his pupil in
the most woeful plight, daubed from head to foot, with his face and
hands as black as those of any chimney-sweeper. He inquired what was the
matter; and Tommy, as soon as he had recovered breath enough to speak,
answered in this manner: "Sir, all this is owing to what you told me
about taming animals; I wanted to make them tame and gentle, and to love
me, and you see the consequences." "Indeed," said Mr Barlow, "I see you
have been ill-treated, but I hope you are not hurt; and if it is owing
to anything I have said, I shall feel the more concern." "No," said
Tommy, "I cannot say that I am much hurt." "Why, then," said Mr Barlow,
"you had better go and wash yourself; and, when you are clean, we will
talk over the affair together."

When Tommy had returned, Mr Barlow asked him how the accident had
happened? and when he had heard the story, he said, "I am very sorry for
your misfortune; but I do not perceive that I was the cause of it, for I
do not remember that I ever advised you to catch pigs by the hinder
leg." _Tommy._--No, sir; but you told me that feeding animals was the
way to make them love me; and so I wanted to feed the pig. _Mr B._--But
it was not my fault that you attempted it in a wrong manner. The animal
did not know your intentions, and therefore, when you seized him in so
violent a manner, he naturally attempted to escape, and his mother
hearing his cries, very naturally came to his assistance. All that
happened was owing to your inexperience. Before you meddle wit