[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Canal Street station (New York City Subway)

aracters. The platforms are decorated with teapots resembling the Chinese characters for "good life", while the mezzanine has symbols that variously resemble the characters for "Asia", "cycle", or "quality". Lee's art covers some of the station's original mosaics.

Main Line platforms (upper level) 

The Canal Street station on the Main Line has four tracks and two side platforms. The outer local tracks, the only ones to stop at this station, provide through service via the Montague Street Tunnel. The R stops here at all times except late nights, when it is replaced by the N. The W stops here during weekdays. The station is between  to the north and  to the south.

The center tracks, which have never seen revenue service, begin at the unused lower level of City Hall and run north to here, dead-ending at bumper blocks about two-thirds of the way through. The center tracks can be used for layups, but this use has been completely made redundant with the nearby City Hall lower level being used as a layup yard instead.

Bridge Line platforms (lower level) 

The Canal Street station on the Manhattan Bridge route has two tracks and two side platforms. When it opened, this station was known as Broadway. The N stops here at all times except late nights (when it stops at the Main Line platforms), while the Q stops here at all times. North of this station, the N makes express stops on weekdays and local stops on weekends, while the Q makes express stops during the day and local stops during the night. The next stop to the north is  for local trains and  for express trains. The next stop to the south is  for Q trains and  for N trains.

Although technically located on the BMT Broadway Line, it was originally a distinct station from the main line, connected only by a passageway. The original tile on this station read simply "Broadway" and there was a small either wood or metal sign attached to the wall beneath the tile name that read "Canal Street".

West of the station, the bridge tracks curve to the north, and ramp up between the tracks from the local upper-level platform to form the express tracks. The tunnel continues straight ahead, past the diverge to the main line. The bellmouths going westward from the west end of the station are a provision from the original plans and run for about . Sitting on one of the trackways is a storage building.

East of the station, the tracks cross the south side of the Manhattan Bridge to enter Brooklyn. There are disused trackways leading to the north side tracks of the bridge, which trains from these platforms used to travel on. These tracks were disconnected with the opening of the Chrystie Street Connection in 1967 and no longer have rails or any other infrastructure.

Artwork detail

References

Further reading

External links 

nycsubway.org:

 
 
 
 nycsubway.org — Canal Street Canal Artwork by Alexander Brodsky (1997) (no longer in display) 
 nycsubway.org — Empress Voyage 2/27/1784 Artwork by Bing Lee (1998) 
 Early Rapid Transit in Brooklyn, 1878 to 1913 
 Broadway Subway Now Open , Public Service Record, Volume IV, Number 9: September 1917
 Opening of the Broadway Subway , a collection of New York Times articles from 1918 regarding the then-new BMT Broadway Line

Google Maps Street View:

 Centre Street entrance south of Canal Street 
 Canal Street and Lafayette Street entrance 
 Canal Street and Broadway entrance 
 IRT Lexington Avenue Line southbound platform 
 BMT Nassau Street Line platform 
 BMT Broadway Line platforms (Main Line; Upper Level) 
 BMT Broadway Line platforms (Bridge Line; Lower Level) 

Other:

 Station Reporter — Canal Street Complex
 Forgotten NY — Original 28 – NYC's First 28 Subway Stations 
 MTA's Arts For Transit — Canal Street
 Abandoned Stations – Canal St east side platform (BMT Nassau/Centre Street Subway) 

BMT Broadway Line stations
BMT Nassau Street Line stations
Broadway (Manhattan)
Chinatown, Manhattan
IRT Lexington Avenue Line stations
New York City Subway stations in Manhattan
New York City Subway transfer stations
SoHo, Manhattan
Tribeca