[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cam Cameron

or a number of head coaching jobs, including the Houston Texans and St. Louis Rams vacancies following the 2005 season but was not hired. Cameron also interviewed for the head coaching jobs with the Arizona Cardinals and Atlanta Falcons in January 2007 but Miami was the only club that made an offer.

By the time Cameron arrived, the Dolphins were coming off the abrupt resignation of their head coach Nick Saban, despite repeatedly saying he would stay in Miami and denied rumors of him taking the Alabama head coaching job. His 2007 Dolphins lost 13 consecutive games to start the season, before beating the Baltimore Ravens in overtime on December 16 for their first and only win that season. The Dolphins ended the 2007 season in last place in the AFC East with a franchise-worst 1–15 record, the worst record in the NFL that year and the worst in the team's 40-year history. On January 3, 2008, newly hired general manager Jeff Ireland announced Cameron had been fired along with most of his staff.

Baltimore Ravens
On January 23, 2008, Baltimore Ravens head coach John Harbaugh announced Cameron as the Ravens’ new offensive coordinator. Following a loss to the Washington Redskins in Week 14 of the 2012 NFL season, Cameron was released by the Ravens and replaced by Jim Caldwell. At the time of his release, he had helped the Ravens attain a 9–4 record.

After Cameron's firing, the Ravens went on to win Super Bowl XLVII against the San Francisco 49ers. Despite being fired as offensive coordinator after week 14, head coach of the Ravens John Harbaugh stated that Cameron deserved and would receive a Super Bowl ring, having helped the team for a majority of the season to get to the playoffs.

LSU
On February 8, 2013, it was reported on CBSSports.com that Cameron had accepted the offensive coordinator position at LSU, replacing Greg Studrawa. Later in the day this report was confirmed.

Entering 2013, Cameron had immediate success, as his LSU offense averaged 46 points in the first six games of the regular season. The Tiger offense finished the season 34th in the country in passing yards at 265.1 per game, 32nd in rushing yards at 200.8, 22nd points for at 37.0, and 32nd in total offense (LSU's best since 2007) at 5591 yards of total offense and a total average of 465.9 yards per game. Cameron has also been widely praised for the development of redshirt senior quarterback Zach Mettenberger who had the best season of his LSU career with a 64.9% completion percentage, and a 22–8 touchdown to interception ratio, a notable improvement over past seasons. 

On September 25, 2016, it was announced that Cameron was fired along with Les Miles after a 2–2 start to the season. Reports later indicated that it was incoming interim head coach Ed Orgeron who decided to release Cameron.

Head coaching record

College

NFL

References

1961 births
Living people
American football quarterbacks
Baltimore Ravens coaches
Indiana Hoosiers football coaches
Indiana Hoosiers football players
LSU Tigers football coaches
Miami Dolphins head coaches
Michigan Wolverines football coaches
National Football League offensive coordinators
San Diego Chargers coaches
Washington Redskins coaches
Sportspeople from Chapel Hill, North Carolina
Sportspeople from Terre Haute, Indiana
Coaches of American football from Indiana
Players of American football from Indiana