[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eugenia Manolidou

ce 2nd season of MasterChef Greece never ended. Eugenia's spontaneous reaction on the winner announcement was never cut on editing and thus an urban slogan emerged: Θα καταρρεύσω i.e. I am about to collapse. She opted not to present either the Junior version or 2nd season despite proposals for both.

In 2011, Eugenia returned to ""ANT1" for the 4th season of Greece Got Talent, but due to financial reasons, the show was postponed for the next year. Meanwhile, she accepted to present Dancing With the Stars Daily, a programme based upon Strictly Come Dancing: It Takes Two from BBC that followed action of 2nd season of Dancing with the Stars (Greek TV series). DWTS Daily was eventually embedded in the morning infotainment programme of ANT1.

In 2012, Ellada Eheis Talento (season 4) was finally aired and Eugenia kept her position as the female judge. Unlike her, Ilias Psinakis could not return and Haris Hristopoulos took his place. There were not any arguments except some nasty contestants and everyone seemed to enjoy it. It was the final edition of the show till now as well as Eugenia's most recent job on TV.

Discography
 1999 – Meanings and Symbols:  Eugenia's first attempt to express her musical perception of 14 meaningful and symbolic myths of ancient Greece, “an infinite source of inspiration”, as the composer has often stated since. Primarily recorded in New York in 1998, her last year as a student in the Juilliard School, where she conducted a chamber music ensemble under the supervision of her professor Daron Hagen. A later recording in May 1999 with Bulgarian Symphony Orchestra SIF 309 was released in Greece from Kunduru Music/Universal. This album is not available anymore.
 2001 – Greek Hymns: Eugenia's second album presents a musical interpretation of 10 Orphic hymns. Recorded in Czech Republic with Filharmonie Bohuslava Martinů, soprano Hara Kefala, tenor Konstantinos Paliatsaras and choir. It was released in Greece by Als SA. It is no longer available.
 2004 – Archetypon (i.e. Original Model): Featuring Manolides' first symphony Mythical Couples plus 2 compositions of hers dedicated to her country and Alexander the Great. Mythical Couples is in fact a symphonic poem in 4 movements and was recorded back in October 1998 with Bulgarian Symphony Orchestra SIF 309. Both Hymn to Greece and Hymn to Alexander were recorded with Czech Filharmonie Bohuslava Martinů, soprano Hara Kefala and bass-baritone Tassos Apostolou.
 2004 – Gaia (i.e. Earth): Music of ballet in 2 acts Gaia which was recorded in September 1999 with Bulgarian Symphony Orchestra SIF 309 and staged the same year in Wuppertal.
 2007 – Epos (i.e. Logos): Epos technically is a lyric drama in 3 acts for full symphony orchestra, soloists, choir and narrator. It was recorded in 2005 in Athens with members of Athens State Orchestra, soprano Hara Kefala, tenor Konstantinos Paliatsaras, bass-baritone Tassos Apostolou, alto Nona Voudouri, baritone Theodoros Efstratiades, narrator George Spanopoulos and Polymnia vocalis as chorus. Ioannis Ganassos assisted Eugenia Manolidou in writing the lyrics.
 2003 to 2009 – Hercules: The real face of the great hero, Alexander the Great: The living legend, Iliad-Odyssey: A series of educational recordings for children with her husband depicting Greek history and mythology as fairytales with the use of music, narration and sound effects.

References

External links 
 EugeniaManolides.com
 Eugenia Manolidou | Practitioners' Voices in Classical Reception Studies | Open University
 

1975 births
Living people
20th-century classical composers
21st-century classical composers
20th-century conductors (music)
21st-century conductors (music)
20th-century Greek musicians
21st-century Greek musicians
20th-century Greek women
21st-century Greek women
Greek classical composers
Greek women conductors (music)
Greek women classical composers
Greek women composers
Greek women musicians
Greek television presenters
Juilliard School alumni
Musicians from Athens
Spouses of Greek politicians
Women television personalities
Greek women television presenters
20th-century women composers
21st-century women composers