[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Abahlali baseMjondolo

09) . Povertyinitiative.org (20 August 2009). Retrieved on 4 December 2011.Zapatista-Inspired Rally Held in New York City; Aims to Fight Gentrification  by Paola Reyes, Latin Dispatch, 3 March 2010 It is also supported by the Movement Alliance Project in Philadelphia and Take Back the Land in Miami.

There is an AbM Solidarity Group in England and the movement has links with the London Coalition Against Poverty and War on Want. In Italy, AbM is connected to Clandestino and the Comboni Missionaries.

Dear Mandela

The award-winning documentary feature film Dear Mandela tells the story of three young activists in Abahlali baseMjondolo.After Apartheid, More Struggles to Wage , Nicolas Rapold, The New York Times, 20 September 2012

Criticism

In the early years of the movement's life, the then eThekwini city manager Michael Sutcliffe, claimed that the essence of the tensions between Abahlali baseMjondolo and the city lay in the movement's "rejection of the authority of the city." When the Durban High Court ruled that his attempts to ban marches by AbM were unlawful he stated that: "We will be asking serious questions of the court because we cannot allow anarchy having anyone marching at any time and any place." According to Lennox Mabaso, the then spokesperson for the Provincial Department of Housing, the movement was "under the sway of an agent provocateur" who is "engaged in clandestine operations" and who has been "assigned to provoke unrest". City Officials continue to argue that the movement was a Third Force seeking to undermine the ruling African National Congress for nefarious purposes.

In December 2006, AbM and the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign, disrupted a meeting of the Social Movements Indaba (SMI) at the University of KwaZulu Natal. A member of the SMI collective said to the Mail & Guardian "they insulted us, using abusive language and all that macho lingo" whilst S'bu Zikode asserted denied any verbal violence. Since then, AbM has refused to work with SMI. AbM has also criticised the Centre for Civil Society at the University of KwaZulu-Natal and from 2006 onwards has refused to work with it.  Supporting Abahlali baseMjondolo

AbM of the Western Cape called for a month of direct action in October 2010.South Africa's rebellion of the poor , by Rebecca Burns, Waging Non-Violence Mzonke Poni, the chairperson of the Cape Town structure at the time, publicly endorsed road blockades as a legitimate tactic during this strike. The Treatment Action Campaign (TAC) and the South African Communist Party, the latter a major ally of the ruling ANC, issued strong statements condemning the campaign and labelling it 'violent' and, 'anarchist' and reactionary'. AbM responded by saying that their support for road blockades was not violent and that "We have never called for violence. Violence is harm to human beings. Blockading a road is not violence." They also said that the SACP's attack was really due to the movement's insistence on organising autonomously from the African National Congress. After the strike by AbM Western Cape, there were some protests in TR section of Khayelitsha in which vehicles were damaged. AbM WC ascribed these protests to the ANC Youth League as did Helen Zille and the Youth League itself. According to Leadership Magazine'' "The ANC Youth League in the province has hijacked the peaceful service-delivery protests organised by the social movement Abahlali baseMjondolo in Khayelitsha in a violent, destructive and desperate attempt to mobilise support for the ANC against the province's Democratic Alliance provincial and municipal governments."

List of notable current and former Abahlali baseMjondolo activists

See also

 Fanmi Lavalas in Haiti
 The Homeless Workers' Movement in Brazil
 The Landless Workers' Movement in Brazil
 The Landless People's Movement in South Africa
 Movement for Justice in el Barrio in the United States of America
 Take Back the Land in the United States of America
 The Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign in South Africa

References

External links 
Abahlali baseMjondolo official website
A Digital Archive of Abahlali baseMjondolo History from March 2005 to November 2006 (with links to pictures, articles, press releases etc.) at the MetaMute site
Revolutionary Ubuntu – The shack dwellers and poor people of South Africa (pdf)