[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Treaty Three Police Service

The Treaty Three Police Service (T3PS) is a self-administered First Nation Police service in Ontario, serving all Treaty 3 First Nations.

It began as the Treaty #3 Policing Initiative in August 1999 as directed by the Executive Council of Grand Council of Treaty 3. It officially began operation on August 5, 2003, and became Canada's newest self-administered First Nation police service. 

Members of Treaty Three Police are appointed as First Nations Constables by the Commissioner of the OPP pursuant to s.54 of the Police Services Act. They have the powers of a police officer for the purpose of carrying out duties specified in their appointments and under federal law have the powers and protections of peace officers.  Because First Nations Constables are not police officers as defined by the Police Services Act, their status in law is different but equal to that of a police officer. 

The jurisdiction of the Treaty Three Police Service includes all signatory Treaty 3 First Nations (The Paypom Treaty) previously policed by the OPP administered First Nations Policing Program. The OPP are mandated to provide policing on a reserve, village or any other area not currently under a policing agreement.  All operations save major crimes are investigated by Treaty Three First Nations Constable patrol officers and/or the T3PS Crime Unit.  The Service exists with the unanimous agreement of the signatory Band Councils or Band Chiefs.  Unlike police forces in cities and towns, the Treaty Three Police Service is not required to provide all the regular services of a police force but does provide virtually everything needed (or requests additional OPP resources, e.g. K9 Unit).

Nationally, standards for First Nations Constable recruitment and attendance at formal police colleges, varies from province to province, however since inception all Treaty Three Officers meet all applicable Ontario provincial training standards and attend the same courses as Ontario police officers.

Inception
Formally incorporated on April 1, 2003, the Treaty Three Police Service assumed all on-reserve policing duties in the area of Treaty 3 from the Ontario Provincial Police (OPP). Currently serving officers were recertified and signed on and the initial group of 12 newly hired recruits attended the Ontario Police College in Aylmer, Ontario in spring of 2003.

Mission statement and motto
The T3PS's Police Services Board established its Mission Statement, which explicitly set out in the Articles of Incorporation as:
 to provide an effective, efficient and culturally sensitive police service to the member First Nations through the further development and expansion of the Treaty Three Police Service;
 to set out the roles, responsibilities and relationships among the member First Nations for the provision and maintenance of policing arrangements;
 to provide police services as may be necessary or appropriate to promote harmonious, healthy communities by keeping the peace and protecting persons and property through crime prevention, community education and law enforcement.

T3PS's motto is "policing for the people by the people".

Staff
The City of Kenora hosts the T3PS's Headquarters on Round Lake, where Chief of Police Louie Napish took over for interim Chief Dan Davidson and his immediate predecessor, Conrad DeLaronde. From there the command staff oversees daily operations. Brian Rupert was the inaugural Chief until his retirement in October 2008. Until his recent retirement,  Deputy Chief Ernest Jones is his counterpart in Couchiching First Nation until his retirement in the summer of 2006. Deputy Chief Larry Indian replaced Jones after three years, evacuating the unsafe and underfunded Couchiching OPP First Nations Program Detachment. He then commanded the Couchiching Sub Division from OPP Emo Detachment, Emo, Ontario until the move to a new facility on Agency One land near Couchiching. The sub-division became the more appropriately named South sub-division.