[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Louay M. Safi

s of Islam. Tamara Sonn identified Safi as a leading Muslim American reformer whose influence "goes beyond the scholarly and intellectual communities and is being felt within the Muslim community at large, as shown by the changing character of the leadership of the Islamic Society of North America."

In 2009, Safi was invited to lecture on Islam to U.S. troops at Fort Hood. However, on December 7, 2009, 13 members of congress wrote a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates asking him to revoke the invitation. The Members of Congress wrote the following in regards to Safi:

It has come to our attention that the Department of Defense has invited Louay Safi, a top official at the Islamic Society of North America, to give lectures on Islam to our troops at Fort Hood. If this is indeed true, we respectfully request that you end this practice. According to the Justice Department, ISNA is a prominent member of the Muslim Brotherhood, an organization with a network of known and suspected Islamic terrorist organizations spread throughout the world. The Brotherhood and its partner organizations regularly espouse violent jihad and anti-Semitism. More specifically, ISNA was identified by the Justice Department at the successful Holy Land Foundation terrorism financing conspiracy trial as an unindicted co-conspirator . ... Safi himself has been connected to an entity called the 'safa group.' Search warrants executed in 2002 were supported by an affidavit alleging its involvement in moving large sums of money to terrorist groups.

On Dec 9, 2009, The Dallas Morning News inquired about Louay Safi, and was told "He has not been the subject of any indictment. His presentations have always [met] the high standards expected." In January, the newspaper was informed by the military that Safi was under investigation and that his lectures had been suspended after complaints after Safi concluded lectures at Fort Hood. Thirteen Republican members of Congress asked Defense Secretary Robert Gates on Dec. 17 to halt lectures by anyone affiliated with ISNA on military bases.

ISNA published a refutation of Dallas Morning News' article, accusing the newspaper of painting "the Islamic Society of North America (ISNA) and Dr. Louay Safi, the Director of Communications and Leadership Development, in a negative light, and presented a distorted picture of ISNA that belies its actual work and contribution to society." The newspaper also published a response by Dr. Safi in which he charged DMN of mischaracterizing his views and publishing unsubstantiated claims borrowed from right-wing detractors.

BooksIslam and the Trajectory of Globalization Open Access Copy (Routledge, 2021)Palestine: Prophetic Principles Over Prophecies (CreateSpace Press, 2011)The Qur'anic Narrative (Prager, 2008)Leading with Compassion (CreateSpace, 2010)Blaming Islam: Examining the Religion Building Enterprise (Institute for Social Policy and Understanding, 2006)Tensions and Transitions in the Muslim World, (University Press of America, 2003)Peace and the Limits of War (International Institute of Islamic Thought, 2001)The Foundation of Knowledge (International Institute of Islamic Thought, 2009) (1st ed) and 2014 (2nd ed.)Al-'Aqidah wa al-Syiasah (International Institute of Islamic Thought, 1996)Truth and Reform (The Open Press, 1998)I'mal al 'Aql (Dar al-Fikr, 1998)The Challenge of Modernity'' (University Press of America, 1994)

References

External links 

Bio of Louay M. Safi
Islam and the Trajectory of Globalization (Routledge 2022)
Leading with Compassion
Palestine: Prophetic Principles Over Prophecies
Article by Louay Safi at Media Monitors Network
Tension and Transition in the Muslim World
The Challenge of Modernity
Books by Louay Safi at Amazon
The College Historical Society of Trinity College

Living people
People from Damascus
Syrian emigrants to the United States
American Muslims
Wayne State University alumni
Wayne State University faculty
American male writers
Syrian National Council members
National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces members
Year of birth missing (living people)