[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Architecture of Hungary

b Fellner, such as the Archbishop's Palace of Veszprém, the Cathedral and Bishop's palace of Szombathely, the Bishop's palace of Székesfehérvár, the Church of St. Stephen in Pápa or the Líceum of Eger. Classical elements such as the tympanum and the Ionic column began to spread.

In the 19th century

In the first half of the 19th century
The Hungarian architecture of the first half of the 19th century was dictated by the Classicist form of a particular national version. The evolving national consciousness took shape in this style. Ferenc Kazinczy's work has spread and become a popular style of the tablet world. After the development of Pest as a city, in 1808, Archduke Joseph, Palatine of Hungary set up the Beautification Committee. The committee, operating until 1857, ensured the urban design of new construction sites and the style unit, thereby facilitating the civil approach to the Classical music. The buildings were characterised by puritanism, sobriety, moderation in form. The increase of mansions, row houses, public buildings began. The first major building was designed by Mihály Péchy (1755-1819) the Reformed Great Church of Debrecen. In the decades before the reform, two leading masters took his place, Mihály Pollack (1773-1855) and József Hild (1789-1867). They played the leading role in the Hungarian Reform Era as well. Pollack's first solo work was the Lutheran Church in Deák square, Budapest, then designed several palaces and castles. Its main work is the building of the Hungarian National Museum, which occupies a significant place in Europe. Hild's operation defined the Classicist image of the emerging capital (Lloyd's palace, Tänzer House) and also performed church orders (Cathedral Basilica of Eger). The construction of Mátyás Zitterbarth (1803-1867), Ferenc Kasselik (1795-1884), József Hofrichter (1779-1835) in Pest is more important. Near Pest and Buda, the main centre of Classicist construction was Esztergom. The Esztergom Basilica was built, initially based on the plans of János Packh (1796-1839), which was finally completed by József Hild. Classicist houses were built all over the country, sometimes provincial.

From the middle of the 19th century, the effect of Romanticism has been stayed, which has already used Oriental elements. Its leading master became Frigyes Feszl (1821-1884). He attempted to create Hungarian national architecture for the first time, using Moorish and Byzantine elements. His main work became Vigadó of Pest, which is also an outstanding work of European Romanticism.

The age of dualism

The most important architect of the second half of the 19th century was Miklós Ybl (1814-1891), started out from Romanticism. His influence, however, was rather manifested in the spread of the Historicism. After 1860, the Historicist aspirations appeared, first the Renaissance Revival (Ybl: Várkert Bazár, Hungarian State Opera House, Vámház körút; Gusztáv Petschacher and Alajos Hauszmann). Frigyes Schulek (1841-1919) and Imre Steindl (1839-1902) were involved in resurrecting the styles of Gothic and Romanesque Revivals (Fisherman's Bastion, Hungarian Parliament Building). At the 19th century, various Eclectic and neo-Baroque palaces were used to define the city views.

Ödön Lechner faced historical aspirations. He wanted to create a national architecture, so he sought to create an independent design. With emphasis on the Eastern heritage of the Hungarian people, he introduced into Hungarian architecture the donkey arch and other Eastern elements, which he added with a form tag from the Hungarian folk art, creating a specific Hungarian Art Nouveau. His work had a huge impact on the younger generation, especially with its non-Budapest buildings (City Hall of Kecskemét). His followers included Ede Toroczkai Wigand (1870-1945), Károly Kós, Géza Márkus.

The Art Nouveau of István Medgyaszay (Petőfi Theatre of Veszprém, Petőfi Theatre of Sopron, St. Elizabeth Church of Muľa (current Slovakia)), which in several aspects points towards the avant-garde (Laczkó Dezső Múzeum in Veszprém). Only the World War I ended the flowering of the Hungarian Art Nouveau, although rural Art Nouveau housing houses were built even in the 1920s. However, only the plaster architecture preserved the motifs of folk nature.
Hungarian architects of this period produced many important works in today`s neighbouring countries: Croatia and others.

In the 20th century
The first modern Hungarian architect Béla Lajta (1873-1920) started from Lechner's aspirations, who, at the same time as the experiments in Western Europe and America, sought new ways. The Rózsavölgyi business house is the first modern Hungarian building. Beside it, Móric Pogány (1878-1942), Dénes Györgyi (1886-1961) was one of the innovators. This includes the fact that the World War I is a very sharp impact in the history of Hungarian architecture.