[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James E. O'Hara

d less than a 1,000 vote majority in Egdecombe County, Kitchin would win. O'Hara contested the results, but evidence was destroyed when his house burned down amid suspicious circumstances. His court challenges to the election results failed. O'Hara ran unsuccessfully for Congress once again in 1880.

In 1882, O'Hara was elected to Congress from North Carolina's 2nd congressional district. He served in the Forty-eighth Congress and was re-elected to the Forty-ninth Congress, serving from March 4, 1883 - March 3, 1887. He was the second African American (after John A. Hyman) to be elected to Congress from North Carolina and was the first to be elected following the end of the Reconstruction era. While in Congress, O’Hara served on the Mines and Mining Committee, the Expenditures on Public Buildings Committee, and the Invalid Pensions Committee. He was known for making short speeches and fighting for the rights of African Americans. He proposed a constitutional amendment to require equal accommodations for African Americans on public transportation and proposed legislation to reinstate the 1875 Civil Rights Bill.

Although O'Hara influenced the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887, asserting that Congress could regulate passenger cars as well as freight traffic, he was unable to gain language requiring enforcement of integrated passenger seating for the railroads. Congress allowed a loophole permitting segregated seating, although the railroads' interstate transportation was under federal oversight and should have been enforced constitutional rights. That year, O'Hara succeeded in amending the appropriations bill for the District of Columbia (which was then administered by the US Congress), in order to require that male and female teachers doing the same work and having the same certificates be paid equivalent salaries. Teachers of both races were paid equally during that period. He also attempted to secure compensation for freedmen who lost savings in the failure of the Freedmen's Savings and Trust Company, but was unsuccessful.

Among the 139 Republicans in the House of Representatives at the time, O'Hara was to only one to vote against the Edmunds–Tucker Act of 1887.

Because of Republican infighting in O'Hara's district, the vote in 1886 was split between another candidate and O'Hara. The Democrat Furnifold M. Simmons was elected by a plurality to the Fiftieth Congress. In 1900 the Democrat-dominated state legislature passed a constitutional suffrage amendment that effectively disfranchised blacks through making voter registration more difficult. This status lasted for most blacks in the state until passage in the mid-1960s of civil rights legislation to enforce their rights.

After his defeat in 1886, O'Hara ran for Congress unsuccessfully in 1888. He then resumed the practice of law in New Bern with his son Raphael.

Personal life
O'Hara married 22-year-old Ann Maria Harris, in New Bern, on March 16, 1864.  Two years later, he moved to Goldsboro, accepting a teaching position.  However, Ann refused to move there with him, even after becoming pregnant.  Their relationship deteriorated, and O'Hara stopped seeing Ann, who moved to Boston and changed her surname to "Cowan."  It is unclear if he ever saw their child.

After Ann left him, O'Hara met and married Elizabeth Eleanor Harris, who went by "Libby”, on July 14, 1869.  Elizabeth was from a prominent family in Oberlin, Ohio.  She had relocated to the South, after the War to teach freedmen.

In 1878, when he ran for Congress, O'Hara was accused of bigamy because of his two marriages. Asserting that he had obtained a legal divorce from Ann without her knowledge, O'Hara denied the accusation.

He and Elizabeth had a son, Raphael. Raphael earned a law degree in 1895 at Shaw University and joined his father in his law practice, by then in New Bern, North Carolina. Raphael was the "first second-generation black lawyer in the state" and practiced for nearly 50 years.

O'Hara was a Roman Catholic. He died in New Bern on September 15, 1905, at the age of 61. Elizabeth O'Hara died on January 30, 1930, at the age of 80.  Raphael O'Hara died on October 30, 1952, also at the age of 80.

See also
 Civil rights movement (1865–1896)
 List of African-American United States representatives

References

Bibliography

Further reading

External links
 
 O'Hara, James Edward - From Black Americans in Congress maintained by the Clerk of the United States House of Representatives.
Guide to the James E. O'Hara Papers 1866-1970 at the University of Chicago Special Collections Research Center