[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Houthi insurgency

t in the Old City of Saada. Akram, unknowingly wired with an explosive, was apprehended by police and taken to safety in Sanaʽa, along with his father. A day after telling his story at a press conference Akram's home was bombed in Saada City. His younger brother suffered injuries in the retaliation.

The Panel of Experts on Yemen was informed regarding Yemen's widespread exploitation of youngsters in hostility-related activities. In 2017 and 2018, it was able to document three examples of children aged 12 to 15 being employed by Houthi troops to combat. The youngsters were kidnapped from their homes or schools in two situations. The boy in the other case was enticed away from his house by Houthis who told him he was going to a three-day educational camp. The three children were transferred to a training camp for three to four months, where they were taught about ideology and jihad and given small-arms training.

Saudi Arabia has also been accused of using child soldiers from Darfur in the frontline of the Yemen war.

Attacking civilian targets
the UN has determined that both Houthi and coalition forces willfully assaulted civilian targets, in breach of international law. This covers the devastation of a Doctors Without Borders hospital in 2015. Other alleged war crimes committed by both sides include torture, arbitrary arrests, and forced disappearances. Yemen’s Tragedy: War, Stalemate, and Suffering 
Moreover, in a letter dated 27 January 2020 from the Panel of Experts on Yemen addressed to the President of the Security Council, the Panel reports that it was informed of 14 cases involving the use of improvised explosive devices against civilians that were ascribed to the Houthis. The Panel was able to complete investigations in two of these situations, finding that the two cases resulted in the deaths of three civilians, two of whom were children, and the injuries of 16 others, all of whom were children. The deployment of unguided explosive ordnance in populated areas generated questions about whether the principles of international humanitarian law were being followed.

See also

 Outline of the Yemeni Crisis, revolution, and civil war (2011-present)
 Timeline of the Yemeni Crisis (2011–present)
 Yemeni Revolution
 Yemeni Crisis (2011–present)
 Yemeni Civil War (2014–present)
 Southern Movement
 South Yemen insurgency

References

 
Houthi Movement
Yemeni Crisis (2011–present)
2004 in Yemen
2000s in Yemen
2010s in Yemen
2020s in Yemen
2000s conflicts
2010s conflicts
2020s conflicts
National security in Yemen
Shia Islam in Yemen
Terrorism in Yemen
Wars involving Saudi Arabia
Wars involving Yemen
Wars involving Iran
Rebellions in Yemen
Shia–Sunni sectarian violence
Iran–Saudi Arabia relations
Iran–Saudi Arabia proxy conflict
Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
North Yemen