[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# FBC Mortgage Stadium

hat the Texas Longhorns would be the first opponent for the UCF Knights in the new stadium. The game, the first of three scheduled meetings between the schools, was held September 15, 2007. A sellout crowd of 45,622 saw the Knights put a scare into the Longhorns before falling, 35–32.

Naming rights

During construction, the stadium's naming rights were sold to cable provider Bright House Networks, naming the facility Bright House Networks Stadium. In 2016, Bright House Networks was acquired by Charter Communications; in accordance with the company's use of Spectrum as a trade name for its cable services, the facility was renamed Spectrum Stadium in April 2017. This naming rights deal ended in 2020.

UCF next attempted to secure a new naming rights deal with RoofClaim.com, a roofing services company. In early 2020, a proposed 15-year, $35-million naming rights deal was drafted, but never finalized. The Florida Legislature put itself in position to hold approval authority for such sponsorships valued at over $1 million. Political pressure terminated a similar naming rights deal the company had briefly secured with Florida Atlantic University for that school's basketball arena.

Anticipating being unable to secure a stadium naming rights deal, UCF Athletics announced on August 5, 2020, that the stadium would officially be named the "Bounce House" for the 2020 football season. Entering the 2021 football season, the stadium was still officially known by that name, while a potential naming rights deal with 3MG Roofing seemingly fell through. A deal was struck between UCF and FBC Mortgage on May 31, 2022, renaming the stadium to FBC Mortgage Stadium with a 10-year, $19.5 million contract.

Nickname

The stadium's nickname is the "Bounce House". The stadium vibrates and shakes when fans jump in unison, most notably when the song "Kernkraft 400" by Zombie Nation is played. The bouncing effect was noticed early on, and shortly after the stadium opened in 2007, some people started calling the facility "The Trampoline", a nickname that ultimately failed to gain traction. The more trendy nickname "Bounce House" soon became popular, very loosely derived from "Bright House [Networks Stadium]" (the official name at the time). For a brief time in 2020–2021, the stadium was officially named Bounce House, while the university was negotiating a new naming rights deal.

While many fans like the bouncing effect, some are uneasy with the bouncing. Stadium officials claimed the stadium was structurally sound, and an independent contractor confirmed that the bouncing would neither damage the stadium nor shorten its expected 50–year useful life. Still, a project was undertaken prior to the 2008 season to reinforce the stadium superstructure and mitigate the bouncing effect.

While the bouncing has been greatly reduced by the stadium reinforcements, it is still noticeable—sometimes enough to shake television cameras during games. For the 2010 Conference USA Football Championship Game, ESPN set up a camera position outside of the stadium to eliminate camera bounce caused by fans.

Drinking fountain controversy
The stadium was originally built without drinking fountains. The university argued that the building code used when the stadium was designed and approved did not require the installation of drinking fountains. However, this claim turned out to be incorrect because the 2004 Florida building code (in effect in 2005, when the UCF Board of Trustees approved the stadium design) mandated that stadiums and other public arenas must have one water fountain for every 1,000 seats, or half that number of fountains if water was also available for sale.

During the inaugural game against Texas, vendors ran out of water at halftime, leading to the hospitalization of 18 people for heat exhaustion. In order to correct the issue, UCF provided a free bottle of water to each person at the next game and immediately began work to install at least 50 drinking fountains throughout the stadium in order to comply with the 2004 building code requirement.

Renovations

The stadium was designed for a planned expansion to 65,000 seats. UCF planned to begin this effort by expanding the Roth Tower with more suites and club seating, and also adding an additional 10,000 seats in a third level on the east side of the stadium, increasing the stadium's capacity to 56,000.

The capacity for the 2015 season dropped by 1,117 seats when UCF removed seats on the east sidelines to construct the "Carl Black and Gold Cabana," which includes a bar, catered barbecue, and padded seats above the bar. In 2017, private field-level cabanas were erected in the south endzone, adjacent to the new J. & J. Rosengren Lounge. In 2018, additional field-level cabanas were added to the north endzone, as well as Loge cabana tables along the top rim of the grandstands.