[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alan Gow

d that SPL club Hearts had been interested in signing him. He scored his first goal for the Seasiders on 4 October 2008 against Cardiff City. After coming on as a substitute in the 77th minute he scored the equaliser deep into the fifth minute of injury time as the clubs drew 1–1 at Bloomfield Road.

He made his first start for the Seasiders on 21 October 2008 scoring a goal as Blackpool beat Derby County 3–2 at Bloomfield Road. With long-term injuries to two of the club's strikers, Daniel Nardiello and Stephen McPhee, coupled with a short-term injury to Steve Kabba, Gow was used as a striker. And after scoring his third goal in eight games for the Seasiders, when he again struck in injury time, in the 92nd minute, to seal a 4–3 win over Watford at Vicarage Road, the club's manager Simon Grayson confirmed that he wanted to sign Gow permanently. Grayson said of him, "When he keeps performing like that, we'd like to get something sorted. He had opportunities to go to Norwich and Birmingham and turned them down and came here. There's a fee agreed with Rangers and we've talked about it in the last few weeks." At the end of his loan spell, on 31 December 2008 he returned to Rangers.

In January 2009 Rangers confirmed that they were in negotiations with Wolverhampton Wanderers over a proposed move for the player. Gow agreed to join the Championship side in a two-and-a-half-year deal on 6 January 2009 for an undisclosed fee, around £250,000, pending a medical, however the medical subsequently revealed an issue that caused Wolves to pull out of the deal.

Norwich City loan move
On 2 February 2009, Gow joined Norwich City on loan until the end of the season. He made his debut for the club as a substitute in a 3–3 draw away to Wolverhampton Wanderers – whom he almost joined earlier in the transfer window – the following day.

Plymouth Argyle
Rangers accepted a £200,000 bid for the player from Plymouth Argyle in August 2009. Gow completed the deal on 14 August, signing a two-year contract with the Championship side. He scored his first goal during his debut in a 3–1 home defeat to Cardiff due to a late penalty given away by former Argyle player Tony Capaldi, who received a second yellow card for the offence. He scored again in his second appearance for the club against Sheffield Wednesday.

Gow fell out of favour at Plymouth after the departure of manager Paul Sturrock. On 1 February 2010, Gow joined Hibernian on loan until the end of the season. SPL rivals Hearts and Aberdeen were also interested in signing Gow, but his relationship with manager John Hughes, who had previously managed him at Falkirk, influenced Gow in his decision. Gow scored a goal on his debut for Hibs, the final goal in a 5–1 Scottish Cup win against Montrose. He subsequently suffered from hamstring injuries, which restricted his appearances. Gow expressed a desire to stay at Hibs and to leave Plymouth permanently, but he was returned to Plymouth at the end of the loan. Gow was released by Plymouth in July 2010.

Motherwell
It was reported by the Swindon Advertiser that Gow had agreed personal terms and completed a medical with Football League One club Swindon Town on 30 August 2010, before demanding a "considerable rise" on the agreed basic wage. Swindon Town director Jeremy Wray commented: 

Three days later, Gow signed for SPL club Motherwell on a six-month deal.

After signing for Motherwell, Gow responded to the criticism from Swindon by stating that he had not agreed a contract with them. He also stated that he had merely travelled there to discuss their offer and had left after he found that he "wasn't happy with the deal". Gow cited the presence of Archie Knox as being one of the positive reasons for signing for Motherwell, while conceding that he had made mistakes earlier in his career in his choice of clubs. He then made his Motherwell debut on 11 September, as a substitute against St Johnstone. He scored his first goal for the club when he scored a late winning goal against Dundee United, in a League Cup tie on 26 October 2010. He would only score one other goal during his time at the Fir Park club, with new Motherwell manager Stuart McCall then deciding against offering Gow a new deal.

Notts County
Gow signed for Notts County on 14 January 2011. He then made his debut in the 0–0 draw away to Southampton. Gow scored a goal for Notts County away to Tranmere Rovers on 5 February 2011, but the match was abandoned early in the second half. Gow was released on 16 May, along with eight other players.

East Bengal
Gow was offered a one-year contract by Indian club East Bengal, and he travelled there for a trial assessment in July 2011. Gow agreed to join the club in August 2011, with the move subject to his visa application being approved. On 13 January 2012, East Bengal FC released Gow from the club. Gow then entered contract negotiations with Iranian club Rah Ahan, despite the UK Government advising him not to travel there.