[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Abahlali baseMjondolo

vement frequently described itself as committing to building 'socialism from below', and sometimes describes itself as communist. It begins its large public gatherings with the Internationale. Following the late Lindokuhle Mnguni it makes frequent use of the slogan 'Socialism or death'.

Repression 

The movement has suffered severe repression.<ref>‘The Politic of Blood’: Political Repression in South Africa, Tricontinental: Institute for Social Research, Dossier 31, August 2020</ref> In its early years individuals in the ruling party often accused it of being criminals manipulated by a malevolent white man, a third force, or a foreign intelligence agency. The movement, like others in South Africa,Dissent Under Thabo Mbeki, Jane Duncan, May 2011 suffered sustained illegal harassment from the state. There were more Than 200 arrests of Abahlali members in the first last three years of the movement's existence and repeated police brutality in people's homes, in the streets and in detention. On a number of occasions, the police used live ammunition, armoured vehicles and helicopters in their attacks on unarmed shack dwellers. In 2006 the local city manager Mike Sutcliffe unlawfully implemented a complete ban on Abahlali's right to march. (PDF) . Retrieved on 4 December 2011. which was eventually overturned in court.  Article in the Daily News  Will Zuma administration open its ears to the streets?, Jane Duncan, Business Day, 4 August 2009] Abahlali were violently prevented from accepting invitations to appear on televisionBATTLE TO BE HEARD , by Carol Paton, Financial Mail, 16 February 2006 and radio debates by the local police. The Freedom of Expression Institute has issued a number of statements in strong support of Abahlali's right to speak out and to organise protests.  Also see 'Free expression means nothing if it's limited to the media' by Na'eem Jenah, Thought Leader, 18 October 2007 The Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions and a group of prominent church leaders have also issued public statements against police violence, as has Bishop Rubin Philip in his individual capacity, and in support of the right of the movement to publicly express dissent. In March 2008, The Mercury newspaper reported that both Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International were investigating human rights abuses against shack dwellers by the city government.

Repression began to take a new form in 2009 when a youth meeting was attacked in the Kennedy Road settlement on 26 September 2009. A mob of 40 people entered the settlement wielding guns and knives and attacked an Abahlali baseMjondolo youth meeting.Report: Experiences of Abahlali baseMjondolo in Durban, South Africa , by Malavika Vartak, Development Planning Unit of University College London Two people were killed in the resulting conflict. following which twelve members of a dance group affiliated to the movement were arrested and charged with murder. The Mail & Guardian newspaper described the arrests as Kennedy Road as a "hatchet job". On 18 July 2011, the case against the twelve accused was eventually thrown out of court.The ANC and the failing of democratic governance , Paul Trewhela, Politics Web, 27 August 2011 The Socio-Economic Rights Institute of South Africa issued a statement saying that the "charges were based on evidence which now appears almost certainly to have been manufactured" and that the Magistrate had described the state witnesses as ""belligerent", "unreliable" and "dishonest". Amnesty International noted that the court had found that "police had directed some witnesses to point out members of Abahlali-linked organisations at the identification parade".

IRIN, the newsletter of the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, reported in April 2010 that "The rise of an organised poor people's movement [Abahlali baseMjondolo] in South Africa's most populous province, KwaZulu-Natal, is being met with increasing hostility by the ruling African National Congress (ANC) government" and in April 2013 the movement successfully sued the Minister of Police for violence against three of its members.