[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Birmingham Surrealists

e city, with Morris's unexplained abandonment of a giant elephant skull on a Broad Street provoking a perplexed response from the police and press alike, and the city council strongly resisting Maddox's repeated attempts to stage a series of violent scenes involving nuns in city centre shop windows.

The focus of surrealist activity in the period was Maddox's house overlooking Calthorpe Park in Balsall Heath. Maddox had long harbored ambitions to own a surrealist house - suggesting spaces filled entirely with bricks and rooms furnished with life-sized chess pieces as possible decorative schemes. When a property was finally found in Autumn 1946 a less ambitious, though still eccentric, design featuring a giant loom, mandolins and wallpaper hand-printed on an adapted washing mangle was adopted.

Weekend parties drew in a wide variety of unconventional attendees from well outside the core surrealist circle. Guardian journalist Tim Hilton, who grew up nearby, recalled:

The group and its associates also continued the surrealist tradition of "being in the world" by meeting in cafes and pubs around the city, including the Kardomah café in New Street (also a haunt of the young Kenneth Tynan), the Trocadero pub nearby on Temple Street, and the International Centre - a meeting place of immigrants and refugees - in Suffolk Street.

Breakup
In July 1948 a Short Manifesto from The Surrealist Group in Birmingham was published and signed by twelve Birmingham artists, including Maddox and Mellor but missing major figures such as Bridgewater, Morris and the Melvilles. Its call for the formation of an "active surrealist group" to reject the "patriotic myths, official pedagogy, the debris of moral rationing which constitutes much of the art, poetry and philosophy of our time" was not without irony though: English surrealism was increasingly looking like a spent force and the manifesto had a far from galvanising effect on local artists.

As the 1950s wore on the group drifted apart. Bridgewater moved to Stratford-upon-Avon in 1951 to look after her ill mother and disabled sister, ceasing artistic activity for almost two decades. Mellor and Morris both moved to Oxford to continue in education. John Melville remained in Birmingham, though he withdrew from public exhibition after the failure of his 1951 exhibition at London's Hannover Gallery and was increasingly attracted away from surrealism to forms such as still life and portraiture.

Maddox himself, frustrated at his inability to reinvigorate English Surrealism from Birmingham, moved to London in 1955, where he continued to advocate the surrealist cause throughout the rest of the 20th century. In 1978, Maddox made contact with the surrealist revival on the West Coast of the U.S., and members of that movement visited London to show at Maddox's Surrealism Unlimited exhibit. The Arsenal anthology (1989), was dedicated to Maddox.

In 2013 Desmond Morris was interviewed by Stewart Lee as part of a BBC Radio 4 documentary about the movement.

References

English art
British surrealist artists
Culture in Birmingham, West Midlands
Surrealist groups