[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ECW Anarchy Rulz (video game)

show that was scheduled. Each victory moved the player up one ranking place, and a loss moved them down one place. A victory at a pay-per-view event would move them up three ranking places. If the player is at the #1 spot at the time of a pay-per-view event, they would compete for the championship.

Players can save their progress on separate memory card files. However, this will not save any hidden content that has been unlocked by winning pay-per-view or championship matches. These items can only be retained if they save the game in Utilities mode.

In the single-player singles career, the player begins at the lowest rank (#15) for the ECW World Television Championship. If the player manages to win the title, they must defend it in five consecutive matches. Losing any title defense will cost the player the title and move them down to #5 in the rankings. If the player succeeds in all five title defenses, he then moves on to the ECW World Heavyweight Championship division. While competing in this division, the player may compete in a "Battle Royal*" at a pay-per-view. If the player wins this match, they will automatically move to the #1 ranking, but will not get a championship match until the next pay-per-view.

The aim of the tag team career is for the player to have their tag team win the ECW World Tag Team Championship. Each match will either be a tag or tornado rules match. The mode is completed once the player wins the titles, but they can still defend the championship up to 15 times if they wish.

The stable career lets the player control a team of four different characters. They must pick which character(s) will represent them before each match. At the beginning of the mode, the matches are mainly singles and tag matches. As the player progresses, they often become handicap and gauntlet matches. The final match is a Team Rumble. This is the only career mode not to have an associated championship. It ends once the player wins the final Team Rumble.

Each of the three career modes can also be played in multi-player mode. In the tag team and stable careers, players can choose to be allies and work together. If they chose to be rivals, they will often face each other, and will have to take turns when they are not in the same match. The mode ends when a player (or alliance) wins the title. For a multiplayer singles career, the characters skip the ECW World Television Championship and go straight into the ECW World Heavyweight Championship rankings.

Belt Tour Mode
One of the few features that made the game unique was the un-lockable 'Belt Tour' mode. This consisted of four 'King of the Ring' style tournaments, but could only be played in single-player mode. There was no save function between rounds, so one loss automatically lost the entire tournament. Each mode could have between 0 and 3 added stipulations, depending on game difficulty, tournament selected and progress.

 TV Belt Tour - unlocked when a player won the ECW World Television Championship in 'Career Mode'. The first match would be a normal match, however the semi-finals and finals would also have an added stipulation. Most of the opponents in this mode would be individuals that had never won the ECW World Heavyweight Title in real life.
 Heavyweight Belt Tour - unlocked when a player won the ECW World Heavyweight Championship in 'Career Mode'. The first match would have a special stipulation, with the remaining two matches having as many as three stipulations. A combined 'Iron Man' and Last Man Standing' match is very common. All opponents would be people that had won the ECW World Title in real life, Rob Van Dam or Dusty Rhodes. Completing this mode with different characters on the Hard difficulty setting unlocked new options or characters.
 Tag Team Belt Tour - unlocked when a player won the ECW World Tag Team Championship in 'Career Mode'. There would only be two matches. Both were tag team or tornado matches with at least one added stipulation.
 Toughman Belt Tour - unlocked when a player won the ECW World Heavyweight Championship in a multi-player 'Career Mode'. All three matches would be handicap matches with up to three added stipulations. The first match would be a '1 vs 2' match, with the others being '1 vs 3' matches.

Bio Mode
In this mode, the player can view each of the 4 alternative costumes of each unlocked character and their attributes. Any titles that the player had earned using that character in 'Career Mode' or 'Belt Tour Mode' are also listed. When viewing a character, the character's theme song plays. The characters are listed in four categories; 'A-M', 'N-Z', 'Jobber' and 'Created'. The last one only becomes available if the player has a created character saved to the same memory card as their main game save.