[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joshua Clover

he Dutch and French, including the book Tarnac: A Preparatory Act, by Jean-Marie Gleize.

He is one of the co-founders, along with Jasper Bernes and Juliana Spahr, of the poetry press Commune Editions. In 2020, the press was awarded the American Book Award as the best publisher in the United States.

Political Work
Clover has written extensively about the campus movements against tuition increases and student debt, about the Occupy movement, and about free speech and policing both on and off the university campus. In January 2012, he and eleven students at the University of California, Davis, engaged in a sit-in to protest the financial arrangements between U.S. Bank and the university, permanently closing the bank branch along with ending the university's particular arrangements with the bank. The protesters, who became known as the "Davis Dozen," were charged with "obstructing movement in a public place and conspiracy to commit a misdemeanor." One month before the trial was scheduled to begin, the Davis Dozen accepted a plea deal from the Yolo County District Attorney. Under the terms of that agreement, the protesters received an infraction notice ticket and agreed to perform 80 hours of community service.

Controversy 
Nick Irvin, in a February 2019 opinion piece for The California Aggie, drew attention to published comments by Clover suggesting he was in favor of killing police. Among them was the September 2015 SFWeekly interview statement by Clover: "People think that cops need to be reformed. They need to be killed." Clover also was reported by CBS Sacramento to have tweeted in November 2014 “I am thankful that every living cop will one day be dead, some by their own hand, some by others, too many of old age”, and in December of that year “it’s easier to shoot cops when their backs are turned”.

In response for all media requests for comment, Clover said only, "On the day that police have as much to fear from literature professors as Black kids do from police, I will definitely have a statement. Until then, I have nothing further to add." In March 2019 California State Assemblyman James Gallagher gathered over 10,000 signatures on a petition calling for Clover to be fired. UC Davis Chancellor Gary May replied in a letter to Gallagher that "Professor Clover’s statements, although offensive and abhorrent, do not meet the legal requirement for 'true threats' that might exempt them from First Amendment protection. . . . Accordingly, the university will not proceed with review or investigation of concerns regarding Professor Clover’s public statements."

Books 

The Matrix (British Film Institute, 2004), 128 pp.

Red Epic. Commune Editions, Oakland 2015 
Riot. Strike. Riot: The New Era of Uprisings. Verso, London & Brooklyn 2016 
Roadrunner. Duke University Press, Durham 2021.

Articles

Clover on The New Yorker in the Village Voice, 2001 
Clover on Michel Houellebecq in the Village Voice, 2003 
Clover on Semiotext(e) in the Village Voice, 2002  
Clover on Courtney Love in the Village Voice, 2004  
Clover on Slavoj Žižek in the Village Voice, 2005 
Clover on Guy Debord and John Ashbery in the Village Voice, 2005  
Clover on Gus Van Sant in the Village Voice, 2005  
Clover on Charles Reznikoff in The New York Times Book Review, 2006 
Clover on Charles Baudelaire in The New York Times, December 2006 
Clover on "France:Still Revolting" in the Village Voice  
Clover on Velvet Goldmine in Spin magazine 
Clover on Poetry in the Village Voice

Essays 

 "Good Pop, Bad Pop: Massiveness, Materiality, and the Top 40", anthologized in This is Pop, Harvard University Press, 2004.  
 "The Rose of the Name", Fence, 1998

Reviews of Clover's Poetry

"Matrix Reloaded," review of The Totality for Kids by Alan Gilbert, Village Voice, 2006.  
"Zoned," review of The Totality for Kids by John Palattella, The Boston Review, September/October, 2006. 
Review of The Totality for Kids by Christopher Burawa, CutBank, January 21, 2007.

Trivia

Clover wrote a regular reviews column for Spin magazine between 1999 and 2001 called "Show Us Your Hits."
Clover's article on Poetry was noted by Greil Marcus in his Salon column "Real Life Rock Top Ten"
Clover co-hosts the podcast Didn't See It, Don't Need To with Sarah Miller

References

External links
UC Davis homepage
 American Academy of Poets profile
Video of Clover reading at Bowery Poetry Club in New York, 2006
Joshua Clover at Davis Wiki

American male poets
Living people
1962 births
Roberta C. Holloway Lecturer in the Practice of Poetry
Boston University alumni
Iowa Writers' Workshop alumni
University of California, Davis faculty
Writers from Berkeley, California
Journalists from California
American male non-fiction writers
21st-century American poets
Criticism of law enforcement
21st-century American male writers