[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James L. Holloway III

e Seventh Fleet performed the airborne mine clearing operations in North Vietnam ports in accordance with the terms of the Paris Peace Accords. For duty as Commander, Seventh Fleet, he received a third Navy Distinguished Service Medal. He then served as Vice Chief of Naval Operations from 1973–1974.

As Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) from 1974 to 1978, Holloway was a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), and served as CNO during the evacuation of Cyprus; the rescue of the merchant ship  and its crew, and punitive strike operations against the Cambodian forces involved in its seizure; the evacuation of U.S. nationals from Lebanon; and the Korean demilitarized zone incident in August 1976, which led to an ultimatum and an armed standoff between the Allied and North Korean armies before the North Koreans backed down. For this service, Holloway was presented a fourth Navy Distinguished Service Medal and two awards of the Defense Distinguished Service Medal.

Post-Navy career
After retiring from the navy in 1978, Holloway was a consultant to Paine Webber, Inc. and served until 1988 as president of the Council of American-Flag Ship Operators, a national association of U.S. merchant marine companies. In 1980 he chaired the Special Operations Review Group which investigated the aborted Iranian hostage rescue attempt. In 1985 he served as executive director of Vice President George H. W. Bush's Task Force on Combating Terrorism, and was a member of the President's Blue Ribbon Commission on Defense Management. In 1986, he was appointed as a Special Envoy of the Vice President to the Middle East. Later, he was a member of the Commission on Merchant Marine and Defense and the Defense Commission on Long Term Integrated Strategy. In 1985 Holloway was the technical advisor to the film Top Gun.

Holloway was chairman of the Academic Advisory Board of the United States Naval Academy, chairman of the Association of Naval Aviation, a director of the Olmsted Foundation, a trustee of the George C. Marshall Foundation, served on the Board of Visitors and Governors of St. John's College and served in a presidential appointment as US Representative to the South Pacific Commission. In 1994, he received the triennial Modern Patriot Award from the General Society of the Sons of the American Revolution, and in 1997 the National Navy League Award for Outstanding Civilian Leadership. In 1998, he was elected to the National Amateur Wrestling Hall of Fame. In 2000, he was selected by the US Naval Academy Alumni Association to receive the Distinguished Graduate Award for service to the Navy and the Naval Academy. He was enshrined in the National Museum of Naval Aviation's Hall of Honor in 2004.

Holloway was conspicuous in his personal support for the Navy's official history programs run by the Naval History & Heritage Command. His grant made the Online Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships Project possible, thereby opening one of the most important US naval history resources to a worldwide audience. He was chairman emeritus of the Naval Historical Foundation and the Historic Annapolis Foundation, a trustee of Saint James School, and an emeritus member of the board of the Mariners' Museum. He was a member of the Society of the Cincinnati, the Brook Club (New York City), Maryland Club (Baltimore, Maryland), New York Yacht Club, Annapolis Yacht Club, and the Metropolitan Club of Washington, D.C., where he served as president in 1992.

Awards and decorations
Among his more than forty military decorations and medals are the following:

Death

Admiral Holloway died on November 26, 2019, in Alexandria, Virginia.

See also

 List of USS Enterprise (CVN-65) commanding officers

Notes

References

  (Internet Archive copy from 2006-07-12)

External links

 
 

|-

1922 births
2019 deaths
Military personnel from Charleston, South Carolina
Saint James School (Maryland) alumni
United States Naval Academy alumni
Joint Chiefs of Staff
Chiefs of Naval Operations
United States Navy personnel of World War II
United States Navy personnel of the Korean War
United States Navy personnel of the Vietnam War
Aviators from South Carolina
United States Naval Aviators
American Korean War pilots
Burials at the United States Naval Academy Cemetery
Recipients of the Gallantry Cross (Vietnam)
Recipients of the National Order of Vietnam
Recipients of the Distinguished Flying Cross (United States)
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
Recipients of the Legion of Honour
Grand Crosses with Star and Sash of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
Recipients of the Air Medal
Vice Chiefs of Naval Operations
Recipients of the Defense Distinguished Service Medal
Recipients of the Navy Distinguished Service Medal