[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chappaquiddick incident

ame from Crimmins' watch. Returning to Edgartown and Katama required making the last ferry, which left the island at midnight, or else calling to arrange a later ferry. Kopechne told no one else that she was leaving for the night with Kennedy, and, in fact, left her purse and hotel key at the party.

The exact time the crash occurred is unknown, due to a conflict between the testimony of Kennedy and a deputy sheriff who claimed to have seen his car at a later time. Kennedy claimed that, as soon as he left the party, he immediately drove  north on Chappaquiddick Road headed for the ferry landing, and mistakenly made a wrong turn, right, onto the dirt Dike Road, instead of bearing left to stay on the paved Chappaquiddick Road for another . There is also a northbound dirt Cemetery Road at this intersection.

Part-time Deputy Sheriff Christopher "Huck" Look left work by 12:30a.m. on Saturday as a gate guard in uniform for the regatta dance, returned to Chappaquiddick Island in the yacht club's private boat, and drove east and south on Chappaquiddick Road toward his home. At around 12:40a.m., after he passed the intersection with Dike Road, he saw a dark four-door sedan driven by a man, with a woman in the front seat, approaching and passing slowly in front of him. The car drove off the pavement onto Cemetery Road, and stopped. Thinking the occupants of the car might be lost, Look stopped and walked towards the other vehicle. When he was  away, the car reversed and started backing up towards him. As he called out to offer help, the car moved forward and veered quickly eastward onto Dike Road, speeding away and leaving a cloud of dust. Look recalled that the car's license plate began with an L and contained two 7s, consistent with Kennedy's license L78–207 on his Oldsmobile Delmont 88. He returned to his car, and continued on his way south. Look's version, if true, leaves over an hour of Kennedy's time with Kopechne unaccounted before the crash.

About a minute later, Look saw Kennedy's party guests Nance and Mary Ellen Lyons, and Ray LaRosa, dancing in a conga line down the middle of Chappaquiddick Road, a short distance south of Dike bridge. He stopped to ask if they needed a ride, which they declined. LaRosa and the Lyons sisters corroborated Look's testimony about meeting him in the road and the verbal exchange, but they were unsure of the time. They also said they saw a vehicle driving north on Chappaquiddick Road, which they could not describe in any detail.

Dike Road leads  to Dike Bridge, a wooden structure angled obliquely to the road, crossing the channel connecting Cape Pogue Pond to the north and Poucha Pond to the south, leading eastward to a barrier beach known as Tom's Neck Point. At the time, the bridge was not fitted with guardrails. A fraction of a second before Kennedy reached the bridge, he applied his brakes and lost control of the car, which launched over the southern end of the bridge, plunged nose-first into the channel, and flipped over, resting on its roof.

Rescue attempts

Kennedy was able to swim free of the vehicle, but Kopechne was not. Kennedy said that he called her name several times from the shore, and tried to swim down to reach her seven or eight times. He then rested on the bank for around 15 minutes, before he returned on foot to Lawrence Cottage. He denied seeing any house with a light on during his 15-minute walk back. His route back took him past four houses from which he could have telephoned to summon help before he reached the cottage, but he did not attempt to contact the local residents. The first of the houses was Dike House,  from the bridge and occupied by Sylvia Malm and her family. Malm stated later that she was home, she had a phone, and she had left a light on at the residence when she retired that evening.

Kennedy returned to the cottage, where the party was still in progress, but rather than alerting all of the guests to the crash, he quietly summoned Gargan and Markham, and collapsed in the back seat of a rented Plymouth Valiant parked in the driveway. Gargan drove the three to the site of the crash, to try to rescue Kopechne from the car. Gargan and Markham jumped into the pond and tried repeatedly to rescue her but were not able to, due to the strong tidal current. After they recovered, Gargan drove Kennedy and Markham to the ferry landing. The three were all lawyers and they discussed what they should do while standing next to a public phone booth at the landing. Gargan and Markham insisted multiple times that the crash had to be reported to the authorities.