[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fernand Bonnier de La Chapelle

bunal of Algiers. The court sat that night and rejected requests for further investigation. My Viala and Sansonetti acted as lawyers for the accused. The rest of the procedure took place in less than a quarter of an hour. The court discounted Bonnier's motivations and age and sentenced him to death.

The lawyers requested clemency. The law required the appeal to be heard by the Head of State, Philippe Pétain. That procedure would have had to await the end of hostilities. Charles Noguès, dean of the Imperial Council, proclaimed himself acting High Commissioner, under an unpublished order issued by Darlan on 2 December 1942. The order was invalid according to the legal order of Vichy. Nogues immediately rejected the clemency petition. Henri Giraud, who was then head of military justice as Commander-in-chief, refused to postpone execution, and ordered his execution the next morning at 7:30.

Alarmed by his conviction, Bonnier asked to speak to a police officer and Commissioner Garidacci responded. Bonnier revealed that Abbé Cordier was aware of his intentions and implicated Henri d'Astier. Garidacci kept this confession to himself, with the apparent intention of later blackmailing d'Astier.

Giraud was elected that day by members of the Vichy Imperial Council, to replace Darlan. When d'Astier and others appealed to Giraud, he told them it was too late.

Bonnier de la Chapelle was executed in Hussein-Dey, the square known as "the shot". His speedy trial and execution fueled theories about who may have been behind the assassination.

Posthumous rehabilitation
Bonnier was rehabilitated by a Chamber judgment revision of the Court of Appeals on Algiers on 21 December 1945, which ruled that the assassination had been "in the interest of liberation of France." In June 1950, his body was repatriated to Bruyères Cemetery in Sèvres, France.

On August 19, 1953, a decree signed by President Vincent Auriol granted Fernand Bonnier de la Chapelle a posthumous Médaille militaire accompanied by the Croix de Guerre with palms and the Resistance Medal.

Historians have speculated that de la Chapelle acted on the encouragement of Charles de Gaulle's entourage or under instruction from the British Special Operations Executive, while judicial records show he was involved with a royalist group aiming to replace Darlan with Henri of Orléans.

Every year, a delegation from Nouvelle Action Royaliste leaves flowers on his grave in Sèvres.

Sources
Rick Atkinson, An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942–1943, New York: Henry Holt, 2002.
Julian Jackson, France: The Dark Years: 1940–1944, New York: Oxford University Press, 2001.
Douglas Porch, The Path to Victory: The Mediterranean Theater in World War II, New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2004.

References

1922 births
1942 deaths
People from Algiers
French assassins
French monarchists
French Resistance members
French civilians killed in World War II
French people convicted of murder
People executed by Vichy France
People convicted of murder by France
Executed French people
Executed assassins
People executed by France by firing squad
Deaths by firearm in Algeria
Overturned convictions in France
Pieds-Noirs
1942 murders in France
French people of colonial Algeria
Civilians who were court-martialed