[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mansurul Haq

n-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, Admiral Haq's role was exposed by R-Adm Tanvir Ahmed, and was forced retired from his four-star commission in 1997. The Naval Police and officials of the Naval Intelligence led by R-Adm. Tanvir Ahmed arrested Admiral Haq but no evidence came out to convict him in 1998.

In 1998, Haq emigrated to the United States and settled in Austin in Texas where he bought a house. In 1999, the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) announced to open the investigations on Agosta scandal, with French Tracfin aiding the investigations, where major breakthrough in the investigation was made in 2000–01.

In 2001, the anti-corruption courts issued the arrest warrants, and President Pervez Musharraf negotiated with the U.S. President George Bush for his extradition to Pakistan. The Texas Ranger detained him in Texas, and extradited him to Pakistan on 17 April 2001. While Haque had a right to fight for his extradition, he choose not to.

Lawsuits, imprisonment and release

In 2001, the Accountability Court inducted Haq in receiving commissions and kickbacks worth $3.369 million in defence deals. Civilian prosecution also leveled charges on him of being involved in financial deals made through selling the metal scrap through the National Shipping Corporation (PNSC), which caused the PNSC to lose $3 million in national exchequer. In 2004, the anti-corruption court sentenced him in rigorous seven-year rigorous imprisonment and fined ₨.2 million. Upon being convicted, the naval police shifted him in the Sihala Prison in Punjab in Pakistan but soon began his negotiation with the Government of Pakistan to return the money as plea bargain in exchange of light sentence and minimal jail time.

In 2003–05, Haq returned a total sum of $7.5 million while in office, which were immediately shifted back to Navy's national account. The amount was said to be enough to pay the salaries of entire navy for two years.

After transferring the amount back to Navy's account, Haq was released from the prison and all cases against him were closed as part of the deal, eventually settling in Karachi. He paid additional US$ 2.5 million which were deposited to Pakistan Navy's account in two easy installment payments, after which, he was released as the NAB agents vacated his house in Karachi.

In 2013, Haq filed a lawsuit against the Government of Pakistan, seeking to restore his medical privileges, pensions, and four-star rank, at the Sindh High Court. Chief Justice of Sindh High Court, Justice Faisal Arab (now serving as Justice in the Supreme Court of Pakistan), heard his appeal as Haq cited his 43 years of military service in the Navy who fought the two wars where he was taken war prisoner by India in 1971. In 2013, the Government of Pakistan agreed to restore his rank (as former) and limited medical pensions but not all benefits that are enjoyed by four-star officers in the Pakistani military.

Aftermath of Agosta submarine scandal

Later revelation and subsequent knowledge

After the nationwide general elections held in 2008, which saw the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) forming the government and Asif Zardari elected as President, the knowledge on the Agosta submarines scandal became to emerge again, which brought several PPP politicians being involved in the scandal in public notice. Despite many investigative journalism reports and media airing the information gained on the Agosta submarines scandal, Haq remained silent and refused to appear on the news media.

Role of Adm. SM Khan and others were also implicated, including the role of Aamir Lodhi, an arms dealer based in France who is also brother of Maleeha Lodhi former Permanent Representative of Pakistan to the United Nations, she served from February 2015 to September 2019 .

Though, Adm. SM Khan denied his role in such deals as the latter wanted to purchase the Victoria-class submarines in 1994.

In 2010, Cdre Shahid Ashraf, the DG NI under Admiral Haq, revealed on the Dawn News that the submarine deal, for which Admiral Mansurul Haq pleaded guilty, was signed before he took charge as Chief of Naval Staff. Shahid Ashraf further claimed that Admiral Haq was not part of the selection team which recommended Agosta 90B for purchase from France. The selection was made during Admiral Saeed Mohammad Khan. The selection committee included various Admirals including those who subsequently held senior positions after Admiral Haq was removed from his position. However, Shahid Ashraf did not put forward any evidence that proved Haq's innocence.

In June 2010, French investigators raided the house of Amir Lodhi, and handed over the important documents relating the defence deals to the NAB. The reports confiscated by the French investigators revealed to have found in regards involvement of former President Asif Ali Zardari who had have received €33 million while Amir Lodhi's share was €2.9 million.