[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cultural impact of the Chernobyl disaster

The Chernobyl disaster is the world's worst nuclear accident to date.

Overview 
The name "Chernobyl" has become synonymous with the concept of a nuclear energy disaster. Referencing the political damage from the inept initial response to the disaster, pundits sometimes use the phrase "Chernobyl moment" to describe alleged analogous damaging failures, such as responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. Ukraine has announced an intention to open the disaster area to tourism. Numerous cultural works have referenced the disaster, some of which are listed in this article.

Documentary films 
 The Bell of Chernobyl (1987), a documentary film directed by Russian filmmaker, Rollan Sergienko.
 Black Wind White Land (1993), a documentary film exploring the disaster and its consequences for the people of Belarus, Russia, and Ukraine.
  (2001) tells the story of Ljudmila Ignatenko and her husband Vasilij who was a firefighter responding to Chernobyl.
 Chernobyl Heart (2003), a documentary film observing the effects of the disaster on the health of children in the area.
 Surviving Disaster: Chernobyl Nuclear Disaster (2006), a BBC docudrama about the events at the Chernobyl plant during the accident and its immediate aftermath, focusing on the role of Valery Legasov.
 The Battle of Chernobyl (2006), a documentary with live footage at the time of the situation in Pripyat and the powerplant. 
 Heavy Water: A Film for Chernobyl (2006), released by Seventh Art Productions to commemorate the disaster through poetry and first-hand accounts. The film aired at film festivals and on TV, internationally, securing Best Short Documentary at Cinequest Film Festival and the Rhode Island “best score” award, with a screening at Tate Modern.
 The Unnamed Zone (2006), a Spanish documentary film about three young Ukrainian children directly affected by the disaster.
 White Horse (2008), a short documentary about a man returning to his Ukraine home for the first time in 20 years.
 Klitschko (2011), a documentary about the World Heavyweight Champions Vitali Klitschko and Wladimir Klitschko, which makes reference to their late father Wladimir Rodanovich Klitschko, a senior ranking Red Air Force officer was involved in the cleanup operation following the disaster who died in 2011.
 The Russian Woodpecker (2015), a documentary film that investigates the events leading to the Chernobyl disaster.
 Babushkas Of Chernobyl (2017), a documentary directed by Holly Morris exploring the daily lives of elderly women who live and farm in the Exclusion Zone.
 Back to Chernobyl (2020), a documentary by Roman Shumunov
 Chernobyl: The Lost Tapes (2022), directed by James Jones, contains interviews with people who were there and newly discovered footage filmed at the plant by cameramen who worked alongside those who cleaned up the disaster.