[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Parit Sulong Massacre

hrough the countryside for six weeks with two broken legs, before he was recaptured. Hackney survived internment in Japanese POW camps, and was part of the labour force on the notorious Burma Railway. He and two other survivors gave evidence regarding the massacre to Allied war crimes investigators.

The commander of the Imperial Guards, Lt Gen. Takuma Nishimura, was later in charge of occupation forces in eastern Singapore. He was indirectly involved in the Sook Ching massacre in Singapore. Nishimura retired from the Japanese army in 1942 and was made military Governor of Sumatra. Following the war, he was tried by a British military court in relation to the Sook Ching massacre. Nishimura received a life sentence, of which he served four years. As he returned to Japan, Nishimura was removed from a ship at Hong Kong by Australian military police and charged in relation to the Parit Sulong massacre. Nishimura was taken to Manus Island in the Territory of New Guinea, where he faced an Australian military court. Although Lt. Hackney was shown Nishimura's photo, Hackney could not determine that Nishimura was the culprit. However, Nishimura's family members have often said that Nishimura's photo frequently introduced as a war criminal after Pacific War seems to be one of another person. Hiroshi Kato, a former Japanese journalist, claims that this error seems to have already occurred at the Manus Island camp. It is unclear if this photo was the same one Hackney saw, but it is possible that Hackney saw a photo that was already wrong. After all, other evidence was presented stating that Nishimura had ordered the shootings at Parit Sulong and the destruction of bodies. He was convicted and executed by hanging on 11 June 1951.

In 1996, Australian journalist Ian Ward published Snaring the Other Tiger, which suggested that the Australian Army prosecutor, Captain James Godwin—a former Royal New Zealand Air Force pilot who had been ill-treated as a POW in Sumatra—had "manipulated" evidence to implicate Nishimura. Ward states that Godwin took no action on the testimony of Lieutenant Fujita Seizaburo, who reportedly took responsibility for the Parit Sulong massacre. Fujita was not charged and his fate is unknown. Extensive research conducted by Professor Gregory Hadley and James Oglethorpe and published in the Journal of Military History in 2007 subsequently showed that the evidence that purported to indict James Godwin was a later fabrication created to further political causes in the 1990s.

See also
 List of massacres in Malaysia

Footnotes

References
 Braddon, Russell, 1951, The Naked Island,  Penguin Books, Melbourne,
 Findlay, Iain, 1991, Savage Jungle – An Epic Struggle for Survival, Simon & Schuster, Sydney.
 MacKay's Betrayal: Solving the Mystery of the "Sado Island Prisoner-of-War Massacre" The Journal of Military History - Volume 71, Number 2, April 2007, pp. 441-464
 Mant, Gilbert, 1996, Massacre at Parit Sulong, Kangaroo Press, Kenthurst.
 Silver, Lynette, 2004, The Bridge at Parit Sulong – An Investigation of Mass Murder, The Watermark Press, Boorowa. .
 Wigmore, Lionel, 1957, The Japanese Thrust – Australia in the War of 1939-1945, AWM, Canberra.

External links

Military history of Malaya during World War II
Massacres in 1942
1942 in British Malaya
Military history of Australia during World War II
1942 in Japan
January 1942 events
Massacres in Malaysia
World War II prisoner of war massacres by Imperial Japan