[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Meir, Egypt

ite is a cemetery dedicated to the members of the city who were not nomarchs. Not much excavation was accomplished on this particular ‘commoner’ cemetery, there is essential no information regarding that site in any of the volumes of work done by any of the main excavators of Meir.

Ukhhotep II (B2)

Pepyankh the Middle
The tomb of Pepyankh the Middle (D2.), known sometimes as Heny the Middle, dates back to the time of Pepi II. Blackman published his findings on Pepyankh the Middle's tomb in 1924 in a book called, “The Rock Tombs of Meir Vol. IV: The Tomb-Chapel of Pepi’onkh the Middle son of Sebkhotpe and Pekhernefert.” and in 2012 Naguib Kanawati published a follow-up book on the tomb of Pepyankh the middle called, “The Cemetery of Meir: Vol. 1 The tomb of Pepyankh the Middle.” Upon excavation of the tombs, it was discovered that Pepyankh the middle was the son of Sebkhotpe (Hepi) and Pepkhernefert (Bebi) and that his wife was Hewetiaah. Together Pepyankh the middle and Hewetiaah had six sons and three daughters. From the tomb, it was also noted that titles held by Pepyankh the middle included: ‘Confidant of the King in his Every Place,’ ‘Overseer of Upper Egypt in Reality,’ ‘Hereditary Prince,’ ‘Superintendent of the Priests of Hathor’ and many more. The undisturbed tomb – the largest found at the cemetery of Meir – was discovered by Ahmed Bey Kamal's workmen in March 1913. Similar to the other tombs at Meir, the tomb of Pepyankh the middle had beautiful examples of daily life reliefs. There are countless descriptions of the various reliefs, one passage says “All the walls of room C are covered with painted reliefs, the brilliance of which was greatly enhanced by the dark slate-grey to indigo background…[but] as is usually the case with the productions of the sixth-dynasty provincial craftsmen, the technique of these reliefs is somewhat crude.”

Religion
In all of the decorated tombs in Meir it is evident that the goddess Hathor was an important element in the lives of the people of Cusae. In Volumes I–VI of Blackman's books, it is evident that just about all of the nomarchs, as well as their various family members, held positions relating to Hathor. Many of the nomarchs held the title, ‘Overseer of prophets of Hathor’ or ‘Priest of Hathor’ and a lot of the important women had the title, ‘Priestess of Hathor.’ In addition to the titles, there are also depictions of ceremonies relating to Hathor in the reliefs on the walls. One example of this can be found in the tomb of Senbi's son Ukh-hotp. In a relief found in his tomb there is a ceremonial picture of two bulls fighting to the death, and it is believed that this is related to winning the honor of being with the goddess cow, Hathor.

Tombs A–E

 A1. Ni’ankh-Pepy-kem (Sebkhotp/Hepi-kem) (During Pepi I): Overseer of Upper Egypt; Chancellor of the King of Lower Egypt; Overseer of prophets.
 A2. Pepy-ankh the youngest (Heni-kem) (During Pepi II): Overseer of the duckpool; Chancellor of the King of Lower Egypt; Overseer of prophets; son of Ni’ankh-Pepy-kem.
 A3. Ukhhotep (During Senusret I): Nomarch; Overseer of Sealers; son of Iam.
 A4. Hepi-kem (During Merenre Nemtyemsaf II): Overseer of Upper Egypt; Chancellor of the King of Lower Egypt; Overseer of prophets.
 B1. Senbi (During Amenemhat I): Nomarch; Overseer of prophets; Chancellor of the King of the Lower Egypt; son of Ukh-hotp.
 B2. Ukhhotep II (During Senusret I): Nomarch of the Atef-nome; Chancellor of the King of Lower Egypt; Overseer of prophets of Hathor Mistress of Cusae; son of Senbi (B1).
 B3. Senbi (During Senusret I): Hereditary prince; Overseer of prophets; son of Ukh-hotp (B2).
 B4. Ukhhotep (During Amenemhat II): Nomarch; Overseer of prophets of Hathor Mistress of Cusae; Director of every divine office; Lector of the Great Ennead; son of Ukhhotep (A3) and Mersi.
 C1. Ukhhotep (During Senusret II): Nomarch; Overseer of prophets; son of Ukhhotep and Heny the middle.
 C2. Kha’kheperre-sonb (Iy) (During Senusret II): Nomarch; Overseer of prophets.
 D1. Pepi: Royal scribe; Judge.
 D2. Pepy-‘ankh-hir-ib (Neferka/Heny/Pepyankh the Middle) (During Pepi II): Nomarch; Vizier; Outline-draughtsman; Overseer of prophets of Hathor Mistress of Cusae; Overseer of Upper Egypt in the central nomes.
 E1. Meni (Menia): Inspector of prophets; First under the King; Friend of the house of the royal favourites.
 E2. Nenki: Intimate; Lector.
 E3. Pepy-‘ankh (During Pepi II): Intimate; Lector.
 E4. Thetu: Overseer of the Thentet-cows, First under the King; Inspector of prophets.

References

Bibliography

Further reading

 
 O'Connor, David 2000. Society and Individual in Early Egypt. In Richards, Janet E. and Mary Van Buren (eds), Order, legitimacy, and wealth in ancient states, 21–35. Cambridge:  Cambridge University Press.

Cemeteries in Egypt