[Source: PubMed]

17. J Patient Saf. 2021 Dec 1;17(8):e1738-e1743. doi:
10.1097/PTS.0000000000000702.

Knowledge, attitudes, and Expectations of Medical Staff Toward Medical Error 
Management Policies in Humanitarian Medicine: A Qualitative Study.

Biquet JM, Schopper D(1), Sprumont D(2), Michel P.

Author information:
(1)Medical Faculty, University of Geneva, Geneva.
(2)Institute of Health Law, University of Neuchâtel, Neuchâtel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Patient safety, a major component of quality of care, is now an 
attribute of health care systems in developed countries at least. Although there 
is ever more research on this subject in developed countries, humanitarian 
medicine, mainly implemented in resource-poor countries, has yet to structure 
its own set of policies and strategies on patient safety and the management of 
medical errors.
OBJECTIVES: We assessed the knowledge, attitudes, and expectations of medical 
humanitarian staff regarding the development of policies and strategies related 
to patient safety and medical error management in medical humanitarian action.
METHODS: We conducted 36 semistructured interviews with international medical 
and paramedical staff active in 6 medical humanitarian organizations after 
having interviewed the medical directors or the person in charge of quality of 
care and the legal advisors. Interviews were transcribed verbatim and subjected 
to a thematic analysis.
RESULTS: The interviews confirmed the current absence of clear investments in 
dealing with safety risks in the selected medical humanitarian organizations. 
The difficulties experienced by medical staff in reporting medical errors such 
as blame culture, lack of training, and absence of leadership committed on 
patient safety are nonspecific. Other arguments are related to the specific 
conditions of humanitarian settings: coexistence of different medical culture, 
absence of international or local regulations or external pressures, and great 
diversity of activities and contexts.
CONCLUSIONS: Interviewed staff expressed high expectations of receiving guidance 
from their organizations and support to adopt clear patient safety and medical 
error management policies adapted to their complex operational and clinical 
realities.

Copyright © 2020 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/PTS.0000000000000702
PMID: 33208636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors disclose no conflict of interest and 
no external funding.