[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carl L. Bankston

conomy of Ethnicity  by Jacques M. Henry and Carl L. Bankston III (2002).
  Forced to Fail: The Paradox of School Desegregation  by Stephen J. Caldas and Carl L. Bankston III (2005).
  Public Education, America's Civil Religion: A Social History  by Carl L. Bankston III and Stephen J. Caldas (2009).

Books as editor
"Encyclopedia of Family Life" (5 vols.) edited by Carl L. Bankston III and R. Kent Rasmussen (1998). .
Racial and Ethnic Relations (3 vols.) edited by Carl L. Bankston III and others (1999)
"Sociology Basics" (2 vols.) edited by Carl L. Bankston III (2000)
 "The End of Desegregation?" edited by Stephen J. Caldas and Carl L. Bankston III  (2003)
 "World Conflicts: Asia and the Middle East" edited by Carl L. Bankston III (2003)
"African American History" edited by Carl L. Bankston III (2003)
 "Immigration in U.S. History" edited by Carl L. Bankston III and Danielle Antoinette Hidalgo (2006)

See also

American Sociological Association
Social Capital
Cajun

References

External links
Review of Growing Up American from Journal of Asian American Studies
Spencer Foundation Conference on Sociology and Education Reading List
The Laotian Population of Louisiana
Vietnamese Americans: A Brief History
Vietnamese Americans
Mid-South Sociological Association
The Biculturation of the Vietnamese Student
Bayou Lotus: Theravada Buddhism in Southwestern Louisiana
The Howard Center Summaries of Recent Social Research
Radio Interview on Segregation of New Orleans Students Displaced by Katrina
The Hispanic Challenge from The Wilson Center
Can Social Capital Explain Persistent Poverty Gaps? from the National Poverty Center
Review of Public Education: America's Civil Religion
Bankston's Homepage at Tulane

1952 births
Living people
American sociologists
Tulane University faculty
People from New Orleans
Southern Methodist University alumni
UC Berkeley College of Letters and Science alumni
University of Louisiana at Lafayette faculty
Louisiana State University faculty
20th-century social scientists
21st-century social scientists