[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Adam Carter

Adam Henry Carter is a fictional character from the BBC espionage television series Spooks, which follows the exploits of Section D, a counter-terrorism division of MI5. He is portrayed by British actor Rupert Penry-Jones. The character is a former MI6 officer who takes charge as the chief of Section D, and hence the head protagonist following the departure of Tom Quinn in series three.

Adam Carter was created with the knowledge that Matthew Macfadyen, who played Tom Quinn, would leave the series. The intention was that Adam would be different from Tom; the producers wanted a character who was a husband with an MI6 background. Rupert Penry-Jones was cast after three auditions. Before the sixth series finale aired, it was announced that Penry-Jones would leave the series. In the premiere episode of series seven, Carter is killed in a car bomb. His death was voted the fourth most shocking death in the series. Rupert Penry-Jones was awarded "Best Actor" at the Crime Thriller Awards for his portrayal of Adam Carter.

Role in Spooks
Before joining Section D, Adam Carter was an MI6 officer who served in Serbia, Yemen and specialised in the Middle East. Oliver Mace (Tim McInnerny), chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee, describes Carter as a "loose cannon". He is a fluent Arabic speaker and has good countersurveillance skills. In one past operation, Adam worked a case in Damascus to recruit Syrian intelligence officer Farook Sukkarieh as a double agent to work with the Israelis and stop a string of suicide attacks. He used Farook's wife, Fiona (Olga Sosnovska) as a way in. Fiona and Adam subsequently fell in love and started an affair. When Farook discovered this, he had Adam brutally tortured. After he escaped, Adam framed Farook, persuading the Syrians that he was a traitor, and Farook was supposedly hanged for this. Adam subsequently married Fiona and together they had a son, Wes.

Adam first appears in the series three opening episode "Project Friendly Fire", hired by head of Section D Harry Pearce (Peter Firth) to help clear Tom Quinn (Matthew Macfadyen) who has been framed for the assassination of the Chief of the Defence Staff. Ultimately Tom is cleared and returns to duty, only to be decommissioned in the following episode after sabotaging an operation. Harry decides to have Adam transferred to MI5, replacing Tom as head of Section D.

Adam recruits Jo Portman (Miranda Raison) after seeing that she saw through his surveillance cover and was impressed by her improvisation skills; he continues to be a mentor to Jo

In the series four episode "Syria", Adam learns that Farook had faked his own death; he is in England, where he kidnaps Fiona during an operation of hers. At the end of the episode Adam guns Farook down, but not before Farook fatally shoots Fiona, who dies in Adam's arms. Harry later relieves Adam of duty until he receives a psychological evaluation. In the series four finale, Adam is shot by rogue MI5 officer Angela Wells (Lindsay Duncan). At the opening of season five, Adam appears to have made a complete recovery and has returned to the Grid.

In series five Adam hires a nanny, Jenny (Gugu Mbatha-Raw), to look after Wes while he takes part in operations. Midway through the series, she and Adam start a brief love affair, which ends in the penultimate episode. In the fifth series, particularly in its later episodes, Adam suffers from several mental breakdowns following the loss of Fiona. He has recurring nightmares that involve his being wounded and unable to return home to his son, and in the eighth episode, he has a panic attack after learning that Wes has briefly run away from home; this attack jeopardises his life during an operation. In the series finale, Adam is revealed to be suicidally depressed, wishing he had died in Fiona's place. But after another panic attack, he is able to pull through, save fellow officer Ros Myers (Hermione Norris), and escape from the Thames Barrier before they both drown.