[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neil McDonald (footballer)

November 2007 he joined Lincoln City, where former Newcastle teammate Peter Jackson had previously been appointed manager, as his assistant. This appointment didn't last long however, as a few months later in February 2008, McDonald was appointed as head coach under Gary McAllister at Leeds United.

On 18 December 2008 he was reunited with Sam Allardyce at Blackburn Rovers, as assistant manager. On 21 November 2009 it was announced that McDonald would take charge of three Blackburn Rovers matches against Bolton Wanderers, Fulham and Stoke City during which time manager Sam Allardyce would be undergoing heart surgery. He also took charge of a fourth match in the Football League Cup in which Rovers played league leaders Chelsea for a place in the semi-finals. Rovers won the game after a penalty shootout after a 3–3 draw. On 13 December 2010 McDonald was sacked by Blackburn's new owners along with Allardyce. Following his appointment as manager, on 1 June 2011, Allardyce announced McDonald as his assistant manager at West Ham United.

On 2 June 2015 he was announced as manager of Blackpool. Following Blackpool's relegation to League Two,  McDonald left his role as Blackpool manager.

On 24 October 2016, McDonald was appointed as assistant head coach at Hull City. He left the club in January 2017, following the sacking of head coach Mike Phelan.

McDonald was announced as the new manager of League of Ireland Premier Division club Limerick F.C. on 18 May 2017.

On 4 January 2018, McDonald joined Scunthorpe United to become Graham Alexander's assistant.

On 30 May 2018, McDonald joined Swindon Town as assistant manager to Phil Brown.

On 12 November 2018, McDonald was sacked as assistant manager at Swindon Town 

On 1 October 2019, McDonald joined Indian club Hyderabad in ISL as assistant manager to Phil Brown. On 11 January 2020, Phil Brown and McDonald was sacked by  Hyderabad for poor performance of the newly formed club.

On 19 May 2021, McDonald was appointed assistant coach to Matt Taylor at Walsall. Following the sacking of Taylor on 9 February 2022, McDonald was put in temporary charge of the club. His first game in temporary charge saw his side end a seven-match losing streak against second placed Tranmere Rovers. On 15 February, following the appointment of Michael Flynn, McDonald departed the club.

On 21 March 2022, McDonald was appointed assistant manager, again to Phil Brown, at Barrow until the end of the 2021–22 season. McDonald had worked at the club the previous season, supporting Rob Kelly as Barrow avoided relegation, hoping to achieve a similar feat in the nine remaining matches of the campaign.

On 8 June 2023, McDonald has been appointed as assistant Coach Bengaluru FC.

Managerial stats
Updated 21 March 2022.

References

External links

Everton Sporting heroes profile with a picture of McDonald

1965 births
Living people
Footballers from Wallsend
English men's footballers
England men's under-21 international footballers
Men's association football fullbacks
Men's association football midfielders
Wallsend Boys Club players
Carlisle United F.C. players
Newcastle United F.C. players
Everton F.C. players
Oldham Athletic A.F.C. players
Bolton Wanderers F.C. players
Preston North End F.C. players
English Football League players
Premier League players
Player-coaches
English football managers
Carlisle United F.C. managers
Östersunds FK managers
Blackpool F.C. managers
Limerick F.C. managers
English Football League managers
League of Ireland managers
English expatriate football managers
Expatriate association football managers in the Republic of Ireland
Expatriate football managers in Sweden
English expatriate sportspeople in Ireland
English expatriate sportspeople in Sweden
Bolton Wanderers F.C. non-playing staff
Lincoln City F.C. non-playing staff
Blackburn Rovers F.C. non-playing staff
West Ham United F.C. non-playing staff
Hull City A.F.C. non-playing staff
Scunthorpe United F.C. non-playing staff
Swindon Town F.C. non-playing staff
Walsall F.C. non-playing staff
Walsall F.C. managers
Barrow A.F.C. non-playing staff
Association football coaches
English expatriate sportspeople in India