[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Italian immigration to Mexico

urateur Caesar Cardini, an Italian immigrant who operated restaurants in Mexico and the United States. Wines are also of significant importance in the cuisine of Baja California and, in Valle de Guadalupe, the Italian Mexican Cetto family promoted the wine industry together with other entrepreneurs.

The craft of the Mexican piñata has its origins in Spain and, in turn, Italy, due to the historical connection that arose in the old world between the two nations. In Mexico, the tradition of breaking piñatas was initially limited to the holiday season, but then spread to children's birthdays as well. Piñatas are part of a fusion of traditions from various regions of the world. In fact, the custom arose in China and reached Italy through Marco Polo, then it was spread by the Italian friars who brought it to New Spain, where it took root and acquired a Christian particularity with Aztec roots. Today it is part of the most common customs in Mexico.

Italian dialects

Most Italian immigration to Mexico occurred in the establishment of colonies. Dialects of Italian and languages of Italy which are still spoken include:
Lower Bellunese, a dialect of the Venetian language from the Province of Belluno in Colonia Diez Gutierrez in San Luis Potosí
Chipilo Venetian, a dialect of the Venetian language, as spoken in the province of Treviso, currently spoken in the city of Chipilo, Puebla  
Lombard in Sinaloa, Colonia Manuel González, Nueva Italia and Colonia Lombardia in the state of Michoacán
Trentino dialects of Lombard and Venetian in Colonia Manuel González, Veracruz and Tijuana, Baja California
Piedmontese in Gutierrez Zamora, Veracruz (the oldest Italian colony in Mexico) and La Estanzuela, Jalisco, another Italian colony
Sicilian, primarily in Mexico City, Reynosa and Monterrey

Notable Italian-Mexicans

 Marcelo Andreani, wrestler
 Rosángela Balbó, actress 
 Katie Barberi, actress
 Óscar Bonfiglio, footballer
 Eder Borelli, footballer
 Jared Borgetti, footballer
 Caesar Cardini, restaurateur, chef, and hotel owner
 Horacio Carochi, priest and grammarian
 Arturo Brizio Carter, football referee
 Cassiano Conzatti, botanist
 Aldo de Nigris, footballer
 Antonio de Nigris, footballer
 Raúl Allegre, american football player
 Alberto Del Rio, wrestler
 Adolfo Dollero, historian
 Walter Erviti, footballer
Eugenio Pizzuto, footballer
 Isidro Fabela, judge, politician, professor, writer, publisher, governor of the State of Mexico, diplomat, and delegate to the now defunct League of Nations.
 Vicente Filísola, military and politician
 Pedro Friedeberg, artist and designer
 Francesca Gargallo, writer
 Luis Ghilardi, general
 Filippa Giordano, singer
 Guillermo González Calderoni, commander of the Mexican Federal Judicial Police, and one of the strongmen of the Attorney General of Mexico
 Eusebio Kino, missionary
 Claudio Linati, artist
 Manuel María Lombardini, President of Mexico in 1853
 Teoberto Maler, explorer
 Tina Modotti, photographer
 Nicky Mondellini, actress
 Sasha Montenegro, actress
 Aldo Monti, actor
 Fabio Morábito, writer and poet
 Mario Pani, architect and urbanist
 Carlos Panini, businessman
 Giovanni Paoli, printer
 Pío Pico, politician, ranchero, and entrepreneur, famous for serving as the last governor of Alta California under Mexican rule
 Michael Ronda, actor and singer
 Alejandro Rossi, writer
 Martha Roth, actress
 Laurette Séjourné, archeologist
 Camila Sodi, singer, actress and model
 Luciano Spano, painter
 Fabrizio Tavano, footballer
 Thalía, singer and actress
 Gutierre Tibón, writer
 Rodolfo Neri Vela, scientist and astronaut
 Uberto Zanolli, composer

See also
 Immigration to Mexico
 Italy–Mexico relations

References

Further reading
Bohme, Frederick G. "The Italians in Mexico: A Minority's Contribution." Pacific Historical Review 28.1 (1959): 1-18
Gurwitz, Beatrice D. "Italian Immigrants and the Mexican Nation: The Cusi Family in Michoacán (1885–1938)." Immigrants & Minorities 33.2 (2015): 93-116.
Zilli Manica, José Benigno. La Villa Luisa de los Italianos: Un proyecto liberal. Xalapa: Universidad Veracruzana 1997.
Zilli Manica, José Benigno. Italianos en México: Documentos para la historia de los Colonos Italianos en México. Xalapa: Ediciones de San JoséĢ 1981.

External links
 Los que llegaron - Italianos from Canal Once (in Spanish)