[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Nikolay Alexeyev

his mother's stepmother was Jewish, and people he works with are Jewish" which, TheNewCivilRightsMovement.com continued to state, "is an unfortunate line of defense as the irony is clear. Who hasn't heard as a defense of bigotry, "Some of my best friends are (insert oppressed minority name here)"?"

He also issued death threats to Michael Lucas, a Jewish American–Russian–Israeli LGBT activist, actor and CEO of the gay adult entertainment studio Lucas Entertainment. This was in response to an article by Lucas describing Alexeyev as the Kremlin's "pocket gay" who "can no longer be trusted as an advocate for LGBT Russians". Following this, Alexeyev claimed to quit LGBT activism in Russia forever.

Personal life 
On 5 September 2008 Nikolay Alexeyev became the first public figure in Russia's history to enter into a same-sex family union. The marriage ceremony took place in Geneva City Hall on the basis of the Swiss Federal Law on registered partnership. He has lived with his partner, a Swiss citizen named Pierre, since November 1999.

In a 2006 interview Alexeyev called himself an Orthodox Christian, though he noted that he thinks about converting to Buddhism for its being "the World's most tolerant religion".

Alexeyev is fluent in English and French. His hobbies include traveling and sports.

Quotes
"Conformism and passivism are now behind us. We managed to generate passion and hope this finds its way into the hearts of many LGBT people in Russia and to revive the spirit of activism"
"I thought that the main problem in the gay community is the lack of funding, I was wrong. The essential quality that this movement needs is courage and an ideal; without an ideal, nothing is possible."
"You cannot work on human rights, you can only live with human rights issues. Fighting for human rights cannot be a job. Fighting for human rights is an ideal"

See also
 Olympic protests of Russian anti-gay laws
 Recognition of same-sex unions in Russia

References

External links

alexeyev.livejournal.ru (ru)— Official blog
LGBT Human Rights Project GayRussia.ru (en)(ru)— Official site
GaysWithoutBorders - An informal network of international LGBT grassroots activists, among them Nikolay Alexeyev, working to make the world a safer place for GLBT people, and for full GLBT equality in all aspects of legal and social life… (en)
LGBT Human Rights Project GayBelarus.By (en)(ru)(by)
ECHR statement of facts and questions in case Alexeyev v. Russia
Full text of the ECHR decision in the case of Alekseyev v. Russia, 21 October 2010
 Recent academic article, "Homosexuality, Freedom of Assembly and the Margin of Appreciation Doctrine of the European Court of Human Rights: Alekseyev v Russia", in Human Rights Law Review

1977 births
Living people
21st-century Russian journalists
Antisemitism in Russia
Gay journalists
Russian LGBT journalists
Russian LGBT rights activists
Russian gay writers
Lawyers from Moscow
Moscow State University alumni
Journalists from Moscow