[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2006 Qana airstrike

e dozens of international journalists, rescue workers and international observers who visited Qana on July 30 and 31 reported seeing any evidence of Hezbollah military presence in or around the home. Rescue workers recovered no bodies of apparent Hezbollah fighters from inside or near the building."

IDF investigation
On August 2, the IDF concluded its investigation into the attack on Qana. The report was not released to the public but was presented to IDF Chief of Staff Dan Halutz and Defense Minister Amir Peretz. In a statement read out to the press, Chief of Staff Halutz's summary of the report was given. The IDF stated that the building was thought to have been empty, and "was struck at 00:25 Sunday by two bombs launched by the IAF. One of the bombs exploded and the other was apparently a dud." The statement accused Hezbollah of using human shields and claimed that the IDF "operated according to information that 'the building was not inhabited by civilians and was being used as a hiding place for terrorists.' Had they known that civilians were in the building, the attack would not have been carried out." The statement also noted that "the building was adjacent to areas from which rockets had been launched towards Israel", and prior to the July 30 attack, "several other structures were attacked in the same area, because they served as terrorist infrastructure."

The IDF did not explicitly take responsibility for the casualties, but Halutz was quoted as saying that he "expressed his sorrow for the deaths of civilians, among them children, in the incident in Qana". Amnesty International responded by describing the inquiry as flawed and "a whitewash," and called for an independent inquiry which has the "capacity to cross borders and talk to survivors of the attack as well as to the forces involved."

Human Rights Watch likewise called for an independent international inquiry, saying that the IDF's report did not explain the attack, that it in effect raised more questions than it answered, and that it contradicted eyewitness accounts of the timing, which denied legitimate military targets were around the building.

August 6 attack
On August 6 the IDF announced that a missile launcher located in the area of Qana which had fired rockets into Haifa was later destroyed in an Israeli airstrike. As part of the announcement the IDF released a video of the launcher which showed three rocket launchers in an area the video described as "between Qana and Zidkin." This area is a large uninhabited area to the southwest of Qana.

See also

2006 al-Qaa airstrike
2006 Ghaziyeh airstrikes
2006 Shiyyah airstrike
Allegations of war crimes against Israel
2006 Marjayoun convoy airstrike
Salam Daher

References

External links
Channel 4 News report on the attack
Video of the scene of the air strike in the morning from Al Manar TV 
Undated Israeli Aerial Surveillance footage of Hezbollah rockets launched South West outside Qana 
Satellite view of Qana showing the area to the bottom left of the image where rockets were fired on an unspecified date.

2006 building bombings
Airstrikes during the 2006 Lebanon War
Building bombings in Lebanon
July 2006 events in Asia
Massacres committed by Israel
Massacres in 2006
Massacres in Lebanon
Tyre District