[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# HMS Boreas (H77)

HMS Boreas was a  destroyer built for the Royal Navy around 1930. Initially assigned to the Mediterranean Fleet, she was transferred to the Home Fleet in 1936. She then patrolled Spanish waters, enforcing the arms blockade during the first year of the Spanish Civil War of 1936–1939. She spent most of World War II on convoy escort duties in the English Channel and the North Atlantic, based at Dover, Gibraltar, and Freetown, Sierra Leone. Boreas also participated in Operation Husky and was later loaned to the Royal Hellenic Navy the next year after conversion into an escort destroyer. She was renamed Salamis and served in the Aegean for the rest of the war. Salamis became a training ship after the war until she was returned to Britain and scrapped in 1952.

Description

The ship displaced  at standard load and  at deep load. She had an overall length of , a beam of  and a draught of . She was powered by two Parsons geared steam turbines, driving two shafts, which developed a total of  and gave a maximum speed of . Steam for the turbines was provided by three Admiralty 3-drum boilers. Boreas carried a maximum of  of fuel oil that gave her a range of  at . The ship's complement was 134 officers and ratings, although it increased to 142 during wartime.

The ship mounted four quick-firing (QF)  Mk IX guns in single mounts, designated 'A', 'B', 'X', and 'Y' from bow to stern. There were two forward and two aft, the latter of which were superfiring. For anti-aircraft (AA) defence, Boreas had two  QF 2-pounder Mk II single-mounted AA guns on a platform between her funnels. She was fitted with two above-water quadruple torpedo tube mounts for  torpedoes. One depth charge rail and two throwers were fitted; 20 depth charges were originally carried, but this increased to 35 shortly after World War II began in September 1939. The ship was fitted with a Type 119 ASDIC set to detect submarines through sound waves beamed into the water that would reflect off the submarine.

By October 1940, the ship's AA armament had been increased when the rear set of torpedo tubes was replaced by a  (12-pounder) AA gun and 'Y' gun was removed to compensate for the additional depth charges added. Boreas was converted to an escort destroyer in late 1943 with the replacement of the 12-pounder high-angle gun with additional depth charge stowage. The 2-pounder mounts were replaced during the war by  Oerlikon autocannon. Four additional Oerlikon guns were added in the forward superstructure for a total of six guns.

Construction and service

The ship was ordered on 22 March 1929 from Palmer's at Jarrow, under the 1928 Naval Programme. She was laid down on 22 July 1929, and launched on 11 June 1930, as the fourth RN ship to carry this name. Boreas was completed on 20 February 1931 at a cost of £221,156, excluding items supplied by the Admiralty such as guns, ammunition and communications equipment. After her commissioning, she was assigned to the 4th Destroyer Flotilla with the Mediterranean Fleet until September 1936 when she was transferred to Home Fleet. Her service in the Mediterranean was uneventful until in July 1936, when Boreas evacuated civilians at the start of the Spanish Civil War.

After a refit at Portsmouth that lasted until 26 September, she conducted multiple patrols off the coast of Spain in 1937 and 1938 as part of the United Kingdom's policy of non-intervention in the Spanish Civil War. On 6 March 1938, she rescued survivors of the torpedoed , a heavy cruiser belonging to the Spanish Nationalists, off Cartagena, Spain with the destroyer . Upon her return the following month, the ship began a refit at Portsmouth that lasted until 11 June. Boreas escorted the royal yacht  during the royal tour of Scotland from 26 July to 4 August. The ship escorted the battleship  and the ocean liner  in September during the Munich Crisis. She remained with the 4th Destroyer Flotilla until April 1939. Boreas briefly served as a plane guard for the aircraft carriers of the Home Fleet later that year.