[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dos de Mayo Uprising

o encourage the mayors of the town, Andrés Torrejón and Simón Hernández, to sign a declaration of war calling on all Spaniards to rise up against the invaders. The name of this declaration was "Bando de los alcaldes de Móstoles" or "bando de la Independencia" which means "Edict of the Independence".

Analysis
The Dos de Mayo uprising, together with the subsequent proclamation as king of Napoleon's brother Joseph resulted in a rebellion against French rule. While the French occupiers hoped that their rapid suppression of the uprising would demonstrate their control of Spain, the rebellion actually gave considerable impetus to the resistance.

Aftermath
The Dos de Mayo uprising put Iberia in revolt against French rule starting with the Action of Valdepeñas.

The Invasion of Portugal had started with the occupation of Lisbon in 1807. But the Dos de Mayo uprising started a rebellion in Portugal with the Combat of Padrões de Teixeira.

The British intervention started 
with the Battle of Roliça led by Wellington.

The Spanish conventional warfare started 
with the Battles of El Bruch.

Napoleon started his invasion of Spain with the Battle of Zornoza.

In popular culture
The Second of May is now a public holiday in the Community of Madrid. The place where the artillery barracks of Monteleón was located is now a square called the Plaza del Dos de Mayo, and the district surrounding the square is known as Malasaña in memory of one of the heroines of the revolt, the teenager Manuela Malasaña, who was executed by French troops in the aftermath of the revolt.

Several memorials to the heroes of 2 May are located over the city, including the Monumento a los Caídos por España (Monument to those who fell to their deaths for Spain).

Notes

References

See also
 Timeline of the Peninsular War

Further reading

External links
 A Spanish language account of the events
 Napoleon's Total War
 

19th-century rebellions
Conflicts in 1808
Battles of the Peninsular War
Wars of independence
Battles involving France
Battles involving Spain
Battles in the Community of Madrid
History of Madrid
1808 in Spain
May observances
19th century in Madrid
May 1808 events
Massacres in Spain
Joachim Murat
Massacres committed by France