[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tshilidzi Marwala

Tshilidzi Marwala  (born 28 July 1971) is a South African artificial intelligence engineer, a computer scientist, a mechanical engineer and a university administrator. He is currently Rector of the United Nations University and UN Under-Secretary-General. In August 2023 Marwala was appointed to the United Nations scientific advisory council.

Early life and education 
Marwala was born at Duthuni Village in the Limpopo Province. He obtained a PhD in artificial intelligence from the University of Cambridge and a Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering from Case Western Reserve University, graduating with a Magna Cum Laude.  He attended school at Mbilwi Secondary School and St. John's College in Johannesburg.

Career
Marwala has been Rector of the United Nations University and UN Under-Secretary-General since 1 March 2023. Marwala was previously a vice-chancellor and principal of the University of Johannesburg. He was previously the deputy vice chancellor for research and internationalization as well as the dean of engineering at the University of Johannesburg and a professor of electrical engineering at the University of the Witwatersrand. He was a post-doctoral fellow at Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine. He served as a trustee of the Nelson Mandela Foundation and on a board of Nedbank.

One of the books he co-authored on modelling interstate conflict has been translated into Chinese by the National Defense Industry Press.  His work and opinion have appeared in media such as New Scientist, Time, The Economist, CNN, and BBC. He has also given talks at Rhodes House, Royal Society, Cambridge Union, Harvard's Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society and Oxford Union. In 2016 Tshilidzi Marwala delivered the Bernard Price Memorial Lecture in South Africa. With Stephen Hawking and Guy Laliberté he was a judge of the YouTube Space Lab competition.

Vice-Chancellor of the University of Johannesburg

Fourth Industrial Revolution 
As Vice-Chancellor, Marwala developed and implemented the fourth industrial revolution (4IR) strategy. To move the fourth industrial revolution, Marwala introduced a compulsory artificial intelligence course and an Africa Insights course for all students, irrespective of their majors. Furthermore, he introduced Africa by Bus Project, where thousands of students travel by bus to various African countries to understand the African continent.

Rankings 
Under his leadership, the University of Johannesburg was ranked first in Africa in the 2021 Times Higher Education (THE) University Impact Rankings on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and first globally for Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8). In the 2023 Times Higher Education Impact Ranking, it was ranked first in Africa and globally for SDG 1 (no poverty). From 2018 to 2022, the University of Johannesburg increased research output from sixth position to position first in South Africa. Furthermore, according to the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) ranking, UJ increased from being number 5 in Africa in 2021 (announced in 2020) to number 2 in Africa in 2023 (announced in 2022).

Fundraising 
Under his leadership, the University of Johannesburg increased its endowment from US$61 million to US$200 million from 2018 to 2022. During his tenure, the University of Johannesburg purchased and financed two additional campuses, Devland Campus (US$10million) and Media 24 Park (US$20 million), and completed the Soweto Residence Complex (US$30million). Furthermore, the University of Johannesburg increased electricity consumption from solar energy from 0% to 15% from 2018 to 2022.

Institutes 
Marwala established of the Johannesburg Institute for Advanced Study, UJ Press, Johannesburg Business School, Institute of Future Studies, with University of West Indies the  Institute for Global African Affairs and Institute of Intelligent Systems.

United Nations 
As the Rector of the United Nations University, Marwala has secured $65 million to establish the Institute for Artificial Intelligence and Big Data in Bologna, Italy. This Institute will be located near the supercomputing facility, including the Leonardo supercomputer. Marwala has also worked with the United Nations through agencies such as UNESCO, UNIDO, WHO, ITU, ILO, UNICEF, and WIPO. He was a member of the World Health Organization (WHO) committee that developed the ethical guidelines of using artificial intelligence in medicine. Furthermore, he was a member of the committee that developed the international accord on open data for the International Council for Science (ICSU) in Paris. Institute of Future Studies, with University of West Indies the  Institute for Global African Affairs and Institute of Intelligent Systems.