[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

ird Avenue to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 New Market: Martin Luther King Drive is a one-lane residential cul-de-sac, running north from Indian Cave Road, in the northwest corner of New Market.
Murfreesboro: On May 19, 2021, Mercury Boulevard was renamed to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.

Texas
 Alice: Martin Luther King Road is a semirural highway running north from BUS US 281 to Front Street.
 Amarillo:  Northeast/Northwest 24th Avenue runs east–west in the northern portion of Amarillo, and carries the unofficial Martin Luther King Boulevard designation through posted signage.
 Austin: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard (formerly 19th Street) is a major east–west roadway bordering the University of Texas in Austin.  Beginning at Lamar Boulevard, it runs between downtown and the University of Texas at Austin campus initially, then continues as Webberville Road (FM 969) in far east Austin.
 Arlington: Center Street is co-signed as Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard from Randol Mill Road to Pioneer Parkway (Spur 303). The road runs north–south and passes through Downtown Arlington and the University of Texas at Arlington.
 Beaumont: Martin Luther King Parkway is the name of Spur 380, a north–south highway which borders Downtown Beaumont and passes through Lamar University.
 Cleveland: Martin Luther King Drive is a residential street about 3/5 mile in length, running east from North Travis Avenue.
 Dallas: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is a major street in South Dallas, running from Fair Park to just before South Lamar Street, where it becomes Cedar Crest Boulevard and crosses the Trinity River into Oak Cliff. In the middle of its length, Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard intersects with Malcolm X Boulevard, another major South Dallas street.  It was originally Forest Avenue until its renaming in 1981.
 El Paso: Farm to Market Road 3255 is designated as Martin Luther King Jr Blvd and runs from the Patriot Freeway and Kentworthy St to the Texas/New Mexico border.
 Fort Worth: US 287 is designated as the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Freeway from Downtown Fort Worth to Interstate 820.  It was originally called Poly Freeway.
 Galveston: The entirety of 29th Street is known as Martin Luther King Street from Seawall Boulevard to Harborside Drive. It is one of two streets in Galveston named after prominent African Americans - another street (41st Street) is named for former heavyweight champion Jack Johnson.
 Giddings: US 77 is designated as the Martin Luther King Memorial Highway within the Giddings city limits.
 Greenville: Interstate 30 is designated as Martin Luther King Jr. Freeway through the city of Greenville between exits 92 and 97.
 Houston: Martin Luther King Boulevard (formerly South Park Boulevard until 1976) travels from a short distance north of Wheeler Avenue near the University of Houston south to Orem Drive through the predominantly black neighborhoods of South Park, Sunnyside, and South Acres. The boulevard is proposed to be extended further southward to Houston's Texas State Highway Beltway 8.
 Lubbock: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is a north–south road paralleling Interstate 27/U.S. Route 87 from Lubbock Preston Smith International Airport to near the Lubbock Executive Airpark, approximately  south of the intersection of South Loop 289 and U.S. Route 84.  It was originally called Quirt Avenue until 1993 when the street name change was motivated by perception that "quirt", a Spanish whip, had negative connotations.
 Midland: Martin Luther King Circle
 Orange: Martin Luther King Drive is a north–south road that intersects Interstate 10 on the west side of the city.
 Port Arthur:  Texas State Highway 82 is locally designated as Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, running northwest‐southeast from Texas State Highway 73 to the Martin Luther King Bridge (formerly Gulfgate Bridge) where it crosses the Intracoastal Waterway.
 San Antonio: Martin Luther King Drive (formerly Nebraska St.) starts out as a neighborhood street at Claude W. Black and ends at Palmetto Street which it merges into Pittman-Sullivan Park. Then, Martin Luther King Drive travels from South New Braunfels Avenue to W.W. White Road. Martin Luther King Drive is located on San Antonio's east side, which is one of two predominantly African American areas of San Antonio, the other being northeast San Antonio. St. Phillips College, a community college, now a HBCU, is also located on Martin Luther King Drive. It is crossed by I-10, where it meets Martin Luther King Park, which holds one of the largest Martin Luther King Day parades in the United States.
San Marcos: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive is a 2 lane street that runs through the Dunbar Historic District starting at its unique juncture with one-way LBJ Street. A memorial installation stands at this Crossroads in recognition of the civil rights legislation enacted by LBJ informed by his many interactions with MLK. LBJ is an alumnus of Texas State University, located i