[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (video game)

r 3: Rise of the Machines received "generally unfavorable reviews" according to Metacritic. Several critics believed that the game felt rushed through development, and others noted the large number of people credited with creating the game, stating that this did not help translate to a good product.

Game Revolution called the game a "monumental catastrophe". Kristan Reed of Eurogamer wrote, "Rarely – if ever – have we witnessed such a painful licensing gaff, and the six or so hours we spent in the company of Rise of the Machines surely rank alongside the most painful we've endured in twenty odd years of videogaming." Reed stated that the game "drags the reputation of movie-licensed games back down to the gutter in truly disgraceful fashion". Michael Knutson of GameZone wrote that Terminator 3 "relies too much on the license and doesn't put enough effort into making the game fun." Alex Navarro of GameSpot stated "the story structure doesn't mimic the film's plot especially well, adding sections that aren't all that interesting and omitting many key areas".

The graphics were largely criticized. Navarro was critical of the game's "drab, nasty look" and stated that the game "manages to make a post-nuclear war zone look even worse than it probably should." Reed described some levels as "a series of rubble-strewn concrete environments, as grey, dull and lifeless as your worst nightmares could imagine." Game Revolution was also critical of the gray coloring: "Gray objects and gray robots fight in front of gray walls." Knutson opined that the game "looks bland, drab, and downright awful." A couple critics stated that the graphics of the Xbox version were slightly superior to the PS2 version. Marc Nix of IGN criticized the combination of CG cutscenes and film footage.

The gameplay was criticized for being too easy and for having a short overall length, with some critics stating that the levels become shorter as the game progresses. The game's targeting system received criticism as well. Game Revolution wrote that the system "seems to pick an enemy randomly, even if they are behind a wall, while someone else shoots at you." Andrew Reiner of Game Informer stated that while the game would appeal to Terminator fans, "Its gameplay is well below today's standard for console FPS." The fighting portions were criticized for their simplicity and limited combat moves.

The game was also criticized for various software bugs, with Nix writing that the game's "bugs and errors amp up the challenge of playing this game in all the worst ways." The collision detection was among errors criticized. GamePro wrote, "Many times, you'll have a target locked on to an enemy and your shots will pass straight through them. Enemy fire also goes through walls, which leads to many instances of getting shot by enemies you can't see." The artificial intelligence (AI) was criticized as well. Navarro called the AI "pretty horrendous" and wrote about the player's teammates, "When they aren't running straight into heavy walls of enemy fire, they're running into actual walls and getting stuck there." GamePro stated that when the non-playable characters are "not running into objects or enemy fire, they're not reacting at all, effectively eliminating them from the game".

Game Revolution enjoyed the music, while Nix felt that it did not fit in. Other critics were unimpressed by the music and sound, and Schwarzenegger's one-liner dialogue was criticized as repetitive.

GBA version 
The GBA version received "mixed or average reviews" according to Metacritic. GameSpot's Alex Navarro considered it the best Terminator 3 game available, but stated that beyond comparison to the other games, "the game doesn't hold up on its own merits." Navarro believed that the game felt rushed through development. Jon Gibson of GameSpy also considered it the best Terminator 3 game to date, although he considered them all to be bad. Adam Tierney of IGN stated that it "is by no means a bad game. The design and presentation of this title is surprisingly ambitious. But like most licensed games, it's just too rough around the edges to be as effective and engaging as it should have been."

The game was criticized for its target aiming and for being too easy. Gibson stated that one reason for its ease of difficulty was the abundance of ammunition. Navarro complained that the game was too short in length.

The graphics were generally criticized, although Tierney praised the detailed backgrounds and character sprites, and stated, "The entire palette of the game oozes with the colors of futuristic doom". However, Tierney criticized the character movements, describing them as awkward and clumsy. Tierney praised the music, but had mixed feelings about the sound effects. Other critics considered the sound and music to be the best aspects of the game.