[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cole Skuse

ong Championship season. He also tallied four assists, matching his career high achieved with Bristol in 2012. Skuse began the season partnering Douglas in midfield, but spent most of the second half of the season alongside Cardiff City spring loanee Emyr Huws, with Grant Ward just in front of them.

Skuse started the club's first 22 matches in the league in 2017–18, until he left a win against Reading at half-time on 16 December with an ankle injury. He scored his second goal for the club on 16 September 2017, producing a strike from the edge of the box in a 2–0 win over Bolton Wanderers at Portman Road. Skuse didn't find a consistent midfield partner until November, when Everton loanee Callum Connolly was given his first start there of the season. On 8 February 2018, Skuse signed a new two-year deal at Portman Road, keeping him at the club until the summer of 2020, with the option of a further year. His 200th appearance in all competitions for Ipswich came on 6 March against Sheffield Wednesday, and he was the only player signed by manager Mick McCarthy to have reached the benchmark during his tenure. Skuse made 39 starts that season, captaining the side on eight occasions through the absence of Luke Chambers, as Ipswich finished in mid-table.

Skuse spent most of the 2018–19 season alongside Chelsea loanee Trevoh Chalobah in midfield, starting 19 of the club's first 20 matches in the league. He was stretchered off against East Anglian rivals Norwich on 2 September after a clash of heads with Timm Klose, but returned for the club's next game against Hull two weeks later. Having impressed for new manager Paul Lambert in the six matches since his takeover, Skuse suffered a knee injury in training and missed most of the month of December, being replaced in the team by Jon Nolan. His return to the team came on 12 January against fellow relegation strugglers Rotherham. Skuse made just 13 starts in 2019, as Ipswich were relegated to the third-tier for their first participation since 1957.

Skuse captained the side on the opening day of his first campaign in League One in 12 seasons, with regular captain Luke Chambers out through suspension. Skuse started the club's opening 17 games of the season in the league, mostly alongside Flynn Downes in midfield. After captaining the side in a goalless draw against Gillingham, which saw Ipswich go winless in six matches and drop out of first place around the turn of the year, Skuse was dropped from the side by manager Lambert and replaced by Emyr Huws. He made his first start in seven matches against Peterborough on 1 February. At the time of the suspension of the season due to the COVID-19 pandemic in England, Ipswich were on a run of four defeats and had fallen to 10th in the table. Skuse had made 25 starts and four substitute appearances in the league. He captained the side in both matches in the EFL Trophy after the group stage, which ended for Ipswich in Round 3 against Exeter. He also captained the side in the club's final match in the FA Cup that season, against Coventry in a second round replay, his only appearances in cup football that season.

With his contract expiring at the end of the season, Skuse signed a new one-year contract, with the option of an additional 12 months, on 18 May 2020, keeping him at the club until at least 2021. In October 2020, Skuse suffered a knee injury in training, with the injury expected to rule him of action for three months. After being out of action for five months due to injury, he made his first appearance of the season as a second-half substitute in a 1–0 home win over Plymouth Argyle on 13 March 2021. On 10 May 2021, Ipswich announced that Skuse would be leaving the club following the end of his contract, after making 278 appearances over 8 seasons with the club.

Colchester United
On 25 May 2021, Skuse joined Colchester United on a free transfer. He signed a two-year deal with the club. He made his debut for Colchester on 7 August 2021 in their 0–0 draw away at Carlisle United.

Managerial career

Bury Town
On 12 May 2023, Skuse announced his retirement from football to become manager of Isthmian League North club Bury Town.

Career statistics

Honours
Bristol City
Football League One runner-up: 2006–07

Individual
Bristol City Player of the Year: 2009–10
Ipswich Town Goal of the Season: 2014–15

References

External links
 Cole Skuse profile at the Ipswich Town F.C. website
 

1986 births
Living people
People from Yate
English men's footballers
Footballers from Bristol
Men's association football midfielders
Bristol City F.C. players
Ipswich Town F.C. players
Colchester United F.C. players
English Football League players
English football managers
Bury Town F.C. managers