[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lee Bell

However, Bell was involved in a confrontation with the club's supporters at the end of the game, an incident which caused Bell to apologise. He went on to make 44 league appearances for the club during the 2011–12 season, having missed one game due to suspension after accumulating five yellow cards.

Ahead of the 2011–12 season, Bell said he was willing to share the captaincy with Artell and Westwood for the second time. In January 2012, Bell suffered a groin injury. He also required surgery for a hernia. In a draw against Crawley Town on 2 April 2012, Bell conceded a penalty when he handled in the area. Crawley Town successfully converted to make it 1-1. Bell went on to make thirty appearances for the club.

He helped the club to reach the play-offs in 2011–12, and was a last second substitute as the Railwaymen secured victory in the League Two play-off final at Wembley Stadium. However, he was released by new boss Steve Davis a few days later, and was heavily linked with a move to nearby Port Vale.

Burton Albion
After leaving Crewe Alexandra for the second time, Bell went on trial at Burton Albion, linking with them for the third time of his career. Bell was then involved in a pre-season friendly against Aston Villa, where he impressed. Following his trial, Bell signed a one-year contract with Burton.

Bell re-debut for Burton Albion for the third time in the first round of League Cup, in a 2–2 draw against Sheffield United and played 120 minutes. Bell was the only Burton Albion's player to be missed, as they beat them 5–4 in the penalty shoot-out. In the next game in the opening game of the season against Rotherham United, Bell started in the match, but was sent-off in the 62nd minute after a second bookable offense, in a 3–0 loss. After serving a suspension, Bell was able to make amends when he scored his first Burton Albion goal of the season, in a 3–1 win over York City on 19 September 2012. In the second round of the FA Cup, Bell captained Burton Albion for the first time against his former club, Crewe. Weeks later, on 29 December 2012, Bell scored his second goal for the club and setting up the second goal of the game, in a 2–0 win over Southend United. Bell later added two more goals later in the season against Exeter City and Dagenham & Redbridge. During the season, Bell, who had captain the team for a number of games during the season, helped the club to their highest ever finish in the football league. Their 4th place in League Two saw them face Bradford City in the playoffs. Bell, however, received a four-game suspension for a red card given towards the end of the season and was unavailable for the final, should Burton Albion have reached it. After the club were unsuccessful in the play-offs, Bell made 43 appearances in his first full season at the club. Bell won the club's Player of the Year award and was rewarded with a new one-year contract in April 2013.

In the 2013–14 season, Bell was appointed as the new club captain. However, Bell was in and out of the starting eleven during the season, often featuring on the substitute bench. Later in the season, Bell scored his first goal of the season, in a 3–0 win over Hartlepool United on 19 April 2014. For the second time running. Bell helped the club reach the play-offs by finishing sixth place and ultimately reaching the final, which they lost 1–0 against Fleetwood Town. After making 34 appearances for the club, Bell was once again rewarded with a one-year contract extension for the second time running.

In the 2014–15 season, Bell missed the start of the season, due to a knee injury, which he sustained in the play-offs final three month earlier. After making a brief return against Mansfield Town, Bell find himself competing with newly signing John Mousinho over the starting eleven squad. Bell scored his first Burton Albion goal of the season, in a 4–3 win over Carlisle United on 21 October 2014. Following Gary Rowett's departure to Birmingham City, Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink was appointed new manager of the club. Under his management, Bell was rarely used in the first team, making only one substitute appearance, and was informed by Hasselbaink that he would not feature in the team and he should look for a move.

Macclesfield Town (loan) and retirement
On transfer deadline day 2 February 2015, Bell returned to Macclesfield Town on loan until the end of the season. Bell's first appearance for Macclesfield Town since leaving the club five years earlier came on 7 February 2015, playing 90 minutes, in a 3–2 win over Welling United. Bell then scored three goals in three consecutive matches between 6 April 2015 and 18 April 2015 against Wrexham Forest Green Rovers, and Dartford. Upon returning to his parent club, Bell was released by the club.

Coaching roles