[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# L. J. Dickinson

rom their dismal classrooms, chicken farms, editorial rooms and law offices, they now loiter behind mahogany desks solving problems of the world."  Time commented in 1936 that he "demands 'sane, honest industrial and agricultural programs' and a return 'to the ideas of our New England forefathers.'"

Interest in the Presidency
In May 1936, Time reported that Dickinson was interested in the chance to run against President Roosevelt, speculating that "the buzzing in his large, well-shaped head" was the question, "'If Warren Harding could get the Republican Presidential nomination in 1920, why can't I get it in 1936?'"  It explained: 
Like Harding, he would personify a return to normalcy after a hectic Democratic regime. For dark horse Dickinson, oldtime Harding supporters have been quietly conducting the same kind of preconvention campaign that Harry Daugherty put on for his Dark Horse in 1920—unobtrusively making friends, taking care not to offend leading candidates, building up a man on whom irreconcilably opposed factions could unite after a convention deadlock.
In the 1936 Republican National Convention, there was no deadlock, so Dickinson's aspiration to play in 1936 the role that Harding played in 1920 never came to pass.  Instead, Kansas Governor Alfred Landon was the only viable candidate, and was nominated on the first ballot.

1936 re-election loss
Meanwhile, in his race for re-election, Dickinson faced a strong primary challenge from a crowded field of other Republicans that included Brookhart.  While Dickinson did not receive a majority of the vote, he won with a percentage great enough to automatically advance to the general election.  His Democratic opponent was sitting Iowa Governor Clyde Herring. Herring defeated Dickinson by fewer than 36,000 votes. Dickinson had served in the Senate from March 4, 1931, to January 3, 1937.

1938 Senate election loss
After 1936, Iowans' support for Roosevelt and the New Deal noticeably faded, and a bitter split developed in the Iowa Democratic Party between New Dealers and independent-minded Democrats such as incumbent U.S. Senator Guy Gillette. In this setting, Dickinson ran for Gillette's seat. However, his experience in the 1938 election was much like his 1936 election experience.  After a strong battle in the Republican primary (in which he defeated U.S. Representative Lloyd Thurston), Dickinson again lost in the general election, this time by fewer than 3,000 votes.

Private practice in Des Moines
After leaving the Senate, Dickinson initially returned to Algona.

In June 1939, he joined a Des Moines firm that his son, L. Call Dickinson, had started in 1936. The former senator's involvement bolstered the young firm's reputation, and it became one of the leading business law firms in Des Moines and the state.  Known informally for decades as "the Dickinson firm," it is currently known as Dickinson, Mackaman, Tyler & Hagen, P.C.

Dickinson died on June 4, 1968.

References

External links
 
 The Lester Jesse Dickinson Papers are housed at the University of Iowa Special Collections & University Archives.

|-

|-

|-

|-

1873 births
1968 deaths
20th-century American politicians
Cornell College alumni
Iowa lawyers
People from Algona, Iowa
People from Lucas County, Iowa
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Iowa
Republican Party United States senators from Iowa
Candidates in the 1936 United States presidential election
University of Iowa College of Law alumni