[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gene Chizik

fense had surrendered 384 yards per game, a major factor in the Tar Heels going on a school record eleven-game winning streak and earning their 1st ACC Coastal Division championship. Chizik's 2015 and 2016 defense units ranked 96th and 63rd nationally, respectively. Chizik resigned in February 2017.

Return to North Carolina
After a multi-year hiatus from coaching, Chizik returned to Chapel Hill and was named assistant head coach for defense, following the departure of defensive coordinator Jay Bateman. He replaced Bateman on January 8, 2022. Chizik serves as the de facto defensive coordinator, with the defense utilizing his preferred scheme, despite Charlton Warren and Tommy Thigpen having co-coordinator titles. His 2022 Tar Heel defense finished close to the bottom of the FBS in many statistical categories, ranking 102nd out of 131 teams in total defense. Most notably, in an early-season game against Appalachian State, Chizik's defense allowed forty points and 338 total yards of offense in the fourth quarter alone, though the Tar Heels would hang on to win 63–61.

Media career
Following his termination from Auburn, Chizik did media work related to football, including ESPNU coverage of National Signing Day and hosting a weekly football radio show on Sirius Satellite Radio in 2013. In 2014, he joined the SEC Network as a studio analyst. Following his resignation from North Carolina after the 2016 season, he rejoined the SEC Network as an analyst. He stepped down from the SEC Network upon his return to North Carolina in 2022.

Personal life
Chizik is married to Joanna Chizik, the daughter of his high school football coach. They have identical twin daughters named Landry and Kennedy and a son Eugene Calloway, or "Cally". Cally is named after a former player that Chizik coached at Stephen F. Austin State University, Calloway "Cally" Presley Belcher. Belcher and Chizik had a very close relationship and Chizik named Cally in honor of Belcher, who died of a brain aneurysm after suffering a hit to the head in practice.

Honors
 Broyles Award (2004)
 SEC Coach of the Year (AP) (2010)
 Home Depot Coach of the Year Award (2010)
 Liberty Mutual Coach of the Year Award (2010)
 Paul "Bear" Bryant Award (2010)
 Bobby Bowden National Collegiate Coach of the Year Award (2010)
 Amos Alonzo Stagg Coaching Award (2011)

Head coaching record

Notes
 In 2022, Chizik's official title was Assistant Head Coach for Defense

References

External links

 North Carolina profile

1961 births
Living people
American football linebackers
College football announcers
Auburn Tigers football coaches
Clemson Tigers football coaches
Florida Gators football players
Iowa State Cyclones football coaches
Middle Tennessee Blue Raiders football coaches
North Carolina Tar Heels football coaches
Stephen F. Austin Lumberjacks football coaches
Texas Longhorns football coaches
UCF Knights football coaches
High school football coaches in Florida
Clearwater High School alumni
People from Tarpon Springs, Florida
Players of American football from Pinellas County, Florida
Coaches of American football from Florida