[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Review site

s favorably, which skews reviews in their favor. So called reputation management firms may also submit false positive reviews on behalf of businesses.  In 2011, RateMDs.com and Yelp detected dozens of positive reviews of doctors, submitted from the same IP addresses by a firm called Medical Justice.

Furthermore, studies of research methodology have shown that in forums where people are able to post opinions publicly, group polarization often occurs, and the result is very positive comments, very negative comments, and little in between, meaning that those who would have been in the middle are either silent or pulled to one extreme or the other.

Rating sites have a social feedback effect; some high school principals and administrators, for example, have begun to regularly monitor the status of their teaching staff via student controlled "rating sites".  Some looks-based sites have come under criticism for promoting vanity and self-consciousness.  Some claim they potentially expose users to sexual predators.
Most rating sites suffer from similar self-selection bias since only highly motivated individuals devote their time to completing these rankings, and not a fair sampling of the population.

Response to criticism 
Many operators of review sites acknowledge that reviews may not be objective, and that ratings may not be statistically valid.

In some cases government authorities have taken legal actions against businesses that post false reviews. In 2009, the State of New York required Lifestyle Lift, a cosmetic surgery company, to pay $300,000 in fines.

See also 
 Bogardus social distance scale
 Consensus based assessment
 Diamond of opposites
 Employer review website
 F-scale
 Guttman scale
 Phrase completion scales
 Rating scale
 Recommender system
 Reddit
 Reputation management
 Reputation system
 Thurstone scale
 Trust metric
 Star (classification)

References

External links 

User-generated Review System, a 2008 United States patent which defines and deconstructs the concept of a review site