[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mildred Cohn

Achievement.

In the course of her career, Mildren Cohn worked with four Nobel laureates, who received three Nobel prizes: 
Harold Urey, Nobel Prize in Chemistry, 1934
Carl and Gerty Cori, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, 1947 
Vincent du Vigneaud, Nobel Prize in Chemistry, 1955

Achievements

Cohn wrote 160 papers, mostly on her primary research subject of using nuclear magnetic resonance to study ATP.  She received a number of honorary doctorates.

She won the American Chemical Society's Garvan-Olin Medal in 1963. In 1968, she was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She was awarded the Franklin Institute's Elliott Cresson Medal in 1975, for her work on nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of enzymatic complexes. She received the International Organization of Women Biochemists Award in 1979. She received Columbia University's Chandler Medal in 1986.

She was presented with the National Medal of Science by President Ronald Reagan in 1983 for 'pioneering the use of stable isotopic tracers and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in the study of the mechanisms of enzymatic catalysis'.

During her career, Cohn achieved several gender firsts: She was the first woman to be appointed to the editorial board of the Journal of Biological Chemistry, where she served as editor from 1958–63 and from 1968–73. She was also the first woman to become president of the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, then called the American Society of Biological Chemists (serving as such from 1978 to 1979), and the first female career investigator for the American Heart Association. In 2009, she was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, New York.

Marriage
Mildred Cohn was married to physicist Henry Primakoff from 1938 until his death in 1983. They had three children, all of whom earned doctorates. Mildren Cohn is quoted in Elga Wasserman's book, The Door in the Dream: Conversations With Eminent Women in Science, as saying “My greatest piece of luck was marrying Henry Primakoff, an excellent scientist who treated me as an intellectual equal and always assumed that I should pursue a scientific career and behaved accordingly.”

Partial bibliography

Further reading

References

External links

 
  
Mildred Cohn, Ph.D.: The Science of Fearlessness, Video, 18 min 43 sec, Science History Institute, Philadelphia, PA

1913 births
2009 deaths
Hunter College alumni
American women biochemists
Jewish American scientists
National Medal of Science laureates
Columbia University alumni
Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Recipients of the Garvan–Olin Medal
American women chemists
Jewish chemists
University of Pennsylvania faculty
Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences
20th-century American women scientists
20th-century American chemists
American women academics
20th-century American Jews
21st-century American Jews
21st-century American women
Members of the American Philosophical Society
Washington University in St. Louis fellows
Washington University School of Medicine faculty