[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jolyon Howorth

Research
Howorth’s work has covered three distinct fields: French social and political history during the Belle Epoque (1870–1914); French politics and particularly security, defence and nuclear policy since the 1960s; European security and defence policy and its relations with NATO (1990–present).

His Ph.D. dissertation examined the role in the creation of a unified socialist party in France of Edouard Vaillant. Howorth showed that, together with Jean Jaurès, Vaillant forged the intellectual and political compromise that synthesized the many different strands of the French left emerging out of the revolutionary tradition of the nineteenth century (Jacobinism, republicanism, Proudhonism, Blanquism, syndicalism and, eventually, Marxism). This synthesis led to the creation of the only unified socialist party in French history, the Section Française de l’Internationale Ouvrière (SFIO). The united left lasted only between 1905 and 1920. Howorth’s first book, Edouard Vaillant et la création de l'unité socialiste en France, Paris, 1982 (préface by Madeleine Rebérioux) was widely hailed as the definitive work on Vaillant as the father of the united left in France. That this unity did not survive the trauma of World War One was the subject of Howorth’s second major research project, which first drew him to international relations. Vaillant was the co-chair of the Second International and its most active member. Between 1900 and 1915, he corresponded almost daily with the International’s central office in Brussels. The overwhelming majority of this correspondence dealt with the looming threat of world war and with the prospects for a trans-national effort, led by the Second International, to avert the imminent catastrophe by organizing a general strike of all workers in all potentially belligerent countries. Howorth unearthed many hundreds of Vaillant’s letters in different archives across Europe and, together with Georges Haupt, published a critical edition of them as: Edouard Vaillant, délégué au Bureau socialiste international: correspondance avec le secretariat international, 1900-1915, Milan, Feltrinelli, 1976.

The collapse of the Second International over war and peace and the subsequent break-up of the SFIO with the creation of the pro-Moscow French Communist Party (PCF) in 1920 led Howorth to specialize more intensely in international relations and issues of war and peace. During several periods of study at Harvard’s Center for European Studies in the early 1980s, he came under the influence of Stanley Hoffmann. His research in the 1980s, at the height of the INF crisis, focused on France’s strategic distinctiveness within the Atlantic alliance. Not only was France, which had formally left the integrated military structures of NATO in 1966, unambiguously supportive of NATO’s policy of enhanced nuclear deployments in Europe, but France was the only European country whose domestic peace movement did not question the validity of the French nuclear deterrent. In two books published in 1984 (France: The Politics of Peace; and Defence and Dissent in Contemporary France – the latter co-edited with Patricia Chilton), he analysed French distinctiveness in historical, military and politico-cultural terms, demonstrating how Gaullism had inculcated in all sectors of the French population a belief that nuclear weapons were the ultimate guarantors of peace. These books were enthusiastically reviewed in the scholarly journals, the prestigious Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists concluding, in its review of The Politics of Peace, that “Howorth’s careful analysis of the French movement provides a model of how peace movements can and should be written about”.  In a 1990 compendium of ten ground-breaking articles from the 1980s published in the journal Foreign Policy, the editor, Charles William Maynes, commented on Howorth’s Winter 1986–87 article: « In an extraordinary article, Howorth foresaw that the appearance of autonomous East-bloc peace movements and human rights organizations would gradually contribute to a transcontinental process whose aim w[ould] be to move cautiously towards […] a Europe free of blocs ».