[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marco Cappato

iament, Cappato gains approval by the EP on his proposals for a public registry of the elected members to fight against absenteeism of the Italian MEPs. In 2009 he runs in the European Elections as candidate of the Bonino-Pannella List but he is not elected.

Luca Coscioni Association, 2004–present 

In 2004, elected Secretary of the Luca Coscioni Association for Freedom of Scientific Research, he is one of the promoters of the referendum for the cancellation of the new law on assisted reproduction. He's also coordinator of the radical-liberal area in Italy running for the European elections in 2004.

After the encounter with Luca Coscioni, the Italian university researcher sick of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, who invests the Radical Party with a campaign for freedom of scientific research, Cappato deals directly with the issue. During his mandate at the European Parliament, he is committed to successfully unlock the European funds for research on stem cells from supernumerary embryos. 
As Secretary of the Luca Coscioni Association for Freedom of Scientific Research, Cappato is among the promoters of the constitutive session of the World Congress for Freedom of scientific research.

In 2005 he is re-elected Secretary of the Luca Coscioni Association, which helps to constitute in Italy the new liberal-socialist political association named The Rose in the Fist. He is elected for the Piedmont region I to the Lower House at the Italy General Elections held on 9–10 April.

In September 2009 he is among the promoters of the association Agorà Digitale engaged in Italy on Internet Liberties and Digital Rights.

Since 2011 he has been Treasurer of the Luca Coscioni Association.

Civil disobedience 
In December 2001 he is arrested in Manchester for a non-violent action of civil disobedience in connection with the British laws against possession of drugs for personal use.

In September 2006, together with Marco Pannella, Cappato embraces the fight of the Italian Radical Activist Piergiorgio Welby, sick of dystrophia and co-president of the Luca Coscioni Association. Welby asks the President of Italian Republic to grant him the constitutional right to self-determination by suspending the vital treatment keeping him artificially alive.

To support Welby's cause, Cappato starts a hunger strike lasting for 17 days, gaining wide public opinion attention in Italy and worldwide. On 20 December 2006 Welby finally obtains the interruption of vital therapies, with medical assistance.

On 27 May 2007 Cappato is arrested in Moscow. He's at the head of a delegation from the Radical Party, together with parliamentarians from other groups. Their aim is to deliver to Mayor Yuri Luzhkov a letter signed by 50 MEPs calling the authorities to authorize the Gay Pride in Moscow.

While fliers with the text of the letter were being distributed, a group of naziskins violently attacked the demonstrators. Soon after the Russian police, rather than protect the victims, took steps to arrest the demonstrators. Cappato is released few hours later without trial, although he had asked to go to Court.

On 19 December 2008 Marco Cappato, together with Antonella Casu (Secretary of the Italian Radicals), and Sergio D'Elia (Secretary of Hands Off Cain), submitted the complaint to the Labor Minister Maurizio Sacconi, at the Public Prosecutor of Rome, for private violence and intimidation, following his address of a few days before on the issue of Eluana Englaro.

On 17 January 2009, following its complaint, the Public Prosecutor of Rome include the Minister Maurizio Sacconi to the register of suspects.

On 1 May 2012 he goes to Maastricht, The Netherlands, to commit Civil Disobedience against a new law issued by the government of Limburg Province, denying non-residents the consumption of light drugs in coffee-shops. On the same year, Cappato launches a campaign of Legal Euthanasia in Italy. In September 2013 a Citizens' Law Proposal for Euthanasia Legalization is submitted to the Parliament. The Initiative, promoted by Cappato with Luca Coscioni Associations and grassroots movements, gains more than  signatures by Italian Citizens, while a threshold of  is requested in Italy for Law Proposal submitted to the Parliament by citizens.

In September 2014 Cappato promotes the Lower House in Italy the establishment of Parliamentary Intergroup for Legal Euthanasia and Legal Will. To press the Parliament discuss the issue, in December 2015 he undertakes a disobedience action by helping Dominique Velati, a woman at a terminal stage for colon cancer, to obtain Euthanasia in Switzerland.

In late 2016, Fabiano Antoniani, aka Dj Fabo, paraplegic and blind after a car accident in 2014, asked Marco Cappato to help him to get assisted suicide in Switzerland. DJ Fabo died on 27 February 2017, after Marco Cappato drove to the clinic where the procedure was carried out.