[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 2000 United States Senate election in New York

Rochester)
 Nassau (largest municipality: Hempstead)
 Rockland (County Seat: New City)
 Richmond (Staten Island, borough of New York City)
 St. Lawrence (largest municipality: Massena)

Counties that flipped from Republican to Democratic
 Cayuga (County Seat: Auburn)
 Rensselaer (County Seat: Troy)

Hasidic pardons 
In January 2001, two months after Hillary Rodham Clinton's election to the Senate, President Clinton pardoned four residents of the New Square Hasidic enclave in Rockland County, New York, who had been convicted of defrauding the federal government of $30 million by establishing a fictitious religious school.
New Square had voted almost unanimously for Hillary Rodham Clinton in the New York Senate race. A lawyer following the matter stated that even if Clinton had promised to lobby her husband for clemency in exchange for the town's votes — a claim for which there was no proof — it would be difficult to establish a crime had taken place: "Politicians make promises all the time. That's nothing new — or illegal." Clinton acknowledged sitting in on a post-election meeting discussing possible clemency for the four, but said she had played no part in her husband's decision.

A federal investigation launched to investigate various Clinton pardons, closed its investigation of the New Square matter in June 2002 by taking no action against Bill Clinton, Hillary Rodham Clinton, or any residents of New Square.

Hollywood fundraiser 

Hillary Clinton's former finance director, David Rosen, was indicted on January 7, 2005, on campaign finance charges related to a fund-raising event produced by Peter F. Paul.  Paul, a convicted drug dealer who would soon after be convicted on stock fraud charges after being extradited from Brazil, stated that he spent $1.2 million to produce the August 12, 2000 Hollywood Gala Salute to President William Jefferson Clinton event, which was both a tribute to honor President Clinton and a fundraiser for the First Lady's 2000 Senate campaign. The Justice Department indictment charged Rosen with filing false reports with the Federal Election Commission by reporting only $400,000 in contributions. On May 27, 2005, the jury acquitted Rosen on all counts.  On January 5, 2006, it was reported that Clinton's campaign group agreed to pay a $35,000 fine related to the underreporting of the fundraiser's expenses.

Peter Paul also filed a civil suit in this matter, Paul v. Clinton.  On April 10, 2006, the judge in charge of the case removed Hillary Clinton as a defendant, citing a lack of evidence, but leaving open the possibility that she might still be called to testify as a witness in the case.  The removal was upheld by the California Second District Court of Appeal on October 16, 2007.

Meanwhile, by the time of Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign, a 13-minute video produced by Paul and describing his various allegations against Hillary Clinton had become quite popular on the Internet, gaining 1.4 million hits on Google Video and about 350,000 on YouTube in a single week in October 2007.

Analysis 
Clinton won the election on November 7 with 55 percent of the vote to Lazio's 43 percent, a difference larger than most observers had expected. Clinton won the traditionally Democratic base of New York City by large margins, and carried suburban Westchester County, but lost heavily populated Long Island, part of which Lazio represented in Congress. She won 13 of 61 counties, with surprising victories in Upstate counties, such as Cayuga, Rensselaer, and Niagara. Overall, she lost Upstate to Lazio by only 3 percentage points, to which her win has been attributed.

In comparison with other results, Clinton's 12-point margin was smaller than Gore's 25-point margin over Bush in the concurrent presidential contest within the state; was slightly larger than the 10-point margin by which fellow New York senator Charles Schumer defeated incumbent Republican Al D'Amato in the hotly contested 1998 senate race; and was considerably smaller than the 47-point margin by which Senator Schumer won reelection in 2004 senate race against little-known Republican challenger Howard Mills. The victory of a Democrat in the Senate election was not assured, because in recent decades the Republicans had won about half the elections for governor and senator.

Lazio's bid was handicapped by the weak performance of George W. Bush in New York in the 2000 election, but it was also clear Hillary Clinton had made substantial inroads in upstate New York prior to Lazio's entry into the race. Exit polls also showed a large gender gap with Clinton running stronger than expected among moderate women and unaffiliated women. Clinton's victory would establish her as an effective campaigner and an electoral force on her own, able to capture Republican and independent votes and overcome her polarizing image.  She would easily win re-election in 2006, and in 2007 began her presidential campaign for 2008.