[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Gustav Rödel

e pilot killed. The Fifteenth confirmed lost four B-17s and one B-24 half the total amount Axis pilots claimed. It claimed four Me 210s and three Bf 109s which are not corroborated. Another source gives a loss of nine bombers and one loss for III Gruppe. Rödel claimed one of the B-17s in the action.

On 12 April the Eighth Air Force targeted Schweinfurt and the Fifteenth attacked targets around Vienna. The Eighth operation was suspended because of weather but fighter forces continued a sweep over Germany. I. Jagdkorps units claimed to have fought off the attacks. In the south, the Fifteenth continued. Jagddivision 7 committed 190 fighters to battle and lost 21 in dogfights with the USAAF escorts. American losses amounted to just seven bombers: fighter losses are not known. Rödel claimed one of the seven B-17s. The next day the Fifteenth targeted Schweinfurt and Oberpfaffenhofen, two targets hated by American bomber crews. III./Jagdgeschwader 3 two JG 27 Gruppen of Jafü Ostmark and all of Jagdabschnitt Ungarn (Fighter Section Hungary)—III./JG 27 and five Hungarian Bf 109 and Me 210 night fighter units—were scrambled to intercept. 18 American bombers were lost. The Me 210s lost 13 to the American escorts.

On 12 May the Eighth Air Force struck at the petroleum industry near Bruz. 886 heavy bombers and 876 fighters began the operation. Luftflotte Reich committed 475 fighters in 22 fighter groups to intercept. II./JG 27 was able to get airborne and with II./JG 53 and were ordered to rendezvous with Jagdgeschwader 1 but came under attack from P-51 Mustangs. The Bf 109s were able to break free they intercepted the bomber stream over the Tannus Mountains, near Frankfurt. Both groups reported successes but lost 11 Bf 109s. I. Grupppe claimed seven (plus two P-51s), III., claimed 13, IV., five, while stab JG 27 claimed three bombers. Rödel led I. and III. personally but could not prevent his force losing 14 Bf 109s, three killed and seven wounded. The 3rd US Bomb Division alone lost 41 bombers—possibly to attacks from JG 3 and 11—before the escorts intervened. Rödel claimed another pair of heavy bombers. Seven days later he repeated the feat.

On 28 May 1944 the Eighth returned to bomb oil targets in central Germany. 1,341 bombers from several bomb divisions participated. Rödel led JG 27 without filing a claim. During the course of the mission the Bf 109s chanced upon and unescorted bombers from the 94th Bombardment Wing. A combat box of 50 B-17s were flying to Dessau and nearing Magdeburg. Rödel's Geschwader did not normally employ a set formation to attack US heavy bombers but they took advantage of the situation and attacked in Staffeln-strength. IV. Gruppe was flying as escort to engaged US fighters but came down to join the attack. The P-51s were urgently requested by the lead B-17 but were occupied by other German fighter units. Rödel's men attacked and forced the American formation—in a rare instance of indiscipline—to jettison their bombs to gain speed and escape.

Smoke and haze obscured Dessau and the Americans set course for Leipzig, the secondary target but only six B-17s dropped their bombs. When the 94th returned to England they had lost 15 bombers. JG 27 claimed 16 and one P-51 for four killed and two wounded and seven Bf 109s. The Eighth Air Force lost 32 bombers and 14 fighters. I. Jagdkorps lost 18 killed, 13 wounded and 52 fighters. The official victories granted to Rödel's command were Herausschüsse ("shooting-out"—damaging a bomber so severely it drops out of formation and because an easy target for final destruction). JG 27 would never achieve that level of success again and for the remainder of the war rarely claimed a total in double-figures. The following day Rödel scored his last successes in Defence of the Reich operation—one heavy bomber.

Western Front
On 6 June 1944 Operation Overlord and the D-Day landings began. Rödel was ordered to relocate to France immediately and he arrived at Champfleury, 60 miles (95 km) southeast of Paris late on 6 June. I., III., and IV. Gruppen were now pitted against the weight of Anglo-American air power. In the battles that followed the units sustained 130 casualties, roughly two-thirds of them killed in action as the Germans retreated from France and across Belgium. The Geschwader claimed slightly more victories than losses but could not replace their men and machines as opposed to their enemy. Reichsmarschall Hermann Göring tried to address the loss of experienced pilots by ordering the Geschwaderkommodore not to fly unless the size of the formation he was leading surpassed 45. It likely cost Rödel the chance to pass the 100-mark but also improved his chances of survival.