[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Orders, decorations, and medals of India

ese awards were renamed on 27 January 1967 as Ashoka Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra from Ashoka Chakra (Class I), Ashoka Chakra (Class II) and Ashoka Chakra (Class III) respectively.

Wartime/peacetime service awards
  Sena Medal (Army)
  Nau Sena Medal (Navy) 
  Vayu Sena Medal (Air Force)

Wartime distinguished awards
  Sarvottam Yudh Seva Medal
  Uttam Yudh Seva Medal
  Yudh Seva Medal

Peacetime distinguished awards
  Param Vishisht Seva Medal
  Ati Vishisht Seva Medal
  Vishisht Seva Medal 

They were established on January 26, 1960

Other national awards
 Prime Minister's Award for Excellence in Public Administration is awarded to acknowledge, recognize and reward the extraordinary and innovative work done by the Indian Civil Servants.
 Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar is an Indian National Award for disaster management those who served selfless service for the country. 
 Sardar Patel National Unity Award is awarded to persons who make contributions to promote national unity and integrity.
 Champions of Change by Swachh Bharat Mission and NITI Aayog

Women
 Nari Shakti Puraskar. It was instituted in 1999 under the title of Shree Shakti Puraskar by the Government of India.

Children
Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar (previously ''National Children's Award for Exceptional Achievement)
National Bal Shree Honour

Science and technology awards
 Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology

Medicine awards

 Dr. B. C. Roy Award - Highest award in the field of medicine. Instituted by the Medical Council of India, presented by the President of India. Instituted in 1962 by the Government of India.

Literature awards

Jnanpith Award is the highest literary honour in literature of India
Sahitya Akademi Award
Sahitya Akademi Fellowship
Saraswati Samman
Vyas Samman
Bhasha Samman
Sahitya Akademi Translation Prize
Ananda Coomarswamy Fellowship
Premchand Fellowship

Sports awards

 National Sports Awards
Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award
Arjuna Award
Dhyan Chand Award
Dronacharya award
Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Trophy
Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar

Adventure awards

Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award

Cinema and arts

 National Film Awards by Directorate of Film Festivals
 Dadasaheb Phalke Award by Directorate of Film Festivals

Particular awards

Police awards
 President's Police Medal for Gallantry
 Police Medal for Gallantry
 President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service
 Police Medal for Meritorious Service

Home Guard and Civil Defence awards
President's Home Guard and Civil Defence Medal for Gallantry
Home Guard and Civil Defence Medal for Gallantry
President's Home Guard and Civil Defence for Distinguished Service
Home Guard and Civil Defence Medal for Meritorious Service

Fire Services awards
President's Fire Services Medal for Gallantry
Fire Services Medal for Gallantry
President's Fire Services Medal for Distinguished Service
Fire Services Medal for Meritorious Service

Correctional Services awards
President's Correctional Services Medal for Gallantry
Correctional Services Medal for Gallantry
President's Correctional Services Medal for Distinguished Service
Correction Service Medal for Meritorious Service

Coast Guard awards
President's Tatrakshak Medal for Gallantry
Tatrakshak Medal for Gallantry
President's Tatrakshak Medal for Distinguished Service
Tatrakshak Medal for Meritorious Service

Bravery 
National Bravery Award
Bharat Award
Sanjay Chopra Award 
Geeta Chopra Award
Bapu Gaidhani Award
Jeevan Raksha Padak Series of Awards
 Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak
 Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak
 Jeevan Raksha Padak

Corporate Awards
National Corporate Social Responsibility Awards are given by the President of India. These awards have been instituted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. Awards are given in 20 different sub-categories.

Overseas Indian Awards
 Pravasi Bharatiya Samman is awarded to Overseas Indians for excellence.

See also

 Orders, decorations, and medals of British India
List of people who have declined or renounced Indian honours and decorations

References

External links

Current orders, decorations and medals of India
Genius Indian Achiver's Award

India and the Commonwealth of Nations