[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Battle of Charleston (1862)

nati. Wright ordered Brigadier General Quincy Adams Gillmore to take command at Point Pleasant on September 27, but than changed his mind and sent Brigadier General Robert H. Milroy. In early October, Cox was promoted to major general and sent back to Point Pleasant as commander of western Virginia.

Loring remained in Charleston until October 9, when he began moving his army upriver. Loring had become argumentative and uncooperative with Confederate leadership, so he was replaced by Brigadier General John Echols in mid-October. By October 28, Echols was moving east as the Union army advanced up the Kanawha River. On the afternoon of October 30, Cox moved his army across the Elk River into Charleston. By November 2, a division of Union troops was at Gauley Bridge, and inspections were being conducted at Fayetteville and Raleigh Court House. On November 8, Union leadership determined that no posts needed to be established beyond Gauley Bridge.

Casualties
Exact numbers for the Union casualties are difficult to tabulate, since Union reporting is for the entire campaign instead of only the Battle of Charleston. Lightburn's official report for the entire campaign said 25 killed, 95 wounded, and 190 missing. Siber's brigade did most of its fighting at the Fayetteville portion of the campaign. Although Siber does not have a detailed list of casualties, he mentions that he had "more than 80" wounded at Fayetteville. Gilbert's campaign report lists nine killed, eight wounded, and 78 missing—although he expected the number of missing to decrease. One historian has attempted to tabulate casualties using newspaper reports, pension records, regimental histories, and correspondence. Based on his research, Union casualties at Charleston totaled to only eleven killed, two wounded, and six missing or captured. This count is only for events that happened at Charleston on September 13, 1862. Twelve of the nineteen casualties involved the 4th Loyal Virginia Infantry or the 47th Ohio Infantry. Loring, discussing Union casualties in his September 15 report, said that "Four were left dead in Charleston and 5 wounded". He also claimed "Their loss west of Elk River, opposite Charleston, where they met with heavy loss, could not be ascertained...."

For the Confederacy, Loring's Medical Director, John A. Hunter, listed 18 killed and 89 wounded for the entire campaign. Loring's September 13 report claimed they captured Charleston "after a stout resistance from the enemy, in which their loss was heavy, ours was very slight." His September 15 report says Confederate casualties were "[S]ix killed at Charleston and 8 slightly wounded....". Using methods similar to those used to research Union casualties, one historian found evidence of only four Confederates killed and four wounded at Charleston.

Performance

Initial newspaper reports were positive concerning Lightburn's decision to retreat. The Cleveland Morning Leader said, "The retreat was undoubtedly a masterly movement, and does great credit to Colonel Lightburn." Lightburn reported that he brought back over 700 wagons. However, he also reported that he had to burn "a large amount of stores" to prevent them from being possessed by the enemy. Loring's report claimed that Lightburn destroyed "several millions of dollars" in supplies, but he (Loring) was able to capture supplies worth at least $1,000,000 (). He also noted in an earlier report that the nearby "salt-works" was saved.

Some soldiers had a negative perspective for the battle and retreat. Cox later implied that the Battle of Charleston should not have been fought, writing that "...either of the brigades intrenched at Gauley Bridge could have laughed at Loring. The river would have been impassable, for all the ferry-boats were in the keeping of our men on the right bank, and Loring would not dare pass down the valley leaving a fortified post on the line of communications by which he must return." A lieutenant colonel from the 4th West Virginia Infantry, who was a captain in the 4th Loyal Virginia Infantry during the campaign, wrote that Lightburn's retreat was "disastrous and demoralizing". He believed that Loring could have been stopped at Fayetteville or Gauley if Union troops had been concentrated at those places—also implying that the Battle of Charleston could have been avoided.

Preservation