[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anatolia College in Merzifon

to Greeks.         
When Armenian activists posted broadsides in 1893, Ottoman troops jailed many Armenians and damaged some college buildings; accusing Armenian students and teachers of being in contact with the rebels. The damage was rebuilt later with compensation paid by the Ottoman Government.

In 1915 the Armenian genocide came to Merzifon. That spring and summer, initially rights were restricted, then property was seized, and then hundreds of Armenians and Christians were seized and removed from the town.  On August 10, 1915, forces of the Turkish Ottoman Empire broke into the Anatolia College campus and seized Armenian Christian faculty and students.  Many were murdered on the spot; the others were marched off for "deportation" (in fact a death march). Those "deported" were never heard from again. This atrocity became known to the west when George White, President of the college at the time, returned to the United States and described the scene, resulting in The New York Times article "Armenians Killed with Axes by Turks—Members of the Faculty at Anatolia College Among More than 1200 Slain at Marsovan." That article begins: In the wake of the Armenian genocide the college took in and cared for hundreds of orphaned children of murdered Armenian parents.

The college was for the most part closed until after World War I. After the end of the WWI, the facilities of the college at the campus consisted of a kindergarten, a school for the Deaf, a college-level program, one of the largest hospitals in Asia Minor, and an orphanage for 2,000 orphans in addition to the theological seminary and high schools for boys and girls, all housed in more than 40 buildings of New England style. The activities of the American missionaries came de facto to an end with the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in 1918.

In 1921, Turkish nationalists under Mustafa Kemal executed three teachers and several students of the college during the "Amasya trials".

Relocation to Greece
After the Greco-Turkish War (1919–1922) and subsequent population exchange between Greece and Turkey, the college was closed in Merzifon to be reopened in Thessaloniki, Greece in 1924, as Anatolia College.

The college museum closed in 1939 and 130 of Manissadjian's plants from his collection, went sent to the Herbarium of Ankara University, Faculty of Science.

Books about the college
George E. White, an American missionary who was a teacher from 1890 and president from 1913 until 1921 at the school in Merzifon, wrote his memories in a book Adventuring With Anatolia College, published in 1940.

Bertha B. Morley, an American music teacher at Anatolia College in 1913–1915, wrote "Marsovan 1915: The Diaries of Bertha Morley," consisting of her 1915 diary entries at the college.  She describes the destruction of the Marsovan Armenian community; the arrest of Armenian intellectuals; and the methodical deportations and eventual destruction of deportees. Morley narrates how Armenian property was plundered by Ottoman local and central officials and how Armenian women and children were forced to convert and be absorbed into Muslim households. She also testifies to the efforts of Ottoman authorities to conceal their criminal activities.

In 2015, Wiliam McGrew, the college's ninth president (1974-1999), published an extensive historical account of the institution in Turkey and Greece under the title Educating across Cultures: Anatolia College in Turkey and Greece (Rowman & Littelfield, Lanham, Boulder, New York, London).

See also
 Anatolia College
 List of missionary schools in Turkey
 List of high schools in Turkey
 Education in the Ottoman Empire

References
 Bir Amerikan Misyonerinin Merzifon Amerikan Koleji Hatiralari (Memories of an American Missionary at the Merzifon American College), George E. White, Translated by Cem Tarık Yüksel, Enderun Kitapevi, İstanbul-1995. 
 Adventuring With Anatolia College, George E. White, Herald-Register Publishing Company, Grinnell, Iowa, March 1940
 https://genocideeducation.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/Armenians-Killed-with-Axes-by-Kurds-NYT-Current-History-Nov-1917.pdf
"A Mummy from Konya? Anatolia College's Forgotten Museum," Sağlık ve Eğitim Vakfi-Buluşma Dergisi, Temmuz (July) 2010, pp. 18–21: https://www.sev.org.tr/dergi/bulusma_temmuz_2010/HTML/

References