[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Duncan L. Hunter 2008 presidential campaign

Duncan L. Hunter's 2008 presidential campaign began when fourteen-term Congressman and Vietnam War veteran Duncan L. Hunter of California announced his intentions to run for the 2008 Republican nomination for President of the United States in January 2007.

In the campaign, Hunter emphasized his conservative credentials, focusing on the issues of border security, the War on Terrorism, and trade. Throughout 2007, he was in the second tier of Republican candidates, consistently receiving three percent or less support among Republicans in national polls. However, the campaign reached a high point after Hunter won the Texas Straw Poll.

Though he qualified for one National Convention delegate at the Wyoming caucuses, Hunter dropped out of the race in January 2008, following a poor turnout in the Nevada caucuses.

Background 

Hunter served as a First Lieutenant in the U.S. Army during the Vietnam War. He was awarded a Bronze Star, an Air Medal, and the Vietnam Service Medal for his efforts on the battlefield. Upon his return home, Hunter pursued a career in law and was admitted to the bar in 1976. Four years later, he won election to the U.S. House of Representatives as a Republican in the Reagan Revolution.

At the onset of the 2008 campaign, Hunter had served in Congress since 1981; representing California's 42nd (1981–83), 45th (1983-93), and 52nd (since 1993) congressional districts. During his tenure, he boasted a 92% lifetime rating from the American Conservative Union (ACU). Some of his successes included the passage of legislation leading to the construction of the 14-mile double-fence from the Pacific Ocean to Otay Mesa along the U.S.-Mexico border. He also helped pass the Secure Fence Act of 2006, which provided for the construction of an additional 670 miles of fence. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, Hunter pushed for increased military spending and advancements in military technology. He became chairman of the committee in 2003 and remained in the position until the Democratic Party won the majority of the House in the 2006 mid-term election.

Announcement 
On October 30, 2006, before a crowd of about 100 people on the Naval Base San Diego waterfront, Hunter announced the formation of an exploratory committee to begin raising campaign funds and organizing supporters for the Republican Party's 2008 presidential nomination. He reasoned, "[t]his is going to be a long road, it's a challenging road, there's going to be some rough and tumble, but I think it's the right thing to do for our country." He did not seek advice from party leaders before making the decision. The New York Times described the move as a "surprise."  Mesa College Political Science professor Carl Luna speculated that Hunter's run was an attempt to find "something to do" in preparation for his loss of the Armed Services Committee chairmanship with Democrats heavily favored to reclaim the House. Political analysts saw little chance for the campaign's success. Claremont McKenna College government professor Jack Pitney argued that due to low name recognition and "no following within the party", Hunter "faces extremely long odds".

After the announcement, Hunter received the endorsement of retired Air Force Brigadier General Chuck Yeager. He won the January 13, 2007 Maricopa County, Arizona straw poll, edging all three projected top tier candidates including Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, Senator John McCain of Arizona, and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani. Ten days later, Hunter filed papers with the Federal Elections Commission to officially begin his presidential campaign.

Campaign developments

First half of 2007 
In order to build support early in the campaign, Hunter participated in local straw polls. On March 1, at the Spartanburg, South Carolina poll, Hunter finished a close third in a statistical tie with McCain and Giuliani. The showing impressed Spartanburg Republican Gerald Emory who referred to Hunter as, "a true Ronald Reagan conservative that we can support." The following month he won the Anderson County, South Carolina straw poll and tied for second place in both the Greenwood County and Pickens County straw polls. Hunter thanked the counties for their support, which he claimed provided "a huge boost." He added, "[i]t is clear our message of maintaining a strong national defense, securing our border without amnesty, holding China accountable on trade, and protecting life are resonating with the voters. Our campaign is one of issues, not flash and expense. We don't have a jet or an army of consultants and paid staff. We do have the conservative message that is true. In the end, that will be what Americans want."