[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Nuclear power in the United Kingdom

hical concerns within UK society about the disposal option that would need to be resolved as part of the implementation process". Such a repository should start to be closed as soon as practicable rather than being left open for future generations. Fourteen additional recommendations were also made.

On 12 June 2008, a white paper, Managing Radioactive Waste Safely, A Framework for Implementing Geological Disposal was published confirming CoRWM's conclusion of geologic disposal of higher-activity wastes. The policy announcement confirmed that there would be one geologic disposal site, for both national legacy waste as well as potential wastes from future programmes. It announced that a process of volunteerism would be used in selecting a suitable site and invited communities from the UK to express interest. They would be rewarded by the infrastructure investment for the facility, jobs for the long term and a tailored package of benefits.

In January 2014, the building of the first dry spent PWR nuclear fuel store in the UK began at Sizewell B, where the existing spent fuel pool, which stores spent fuel under water, was expected to reach full capacity in 2015. It is intended to enable spent nuclear fuel produced from 2016 until at least 2035 to be stored at Sizewell B until a deep geological repository is available. In March 2017, the first cask containing spent nuclear fuel was installed.

In 2023, UK Nuclear Waste Services (NWS), launched in January 2022, began studies to evaluate sites that could be suitable for a geological disposal facility in locally-agreed community partnerships areas in Allerdale and Copeland in Cumbria near the Sellafield plant, and in Theddlethorpe in Lincolnshire. After any site is selected, it would take 10-15 years for further detailed investigative work.

Decommissioning

Responsibility
The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA), formed in April 2005 under the Energy Act 2004, oversees and manages the decommissioning and clean-up of the UK's older Magnox power plants and the reprocessing facilities at Sellafield, which were transferred to its ownership from BNFL, and the former nuclear research and development facilities previously run by the UKAEA.

Sites 
In August 2005, the following sites were listed for decommissioning:

 Berkeley, Gloucestershire
 Bradwell, Essex
 Calder Hall, Cumbria
 Capenhurst, Cheshire
 Chapelcross, Dumfriesshire
 Culham, Oxfordshire
 Dounreay, Caithness
 Drigg, Cumbria
 Dungeness, Kent
 Harwell, Oxfordshire
 Hinkley Point, Somerset
 Hunterston, Ayrshire
 Oldbury, Gloucestershire
 Sellafield / Windscale, Cumbria
 Sizewell, Suffolk
 Springfields, Lancashire
 Trawsfynydd, Gwynedd
 Winfrith, Dorset
 Wylfa, Isle of Anglesey

Costs
Prior to the 2002 white paper Managing the Nuclear Legacy, the cost of decommissioning these  facilities had been estimated at around £42billion. The white paper estimated the costs at £48billion at March 2002 prices, an increase of £6bn, with the cost of decommissioning Sellafield accounting for over 65% of the total. This figure included a rise in BNFL's estimated decommissioning liabilities from £35billion to £40.5billion, with an estimate of £7.4billion for UKAEA.

In June 2003, the Department of Trade and Industry estimated that decommissioning costs, including the cost of running the facilities still in operation for their remaining life, were approximately £56billion at 2003 prices, although the figure was 'almost certainly' expected to rise. This estimate was revised in subsequent years; to £57billion in September 2004; £63billion in September 2005; £65billion in March 2006; and to £73billion in March 2007. Around £46billion of the £73billion is for the decommissioning and clean-up of the Sellafield site.

In May 2008 a senior director at the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority indicated that the figure of £73billion might increase by several billion pounds. In 2019, the cost was given as £129billion.

In addition to The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority's costs, British Energy's liabilities in relation to spent nuclear fuels have risen. In February 2006, it was reported that these had increased to £5.3billion, an increase of almost £1billion. The costs of handling these is to be met by the Nuclear Liabilities Fund (NLF), the successor to the Nuclear Generation Decommissioning Fund. Although British Energy contributes to the NLF, the fund is underwritten by the Government. The House of Commons Public Accounts Committee noted in 2007 that British Energy may lack an incentive to reduce the eventual liabilities falling to the Nuclear Liabilities Fund.

Safety

Seismicity

Until the expansion of nuclear power in the 1980s, seismic activity in the UK had not received a great deal of attention. As a result of the new interest in the topic, in 1994 the British Geological Survey published a catalogue of earthquakes.