[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# K. T. McFarland

oundation from June 2008 until her appointment as Deputy National Security Advisor in 2017. She also served as a distinguished advisor to the Foundation for Defense of Democracies. McFarland is a life member of the Council on Foreign Relations.

Trump administration

Deputy National Security Advisor

On November 25, 2016, the Washington Post reported that McFarland had been selected as President-elect Donald Trump's Deputy National Security Advisor, a position that does not require Senate confirmation. The selection surprised some people given McFarland's length of time away from government and lack of experience with personnel and crisis management. However, her former boss Henry Kissinger praised the selection. Retired general Michael T. Flynn, who had been selected as President Trump's national security adviser, had ties to McFarland and tweeted a welcome to her. Former U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman also praised McFarland for being "one of our country's most experienced, informed and wise foreign policy and national security experts". McFarland 

On February 14, 2017, Flynn announced his resignation after he became embroiled in controversy regarding discussions he had with Russian officials. The Hill reported that McFarland intended to stay on at Trump's request. Further reports indicated that a requirement for any replacement for Flynn was that McFarland be kept on as that person's number two; this was a disincentive for some potential nominees, including Vice Admiral Robert Harward. General H. R. McMaster was eventually named Flynn's replacement.

In mid-March 2017, Dina Habib Powell was named as another Deputy National Security Advisor, with an emphasis on strategy. According to Politico, the appointment had been "designed to effectively push out McFarland", who was "seen as a weak deputy". The increasing problems surrounding Flynn also made McFarland vulnerable due to the ties between the two.

On April 9, 2017, it was reported that McFarland had been asked to step down from her position after less than three months in the role but that she had been offered a position as the U.S. Ambassador to Singapore. Flynn's successor, H. R. McMaster, requested her resignation. McFarland said she viewed the move as a "promotion", and a White House official encouraged this interpretation.

Ambassadorial nomination and Special Counsel investigation

After Ricky L. Waddell was nominated to succeed McFarland as Deputy National Security Advisor on May 10, 2017, McFarland was officially announced as Trump's nominee for U.S. Ambassador to Singapore on May 19, 2017. On June 15, 2017, McFarland was formally nominated by the White House. Her confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee took place on July 20, 2017. During the hearing, McFarland stated that she believed Russia had interfered in the 2016 U.S. elections. On September 19, McFarland's confirmation was approved by the committee and was sent on to the full Senate, but as of the end of November, her nomination had not been scheduled for a vote in the full Senate.

On December 1, Robert Mueller's Special Counsel investigation named McFarland as one of the people involved with Michael Flynn, her former supervisor, and Jared Kushner in developments leading up to Flynn's guilty plea for lying to the FBI. In particular, the investigation found that Kushner and McFarland had briefed Flynn on what to say about U S. sanctions against Russia. The next day, an email McFarland wrote during the transition surfaced; it read: "If there is a tit-for-tat escalation Trump will have difficulty improving relations with Russia, which has just thrown U.S.A. election to him." After talking to Kislyak, Flynn informed McFarland of the contents of the conversation; McFarland, in turn, passed on the information to one of her colleagues.

In response to these revelations, Senate Foreign Relations Committee ranking members Mark Warner and Dianne Feinstein suggested that McFarland testify before Congress, Sen. Cory Booker questioned whether McFarland had been fully forthcoming in her previous testimony, and Committee Chair Bob Corker pronounced her nomination "frozen". By December 5, committee Democrats had placed a formal Senate hold on her nomination.

At the end of 2017, the U.S. Senate sent McFarland's nomination back to the White House rather than tabling it until 2018, along with other pending nominations. On January 10, 2018, the administration renominated McFarland. On February 2, 2018, McFarland withdrew her nomination due to concerns about her answers to questions related to links between Trump associates and Russian officials and spies.

In September 2018, it became known that McFarland had indeed walked back her story to the special prosecutor. The FBI accepted McFarland's contention that she had not intentionally misstated facts.