[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# India–Israel relations

countries in the world," and Vajpayee was sure that Sharon's visit would bring the two countries closer together.

2006

In early 2006 Indian government ministers Sharad Pawar, Kapil Sibal, and Kamal Nath visited Israel. Then-Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi visited Israel in October 2006.

2012

Despite "India's unwavering support for the Palestinian cause", Foreign Minister SM Krishna made a two-day visit to Israel in 2012. The Israeli PM deemed this visit by Krishna a historical step forward in developing the relations between the two nations.

2014

In May 2014 after victory of Narendra Modi in 2014 general election Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu personally congratulated Modi. Modi in turn met his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu in New York City on the sideline of the UN General Assembly during his US visit in 2014. This was the first meeting between the Prime Ministers of the two countries in over a decade. On the occasion of the Hanukkah festival, Indian PM Modi greeted his Israeli counterpart in Hebrew on Twitter while the Israeli PM replied in Hindi.

Indian Home Minister Rajnath Singh visited Israel in November 2014 to observe the country's border security arrangements. During his tour he also met Israeli PM Netanyahu. Breaking from convention, Singh was the first Indian minister to visit Israel without also visiting Palestine on the same trip. In the same year, former Israeli President Shimon Peres visited India. A high level Israeli delegation with the Agriculture Minister of Israel, Yair Shamir, also participated in the Vibrant Gujarat summit in 2015. In December 2014, a news article was published in The Hindu which stated that "India may end support to Palestine at UN".

2015

In February 2015 Israeli Defence Minister Moshe Ya'alon came to India. During his visit he participated in Aero India 2015. He also met his Indian counterpart, as well as the Indian PM. Pranab Mukherjee became the first President Of India to visit Israel from October 13 to 15, 2015. Mukherjee was given the rare honour of addressing the Knesset.

2016

Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj visited Israel in January 2016. During the visit, she visited the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial in Jerusalem, and met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, President Reuven Rivlin, members of the cabinet, and the Indian Jewish communities in Israel.

In September 2016, Indian Minister of Agriculture, Radha Mohan Singh visited Israel to bolster India-Israel agricultural ties. He met his Israeli counterpart Uri Ariel, where the discussion concerned about collaborative opportunities in agriculture between both the countries.

Israeli President Reuven Rivlin visited India for a week-long state visit in November 2016, becoming the second Israeli President to visit the country. Rivlin visited New Delhi, Agra, Karnal, Chandigarh and Mumbai. He spent the last day of his visit in Mumbai paying homage to the victims of the 2008 Mumbai attacks, and meeting with the Indian Jewish community. Israel currently regards Iran as a major threat to its national security, and Rivlin expressed this concern in meetings with Prime Minister Modi. Following his visit, Rivlin told Israeli media that despite growing economic ties with both countries, the Indian government had assured him that India would support Israel despite the former's relations with Iran. Rivlin told The Jerusalem Post, "They assure us that when the time will come they will never, never, ever let anyone [act against] the existence of Israel."

2021
In October 2021, India's Minister of External Affairs, S. Jaishankar,  made his first visit to Israel since taking office.

Official state visits

Narendra Modi's visit to Israel (2017)
In July 2017, Narendra Modi became the first ever Indian Prime Minister to visit Israel. It was noted that Prime Minister Modi did not visit Palestine during the trip, breaking from convention. With the sole exception of Union Minister Rajnath Singh, previous trips by Indian ministers and President Mukherjee included visits to both Israel and Palestine. The Indian media described the move as the "dehyphenation" of India's relations with the two states.

As a personal gesture, Israel named a new type of Chrysanthemum flower after Narendra Modi. The media houses of both countries had termed the visit to be 'historic'. During the visit, India and Israel signed 7 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs), which are listed as below:

 MoU for setting up of India-Israel Industrial Research and Development and Technological Innovation Fund (I4F)
 MoU for Water Conservation in India
 MoU on State Water Utility Reform in India
 India-Israel Development Cooperation – 3-year work program in Agriculture 2018–2020
 Plan of cooperation regarding atomic clocks
 MoU regarding cooperation in GEO-LEO optical link
 MoU regarding cooperation in Electric Propulsion for Small Satellites