[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Gear Fighter Dendoh

energy based attacks.
Worm: Appears in episodes 33 and 34. Powers include burrowing, whip-like arms when not in drill mode, and flight.
Lance: Appears in episode 36. Powers include zweihander sword, and shield, and flight.
Mace: Appears in episode 36. Powers include a long ax, a shield, and flight.

Heavy Machines
Spear: Appears in episode 13 although its presence is known at the end of episode 12. Powers include flight, four red spear arms, and green energy beams from the upper section.
Scissors: Appears in episode 13. Powers include flight, launchable crushing beetle mandibles on the head on a tread, and a red heat ray from each wing,
Elecideath Probe: Appear in episode 14. Powers include spear legs, burrowing through ice, a high resistance to cold, and purple eye beams.
Elecideath: Appears in episode 14. Powers include flight, satellite hacking mines, summoning probes, burrowing through ice, a high resistance to cold, orange and purple head lasers, and can swim at 500 kilometers per hour.
Filla: Appears in episode 15. Powers include flight, stinger tipped tendrils, tiny mines from its leaves, and purple lasers from each shoulder.
Skasha: Appears in episode 16. Powers include flight, mouth rockets, pink lasers from its four arms, and can split itself in half and use both halves to entrap enemies in a yellow electrical field as it crushes them with its body.
Defender: Appears in episode 17. Powers include flight, four remote pink energy barrier generators, and a pair of turbines that fire liquid nitrogen.
Diver: Appears in episode 18. Powers include flight at 5000 knots, swimming as far down as ten kilometers underwater at 131 kilometers per hour, sharp teeth armed with laser cannon at each very end of the mouth, and a powerful tail. According to Dendoh's data it is 308.5 meters long although in actual length comparison it is barely over 100 meters.
Azaroth: Appears in episode 19. Powers include flight and dual green laser cannons.
Babulto: Appears in episode 20. Powers include flight, crab claw arms armed with flamethrowers, and explosive foam from its mouth.

Episode list

Video Game
Gear Fighter Dendoh has spawned one platform title for the PlayStation.  It was released in 2001.

Dendoh was also featured in the Super Robot Wars series of Japanese simulation games. It has appeared in 2002's Super Robot Wars R for the Game Boy Advance and Super Robot Wars MX for the PlayStation 2 and its PSP version.

Homage Weapons
In episode 24 of the series Dendoh is forced to fight without the aid of data weapons, forcing it to use an arsenal of weapons that are homages to various early mecha anime. This incarnation has been dubbed as Full Armor Dendoh.

3-Tube Cannon and 9-Tube Missile Launcher: On the left and right shoulders, respectively; these weapons are a homage to Xabungle, specifically its full armor mode.
Beam Rifle: On the right hand; this weapon is a homage to the original Gundam's beam rifle.
Bow and Energy Encased Arrows: On the left wrist; this weapon is a homage to Raideen.
3-Barrel Missile Launcher: On the right ankle; this weapon is a homage to the Zaku 2 from the original Mobile Suit Gundam.
Super Dendoh Yo-Yos: Stored on the hips; these weapons are a homage to Combattler V.
Double Tomahawk: Stored on back; these weapons are a homage to Getter Robo G's form of Getter Dragon.
Dendoh Sword: Stored on the back of the waist; this weapon is a homage to Voltes V.

References

External links
 
  

2000 anime television series debuts
Alien invasions in television
Odex
Super robot anime and manga
Sunrise (company)
Anime with original screenplays
TV Tokyo original programming