[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of smoking bans

o more accurately describe those sheltered outdoor areas of bars and restaurants that will be obliged to prohibit smoking (e.g. spaces protected with plastic sheeting, canopies and barriers) and to include chewing tobacco products.

Guinea
Guinea has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.

Guatemala
Guatemala has implemented a comprehensive smoking ban covering all types of places and institutions. In December 2008 the Guatemalan Congress approved Decree 74-2008 and it became effective in February 2009. This law restricts smoking in all work-places including health-care facilities, governmental facilities, schools, universities, airports, bars and restaurants. However, two years after the law's implementation enforcement has been deficient. Governments are facing pressures to permit work-place smoking once more by local tobacco companies.

Guernsey
Smoke-free ordinances were introduced at different times in the Bailiwick of Guernsey, a British Crown dependency. Smoking was restricted in all enclosed public places in the island of Guernsey, including workplaces, bars, clubs and restaurants, on 2 July 2006, under the "Smoking (Prohibition in Public Places and Workplaces) (Guernsey) Law 2005". Anyone who breaks the law, upon conviction, could be fined up to the maximum of £1000 (~€1150, ~$1470). Smoking is allowed anywhere outside and in whatever company.

In Alderney, the States of Alderney passed a smoke-free law with the President's casting vote on 13 January 2010; the legislation came into force at 4 am on 1 June 2010.

Smoking in indoor public places continues to be permitted in Sark, except in pubs and restaurants.

Guyana
Guyana has a smoking ban in public places, indoor work spaces and public transport. The laws are very rarely enforced and smoking inside of local village bars and even in the capital city, Georgetown, nightclubs is very common. Offenders could face a 10,000.00 GYD fine if they are caught.

Honduras
Honduras strictly banned smoking in all indoors places in February 2011. It carries fines of $311 per incident, with police involvement, and fines up to $6,000 for businesses with possibility of being forced to close, and has been strongly enforced, even in provincial areas, including in large bars and nightclubs.  Billiards areas at night continue to allow smokers.

Hungary

Smoking has been restricted for several years on public transport, in hospitals and airports and in public and national buildings; including the Parliament. From 2010, a smoke-free policy has been in effect in playgrounds and underpasses. Several cities, including Budapest, have prohibited smoking at public transport stops. Following a decade of resistance by the tobacco lobby, a comprehensive nationwide smoke-free law covering all indoors public spaces (including workplaces, clubs, pubs, restaurants) came into effect from January 2012. Since July 2013, the sale of tobacco is limited to state-controlled (but privately owned) tobacco shops called Nemzeti Dohánybolt (National Tobacco Shop), the number of stores where people can buy tobacco reduced from 40,000 to 42,000 to 5,300. In March 2017, Hungary was one of only seven EU member states that have a complete ban on smoking in all enclosed public places.

Iceland

Smoking and the use of other tobacco products are prohibited in most public spaces in Iceland. This includes all enclosed spaces in common ownership, all public land intended for use by children, all public transport and all services; including restaurants, bars, clubs and cafés.

Irland

A nationwide smoke-free law pertaining to public places came into effect from 2 October 2008. Places where smoking is restricted include auditoriums, movie theatres, hospitals, public transport (aircraft, buses, trains, metros, monorails, taxis, autos) and their related facilities (airports, bus stands/stations, railway stations), restaurants, hotels, bars, pubs, amusement centres, offices (government and private), libraries, courts, post offices, markets, shopping malls, canteens, refreshment rooms, banquet halls, discothèques, coffee houses, educational institutions and parks. Smoking is allowed on roads, inside one's home or vehicle. Smoking is also permitted in airports, restaurants, bars, pubs, discothèques and some other enclosed workplaces if they provide designated separate smoking areas. Anybody violating this law will be charged with a fine of 200. The sale of tobacco products within 100 metres of educational institutions is also prohibited.  This particular rule is strictly enforced. Further as of 2014, there is strict provision of imprisonment for selling tobacco products to any person aged below 18 years of age .

The Cable Television Network (Regulation) Amendment Bill, in force since 8 September 2000, completely prohibits cigarette and alcohol advertisements.

Indonesia