[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Wynn Davidson

John Wynn Davidson (August 14, 1825 – June 26, 1881) was a brigadier general in the United States Army during the American Civil War and an American Indian fighter.  In 1850, he co-led the Bloody Island Massacre of 60-200 Pomo Native American old men, women, and children as part of the wider California genocide. 

In 1866, he received brevet grade appointments as a major general of volunteers and in the regular U.S. Army for his Civil War service.

Biography
Davidson was born in Fairfax County, Virginia. He was the son of William B. Davidson, an artillery officer in the United States Army, and the former Elizabeth Chapman Hunter. Hunter, Roger, and Charles were his three other siblings. He was the oldest of four boys. His father died from disease while serving in Florida during the Second Seminole War in 1840. His mother died ten years later, shortly after remarrying.

He graduated from West Point in 1845. His father graduated from there in 1815. Shortly after graduation he was promoted to 2nd Lieutenant in the 1st U.S. Dragoons and participated in the Mexican–American War, seeing considerable action at the San Pasqual and the Rio San Gabriel battles. On May 15, 1850, Davidson and Captain Nathaniel Lyon led a regiment of the 1st U.S. Dragoons in an massacre of the Pomo population of the island of Bo-No-Po-Ti in northern California.

Following the war, Davidson was promoted to 1st Lieutenant and assigned to the Western frontier.  He served as the regimental quartermaster and adjutant. He led 2 companies of the 1st Dragoon Regiment against the Jicarilla Apaches in the Battle of Cieneguilla on March 30, 1854, where he was badly defeated in what was to be the fourth worst defeat suffered by the American military during the Western Indian Wars. In 1855 Davidson, who had still earned praise for commanding at Cieneguilla, was promoted captain and was in command of Fort Tejon, California when the American Civil War erupted.

In 1851, he married Clara McGunnegle, the daughter of a merchant in St. Louis.  They had several children.

Civil War
He was allegedly offered a commission in the Confederate Army but turned it down. Davidson was transferred to the east and took command of a brigade in the newly formed Army of the Potomac. On February 6, 1862, President Abraham Lincoln appointed Davidson to the grade of brigadier general of U.S. volunteers, to rank from February 3, 1862, the same day the U.S. Senate confirmed the previously submitted nomination.

General Davidson assumed command of the 3rd Brigade, 2nd Division, IV Corps during the Peninsula Campaign.  He fought at the battles of Yorktown and Williamsburg.  During the Seven Days Battles he received brevet promotions in the Regular Army for his service at Gaines' Mill and Golding's Farm.  Shortly after the culmination of the Seven Days' fighting, Davidson was transferred to the Trans-Mississippi Theater where he was placed in command of the Dist. of St. Louis.  From December 3, 1862 to March 26, 1863 he was also in command of the so-called Army of Southeast Missouri until much of his army was transferred to Ulysses S. Grant in preparation for the Vicksburg Campaign. He retained command of the Dist. of St. Louis until June 16, 1863 when he briefly commanded the Dist. of Southeast Missouri.

From August 10 to November 3, 1863 Davidson commanded the 1st Division of Frederick Steele's Army of Arkansas in his most distinguished role in the west.  He led Union advance into central Arkansas and won the Battle of Bayou Fourche, which led directly to the fall of Confederate-held Little Rock.  After the Little Rock expedition, Davidson commanded the cavalry in the Dept. of the Gulf before returning to command the cavalry in the Dist. of Southeast Missouri.

Davidson's raid
Beginning November 27, 1864, Davidson was ordered to lead a 4,000 strong cavalry raid from Union held Baton Rouge to sever the M & O Railroad near State Line, Mississippi.  The raid was intended to divert resources away from Confederate John Bell Hood's operations near Nashville and to threaten and harass Mobile. Additionally, the raid was to support Sherman's March to the Sea by requiring the Confederates to keep resources in the Mobile theater of operations.  After departing Baton Rouge Davidson's forces reached Greensburg capturing several Confederate prisoners, on November 29, 1864, then to Tangipahoa where they captured a confederate conscript camp and destroyed the New Orleans, Jackson, Great Northern Railroad.