[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Edgio

y had acquired Clickability from Limelight.
 September 2021, the company acquired Moov Corporation, doing business as Layer0, a provider of sub-second web apps and APIs through an all-in-one Jamstack platform.
 June 2022, the company acquired Edgecast from Yahoo! Inc. for approximately $300 million.

Patent lawsuits
In June 2006, Limelight Networks was sued by Akamai Technologies and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology over alleged patent infringement. In April 2009, the District Court for the District of Massachusetts ruled that Limelight Networks did not infringe, overturning the February 2008 finding of a Boston jury. Similarly, in December 2007, Limelight Networks was sued by Level 3 Communications over alleged intellectual property and patent infringement. In January 2009, a jury ruled that Limelight Networks did not infringe. Akamai Technologies appealed part of the decision. On April 20, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit granted the petition by Akamai Technologies for rehearing en banc its appeal in Akamai Technologies, Inc. v. Limelight Networks, Inc. The order vacated the earlier opinion of December 20, 2010. The order includes a request to file new briefs addressing this question: If separate entities each perform separate steps of a method claim, under what circumstances would that claim be directly infringed and to what extent would each of the parties be liable?

On August 31, 2012, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued its opinion in the case. The Court of Appeals stated that the trial court determined that Limelight did not directly infringe on Akamai's patent. A slim majority in this three-way divided opinion also announced a revised legal theory of induced infringement, remanded the case to the trial court giving Akamai an opportunity for a new trial to attempt to prove induced infringement. On December 28, 2012, Limelight filed a petition asking the Supreme Court to review the decision of the Federal Circuit regarding the standard for induced infringement in cases where multiple parties may perform various steps of a patented claim. Akamai filed a cross petition asking the Court to also review the standard for direct infringement in those cases. On June 24, 2013, the Supreme Court asked the Solicitor General to weigh in on the petition for certiorari. In June 2014, the Supreme Court reached a unanimous decision rejecting Akamai's claim of "induced infringement".

On July 1, 2016, it was announced that the Massachusetts District Court entered the final judgment in the case, with Limelight paying $51M in total damages to Akamai (to be reflected in Limelight's 2016 Q2 earnings).

See also 
Streaming media

References 

General references:

Limelight Networks - Customers
The Forrester Wave Vendor Summary, Q2 2006, June 9, 2006 - Limelight Networks Offers Low-Cost Rich Media Content Delivery
Macromedia Press Release, November 15, 2005 - Macromedia and Limelight Networks deliver Limelight MediaEdge Streaming for Macromedia Flash

2001 establishments in Arizona
2007 initial public offerings
American companies established in 2001
Companies based in Tempe, Arizona
Companies listed on the Nasdaq
Content delivery networks
Online mass media companies of the United States