[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Fraser (military officer)

ns and their allies were instrumental in enabling western back Afghan leaders to develop a new constitution, to ensure free and democratic elections, to make it possible for more girls to go to school, and to initiate reform in defence, justice and finance structures within the country.

Controversy

Despite its success, the operation and its aftermath were not without controversy. In 2007 and 2008, newspaper reports revealed that the Leopard tanks sent to Afghanistan had been taken from Canadian monuments. Fraser had requested tanks for the operation to make advances into Taliban controlled settlements while minimizing collateral damage. According to the Canadian Forces, however, such reports were exaggerated since it retained sufficient numbers of functioning tanks in its inventory at the time.

In 2016, Operation Medusa was once again brought into public discussion after Fraser admitted that he believed one of the results of the battle had been counterproductive. He commented that the coalition’s attempts to remove the Taliban while attacking al-Qaeda complicated the international community’s ability to complete its mission. According to Fraser, this change in strategy left a vacuum of leadership in its wake. The Taliban consequently took root and flourished at a local level. Afghan leaders have since resumed negotiations with the Taliban in Pakistan, attesting to Fraser’s analysis. According to Fraser, Canada made a similar mistake in Libya, which has since suffered two civil wars. He urged in 2018 that the whole-of-government, multicultural approach used by Canada during Operation Medusa be applied in the upcoming peacekeeping efforts in Mali.

In 2017, Harjit Sajjan, the Minister of National Defence, who had served as the primary liaison between Canadian commanders and local Afghan leaders during the conflict, claimed that he had been the architect of the operation. Later that year, Sajjan issued a formal apology for embellishing his role in the battle after he was criticized by fellow military personnel. His apology included reference to David Fraser, hailing Fraser’s leadership as elemental to Operation Medusa’s success.

Reception

Reception of the book was generally positive. Brett Boudreau extolled its clear and accessible account of the battle, while Murray Brewster commented that it spoke volumes with its dignified omission of Harjit Sajjan and the ensuing controversy. The greatest acclaim was from J. Paul de B. Taillon. His article in The Dorchester Review stated that Operation Medusa should be "compulsory reading for junior and senior officers, politicians, bureaucrats, and academics." Taillon also deemed the book a "corrective for those who believe that fighting or reading about the ‘last war’ is of little value."

Retirement
Fraser’s first appointment in the private sector was as chief operating officer of Blue Goose Pure Foods, a retailer of organic meats headquartered in Toronto. He took up the same position at INKAS, a national manufacturing company specializing in armoured vehicles, until June 2016. Fraser has since worked professionally as a public speaker. In 2016, he delivered the keynote address at the FABTECH Canada conference, focusing his remarks on the nature of effective teamwork and leadership.

Operation Medusa: The Furious Battle That Saved Afghanistan from the Taliban

In collaboration with Brian Hanington, David Fraser wrote Operation Medusa: The Furious Battle That Saved Afghanistan from the Taliban, a book about his experience as the commander of this operation. It was published in 2018 and sat on The Globe and Mail Canadian Non-Fiction Bestsellers List for a number of weeks. The book offers the senior commander’s view of the political, strategic and tactical complexities of the bloodiest battle in NATO’s history. It has been described by Murray Brewster as a cautionary tale of political hubris that offered lessons for Canada’s current peacekeeping missions.

Awards
Fraser received numerous awards during his tenure in the Canadian Armed Forces. The United States government presented him with the Legion of Merit and the Bronze Star. He was also awarded several Canadian honours, such as the Commander of Military Merit award, the Meritorious Service Cross, the Vimy Award, the Atlantic Council of Canada Award and the Meritorious Service Medal.

References

Canadian generals
Canadian people of Scottish descent
Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)
Queen's University at Kingston alumni