[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 36th Iowa Infantry Regiment

e slowly strangled to death.  After nearly 10 minutes a Union surgeon pronounced him dead. Some federal soldiers who witnessed the execution described it as a "sickening" and "ghastly" affair. but evidence from diaries and letters indicates most felt no remorse or were disturbed by Dodd's execution.

The Camden Expedition of the Red River Campaign 
On 6 January 1864, the Army activated the VII Army Corps to reorganize the former "Expeditionary Army of Arkansas" that had captured Little Rock.  Additional regiments were brought to Little Rock from other theaters through the months of January, February and March. The formal announcement of the establishment of the VII Army Corps was made to the troops in February. Steele was resistant to the notion of invading southern Arkansas, primarily due to the already existing shortage of rations at Little Rock, and the fact that any expedition south of the Arkansas river would further distance the army from its already precarious supply lines. Finally Steele received a direct order from Grant (his West Point classmate) to move south and proceed toward Shreveport, Louisiana to link up with Union forces under command of General Nathaniel Banks, who by then had already commenced a campaign up the Red River, converging upon Shreveport. The plan called for Steele's Corps to link up with Banks there and together the combined Union force would push into East Texas to "Plant the US flag." It was hoped that Steele's southward thrust from Little Rock would catch Confederate Commander E. Kirby Smith—Commanding the Confederate Army of the Trans-Mississippi—in a pincer movement, force Smith to fight a two-front action and thus divert precious Confederate resources from the main line of battle on the Red River. It proved to be one of the most ill-advised Union operations of the entire war.

Against his better judgment, the skeptical Steele departed Little Rock on 23 March with some 12,000 troops, including the 36th Iowa Infantry Regiment, restricted to half-ratrions. He knew that the country through which he would march was barren and that foraging alone would not supply sufficient grass for horses and mules or food for the troops, and that federal supply trains from Little Rock and Pine Bluff would be essential to his effort. The column immediately encountered rebel skirmishers along the line of march that followed the Old Military Road from Little Rock southwestward to Washington Arkansas near the Texas border. Steele would skirmish and fight major actions against the Rebel Army of Arkansas under Major-General Sterling Price on each of the next 30 days. The first major engagement took place as Steele's column reached Elkin's Ford on the Little Missouri River on 3 April. Some 2,500 rebels lay in ambush at the ford and viciously attacked as the federals made their crossing.  A sharp infantry and artillery exchange ensued in which the 1st Battalion of the Thirty-sixth Iowa played a key role. Under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel Francis Drake, the small Federal detachment of about 500 men from Companies A, D & G, 36th Iowa, three companies of the 43rd Indiana, two picket companies of dismounted troopers of the 1st Iowa Cavalry, and a two-gun artillery section from Battery E, 2nd Missouri Light Artilley skirmished all day as the Confederates bought time to bring up 2,500 reinforcements under command of Major-General John S. Marmaduke after nightfall. Fighting renewed at 6 a.m. the following mornings and lasted 7 hours as Drake and his small command gave ground stubbornly as the larger rebel force tried to drive them back into the Little Missouri River. Meanwhile, Colonel Charles Kittredge moved up the remaining 7 companied of the 36th Iowa to Drake's support. Ordering them to lie down behind a slight ridge on the edge of a cleared field, they lay in wait for the right moment. Marmaduke's artillery concentrated own both Union flanks and on the Federal gun section at last compelled the three companies of the 43rd Indiana holding the Union left flank to give way. Retreating toward the field in disarray, Colonel Kittredge ordered his 7 companies to stand up and fire. They delivered such a devastating volley of musket fire at point blank range that Marmadukes' rebels were completely routed and forced to retire south toward Prairie D'Ane with significant casualties.

Steele's column was at this time reinforced by Brigadier General John Thayer's Frontier Division which had marched from Fort Smith.  The combined column continued onward, harassed at every opportunity by rebel skirmishers and snipers as it proceeded slowly on dusty roads through thick forests to the southwest. These attacks slowed Steele's progress and the Corps managed to move only 82 miles in 10 days. Facing the unexpected resistance, and growing dangerously short on supplies, Steele placed all troops on quarter-rations.