[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 27th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

n's majority in Wisconsin. Nevertheless, the Copperhead editor of the Manitowoc Pilot, who had earlier railed against the war as depriving the region of "its best producers for the sake of the nigger," reported that the ballots of the strongly Democratic Company D from Manitowoc had been thrown out.

Mobile and Texas 
For the Mobile campaign, the regiment boarded transports to depart Little Rock on February 7. Joining Edward Canby's forces at New Orleans on February 12 after the journey down the Arkansas and Mississippi Rivers, the regiment reembarked from Algiers on February 20 for the voyage to Mobile. After disembarking at Navy Cove on Mobile Bay, the regiment encamped on Mobile Point near Fort Morgan, where it was assigned to the 3rd Brigade of Benton's 3rd Division of Granger's XIII Corps on February 27. Krez was placed in command of the brigade, which included also the 33rd Iowa, 77th Ohio, and the 28th Wisconsin. Major Charles H. Cunningham became regimental commander. With Canby's army, the regiment left camp on March 17 and occupied trenches besieging Spanish Fort on March 27. The regiment lost five killed and five wounded during picket and fatigue duty before the Confederates evacuated the fort on the night of April 8. On the next morning. the 27th Wisconsin marched five miles to Fort Blakeley, arriving just as Steele's troops captured it. The fall of Fort Blakeley allowed for the capture of Mobile, ending the campaign. After marching through Mobile, the regiment rejoined the brigade at Whistler's Station on April 15, camping there for four days. Beginning on April 19, the regiment marched at least fifty miles up the Tombigbee River to McIntosh's Bluff to build fortifications. Krez remained in command of the brigade and Olmsted was recorded as regimental commander on April 30. After Confederate general Richard Taylor surrendered his forces in the region, the fortifications were rendered unnecessary and the regiment was transported back to Mobile on May 9.

After several weeks in camp near Mobile, the regiment was embarked for the voyage across the Gulf of Mexico to occupy Texas on June 1. The regiment arrived at Brazos Santiago on June 6, marching to Clarksville, opposite Bagdad at the mouth of the Rio Grande on June 13. The regiment finished its active service there conducting picket and guard duty on the Mexican border before being sent to Brownsville for mustering out on August 2. After the completion of this process, the regiment departed for home on August 29. Reaching New Orleans on September 5, the regiment was transported up the Mississippi to Cairo, Illinois, where they boarded trains on the Illinois Central Railroad to Madison. The regiment was paid off and disbanded soon after it arrived there on September 17.

Strength and casualties
The 27th Wisconsin was mustered in with 865 men, and gained 24 recruits in 1863, 236 in 1864, and 68 in 1865, mustering out with 585 men. A total of 1,196 men served with the regiment. According to wartime records, 244 died, four were reported missing, 56 deserted, 57 were transferred, and 248 discharged. According to Dyer's Compendium, the regiment lost 22 men killed in action or mortally wounded, and five officers and 232 men to disease, for a total of 259 deaths.

See also

 List of Wisconsin Civil War units
 Wisconsin in the American Civil War

References

Citations

Bibliography 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Military units and formations established in 1863
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865
Units and formations of the Union Army from Wisconsin
1863 establishments in Wisconsin