[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Algernon Sidney Crapsey

ovement in the face of the poverty caused by the Depression of 1893.  He visited people in asylums and prisons.

Together, the Crapseys established the first training school for kindergarten teachers in Rochester. They also began a night school with classes in "domestic science and mechanical arts."

In 1897, Crapsey published a book entitled A Voice in the Wilderness. In it, he made five statements affirming his orthodoxy:
He reaffirmed the vows which he made at the time of his ordination.
He professed his belief that the Holy Scriptures are the Word of God.
He professed his belief, explicit and implicit, in the Apostles' and Nicene Creeds.
He professed his use and veneration of the Sacraments as the means of union between the soul and God.
He said that he was ready to follow the Bishops and others who are set over him in the Lord.

While at St. Andrew's, the Crapseys lost two daughters. Ruth died of undulant fever in 1898 at age eleven and daughter Emily died in 1901 at age 24 of appendicitis.

The twenty-fifth anniversary of the Crapsey's coming to St. Andrew's was on June 1, 1904. The congregation had a special service to celebrate the occasion and gave him gifts. A Rochester newspaper extolled Crapsey as "a power for good in the community for 25 years."

Crapsey published a book in 1905 entitled Religion and Politics. It was based on a series of lectures in which Crapsey "advocated that the church become involved in social reform."

Opposition to ecclesiastical authority
In his autobiography, Crapsey says that he had been a heretic from his tenth year. "A heretic," he says, "is one who thinks and gives voice to his own thought," and has difficulty submitting to authority. Crapsey characterizes himself as a "Humanist," who took God for granted. His allegiance to Jesus was based on His humanity more than on His divinity.

Crapsey pictured himself  "as a simple parish priest, primarily concerned with the welfare of his parishioners."  However, he was not satisfied with "the dogma of the church" and he felt it is duty to speak publicly about this fact.

Crapsey wanted to be elected a bishop, but, when he was not, he declared himself a "prophet." From his perspective this office was more important than that of a bishop, and it lifted him above "mundane denominationalism." Rather than accept the truth and historicity of the Bible merely because they were part of the "historic Christian faith" as received by his church, turned to "developments in scientific research" and to "higher criticism" of the Bible. Crapsey was "proud to acknowledge his heresy" because of his "rebellious, yet ethical heritage demanded it."

Conflict with Bishop Walker
There has been a broad agreement in the literature on the subject that the action against Crapsey was the work of Bishop William David Walker as "a strong-willed bishop" and of "conservatives" in the diocese. However, in his article "Algernon Sidney Crapsey and the Move for Presentment," Stephen Todd Neese documents Crapsey's "incessant public exhibition" and his "prodding the diocese" until it finally resulted in his trial.

In 1885, Crapsey was feeling "discouragement," both because of "a sense of personal failure" and "a disillusionment in the Christian Church as a whole." He described his disillusionment in a sermon at a Presbyterian Church in Rochester. This occasioned Crapsey's first run-in with Bishop Walker because Walker had specifically forbidden Crapsey to preach in a Presbyterian Church.3

In 1901, Crapsey published a tractate with the title  "The Law of Liberty: The Nature and Limit of Religious Thought." In the tractate, he wrote, "a free thinker has for ages been feared and hated by the officers of the church." Furthermore, a man who "gives himself over entirely" to a sect "no longer asks himself what is true." Crapsey observed that this is the "sad condition" of most of "the Protestant clergy." This was true in his opinion because "theological schools" teach "a fully formulated system of beliefs."

In December 1904, Crapsey began a series of Sunday evening lectures at St. Andrew's, which ended on February 18, 1905. As the lectures became "more unorthodox" they attracted greater notice in the press and by the diocese.  He called the final lecture "Religion and Politics." In the lecture, Crapsey specifically questioned two articles of the Apostles' Creed. He said that "the Virgin Birth" and the "resurrection of Jesus" were legends, not facts. He implied that Jesus was "wrong about various teachings," and he "denied the deity of Christ and the validity of the supernatural." Because Crapsey believed in his "own merit," he did not need "the redemptive atonement of Christ," which orthodoxy held to be required.  The lecture was reported in newspapers nationwide. Bishop Walker demanded a retraction, but Crapsey refused.