[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 88th Illinois Infantry Regiment

S. Grant directed the combined forces. The 1st Brigade included the 36th Illinois, 44th Illinois, 73rd Illinois, 74th Illinois, 88th Illinois, 22nd Indiana, 2nd Missouri, 15th Missouri, and 24th Wisconsin Infantry Regiments. The 1st Brigade lost 30 killed, 268 wounded, and 3 missing in the fighting.

About 3:00 pm with Major General William Tecumseh Sherman's attack on Missionary Ridge stalled, Grant ordered Thomas to capture the Confederate trenches at the base of the ridge. From left to right, Thomas' division commanders were Absalom Baird, Thomas J. Wood, Sheridan, and Richard W. Johnson. On Sheridan's front, the brigades were Brigadier General George D. Wagner, Colonel Charles Garrison Harker, and Sherman, left to right. When the assault began around 3:40 pm, many of the division, brigade, and regimental commanders were not clear what was the objective. After occupying the rifle pits at the base of the ridge, the men of Wagner's brigade began to climb the ridge without orders. The movement was imitated by Harker's brigade as well as by the other assaulting divisions. Sherman's brigade faced a steeper slope than the two brigades on its left. Colonel Sherman started climbing with his first wave of regiments while sending an orderly to urge the second wave to follow. Carrying the regimental colors, Sergeant John Cheevers led the 88th Illinois up the slope. He was so determined to get to the top first that he leapt over a barricade and landed in a trench full of Confederate soldiers. Though he belatedly realized that they might seize the colors, they simply pushed past him in their haste to get away. When Sherman's brigade cleared the crest of their enemies, the men began cheering wildly. First Lieutenant Charles H. Lane and Second Lieutenant Henry L. Bingham were killed in action.

1864–65

The 88th Illinois participated in the Knoxville campaign from 28 November to 8 December 1863. Subsequently, the unit engaged in operations in East Tennessee until February 1864. The regiment was at Loudon, Tennessee, until April and at Cleveland, Tennessee, through May. The unit took part in the Atlanta campaign from May to September 1864. The 1st Brigade was commanded successively by Colonel Sherman, Brigadier General Nathan Kimball, and Colonel Emerson Opdycke. The 2nd Division was led by Brigadier General John Newton, the IV Corps was commanded successively by Major Generals Oliver Otis Howard and David S. Stanley, the Army of the Cumberland was led by Thomas, and the combined armies were directed by Major General Sherman. The brigade consisted of the same units as at Missionary Ridge, with the 28th Kentucky replacing the 22nd Indiana. The 88th Illinois fought at the Battle of Rocky Face Ridge on 8–11 May, the Battle of Resaca on 14–15 May, the Battle of Adairsville on 17 May, and the Battle of New Hope Church on 25–26 May. First Lieutenant Noah W. Rae was mortally wounded at Adairsville and died 2 June.

There were clashes at Pine Mountain on 11–14 June and Lost Mountain on 15–17 June. In the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain on 27 June, Newton's division made the main IV Corps effort. The brigades of Wagner and Harker led the assault with Kimball's brigade in close support. Confederate fire was intense and the assault failed with heavy losses. Lieutenant Colonel Chandler was killed in the attack and Major Smith assumed command of the 88th Illinois. During the Battle of Peachtree Creek on 20 July, the Confederates launched a major assault which first struck Newton's division and was repulsed. The regiment participated in the siege of Atlanta from 22 July to 25 August, the flank movement on 25–30 August, and the Battle of Jonesborough on 31 August – 1 September.

In September 1864, the 88th Illinois moved to Chattanooga, Whiteside, and Bridgeport, Tennessee, where it performed guard duty. In October, the unit moved to Gaylesville, Alabama before returning to Chattanooga. In November, the regiment moved to Pulaski, Tennessee, and skirmished at the Battle of Spring Hill on 29 November and fought at the Battle of Franklin on 30 November. At Franklin, Opdycke led the 1st Brigade, Wagner commanded the 2nd Division, Stanley led the IV Corps, and Major General John Schofield was in overall command. Wagner put two brigades in advanced positions. After Opdycke argued with Wagner, his brigade was placed in reserve behind the main defense line. When it became apparent that the Confederate army was mounting a mass assault, the commander of one of the advanced brigades begged Wagner to order a withdrawal, but was refused. Consequently, the Confederate attackers routed Wagner's two brigades, and by closely following the fleeing soldiers, broke into the main Union defenses.