[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Seafort Saga

s, Seafort is injured in a terrorist attack. A bomb explodes which causes him severe injury, and regretfully kills captain tamarov.

The explosion causes paralysis and Seafort's lower body confining him to a wheelchair. Resenting his immobility, the secretary-general becomes irritable and depressed.

Returning to his home compound outside dc, Seafort reluctantly accepts a cadet aide, Bevin, whom he had met earlier. Using the young cadet as a verbal punching bag for his frustration with the eco-terrorist who have claimed credit for the explosion, the captain is additionally frustrated when Alexi tamaroff's wife brings their two children to stay with him and Arlene at the compound.

During this period of time, his son Philip tyre attempts to reconcile their relationship. It has been strained for years, following Phillips theft of his father's personal property. Philip has grown to manhood and is in a semi-committed relationship with Jared Tenere, who has achieved mental stability thanks to hormone treatments and the parenting of Robbie Boland.

Using a combination of discipline and reward, Seafort is able to help bring Mikhail tamarov out of his shell, assisted by Derek Carr who has come to visit at Seafort's request. Derek and Nick tell stories of Alexi to mikhail, to help him understand his father better.

Philip manages to persuade his father to go along with him on an unscheduled tour. Philip does not tell his father where they are going, but manages to get the father to agree to go. Taking him to various spots on the globe, Philip demonstrates to the Secretary general just how uninhabitable the Earth has gotten. It culminates in a visit to Nick's boyhood home in cardiff. Thanks to pollutants both from the local factory and from europe, his boyhood home is uninhabitable.

This wake up call galvanizes Seafort into altering his political agenda, to help try and cut back on industry to save the world's ecosystems. Unfortunately, this also draws him negative feedback from the Navy who don't want the proposed construction of ships to be slowed down, and the patriarchs who want the Navy to remain powerful so they can enforce their vision of God's will.

Surviving another terrorist attack at his own home, from a mole that has been planted among his security, Seafort finds that he is no longer safe even in his own house. Having earlier agreed to an experimental medical procedure, that can only take place on the moon, Seafort is smuggled out of his compound and into space. 

The procedure is somewhat of a success and he can begin to have feeling in his lower body and move his toes. During the recovery his home compound is bombed and he is presumed dead. Additionally the Navy announces that they have assumed control, and demand that Seafort's political agenda of eco-friendly policies be reversed.

Finding himself with no other options, Seafort declares martial law. Calling the captain of the galactic, he demands his surrender. Captain stanger refuses. But insists that Seafort come to see him so that they can settle things as peaceably as possible.

With the assistance of the midshipman and cadet who accompanied him into space, Mikhail tamarov who refused to be left behind, Arlene and Derek who agreed to be reenlisted as lieutenants, his son Philip and Jared who had come to visit him in hospital, Seafort smuggles his way onto the galactic. Using his authority as secretary-general, he promotes himself admiral and assigns himself command of the galactic. 

Unfortunately his subterfuge is discovered sooner than he anticipate, and his initial attempt to take over of the ship fails. Seafort is ultimately successful in killing Captain stanger, but the casualties include cadet Bevin, and Jared Tenere. 

As captain of the galactic, Seafort fuses his ship away into the outer system, coming in contact with the Melbourne who has been on a pleasure Cruise. Using the Melbourne as a smoke screen, he is able to smuggle himself into Earth's spaceport in an attempt to recapture it and persuade the men that in charge to surrender.

Well this is happening, Jeffrey Thorne and Edgar tolliver have agreed to assist seaport in attempting to recapture the massive laser installation at Lunapolis. Using cadets as shock troopers, they attack the laser emplacements while Seafort is sneaking his way into the space station. 

When the galactic fuses back into Earth orbit in a bluff to keep the lasers from firing on the planet and to hopefully shock the commanding generals into surrendering, the general in charge of the laser emplacements orders them to fire on the galactic instead.

Suffering drastic damage, the galactic is ultimately destroyed. As a result of the destruction, Derek Carr and Arlene Seafort are killed. Watching both his wife and one of his oldest and dearest friends die in front of him scars Seafort's soul.