[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1978 in the United Kingdom

others are wounded in a shooting spree which began in a residential street in West Bromwich and ends at a petrol station some 20 miles away in Nuneaton.
 28 October – Barry Williams, aged 36, is arrested in Derbyshire and charged with the previous day's shootings following a high-speed police chase.

November
 3 November – Dominica gains its independence from the United Kingdom.
 4 November – Many British bakeries impose bread rationing after a baker's strike led to panic buying of bread.
 5 November – Rioters sack the British Embassy in Tehran.
 10 November – Panic buying of bread stops as most bakers go back to work.
 18 November – The British leg of the 1978 Kangaroo tour concludes with Australia winning the Ashes series by defeating Great Britain in the third and deciding Test match in Leeds.
 20 November – Buckingham Palace announces that The Prince Andrew is to join the Royal Navy.
 23 November – Pollyanna's nightclub in Birmingham is forced to lift its ban on black and Chinese revellers, after a one-year investigation by the Commission for Racial Equality concludes that the nightclub's entry policy was racist.
 29 November – Viv Anderson, the 22-year-old Nottingham Forest defender, becomes England's first black international footballer when he appears in 1–0 friendly win over Czechoslovakia at Wembley Stadium – six months after he became the first black player to feature in an English league championship winning team and was also on the winning side in the final of the Football League Cup.
 30 November – An industrial dispute closes down The Times newspaper (until 12 November 1979).

December
 Four men aged between 17 and 50 are charged with the murder of newspaper boy Carl Bridgewater at a farmhouse near Stourbridge in September this year. They are also accused of other armed robberies including a raid on a farmhouse near Halesowen and another at a Tesco supermarket on Birmingham's Castle Vale estate.
 10 December – Peter D. Mitchell wins the Nobel Prize in Chemistry "for his contribution to the understanding of biological energy transfer through the formulation of the chemiosmotic theory".
 14 December – The Labour minority government survives a vote of confidence.
 21–22 December – The BBC is hit by a series of strikes. From Thursday 21 December, BBC One and BBC Two television are taken off air, as the BBC members of the ABS union strike over pay. On 22 December, the ABS union calls its radio members out on strike, which leads to the merging of BBC Radio 1, 2, 3 and 4 into one national radio network, which from 4.00 pm that day provides a management-run schedule of news and music. With the strike called so close to Christmas, the BBC does not want their festive television programming to be interrupted (Bill Cotton, the controller of BBC One, has prepared two Christmas schedules for BBC One, one if there is no strike, and one filled with repeats and films if there is), and so the BBC and ABS go to the government's conciliation service ACAS, and a deal is reached by 10.00 pm on 22 December, with the unions getting a 15% pay rise. BBC One and Two return to normal service by lunchtime on Saturday 23 December, with all BBC radio stations resuming normal programming at breakfast time of the same day.
23 December – The Marxist writer Malcolm Caldwell is shot dead in Cambodia shortly after meeting Pol Pot.

Undated
 Inflation reaches a six-year low of 8.3%, although unemployment is at a postwar high of 1,500,000.
 West midlands motorcycle manufacturer Norton Villiers Triumph is liquidated.
 Concrete Cows first erected in Milton Keynes.

Publications
 J. G. Farrell's novel The Singapore Grip.
 Ken Follett's novel Eye of the Needle.
 Graham Greene's novel The Human Factor.
 Ian McEwan's novel The Cement Garden.
 Iris Murdoch's novel The Sea, the Sea.