[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# T.I. vs. T.I.P.

about maturity, why he's now "too grown to be the life of the party," and how he has no time to argue with bouncers, overzealous fans or pestering playa haters. On May 16, 2007 T.I. stated that he was putting the final touches on his forthcoming personality-splitting project, T.I. vs. T.I.P.

Music

Concept
T.I. vs. T.I.P. is a concept LP on which the rapper uses both sides of himself — the suave, level-minded CEO and the 'hood-friendly former dope boy — to express his thoughts on everything from the Grammy Awards to sideways-talking bustas to making dough. Sometimes the two sides duel, and occasionally you'll catch them on the same track. More often than not, though, each personality gets his own song. "Big Shit Poppin'" showcases the Grammy winner rapping in his grittier T.I.P. persona. Dominated '06 and I'm going right back," he rhymes. T.I.P. also says he's "doing it" for his children, family and friends. On March 1, 2007 T.I. stated that all the albums prior to this one, T.I.P. would work harder to make the album, T.I. would work harder to sell it," he said. On T.I. vs. T.I.P. — a conceptual LP about his life — they battle each other on six tracks. Another third of the project is dedicated solely to T.I. and the remainder goes to T.I.P. "This is my life, this is the struggle I had to go through to bring myself to release another album," said T.I., who lost both his newborn daughter and personal assistant within the last year. "After all the stuff I went through following the success of King, it took a lot to even muster the effort or even care enough about the world outside my circle to even care about doing another album. "All I did was take notes and record it along the way," T.I. reflected.

Release and promotion

Promo singles
"Touchdown" was the first and only official promotional single to be released from T.I. vs. T.I.P.. The single entered the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart at number 9, and it charted at number 96 on the Pop 100 chart. The song was only released as an airplay single in 2007, and not as an official single, it featured Eminem. It received considerable airplay on Monday Night Football during the 2007 NFL season. The song was Produced by Eminem and Jeff Bass, the song features the use of electronic keyboard giving a trumpet-like sound. As well, hi-hats and bass drums are the main rhythmic instruments used in the song.

Singles
"Big Things Poppin' (Do It)" was the first official single to be released from T.I. vs. T.I.P.. The single entered the Billboard Hot 100 at number 9, it charted at number 7 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart, it charted at number 2 on the Hot Rap Tracks chart, it charted at number 20 on the Pop 100 chart, it charted at number 8 on the Hot Digital Songs, it charted at number 34 on the Hot Ringtones chart, and at number 9 on the Rhythmic Top 40 chart. The song was #66 on Rolling Stones list of the 100 Best Songs of 2007. The Recording Industry Association of America certified the single Gold. The single attained respectable international charting. In Canada the single entered the Canadian Singles Chart at number 75, in Japan the single entered the Japanese Singles Chart at number 5, and in New Zealand the single entered the New Zealand Singles Chart at number 8. The Recording Industry Association of New Zealand certified the single Gold on August 23, 2009, selling over 7,500 copies. The song was written by T.I. and produced by Mannie Fresh. The single was released on May 29. The clean version of the song is called "Big Things Poppin' (Do It)". The single samples a guitar riff from the song, "Top Gun Anthem," the theme of the film Top Gun. "Big Things Poppin' (Do It)" is used with alternative lyrics as the theme song to an ESPN SportsCenter special known as the "Who's Now?" series, which was aired throughout the summer of 2007. This song is featured in the multiplayer online casual rhythm game DANCE! Online. The song is used in the Wayans Brothers 2009 parody film Dance Flick.

"You Know What It Is" was the second official single from the album. The single entered the Billboard Hot 100 at number 34, it charted at number 11 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart, it charted at number 5 on the Hot Rap Tracks chart, it charted at number 62 on the Pop 100 chart, it charted at number 48 on the Hot Digital Songs, and at number 9 on the Rhythmic Top 40 chart. In Canada the single entered the Canadian Singles Chart at number 61. The song was written by T.I. and produced by Wyclef Jean. The song was featured in the HBO series Entourage (Season 4, Episode 4) as the guys are in a club, it can be heard in the background.