[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Repairer of Reputations

ief" required of fiction). He makes this clear at a point in the story when Hildred dons his diadem and describes it as being made of "heavy beaten gold" only to have Louis call it a "brass crown" shortly afterwards; likewise, what Hildred calls a "steel safe" is seen by Louis to be a "biscuit box".

Characters
 Hildred Castaigne: The protagonist and narrator of the story, Hildred's character is much changed after sustaining a head injury and reading The King in Yellow during his convalescence. Hildred spends much of his time poring over old books; he never mentions work and appears to be independently wealthy. Hildred is a classic example of an unreliable narrator, as he often comments that other people appear to be humouring him or treating things he regards as very important as inconsequential or non-existent.
 Louis Castaigne: Hildred's cousin, a military officer. Louis does not share his cousin's intellectualism or ambition, and is mainly focused on his love for Hawberk's daughter, Constance. Louis is horrified to find that Hildred has been reading The King in Yellow, but appears to make an effort to humour Hildred's eccentricities and strange behaviour.
 Hawberk: An armourer, Hawberk fashions and repairs antique bits of armour in a little shop below Mr. Wilde's. Castaigne and Mr. Wilde both believe that Hawberk is secretly the exiled Marquis of Avonshire (a fictional shire in England). Hawberk is noticeably shaken when Castaigne obliquely implies this in conversation. Hawberk's name likely comes from the word "hauberk", meaning a shirt of mail.
 Constance Hawberk: Hawberk's daughter, a beautiful girl engaged to Louis Castaigne.
 Mr. Wilde: A bizarre and eccentric character, Mr. Wilde lives in a dingy office above Hawberk's shop, where his door advertises him as a "Repairer of Reputations". Mr. Wilde is deformed (possibly microcephalic) and mutilated, having lost his ears and several fingers. He keeps a vicious feral cat which he habitually provokes into attacking him. Although his sanity is questionable, the narrator treats Wilde as a genius who is a living library of valuable information, and believes he holds powerful men under his sway.

Critical reception
David G. Hartwell described "The Repairer of Reputations" as "an extraordinary achievement" and "a horrific tale that is also a sophisticated, avant-garde work of science fiction".

Notes

External links

 

 
 Online copy of The King in Yellow

1895 short stories
American short stories
Fantasy short stories
Fiction set in 1920
Short stories set in New York City
Fiction with unreliable narrators