[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Foreign relations of the Axis powers

(Panzer III-IVs, Focke-Wulf Fw 190As, etc.).  The Turks also purchased weapons from the Allies (Morane-Saulnier M.S.406s, Republic P-47 Thunderbolts).

Turkey, however did declare war on Germany at the very end of the conflict as a means of being allowed to join the postwar United Nations.

Ukraine 

During World War II, some elements of the Ukrainian nationalist underground fought both the German and Soviet forces, forming the Ukrainian Insurgent Army in 1942, while other Ukrainians initially collaborated with the Nazis, having been ignored by all other powers. In 1941 the German invaders and their Axis allies initially advanced against desperate but unsuccessful efforts of the Red Army.

Initially, the Germans were received as liberators by many Ukrainians, especially in Western Ukraine which had only been occupied by the Soviet forces in 1939.  However, German rule in the occupied territories eventually aided the Soviet cause. Nazi officials of conquered Soviet territories made little attempt to exploit the population of Ukrainian territories' dissatisfaction with Soviet political and economic policies. Instead, the Germans preserved the collective-farm system, systematically carried out genocidal policies against Jews, deported others (mainly Ukrainians and Poles) to work in Germany, and began a systematic depopulation of Ukraine to prepare it for German colonisation.

United Kingdom
In the UK, during the late 1920s and 1930s, there were some individuals and political groups that sympathised with fascism. They included Rotha Lintorn-Orman (British Fascists), Arnold Leese (Imperial Fascist League), Oswald Mosley (British Union of Fascists), William Joyce and John Beckett (National Socialist League), among others.

In 1938 a few western countries, including the UK signed the Munich Agreement with Nazi Germany. In this agreement Nazi Germany received a strategically important part from Czechoslovakia. This was criticised by many, including the USSR. This territory was important for Germany and it allowed Germany to be encircled by the Western Powers.

In the Far East in the same period certain individuals such as Reginald Johnston (Puyi's tutor), Brigade General F.H. Burnell-Nugent (chief of the British embassy guards in Tianjin), among others supported the Japanese plans related to the Mukden Incident, the creation of the puppet state of Manchukuo and the open Japanese intervention in Northeast China.

During the war some British POWs served in "British Free Corps" (Legion Of Saint George) organised in January 1943, conceived by John Amery, son of Leopold Stennett Amery. Heinrich Himmler was interested in the concept and ordered more volunteers to be recruited, but only approximately 30 soldiers volunteered for this unit (including 3 Canadian, 3 Australians, 3 South Africans and 1 New Zealander). The unit never saw any action, but a few men from this unit are believed to have fought in the Battle of Berlin.

Vatican City
The Roman Question was solved on February 11, 1929, between the Holy See and the Kingdom of Italy. The treaty was signed by Benito Mussolini and Pietro Cardinal Gasparri in behalf of King Victor Emmanuel III and Pope Pius XI (1922–1939), respectively.  The Lateran Treaty and the Concordat established the independent State of the Vatican City and granted Catholicism a special status in Italy.

The Holy See was one of few states that established diplomatic relations with the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo.

Yugoslavia
Chetniks of Draža Mihajlović were recognised as a member of the Allies, but instead of fighting against Germans and Italians, they collaborated with them in a struggle against Yugoslavian partisans.

Asia

Afghanistan
In Afghanistan, Mohammed Zahir Shah under the tutelage of his uncles and one of his cousins invited and received industrial support from Germany. By 1935, German engineers and businessmen had developed factories and hydroelectric projects within Afghanistan. Minor support from Japan and Italy was also expected.

Although Afghanistan declared their neutrality on August 17, 1940, the British and Soviets were still alarmed by the large number of German non-diplomatic personnel within the country. In October, both British and Soviet governments ordered that Afghanistan remove all Axis non-diplomatic personnel from the country.  The Shah and his tutors regarded the demands as insulting and illegitimate, but they had taken note of the swift invasion of Iran conducted in August. Not wanting the same thing to happen to their country, they accepted the demands and began practicing absolute neutrality.

China

China enjoyed cordial relations with Germany after World War I, because Germany lost its colonial holdings in China with its defeat.  China demanded German industrial expertise, while Germany saw China as a large market.