[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Separation of isotopes by laser excitation

GLE, writing-off their investment.

In 2016, the United States Department of Energy agreed to sell about 300,000 tonnes of depleted uranium hexafluoride to GLE for re-enrichment (from 0.35 to 0.7 % 235U) using the SILEX process over 40 years at a proposed Paducah, Kentucky Laser Enrichment Facility.

In 2018, Silex Systems abandoned its plans for GLE, intending to repatriate the SILEX technology to Australia.

In 2021, Silex Systems took majority ownership (51%) of GLE, with Cameco (49%) as minority owner.  The path to market for the venture is underpinned by an agreement between GLE and the US Department of Energy under which DOE uranium tailings will be made available for the proposed Paducah Laser Enrichment project. Silex's technology will be used to produce natural grade uranium from the tailings. GLE intends now (from 2022) to focus on re-enrichment in Paducah. It is on the site, where the last diffusion plant for uranium enrichment worked until 2013. It left behind several hundred thousand tons of depleted UF6.

Process

The shortest-wavelength fundamental vibration of gaseous UF6 is around 16 µm. At room temperature its width (around 20 cm−1) is much larger than the isotopic shift (0.6 cm−1). The broadening is due to thermally populated excited vibrational and rotational states. To allow for selective excitation, the UF6, diluted about 100 fold by a carrier gas (which can be argon or nitrogen), is cooled to about 80 K by adiabatic expansion through a nozzle into vacuum. Initially there are still collisions (which are necessary for cooling). But after traveling about 10 nozzle diameters, due to the expansion, they are so rare that condensation can no longer take place. Avoiding collisions is also necessary to suppress any collisional transfer of energy between the isotopes. Such a molecular beam method is used in all cases, where spectral narrowing is needed for selective excitation.

With SILEX, the pressure and nozzle diameter are chosen large enough to provide a sufficient number of collisions immediately after the nozzle, to allow for formation of clusters (UF6•G) with the carrier gas G. (UF6•UF6 clusters are practically not formed due to the much lower density of UF6 compared to G.) If 235UF6 is selectively  excited at 628.3 cm−1, then this molecule does not aggregate with G, whereas the nonexcited heavier 238UF6 does. Due to their higher thermal velocity,  the free molecules leave the axis of the molecular beam faster than the clusters. The latter are therefore enriched in the part transmitted by a skimmer nozzle downstream, whereas the non-transmitted fraction is enriched in the 235UF6. The enrichment factor is the better, the larger the transmitted fraction (i.e. the smaller the depletion and the smaller the cut). That is, SILEX uses a separation nozzle, modified by a laser and profiting from selective repression of cluster formation ("condensation").

For that, the CO2 laser needs at least 20 MW. With a Raman shift of 354.3 cm−1 and a CO2 laser wavenumber of 982.1 cm−1 (10R30 line), one receives 627.8 cm−1. This is only close to the Q-branch of 235UF6 (center at 628.3 cm−1, width 0.01 cm−1 ) and is even closer to the Q-branch of 238UF6. GLE does not inform, how they do the necessary fine tuning. High-pressure CO2 lasers would cause additional problems with the pulse repetition rate. With common (atmospheric-pressure) CO2 lasers and with the stimulated Raman shifter the state of technology is 2–4 kHz. In order not to leave large parts of the molecular beam unirradiated, one needs at least 20 kHz (according to Urenco several tens of kHz), unless pulsed nozzles are used. The nozzles themselves must have slit form, in order to provide enough absorption length.

GLE informs that they reach separation factors of 2–20, the higher values probably coupled to a poorer depletion (which is not given). This is sufficient for enrichment from natural uranium (0,72 % 235U) to reactor grade (> 3% 235U). The pioneer works of the van den Bergh group obtained only much smaller enrichments with SF6.

Using other lasers with suitable wavelengths, SILEX can also be used for the isotopic enrichment of other elements such as chlorine, molybdenum,  carbon and silicon.

Proliferation concerns 
Compared to current enrichment technologies, SILEX obtains a higher enrichment. Hence fewer stages are necessary to reach bomb grade uranium (> 90% 235U). According to GLE, each stage requires as little as 25% of the space of the conventional methods. Hence it would facilitate to rogue governments to hide a production facility for bomb uranium. The attractiveness is even enhanced by the claims of GLE that a SILEX plant is faster and cheaper to build, and consumes considerably less energy. Scientists therefore expressed their concerns repeatedly that SILEX could create an easy path towards a nuclear weapon (see e.g.). The model calculations of Ryan Snyder substantiate these warnings.

Security classification