[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Adam Murray

emier Division.

Style of play
Described in the Worcester News as a creative midfielder with energy and tenacity in September 2003, Murray earned an England U20 cap the previous year. His vision and range of passing was acknowledged to be largely unparalleled in non-League football.

Coaching career

Mansfield Town
Murray became caretaker manager of Mansfield Town after Paul Cox left the club 19th in the League Two table on 21 November 2014. He rejected advice to take an older mentor as his assistant and instead retained existing coaches Richard Cooper and Micky Moore, who he said were "as hungry as I am for coaching". Murray's first game as manager, a day later at Field Mill, was a 1–0 victory over Plymouth Argyle. After a spell as caretaker manager, Murray was given the job on a permanent basis on 5 December, becoming the youngest manager in the top four divisions of English football. He made four free transfer signings in the January transfer window: defenders Junior Brown, Michael Raynes and Matty Blair, and midfielder Ricky Ravenhill. He sold Rob Taylor to Tranmere Rovers after the versatile player sought a move closer to his home. He also made use of the loan market, bringing in Billy Kee, Callum Elder, Lenny Pidgeley, Jeffrey Monakana, Adam Smith and Terry Hawkridge. Murray signed a new two-year contract in May. Mansfield ended the 2014–15 season in 21st place, seven points above relegated Cheltenham Town, and Murray released seven players in the summer, saying that "I feel the whole club needs a fresh start". Ollie Palmer was also sold to Leyton Orient.

The club underwent a rebuild of the squad for the 2015–16 season, with 15 new players arriving at the club. These free transfer signings included: goalkeepers Brian Jensen and Scott Shearer; defenders Mal Benning, Lee Collins, Nicky Hunt and Krystian Pearce; midfielders Adam Chapman and Mitch Rose; and forwards Chris Beardsley, Matt Green, Nathan Thomas, Craig Westcarr and Adi Yussuf. A positive start saw the team win six and draw four of their opening 12 games to sit fourth in the table in October. However their promotion challenge fell away and Mansfield ended the season mid-table in 12th place. Murray released three players in the summer.

Murray strengthened the team for the 2016–17 season, paying an undisclosed fee for Bury striker Danny Rose. He also made free transfer signings of defenders Rhys Bennett and George Taft; midfielder Kevan Hurst; and forwards CJ Hamilton, Ashley Hemmings, Patrick Hoban and Darius Henderson. Kyle Howkins and Alex Iacovitti also came in on loan. He was nominated for the EFL League Two Manager of the Month award after his team picked up ten points from their opening five fixtures in August. Mansfield fell away after this good start however and Murray was booed by supporters, though denied reports that he was considering quitting the club on 3 November, stating "I'm not going anywhere for a long while." Murray resigned 11 days later, after a 4–0 defeat at Portsmouth left Mansfield 18th in the table.

Boston United
On 9 December 2016, Murray was appointed as manager of Boston United, who were 15th in the National League North table. Murray said that "the possibility of it being more of a project than a job, that’s what pulled me to it". Boston went on to finish the 2016–17 season in 15th place and Murray released four players in the summer. In April 2017 he told the media that he was planning to move the club's training base. He said that there was an "unbelievable" number of players eager to join the club, with summer signings including goalkeeper George Willis; defenders Bradley Beatson, James Clifton, Jack Cowgill, Taron Hare and Jordan Keane; midfielder Jamie McGuire; and forwards Ashley Hemmings, Pearson Mwanyongo, Kabongo Tshimanga and Tyrell Waite. He compared his team to a baby deer after a difficult start to the new season, stating that "they’re a little bit wobbly when they’re born", whilst also saying that "[recruitment has] not been good enough and we take ultimate responsibility for that". On 28 October 2017, Murray left his position as manager of Boston United after a run of one win in 11 games left the club in the bottom two. Upon departing York Street, he said that "they need a shot of confidence and a centre forward, everything else is in place"; the "Pilgrims" went on to finish the 2017–18 season in ninth place. He later admitted it had been a mistake to take the Boston job.