[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hamid Algabid

the 2004 parliamentary election. He was subsequently appointed as President of the High Council of Territorial Collectivities (HCCT), a body responsible for local government in Niger. In December 2006, he was awarded a medal by the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (ISESCO).

During the 2009 constitutional crisis caused by Tandja's decision to seek a referendum on a new constitution that would enable him to remain in power, the RDP-Jama'a announced on 12 May 2009 that it would support the new constitution, which would establish a presidential system; according to Algabid, a presidential system was "best suited to promote development". However, the RDP's support was conditional: it demanded the removal of the 1999 constitution's amnesty for those involved in Maïnassara's assassination, and it demanded an investigation into the 1999 coup. On June 28, 2009, the RDP changed its position, announcing its unconditional support for the referendum despite the continued inclusion of the constitutional amnesty. The RDP was given two posts in the government, and the mandate of the HCCT, chaired by Algabid, was extended by six months. Some members of the party disapproved of the decision to support the referendum, however, and two former ministers, Abdoulrahamane Seydou and Moussa Oumarou, resigned from the RDP as a result.

The RDP participated in the October 2009 parliamentary election, but the opposition, angered by Tandja's efforts to remain in power, boycotted it. ECOWAS, which wanted the election delayed in hopes of resolving the political crisis, suspended Niger from its ranks immediately after the election was held. Algabid was included in the 22-member Nigerien delegation that traveled to Abuja for talks with ECOWAS beginning on 9 November 2009. Tandja was ousted in a February 2010 military coup; all state institutions were promptly dissolved, thereby removing Algabid from his post as President of the HCCT. Later, after Mahamadou Issoufou was elected as President, Algabid was appointed as an Ambassador-at-Large on 19 October 2011.

References

1941 births
Living people
Nigerien Muslims
Members of the National Assembly (Niger)
Prime Ministers of Niger
Rally for Democracy and Progress (Niger) politicians
People from Zinder Region
Université Félix Houphouët-Boigny alumni
Tuareg people
Organisation of Islamic Cooperation officials
20th-century Nigerien politicians
21st-century Nigerien politicians