[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Politics in South India

4 and in the Rajya Sabha on 18 February 2014, with support from the BJP. On 4 March 2014 the Government of India declared that 2 June would be Telangana Formation Day.
. BJP now has a significant role in Telangana politics . They won 4 Loksabha seats in the 2019 Indian General Elections.

Karnataka 

The Congress has been far more successful in Karnataka than it has been in national politics. National political parties such as the BJP have experienced comparatively more success in Karnataka than they have in other states of South India. Karnataka's political environment is dominated by two caste groups — the southern Karnataka dominated by Vokkaligas and the north and central Karnataka dominated by Lingayats but Dalits are major voters and the deciding factor of the ruling party in Karnataka . Ramakrishna Hegde played an integral part in the ascent of the Janata Dal into the national foray in the late 1980s. However, it was his political rival H.D. Deve Gowda, then the Chief Minister of Karnataka, who later went on to become the Prime Minister of India. Caste has figured prominently in Karnataka politics. Anti-Hindi and anti-Tamil movements were prominent in Karnataka politics in the 1960s and 1970s. Language activism is high in the state, with organisations like the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike and the Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha often launching agitations for protecting the interests of Kannada and Kannadigas. The Kaveri water dispute with Tamil Nadu and the Belgaum border dispute with Maharashtra both hold an important place in the politics of the state. In the 2018 state assembly elections Yedyurappa led BJP, winning 104 seats out of 224, followed by INC 78, JD(S)37; but on the day of results none of the party reached the magic number 113 so INC offered unconditional support to JDS form a government on basis of ideology. But after a 14 month stint in office  H.D Kumaraswamy's government fell on July 23, 2019 and as a result both congress and JD(S) parted ways after 14 months. BJP is the largest Political party & the ruling party in the state now.

Kerala 

Politics in Kerala comprises two major political alliances: the United Democratic Front (UDF — led by the Indian National Congress), the Left Democratic Front (LDF — led by the Communist Party of India (Marxist)) alternating to power. Kerala has a significant Muslim and Christian population which traditionally form the base of UDF, whereas Ezhavas, a backward class community form the core of LDF. Former president K R Narayanan, and first Leader of opposition in the Lok Sabha A K Gopalan of CPM, were both from Kerala. Kerala created history by democratically electing communists to power in 1957, being the first in the world to do so.

Tamil Nadu 

Indian National Congress dominated the political scene in the initial years post independence with leaders like C. Rajagopalachari and K. Kamaraj. The political influence shifted towards Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in the late 1960s. The shift in political power in Tamil Nadu was due to the rise of Dravidan Nationalism spearheaded by leaders such as Periyar Ramasami and C. N. Annadurai, who extolled the achievements of Tamilians in ways that the common man could relate to. The main facets of state politics in Tamil Nadu included language — the distinction between Tamil and non-Tamil speakers was an important tool used by the DMK in the 1960s and caste — such as the Self-respect Movement. The imposition of Hindi on non-Hindi speaking areas of India has often been a contentious issue in Tamil Nadu. In January–February 1965, large scale Anti-Hindi agitations, a cause championed by the DMK, occurred in Tamil Nadu. In 1972, a split in the DMK resulted in the formation of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam led by MG Ramachandran. Since then, the two major Dravidian parties DMK headed by Karunanidhi and ADMK led by Jayalailtha alternate to power.

Former Presidents R Venkataraman and APJ Abdul Kalam were from the state.

See also 
 List of political parties in India
 Politics of India
 Dravida Nadu

Notes 

South India
Politics of India