[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Men's health

ared to 1.72 million women.  Men are more likely than women to engage in over 30 risky behaviours associated with increased morbidity, injury, and mortality. Additionally, despite a disproportionately lower rate of suicide attempts than women, men have significantly higher rates of death by suicide.

Social determinants of men's health involve factors such as greater levels of occupational exposure to physical and chemical hazards than women. Historically, men had higher work-related stress, which negatively impacted their life expectancy by increasing the risk of hypertension, heart attack, and stroke. However, as women's role in the workplace continues to be established, these risks are no longer specific to just men.

Mental health

Stress 
Although most stress symptoms are similar in men and women, stress can be experienced differently by men. The American Psychological Association says that men are not as likely to report emotional and physical symptoms of stress compared to women. They say men are more likely to withdraw socially when stressed and are more likely to report doing nothing to manage their stress. Men are more likely than women to cite that work is a source of stress; women are more likely to report that money and the economy are a source of stress.

Mental stress in men is associated with various complications which can affect men's health: high blood pressure and subsequent cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, cardiovascular disease, erectile dysfunction (impotence) and possibly reduced fertility (due to reduced libido and frequency of intercourse).

Fathers experience stress during the time shortly before and after the time of birth (perinatal period). Stress levels tend to increase from the prenatal period up until the time of birth, and then decrease from the time of birth to the later postnatal period. Factors which contribute to stress in fathers include negative feelings about the pregnancy, role restrictions related to becoming a father, fear of childbirth, and feelings of incompetence related to infant care. This stress has a negative impact on fathers. Higher levels of stress in fathers are associated with mental health issues such as anxiety, depression, psychological distress, and fatigue.

Substance use disorders 
Substance use disorder and alcohol use disorder can be defined as a pattern of harmful use of substance for mood-altering purposes. Alcohol is one of the most commonly substances used in excess, and men are up to twice as likely to develop alcohol use disorder than women. Gender differences in alcohol consumption remain universal, although the sizes of gender differences vary. More drinking and heaving, binge drinking occurs in men, whereas more long-term abstention occurs in women. Moreover, men are more likely to abuse substances such as drugs, with a lifetime prevalence of 11.5% in men compared to 6.4% in women, in the United States. Additionally, males are more likely to be substance addicts and abuse substances due to peer pressure compared to females.

Risks
Substance and alcohol use disorders are associated with various mental health issues in men and women. Mental health problems are not only a result from drinking excess alcohol; they can also cause people to drink too much. A major reason for consuming alcohol is to change mood or mental state. Alcohol can temporarily alleviate feelings of anxiety and depression, and some people use it as a form of self-medication in an attempt to counteract these negative feelings. However, alcohol consumption can worsen existing mental health problems. Evidence shows that people who consume high amounts of alcohol or use illicit substances are vulnerable to an increased risk of developing mental health problems. Men with mental health disorders, like post-traumatic stress disorder, are twice as likely as women to develop a substance use disorder.

Treatment

There have been identified gender differences in seeking treatment for mental health and substance abuse disorders between men and women. Women are more likely to seek help from and disclose mental health problems to their primary care physicians, whereas men are more likely to seek specialist and inpatient care. Men are more likely than women to disclose problems with alcohol use to their health care provider. In the United States, there are more men than women in treatment for substance use disorders. Both men and women receive better mental health outcomes with early treatment interventions.

Suicide