[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sexual obsessions

important and cherished becomes twisted into its nightmarish opposite. People with sexual obsessions are particularly likely to have co-occurring aggressive and religious obsessions, clinical depression, and higher rates of impulse control disorders, though the latter is less common in OCD patients.

Self-doubt
The obsessions often reflect a vulnerable self-theme where the person doubts their real or actual self. Doubt and uncertainty linger with sexual obsessions.  They provide several contradictions which include: uncertainty as to whether you would act on these or whether you have already acted upon them, and uncertainty as to whether you are liking the thoughts (even though you know you do not) needless to say these cause an increase in anxiety, doubt, and uncertainty.

Another form of OCD that can take hold of a person involves obsessive doubts, preoccupations, checking, and reassurance seeking behaviors focusing on intimate relationships (ROCD). As with sexual obsessions, and at times in response to them, a person may feel the need to end a perfectly good relationship based on their inability to feel how they want to. A person may continuously doubt whether they love their partner, whether their relationship is the "right" relationship or whether their partner "really" loves them. Another form of ROCD includes preoccupation, checking, and reassurance seeking behaviors relating to the partner's perceived flaws.  Instead of finding good in their partner, they are constantly focused on their shortcomings.

Avoidance
In the same way that those who have OCD fears of contamination avoid anything that will "contaminate" them (i.e., doorknobs, puddles, shaking hands), those who are suffering from such sexual obsessions may feel an overpowering need to avoid all contact with anything that can cause them to have anxiety, or "spike". Such avoidance may include:
Not looking at (for instance) another member of the same sex in the face,
Avoiding locker rooms, showers, and beaches, etc.  It can also mean avoiding sexual situations with members of a different sex, for fear of what a particular circumstance (not being aroused enough, intrusive thoughts, etc.) might mean. 
Avoiding hugging same sex children, including their own, a compulsion which may cause severe damage to the well-being of the child. 
Avoiding associating with gay or straight friends, or people with children. The social isolation feeds the anxiety, and therefore the OCD.

Sexual ideation
It cannot be overemphasized that the sexual obsessions in OCD are the opposite of the usual sexual daydream or fantasy. The thoughts are not really part of the person's identity, but they are the sort of thoughts or impulses the person with OCD fears that they may have. The sexual ideation in OCD is unpleasant and distressing for the person with OCD. The individual with OCD does not want the thought to become real. The idea of acting out the obsession fills the OCD victim with dread. The sexual ideation in such situations is termed ego-dystonic or ego-alien, meaning that the behavior and/or attitudes are seen by the individual as inconsistent with his or her fundamental beliefs and personality. Therefore, OCD can decrease libido.

The OCD sufferer may have a constant focus on not becoming aroused or checking that they do not become aroused, and this may lead to "groinal response". Many OCD sufferers take this groinal response as actual arousal, when in reality it is not. OCD sexual obsessions often result in guilt, shame, depression and may interfere with social functioning or work. Approximately 40% of sufferers (number could be higher due to the embarrassment associated) also report some accompanying physiological arousal. Reactions can include increased heart rate, a feeling of being turned on, and even erections, increased lubrication (in women), and orgasm. This response typically generates more confusion and uncertainty. However, this is a conditioned physiological response in the primitive thalamus of a brain which does not identify the thought as sex with a particular person, but just sex. This is generally not indicative of one's own personal desires.