[Source: Gutenberg#2814 | Part 36]
# Utopia — Thomas More

straight before them. The
gentleman began to chat with her about Hallow Eve and the rainy
weather. He supposed the bag was full of good things for the little
ones and said it was only right that the youngsters should enjoy
themselves while they were young. Maria agreed with him and favoured
him with demure nods and hems. He was very nice with her, and when she
was getting out at the Canal Bridge she thanked him and bowed, and he
bowed to her and raised his hat and smiled agreeably, and while she was
going up along the terrace, bending her tiny head under the rain, she
thought how easy it was to know a gentleman even when he has a drop
taken.

Everybody said: _“O, here’s Maria!”_ when she came to Joe’s house. Joe
was there, having come home from business, and all the children had
their Sunday dresses on. There were two big girls in from next door and
games were going on. Maria gave the bag of cakes to the eldest boy,
Alphy, to divide and Mrs Donnelly said it was too good of her to bring
such a big bag of cakes and made all the children say:

“Thanks, Maria.”

But Maria said she had brought something special for papa and mamma,
something they would be sure to like, and she began to look for her
plumcake. She tried in Downes’s bag and then in the pockets of her
waterproof and then on the hallstand but nowhere could she find it.
Then she asked all the children had any of them eaten it—by mistake, of
course—but the children all said no and looked as if they did not like
to eat cakes if they were to be accused of stealing. Everybody had a
solution for the mystery and Mrs Donnelly said it was plain that Maria
had left it behind her in the tram. Maria, remembering how confused the
gentleman with the greyish moustache had made her, coloured with shame
and vexation and disappointment. At the thought of the failure of her
little surprise and of the two and fourpence she had thrown away for
nothing she nearly cried outright.

But Joe said it didn’t matter and made her sit down by the fire. He was
very nice with her. He told her all that went on in his office,
repeating for her a smart answer which he had made to the manager.
Maria did not understand why Joe laughed so much over the answer he had
made but she said that the manager must have been a very overbearing
person to deal with. Joe said he wasn’t so bad when you knew how to
take him, that he was a decent sort so long as you didn’t rub him the
wrong way. Mrs Donnelly played the piano for the children and they
danced and sang. Then the two next-door girls handed round the nuts.
Nobody could find the nutcrackers and Joe was nearly getting cross over
it and asked how did they expect Maria to crack nuts without a
nutcracker. But Maria said she didn’t like nuts and that they weren’t
to bother about her. Then Joe asked would she take a bottle of stout
and Mrs Donnelly said there was port wine too in the house if she would
prefer that. Maria said she would rather they didn’t ask her to take
anything: but Joe insisted.

So Maria let him have his way and they sat by the fire talking over old
times and Maria thought she would put in a good word for Alphy. But Joe
cried that God might strike him stone dead if ever he spoke a word to
his brother again and Maria said she was sorry she had mentioned the
matter. Mrs Donnelly told her husband it was a great shame for him to
speak that way of his own flesh and blood but Joe said that Alphy was
no brother of his and there was nearly being a row on the head of it.
But Joe said he would not lose his temper on account of the night it
was and asked his wife to open some more stout. The two next-door girls
had arranged some Hallow Eve games and soon everything was merry again.
Maria was delighted to see the children so merry and Joe and his wife
in such good spirits. The next-door girls put some saucers on the table
and then led the children up to the table, blindfold. One got the
prayer-book and the other three got the water; and when one of the
next-door girls got the ring Mrs Donnelly shook her finger at the
blushing girl as much as to say: _O, I know all about it!_ They
insisted then on blindfolding Maria and leading her up to the table to
see what she would get; and, while they were putting on the bandage,
Maria laughed and laughed again till the tip of her nose nearly met the
tip of her chin.

They led her up to the table amid laughing and joking and she put her
hand out in the air as she was told to do. She moved her hand about
here and there in the air and descended on one of the saucers. She felt
a soft wet substance with her fingers and was surprised that nobody
spoke or took off her bandage. There was a pause for a few seconds; and
then a great deal of scuffling and whispering. Somebody said something
about the garden, and at last Mrs Donnelly said something very cross to
one of the next-door girls and told her to throw it out at once: that
was