[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hebrew Catholics

Hebrew Catholics (in modern Israeli  Ivrím Katolím) are a movement of Jews who have converted to Catholicism, and Catholics of non-Jewish origin, who choose to keep Mosaic traditions in light of Catholic doctrine. The phrase was coined by Father Elias Friedman (1987), who was himself a converted Jew. In the Holy Land, they are gathered in the Saint James Vicariate For Hebrew Speaking Catholics in Israel

As of 2013, there were approximately 500 Hebrew Catholics.

Beliefs

Besides the other religious segments in Israel from most of the Eastern Orthodox Christian groups of Hebrew Catholics, these converted Jews subscribe to the theological doctrines and dogma of the Roman Catholic faith and are in full communion with the Pope. Many of them are culturally closely affiliated with Eastern Catholicism and Greek Orthodox Christianity. Their main point of differentiation as Hebrew Catholics lies not in the dogmatic beliefs of the Church they belong to, but rather in their own personal liturgical practices. For example, they may celebrate Hanukkah, and their liturgical calendar might differ from the liturgical calendar used by Latin Catholics in their retention of certain Jewish holidays. Hebrew Catholics as cultural Jews may religiously celebrate Passover, Rosh Hashana, Shavuot, etc. and even wear traditional ritual wear like kippot, tallitot, tefillin, use mezuzot and keep many mitzvot (commandments) in the Torah as a sign of their heritage, like Orthodox Jews do. Where these Jewish holidays and practices do not conflict with Catholic doctrine, they are kept for ethnic reasons, much as Irish Americans might celebrate Saint Patrick's Day as a major feast day regardless of the diocese they reside in, out of a sense of Hibernophilia as Irish Catholics. Saint Paul the Apostle is mentioned in passing in The Acts of the Apostles to have observed the Jewish religious holidays and said it is good as Christians to keep the Mosaic Law as one wishes in the faith (; ; ; and in ). Jesus Christ is also recorded to have observed the Jewish religious holidays during His Earthly ministry (; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; and ).

History
The main associations of the movement are the Association of Hebrew Catholics (AHC), Remnant Of Israel (ROI) which was founded in 1976 by Father Arthur Klyber, and Miriam Bat Tzion. The AHC and the ROI are English-speaking organizations, and Miriam Bat Tzion is a French-speaking one. There is also a group of Spanish-speaking Hebrew Catholics in Venezuela as well as other places.

According to David Moss, the current president of the AHC, it was estimated to have around 10,000 members in 2000. The countries with the largest membership are the USA and Israel, but members are also found in Canada, France, Italy, Australia, Spain, England, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, Belgium, New Zealand, and Germany.

Hebrew Catholics should not be confused with Protestant Christians of Jewish origin that call themselves Messianic Jews, who are members of a variety of denominations, ranging from Anglican e.g. Christ Church, Jerusalem to independent Jewish Christian ones, many of which are Sabbatarian Protestant, and like some Hebrew Catholics, some of their members also celebrate Jewish holy days and emphasize Jewish elements within Christianity. Hebrew Catholics are in full communion with the Bishop of Rome and are not an independent movement, and they may be either liberal or traditionalist. While some form of corporate ecclesial and ritual identity had been raised by some Hebrew Catholics prior to 2009, Pope Benedict XVI's Apostolic Constitution Anglicanorum Coetibus prompted suggestions that personal ordinariates could also be appropriate for other groups, such as Hebrew or Jewish Catholics. This would allow for the preservation of Jewish identity within the Catholic Church and the restoration of the corporate life of the Jewish church in particular.

Some halachic points of view

According to Bloomer in 2008, "There is a broad range of Jewish Catholics. From those who observe nothing much of the Jewish ways up to those who observe the same as Orthodox Jews. There are many different opinions but they all try to accept each other, whatever their level of observance." 

Furthermore, David Neuhaus, patriarchal vicar for Hebrew-speaking Catholics in Jerusalem and himself a Jew by birth, declared in 2008 that "Dietary laws are not obligatory for those [Jews] who live in Christ. I would only understand dietary laws being observed by Jewish Hebrew Catholics if they had always practised these laws before becoming Catholic. It certainly does no harm. But adopting the laws as Catholics (or as secular Jews who have become Catholic) does not make much sense as we have the fullness of the promise in Jesus."