[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Friedrich Kellner

f the diary was published in January 2018 by Cambridge University Press. Translated and edited by Robert Scott Kellner, it is a single volume hardback of 520 pages with 53 illustrations and photographs. The title is "My Opposition: The Diary of Friedrich Kellner -- A German against the Third Reich."

Reception of the diary
The diary's first public appearance was at the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum, where it was on display to commemorate the 60th anniversary of VE Day, the end of the war in Europe.  It has since been exhibited in other museums in the United States and in Germany.  In October 2007, an exhibit of diary facsimiles was at The Great Synagogue of Stockholm, in Stockholm, Sweden.  In 2010, the original diary was displayed in an extensive exhibit at Friedrich Ebert Stiftung in Berlin and Bonn, Germany. This was followed by a seven-month exhibit in the U.S., May-December 2010 at Dwight Eisenhower Presidential Library and Museum in Abilene, Kansas, as part of the exhibit "Eisenhower and the Righteous Cause:  The Liberation of Europe." In June 2018, the diary was exhibited at Yad Vashem, Jerusalem, Israel, in the International School for Holocaust Studies during the 10th International Conference on Holocaust Education.  A permanent Kellner exhibit is at the Fridericianum museum in Laubach, Germany. Coincidentally, this museum is located on the same street as the courthouse where Kellner wrote the diary.

In Giessen, where Kellner worked as district auditor from 1948 to 1950, the Holocaust Literature Research Unit of the Justus Liebig University of Giessen has established the Kellner Project. The director of the group, Dr. Sascha Feuchert, considers Kellner's work one of the most extensive diaries of the Nazi period.

A number of major universities in the United States, such as Purdue, Columbia, and Stanford, have offered to make the diary part of their libraries.  The directors of the Yad Vashem Holocaust Museum in Jerusalem and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C., have also requested the diary for their archives.
 
In 2007, CCI Entertainment, a Canadian film company, produced a documentary film entitled My Opposition: The Diaries of Friedrich Kellner, which interweaves the stories of Kellner and his American grandson.  The documentary had its American premiere at the George Bush Presidential Library on 26 September 2007. It was shown in the theater of the Dag Hammarskjöld Library at the United Nations on 10 November 2008 to commemorate the 70th anniversary of Kristallnacht.

References

External links

 United Nations website about Friedrich Kellner event
  (Video about Friedrich Kellner's diary)
 Diary Entries in German and English
 George Bush Presidential Library - Kellner exhibit
 Justus Liebig University - Kellner Project 
 Telefilm Canada - "My Opposition: The Diaries of Friedrich Kellner"
 Holocaust Museum Houston - Kellner exhibit
 Heimat Museum, Laubach, Germany - Kellner exhibit 

1885 births
1970 deaths
People from Vaihingen an der Enz
German Protestants
Social Democratic Party of Germany politicians
People from the Kingdom of Württemberg
German Army personnel of World War I
German resistance members
Protestants in the German Resistance
German diarists
German anti-fascists
German male non-fiction writers
20th-century German historians
Witnesses to The Holocaust