[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 183]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

trary to the Law of Nature, (which
is the indubitable everlasting Law of God) "Do not to another, that
which thou wouldest not he should doe unto thee."




Of Martyrs

But what then shall we say of all those Martyrs we read of in the
History of the Church, that they have needlessely cast away their lives?
For answer hereunto, we are to distinguish the persons that have been
for that cause put to death; whereof some have received a Calling to
preach, and professe the Kingdome of Christ openly; others have had no
such Calling, nor more has been required of them than their owne faith.
The former sort, if they have been put to death, for bearing witnesse to
this point, that Jesus Christ is risen from the dead, were true Martyrs;
For a Martyr is, (to give the true definition of the word) a Witnesse of
the Resurrection of Jesus the Messiah; which none can be but those
that conversed with him on earth, and saw him after he was risen: For a
Witnesse must have seen what he testifieth, or else his testimony is not
good. And that none but such, can properly be called Martyrs of Christ,
is manifest out of the words of St. Peter, Act. 1.21, 22. "Wherefore of
these men which have companyed with us all the time that the Lord Jesus
went in and out amongst us, beginning from the Baptisme of John unto
that same day hee was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a
Martyr (that is a Witnesse) with us of his Resurrection:" Where we
may observe, that he which is to bee a Witnesse of the truth of
the Resurrection of Christ, that is to say, of the truth of this
fundamentall article of Christian Religion, that Jesus was the Christ,
must be some Disciple that conversed with him, and saw him before, and
after his Resurrection; and consequently must be one of his originall
Disciples: whereas they which were not so, can Witnesse no more, but
that their antecessors said it, and are therefore but Witnesses of
other mens testimony; and are but second Martyrs, or Martyrs of Christs
Witnesses.

He, that to maintain every doctrine which he himself draweth out of
the History of our Saviours life, and of the Acts, or Epistles of the
Apostles; or which he beleeveth upon the authority of a private man,
wil oppose the Laws and Authority of the Civill State, is very far from
being a Martyr of Christ, or a Martyr of his Martyrs. ’Tis one Article
onely, which to die for, meriteth so honorable a name; and that Article
is this, that Jesus Is The Christ; that is to say, He that hath redeemed
us, and shall come again to give us salvation, and eternall life in his
glorious Kingdome. To die for every tenet that serveth the ambition,
or profit of the Clergy, is not required; nor is it the Death of the
Witnesse, but the Testimony it self that makes the Martyr: for the word
signifieth nothing else, but the man that beareth Witnesse, whether he
be put to death for his testimony, or not.

Also he that is not sent to preach this fundamentall article, but taketh
it upon him of his private authority, though he be a Witnesse, and
consequently a Martyr, either primary of Christ, or secondary of his
Apostles, Disciples, or their Successors; yet is he not obliged to
suffer death for that cause; because being not called thereto, tis
not required at his hands; nor ought hee to complain, if he loseth
the reward he expecteth from those that never set him on work. None
therefore can be a Martyr, neither of the first, nor second degree, that
have not a warrant to preach Christ come in the flesh; that is to say,
none, but such as are sent to the conversion of Infidels. For no man
is a Witnesse to him that already beleeveth, and therefore needs no
Witnesse; but to them that deny, or doubt, or have not heard it. Christ
sent his Apostles, and his Seventy Disciples, with authority to preach;
he sent not all that beleeved: And he sent them to unbeleevers; "I send
you (saith he) as sheep amongst wolves;" not as sheep to other sheep.




Argument From The Points Of Their Commission

Lastly the points of their Commission, as they are expressely set down
in the Gospel, contain none of them any authority over the Congregation.




To Preach

We have first (Mat. 10.) that the twelve Apostles were sent "to the
lost sheep of the house of Israel," and commanded to Preach, "that the
Kingdome of God was at hand." Now Preaching in the originall, is that
act, which a Crier, Herald, or other Officer useth to doe publiquely in
Proclaiming of a King. But a Crier hath not right to Command any man.
And (Luke 10.2.) the seventy Disciples are sent out, "as Labourers,
not as Lords of the Harvest;" and are bidden (verse 9.) to say, "The
Kingdome of God is come nigh unto you;" and by Kingdome here is meant,
not the Kingdome of Grace, but the Kingdome of Glory; for they are
bidden to denounce it (ver. 11.) to those Cities which shall not receive
them, as a threatning, that it shall be more tolerable in that