[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 28 Weeks Later

eleased on March 23, 2007, and attached to screenings in front of The Hills Have Eyes 2.

Home media
1.3 million DVD units have been sold in the United States, gathering a revenue of $24.3 million, as of July 2010. The film has been released as its own DVD and as a double feature with 28 Days Later.

Reception
Box office
The film opened in 2,000 cinemas across the United States. It made $9.8 million in its opening weekend, coming in second place at the box office, behind Spider-Man 3. The film has grossed $28.6 million in the US and $35.6 million in other countries, bringing the worldwide total to $64.2 million.

Critical reception
On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has generated a rating of 72% based on 196 reviews and an average rating of 6.6/10. The website's critical consensus states, "While 28 Weeks Later lacks the humanism that made 28 Days Later a classic, it's made up with fantastic atmosphere and punchy direction." On Metacritic, it has a weighted average of 78/100 based on 34 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".View London called the film an "exciting, action-packed and superbly directed thriller that more than lives up to the original film". The New York Timess A. O. Scott remarked that it is "brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying, as any respectable zombie movie should be. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques".

Derek Elley for Variety called it "a full-bore zombie romp that more than delivers the genre goods".

Soundtrack

The soundtrack was composed, written and performed by John Murphy. The score was released exclusively to iTunes on 12 June 2007. On 2 June 2009, a limited edition soundtrack was released by La-La Land Records. But only 1500 copies were made.

Potential sequel
In June 2007, Fox Atomic discussed the potential for a third film, dependent upon the financial performance of the film following its home video release. In July of the same year, whilst promoting Sunshine, Boyle said that the story for a third installment had been mapped out. By October 2010, Garland stated that due to differences involving the film rights, the project had been delayed. In January 2011 however, Boyle stated that he believed the project could be realized following the release of his stage adaptation of Frankenstein; stating his intent to further develop the story thereafter. By April 2013, the filmmaker stated that he wasn't sure if the movie would be made. By January 2015, Garland stated that serious discussions were ongoing internally to see if the movie could be made. He acknowledged that although there were many reasons that the project has been complicated to complete, he reiterated that development was progressing. At that time he believed the next film would be titled 28 Months Later. In June 2019, Boyle confirmed this by stating that he and Garland had been working on the project with hopes to begin production on the third installment.

In March 2020 Imogen Poots expressed interest in her role, followed by Cillian Murphy stating the same for his character in May 2021. In June 2023, Boyle and Garland discussed their collaboration on "seriously" and "diligently" seeing the project enter production. Garland stated that the script currently being written was tentatively titled 28 Years Later''; Boyle echoed these sentiments stating that he would like to direct the movie, should Garland decide to not additionally serve as director. By July of the same year, Murphy acknowledged that he and Boyle had recently discussed the third film including the fact that nearly twenty-eight years had passed since the release of the original movie. The actor once again expressed interest in reprising his role, as long as Boyle and Garland were involved in their respective creative roles.

References

External links

 
 

2007 films
2007 horror films
2000s science fiction horror films
American action horror films
American science fiction horror films
American post-apocalyptic films
American zombie films
American sequel films
British action horror films
British science fiction horror films
British post-apocalyptic films
British zombie films
British sequel films
Spanish science fiction horror films
Spanish post-apocalyptic films
Spanish sequel films
28 Days Later
English-language Spanish films
Films about viral outbreaks
Uxoricide in fiction
Films set in London
Films set in Paris
Films shot in Cardiff
Films shot in London
Films shot in Wales
Films directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo
Films scored by John Murphy (composer)
20th Century Fox films
Dune Entertainment films
DNA Films films
Animal Logic films
2000s English-language films
2000s American films
2000s British films