[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# December 1979

blicans by a ratio of 22 to 1, but Lambert's opponents in the Democratic primary had endorsed Treen in the runoff election.
Died: Robert Hocq, 62, French business executive who purchased and revived the ailing Cartier jewelry firm, was killed while crossing the street outside of his office in Paris.

December 9, 1979 (Sunday)
The Arab nation of Libya, led by Muammar Gaddafi, broke relations with the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) and closed its bureau in Tripoli, after PLO officials resisted Gaddafi's insistence that the Palestinian representatives rely predominantly on guerrilla warfare to achieve their goals against Israel. The break came after Gadaffi had called on Palestinian commandos in the more radical Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) to destroy the Suez Canal in Egypt and to wreck Egyptian oil fields in retaliation for Egypt's peace accords with Israel.

Died: Fulton J. Sheen, 84, American Roman Catholic Archbishop and television evangelist

December 10, 1979 (Monday)
The Kaohsiung Incident took place in Taiwan when police in the city of Kaohsiung blocked a rally in observation of the United Nations' Human Rights Day and a crowd of about 10,000 protesters.  Eight opposition leaders, associated with the political magazine Formosa, were arrested.  At the time, the Kuomintang was the only legal political party in Taiwan, formally the Republic of China.
For the first time since the beginning of the Iran Hostage Crisis, one of the U.S. Embassy personnel in detention was allowed to be interviewed by the American press.  U.S. Marine Sergeant William Gallegos, a guard at the besieged embassy in Tehran, was selected by his student captors to be questioned by George Lewis and Fred Francis of NBC Nightly News, and said that "The students here have been really good to us," adding "It's hard to believe, I know.  We haven't been asked any questions as to what we're doing here, what really our job was.  All of us can see each other.  Everybody's O.K."  
South Africa's white minority government partially relaxed some of its regulations under its apartheid policy of racial segregation, declaring that private businesses such as hospitals and drive-in theaters no longer had to renew permits allowing the admission of non-White customers.

December 11, 1979 (Tuesday)

Charles Haughey was elected by the Dáil Éireann (lower house of Ireland's bicameral parliament) as the new Taoiseach, or prime minister, of Ireland to replace Jack Lynch.  In a vote along party lines, Haughey, leader of the Fianna Fáil political party, was approved by a margin of 82 to 62, with the opposition coming from the Fine Gael party and its leader, Garret FitzGerald.
The multi-racial parliament of Zimbabwe Rhodesia voted, 90 to 0, to renounce the 1965 declaration of independence made by the white colonial government that had established the British colony of Southern Rhodesia as an independent nation.  The vote was the last legal step to return Southern Rhodesia to colonial status, in conjunction with the ceasefire agreement worked out to end the Rhodesian Civil War, and for Lord Christopher Soames to become the first British Governor of Southern Rhodesia in more than 14 years.
Born: Rider Strong, American TV actor and film director; in San Francisco
Died: James J. Gibson, 75, American psychologist known for his theory of ecological psychology in visual perception

December 12, 1979 (Wednesday)
The NATO Double-Track Decision was made as members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization decided to propose to the Warsaw Pact nations a mutual limitation of medium-range ballistic missiles and intermediate-range ballistic missiles combined. The offer was coupled with the threat that, in case of disagreement, NATO would deploy more middle-range nuclear weapons in Western Europe.  This followed the so-called "Euromissile Crisis".
The 8.2  Tumaco earthquake shook Colombia and Ecuador with a maximum Mercalli intensity of IX (Violent), killing at least 300 people and generating a large tsunami.  The  high tsunami reportedly swept away the people in six fishing villages along the Colombian coast.
South Korean Army Major General Chun Doo-hwan, Chief of Army Security Command, ordered the unauthorized arrest of the Army Chief of Staff, General Jeong Seung-hwa and several other generals after alleging their involvement in the assassination of ex-President Park Chung Hee. General Jeong's bodyguards engaged in a gunbattle with Chun's soldiers at the Defense Ministry headquarters and three people were killed, with four others seriously wounded before Jeong was taken into custody.  General Chun followed with a demand that Prime Minister Shin fill the vacancies, left by the arrest of 16 senior officers, with men of Chun's choice.
The unrecognized state of Zimbabwe Rhodesia returned to British control and resumed using the name Southern Rhodesia.

December 13, 1979 (Thursday)