[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Postage stamps and postal history of the Canal Zone

o this end Panama used their regular 50¢ stamp from their current series of issues. The 8¢ surcharge was made in Panama on Colombian stamps already overprinted with a red colored bar and the word PANAMA and occurs in varying thickness and forms. There are three varieties of the '8' in the surcharge.

1906–1909 issues
Postage stamps issued in 1906–1907 were printed by the Hamilton Bank Note Engraving and Printing Co, in New York; Those issued in 1909 were issued by the American Bank Note Company. This series of stamps features portraits of statesmen, educators and other prominent men involved in Panama's early history. There were ten designs in all. Some of the issues were printed with the portrait inverted. The 1909 overprints were printed at the Isthmian Canal Commission’s Printing Office in Panama City. The overprinting in the first printing places the word CANAL near the left side of the stamp, reading upward. Successive printings were issued with CANAL at the right, reading downward. Some of the issues have missing or partially missing overprints, doubled overprints and inverted overprinting. A specialized catalog is needed to determine which values have the various oveprinting errors.

A second series of stamps was issued in 1909, honoring the same figures depicted above in the 1906 issues, with same color themes for a given stamp, but with different border designs.

1915 and 1917 pictorial issues
A set of four pictorial stamps were issued by the Canal Zone authorities on March 1, 1915 to commemorate the opening of the Panama Canal. These series of stamps were very different from any of the previous issues in both shape and design. The designs consists of a black picture (a vignette) in the center framed by a colored border design.

A second series of three pictorial commemorative stamps were issued in January 1917. On November 27, 1916, Executive Secretary McIlvaine wrote to Panama's Secretary of Foreign Affairs Narciso Garay, informing him that the official name of the cut had been changed from 'Culebra Cut' to 'Gaillard Cut' but by then the 24c stamp commemorating this had already been printed with the former title. Most of the 1917 issues were never sold and were destroyed.

1921 issues
In 1921, the Republic of Panama planned to issue a Centennial commemorative series in honor of the 100th anniversary of Panama's independence from Spain. The Canal Zone was invited to participate in a postal way and the Canal Zone's Executive Secretary was pleased to accept their invitation. By the middle of January 1924, all the stamps of the 1¢ and 2¢ denominations were nearly exhaustedwhich prompted the next production of stamps, issued that year.

1924 Coat of Arms issue

Panama had ordered the new permanent coat of arms set both for use in Panama and for the Canal Zone. When stocks of the 1¢ Vallarino stamp were nearly used up it became imperative to have a new supply of 1-cent stamps at once. The Canal Zone Postal Authority requisitioned 50,000 of the 1¢ stamp from Panama for overprinting at Mount Hope and Panama sent over the Vallarino 1¢ stamp. On January 28, 1924, these stamps were overprinted at Mount Hope. Panama was billed for the cost of this overprinting. Before Panama was sent its order for its coat of arms series from the American Bank Note Company, it sent a letter of inquiry to the Canal Zone Administration informing them of their pending order and requested estimates of Canal Zone's stamp requirements for the next year. The Canal Zone overprints were shipped from the United States in January and February 1924 and delivered to the Canal Zone. The Coat of Arms stamps were printed in denominations ranging from 1-cent to 50-cents, however, only the 1-cent and 2-cent issues were ever released for use as postage.

1924–1925 overprints

U.S. Regular Issues printed on the flat plate press in 1922 were overprinted with the words CANAL ZONE and converted to Canal Zone Postage. The Bureau of Engraving and Printing received the first order of stamps from the Canal authorities in 1924.

1928 permanent issues 

On October 1, 1928, the first permanent issue Canal Zone stamp, 2 cent Goethals, was placed on sale.  Other permanent issues followed, designed to honor new members of the Isthmian Canal Commission established on the Isthmus during 1907: Lieut. Col. George W. Goethals, Chairman and Chief Engineer; The denominations of the stamps honoring the various members of the Commission, were: 1¢, Gorgas, 2¢ Goethals, 10¢ Hodges, 12¢ Gaillard, 14¢ Sibert, 15¢ Smith, 20¢ Rousseau, 30¢ Williamson, and 50¢ Blackburn. Canal Zone permanent and provisional issues have since replaced all overprinted United States stamps and stamped paper.