[Source: Gutenberg#7370 | Part 47]
# The Social Contract — Jean-Jacques Rousseau

vernments. And indeed, if
that be so, the people under his government are not a society of
rational creatures, entered into a community for their mutual good; they
are not such as have set rulers over themselves, to guard, and promote
that good; but are to be looked on as an herd of inferior creatures
under the dominion of a master, who keeps them and works them for his
own pleasure or profit. If men were so void of reason, and brutish, as
to enter into society upon such terms, prerogative might indeed be, what
some men would have it, an arbitrary power to do things hurtful to the
people.

Sect. 164. But since a rational creature cannot be supposed, when free,
to put himself into subjection to another, for his own harm; (though,
where he finds a good and wise ruler, he may not perhaps think it either
necessary or useful to set precise bounds to his power in all things)
prerogative can be nothing but the people’s permitting their rulers to
do several things, of their own free choice, where the law was silent,
and sometimes too against the direct letter of the law, for the public
good; and their acquiescing in it when so done: for as a good prince,
who is mindful of the trust put into his hands, and careful of the good
of his people, cannot have too much prerogative, that is, power to do
good; so a weak and ill prince, who would claim that power which his
predecessors exercised without the direction of the law, as a
prerogative belonging to him by right of his office, which he may
exercise at his pleasure, to make or promote an interest distinct from
that of the public, gives the people an occasion to claim their right,
and limit that power, which, whilst it was exercised for their good,
they were content should be tacitly allowed.

Sect. 165. And therefore he that will look into the history of England,
will find, that prerogative was always largest in the hands of our
wisest and best princes; because the people, observing the whole
tendency of their actions to be the public good, contested not what was
done without law to that end: or, if any human frailty or mistake (for
princes are but men, made as others) appeared in some small declinations
from that end; yet ’twas visible, the main of their conduct tended to
nothing but the care of the public. The people therefore, finding reason
to be satisfied with these princes, whenever they acted without, or
contrary to the letter of the law, acquiesced in what they did, and,
without the least complaint, let them inlarge their prerogative as they
pleased, judging rightly, that they did nothing herein to the prejudice
of their laws, since they acted conformable to the foundation and end of
all laws, the public good.

Sect. 166. Such god-like princes indeed had some title to arbitrary
power by that argument, that would prove absolute monarchy the best
government, as that which God himself governs the universe by; because
such kings partake of his wisdom and goodness. Upon this is founded that
saying, That the reigns of good princes have been always most dangerous
to the liberties of their people: for when their successors, managing
the government with different thoughts, would draw the actions of those
good rulers into precedent, and make them the standard of their
prerogative, as if what had been done only for the good of the people
was a right in them to do, for the harm of the people, if they so
pleased; it has often occasioned contest, and sometimes public
disorders, before the people could recover their original right, and get
that to be declared not to be prerogative, which truly was never so;
since it is impossible that any body in the society should ever have a
right to do the people harm; though it be very possible, and reasonable,
that the people should not go about to set any bounds to the prerogative
of those kings, or rulers, who themselves transgressed not the bounds of
the public good: for prerogative is nothing but the power of doing
public good without a rule.

Sect. 167. The power of calling parliaments in England, as to precise
time, place, and duration, is certainly a prerogative of the king, but
still with this trust, that it shall be made use of for the good of the
nation, as the exigencies of the times, and variety of occasions, shall
require: for it being impossible to foresee which should always be the
fittest place for them to assemble in, and what the best season; the
choice of these was left with the executive power, as might be most
subservient to the public good, and best suit the ends of parliaments.

Sect. 168. The old question will be asked in this matter of prerogative,
But who shall be judge when this power is made a right use of one
answer: between an executive power in being, with such a prerogative,
and a legislative that depends upon his will for their convening, there
can be no judge on earth; as there can be none between the legislative
and the people