[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Christ Church (Moscow, Idaho)

bruary 2023, U.S. District Court Judge Morrison C. England Jr. ruled that "the City indisputably erred in interpreting its own Code", and that the church members ought never to have been arrested in the first place, since the city ordinances explicitly exempted both religious and protest activities.

Handling of sexual abuse 
Christ Church ministers have garnered widespread criticism for their handling of instances of sexual abuse within the church's congregation. Head pastor Douglas Wilson publicly asked for leniency in 2005 when Steven Sitler, a student at New Saint Andrews College, was convicted of sex offenses involving children; and following the student's release from prison, Wilson married Sitler to a woman introduced to him by a former church elder.  After the wedding, a judge ruled Sitler must be chaperoned around his infant son, after he admitted to feeling sexual stimulation resulting from contact with the baby. Wilson has been criticized for his handling of the abuse case and for marrying the couple. Responding to allegations that he supported Sitler's actions, Wilson wrote, "My role was to encourage the father who discovered it to report Steven to the authorities immediately, and in subsequent counseling with Steven, to require him to confess to the crimes he had committed that had gone undetected."

In 2005, Greyfriar's Hall student Jamin Wright, then in his mid-20s, was put on trial following allegations of a sexual relationship with 14-year-old Natalie Greenfield. Pastor Douglas Wilson reportedly asked investigators for leniency and testified to the judge in the case that the relationship between Wright and the accuser was a secret parent-arranged courtship. Ultimately, Wright was found guilty of "injury to a child". In 2013, Wright was again arrested, and convicted of domestic battery. Greenfield subsequently accused Wilson of having sided with Wright, but later publicly apologized, writing, "I want to state publicly that I have sought the forgiveness of Douglas Wilson, and that he has extended it to me. As far as the two of us are concerned, the public controversy between us is now over. I sought his forgiveness for treating him and his church community as my enemy, and for blaming him for things he had nothing to do with."

In September 2021, Vice Media published an article documenting allegations of sexual assault from a dozen victims. The article interviewed several former members of the church who claimed that "women are told they must defer to church leaders and cannot say 'no' to their husbands, men are taught to strictly control their homes, and those who speak out can be isolated and harassed". One former church member, and student at the Christ Church-affiliated New Saint Andrews College, told Vice that she felt compelled by the church to marry her boyfriend from New Saint Andrews, despite the constant rape and abuse she claims she suffered. Her wedding was officiated by the church's pastor, Douglas Wilson. The woman said that other wives in the church reported that marital rape was common, and that when she went to church leaders to protest, they told her that a wife is not allowed to say 'no'. She reported that when she eventually divorced her husband and left the church, her car was repeatedly vandalized, and she received online abuse from church members. Pastor Douglas Wilson responded to article saying that it was slanderous and inaccurate, writing that "Every Christian leader, pastor, board member, writer, thought-influencer, or teacher who read that Vice article and then publicly voiced their solidarity or sympathy with it—in any way, shape, or form—has disqualified themselves ... they might as well step down now before the methods and procedures they have internalized and endorsed come back around when it is time to devour them."

A number of additional allegations stemming from anonymous sources have been documented on Christian blogs and YouTube channels.