[Source: Gutenberg#2814 | Part 49]
# Utopia — Thomas More

d she slipped the doubtful items in
between the old favourites. Mr Holohan called to see her every day to
have her advice on some point. She was invariably friendly and
advising—homely, in fact. She pushed the decanter towards him, saying:

“Now, help yourself, Mr Holohan!”

And while he was helping himself she said:

“Don’t be afraid! Don’t be afraid of it!”

Everything went on smoothly. Mrs Kearney bought some lovely blush-pink
charmeuse in Brown Thomas’s to let into the front of Kathleen’s dress.
It cost a pretty penny; but there are occasions when a little expense
is justifiable. She took a dozen of two-shilling tickets for the final
concert and sent them to those friends who could not be trusted to come
otherwise. She forgot nothing and, thanks to her, everything that was
to be done was done.

The concerts were to be on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.
When Mrs Kearney arrived with her daughter at the Antient Concert Rooms
on Wednesday night she did not like the look of things. A few young
men, wearing bright blue badges in their coats, stood idle in the
vestibule; none of them wore evening dress. She passed by with her
daughter and a quick glance through the open door of the hall showed
her the cause of the stewards’ idleness. At first she wondered had she
mistaken the hour. No, it was twenty minutes to eight.

In the dressing-room behind the stage she was introduced to the
secretary of the Society, Mr Fitzpatrick. She smiled and shook his
hand. He was a little man, with a white vacant face. She noticed that
he wore his soft brown hat carelessly on the side of his head and that
his accent was flat. He held a programme in his hand and, while he was
talking to her, he chewed one end of it into a moist pulp. He seemed to
bear disappointments lightly. Mr Holohan came into the dressing-room
every few minutes with reports from the box-office. The _artistes_
talked among themselves nervously, glanced from time to time at the
mirror and rolled and unrolled their music. When it was nearly
half-past eight, the few people in the hall began to express their
desire to be entertained. Mr Fitzpatrick came in, smiled vacantly at
the room, and said:

“Well now, ladies and gentlemen. I suppose we’d better open the ball.”

Mrs Kearney rewarded his very flat final syllable with a quick stare of
contempt, and then said to her daughter encouragingly:

“Are you ready, dear?”

When she had an opportunity, she called Mr Holohan aside and asked him
to tell her what it meant. Mr Holohan did not know what it meant. He
said that the Committee had made a mistake in arranging for four
concerts: four was too many.

“And the _artistes_!” said Mrs Kearney. “Of course they are doing their
best, but really they are not good.”

Mr Holohan admitted that the _artistes_ were no good but the Committee,
he said, had decided to let the first three concerts go as they pleased
and reserve all the talent for Saturday night. Mrs Kearney said
nothing, but, as the mediocre items followed one another on the
platform and the few people in the hall grew fewer and fewer, she began
to regret that she had put herself to any expense for such a concert.
There was something she didn’t like in the look of things and Mr
Fitzpatrick’s vacant smile irritated her very much. However, she said
nothing and waited to see how it would end. The concert expired shortly
before ten, and everyone went home quickly.

The concert on Thursday night was better attended, but Mrs Kearney saw
at once that the house was filled with paper. The audience behaved
indecorously, as if the concert were an informal dress rehearsal. Mr
Fitzpatrick seemed to enjoy himself; he was quite unconscious that Mrs
Kearney was taking angry note of his conduct. He stood at the edge of
the screen, from time to time jutting out his head and exchanging a
laugh with two friends in the corner of the balcony. In the course of
the evening, Mrs Kearney learned that the Friday concert was to be
abandoned and that the Committee was going to move heaven and earth to
secure a bumper house on Saturday night. When she heard this, she
sought out Mr Holohan. She buttonholed him as he was limping out
quickly with a glass of lemonade for a young lady and asked him was it
true. Yes, it was true.

“But, of course, that doesn’t alter the contract,” she said. “The
contract was for four concerts.”

Mr Holohan seemed to be in a hurry; he advised her to speak to Mr
Fitzpatrick. Mrs Kearney was now beginning to be alarmed. She called Mr
Fitzpatrick away from his screen and told him that her daughter had
signed for four concerts and that, of course, according to the terms of
the contract, she should receive the sum originally stipulated for,
whether the society gave the four concerts or not. Mr Fitzpatrick, who
did not catch the point at issue very quickly, seemed unable to resolve
the difficulty and said that he would bring th