[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mojave Road

e Road into Southern California. Beale's road was shorter than the route via the more southern Southern Emigrant Trail and it was cooler in summer, snow-free in winter, had better forage, and was better watered. Soon hostilities began between the Mohaves and the settlers, triggering the Mohave War. 

From the time of the Mohave War the Mohave Road came under the purview of the U.S. government. Army posts were established at Fort Mojave, at Beale's Crossing in 1859, and, after the Bitter Spring Expedition at Camp Cady,  east of Fork of the Road at its junction with the Mormon Road, in 1860. Smaller outposts were established later in the 1860s east of Camp Cady along the trail and regular patrols instituted. The army protected the settlers and travelers from the attacks of the resident Paiute, Mojave, and Chemehuevi Native Americans until 1871. This also opened the way for large mining development in the Mojave Desert region of San Bernardino County and agricultural development in the Victor Valley area.

During the Colorado River Gold Rush from 1862 it became one of the major roads to the gold and silver mining regions on the upper river and linked by the Hardyville - Prescott Road in 1864 to the mining regions in northern and central Arizona.

The route today
The eastern end of the Mojave Road begins at the edge of the Colorado River, near the site of Beale's Crossing, north of Needles and the western terminus lies beyond the Rasor Off-Highway Vehicle Area and the Afton Canyon Natural Area near the Manix Wash.

Landmarks

The following list of markers follows east to west travel.
The Colorado River – Where the trail begins, near Beale's Crossing on the west side of the river across the river from what became the site of Fort Mohave. (mile 0) 
 Beaver Lake – A lake, sometimes a slough of the Colorado River during spring floods.  The original road passed the lake on the north  –  from the river crossing, in the 19th century.  The Mohave War Battle of Beaver Lake was fought there just north of the lake.  In the 20th century, cutoff from the spring floods of the river by the construction of dams above it, Beaver Lake dried up, becoming playa, desert or farmland.  The modern trail cuts across the middle of this former water feature. 
Piute Creek – With Piute Spring, a natural spring, as its source, a desert oasis with trees and plants growing all year round, in the Piute Range. (mile 23) 
Fort Piute – Next to the mouth of Piute Creek where the oasis ends, this fort was built in 1867 by the US infantry, one of several to guard the Government Road between Fort Mohave and San Bernardino. (mile 23) 
Lanfair Valley – Cattle ranches have been here since 1880. (mile 34) 
Indian Hill , Indian Well  – About a mile north of the Mojave Road at mile 40, there is Indian Hill, the summit on the south end of the Lanfair Buttes.  Indian Well an old well of debatable origin lies to the northwest of Indian Hill.(mile 40) 
Joshua Tree Forest – The road gets very narrow in this thick forest in Lanfair Valley. (mile 47) 
Rock Spring – The biggest watering hole along the Mojave Road. The stream flows down large boulders. There is an old cabin here. (mile 49) 
Government Holes – Another water supply in Round Valley, west of Rock Spring, with an old concrete trough. (mile 52) 
Cedar Canyon – The highest point of the trip, crossing the Mid Hills you will reach  elevation. (mile 56) 
Kelso-Cima Road – In the middle of the trip, this is the last paved road you will see for a long time (mile 62) 
 Marl Spring – Another spring with a primitive concrete trough. (mile 70) 
Mojave Road Mail Box – Sign your name at this solitary flagpole and continue on. (mile 74) 
Willow Wash – A wash with heavy sands south and west of the Cima Volcanic Range and Volcanic_Fields, parallels Kelbaker Rd. to where it breaks up into distributary washes beyond Seventeen Mile Point. (mile 77) 
Kelbaker Road – The section of the paved road between Baker and Kelso Junction.
 Seventeen Mile Point – Mountain marking the halfway point between Soda Spring and Marl Spring. Site of Seventeen Mile Point mining camp. 
Soda Lake – A large dry lake; proceed with caution. You may have to drive around in the winter. (mile 97) 
Soda Springs in (Zzyzx) – Small private building on the edge of Soda Lake. 
Travelers Monument – Also known as Government Monument, travelers carry a rock across the dry lake and add it to the pile. (mile 100) 
Rasor OHV Area – Open use area. (mile 103) 
Sand Dunes – There are a few soft sand dunes along here that you can play on. (mile 106) 
Afton Canyon – Deep canyon with steep walls, riparian habitat restoration, and plenty of scenery. (mile 116) 
Mojave River crossing – The only water crossing on this trail. (mile 121) 
Manix Wash – The exit point of the Mojave Road. (mile 133) 
 Camp Cady – a former U.S. Army Camp along the old Mojave Road, on the Mojave River (mile 136.1) 
 Fork of the Road – Location along the north bank of the Mojave River were the