[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Operation Bøllebank

, and 19 armour-piercing rounds. Rounds struck an ammunition depot and several bunkers as well as three T-55 Bosnian Serb tanks, according to other source, causing a great deal of destruction and thwarting the ambush in an instance of what Møller describes as "the mouse who ate the cat".

Aftermath 

The events of Operation Bøllebank were by no means without consequences for either the Danish forces or the larger UN peacekeeping operations that they supported as a part of UNPROFOR. Criticism of the operation and its leadership, particularly the Danish leaders Lars Møller and Carsten Rasmussen, came from both UN administrators and the successive leadership of NORDBAT 2. Those in the UN who had always been skeptical of the deployment of tanks by the Danish government claimed that the mere presence of the armoured vehicles in Tuzla was a provocation and caused an increase in aggression on the Serbian side. Internally, the last commander of NORDBAT 2, Brigadier General Per Hvidberg, stationed in Tuzla from 1995 to 1996, described Møller’s use of force to be unnecessary, "provocatory" and "wrong" as it breached the strict Rules of Engagement set in place by the UN.

The incident elicited mixed internal responses, as resistance and scepticism toward the use of heavy artillery and tanks as components of peacekeeping missions had always been raised by parts of the UN, whilst other parts had proven willing to approve the use of such force. In the aftermath of Operation Bøllebank, UN headquarters in Zagreb, Croatia, began investigating whether the Danes had broken the “Rules of Engagement” in place through excessive use of force. A debriefing showed that Danish forces had opened fire only after they had been fired upon and then only after a significant delay. According to Møller, UN headquarters took some measures to limit the freedom of movement of the Danish tanks after the incident. Hearings or investigation of the events of Operation Bøllebank were never undertaken by the Danish government. Another incident took place later that year between Danish peacekeepers and Serb forces near Gradačac in the course of Operation Amanda.

On a larger scale, the operation also resulted in serious consequences for the UNPROFOR and the reputation and legitimacy of UN peacekeeping. The Security Council’s decision to allow the use of force by UNPROFOR forces in self-defence and to collaborate with NATO to order air support resulted in great discrepancies between the military reality of conditions on the ground in Bosnia and traditionally-held understandings of the nature and role of UN peacekeeping. As was illustrated in the case of Operation Bøllebank, what resulted as a consequence of such discrepancies was a largely-disjointed system in which UNPROFOR forces, who were in principle authorised to use force and air support in self-defence, but they often had their requests denied by a UN leadership that was wary of allowing UNPROFOR forces to exercise such authorisations for fear of being perceived as a warring party itself. While not a direct consequence of Operation Bøllebank, the contradictory structures and mandate at the basis of UNPROFOR and the controversial role played by its operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina ultimately led the Security Council to disband UNPROFOR as a separate department in March 1995 and to restructure the programme into the separate-but-interlinked peacekeeping operations.

Ongoing debate in Denmark
Operation Bøllebank has been referred to in the Danish media as a famous and historic event in Danish military history. In recent years, the incident has again received media attention after a nearly 600-page book by Lars Møller entitled “Operation Bøllebank” recounting the events was published in 2016. The description forwarded by Møller in his book has been a central driver in re-awakening debate about the series of events which occurred under the operation more than twenty years prior and bringing Operation Bøllebank back into Danish headlines.

Strong criticism since 2016 has mainly been raised by a group of soldiers who took part in Operation Bøllebank, and has targeted the leadership of Carsten Rasmussen, leader of the tank squadron at the time of the operation, and Møller himself, declaring official accounts of the operation to be false. Criticism of the operation’s leadership was first voiced in an interview with Erik Kirk, platoon leader of the second platoon. Although the interview with Kirk occurred nearly a decade before the publishing of Møller’s book, it was not until 2016, two years after Kirk’s death, that other members of the operation added their criticisms and brought the case into the media spotlight. Declaring the official accounts to be a standing joke, opposition to Møller’s and the official record of events was raised and corroborated by over 20 sources who had taken part in the operation.