[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# United States Military Railroad

2, the USMRR and civilian railroads completed the movement of both corps and all of their artillery, transportation, and baggage. From Bridgeport, Hooker marched his force towards Chattanooga to participate in the fighting to relieve the Army of the Cumberland.

Atlanta Campaign

Petersburg Campaign

At the conclusion of the Overland Campaign in 1864, Lt. General Grant directed Major General Meade to transfer his Army of the Potomac to the south side of the James River in effort to capture the Confederate rail center of  Petersburg and sever Richmond’s supply lines.  The Union did not capture Petersburg before the city's defenders were reinforced by troops from General Lee's Army of Northern Virginia.  The continual Union movement towards the Confederate flanks gave way to digging as siege operations to isolate the Confederate capital began in earnest.

Grant established his headquarters on the grounds of Appomattox Manor overlooking the confluence of the Appomattox and James rivers.  City Point, Virginia, modern day Hopewell, became the principal logistical base for the Virginia theater supplying the troops of both Meade's Army of the Potomac and Major General Benjamin Butler’s Army of the James.  In all the United States Military Railroad supplied more than 100,000 troops and more than 65,000 horses and mules with food, equipment and supplies from the waterfront docks on the navigable portion of the James River at City Point.

Initial railroad operations began when the USMRR rebuilt and restored service along 9 miles of the Petersburg and City Point Railroad’s line.  As the Union Army steadily extended its siege lines to the south and west, the USMRR construction corps followed in the Army's wake extending rail service from City Point to positions behind the new Union left flank.  Eventually the USMRR added 21 additional miles of track which partially encircled Petersburg from the east to the southwest.  Parts of the USMRR extension are preserved today within the borders of Fort Lee, Virginia, where a series of four historic markers show the route that the railroad followed behind the Union lines. When Petersburg was eventually abandoned in 1865 the 25 engines and 275 pieces of other rolling stock had logged a grand total of 2,300,000 operating miles.

Commanders 

 Brevet Major General Daniel McCallum

References

Bibliography

 Bacon, Benjamin (1997) Sinews of War: How Technology, Industry and Transportation Won the Civil War. Novato: Presidio Press. .
 Clark, John E. Jr. (2001) Railroads in the Civil War The Impact of Management on Victory and Defeat. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press. .
 Gabel, Christopher R. (1977) Railroad Generalship: Foundations of Civil War Strategy. US Army Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, KS. Combat Studies Institute. 
 Hodges, Robert R. Jr. (2009) American Civil War Railroad Tactics. Oxford, UK: Osprey Publishing. .
 Pickenpaugh, Roger (1863) Rescue by Rail: Troop Transfer and the Civil War in the West, 1863. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press. .
 Summers, Festus P. (1993) Baltimore and Ohio in the Civil War. Gettysburg: Stan Clark Military Books. .
 Turner, George Edgar (1992) Victory Rode the Rails: The Strategic Place of the Railroads in the Civil War. Bison Books. .
 U.S. War Department. The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies. Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.
 Weber, Thomas (1952) The Northern Railroads in the Civil War, 1861-1865. Bloomington : Indiana University Press. .

External links 

 Documentary survey of the U.S. military railroad construction corps activities in the Washington, D.C., area during the Civil War, Library of Congress
 Campbell, E. G.  (1938) The United States Military Railroads, 1862‑1865 War Time Operation and Maintenance. Journal of the American Military History Foundation, Vol. 2, No. 2 (Summer 1938), pp. 70‑89. 
 Alan R. Koenig. Railroad’s Critical Role in the Civil War, America’s Civil War magazine, September 1996.
 David A. Pfeiffer. Working Magic with Cornstalks and Beanpoles: Records Relating to the U.S. Military Railroads during the Civil War. Prologue Magazine, Summer 2011, Vol. 43, No. 2.

Defunct Virginia railroads
History of rail transportation in the United States
Military railways
Union Army
Virginia in the American Civil War