[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Beznau Nuclear Power Plant

.

Technical specifications

Reactors and generators 

The KKB is composed of two identical pressurized water reactors units (Beznau 1 and 2) delivered by Westinghouse Electric.

Both reactors are certified for the use of MOX fuel. Since 2013, no more MOX fuel elements are used in both Beznau units.

Characterized by a thermal power of 1130 MW, each unit produces 365 MW net electricity through two Brown Boveri turbine generators. Over the years the net electric power produced has been increased twice: it was 350 MW until 30 September 1996 and 357 MW until 2 January 2000. The energy is delivered to the 220 kV grid.

The plant is cooled using the water of the Aar river and through the district heating system Refuna.

Refuna nuclear district heating 
The Beznau NPP has been supplying the district heating system Refuna since 1984. This reduces the effect of the plant on the water temperature of the Aar river, and provides eleven surrounding municipalities with up to 150 GW·h of carbon-free heat per year. Beside Döttingen, the connected municipalities are Bad Zurzach, Klingnau, Unterendingen, Endingen, Böttstein, Tegerfelden, and in the bordering Baden District, Würenlingen and Untersiggenthal, and in the other bordering Brugg District, Rüfenach and Villigen. The heat extraction, at a supply temperature from 125 °C in winter down to 80 °C in summer, induces a loss of electric power, but less than 18 GW·he/year at 2 MWe average electric power loss. The energy content of the average 142 GW·h/y provided heat, is about the same as of 14,200,000 m3 of natural gas, averaging more than 5,800 m3 of natural gas consumption yearly saved for each of the 2,432 connected homes and customers.

Safety measures 

Since the commissioning of the two reactors numerous upgrades have been carried out to improve safety. In the 1990s, the steam generators and the control technology of the reactor protection system were replaced. The control rooms were consequently adapted and new turbine controls installed.

Furthermore, each reactor unit has been equipped with an emergency building (NANO, NAchrüstung NOtstandsystem). These contain additional safety systems for the reactor emergency shutdown and for the feeding of the steam generators, a 50 kV emergency power line, and a diesel electricity generator. They are heavily protected (bunkerised) from external hazards and, if needed, are able to cool and shut down the power plant without human intervention for 72 hours.<ref>[http://woody.com/2012/05/07/not-losing-to-the-rain/ The Notstand building, a bunkered facility which could support all of the plant systems for at least 72 hours. I asked Martin Richner, the head of risk assessment, why Beznau spent so much money on the Notstand building when there was no regulation or government directive to do so. Martin answered me, “Woody, we live here.”]</ref> The at least 1.5 m thick concrete-steel housings protect the critical systems from external agents like earthquakes or plane crashes. Each unit of the KKB has a large dry type containment in steel and concrete.

The emergency core cooling (ECCS) is performed by a redundant high-pressure safety injection system with a total of three strands (one in the NANO). The two steam generators are provided with water by two main feeding pumps. If they fail, feeding is taken over by one of the security systems: a double-stranded auxiliary feedwater system or one of the two emergency feedwater systems, one of which part of the bunkerised NANO. Finally, in case of problems with the cooling, two containment spray systems are entrusted with the removal of excessive heat and pressure by condensation of the resulting steam.

The power plant is connected through five strands to the external power grid. Two of them are mainly used to deliver the power plant output to the 220 kV grid. They are nevertheless equipped with an emergency diesel generator each. Two other strands provide emergency power and are connected to the nearby hydroelectric power plant and the 50 kV grid. Further, two diesel generators expressly equipped to be able to work in case of Accident management are also available. The NANO is connected through the fifth strand to the 50 kV grid and contains a fifth generator. The plant main UPS system can provide direct current for at least 2 h of normal operation.

 Waste management 

The KKB operates, since 1993, a separate interim radioactive waste storage facility (ZWIBEZ). It is composed of a hall for low level operational waste and a second one for the dry storage of spent fuel. The waste needing conditioning is stored in the central interim storage facility (ZZL) in Würenlingen. These two deposits are to ensure the storage of the plant's waste until at least 2020.

 Safety events