[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Hampden Grammar School

John Hampden Grammar School (known colloquially as "JHGS") is a selective state boys' grammar school in High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, England. It is named after the local member of parliament and English Civil War commander John Hampden. In June 2011, the school became an Academy.

Established as the Schools of Science and Art in 1893, it is situated on Marlow Hill to the south of the town and has a capacity of about 1,150 boys aged between 11 and 18.

History

Early origins as the Schools of Science and Art: 1893–1915

In the early 1890s a fund was set up to raise money for an art and technical school in High Wycombe to help support the traditional skills in the town of cabinet making, carving and polishing. Early donations to the fund included a grant of £575 from the School of Art in Kensington Gardens and a further donation from Buckinghamshire County Council's education fund which had benefited from proceeds derived from an unpopular tax imposed on wines and spirits. To make up the shortfall needed to pay for the building the schools' trustees and general committee ran a three-day fair in the grounds of Wycombe Abbey, the home of the then Lord Carrington. The fête took place in July 1892, with Lady Carrington arriving by a special train from Paddington. The Great Western Railway also ran excursions from Maidenhead, Thame, Aylesbury and Chinnor and the revelries were led by the band of the 17th Lancers. By the end of the event the committee had raised £800.

The school was originally built on 530 square yards of land in Frogmore Gardens (now known as 'Frogmoor' or 'Frogmore') purchased from Lord Carrington for £325. The building work cost £1,964 and when the school opened there was still a shortfall of £230, some of which was met by a further bazaar. The original building was designed by Arthur Vernon who also designed the RGS building and was the first man to own a car in High Wycombe. In 1901 the trustees allowed girls to be taught in separate classes and teachers and this arrangement continued until 1906 when the girls moved to buildings in Benjamin Road, ultimately becoming Wycombe High School. Courses were run at the school at all times of the day but most were in the evenings and weekends so that pupils could also work in the local furniture trade.

Technical Institute and moving from Frogmoor: 1915–1966

Soon after the Schools of Science and Art opened the Frogmoor building, it became clear it was too small and a new site was discussed. In 1915 the Royal Grammar School moved to new buildings on Amersham Hill and it was suggested that the school (now usually referred to as Chepping Wycombe Science and Art Schools and Technical Institute) moved into the now vacated buildings in Easton Street (also designed by Arthur Vernon). Unfortunately the outbreak of the First World War meant that the Wycombe High School buildings were needed as a hospital so the girls moved into Easton Street and the boys had to wait. The Institute finally moved to Easton Street in 1919 and soon there was a significant expansion. Firstly the 1918 Education Act raised the school leaving age to 14 and it was decided to set up a Junior Day Technical School as part of the institute. This would be a full-time school. At the same time the Institute set up a training school for ex-soldiers and sailors who had become disabled in the war to prepare them for the furniture trade. The Easton Street buildings also soon proved too small and were significantly expanded and a series of wooden huts were installed to be used as classrooms. The Frogmoor school continued to be used after the move to Easton Street and was finally sold in 1928 (for £3,500). It has since been used for a number of different purposes including a swimming pool and is now a dentist's practice.

In 1920, the Day School opened and technical classes in metalwork and woodwork were introduced – the first in the country. The schools changed their names to Wycombe Technical Institute and tuition was offered in most subjects (except French). Although the School of Art continued to be part of the Institute it was often considered a separate entity and it moved to Amersham in 1973 becoming part of Amersham and Wycombe College. In 1927 land was rented from Lord Carrington to become the school's playing fields – until then the boys had used the Rye for sports fixtures. The boys had to change in an open fronted pavilion – close to where the present one is located – and the girls had to change behind the large roller. The school motto Quit Ye Like Men, adapted from I Corinthians 16 v13, was adopted in 1924. It remained the motto even during the co-ed period – girls were admitted in 1925 mainly to study commercial subjects.