[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# July 1976

criminal and SS officer who had been convicted of the Malmedy massacre of American prisoners of war, was killed in a fire at his home in the village of Traves, Haute-Saône in France by French survivors of the war.  He had been living in France since 1956 after serving nine years of a life sentence.

July 15, 1976 (Thursday)
Three men kidnapped 26 schoolchildren and their bus driver who were returning from an afternoon swimming pool excursion in Chowchilla, California.  After stopping the bus at gunpoint at 4:00 p.m. the group transferred their captives from the bus to two vans, and drove them  to the Cal Rock Quarry in Livermore, California.  Arriving at 3:00 the next morning, the group forced the 27 captives into a truck and buried the vehicle in the quarry.  The kidnappers, Frederick Newhall Woods IV (whose father owned the rock quarry) and brothers James Schoenfeld and Richard Schoenfeld, had intended to call a five million dollar ransom demand to the Chowchilla Police Department, but were unable to get through because parents of the missing Dairyland Union School students (who ranged in age from 5 to 14) and the media had tied up the department's phone lines.  The bus driver Ed Ray, and the oldest student, Michael Marshall, spent hours in forcing open the top of the truck and escaped at 7:00 that evening.  Richard Schoenfeld turned himself in to the police on July 23, while the other two were arrested after two weeks as fugitives.
Soviet dissident and political writer Andrei Amalrik, known for his 1970 essay "Will the Soviet Union Survive Until 1984?", left the country permanently after being given the choice of imprisonment or going into exile with his family.  He and his wife boarded an Aeroflot flight in Moscow and flew to Amsterdam in the Netherlands.  Amalrik's essay had resulted in his arrest and exile to Siberia in 1970, and after coming back from exile in 1975, he was barred from living in Moscow.  His last violation of the terms of his parole had ended with his arrest on February 20.  Before leaving, Amalrik told a crowd of supporters and western reporters, "My departure is of a temporary character."  Amalrik never returned, and was killed in an auto accident near the city of Guadajarla in Spain on November 12, 1980.
Jimmy Carter was nominated for U.S. president at the Democratic National Convention in New York City.
The day after his nomination as the Democratic Party candidate for U.S. President, former Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter selected U.S. Senator Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota to be his running mate. As part of the Carter—Mondale ticket, Mondale would be elected Vice President of the United States on November 2.
Presidents Anwar Sadat of Egypt and Jaafar Nimeiry of the Sudan signed a mutual defense treaty at a meeting in the port of Alexandria.
Born: 
Jim Jones (stage name for Joseph Guillermo Jones II), successful American hip hop music artist; in New York City
Diane Kruger, German-born American film and TV actress; in Algermissen, West Germany
Faraz Anwar, Pakistani heavy metal guitarist; in Karachi
Died: Paul Gallico, 78, American novelist whose thriller The Poseidon Adventure, was successfully adapted to film

July 16, 1976 (Friday)
Albert Spaggiari and his gang broke into the vault of the Société Generale Bank in Nice, in France and robbed its contents undetected during the weekend.  An estimated $12 million dollars of assets were stolen from the bank by the gang, which had driven into the sewer tunnels running beneath the building and then created an opening in the floor of the vault.
The African nation of Nigeria began a walkout of teams from the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, as it withdrew its 45 Olympic athletes to protest New Zealand's "continued collaboration with racist South Africa." Taiwan withdrew its team in protest because the International Olympic Committee would not allow it to compete under the name "Republic of China", or to fly its national flag or play its anthem in the event of a medal award.  The Canadian government had initially said that it would not allow the 43 athletes from Taiwan to participate in the Olympics because of the presence of the People's Republic of China, but reversed the decision after protests and offered to allow participation on the condition that the country not identify itself as the Republic of China.
Born: Romain Haguenauer, French ice dancing choreographer and coach; in Lyon
Died: 
Carmelo Soria, 54, Spanish-born Chilean dissident and United Nations diplomat who had been using his diplomatic immunity status to arrange asylum for endangered Chileans in foreign embassies, was found dead, two days after he had been kidnapped and tortured.
Billie von Bremen, American sprint runner and gold medalist in the 1932 Summer Olympics