[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mount Meager massif

The Mount Meager massif is a group of volcanic peaks in the  of the Coast Mountains in southwestern British Columbia, Canada. Part of the Cascade Volcanic Arc of western North America, it is located  north of Vancouver at the northern end of the Pemberton Valley and reaches a maximum elevation of . The massif is capped by several eroded volcanic edifices, including , volcanic plugs and overlapping piles of lava flows; these form at least six major summits including Mount Meager which is the second highest of the massif.

The Garibaldi Volcanic Belt (GVB) has a long history of eruptions and poses a threat to the surrounding region. Any volcanic hazard ranging from landslides to eruptions could pose a significant risk to humans and wildlife. Although the massif has not erupted for more than 2,000 years, it could produce a major eruption; if this were to happen, relief efforts would be quickly organized. Teams such as the Interagency Volcanic Event Notification Plan (IVENP) are prepared to notify people threatened by volcanic eruptions in Canada.

The Mount Meager massif produced the largest volcanic eruption in Canada in the last 10,000 years. About 2,400 years ago, an explosive eruption formed a volcanic crater on its northeastern flank and sent avalanches of hot ash, rock fragments and volcanic gases down the northern flank of the volcano. Evidence for more recent volcanic activity has been documented at the volcano, such as hot springs and earthquakes. The Mount Meager massif has also been the source of several large landslides in the past, including a massive debris flow in 2010 that swept down Meager Creek and the Lillooet River.

Geography and geology

Regional geography
The Mount Meager massif lies in the Coast Mountains, which extend from Vancouver to the Alaskan Panhandle for . It is about  wide, cut by fjords, narrow inlets with steep cliffs created by glacial erosion. The Coast Mountains have a profound effect on British Columbia's climate. Lying just east of the Pacific Ocean, they shear off moisture-laden air coming off the ocean, causing heavy rainfall on their western slopes. This precipitation is among the most extreme in North America, feeding lush forests on the mountain range's western slopes.

Valleys surrounding the massif contain old-growth forests. The area also features wetland habitats, plants of the  and glaucous willowherbs. Wildlife such as wolves, wolverine, moose, raptors, black-tailed deer,  and waterfowl inhabit the area as well as grizzly and black bears.

Regional geomorphology

Garibaldi Volcanic Belt

The Mount Meager massif is part of the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt (GVB), the northernmost segment of the . This volcanic belt includes cinder cones, calderas, stratovolcanoes and subglacial volcanoes (volcanoes under glaciers or ice sheets) that have been active in the last 10,000 years. The latest explosive eruption in the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt occurred at a crater on the northeastern slope of the massif about 2,400 years ago, which forms a clearly defined depression.

The GVB extends north from the Watts Point volcano to at least as far as the Meager massif. Because little is known about the volcanoes north of the massif, such as the Silverthrone and , experts disagree about their nature. Some scientists regard the Silverthrone Caldera as the northernmost volcano of the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt, while others contend that the geology of the massif more closely matches that of the GVB. It is also unclear whether the Milbanke Sound Cones are part of the Garibaldi Belt or formed by different tectonic processes. However, there is evidence the Silverthrone and  complexes are related to activity at the Cascadia subduction zone. Geologically these two volcanoes contain the same rock types as those found elsewhere in the Cascade Arc, including rhyolites, dacites, andesites and basaltic andesites. Such rock types are produced by subduction zone volcanism indicating volcanism at Silverthrone and  is probably related to subduction. If these two volcanoes are true Cascade Arc volcanoes, the  massif is not the northernmost volcano of the Garibaldi Belt or the Cascade Arc.

Cascade Volcanic Arc
Volcanism in the Cascade Volcanic Arc is caused by subduction of the Juan de Fuca Plate under the North American Plate at the . This is a  long fault zone lying  off the  from Northern California to southwestern British Columbia. The plates move at a relative rate of more than  per year at an oblique angle to the subduction zone. Because of the huge fault area, the Cascadia subduction zone can produce large earthquakes of magnitude 7.0 or greater. The interface between the Juan de Fuca and North American plates remains locked for periods of roughly 500 years. During these periods, stress builds up on the interface between the plates and causes tectonic uplift of the North American margin. When the plate finally slips, it releases 500 years of stored energy in a massive earthquake.