[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Division Street riots

ty leaders organized several peace rallies at Humboldt Park. There were also marches and demonstrations, including a march on June 28, 1966, at which over 200 Puerto Ricans from the Division Street area marched five miles to City Hall to protest the city government's negligence and police brutality.

A month after the riot, the Chicago Commission on Human Relations held open hearings, which provided a forum for Puerto Rican and other Spanish-speaking residents of Chicago to discuss problems facing these communities. They discussed the displacement and discrimination in housing, discriminatory practices by the police and fire departments, and poor educational opportunities. The hearings lasted for two days. During the hearings, Puerto Ricans cited a lack of jobs, poor housing and education, little political power, union discrimination, inadequate city services, and police brutality. As a result of these meetings, the Puerto Rican community proposed specific policy recommendations.

With support from Community Action Agencies in the Division Street Area, the riots inspired the creation of Puerto Rican community organizations. These include the Spanish Action Committee of Chicago (SACC), the Latin American Defense Organization (LADO), the Bickerdike Revedelopment Corporation, the ASPIRA Association and the Young Lords (in 1968); cultural centers such as the Ruiz Belvis Cultural Center and the Juan Antonio Corretjer Puerto Rican Cultural Center; and a school, the Escuela Superior Puertorriqueña (which is now named Dr. Pedro Albizú Campos Puerto Rican High School). Developing from the riots, these organizations' members were younger and more militant than earlier organizations such as the Caballeros de San Juan, Damas de María and the Puerto Rican Congress. They worked to get community concerns such as education, housing, health, and employment addressed by the city and to assert a Puerto Rican presence in city politics.

References

Puerto Rican culture in Chicago
Racially motivated violence against Hispanic and Latino Americans
History of Chicago
Riots and civil disorder in Chicago
Race riots in the United States
1966 in Illinois
1966 riots
June 1966 events in the United States
Stateside Puerto Rican riots in the United States