[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bowoto v. Chevron Corp.

motion to dismiss the claims under the Torture Victim Protection Act and the Alien Tort Claims Act. However, the court allowed the international law claim of crimes against humanity to go forward temporarily.  On August 13, 2007, however, Judge Illston dismissed the claim of crimes against humanity.

In March 2007, the court granted Chevron's motion for summary judgment on the plaintiffs' RICO claim. To win a RICO claim, the plaintiffs needed to show (1) conduct, (2) of an enterprise, (3) through a pattern, (4) of racketeering activity.  The court found that the plaintiffs did not satisfy the first element; although they provided evidence that a significant amount of the oil extracted in Nigeria was exported to the United States, the plaintiffs did not provide enough evidence that the two incidents underlying this litigation or Chevron's treatment of the local communities had any impact on the U.S. economy.

On December 1, 2008, the jury delivered a complete defense verdict for Chevron. On September 10, 2010, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a jury verdict in favor of Chevron Corporation.

Legal implications 

Legal regulation of multinational corporations is difficult because they are not under the control of any one jurisdiction. Rather, they are subject to multiple legal systems, including the country of their corporate headquarters as well as the countries in which they operate. There is no international oversight body to regulate multinational corporations, or an international forum in which suit may be brought against multinational corporations. It can be difficult for domestic courts to hold multinational corporations responsible for jurisdictional reasons or because the particular government lacks the legal infrastructure to impose liability. An example of a jurisdictional shortcoming in the United States is the difficulty of piercing the corporate veil.  It can be extremely difficult to hold a parent company liable for acts committed by its subsidiary. Bowoto v. Chevron Corp. is an example of the difficulties in suing a multinational corporation for alleged violations of human rights, and perhaps the need for more formal regulation and accountability of multinational corporations.

References

External links 
 Bowoto v. Chevron Trial Blog 
 Justice in Nigeria Now 
 EarthRights International 
 Center for Constitutional Rights 
 Chevron 

United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit cases
United States District Court for the Northern District of California cases
Chevron Corporation
Alien Tort Statute case law
Nigeria–United States relations
United States District Court case articles without infoboxes
2008 in United States case law