[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Academia Europaea

Sciences
History & Archaeology
Informatics
Law
Linguistic Studies
Literary & Theatrical Studies
Mathematics
Musicology & History of Art & Architecture
Organismic and Evolutionary Biology
Philosophy, Theology & Religious Studies
Physics and Engineering Sciences
Physiology and Medicine
Social Sciences

It elects members from 47 Council of Europe states in recognition of their academic achievements. Election to the membership has been celebrated by several institutions as an honor each year. Elected members are entitled to the post-nominal letters MAE.
Assisted by the SAM secretariat, the Academia works together with All European Academies, European Academies Science Advisory Council, Euro-CASE and the Federation of European Academies of Medicine in a consortium called Science Advice for Policy by European Academies (SAPEA). SAPEA pulls together scientific expertise from the pan-European Academia and more than 100 European national academies from over 40 countries, collectively providing independent policy advice to the European Commissioners.
The Academia serves as official advisor to the European Union under the Scientific Advice Mechanism.

Award and prizes
 Membership of the Academia Europaea is awarded annually to selected scientists
Erasmus Medal Lecture is a highlight of the year of the Academia Europaea. It is awarded to honor individual European scholarship and achievements over a sustained period.
 The Academia Europaea Burgen Scholarships provide recognition to younger European scholars, at the post-doctoral level, who are emerging talents and possible potential future leaders in their fields.
 The Russian Prizes for young scientists and scholars in Russia.
 The Gold Medal of the Academia Europaea is awarded to non-members of the Academia and to organizations in recognition of the contribution made to European science through inspiration, public support, management expertise or by financial means.
 The Adam Kondorosi Academia Europaea Award recognizes landmark research in symbiosis and related fields that has changed our understanding and made a significant scientific impact.

Publications
The Academia Europaea has published European Review (ER) since 1993 on behalf of members and in conjunction with the Cambridge University Press (since 1998). ER is a quarterly, peer reviewed and international journal.

Editorial control is in the hands of an independent board. European Review publishes articles and reviews that will be of broad interest to an intellectual readership, world-wide. Contributions come from academics, professionals and those in public life and address multi, and interdisciplinary issues across the sciences arts, humanities and Letters. European Review provides the AE with a vehicle for publication of articles from sponsored conferences and workshops. The editorial board invites specific contributions and reviews from opinion leaders world-wide. European Review has become available fully on-line.

Offices
The registered office and headquarters of the Academia Europaea is based in London. This is also the location of the General Secretariat.

In collaboration with local and regional partners, the Academia Europaea has established a number of regional hubs:
 The Academia Europaea Wrocław Knowledge Hub – operational since January 2012 with focus on: knowledge activities, including international events, summer schools, lecture series and high-level expert panes and 'Emeritus' scholarship; support to Central and Eastern European scholars.
 The Academia Europaea Barcelona Knowledge Hub – operational since January 2013 with focus on the promotion of multidisciplinary scientific activities that include the perspective of the social sciences and the humanities.
 The Academia Europaea Bergen Knowledge Hub – operational since spring 2014 with focus on Northern Seas related Resources – Opportunities – Challenges Advancing Europe's Northern Seas Dimension.
The Academia Europaea Cardiff Knowledge Hub – operational since summer 2016 with focus to strengthen pan-European scientific collaboration and infrastructure across all disciplines.
The Academia Europaea Tbilisi Knowledge Hub – operational since spring 2019 with focus to improve the access and use of European scientific achievements for the national and regional policy-making, and to promote education, science and scientific research through collaboration with leading international agencies.
Graz Information Centre – founded in 2010 is responsible for the development and application of the nomination system and membership administration and registration.

See also 
The Academia Europaea is not to be confused with the European Academy of Sciences and Arts or the European Academy of Sciences.

References

External links 

 
Educational organizations based in Europe
International academies
Science and technology in Europe
Pan-European learned societies
Scientific organizations established in 1988