[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United Nations Conference on the Human Environment

s they wish but must not endanger others
 Compensation is due to states thus endangered
 Each nation must establish its own standards
 There must be cooperation on international issues
 International organizations should help to improve the environment
 Weapons of mass destruction must be eliminated

One of the seminal issues that emerged from the conference is the recognition for poverty alleviation for protecting the environment. The Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in her seminal speech in the conference brought forward the connection between ecological management and poverty alleviation.

The Stockholm Conference motivated countries around the world to monitor environmental conditions as well as to create environmental ministries and agencies. Despite these institutional accomplishments, including the establishment of UNEP, the failure to implement most of its action programme has prompted the UN to have follow-up conferences.  The succeeding United Nations Conference on Environment and Development convened in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 (the Rio Earth Summit), the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg and the 2012 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) all take their starting point in the declaration of the Stockholm Conference.

Some argue that this conference, and more importantly the scientific conferences preceding it, had a real impact on the environmental policies of the European Community (that later became the European Union). For example, in 1973, the EU created the Environmental and Consumer Protection Directorate, and composed the first Environmental Action Program. Such increased interest and research collaboration arguably paved the way for further understanding of global warming, which has led to such agreements as the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement, and has given a foundation of modern environmentalism.

50 years after 
In 2022 a report called "Stockholm+50: Unlocking a Better Future" was published by a team of scientists, analyzing the changes made from the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in 1972 and giving recommendations for the future. The key messages are; "Redefine the relationship between humans and nature, achieve lasting prosperity for all, and invest in a better future." In addition, youth researchers issued a youth version of the report, called: "Charting a Youth Vision for a Just and Sustainable Future" also making some recommendations. The key messages are: "Health well being and communal solidarity, living in harmony with nature, international solidarity-living as one global family, a world when all humans are equal."

See also
 Earth Summit 1992
 Earth Summit 2002
 Johannesburg Declaration
 Habitat International Coalition
 United Nations Climate Change Conference 2009
 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development
 Minamata and Minamata disease
 World Environment Day

References

Further reading
David Larsson Heidenblad. 2021. The Environmental Turn in Postwar Sweden: A New History of Knowledge. Lund University Press.
John McCormick, The Global Environmental Movement (London: John Wiley, 1995).
Schulz-Walden, Thorsten (2013): Anfänge globaler Umweltpolitik. Umweltsicherheit in der internationalen Politik (1969–1975), Oldenbourg Verlag, München,  [Rezension bei: Thorsten Schulz-Walden: Anfänge globaler Umweltpolitik. Umweltsicherheit in der internationalen Politik (1969–1975). München 2013. - H-Soz-u-Kult / Comptes rendus / Livres]
Felix Dodds, Maurice Strong and Michael Strauss Only One Earth: The Long Road via Rio to Sustainable Development (London, Earthscan, 2012)

External links

 
 Introductory note by Günther Handl, procedural history note and audiovisual material on the Declaration of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm Declaration) in the Historic Archives of the United Nations Audiovisual Library of International Law
 Report from the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment held in Stockholm, 1972

1972 conferences
1972 in Sweden
1972 in the environment
20th-century diplomatic conferences
21st-century diplomatic conferences (UN)
Diplomatic conferences in Sweden
United Nations conferences
1972 in the United Nations
Events in Stockholm
1970s in Stockholm
United Nations conferences on the environment
June 1972 events in Europe
Sweden and the United Nations