[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Charles Shaw (British Army officer)

The Defence of Duffer's Drift. In these he advocated the used of 'rifle batteries' consisting of 12-20 rifle barrels that could be operated by one or two men, using the analogy of mechanical looms that did the work of many weavers. These 'rifle batteries' seem to prefigure the later Nordenfeldt gun.

In later life, Shaw lived at Bad Homberg, Germany, where he died in February 1871. As a holder of the Waterloo Medal he was buried with military honours, his funeral attended by French and Prussian officers.

Personality and appearance
During the siege of Oporto, a British resident described Shaw as ‘A fervid Liberal of the old Covenanter type ...  fired by Dom Pedro's anti-absolutist crusades’. A British volunteer was amused by the Portuguese soldiers' long beards, but Shaw's ‘quite eclipsed all of them, being of enormous length, and as fiery in appearance as the tail of a comet’. No likeness of Shaw appears to have survived.

Notes

References
Personal Memoirs and Correspondence of Colonel Charles Shaw, K.C.T.S., &c, of the Portuguese Service and late Brigadier-General, in the British Auxiliary Legion of Spain; Comprising a Narrative of the War for Constitutional Liberty in Portugal and Spain, from its Commencement in  1831 to the Dissolution of the British Legion in 1837 (2 Vols. London 1837).  Volume II
C. P. Hawkes and M. F. Smithes, Siege Lady: The adventures of Mrs. Dorothy Procter of Entre Quintas and of divers other notable persons during the siege of Oporto and the War of the Two Brothers in Portugal, 1832-1834, (London, 1938).
Admiral Charles Napier, An account of the War in Portugal between Don Pedro and Don Miguel,  2 Vols (London, 1836).
Maj-Gen Elers Napier, The Life and Correspondence of Admiral Sir Charles Napier, 2 Vols (London, 1862; reprinted 2001 and 2007).
‘A British Officer of Hussars’ [Hugh Owen], ‘’The Civil War in Portugal and the Siege of Oporto’’ (London, 1836; reprinted 2009).
Alexander Somerville History of the British Legion and War in Spain (London, 1839).
Alexander Tolmer, Reminiscences of an Adventurous and Chequered Career at Home and at the Antipodes, (London, 1882).
The Annals of Manchester: A chronological record from the earliest times to the end of 1885 Edited by William E. A. Axon. 1886. Manchester Central Library, Salford Local History Library.

1794 births
1871 deaths
Scottish military personnel
Scottish knights
Alumni of the University of Aberdeen
Alumni of the University of Edinburgh
52nd Regiment of Foot officers
Cameronians officers
British generals
Portuguese generals
Knights Bachelor
British Army personnel of the Napoleonic Wars
British Auxiliary Legion personnel
Laureate Cross of Saint Ferdinand
Military personnel of the Liberal Wars
Recipients of the Waterloo Medal
British police chiefs
People from Ayr