[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jordi Gené

made contact with Rickard Rydell who then hit Gené and Farfus. He had to sacrifice his position in race two of the Race of Japan in order to benefit championship contender Tarquini. He finished off the season at the Race of Macau with a podium in race one and was eighth in the drivers' championship.

SR–Sport (2010)
Following the withdrawal of the works SEAT outfit at the end of 2009, in January 2010 it was confirmed that he would partner Gabriele Tarquini, Tiago Monteiro and Tom Coronel in the SEAT supported SR–Sport team, run by SUNRED Engineering. He was the best SEAT driver in qualifying by lining up second, he finished seventh in the first race and second in the second race. At the Race of Belgium he passed teammate Gabriele Tarquini at the start of the first race but he was under investigation after it appeared he had been ahead of Tarquini at the rolling start. Gené went on to take the victory but was later disqualified for a technical infringement, handing Tarquini the win. He did not finish either of the races at the Race of Portugal due to punctures. He was caught out by a first lap crash in race one of the Race of the Czech Republic which also forced teammate Tom Coronel to retire while a number of other drivers continued with minor damage. He was replaced at the Race of Japan by SEAT León Eurocup racer Michaël Rossi. He did not return after that and he finished the season twelfth in the drivers' standings.

Scandinavian Touring Car Championship
Gené moved to the Scandinavian Touring Car Championship in 2012, driving a Volkswagen Scirocco for Volkswagen Team Biogas. His best result was a second place at Åre Östersund Airport, he finished seventh in the drivers' championship while teammate Johan Kristoffersson won the championship.

Truck racing
Gené's career took a completely different path in 1998, when he accepted Manuel Santos Marcos' invitation to drive the Cepsa MAN in the European Truck Racing Cup. However, in spite of spending two years in truck racing, he achieved no notable results and went back to cars full-time in 2000.

Sportscars
Gené entered the 24 Hours of Le Mans, racing in the LMP675 category in a Volkswagen-powered Reynard for Noel Del Bello's ROC team, and also took part in the Spanish GT Championship in a Porsche. In 2001, Gené remained with ROC and took the Reynard-VW to a class win at Le Mans, also climbing to 5th place overall. The team's Reynard-VW also took part in the European Le Mans Series, winning the 500km Most in the LMP675 class. At the end of the year, Gené returned to touring cars by taking part in the 24 Hours of Barcelona, where he drove the winning Volkswagen Golf.

Gené also co-drove the SEAT Toledo GT car in the Spanish GT, winning the title in 2003 with Gines Vivancos, but in 2004, the new SEAT Cupra GT was not so competitive.

Racing record

Complete International Formula 3000 results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races
in italics indicate fastest lap)

24 Hours of Le Mans results

Complete European Touring Car Championship results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

Complete World Touring Car Championship results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

† — Did not finish the race, but was classified as he completed over 90% of the race distance.

Complete Scandinavian Touring Car Championship results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

Complete TCR International Series results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

Complete World Touring Car Cup results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

References

External links

 
 

1970 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Sabadell
Catalan racing drivers
Formula Ford drivers
British Formula Three Championship drivers
World Touring Car Championship drivers
TC 2000 Championship drivers
24 Hours of Le Mans drivers
International Formula 3000 drivers
International GT Open drivers
European Touring Car Championship drivers
TCR International Series drivers
Audi Sport TT Cup drivers
24H Series drivers
World Touring Car Cup drivers
BMW M drivers
Nordic Racing drivers
Nürburgring 24 Hours drivers
Cupra Racing drivers
Zengő Motorsport drivers
Engstler Motorsport drivers
Craft-Bamboo Racing drivers
Spanish racing drivers
TCR Italian Touring Car Championship drivers