[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1st United States Sharpshooters

ady hands and a great deal of training and skill with a rifle. In addition to that, for a man to be a Sharpshooter, it took cool nerves in order to be able to estimate their target carefully, determine the high trajectory needed and to take in consideration the effect that any current wind may have.

Weapons
The men of the Sharpshooters regiment were armed with various types of rifles, including the Sharps rifle, the Whitworth rifle, sporting arms, and various other custom-made privately owned target weapons. Some of these rifles weighed up to  because they contained the first breed of telescope sights. At first, many of the Sharpshooter riflemen used their own weapons, but this led to problems when it came to ammunition supply. As a result, Berdan made a request to receive issuance of Sharps rifles to his men.

Christian Sharps invented the Sharps rifle in 1848 in Hartford, Connecticut. It was a single shot percussion lock breech loader that could be fired eight to ten times per minute (three times the rate of the Springfield rifle), weighed about , was  in length with a  barrel and fired cartridges with a .52 caliber conical ball. The Sharps rifle was accurate up to , so the typical Sharpshooter was able to put twenty bullets in a  pattern from  away. The first Sharps rifle in the regiment was purchased by Private Truman "California Joe" Head while the regiment was at the camp of instruction outside Washington, D.C. during the winter of 1861-1862.

Berdan chose the Sharps rifle mainly because of its fast breech loading and outstanding accuracy from long-range distances. Lieutenant General Winfield Scott denied Berdan's request because he feared the issuance of Sharps rifles would lead to a waste of ammunition. Lt. General Scott insisted that Berdan's men use a standard Springfield rifle. Berdan was not at all satisfied with Scott's ruling, so he took his request for Sharps rifles directly to President Abraham Lincoln. After Lincoln watched Berdan perform a demonstration of the Sharps rifle's extreme speed and accuracy he was so impressed that he ordered them to be immediately issued to both Sharpshooter regiments. Nevertheless, many of the men still continued to use their own rifles, no matter how heavy and bulky they were, probably because that is what they had training and experience with. The sharpshooters were finally issued their Sharps rifles on May 8, 1862.

Uniform

The most notable aspect of the Berdan Sharpshooter uniform is the green color, rather than the standard Union blue. They were one of only a few regiments that went outside the typical Potomac Army's uniform. The green uniform gave the sharpshooters the clear advantage of camouflage, but also sometimes was a disadvantage because they were easy to distinguish against the rest of the Union soldiers for Confederate marksmen to spot and target. Sharpshooters were high-priority kills amongst the Confederate army, because they had such high skills and good salvageable equipment. Sharpshooters used more guerrilla warfare battle tactics than the rest of the Union infantry. Along with the green uniform, a soldier was to have no brass on any of their buttons.  Their shoes were standard Union issue, but their pants were made of green wool just like the frock coats, with a pair of gaiters.  Furthermore, Sharpshooter knapsacks were a Prussian-style fur sack fitted over a wooden frame, as opposed to the usual tarred canvas. However, as the war went on the men were not reissued this clothing and many of the men received standard federal clothing making it harder for rebel troops to notice their elite capabilities. By the Gettysburg campaign most of the men were wearing modified blue uniforms.

Total strength and casualties
Ten of the regiment's officers and 143 enlisted men were killed in action or mortally wounded and 1 officer and 128 enlisted men died of disease, for a total of 282
casualties.

Lieutenant Colonel William Y. W. Ripley was wounded and later received the Medal of Honor for his heroism as second in command of the 1st U.S. Sharpshooters at the Battle of Malvern Hill.

See also
List of United States Volunteer Civil War units
2nd United States Sharpshooters
Company G, 1st United States Sharpshooters
1st Battalion New York Volunteer Sharpshooters
1st Company Massachusetts Sharpshooters
2nd Company Massachusetts Sharpshooters

Notes

References
The Civil War Archive
Sid Sidlo, "The Sharpshooter and His Weapon", The Cleveland Civil War Roundtable, 2008
Berdan's Sharpshooters
Company B - 1st Regiment U.S.S.S. (United States Sharp Shooters), reenactors
Guide to the Caspar Trepp Papers, 1858-1863
“Sharpshooters Made a Grand Record This Day” - Timothy J. Orr

Further reading 
 Stevens, Charles Augustus. Berdan's United States sharpshooters in the Army of the Potomac, 1861-1865. Saint Paul, Minnesota: 1892.

External links
 The Correspondence of Benjamin Shreve Calef at Dartmouth College Library