[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Robert Fico

s within the EU (the former head of the Czech Social Democratic Party, Jiří Paroubek, being a notable exception), Fico sought to strengthen relations with several non-EU countries such as Serbia and Russia. This broke with a pro-NATO, Western-focused trend established after the 1998 Slovak election.

After coming to power in 2006, Fico declared that Slovakia's relations with Russia would improve after eight years of "neglect." Fico referred to "Slavonic solidarity," which was a central theme of the Slovak National Awakening in the 1850s. On April 4, 2008, during a visit by Russian Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov, Fico said: "In Slovakia, there have been efforts to deliberately ignore Slavonic solidarity." Slovakia modernised Russian MiG fighters in Russia and did not buy new jets from the West. Additionally, Fico accused Georgia of provoking Russia when attacking South Ossetia in the 2008 Russia–Georgia war. Under his premiership, the Slovak foreign ministry rejected the Crimean referendum which incorporated Crimea into Russia. Fico himself, however, remained silent on the issue. In 2023, Fico iterated the stance that Crimean annexation was done in violation of international law. Simultaneously, he stated that the Ukrainian recapture of Crimea would not solve the Russo-Ukrainian War. Regarding the EU sanctions against Russia in 2014, Fico denounced them as "senseless," and a "threat to the Slovak economy." He condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, but was also critical towards European sanctions against Russia, arguing that the sanctions improve Russian autarky, practically only harm the Russian population and not the regime, and that they harm European people.

On 29 August 2022, during the celebration of the Slovak National Uprising, Fico invited the Russian diplomat Igor Bratchikov to speak on the stage. This was done despite the fact that Russia has put Slovakia on its unfriendly countries list during the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Hungary 

Tension between Slovakia and Hungary, unstable from the past, was inflamed in 2006 following the parliamentary election and Fico's decision to include nationalist Ján Slota and his Slovak National Party into his governing coalition. Slota was known for his fierce anti-Hungarian rhetoric, including that "Hungarians are a tumor on the Slovak nation that needs to be immediately removed." In the wake of the election several incidents occurred which further inflamed nationalist sentiment on both sides, including the alleged beating of a Hungarian woman in South Slovakia. Fico reacted by condemning the extremism, but rebuked the Hungarian government by declaring "The Slovak government doesn't need to be called on to strike against extremism."  The row heated up again in September 2007, when Fico's government introduced a law making the Beneš decrees inviolable. This was in response to demands from ethnic Hungarian politicians that compensations should be made to persons affected by the decrees.

In May 2008, Fico labelled Hungary a potential threat during a speech commemorating the 161st anniversary of the day that Slovaks demanded national equality with other nations within the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. Fico used the anniversary to openly criticise the political situation in Hungary and warn about the influence it might have on Slovakia. Especially he warned against the Hungarian right-wing politician Viktor Orbán, and his party Fidesz, which he called an "extreme nationalist party." Since then, however, relations between the two countries have slightly improved.

By 2022, Fico's relationship with Orbán's government in Hungary had warmed considerably. In 2022, Fico welcomed Orbán's re-election in Hungary, praising his nationalistic approach and stance on the Russo-Ukrainian war. Similarly, Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó welcomed Fico's return to office in 2023, noting "Robert Fico has the same views on the war, migration and gender issues as us".

Ukraine
In response to Russian invasion of Ukraine, Fico was opposed to supplying arms and ammunitions through Slovak territory. He also opposed Ukrainian membership in NATO and argued that accession of Ukraine to the European Union by 2025 was an unrealistic scenario.

Fico said that sending more and more weapons to Ukraine has only encouraged more killings and endless war, and instead efforts should be made to reach a cease-fire and push Russia and Ukraine toward peace talks. In September 2023, he stated in an interview: "Why don't we force the warring parties, use the weight of the EU and the U.S. to make them sit down and find some sort of compromise that would guarantee security for Ukraine?" He praised the peace plans to end the war put forward by the Vatican, Brazil and China. Fico said Slovakia will continue to help Ukraine in a humanitarian way and his government will do everything possible to start peace talks.