[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

Jail are all burned by Irregulars prior to the arrival of Free State Forces. The National Army followed up with raids on the houses of known Irregulars living in Castlebar. Five Irregulars were arrested. A contingent of Irregulars retreat to Ballinrobe.
The County Mayo towns of Ballyhaunis and Balla are captured without incident. The townspeople of Ballyhaunis disarm one of the Irregulars and turn out in their hundreds to greet the National Army troops entering the town. 
26 July – Free State troops, 350 men under Jerry Ryan, take Golden, County Tipperary.
27 July – 
A contingent of the Dublin Brigade advance from Castlebar to Ballina. There is an exchange of fire before the Irregulars abandon the town. National Army troops occupy the workhouse, which is transformed into a makeshift barracks.
The Providence Wollen Mills in Foxford, County Mayo are closed, rendering 300 men and women unemployed.
Anti-Treaty IRA under Padraig Quinn attack Dundalk and dynamite the prison wall and in fifteen minutes the well-timed operation results in the freeing of Republican prisoners, including Frank Aiken. In an ambush at nearby Castletown Cross, two Free State soldiers are wounded, one fatally.
The Marconi radio station in Westport is burnt by Irregulars.
Irregulars end their three-week occupation of Ballaghaderreen, County Roscommon. Before they left, they burnt down the local barracks and destroyed the bridges surrounding the town. At one point, up to 200 Irregulars occupied the town, forcibly procuring supplies from the townspeople.
Two Free State soldiers are killed in ambushes in Galway.
Oscar Traynor, commander of the Anti-Treaty IRA's Dublin Brigade, is arrested by Free State troops in Dublin.
Three National Army soldiers were killed in fighting near Kilmallock. Republican casualties were not reported.
28 July – 
Ambush of National Army troops by Anti-Treaty IRA at Tonduff, Abbeyleix, on the main road to Maryborough, County Laois. A mine is exploded and fire is exchanged, Vol. Grace from Mountrath is killed while retrieving his rifle from the road. Brigadier Mick Gray is wounded. In the rounding up operation, 21 Republicans are taken prisoner but two Free State officers, Comdt. General Austin McCurtin and Comdt. Seán (Jack) Collison are killed on 4 August 1922.
The National Army in Dublin issue a statement reporting that Tuam, Newport and Westport are now under the control of the Free State. Over one hundred prisoners held by Irregulars have been released. The message also reported that in Glenties, County Donegal, an Irregular disguised as a priest had lured National Army troops into an ambush resulting in the deaths of two Free State volunteers.
Two Free State soldiers are killed in an ambush on the road from Killorglin to Tralee in Kerry.
29 July – 
About 400 Republicans attack Golden, County Tipperary, but fail to take it and two of their men are killed. Their armoured car is knocked out by artillery and the National Army takes 26 prisoners.
In County Mayo, Comdt-General Lawlor and Col.-Comdt Reynolds arrive in Ballina and they are greeted by enthusiastic crowds. Numerous arrests of Irregulars are made throughout Ballina.
30 July – Free State troops take Bruree, County Limerick. The Dublin Guard, supported by artillery, attacks the village for five hours before the Anti-Treaty IRA retreats. At least 13 Free State soldiers and nine Anti-Treaty fighters are killed in the action and more are wounded.
Two Free State soldiers are killed in a skirmish in County Mayo.
30 July – Free State troops raid on a public house owned by Mrs Maria Dowling, Blackmill Street, Kilkenny. Samuel Oakes aged 17 was fatally wounded when shot by the military. Eleven young men were arrested at the scene. 
31 July – Anti-Treaty activist Harry Boland is shot by Free State troops as he is being arrested in Skerries, near Dublin. He dies on 2 August.
Free State troops under Paddy O'Connor attack Republican held Tipperary town. Fighting continues for two days, in which four Free State troops are killed and three wounded. Forty-four Republican prisoners are taken.
Free State general Seán Mac Eoin reports to Michael Collins, "In the Midlands Divisions all posts and positions of military value are in our hands."
Two Free State soldier are killed in an ambush at Sugnagillow, County Donegal.
Late July – Anti-Treaty IRA in Dublin ambushes and destroys an armoured train in Inchicore.
Anti-Treaty IRA in Raheen, County Limerick ambushes Free State troops – two Colonels killed; 2nd Lt Michael Joe Costello and another officer turn ambush which results in capture of 30 of ambushers. Costello is promoted by Michael Collins to Colonel-Commandant at the age of 18.
Two Free State troops are killed in an ambush at Sugnagillow, County Donegal. Another two are killed near Newport, County Mayo.

August 1922