[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Energy policy of India

ad/ demand perfectly and work as base load power plants when the  extracted solar energy is found excess in a day. Proper mix of solar thermal and solar PV can fully match the load fluctuations without the need of costly battery storage.

Synergy with irrigation water pumping and hydropower stations

The major disadvantage of solar power (PV type only) is that it can not produce electricity during the nighttime and cloudy daytime also. In India, this disadvantage can be overcome by installing pumped-storage hydroelectricity stations to store the surplus electricity generated during the daytime for meeting the demand during the night hours. In addition to harnessing most of the water resources, the embankment canals originating from the coastal reservoirs would also be envisaged with pumped-storage hydroelectricity features to store the surplus electricity available during the daytime and reconvert to electricity during the nighttime. This is achieved by utilizing all the usable river waters by interlinking Indian rivers and envisaging coastal reservoirs. Also, all existing and future hydropower stations can be expanded with additional pumped-storage hydroelectricity units to cater nighttime electricity consumption. Most of the groundwater pumping power can be met directly by solar power during the daytime. To achieve food security, India needs to achieve water security which is possible only by energy security for harnessing its water resources.

Electric vehicles

The retail prices of petrol and diesel are high in India to make electricity driven vehicles more economical as more and more electricity is generated from solar energy in near future without appreciable environmental effects. During the year 2018, many IPPs offered to sell solar power below 3.00 Rs/kWh to feed into the high voltage grid. This price is far below the affordable retail electricity tariff for the solar power to replace petrol and diesel use in transport sector.

The retail price of diesel is 101.00 Rs/liter in 2021–22, and the retail price of petrol was 110.00 ₹/liter. The affordable electricity retail price (860 kcal/kWh at 75% input electricity to shaft power conversion efficiency) to replace diesel (lower heating value 8572 kcal/liter at 40% fuel energy to crankshaft conversion efficiency) is up to 19 ₹/Kwh. The affordable electricity retail price (860 kcal/kWh at 75% input electricity to shaft power conversion efficiency) to replace petrol (lower heating value 7693 kcal/liter at 33% fuel energy to crankshaft conversion efficiency) is up to 28 ₹/Kwh. In 2021-22, India consumed 30.849 million tons of petrol and 76.687 million tons of diesel which are mainly produced from imported crude oil at huge foreign exchange outgo.

V2G is also feasible with electricity-driven vehicles for catering to the peak load in the electricity grid. Electricity-driven vehicles would become popular in the future when the energy storage / battery technology becomes more compact, lesser density, longer lasting, and maintenance-free.

Hydrogen energy

The green hydrogen roadmap is constantly evolving in India by consolidating various capabilities at institutional and research centers. 
The Hydrogen Energy program started in India after joining the IPHE (International Partnership for Hydrogen Economy) in
the year 2003. There are nineteen other countries including Australia, United States, UK, Japan, etc. This global partnership helps India to set up commercial use of Hydrogen gas as an energy source. India is already producing blue hydrogen from biomass using the petcoke gasifiers.

Hydrogen is a carbon neutral fuel. Solar electricity prices in India have already fallen below the affordable price (≈ INR 5.00 per kWh to generate 0.041 lb/kWh hydrogen which is equivalent to 0.071 litres of petrol in terms of lower heating value) to make hydrogen economical fuel by sourcing from electrolysis of water to replace petrol/gasoline as transport fuel. Vehicles with fuel cell technology based on hydrogen gas are nearly twice more efficient compared to diesel/petrol-fueled engines. Hydrogen can be generated cheaply by splitting methane using electricity without emitting any greenhouse gas and also extracted from wood gas produced from carbon-neutral biomass.  A luxury FCEV car generates one liter of bottled quality drinking water for every 10 km ride which is a significant byproduct. Also FCEV does not emit any particulate matter but removes particulate matter up to PM2.5 from the ambient air. Any medium or heavy duty vehicle can be retrofitted in to fuel cell vehicle as its system power density (watts/litre) and system specific power (watts/kg) are comparable with that of internal combustion engine. The cost and durability of fuel cell engines with economies of scale production line are comparable with the petrol/diesel engines.