[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Third Swedish Crusade

s first to Viborg and then to Sweden.

1295 
The attack on Kexholm is a killing blow against Novgorod, it is likely that the garrison that the Swedes defeated in 1294 consisted of Novgorodians and the ties between Ladoga Karelia and Novgorod are stronger than those between West Karelia and Novgorod.

Before the ice conditions allowed for Swedish reinforcements, an army from Novgorod stood in front of Kexholm. In the fortress, supplies soon ran out, and when starvation became too severe, the garrison makes a desperate attempt to break through the Novgorodian lines in which during the beginning the Swedes were victorious, but due to their exhaustion the defenders quickly fell along with their commander, Sigge Lake. Only two Swedes managed to escape, the others were killed or captured.

The news of the defeat at Kexholm probably did not create any major panic in Sweden. They were very satisfied with the recent years' successes in the east, which have radically strengthened Swedish self-esteem. However, the limit has not yet been reached for the Swedish expansion to the east and almost 30 years of war will be fought. The war would be waged with varying intensity. No source tells us anything about war events along Finland's eastern border during the period 1296 to 1299. It may therefore be reasonable to assume that the fighting is down to the year 1300, when it begins again in full force.

Aftermath 
The Crusade led by Torkel Knutsson led to the Swedish border in Finland being extended father eastwards, with the Karelians defeated they began paying taxes to the Swedes and were Christianized.

See also
 First Swedish Crusade
 Second Swedish Crusade
 Northern Crusades

List of battles 

 Assault on Viborg - Swedish victory
 Assault on Kexholm - Swedish victory
 Siege of Kexholm - Novgorodian victory

References

Other sources
 Linna Martti, ed. 	(1989) Suomen Varhaiskeskiajan Lähteitä  	 (Historian Ystäväin liitto ry) ,

13th-century crusades
13th century in Sweden
13th century in Russia
Northern Crusades
1293 in Europe

Wars involving Sweden
Wars involving the Novgorod Republic
Conflicts in 1293
Conflicts in 1294
Conflicts in 1295
1294 in Europe
1295 in Europe