[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# March 1973

ing from their base at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.
Born: Alexander Kushaev, Russian film and television producer; in Moscow, Soviet Union
Died: Ron "Pigpen" McKernan, 27, American musician and founding member of the Grateful Dead, died of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage as a consequence of alcoholism.

March 9, 1973 (Friday)
 
Operation End Sweep, the minesweeping exercise carried out by the United States Navy and United States Marine Corps to remove naval mines from Haiphong harbor and other coastal and inland waterways in North Vietnam, exploded its first and only mine to during the operation, although it did remove other mines in the harbors. A Pentagon spokesman said that many of the several thousand mines that had been dropped ten months earlier in 1972 "had gone inert and lay harmless on the sea floor."
At Oberstdorf in West Germany, Heinz Wossipiwo of East Germany broke the record for longest ski jump, landing  from takeoff from the Heini-Klopfer-Skiflugschanze. Walter Steiner of Switzerland flew even further, touching down at  but crashing, preventing him from recognition of a new record. Two days later, Steiner would leap  and crash. 

The members of the rock band KISS gave their first performance in the makeup and iconic character designs that would become their trademark. The band had played in face makeup in their debut concert on January 30, but reworked the format for their two-night performance at The Daisy, a bar in Amityville, New York.
Born: Danny Green, Australian professional boxer, WBC super-middleweight champion 2003-2005 and WBA light-heavyweight champion 2007–2008; in Perth, Western Australia

March 10, 1973 (Saturday)
Sir Richard Sharples, 56, Governor of Bermuda, was assassinated while walking with his aide-de-camp, Captain Hugh Sayers of the Welsh Guards, and his dog. Both men and the dog were ambushed and shot to death outside of Sharples's residence at Government House in Hamilton. Seven months later, Erskine "Buck" Burrows would confess to the shooting after being arrested; Burrows also admitted to having murdered, on September 9, 1972, Bermuda Police Commissioner George Duckett. Burrows would be hanged on December 2, 1977, after being convicted of multiple murders.
Ephraim Katzir, a biophysicist at Harvard University in the U.S., was elected to a five-year term as President of Israel, with the members of the Knesset voting 66 to 41 in his race against Rabbi Ephraim Urbach. Katzir, who was known outside of Israel by his birth name of Ephraim Katchalski, took office on May 24 to succeed Zalman Shazar. 
Attorney Charles Colson resigned as Director of the White House Office of Public Liaison to return to private practice, after serving as the "hatchet man" for U.S. President Nixon. In 1974, Colson would be indicted and convicted on charges of obstruction of justice in connection with the cover-up of evidence connecting the White House to the Watergate burglary.  While awaiting trial, he would become an evangelical Christian.
Born: Liu Qiangdong, Chinese internet entrepreneur and billionaire who founded the service JD.com to sell and deliver products to online customers; in Suqian, Jiangsu province
Died: 
Evelyn Baring, Baron Howick, 69, British colonial official who served as Governor of Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) 1942 to 1944 and Governor of Kenya 1952 to 1959.
General Li Mi, 70, Nationalist Chinese officer who had fought in the Chinese Civil War against the Communist Chinese