[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Indigenous Aryanism

hip. According to Michael Witzel, the "indigenous Aryans" position is not scholarship in the usual sense, but an "apologetic, ultimately religious undertaking":

In her review of Bryant's The Indo-Aryan Controversy, which includes chapters by Elst and other "indigenists", Stephanie Jamison comments:

Sudeshna Guha, in her review of The Indo-Aryan Controversy, notes that the book has serious methodological shortcomings, by not asking the question what exactly constitutes historical evidence. This makes the "fair and adequate representation of the differences of opinion" problematic, since it neglects "the extent to which unscholarly opportunism has motivated the rebirth of this genre of 'scholarship. Guha:

According to Bryant, OIT proponents tend to be linguistic dilettantes who either ignore the linguistic evidence completely, dismiss it as highly speculative and inconclusive, or attempt to tackle it with hopelessly inadequate qualifications; this attitude and neglect significantly minimises the value of most OIT publications.

Fosse notes crucial theoretical and methodological shortcomings in the indigenist literature. Analysing the works of Sethna, Bhagwan Singh, Navaratna and Talageri, he notes that they mostly quote English literature, which is not fully explored, and omitting German and French Indology. It makes their works in various degrees underinformed, resulting in a critique that is "largely neglected by Western scholars because it is regarded as incompetent".

According to Erdosy, the indigenist position is part of a "lunatic fringe" against the mainstream migrationist model.

See also

 Dravidian culture
Indo-Aryans
 Indo-Iranians
 Indo-Aryan migrations
Politics
 Historiography and nationalism
 Saffronisation
 NCERT controversy
Indigenists
 Voice of Dharma
 N. S. Rajaram
 David Frawley
 Subhash Kak
Books
 The Arctic Home in the Vedas (1903)
 In Search of the Cradle of Civilization
 Aryan Invasion of India: The Myth and the Truth (1993)
 Update on the Aryan Invasion Debate (1999)
 The Rigveda: A Historical Analysis (2000)
Other
Yamnaya culture

Notes

References

Sources

Printed sources

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 .
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 .
 .
 
 .
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Web-sources

Further reading

Overview
Edwin Bryant, a cultural historian, has given an overview of the various "Indigenist" positions in his PhD-thesis and two subsequent publications:
 
 
 

The Indigenous Aryan Debate and The Quest for the Origins of Vedic Culture are reports of his fieldwork, primarily interviews with Indian researchers, on the reception of the Indo-Aryan migration theory in India. The Indo-Aryan Controversy is a bundle of papers by various "indigenists", including Koenraad Elst, but also a paper by Michael Witzel.

Another overview has been given by Thomas Trautmann:
 
 

Literature by "indigenous Aryans" proponents
 
 
 Georg Feuerstein, Subhash Kak, David Frawley, In Search of the Cradle of Civilization: New Light on Ancient India Quest Books (IL) (October, 1995) 
 Lal, B. B. (2002), The Sarasvati flows on: The continuity of Indian culture, Aryan Books International, .
 Lal, B. B. (2015), The Rigvedic People: Invaders? Immigrants? or Indigenous?. See also Koenraad Elst, "Book Review: The Rig Vedic People Were Indigenous to India, Not Invaders"
 
 N. S. Rajaram, The Politics of History: Aryan Invasion Theory and the Subversion of Scholarship (New Delhi: Voice of India, 1995) .
 Talageri, S. G., The Rigveda: A Historical Analysis,  New Delhi: Aditya Prakashan, 2000   
 
 

Bharat
 

Criticism
 Shereen Ratnagar (2008), The Aryan homeland debate in India, in Philip L. Kohl, Mara Kozelsky, Nachman Ben-Yehuda "Selective remembrances: archaeology in the construction, commemoration, and consecration of national pasts", pp 349–378
 Suraj Bhan (2002), "Aryanization of the Indus Civilization" in Panikkar, KN, Byres, TJ and Patnaik, U (Eds), The Making of History, pp 41–55.
 

Other

External links

 Thapar, Romila: The Aryan question revisited (1999)
 Witzel, Michael: The Home of the Aryans
 Witzel, Horseplay at Harappa, Harvard University
 A tale of two horses – Frontline, 11–24 November 2000.
 Linda Hess, The Indigenous Aryan Discussion on RISA-L: The Complete Text (to 10/28/96)
 Thomas Trautmann (2005), The Aryan Debate: Introduction

Politics of India
Indology
Vedic period
History of India
Sanskrit
Evolution of language
Aryans
Indigenous Aryanism
Indo-Aryan peoples