[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Rubottom oxidation

ol 3-kinase (PI3K) cell signaling pathways. Their route to the collection of substrate analogs exploits a substrate-controlled stereoselective Rubottom oxidation using dimethyl dioxirane(DMDO) as the oxidant and catalytic camphorsulfonic acid (CSA) to aid in hydrolysis. For protecting groups see ref

Problems and shortcomings
While the Rubottom oxidation generally gives good yields and is highly scalable (see 2S-hydroxymutilin synthesis), there are still some problems with the reaction. As mentioned above, the acidic reaction conditions are not tolerated by many complex substrates, but this can be abrogated with the use of buffer systems. Poor atom economy is also a major issue with the reaction because it requires stoichiometric oxidant, which generates large amounts of waste.  Peroxides can also be dangerous to work with. mCPBA is known to detonate from shock or sparks.

α-Hydroxylation of related compounds
Although silyl enol ethers of aldehydes and ketones are the traditional substrates for the Rubottom oxidation, as mentioned above, silyl ketene acetals and bis (silyl acetals) can be oxidized to their α-hydroxy ester or carboxylic acid derivatives using lead(IV) acetate or hypofluorous acid-acetonitrile (HOF–ACN). However, these α-hydroxylations do not proceed via silyl enol ether intermediates and are therefore not technically Rubottom oxidations. Various oxidants can be used to oxidize many of these carbonyl derivatives after they are converted to their respective enolate or related anion. Some common oxidants are peroxy acids, molecular oxygen, and hypervalent iodine reagents.

References

Bibliography
Kürti, L.; Czakó, B. (2005) Strategic Applications of Named Reactions in Organic Synthesis, Elsevier, .
Li, J.J.  (2009) Name Reactions: A Collection of Detailed Mechanisms and Synthetic Applications, 4th Edition, Springer,

External links
Organic Chemistry Portal
Myers' Handouts

Organic oxidation reactions
Name reactions