[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sidney Weinberg

b in time of war.” Following Weinberg's success recruiting corporate talent for the Business Advisory and Planning Council, President Roosevelt entrusted Weinberg with an even more important mandate: forming the Industry Advisory Committee under the War Production Board’s Chairman, Donald M. Nelson.

Weinberg personally met with the CEOs of America’s top corporations and told them: “Our nation is in grave danger. America needs an enormous number of talented executive leaders to organize a massive war production effort. The President has sent me here to get your help in identifying your very best young men. We need the smartest young stars you’ve got. And don’t even think of passing off older men or second-raters. I’m asking the same thing of every major company in the country, and I’ll be watching very closely how well your men do compared to the best young men from all the other corporation. God forbid the people you pick are less than the best because God, President Roosevelt, and I would never, ever forgive you.”

In 1942, Weinberg was promoted to the position of assistant to the chairman of the War Production Board. General Motors CEO Charles Erwin Wilson said of Weinberg's service during this period: “His wide and influential friendships were invaluable in inducing outstanding men to come to Washington with us.”

Ford
Weinberg's position on the War Production Board helped him to forge close personal relationships with many of America's top young businessmen. When the war ended, many of these executives hired Weinberg as their investment banker, thereby boosting the prestige of Goldman Sachs’ client engagements. Many executives invited Weinberg to join their own companies’ boards. Weinberg served on the boards of many of America's leading blue chip companies, including those of Ford Motor Company, General Electric, Sears Roebuck, Continental Can, National Dairy Products Corporation, B.F. Goodrich Company, and General Foods Corporation.

Perhaps Weinberg's most important relationship from the War Production Board was with Henry Ford II, the eldest grandson of Henry Ford I. Following the death of his father Edsel Ford in 1943, Henry Ford II soon became president of Ford Motor Company – at that time America's largest private corporation. While enormous, Ford Motor Company faced considerable financial and strategic challenges transitioning from military manufacturing to a peacetime economy. Weinberg helped Ford to recruit a group of new executives including Ernie Breech and Theodore O. Yntema to revitalize the struggling automobile company. In return for Weinberg's advice, Ford chose Weinberg to lead the underwriting syndicate for Ford Motor Company's 1956 initial public offering. The Ford IPO was the largest the United States had ever seen, raising nearly seven hundred million dollars (roughly five billion dollars in today's terms), and considerably promoting Goldman Sachs’ position on Wall Street as a top investment bank.

Political influence
While a lifelong fundraiser for the Democratic Party, Weinberg supported the Republican candidate Dwight D. Eisenhower in his 1952 presidential bid; Weinberg's campaigning efforts were critical to gathering support for Eisenhower among the business community. In return for Weinberg's backing, Eisenhower appointed several of Weinberg's recommendations to important cabinet positions, including George M. Humphrey of M.A. Hanna Company for Treasury Secretary; Charles Erwin Wilson of General Motors for Secretary of Defense; and Robert T. Stevens of J.P. Stevens & Co. for Secretary of the Army. Likewise, after Weinberg helped Lyndon B. Johnson win the presidency in 1964, Johnson appointed Weinberg's recommendations of John T. Connor for Secretary of Commerce and Henry H. Fowler for Secretary of the Treasury.

Family
Weinberg married Helen Livingston in 1920 and the couple lived in Scarsdale, New York. They had two children, John Livingston Weinberg and Sidney J. "Jim" Weinberg, Jr., both of whom were partners of Goldman Sachs. His grandson John S. Weinberg was the company's vice chairman and another grandson Peter Weinberg was the company's head of European business before co-founding the boutique investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners.

Notes

External links
Biography on Goldman Sachs Website
Discussion of Weinberg's biography by Gladwell

1891 births
1969 deaths
Jewish American bankers
Jewish American military personnel
United States Navy personnel of World War I
Chairmen of Goldman Sachs
Chief Executive Officers of Goldman Sachs
People from Brooklyn
Businesspeople from Scarsdale, New York
20th-century American businesspeople
20th-century American Jews