[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Matthew Bryza

er 29, 2010, President Obama issued a recess appointment.  This recess appointment allowed Bryza to serve as a temporary ambassador.  He presented his credentials as ambassador to Azerbaijan on February 17, 2011, and served less than a year until January 3, 2012, when the recess appointment expired.

His nomination was opposed by Armenian-American lobbying groups, as well as the human rights group Reporters Without Borders. Armenian Americans raised conflict of interest concerns including reports that the then Azerbaijani Foreign Minister served as 1 of 3 groomsmen in Bryza's wedding,  although Bryza, at the time, was mediating a deadly conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan in his professional capacity as the U.S. Minsk Group Co Chair.  Reporters Without Borders raised concerns about the persecution of Azerbaijani reporters who reported that an Azerbaijani government minister partially paid for Bryza's wedding.  According to an article by Ganimat Zahid and Agil Khalil in the Azerbaijani newspaper Azadliq, the then Minister of Economic Development of Azerbaijan, Heydar Babayev, paid for a significant portion of Bryza’s wedding in Istanbul, Turkey. Both Zahid and Khalil were sued over their article and Azadliq correspondent Agil Khalil was the target of four murder attempts and had to flee to France.

Concerns were also raised over Bryza's incomplete responses to Senate inquiries.  In response to questions raised during his Senate confirmation process about the potential conflict of interest between his professional work and the Caucasus-related advocacy of his wife, Caspian energy expert Zeyno Baran, Bryza, asserted: “Since January 2009, she has conducted no conferences, briefings, studies or other official work related to the South Caucasus.”  However, there were numerous conferences and briefings where Baran spoke or testified on the South Caucasus after January 2009.

Washington Post editor Fred Hiatt, a powerful supporter of Bryza, described his departure as a "vivid example of how the larger U.S. national interest can fall victim to special-interest jockeying and political accommodation".  Hiatt criticized Senators for opposing Bryza's nomination.  A few months later, Bryza left the State Department to join the Azerbaijani-government affiliated Turcas petrol board.

Post foreign service career
Bryza works as a consultant on business and democratic development, and is a board member of several private companies in Turkey.  Within months of leaving the State Department after the Senate failed to confirm his nomination to be ambassador to Azerbaijan partly because of conflict of interest concerns, Bryza was appointed in June 2012 as a board member of Turcas Petrol, an affiliate of State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic (SOCAR), a fully state-owned national oil and gas company headquartered in Baku, Azerbaijan. Bryza is also a board member in NEQSOL holdings, an Azerbaijani energy and communications conglomerate.

Since March 1, 2012, Bryza has been director of the International Centre for Defense Studies, a Tallinn-based think tank.  In August 2012, he became a board member of the Jamestown Foundation.

Awards
Bryza was awarded with Fletcher Young Alumni Award in 2004, Order of the Golden Fleece, Georgia in 2009, Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana, Fourth Class, Republic of Estonia in 2010.

Personal life
His first marriage ended in divorce. On August 23, 2007, he married Zeyno Baran, from whom he has a daughter.  He lives with his family in Istanbul, Turkey.

Bryza is fluent in Polish and Russian, and also speaks German and Spanish, and conversational Azerbaijani.

References

External links

Ambassadors of the United States to Azerbaijan
Living people
Recess appointments
Recipients of the Order of the Golden Fleece (Georgia)
The Fletcher School at Tufts University alumni
Stanford University alumni
1964 births
American expatriates in Turkey
United States Foreign Service personnel
Recipients of the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana, 4th Class