[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International Holocaust Cartoon Competition

wish people, a tragic page of humanity's history, can only foster hatred and incite to violence, racism and anger. This contest goes against the universal values of tolerance and respect, and runs counter to the action led by UNESCO to promote Holocaust education, to fight anti-Semitism and denial."

Winners 
On May 31, 2016, French cartoonist Zeon was announced as the winner and received the first prize of US$12,000. The cartoonist was arrested by the French authorities back in March 2015 for his anti-Semitic work that he drew back in 2011. His winning work features what appears to be the entry gate of a Nazi-era death camp atop a cash register with six million in cash inside.

Indonesian artist Jitet Koestana won the second prize of US$7,000 while Mahmud Nazari from Iran won the third prize of US$5,000. In addition to the main prizes similar to the 2006 contest, there were also 'Special Prizes' awarded to several entries, in which each was awarded with three gold coins. One of these prizes went to Belgium, Morocco, Turkey and several other countries.

The Belgian winner, Luc Descheemaeker using the name O-sekoer, is a schoolteacher in a Catholic school in the Flemish city of Torhout. The school and the city felt very honored that he won a prize at that contest. Even the Flemish press took his defense towards Jewish organisations condemning the contest. The mayor of the city is the Flemish minister of education, Hilde Crevits who refused to condemn the cartoon. Descheemaeker was consequently nominated cultural ambassador of the city of Torhout. Meanwhile, other antisemitic cartoons drawn by him were discovered.

After the contest, the Iranian House of Cartoon and the Sarcheshmeh Cultural Complex announced another similar contest, this time calling for cartoon submissions on the  "Zionist Caliphate" that will focus on "Zionism, terrorism and racism" and "ISIL terrorism and genocide in the name of religion and to the benefit of the Zionists." The deadline for entries has been set for 16 June 2016, with the winners to be announced at a later date with cash prizes of up to US$5,000.

See also

Council for Spreading Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's Thoughts
Everybody Draw Mohammed Day
International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust
Israeli Anti-Semitic Cartoons Contest
The Eternal Jew (art exhibition)

References

External links
 The Winners of the Competition (mirror)
 The Iran Cartoon Organisation (Persian)
 The Iran Cartoon Organisation (English)

Holocaust Cartoon Competition
2006 controversies
Holocaust denial in Iran
Antisemitic works
Works about censorship
Events relating to freedom of expression
Antisemitic propaganda
Editorial cartoons
Holocaust denial
Antisemitism in Iran
Antisemitism in Asia
Antisemitism in the Middle East
Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy
Cartoon controversies