[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Herbert J. Gans

and architecture could solve the problems of poverty and low civic engagement.

His two collections of planning and social policy essays, People and Plans (1968) and People, Plans and Policies (1992) offered his most sustained criticism of spatial planning as a vehicle for significant social reform.

In his address as the 1988 president of the American Sociological Association, Gans urged the discipline to become more useful to and relevant for the general public.  In it, he used the term "public sociology," which twenty years later became the centerpiece of a reform movement within the discipline.  He also published a trio of articles on the sociology of sociology, later reprinted in his Making Sense of America (1999).

Still active as an emeritus professor, an adjunct professor, and a writer, in 2008 Gans published a new book on public policy and politics, Imagining America in 2033.  "The book describes the policies and political processes by which America overcame the economic, military and other disasters of the century's first decade and began to turn into a more democratic, egalitarian, peaceful and human society."

He has publicly opposed ROTC as being “in part a leadership training program for the killing of other people and the destruction of their societies.”

Publications 
The Balanced community (1961)
 
 People and Plans (1968)More Equality (1973)Popular Culture and High Culture (1974)Deciding What's News: A study of CBS evening news, NBC nightly news, Newsweek, and Time (1979)Middle American Individualism (1988)People, Plans, and Policies (1991)The War Against The Poor (1992)Making Sense of America (1999)Democracy and the News (2003)Imagining America in 2033: How the Country Put Itself Together After Bush'' University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor, 2009.

Terms coined
Symbolic ethnicity
Symbolic religiosity

References

External links
 Herbert Gans' biography at Columbia University
 Herbert J. Gans Award Statement
Herbert Gans Biography from American Sociological Association
Herbert J. Gans Online

1927 births
Living people
American sociologists
Presidents of the American Sociological Association
Emigrants from Nazi Germany to the United States
Columbia University faculty
University of Chicago alumni
University of Pennsylvania alumni