[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals

at agreements agreed to under its auspices should include. These agreements are usually legally binding treaties that aim to "restore the migratory species concerned to a favorable conservation status or to maintain it in such a status." To date seven agreements have been signed, they are as follow:

 Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels (ACAP)
 Agreement on the Conservation of Cetaceans of the Black Sea, Mediterranean Sea and Contiguous Atlantic Area (ACCOBAMS)
 Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA)
 Agreement on the Conservation of Small Cetaceans of the Baltic, North East Atlantic, Irish and North Seas (ASCOBANS)
 Agreement on the Conservation of Populations of European Bats (EUROBATS)
 Agreement on the Conservation of Gorillas and their Habitats (Gorilla Agreement)
 Agreement on the Conservation of Seals in the Wadden Sea (Wadden Sea Seals)

Memoranda of understanding (MOU) 
In addition, several memoranda of understanding (MOU) have also been concluded under the auspices of CMS. While not full agreements, these MOU still aim to conserve various migratory species. To date, 19 MOU have been signed. They are as follows:

 Memorandum of Understanding concerning Conservation Measures for the Aquatic Warbler
 Memorandum of Understanding concerning Conservation Measures for Marine Turtles of the Atlantic Coast of Africa
 Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation of Migratory Birds of Prey in Africa and Eurasia
 Memorandum of Understanding concerning Conservation and Restoration of the Bukhara Deer
 Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation and Management of Dugongs and their Habitats throughout their Range
 Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation of High Andean Flamingos and their Habitats
 Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation and Management of Marine Turtles and their Habitats of the Indian Ocean and South-East Asia
 Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation and Management of the Middle-European Population of the Great Bustard
 Memorandum of Understanding concerning Conservation Measures for the Eastern Atlantic Populations of the Mediterranean Monk Seal
 Memorandum of Understanding for the Conservation of Cetaceans and their Habitats in the Pacific Islands Region
 Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Argentine and the Republic of Chile on the Conservation of the Ruddy-headed Goose
 Memorandum of Understanding concerning Conservation, Restoration and Sustainable Use of the Saiga Antelope
 Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation of Migratory Sharks
 Memorandum of Understanding concerning Conservation Measures for the Siberian Crane
 Memorandum of Understanding concerning Conservation Measures for the Slender-billed Curlew
 Memorandum of Understanding between the Argentine Republic and the Republic of Chile on the Conservation of the Southern Huemul
 Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation of Southern South American Migratory Grassland Bird Species and their Habitats
 Memorandum of Understanding concerning Conservation Measures for the West African Populations of the African Elephant
 Memorandum of Understanding concerning the Conservation of the Manatee and Small Cetaceans of Western Africa and Macaronesia

Organizational structure

Conference of the Parties (COP) 
The Conference of the Parties of the CMS acts as its principal decision-making body. It is composed of all states parties to the convention, as well as any observers that wish to participate in the proceedings of the conference. COPs are held at least every three years.

The functions of the COP are enumerated in Article VII of the convention. At conferences, the states parties review the implementation of this convention, as well as approve all financial regulations of the convention.

Standing committee (StC)  
The Standing Committee is responsible for carrying out interim activities on behalf of the Conference of the Parties in between its meetings. The Committee meets at least once a year. It also usually meets immediately before and after any COPs.

The functions of the Standing Committee were established by Resolution 1.1 of COP 1 in 1985. However, in 2008 at COP 9, the makeup of the Standing Committee was overhauled. Under Resolution 9.15 the composition of the committee, as well as its functions we updated. Its updated functions include:

 To ensure that decisions of the COP are implemented
 To monitor the budget
 To make recommendations for consideration by the next COP
 To provide advice and guidance to the secretariat
 To represent the COP in negotiations with the Host Government and UNEP with regard to the secretariat
 To act as a bureau at the COP
 To undertake any other ad hoc task assigned to it by the COP.