[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# November 1976

Serbian politician and chief advisor to President Boris Tadić from 2004 to 2010 until forming an opposition political party; Cvijan abruptly disappeared from public view in 2014 and was the victim of a drowning in 2018.
Mandla Hlatshwayo, South African actor; in Soweto, Johannesburg (murdered 2017)

Thursday, November 25, 1976
The United States and Mexico signed a prisoner-exchange treaty to allow several hundred Americans, incarcerated in Mexican prisons, to return to the U.S. to complete their sentences in American jails, and to allow the estimated 1,200 Mexican inmates of U.S. jails to be repatriated to Mexico if they wished.  Neither the U.S. nor Mexico had ever signed a prisoner exchange agreement before.
Syria and Iraq announced that they were both pulling back their military forces that had been concentrated along the Middle Eastern nations' mutual border.
West German theoretical physicist Burkhard Heim publicly introduced, for the first time, his completed unified field theory in a presentation, including the methodology for calculating the mass spectrum of elementary particles, to engineers at Messerschmitt-Bölkow-Blohm (MBB).
Born: Donovan McNabb, American NFL quarterback known for his all-star career with the Philadelphia Eagles; in Chicago
Died: 
Theodor Rosebury, 72, British-born American expert on oral microbiology, dealing with diseases of the mouth
Fernando María Castiella, 68, Spanish Minister of Foreign Affairs, 1957 to 1969

Friday, November 26, 1976

The first punk rock song, "Anarchy in the U.K.", was released by EMI Records after being recorded by the Sex Pistols on October 17. 
At least 10 people were killed, and 76 injured, in the explosion of a ruptured natural gas line in Barrientos, a suburb in northern Mexico City.  The blast occurred when a mechanical digger struck the pipeline while excavating.
The trademark for Microsoft was officially registered with the Office of the Secretary of the State of New Mexico.  On the application, the registrants noted that the name (based on "microcomputer" and "software") had been in continuous use since November 12, 1975.
The Warsaw Treaty Organization joint secretariat was established.
Born: Maia Campbell, American TV actress known for In the House; in Takoma Park, Maryland
Died: Marcel Delgado, 75, Mexican-born U.S. film effects specialist known for his development of stop motion animation for film with models, notably for King Kong

Saturday, November 27, 1976
The first multiracial title fights in South Africa (between the highest-ranked white competitor and highest-ranked black) were held at the Rand Stadium in Johannesburg, as part of a plan to allow boxers from the racially-segregated nation to compete in fights sanctioned by the world's pro boxing organizations.  In the first bout, black middleweight champ Elijah 'Tap Tap' Makhatini beat white champion Jan Kies in the third round to become the undisputed South African middleweight champion.  Gerrie Coetzee (who would become the World Boxing Association champion in 1983) defeated the top black challenger James Mathatho with a seventh round knockout for the heavyweight title.
Born:  Jaleel White, African-American television actor and comedian known for portraying the popular character Steve Urkel on the TV sitcom  Family Matters; in Culver City, California
Died: Sarah Stewart, 71, American cancer researcher and viral oncologist

Sunday, November 28, 1976
Aeroflot Flight 2415 crashed shortly after taking off from Moscow on a flight to Leningrad, killing all 67 passengers and six crew.  The Tupolev Tu-104B departed in bad weather at 6:53 local time and lost altitude while banking to the right, coming down  from the airport and exploding on impact.