[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# House in multiple occupation

A house in multiple occupation (HMO), or a house of multiple occupancy, is a British English term which refers to residential properties where 'common areas' exist and are shared by more than one household.

Most HMOs have been subdivided from larger houses designed for and occupied by one family. Some housing legislation makes a distinction between those buildings occupied mainly on long leases and those where the majority of the occupants are short-term tenants.

The definition of an HMO has its origins in fire safety legislation, following a series of publicised, preventable deaths in overcrowded buildings.

Design 
In HMOs, bathrooms and kitchens/kitchenettes are typically designated as common areas shared by all tenants, but contractually speaking common areas may also include stairwells, gardens and landings. Houses may be divided up into self-contained flats, bed-sitting rooms or simple lodgings.

Legally compliant HMOs are characterised by a higher standing of fire proofing, after a series of deaths in overcrowded houses.  According to the Campaign for Bedsit Rights, three people a week died in fires in houses in multiple occupation (HMOs) between 1985 and 1991.

History 
HMOs were principally defined by the Housing Act 1985, as being "...a house which is occupied by persons who do not form a single household". The Local Government and Housing Act 1989 expanded the definition to include any part of a building which:

"would not [ordinarily] be regarded as a house" and
"was originally constructed or subsequently adapted for occupation by a single household"

Both the 1985 and the 1989 Acts have since been superseded by the Housing Act 2004, which established a more complete and complex definition and also introduced the requirement for some HMOs to be subject to mandatory licensing (see below).

The Housing Act 1985 was a consolidating act. The definition of HMO in section 345 HA85 was from section 129(1) of the Housing Act 1974.

The Housing Act 2004 introduced mandatory licensing for large HMOs which were defined in the Act as properties with five or more tenants forming more than one household sharing facilities such as kitchen, bathroom and/or toilets over three or more floors.

On 1 October 2018, the Licensing of Houses in Multiple Occupation (Prescribed Description) (England) Order 2018 amended the large HMO definition in the 2004 Act by abolishing the "3 or more floors" requirement. Nevertheless, purpose-built flats in a block of three or more such flats, were excluded from the amended classification.

Apart from the statutory definition of HMOs requiring a mandatory licence, local authorities have the power to introduce approved licensing schemes which include smaller HMOs as licensable. Typically these are for three or more tenants forming more than one household.

Section 257 HMOs
The Housing Act 2004 (HA) introduced a classification of HMO under section 257 of that Act which includes self-contained flats in a converted block, where:
  the conversion did not comply with 1991 building regulations
  less than two-thirds of the self-contained flats are owner-occupied

This classification helps bring buildings with inadequate fire and safety regulations under the control of local authority (LA) inspection regimes. Section 257 HMOs are often expressly included in LA additional licensing schemes for HMOs.

Council Tax
The Council Tax (Liability for Owners) Regulations 1992 provide a different definition of HMO that is used solely for determining Council Tax liability. Typically, the landlord is required to pay Council Tax on behalf of tenants.

Cost for tenants 
HMOs living spaces are often smaller but typically cheaper than a one bedroom flat. HMO agreements often include most utility bills with the rent. This is because it is difficult for landlords to apportion the cost of bills to each tenant fairly and it is also more appealing to potential tenants.

Licensing
HMO licensing was first introduced in Scotland in 2000. To be granted a licence under the scheme, properties must meet certain standards, such as presence of smoke detectors and fire doors. These provisions were included in response to a fatal fire at a student flat in Glasgow, which had no working smoke detectors, and metal bars preventing escape through a window.

HMO schemes have been subsequently introduced to other parts of the UK, though the legal definition of what constitutes an HMO varies between Scotland, Northern Ireland, England, and Wales.

Generally, in the United Kingdom, an HMO has the following characteristics:
 at least three tenants live there, forming more than one household and
 toilet, bathroom or kitchen facilities are shared between tenants.

Definitions of what constitutes an HMO and a household are set out in the law for each legal jurisdiction.