[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Frame of Government of Pennsylvania

ods, which they called for so often." Also, in anticipation of the possibility that his rights of government in the colony might be stripped of by the English Parliament, a more democratic governmental structure might provide the Quakers in the colony with a shelter from an arbitrary royal governor.

The Frame of 1701 remained the governing constitutional document in Pennsylvania in the following seventy-five years until the Pennsylvania Constitution of 1776 replaced it.

Characteristics
The establishment of Pennsylvania may be the most successful effort of Quakers in colonizing in America. Penn's close relationship with the Crown significantly contributed to the success. His ruling over Pennsylvania was largely based on the royal charter, which curbed his political experiment and led to a hierarchical governmental structure. The compromise diluted the liberalism in the constitution of government, which Penn and his contemporary political thinkers had been promoting. However, the human rights provisions in the Frame of Government successfully reflected certain important values inherent in human thinking prevailing in the colony and Quakerism and contributed to the development of constitutionalism in America.

Legacy and reception
The Frame of Government has been seen as a significant move towards democracy in America.  The political philosophy expounded in the preface to the Frame of 1682 has often been cited and quoted.
Voltaire applauded Penn's efforts, saying he might "with reason, boast of having brought down upon earth the Golden Age, which in all probability, never had any real existence but in his dominions."

The Supreme Court of the United States quoted the 1682 Frame of Government in a February 2019 decision regarding excessive fines imposed by the state of Indiana.

References

External links 
 Penn's Charter of Libertie - April 25, 1682 , Yale Law School Lillian Goldman Law Library
 Frame of Government of Pennsylvania - May 5, 1682, Yale Law School Lillian Goldman Law Library
 Frame of Government of Pennsylvania - February 2, 1683, Yale Law School Lillian Goldman Law Library
 Frame of Government of Pennsylvania - November 1, 1696, Yale Law School Lillian Goldman Law Library
 Frame of Government of Pennsylvania - October 28, 1701, Yale Law School Lillian Goldman Law Library

1682 works
1682 in law
History of the Thirteen Colonies
Pennsylvania Constitutions
Political charters
Pre-statehood history of Pennsylvania
Thirteen Colonies documents
United States documents