[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Zombie Prom

back. Candy is characterized by her anxiety and her declaration that she is "hanging on by her fingernails!" Ginger is a good girl who often speaks up in favor of the rules and social norms of the school, and Coco makes several promiscuous comments throughout the course of the show.

Musical numbers

Act I
 "Enrico Fermi High" - Toffee, Jonny, Jake, Kids and Miss Strict
 "Ain't No Goin' Back" - Toffee, Jonny and Kids
 "Jonny Don't Go" - Toffee and Girls
 "Good As it Gets" - Toffee and Kids
 "The C Word" - Toffee, Jonny, Ginger, Coco, Candy, Jake, Joey, Josh
 "Rules, Regulations and Respect" - Miss Strict and Kids
 "Blast From The Past" - Jonny and Kids
 "That's The Beat For Me" - Eddie, Josh, Secretaries and Copy Boys
 "The Voice In The Ocean" - Jonny and Toffee
 "It's Alive" - Jonny, Miss Strict and Kids
 "Where Do We Go From Here?" - Jonny, Toffee and Kids
 "Trio (Case Closed)" - Eddie, Miss Strict and Jonny

Act II
 "Then Came Jonny" - Miss Strict, Jonny, Toffee and Kids
 "Come Join Us" - Ramona Merengue, Eddie and Jonny
 "How Can I Say Good-Bye?" - Jonny and Motorwise Guys
 "Easy To Say" - Toffee and Girls
 "Exposé" - Eddie and Miss Strict
 "Isn't It?" - Kids
 "Forbidden Love" - Toffee, Jonny and Kids
 "The Lid's Been Blown" - Eddie, Miss Strict and Kids
 "Delilah's Confession" - Miss Strict
 "Zombie Prom" - Full Company

Off-Broadway cast

The cast of the 1996 Off-Broadway Production was as follows:
Eddie Flagrante – Richard Muenz
Delilah Strict – Karen Murphey
Jonny Warner – Richard Roland
Toffee – Jessica-Snow Wilson
Coco – Cathy Trien
Ginger – Natalie Toro
Candy – Rebecca Rich
Joey – Marc Lovci
Jake – Stephen Bienskie
Josh – Jeff Skowron
Swings – Ronit Mitzner, DJ Salisbury

Critical reception 
Reviews of the original Off-Broadway production were generally mixed to negative, with critics praising the cast and the show's humor while also criticizing the book. In his review for The New York Times, critic Ben Brantley wrote:

"Zombie Prom, ... is itself like a model high school student: it's genial and hard working, and it doesn't embarrass you. But for a musical whose hero is a gangrenous corpse, it is also exceptionally bland. ... [the show] relies heavily on this sort of straight-faced pairing of Eisenhower-era perkiness with the nuclear nightmare sensibility of horror movies of the same time. It is essentially a one-joke show, very much in need of more bite than the director Philip William McKinley seems willing to give it, that would have worked better as an extended sketch in a revue."

Greg Evans, in his review for Variety praised the performances from the cast, but compared the show unfavorably to Grease and Little Shop of Horrors, writing "Lacking the spark of the former or bite of the latter, “Zombie Prom” is like any old human prom, a lot of fuss for a very little fun."

Adaptations

2006 short film

A short film adaptation of Zombie Prom (with a running time of only 36 minutes) was released in 2006 at a number of film festivals, receiving a 4-star review on Film Threat and awards including Best Short Film at the Palm Beach International Film Festival. The cast includes drag queen RuPaul as Principal Strict.  The film was directed by Vince Marcello.

Feature film
In June 2015, Variety reported that a feature film adaptation was in production with Vince Marcello and Mark Landry writing the screenplay, and Marcello directing. As of 2023, no new information has surfaced about the film.

References

External links
Zombie Prom: The Musical – Composer's website
"Zombie Prom Original Off-Broadway Cast Recording" – First Night Records
Zombie Prom - The Musical (official) – On Pinterest
Zombie Prom: The Musical
Zombie Prom 2010 London amateur production
Zombie Prom: The Movie – Official website

1996 musicals
Off-Broadway musicals
Zombie short films
American horror short films
Musicals set in schools