[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Seneca Women's Encampment for a Future of Peace and Justice

lude slow walk to depot)
July 17 – New York City women's letter to Seneca County sheriff gave notice of plans for a march from Seneca Falls to the encampment by way of Waterloo on July 30
August 1 – central demonstration involving approximately 1500-3000 people
September 5 – camp closes for the year

Participants
There were many different people and organizations involved in the planning and running of the encampment. Both local and outside women alike participated. The policy of the encampment was to not single out any specific women for their efforts in the organization or running of it. Rather, it was a collective effort and its organizational and political strategies have been analyzed.

The main organizations involved were the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, Catholics against Nuclear Arms, the War Resisters League, Women Strike for Peace, Women's Pentagon Action, Rochester Peace and Justice, and the Upstate Feminist Peace Alliance.

Some participants wrote about, photographed, or otherwise documented their experiences at the Women's Encampment for a Future of Peace and Justice. Mima Cataldo participated in the summer of 1983 and documented the encampment through her photography. Leeann Irwin was an early organizer of the Women's Pentagon action and an active participant in the Encampment, having committed to live at the Women's encampment for a year before it opened, and later organizing a speaking tour of Europe in 1984 on the peace work being done at the camp. Sybil Claiborne collected correspondence, meeting notes, mailing lists, clippings, and leaflets of the Women's Encampment for a Future of Peace and Justice. Cynthia Butler (Cynthia B. Costello) wrote a 13-page document, "Report from Seneca" with Amy Stanley, describing the history of the encampment and providing an analysis of related issues. 

The encampment attracted thousands of women, from many different places and with different political views, sexual orientations, religions, ethnicities, and economic backgrounds. Although a significant number of men shared interest in the encampment's cause, they were neither allowed to join the encampment nor participate in the protests. Any male over the age of twelve was not let onto the main grounds, though there was a place in the front lawn where they could stay. This decision was highly controversial. Many women argued that the group was being exclusionary by not allowing men into the encampment, and mothers argued that sons over the age of twelve who were firm believers in the anti-nuclear cause should be allowed to come.

Community and Media Reactions 
The encampment did not integrate well with the surrounding conservative community.
Damage was done in an early publication by the encampment which denigrated the educational level of local residents and was seen by many to be patronizing and condescending.
Regular counter-protests took place at the encampment's events. The civil unrest also caused resentment by law enforcement agencies because of the extra work associated with monitoring the protests and managing traffic problems which resulted from the events.
Events from July 30 to August 3 led to more than $100,000 in additional policing costs; although they were a local expense at the time, the money was later reimbursed by the federal government.
In November 1984, articles titled "Witches of Seneca" were published in the Syracuse Post-Standard.  The articles characterized the participating women as "lesbians" and "vegetarians" and noted specific information about their witchcraft and feminist practices.  At the time the activities at the encampment were declining and while the articles did not have a major impact, they did confirm for many their assumptions about the movement's supporters.

Ritual
The encampment utilized a number of different techniques in their protests to bring their causes and issues to the attention of the outside world. They used many ritual elements. The women would protest in large circles, holding hands, and weave webs of yarn around each other and around the fence of the Army Depot, with objects of meaning also incorporated. They performed slow walks, where they would walk in slow-motion; twisting, turning, and pulling each other along. In one protest they tied themselves to the fence with ribbons and yarn, and moaned and screamed. There was a 'zukes not nukes' week where they stormed the fence and filled it with zucchinis. Other demonstrations featured singing, dancing, masks, costumes, makeup, and signs. Sometimes die-ins were performed, to imitate war casualties. There was even a laundry ritual, in which women hung up signs in a local laundromat while doing their laundry.