[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gordon Tucker

from the inevitable omissions, some few typos, some doubts about Tucker's interpretations. But on the whole, the introductions to each chapter, the explanatory notes on almost every page (including identifying Heschel's often obscure sources) are wonderful aids in working through this massive work."

Heschel differed with the more legalistic approach to Torah of the Lithuanian rabbis who dominated the interpretation of halacha and the exegesis of Torah in the 20th century. He emphasized aggadah and midrash, the often speculative writings of the rabbinical sages that were outside the Torah's legal framework. Because these writings were not as heavily edited or redacted as the Mishna and Gemara, Heschel's Hebrew manuscript reflects a variety of difficult Hebrew prose styles. Or N. Rose, a reviewer of Heavenly Torah, praised Tucker and Levin for capturing the qualities of Heschel's original manuscript in their translation. "Not only is this English version a lucid and thoughtful reworking of the original text, but Tucker and Levin even manage to introduce into their translation a measure of the poeticism readers have come to expect of Heschel."

Family life

Tucker is currently married to Dr. Amy Cohn, with whom he has a son and daughter, Micah and Becky. He was previously married to Hadassah Freilich (now Lieberman), with whom he has a son, Rabbi Ethan Tucker, a rosh yeshiva at Yeshivat Hadar. His first wife later married Senator Joseph Lieberman, who became the first Jewish candidate for national office with a major political party.

References

Sources 
  All Eyes On Rabbi Tucker At Panel, The Jewish Week
 Hazon Bio
 Temple Israel of White Plains bio (official)
 Forward article
 Haber, Gedalia. "Lost In Translation: Abraham Joshua Heschel's 'Heavenly Torah'—A Review Essay". Modern Judaism, volume 29, number 3, October 2009, pp. 405–427.
 Heschel, Abraham Joshua. Heavenly Torah: As Refracted through the Generations. Edited and Translated with Commentary by Gordon Tucker with Leonard Levin. (New York, London: Continuum, 2004)
 Rose, Or N. Heavenly Torah in Human Hands JBooks.com, the Online Jewish Book Community.
 Tucker, Gordon. Halakhic and Metahalakhic Arguments Concerning Judaism and Homosexuality
 Tucker, Gordon. "The Importance of Orientation: Etz Hayyim and the Conservative Jewish Perspective." United Synagogue Review. Spring 2003

American Conservative rabbis
Living people
The Bronx High School of Science alumni
Harvard College alumni
Princeton University alumni
Jewish Theological Seminary of America semikhah recipients
Year of birth missing (living people)
20th-century American rabbis
21st-century American rabbis