[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 192]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

Seeing then our Saviour hath
denyed his Kingdome to be in this world, seeing he hath said, he came
not to judge, but to save the world, he hath not subjected us to other
Laws than those of the Common-wealth; that is, the Jews to the Law
of Moses, (which he saith (Mat. 5.) he came not to destroy, but to
fulfill,) and other Nations to the Laws of their severall Soveraigns,
and all men to the Laws of Nature; the observing whereof, both he
himselfe, and his Apostles have in their teaching recommended to us, as
a necessary condition of being admitted by him in the last day into his
eternall Kingdome, wherein shall be Protection, and Life everlasting.
Seeing then our Saviour, and his Apostles, left not new Laws to oblige
us in this world, but new Doctrine to prepare us for the next; the Books
of the New Testament, which containe that Doctrine, untill obedience to
them was commanded, by them that God hath given power to on earth to be
Legislators, were not obligatory Canons, that is, Laws, but onely good,
and safe advice, for the direction of sinners in the way to salvation,
which every man might take, and refuse at his owne perill, without
injustice.

Again, our Saviour Christs Commission to his Apostles, and Disciples,
was to Proclaim his Kingdome (not present, but) to come; and to Teach
all Nations; and to Baptize them that should beleeve; and to enter into
the houses of them that should receive them; and where they were not
received, to shake off the dust of their feet against them; but not
to call for fire from heaven to destroy them, nor to compell them to
obedience by the Sword. In all which there is nothing of Power, but of
Perswasion. He sent them out as Sheep unto Wolves, not as Kings to their
Subjects. They had not in Commission to make Laws; but to obey, and
teach obedience to Laws made; and consequently they could not make their
Writings obligatory Canons, without the help of the Soveraign Civill
Power. And therefore the Scripture of the New Testament is there only
Law, where the lawfull Civill Power hath made it so. And there also the
King, or Soveraign, maketh it a Law to himself; by which he subjecteth
himselfe, not to the Doctor, or Apostle, that converted him, but to God
himself, and his Son Jesus Christ, as immediately as did the Apostles
themselves.




Of The Power Of Councells To Make The Scripture Law

That which may seem to give the New Testament, in respect of those that
have embraced Christian Doctrine, the force of Laws, in the times, and
places of persecution, is the decrees they made amongst themselves in
their Synods. For we read (Acts 15.28.) the stile of the Councell of the
Apostles, the Elders, and the whole Church, in this manner, "It seemed
good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burthen
than these necessary things, &C." which is a stile that signifieth a
Power to lay a burthen on them that had received their Doctrine. Now
"to lay a burthen on another," seemeth the same that "to oblige;" and
therefore the Acts of that Councell were Laws to the then Christians.
Neverthelesse, they were no more Laws than are these other Precepts,
"Repent, Be Baptized; Keep the Commandements; Beleeve the Gospel; Come
unto me; Sell all that thou hast; Give it to the poor;" and "Follow
me;" which are not Commands, but Invitations, and Callings of men to
Christianity, like that of Esay 55.1. "Ho, every man that thirsteth,
come yee to the waters, come, and buy wine and milke without money."
For first, the Apostles power was no other than that of our Saviour,
to invite men to embrace the Kingdome of God; which they themselves
acknowledged for a Kingdome (not present, but) to come; and they that
have no Kingdome, can make no Laws. And secondly, if their Acts of
Councell, were Laws, they could not without sin be disobeyed. But we
read not any where, that they who received not the Doctrine of Christ,
did therein sin; but that they died in their sins; that is, that their
sins against the Laws to which they owed obedience, were not pardoned.
And those Laws were the Laws of Nature, and the Civill Laws of the
State, whereto every Christian man had by pact submitted himself. And
therefore by the Burthen, which the Apostles might lay on such as they
had converted, are not to be understood Laws, but Conditions, proposed
to those that sought Salvation; which they might accept, or refuse at
their own perill, without a new sin, though not without the hazard of
being condemned, and excluded out of the Kingdome of God for their sins
past. And therefore of Infidels, S. John saith not, the wrath of God
shall "come" upon them, but "the wrath of God remaineth upon them;"
and not that they shall be condemned; but that "they are condemned
already."(John 3.36, 3.18) Nor can it be conceived, that the benefit
of Faith, "is Remission of sins" unlesse we conceive withall, that the
dammage of Infidelity, is "the Retention of the sa