[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# JTG

August 5 episode of SmackDown teaming with David Otunga and Michael McGillicutty to defeat The Usos and Trent Barreta. JTG gained a girlfriend and manager in Tamina in November 2011, leading to a feud with The Usos, whom Tamina had formerly managed; JTG continually found himself losing to The Usos.

Alicia Fox then approached JTG in May 2012 and offered to give him a makeover, which JTG accepted. On the May 9 episode of NXT Redemption, JTG debuted a new look and defeated Yoshi Tatsu, which was his first and only win in 2012, as JTG soon reverted to losing matches for the rest of 2012 and 2013, including his final match, which was a loss to Santino Marella on the September 20, 2013 episode of Superstars. After not appearing on WWE television in 2014, JTG was released on June 12.

On April 1, 2022, JTG, in his first WWE appearance in eight years, appeared with Shad Gaspard's wife and son in the 2022 WWE Hall of Fame ceremony, awarding the Warrior award to Gaspard.

Return to the independent circuit (2014–present) 

In June 2014, JTG and tag team partner Shad Gaspard began taking bookings as Crime Time, changing the spelling of their name in order to avoid a lawsuit from WWE. On August 23, 2014, for Warriors of Wrestling, Crime Time and The Blue Meanie were defeated by Chachi, Verna and J-George. This was JTG's first match since leaving WWE. He appeared at wrestling events by himself or with Gaspard as part of Crime Time in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. In 2017, he wrestled for Joey Ryan's California Bar Wrestling promotion in matches alone and alongside Gaspard.  In 2019, he wrestled a tag match with Shad at a Game Changer Wrestling/Suburban Fight Pro event, and in a battle royal at Joey Janela's Spring Break 3.

On February 15, 2020, Crime Time appeared at former WWE wrestler Santino Marella's Battle Arts promotion in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, which would be their final match together as following scheduled events were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Gaspard died three months later on May 17, disbanding the tag team.

Three months after Gaspard's death, JTG made his first wrestling appearance at VxS Wrestling on August 16, 2020, losing to Brian Cage. He also appeared at Brii Combination Wrestling on September 5 in Atlantic City, New Jersey. On October 9, JTG defeated Trey Miguel at Game Changer Wrestling's For The Culture event, and also participated in a Battle Royal at the promotion's Spring Break 4 event the following day, which was broadcast on FITE TV. On November 6, JTG won the VIP Wrestling Heavyweight Championship in Haltom City, Texas, becoming his first solo championship after defeating Gino, Shane Taylor, and Will Allday. He reappeared at the wrestling promotion on January 29, 2021, after issuing an open challenge to take his championship title, which Alex Hammerstone accepted but lost. He returned to the promotion again on March 26, defeating Carlito, and has continued to make appearances with the promotion, with his most recent being on March 6, 2022, in a match against Shane Taylor.

In February 2021, he appeared at Florida-based wrestling promotions and returned to VxS Wrestling in New Jersey, defeating Mance Warner. On April 9, he appeared at VxS Wrestling's Lucid Dreams show in Tampa, Florida that was broadcast on FITE TV in a match against Dr. Cube. After being attacked by Dr. Cube and his entourage, he was saved by Big Cass and won the match. On October 22, he made his PCW Ultra debut in Wilmington, California, where he was defeated by Steve Madison. On October 24, he won the Waco Association Wrestling Championship in Waco, Texas after defeating Juventud Guerrera.

On February 3, 2023, JTG appeared at House of Glory's The Beginning show in an attempt to earn the Heavyweight Championship title from Jacob Fatu, though lost the match.

National Wrestling Alliance (2021–present) 
On June 6, JTG made his National Wrestling Alliance debut at their When Our Shadows Fall pay-per-view event, defeating Fred Rosser. A month later on July 6, he was defeated by Chris Adonis in an attempt to earn his NWA National Championship title. In December of that year, he formed a tag team with Dirty Dango under the name "Dirty Sexy Boys."

Other activities and media 
JTG published his first book Damn! Why Did I Write This Book? in May 2015, followed by its sequel Damn! Why Did I Write This Book Too? How to Play the Game the following year. He published his third book and first fitness e-book, The Newbies Guide To Big Biceps: So Easy To Follow A Child Could Do It! in December 2020.

As an actor, JTG made his film debut in Bad Night and appeared in The Last Sharknado: It's About Time. In 2017, he appeared on the song "Team Asoka" with The Asoka alongside wrestlers John Morrison and Rocky Romero.

In 2018, JTG founded a beard and body care line named Sexy As Hell Beard Care. The following year, he created an app called Earsaye, which creates audio memes.