[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# Va'etchanan

h's teaching (in , , and  and ) that one who killed another unintentionally did not incur capital punishment, Baḥya ibn Paquda found proof that an essential condition of liability for punishment is the association of mind and body in a forbidden act—that liability requires both intention and action.

Deuteronomy chapter 5
Baḥya ibn Paquda argued that because the wholehearted acceptance of the unity of God is the root and foundation of Judaism, God's first words to the Israelites at Mount Sinai in  (20:2–3 in NJPS) and  (5:6–7 in NJPS) were: "I am the Lord your God . . . you shall not have other gods before Me," and then God exhorted the Israelites through Moses, saying in : "Hear O Israel the Lord, is our God, the Lord is One."

Baḥya ibn Paquda read the words "You shall not murder" in  (20:13 in NJPS) and  (5:17 in NJPS) to prohibit suicide, as well as murdering any other human being. Baḥya reasoned that the closer the murdered is to the murderer, the more the punishment should be severe, and thus the punishment for those who kill themselves will undoubtedly be very great. Baḥya taught that for that reason, people should not recklessly endanger their lives.

Citing  (5:18 in NJPS), Baḥya ibn Paquda taught that not to covet is a leading example of an negative duty of the heart.

Interpreting the prohibition of coveting in  (20:14 in NJSP) and desiring in  (5:18 in NJPS), Maimonides taught that any person who covets a servant, a maidservant, a house, or utensils that belong to a colleague, or any other article that the person can purchase from the colleague and pressures the colleague with friends and requests until the colleague agrees to sell, violates a negative commandment, even though the person pays much money for it, as  (20:14 in NJSP) says, "Do not covet." Maimonides taught that the violation of this commandment was not punished by lashes, because it does not involve a deed. Maimonides taught that a person does not violate  (20:14 in NJSP) until the person actually takes the article that the person covets, as reflected by  "Do not covet the gold and silver on these statues and take it for yourself." Maimonides read the word for "covet" in both  (20:14 in NJSP) and  to refer to coveting accompanied by a deed. Maimonides taught that a person who desires a home, a spouse, utensil, or anything else belonging to a colleague that the person can acquire violates a negative commandment when the person thinks in the person's heart how it might be possible to acquire this thing from the colleague. Maimonides read  (5:18 in NJPS), "Do not desire," to refer even to feelings in the heart alone. Thus, a person who desires another person's property violates one negative commandment. A person who purchases an object the person desires after pressuring the owners and repeatedly asking them, violates two negative commandments. For that reason, Maimonides concluded, the Torah prohibits both desiring in  (5:18 in NJPS) and coveting in  (20:14 in NJSP). And if the person takes the article by robbery, the person violates three negative commandments.

Isaac Abrabanel noted that the order of  (20:14 in NJSP), "You shall not covet your neighbor's house; you shall not covet your neighbor's wife," differs from that in  (5:18 in NJPS), "Neither shall you covet thy neighbor's wife; neither shall you desire your neighbor's house." Abrabanel deduced that  (20:14 in NJSP) mentions the things that might be coveted in the order that a person has need of them, and what it behooves a person to try to acquire in this world. Therefore, the first coveted item mentioned is a person's house, then the person's spouse, then the person's servants, and lastly the person's animals that do not speak.  (5:18 in NJPS), however, mentions them in the order of the gravity of the sin and evil. The most evil coveting is that of another person's spouse, as in David's coveting of Bathsheba. Next in magnitude of evil comes coveting the house in which one's neighbor lives, lest the person evict the neighbor and take the neighbor's home. Next comes the neighbor's field, for although a person does not live there as in the house, it is the source of the neighbor's livelihood and inheritance, as in the affair of Ahab and the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. After the field  (5:18 in NJPS) mentions servants, who Abrabanel valued of lesser importance than one's field. Next come the neighbor's animals, who do not have the faculty of speech, and lastly, to include the neighbor's inanimate moveable property,  (5:18 in NJPS) says "and anything that is your neighbor's."