[Source: PubMed]

13. Mil Med. 2021 Aug 28;186(9-10):e1017-e1023. doi: 10.1093/milmed/usaa376.

An Analysis of International Military Health Systems Using the Military Medical 
Corps Worldwide Almanac.

Leone RM(1), Homan Z(2), Lelong A(3), Bandekow L(4), Bricknell M(2).

Author information:
(1)Conflict and Health Research Group, School of Security Studies, King's 
College London, London, WC2R 2LS, UK.
(2)Centre for Science & Security Studies, Department of War Studies, King's 
College London, London, WC2R 2LS, UK.
(3)School of Population Health & Environmental Sciences, King's College London, 
London WC2R 2LS, UK.
(4)Worldwide Military-Medicine Almanac, Bonn, 53125, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: A number of organizations publish comparisons of civilian health 
systems between countries. However, the authors were unable to find a global, 
systematic, and contemporary analysis of military healthcare systems. Although 
many databases exist for comparing national healthcare systems, the only such 
compilation of information for military medical systems is the Military Medical 
Almanac. A thorough review of the Almanac was conducted to understand the 
quality of information provided in each country's profile and to develop a 
framework for comparing between countries. This information is valuable because 
it can facilitate collaboration and lesson sharing between nations while 
providing a structured source of information about a nation's military medical 
capabilities for internal use.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Each of the 142 profiles (submitted by 132 countries) 
published in the Almanac were reviewed. The information provided was extracted 
and aggregated into a spreadsheet that covered the broader categories of country 
background, force demographics, beneficiary populations, administration and 
oversight, physical structures and capabilities, research capabilities, and 
culture and artifacts. An initial sample of 20 countries was evaluated to test 
these categories and their subsections before the rest of the submissions were 
reviewed. Clear definitions were revised and established for each of the 69 
subcategories. Qualitative and quantitative data were compiled in the 
spreadsheet to enable comparisons between entries.
RESULTS: Significant variation was found in how information was presented in 
country profiles and to what extent this was comparable between submissions. The 
most consistently provided information was in the country background, where the 
categories ranged from 90.15% to 100% completion across submissions. There was 
inconsistency in reporting of the numbers and types of healthcare workers 
employed within military medical services. Nearly 25% of nations reported 
providing medical care to family members of service members, but retirees, 
veterans, reservists, and law enforcement personnel were also mentioned. Some 
countries described organizational structures, military medical education 
institutions, and humanitarian operations. A few reported military medical 
research capabilities, though each research domain was present in 25% or less of 
all submissions. Interestingly, cultural identities such as emblems were present 
in nearly 90% of profiles, with many countries also having badges, symbols, and 
mottos.
CONCLUSIONS: The Military Medical Almanac is potentially a highly valuable 
collection of publicly available baseline information on military medical 
services across the world. However, the quality of this collection is highly 
dependent on the submission provided by each country. It is recommended that the 
template for collecting information on each health system be refined, alongside 
an effort to increase awareness of the value of the Almanac as an opportunity to 
raise the international profile of each country's military medical system. This 
will ensure that the Almanac can better serve the international military medical 
community.

© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2020. All rights 
reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/milmed/usaa376
PMID: 33241312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]