[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tomás Borge

5, 2006, the Sandinista candidate Daniel Ortega won with 38% of the vote.  Borge increased his influence in the government. On March 22, 2007, at his request, he was appointed Ambassador of Nicaragua to Peru, where he served until his death. His appointment was seen as a retreat from political life.

Death
On April 6, 2012, Borge entered the Military Hospital Alejandro Dávila Bolaños in Managua where he underwent a video-assisted thoracic surgery for a lung condition which had been progressing (according to some unofficial sources, he had cancer because he traveled to Cuba without being treated first). On April 9, he was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit after a respiratory complication developed while staying under medical supervision. On April 30, Rosario Murillo, coordinator of the Communication and Citizenship Council, published news of his death, which had occurred at 20:55 p.m. that night. At the time of his death, Tomás Borge was 81 and had continued staying active in politics as ambassador in Lima, Peru.

Borge was the last survivor of the founders of the FSLN and one of its most important figures. Rosario Murillo said in reporting his death that Borge, as Borge had said of Carlos Fonseca, is "among the dead that never die."

Official acts were performed in his honor at the National Palace of Culture, former National Palace, where the chapel once stood. Tomás Borge was buried in the mausoleum of Carlos Fonseca, at the Revolution Square in Managua and the government decreed three days of national mourning.

Criticism
Borge was accused of exerting pressure against the Catholic Church hierarchy and accused it of siding with the Contras. Borge also established the censorship of the press, which was clarified after errors as well as compulsory military service.

The Misquitos accused Borge, among others, of the displacement and killing of those who opposed the Sandinista government, as told by the President of the Permanent Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of American States(OAS), Marcos Carmona, to the FSLN and opposition in the context of an election campaign. Another accusation against Borge was that he gave the order to kill 37 dissidents imprisoned in Granada during the first term of Ortega. He was charged, along with the rest of the Sandinista government, after the victory of Violeta Chamorro in 1990, of the "Piñata Sandinista", where they were accused of confiscating public properties. The charges were always rejected by Borge.

He created the Council of Sandinista Defense (CDS), like the Cuban's CDR, and the current Council of Citizen Power.

He founded the open prisons, where prisoners were without custody, and the women's prison "La Esperanza", a novelty in Nicaragua.

In an interview with the newspaper Nuevo Diario of Nicaragua for the 30th anniversary of the Sandinista Revolution, Borge said:

In 2009, Swedish journalist and filmmaker Peter Torbiornsson accused Borge of having ordered the La Penca Bombing of 1984, in which seven people were killed, including three journalists, and a dozen seriously injured.  According to Torbiornsson, who survived the bombing, he had been asked by Renán Montero, a Cuban military officer who was working at the time for Borge's Ministry of the Interior, to meet with a man posing as a Danish news photographer and to escort him to the press conference convened by Contra leader Edén Pastora in his outpost at La Penca.  That man turned out to be the bomber.  Torbiornsson attempted to press charges against Montero, Borge, and former chief of state security Lenín Cerna for murder and crimes against humanity, but the Sandinista government of President Daniel Ortega refused to investigate the matter.

Private life
His first wife, Yelba Mayorga, was killed in 1979 during the guerrilla struggle and had 5 daughters. Later, he married Josephine Cerda and had several children with her. In 2007, he married the Peruvian actress Marcela Perez Silva and had three children with her.

Writings
Borge was the author of several works of poetry, essays, and an autobiography. The Cuban poet Roberto Fernandez Retamar believes that Borge's book "Carlos, el amanecer no es sólo un sueño", which he wrote in prison, is comparable in literary merit to the documentary prose of Gabriel García Márquez.

Some of his published titles are "The Patient Impatience", "A Grain of Corn", and "The Anticipated Ceremony".

 . 2009. Un grano de maíz: conversación con Fidel Castro. Editor Aldilá, 243 pp. 
 . 1989. La historia de Maizgalpa. Tambor de Tacuarí. Editor Ediciones Colihue 22 pp.  en línea

See also
FSLN
Sandinista Revolution
Augusto Sandino
Nicaragua
Contras
Nicaraguan Revolution
Fidel Castro
Che Guevara
Régis Debray
Hugo Chávez

References

External links
 author page at Curbstone Press