[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Didier Digard

. In midfield I have to help stop the other team's forwards and relaunch the game, so that we can counter-attack. I think to be physical, that's a quality, not a bad thing. You can have technical players, people who are mentally able, but to make a team complete you must have people who are strong."

Digard made his Middlesbrough debut during the first fixture of the 2008–09 Premier League season replacing Tuncay in the 72nd minute in the 2–1 victory against Tottenham Hotspur at the Riverside Stadium. He made his first contribution of note in the 86th minute of the same game, when his wayward shot turned into an assist when it was deflected goalwards by Mido, a goal which turned out to be the winner. In a match against Yeovil Town in the League Cup, Digard scored a 30-yard goal and the score ended up 5–1 to Middlesbrough. After another substitute appearance in the 2–1 away defeat to Liverpool, he, once again, came off the bench in the 2–1 home win against Stoke City, which his misfire shot turned into an assist, with the ball falling to Tuncay to score the winner. During a 2–1 loss against Portsmouth on 13 September 2008, Digard suffered a knee injury and had to be substituted in the 70th minute. But he quickly returned to training shortly after. Since joining the club, Digard was involved in the first team for the side, playing in the midfield position. However, in mid–December, he suffered a groin injury that kept him for almost a month. It wasn't until on 10 January 2009 when Digard returned from injury, starting a match before being substituted in the 65th minute, in a 1–1 draw against Sunderland. However, on 17 January 2009, Digard was sent off against West Bromwich Albion for a tackle on Borja Valero, resulting a 3–0 loss. After a serving three match suspension, he made his return on 7 February 2009, starting the match before being substituted in the 60th minute, in a 1–0 loss against Manchester City. But his return was short–lived when in a 0–0 draw against Wigan on 21 February 2009, Digard was involved in a challenge by Lee Cattermole and was stretchered off midway through the first half suffering an injury to his medial ligaments in his right knee as well as a rupture to the quadriceps muscle in his left leg. During the same month, Digard insisted in an interview that he had no regrets about his move to Middlesbrough, havingsettled at Middlesbrough. Following the three-month injury lay-off, Digard returned to the team squad as an unused substitute in a 0–0 draw against Fulham on 18 April 2009. On 26 April 2009, Digard returned to action, coming on a substitute for Tony McMahon after 73 minutes in a 2–0 loss against Arsenal. At the end of the season, Middlesbrough were relegated to the Championship after 11 successive years in the Premier League. At the end of the 2008–09 season, he went on to make twenty–one appearances in all competitions.

Digard made his first appearance of the 2009–10 season against Sheffield United in the opening game of the season, starting a match before being substituted in the 42nd minute, as they drew 0–0. However, during the match, he suffered a groin strain that kept him out for a month. It wasn't until on 19 September 2009 when Digard made his return to the first team as a substitute, in a 5–0 loss against West Bromwich Albion. In a match against Derby County on 20 October 2009, he set up a goal for Adam Johnson, who scored twice, in a 2–0 win. However, Digard soon found his first team opportunities limited for the side, due to rotation change under the new management of Gordon Strachan. He soon faced his own injury concern along the way. By the time Digard departed Middlesbrough on loan, he made nine appearances for the side.

Nice

Digard joined French Ligue 1 club Nice on loan for six months on 8 January 2010, having been limited to 34 appearances for Middlesbrough due to a series of injuries. Upon joining the club, he said about the move: "I felt a real desire to get me to come from the coach, our discussions went very well. I'm the L1, I like watching a lot of matches on TV, I think Nice have a good team and that they deserve better than their current ranking. I know the style of this team and I think I can bring something more. I hope to pull them up by bringing the maximum of what I can do."