[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Iberian worm lizard

The Iberian worm lizard, Mediterranean worm lizard, or European worm lizard (Blanus cinereus) is a species of reptile in the family Blanidae (worm lizards) of the clade Amphisbaenia.  The Iberian worm lizard is locally known as cobra-cega (Portuguese), culebrilla ciega (Spanish), and colobreta cega (Catalan), all meaning "blind snake".  Recent studies into the mitochondrial and nuclear genomic data of 47 isolated B. cinereus populations show rather large sequence divergence between two apparent clades, leading some researchers to call for a division of the Iberian worm lizard into two species.  While little is known of B. cinereus in comparison with some other reptile species, new insight is growing about this primitive, ancestral reptile.

Geographic range
The Iberian worm lizard is found within Portugal and through most of central and southern Spain.

Habitat
B. cinereus is a subterranean species found in a wide variety of Mediterranean habitats. Their abundance in population in different regions is difficult to determine due to their subterranean nature.  However, studies on B. cinereus activity have shown the organism's ability to survive in habitats between 400 meters and 1400 meters.  The Iberian worm lizard is a thermoregulator meaning it can only survive in habitats conducive to its thermoregulatory needs.  Typical habitats for  B. cinereus consist of areas of high humus and sporadic rocks of varying thickness. B. cinereus will take advantage of their habitat's loose soil depth and rocks as means for thermoregulation. Depending on the time of day Iberian worm lizards will move in between 0 cm and 10 cm of soil and underneath rocks varying in thickness from 10 cm to 20 cm. B. cinereus will use the depth of soil, particularly the deeper soil, to cool down and the rocks to warm itself to varying degrees based on the time of day and thickness of the rocks.  By using its habitat, the Iberian worm lizard is able to maintain a constant body temperature with minimal energy expense.

Diet
The Iberian worm lizard is believed to be an opportunistic feeder through the study of central Spanish B. cinereus populations.  Initially, B. cinereus was thought to feed on the diverse array of prey that inhabited the underside of rocks, but a correlation with feeding habits and under rock prey was not seen.  Its diet consisting mainly of insects and insect larvae, which are the worm lizard's most abundant food source, led observers to make the conclusion that B. cinereus acts as an opportunistic feeder.  While being an overall opportunistic feeder,  B. cinereus will instinctively hunt for larger insect larvae and will refrain from eating certain ant species, thus showing a level of prey distinguishing during opportunistic feeding.  B. cinereus is also believed to have low energy requirements based on average stomach content in comparison with other lizard species.  It is speculated that Iberian worm lizards will search for scarce but energy-rich foods when habitats allow for this type of feeding, but can adapt and feed on abundant and less energy-rich prey when necessary.

Morphology
The Iberian worm lizard has similar morphology to a worm because of its limbless ringed body, but unlike worms it possesses small, underdeveloped eyes, small smooth scales, and most importantly it has all characteristics of a typical vertebrate like, vertebral column, lungs, and closed circulatory system. The head is small and blunt, used for digging, with underdeveloped eyes covered by skin, and a characteristically ridged ringed body covered in scales.  Iberian worm lizard tails are short and possess the same scales. It has a small forked tongue used for chemosensory signaling purposes, and a row of small but sharp teeth within the mouth's interior. Its coloration is fleshy-pink, violet, or brown depending on its region. Adults are usually about  in total length, but can be up to  in total length. Iberian worm lizards are frequently mistaken for small snakes or large worms.

Chemosensory signaling
Due to its subterranean lifestyle, the Iberian worm lizard exhibits characteristically small, primitive eyes.  These eyes leave the B. cinereus with almost a complete inability to see, only distinguishing changes in light intensity.  However, B. cinereus has made up for its lack of sight through the development of a chemosensory signaling systems.  Chemosensory signaling is mediated by the extremely sensitive vomeronasal organ on the head of the B. cinereus.  The response to individual chemical stimuli can be measured by counting tongue flicks.