[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Virginia in the American Civil War

ed their offices in Richmond, which reflected the deep divisions among the western counties. The Pierpont government found support among the counties along the Pennsylvania and Ohio borders and the counties along the B&O railroad line. In most of West Virginia however Pierpont's government was weak.

Military organizations for both the Union and Confederate governments began in May and June 1861, with Gov. Letcher ordering the muster of county militias and Pierpont doing the same for the Union. Many counties that had voted heavily against the secession ordinance nevertheless gave large numbers of men to the Confederate army. Due to the restricted enlistment for soldiers in Pennsylvania and Ohio many men not accepted in those states chose to join Pierpont's military organizations. The 1st and 2nd West Virginia Infantry and the 1st and 2nd West Virginia Cavalry were primarily composed of men from those states. Confederate enlistments began for the 8th Virginia Cavalry, 31st Virginia Infantry, 25th Virginia Infantry, and several regiments in the Stonewall Brigade. West Virginia provided about 20,000 soldiers each to the Union and the Confederacy.

An ordinance for separate statehood from Virginia was passed by the Pierpont government for a public vote on October 24, 1861. Turnout was low, with 18,408 voters approving. The 1860 census recorded 79,515 men of voting age in the 50 counties, and turnout was low for all of the Wheeling initiatives. The last necessary vote for statehood was held on March 4, 1863, with a turnout of 28,318, which included the soldier votes, approving the Willey amendment to the new state constitution.

The new state was formally admitted to the Union on June 20, 1863.

Demographics

Virginia's Confederate government fielded about 155,000 troops in the American Civil War, more than any other state within the Confederacy. They came from all economic and social levels, including some Unionists and former Unionists. However, at least 30,000 of these men were actually from other states. Most of these non-Virginians were from Maryland, whose government was controlled by Unionists during the war. Another 20,000 of these troops were from what would become the State of West Virginia in August 1863. Important Confederates from Virginia included General Robert E. Lee, commander of the Army of Northern Virginia, General Stonewall Jackson (born in what became West Virginia), General J.E.B. Stuart, General A.P. Hill, and General Jubal Early.

Around 27,000 Virginians in total served in the Union Army. These were roughly 21,000 white Virginians (including West Virginians), and roughly 6,000 Virginians of African ancestry. Some of these men served in Maryland units. The U.S. provost marshal's estimate for West Virginia included large numbers of Ohioans and Pennsylvanians serving as "Virginians", but a recent soldier count has determined that about 20,000 were from West Virginia. Some African Americans, both freedmen and runaway slaves, enlisted in states as far away as Massachusetts. Areas of Virginia that supplied Union soldiers and sent few men to fight for the Confederacy, were those that had few or no slaves, a high percentage of poor families, and a history of opposition to secession. These areas were mainly located in northwestern Virginia.    40% of Virginia's officers in the United States military when the war started stayed and fought for the Union.  These men included Winfield Scott, General-in-Chief of the Union Army; David G. Farragut, First Admiral of the Union Navy; and General George Henry Thomas.

At least one Virginian actually served in both the Confederate and Union armies. At the beginning of the war, a Confederate soldier from Fairfax County approached the Union soldiers guarding Chain Bridge in his Confederate uniform. Asked what he was doing trying to cross the bridge, he responded that he was travelling to Washington, D.C., to see his uncle. The perplexed Union soldiers asked who his uncle was and the soldier replied his name is Uncle Sam. He was quickly enlisted as a Union scout due to his knowledge of the local terrain.

Aftermath

Numerous battlefields and sites have been partially or fully preserved in Virginia. Those managed by the Federal government include Manassas National Battlefield Park, Richmond National Battlefield Park, Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania National Military Park, Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park, Petersburg National Battlefield, Appomattox Court House National Historical Park.

A bill to remove Civil War monuments in Virginia advanced on February 3, 2020, after civil rights activists called for eliminating Civil War statues and Confederate monuments that tied cities to a legacy of racism and slavery.

See also 

Army of Northern Virginia
Confederate States of America States (animated map of secession and confederacy) 
Virginia Units in the Civil War

References

Further reading