[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Čelebići camp

The Čelebići camp was a concentration camp run by joint Bosniak and Bosnian Croat forces during the Bosnian War where Serb prisoners were detained and subjected to murder, beatings, torture, sexual assaults and otherwise cruel and inhumane treatment. The facility was used by several units of the Bosnian Ministry of the Interior (MUP), Croatian Defence Council (HVO) and later the Bosnian Territorial Defence Forces (TO). It was located in Čelebići, a village in the central Bosnian municipality of Konjic.

The camp was operational from April to December 1992 and approximately 400-700 Serbs were held there during its existence. Most of the Serb detainees were civilians, arrested during military operations that were intended to unblock routes to Sarajevo and Mostar in May 1992 that had earlier been blocked by Serb forces. Some prisoners were shot or stabbed and killed or beaten to death. It is believed that as many as 30 prisoners died while in captivity.

On 21 March 1996, camp deputy commander Hazim Delić, guard Esad Landžo, commander Zdravko Mucić and Zejnil Delalić were indicted by the ICTY for their roles in the crimes committed at the camp. Following the trial, Delić, Landžo and Mucić were found guilty of violations of the customs of war and grave breaches of the Geneva conventions for the murder, torture and cruel treatment of prisoners with each receiving a sentence of 20 years, 15 years and 7 years respectively. Delalić was acquitted.

Background

As war broke out in Bosnia, the municipality of Konjic was of historical and strategic importance. It is located in the center of areas both Serbs and Croats long considered to fall within their sphere of influence, with the Croats laying claim to the entire area of Herzegovina and the Serbs primarily interested in the eastern Neretva valley. A key railway line and highway passed through Konjic towards Sarajevo. Several important military facilities were also located in Konjic, including an arms and ammunition factory, JNA barracks and reserve command site, a communications and telecommunications centre, and the Čelebići barracks and warehouses.

In March 1992, Serb political members of the Konjic municipality adopted a decision on the Serbian territories, even though Serbs did not constitute the majority of the population of Konjic nor did it form part of the declared "Serb autonomous regions" set out on 21 November 1991. This was reportedly recognized by the Serbian Democratic Party (SDS) on the basis of the number of Serb representatives in the Municipal Assembly. The SDS, in co-operation with the JNA, had also been active in arming the Serb population of the municipality and in training paramilitary units and militias.

Konjic was also claimed by the Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) as part of the "Croatian Republic of Herzeg-Bosnia", despite the fact that the Croats did not constitute a majority of the population there either. Therefore, HVO units were established and armed in the municipality by April 1992.

Following the recognition of Bosnia as an independent state, the Municipal Assembly in Konjic met for the final time on 17 April 1992. Decisions for the defence of the municipality were undertaken and the Territorial Defence Force (TO) was mobilized. SDS representatives walked out and the assembly ceased to function.

Between 20 April and early May 1992 Bosnian government forces seized control over most of the strategic assets of the Municipality and some armaments. However, Serb forces controlled the main access points to the municipality, effectively cutting it off from Sarajevo and Mostar. In April, the local authorities in Konjic had already organised their forces pursuant to existing defence regulations. Muslim and Croat forces began to arrive in the city of Konjic from surrounding villages, while Serb inhabitants moved to Serb-controlled villages.

On 4 May 1992, the first shells landed in Konjic, thought to be fired by the JNA and other Serb forces from the slopes of Borašnica and Kisera, nearby mountains. This shelling, inflicted substantial damage and resulted in the loss of many lives and continued until the signing of the Dayton accords.

The de-blocking of the routes to Sarajevo and Mostar became a clear priority for Konjic authorities. This required that the Serbian forces holding the nearby villages of Bradina and Donje Selo, as well as those at Borci and other strategic points, be disarmed.

Authorities attempted to negotiate with the principal representative of the Serbian people, the SDS but these apparent negotiations failed. Thereafter, the Konjic defence forces which included the local Croatian Army (HVO) and the Ministry of the Interior (MUP) in addition to the TO, launched a military campaign. At the time, the TO and the HVO had a common interest in uniting against the Serbs and thus co-operated.

Joint Bosniak and Croat military operations