[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Chris Murphy

y said in a statement: "I support withdrawing troops, but we must also rejoin a diplomatic process that the Trump administration has left to other powers, and we need a surge in humanitarian relief. That's the only way we can protect the Syrian people against a Turkish incursion or regime reprisals.

In April 2019, Murphy was one of thirty-four senators to sign a letter to President Trump encouraging him "to listen to members of your own Administration and reverse a decision that will damage our national security and aggravate conditions inside Central America", asserting that Trump had "consistently expressed a flawed understanding of U.S. foreign assistance" since becoming president and that he was "personally undermining efforts to promote U.S. national security and economic prosperity" through preventing the use of Fiscal Year 2018 national security funding. The senators argued that foreign assistance to Central American countries created less migration to the U.S., citing the funding's helping to improve conditions in those countries.

In January 2020, Murphy wrote to FBI Director Christopher A. Wray, urging the FBI to "investigate the allegations" that Saudi Arabia "illegally compromised and stole personal data" from Jeff Bezos, the owner of The Washington Post, as part of a possible effort to "influence, if not silence, the Washington Post’s reporting on Saudi Arabia".

In May 2020, Murphy voiced his opposition to Israel's plan to annex parts of the Israeli-occupied West Bank.

Marijuana

Murphy has a "B" rating from NORML for his voting history regarding cannabis-related causes. In 2016, he voted in favor of the Daines/Merkley Amendment to enable Veterans Administration doctors to discuss the benefits of medical marijuana with their patients. He also voted in favor of the Mikulski Medical Marijuana Amendment, which protects users in states with medical marijuana laws from federal interference.

Immigration 
In July 2019, Murphy and fifteen other Senate Democrats introduced the Protecting Sensitive Locations Act which mandated that ICE agents get approval from a supervisor ahead of engaging in enforcement actions at sensitive locations with the exception of special circumstances and that agents receive annual training in addition to being required to report annually regarding enforcement actions in those locations.

U.S. Supreme Court

After the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade in June 2022, Murphy called the justices that supported the decision "politicians" and that "The Constitution to them is just a fun tool to help them impose their political views on the entire country. The implausible inconsistency of the guns and abortion rulings is both sickening and revealing."

Personal life
Murphy and his wife Catherine (née Holahan) married in August 2007. They have two sons. Raised as a Congregationalist, Murphy identifies as "Protestant/unaffiliated" but said in 2015 that he was "not a regular churchgoer these days, in part, because of kids. In part because of a busy schedule."

Electoral history

References

External links

U.S. Senator Chris Murphy official U.S. Senate website
Chris Murphy for Senate

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1973 births
21st-century American politicians
Alumni of Exeter College, Oxford
American gun control activists
American people of Irish descent
American politicians of Polish descent
Democratic Party Connecticut state senators
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Connecticut
Democratic Party United States senators from Connecticut
Living people
Democratic Party members of the Connecticut House of Representatives
People from Southington, Connecticut
Politicians from White Plains, New York
Politicians from New Haven, Connecticut
University of Connecticut School of Law alumni
Williams College alumni
21st-century American non-fiction writers
Connecticut lawyers