[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# SANU Memorandum

that portended the violent break-up of Yugoslavia in 1991–1992.

According to historian Sima Ćirković, the SANU memorandum should be considered to be "a so called Memorandum" because it was never adopted by the academy, and he claims that calling the document a "memorandum" per se is a manipulation.

Memorandum points
Albanians are committing genocide against Serbs in Kosovo (pgs. 41, 56 of memorandum)
SR Slovenia and SR Croatia are taking control of the Serbian economy. Yugoslavia is taking industry out of SR Serbia (pg. 42)
There is need for constitutional changes of Yugoslavia because of its unfair mistreating and weakening of Serbia (pg. 46)
Anti-Serb discrimination is rampant (pg. 50)
Serbia sacrificed 2.5 million of its citizens in the name of Yugoslavia (in World War I and World War II) and now is a victim of this state (pg. 52)
Between 1690 and 1912, 500,000 Serbs left Kosovo, where Albanians are committing genocide (pg. 56)
Serbs living in Kosovo and Serbs living in Croatia are subjected to discrimination (pg. 58)
Croatian Serbs are in unprecedented danger (pg. 62)
All ethnic Serb writers from Bosnia and Herzegovina are Serb and not Bosnian writers (pg. 65)
The Serbian Question cannot be resolved without the full national and cultural unity of the Serb people of Yugoslavia (pgs. 70–3)
During the last 50 years, Serbs have twice been the victims of destruction, assimilation, forced religious conversion, cultural genocide, ideological indoctrination and saying that they do not have any importance (pgs. 70–3)
If Yugoslavia collapses, Serbia must abide by its own national interests (pg. 73)

Authors
The commission consisted of 16 Serb intellectuals:

 Pavle Ivić
 Antonije Isaković
 Dušan Kanazir
 Mihailo Marković
 Miloš Macura
 Dejan Medaković
 Miroslav Pantić
 Nikola Pantić
 Ljubiša Rakić
 Radovan Samardžić
 Miomir Vukobratović
 Vasilije Krestić
 Ivan Maksimović
 Kosta Mihailović
 Stojan Ćelić
 Nikola Čobeljić

See also
Dobrica Ćosić
Contributions for the Slovenian National Program
Vojko i Savle

References

Sources

External links

  

Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts
1986 documents
1986 in Yugoslavia
1980s in Serbia
Memoranda
History of the Serbs
Serbian nationalism
Yugoslav Serbia