[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Georgios Tsolakoglou

zimikalis turned out to be so corrupt that his wife eventually left him (divorce was not legal in Greece at the time), saying she could not in good conscience go on living with a man who was enriching himself by plundering the public coffers at a time when thousands of Greeks were starving to death.

Italian occupation
Tsolakoglou attempted to prevent an Italian occupation of Greece, telling  Günther Altenburg of the German Foreign Office that the Greeks knew that Germany had defeated Greece, but also that Greece had defeated Italy, and that the Greek people would find an Italian occupation deeply humiliating. Tsolakoglou warned of a collapse in law and order in Greece if the Italians arrived and behaved "like tyrants". In a letter to Hitler, Tsolakoglou warned that allowing the Italians to occupy Greece would "completely undermine the authority of the Greek government". Both the German Foreign Office and the Wehrmacht supported Tsolakogou, saying that Greece could be occupied by minimal German forces if only the Italians were kept out. On 13 May 1941, Hitler ordered the majority of the Wehrmacht forces out of Greece to redeploy them for Operation Barbarossa, to be replaced by the Italians. At the time, Hitler said: "It is none of our business whether the Italian occupation troops can cope with the Greek government or not" as the "German-Italian relationship was of paramount importance". Under the terms of the armistice, the Germans took the strategically important areas such as the Athens area; Thessaloniki and the surrounding area in Greek Macedonia; Crete; the border area with Turkey; and some of the Aegean islands, while leaving the rest of Greece to be occupied by the Italians and the Bulgarians.

Bulgarian annexation of northern Greece
The handing over of part of Macedonia and Thrace to the Bulgarians, the traditional archenemies of the Greeks, ruined the limited amount of legitimacy that the Tsolakoglou government possessed. The fact that the Bulgarians immediately annexed these territories and began expelling Greek officials and ordinary citizens while Tsolakoglou was reduced to writing letters to German and Italian officials fruitlessly asking them to stop the expulsions contributed to his unpopularity and undermined his claim to be protecting the Greeks. Tsolakoglou's opposition to the Bulgarian occupation of Greek Macedonia and Thrace led him to take a tour of northern Greece in the summer of 1942 where he told Greek refugees expelled by the Bulgarians: "Hitler abhors the idea of servitude. He will not allow us to lose any territory! Have heart, you refugees from East Macedonia and Thrace, you will soon return". Tsolakogulou ended his speeches with the phrase "Long live a greater Greece!", which reflected his belief that if he was sufficiently subservient enough, then Hitler would reward him by allowing a "greater Greece" to be created.

Economic policies and the Great Famine
Tsolakoglou's attempts to alleviate the suffering caused by the ruthless German economic exploitation of Greece were completely ineffective. Likewise his attempts to stop the black market from becoming the main form of economic activity were a complete failure. To combat the black market, on 8 May 1941 Tsolakoglou announced the establishment of special courts with powers to impose the death penalty with no appeal on black marketeers whom he accused of hoarding food. The decree did not end the problem of food hoarding and instead Greece experienced what Greeks call the Great Famine in 1941-42 that killed about 300, 000 Greeks as the German occupation authorities continue the requisition of food with no thought for the Greek people. The officials of the Hellenic State gathered up the dead and dumped them into mass graves. Many Greeks at the time believed that those buried in unconsecrated ground would turn into vampire-like creatures known as vrykolakas, leading to complaints that the Hellenic State have failed the living by allowing them to starve to death had now also failed them in death, as many feared the corpses dumped into the mass graves would return as vrykolakas to haunt the living.