[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Phayap Army

combat experience. which in the Greater East Asia War had more problems because the troops had to move long distances into foreign lands with mountainous terrain, tropical dry forest terrain, and inclement weather. As a result, some soldiers in the army fell ill from lack of clothing and medicines.

On 5 June 1942, Major General Phin Choonhavan Commander of the 3rd Infantry Division moved to capture the city of Kengtung, but after a while more than 30 percent of the division's soldiers became ill with malaria and dysentery. Until having to send a telegram for help to the Phayap Army Headquarters to deliver medicines and medical supplies to the soldiers in Kengtung, but with difficult and delayed transportation causing the soldiers to fall ill, up to 50 percent of the whole division. During the 3rd Infantry Division's military occupation of Kengtung, soldiers will have to face disease, also had to face the problem of a shortage of supplies and clothing which in the first phase of the movement of troops of the 3rd Infantry Division from Nakhon Ratchasima Province to Lampang Province each soldier was given only one outfit, because during the Franco-Thai War, the costumes were exhausted.

After capturing all the Shan State areas, The Thai government has established a new Siamese Shan States with Maj. Gen. Phin Choonhavan as governor and promoted from Major General to Lieutenant General. The Royal Thai Armed Forces Supreme Command Headquarters (RTARFSCH) had ordered to establish also set up a field police department to perform administrative duties, law enforcement, maintain order in occupied areas, and suppress the insurgency in the occupied areas. Which these field police sometimes they act in violation of human rights.

Then the Phayap Army began to withdraw from the former Siamese Shan States remaining strength as necessary to support administrative officials, namely the Office of the former Siamese Shan States Military Governor (OSSSMG). Along with the establishment of three courts at Kengtung, Muang Hang, and Muang Sat having the same jurisdiction as provincial courts in Thailand, but the judgments of these three courts are absolute no appeals or petitions. For keeping the peace and law enforcement is the duty of the field police.

When Empire of Japan surrendered on 14 August 1945, the Thai government rushed to declare peace, and returning these territories to the United Kingdom, but in good faith the term "Siamese Shan States" appeared in history only for a short time. The rest of the Phayap Army had to withdraw their forces from the area back to Thailand, and disbanded later.

War crime
After Mom Rajawongse Seni Pramoj, one of the high-ranking members of the Free Thai Movement became prime minister. He issued the War Criminals Act in October 1945 to show the sincerity of Thailand to the people of the world who disagreed with aggression, and represents the independence of the Thai courts to take action against war criminals with the skill of Thai people do not rely on international courts such as Nuremberg or Tokyo. Finally, The Royal Thai Supreme Court ruled that the War Criminals Act of 1945 cannot be retroactive to these individuals, all defendants were acquitted.

Order of battle of Phayap Army 1942