[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Medlow Bath railway station

Medlow Bath railway station is a heritage-listed railway station located on the Main Western line in Medlow Bath in the City of Blue Mountains local government area of New South Wales, Australia. It was designed by NSW Government Railways and built from 1902 to 1922. The property was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999. The station opened on 21 January 1880 as Browns Siding Pulpit Hill, and was renamed Medlow on 1 March 1883 and Medlow Bath on 1 October 1903.

History 
The single track main line from Katoomba to Blackheath was opened in 1868. A halt stop was established at Medlow Bath in 1881. Its initial name was Brown Siding, because of Brown's pioneering sawmill close by in Railway Parade. The station became Medlow in 1883 and Medlow Bath in 1903 with the opening of Mark Foy's Hydro.

The 1881 platform was 30 metres (100 feet) long and was situated on the down side of the single line where the present station is located. Additions to the station buildings were made in 1899, but duplication of the line in 1902 prompted the replacement of the original platform by the present island platform. The existing buildings date from that time and like most stations between Emu Plains and Lithgow, Medlow Bath received a standard Federation style brick building.

Also on the platform is a small timber signal box. An open interlocking frame was erected on the platform in 1909 but evidence suggests that the frame was not covered by the existing structure until . It was taken out of service in 1957 but continued to be used as a store. It is now a rare example of a separate platform level signal box.

An additional siding was built in 1926 and in 1942 the platform was extended at the Sydney end.

The gatekeepers cottage is now privately owned.

Platforms and services
Medlow Bath has one island platform with two sides. It is serviced by NSW TrainLink Blue Mountains Line services travelling from Sydney Central to Lithgow.

Description 
The complex comprises a type 11, island station building "A8" design, brick, completed in 1902; and a gabled roof, timber signal room, completed in . Other structures include a brick faced island platform, completed in 1902; and a footbridge, completed in 1901 and 1994.

Station building (1902)
Constructed of face brick with corrugated metal gabled roof extending as an awning to both platforms, the Medlow Bath station building is an early phase island building in standard "A8" Federation style design. It features 6 bays with linear arrangement along the platform with tuckpointed red brickwork with engaged piers between the bays. Other features include rendered and moulded two rows of string courses, moulded cornice, timber framed windows and doors with contrasting decorative trims and sills, standard iron brackets over decorative corbels supporting ample platform awnings, fretted timber work to both ends of awnings and gable ends, timber finials to gable apex, tall corbelled chimneys, timber framed double-hung windows with multi-paned and coloured upper sashes, and timber door openings with multi-paned fanlights with coloured glazing.

Medlow Bath Station is an unattended station and its interiors are in an abandoned state. The floor layout of the building comprises a booking office, waiting room, ladies waiting and toilets and male toilets with access from the south end of the building. The interiors generally feature custom orb ceilings with ceiling roses, fireplaces with no grates, timber floor boards to main rooms and tiling to toilets, beaded dado line and timber bead style moulded cornices. Toilet fittings are modern.

Signal room ()
A small timber building at the booking office end of the station on axis with the platform. Historical evidence suggest that this weatherboard building covered an interlocking frame, which was originally erected as an open frame. It appears to be used as a store room after being taken out of service in 1957. It has a steep gabled corrugated metal roof, rusticated timber boarding with small four-paned windows on three elevations, and a four-panelled timber door with timber awning on the south elevation.

Island platform (1902)
A typical island platform running north–south, with the buildings located approximately at the centre. The platform is brick faced with a concrete deck and asphalt finish. Two raised round shaped slabs are located to the south of the station building probably for access to the services below the platform. A number of garden beds along the axis of the platform enhance the setting of the station. Modern platform furniture including light fittings, signage, timber bench seating and aluminium palisade fencing at both ends of the platform are other features along the platform.