[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Anatoly Pepelyayev

Anatoly Nikolayevich Pepelyayev (; , in Tomsk – 14 January 1938) was a White Russian general who led the Siberian armies of Admiral Kolchak during the Russian Civil War. His elder brother Viktor Pepelyayev served as Prime Minister in Kolchak's government.

Early life and career
Anatoly Pepelyayev was brought up "in the family of a military man." who was a Lieutenant General in the Imperial Russian Army, by the name of Nikolai Mikhailovich Pepelyayev (05/06/1858-11/20/1916.) and to the daughter merchant by the name of Claudia Nekrasova. He had a total 8 siblings, two of which were his sisters, and the remainder were his brothers.

During his youth, one of his brothers, one Pyotr Nikolaevich, passed away.

Sometime in 1912, Pepelyayev married a woman by the name of Nina Ivanovna Gavronskaya. Born in Nizhneudinsk in 1893, Nina Gavronskaya and Anatoly Pepelyayev had two children, Vsevolod Anatolievich Pepelyaev in 1913, and Lavr Anatolievich Pepelyaev in 1922. Nina Gavronskaya died in 1979.

First World War and the Trans-Siberian march
A graduate of the Omsk Cadets Corps (Graduated in 1908, entered 1902.), followed by his graduation from the Pavlovsk Military School (Graduated in 1910, having joined the same year he graduated the Omsk Cadets Corps.), Pepelyayev took part in World War I at the rank of Lieutenant and distinguished himself at the battles of Przasnysz and Soldau. A group composed of 4 squadrons of mounted scouts from the 42nd Regiment, 11th Siberian Rifle Division, was led by Pepelyaev in mid-September 1915. By the Russian Revolution, he was a Lieutenant Colonel, and took the helm of the White movement in his native Siberian city of Tomsk, raising the 1st Middle Siberian Corps and joining forces with the White Czechs.

In the summer of 1918 Pepelyayev's corps was involved in a remarkable expedition to the east along the Trans-Siberian Railway. It was as a consequence of this expedition that the Whites managed to bring Siberia under their direct control. On 18 June Pepelyayev entered Krasnoyarsk; on 26 August he advanced as far east as Chita. Having crossed Transbaikalia, Pepelyayev's forces linked up with the Amur Cossacks of Grigory Semyonov in early September.

Service under Kolchak
In December, Pepelyayev's forces resumed their high tempo advance, this time to the west. On December 16, 1918, Pepelyaev signed Order No. 049, directing an attack on Perm. His greatest victory was the Capture of Perm, where some roughly 20,000~ Red Army soldiers were taken prisoner on 25 December 1918 following its abandonment. By the evening of the aforementioned 25 of December, the city was under White Army control. These Bolsheviks were reportedly released back to their homes on Pepelyayev's personal orders. For this victory, he was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant General, nicknamed "Siberian Suvorov" (because his accomplishment coincidentally happened just after the 128th anniversary of the capture of the fortress of Izmail by Alexander Suvorov), and, for preliminary accomplishments and this, awarded the Order of St. George of the 3rd degree. Further advances on Vyatka were impeded by heavy frost. As the spring rasputitsa arrived, Pepelyayev's position deteriorated. His armies had outrun their supply lines and were exhausted from many months of incessant warfare, while the Red Army was pouring newly raised troops into the area.

Pepelyayev's taking of Glazov on 2 June 1919 was his last success. During the following months, his First Siberian Army suffered a series of setbacks and fell back on Tobolsk, where they were forced to make a last stand against the Bolsheviks. By the end of the year, the White Army had collapsed into a panic and abandoned Omsk, followed by Tomsk.

Pepelyayev's conflict with Kolchak came to a head in mid-December 1919 when he issued threats to arrest the White admiral. They were reconciled by Viktor Pepelyayev before Anatoly was disabled by typhus and transferred for convalescence to Harbin. The remains of his army joined that of Vladimir Kappel and crossed the frozen Lake Baikal during the Great Siberian Ice March.

"Pepelyayevshchina"

During his stint in Harbin, the former general was employed in menial jobs, including those of carpenter and taxi driver. Still, he harboured the intention of wresting Siberia from the Bolsheviks. On 31 August 1922 Pepelyayev and 553-strong volunteer "druzhina" embarked on the last major operation of the Civil War. They sailed into the Sea of Okhotsk and disembarked at the port of Okhotsk, aiming to penetrate westward into the rugged mountainous country.