[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Callie Torres

ed to be perfect. She was allowed to be as messy as every other character on Grey's Anatomy, and, for everyone who identified with her as a whole or in part, it was a huge relief to see this woman who represented so many perspectives be allowed to just be awesome.|source= Sabienna Bowmna of Bustle}}

Maureen Ryan from the Chicago Tribune was critical about the character's initial development. Reviewing the season 3 premiere, she wrote the writers should give up on Callie explaining they have made her "far too obviously the "weird girl," but there's nothing underneath her brusque persona." Her marriage to O'Malley was well-received; Staci Krause of IGN wrote: "Their relationship has been a roller-coaster and it was nice to see this turn of events, as she really is a perfect contrast to George." Discussing the character in terms of her relationship with Hahn, Williams was largely positive, assessing that: "The storyline offered both the drama Grey's is known for and a truthfulness network television has rarely achieved when it comes to lesbian relationships." Trish Doolan and Nikki Weiss, invited by GLAAD to consult with Grey's Anatomy producers on the storyline, praised the effort put into researching the issue by the writers and actors involved, though were more negative on the scene which saw Hahn kiss Callie in an elevator in front of Mark Sloan. Weiss commented: "I just felt like, if they really cared about each other, I don't think they would do that as a stunt. That seemed a little, I don't know, forced. ... [It] was more like a conquest, like he could have [Hahn] too or something." LGBT website AfterEllen.com agreed with this view, criticizing the way the scene was edited so as to keep cutting to Sloan's point of view, as though "privileging the male-gaze." AfterEllen.com included Torres in their list of the Top 50 Lesbian & Bisexual Characters, ranking her at #6 and in their Top 50 Favorite Female TV Characters. The character was also listed in Wetpaints "10 Hottest TV Doctors on TV".

Commenting on Hahn's abrupt departure from the show, Dorothy Snarker, writing for AfterEllen.com, observed of Torres and Robbins' relationship: "I ... can't help but be wary of how the Grey's writers will handle this relationship. Jessica has proven lovely and likable in her brief screen-time so far. But it's not how the romance starts, but what happens next that really matters." Speaking of the musical episode, Nicole Golden of TV Fanatic called Ramirez's rendition of "Chasing Cars" "amazing" and referred to their performance in Kate Havnevik's "Grace" as "beautiful". Margaret Lyons of New York Magazine was happy with the evolution of Bailey and Torres' friendship in the first-half of season 9, calling it "the one bright-spot": "They joke, they tease each other, they offer sage love advice to one another, now that they're both on their second marriages." Ramirez was nominated for Outstanding Actress in a Drama Television Series at the Alma Awards, in 2007 and 2008. Also in 2007, at the 13th Screen Actors Guild Awards, Ramirez and the cast of Grey's Anatomy, were the recipients of the Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series. They and the cast were nominated for the same award, in 2008. In 2011, at the 42nd NAACP Image Awards, Ramirez was nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series. They were ranked at #7 in AfterEllen.com's list of "Top 50 Favorite Female TV Characters"

 Notes 

ReferencesSpecificGeneral'''

External links
 Callie Torres at ABC.com

Grey's Anatomy characters
Television characters introduced in 2006
Fictional bisexual women
Fictional female doctors
Fictional LGBT characters in television
Fictional surgeons
Female characters in television