[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Tal Ben-Shahar

Tal Ben-Shahar (Hebrew: טל בן-שחר; born 1970), also known as Tal David Ben-Shachar, is an American and Israeli teacher, and writer in the areas of positive psychology and leadership. As a lecturer at Harvard University, Ben-Shahar created the most popular course in Harvard's history. He has subsequently written several best-selling books and in 2011 co-founded Potentialife with Angus Ridgway, a company that provides leadership programs.

Early life and education
Ben-Shahar has a bachelor's degree from Harvard in Philosophy and Psychology and received his PhD in Organizational Behavior from Harvard University in 2004  with his dissertation, "Restoring Self-Esteem's Self-Esteem: The Constructs of Dependent and Independent Competence and Worth."

Career
Ben-Shahar consults and lectures internationally in topics including leadership, ethics, happiness, and mindfulness. In 2011, Ben-Shahar co-founded Potentialife to bring positive psychology to people's daily lives.

He is the author of the international best sellers Happier and Being Happy, which have been translated into 25 languages. He has also written two children's books in collaboration with Shirly Yuval-Yair in Hebrew; one about Helen Keller and the other about Thomas Edison. The books aim to teach children about happiness.

He is the narrator of the 2012 documentary Israel Inside: How a Small Nation Makes a Big Difference, produced by Raphael Shore.

Ben-Shahar taught at Harvard, where his classes on Positive Psychology and The Psychology of Leadership were among the most popular courses in the university's history.

Publications 
 Being Happy: You Don't Have to Be Perfect to Lead a Richer, Happier Life (2010) originally published in hardcover as The Pursuit of Perfect (2010)
 Happier: Learn the Secrets to Daily Joy and Lasting Fulfillment (2007)
 A Clash of Values: The Struggle for Universal Freedom (2002)
 Heaven Can Wait: Conversations With Bonny Hicks (1998)

References

Books
Tal Ben-Shahar (2007) Happier: Learn the Secrets to Daily Joy and Lasting Fulfillment, McGraw-Hill Professional. 
Tal Ben-Shahar (2009) The Pursuit of Perfect: How to Stop Chasing Perfection and Start Living a Richer, Happier Life, McGraw-Hill Professional. 
Tal Ben-Shahar (2010) Even Happier: A Gratitude Journal for Daily Joy and Lasting Fulfillment, McGraw-Hill Professional.

External links
 https://www.happinessstudies.academy/
 Potentialife Limited
 Personal http://www.talbenshahar.com

Positive psychologists
Harvard College alumni
Academic staff of Reichman University
American self-help writers
1970 births
Living people
Israeli Jews
Jewish agnostics
Harvard Extension School faculty
Harvard University Department of Psychology faculty