[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Mărășești

remely heavy casualties, stating that they "had not come across such stiff resistance since the battles of the Somme and Verdun".

On 16 August Romanian troops checked a German advance north of Panciu. Between 17 and 18 August, besides some local skirmishes, the forces in the field mainly regrouped.

The Romanian 1st Army deployed 53 Romanian and 21 Russian light batteries and 19 heavy batteries. On 19 August, the Battle of Mărășești reached its peak, the German attack being simultaneous with the attack from Oituz, obviously attempting to encircle the Romanian and Russian forces. The formidable artillery bombardment began at daybreak, with gas shells fired mainly against the Romanian divisions. The Central Powers attacked with 4 German and 1 Austro-Hungarian divisions, against the Romanian 9th, 10th and 13th and Russian 14th and 103rd Divisions. The main blow was directed 3 km (1.8 miles) east of Mărășești, and the Germans advanced 2 km (1.2 miles) in the middle of the Romanian position, towards the Siret Valley, only to be pushed back with heavy losses by a converging counterattack. Guided by aircraft and balloons observation, the Romanian artillery inflicted heavy losses in combat and materiel. The Germans launched a powerful attack on Mărășești, but only reached the railway station on the outskirts of the town.

On 22 August, the Central Powers ceased their offensive, organized for defense, and settled into trench warfare. On 23 August, the Germans started bringing up more artillery.

On 28 August, Mackensen launched another attack, causing the Russians to leave the battlefield in large numbers after showing little resistance. The Romanians were able to reinforce their lines before Mackensen could exploit the Russian collapse, completely stopping his advance.

This was the most important battle ever fought by the Romanian Army, as it managed to completely stop Mackensen's intended invasion of Moldavia. Mackensen halted the attack on 3 September in order to transfer troops to the Italian Front. The Germans had pushed forward 6–7 km (3.7–4.3 miles) along a front of 30 km (18.6 miles), but at great cost and without achieving any major objective. German casualties (killed, wounded and missing) amounted to around 60,000 men, while Romanian casualties amounted to 27,000.

Aftermath
In March 1918, Russia signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk after Austrian-German forces had captured huge territories in the Baltics, Belarus, and Ukraine in February. That left Romania surrounded by the Central Powers and forced them to sign an armistice and the Treaty of Bucharest.

Gallery

See also
 Battle of Mărăști
 Kázím Abdulakim
 Mausoleum of Mărășești
 Romania during World War I

References

External links
 Nițu, Victor. website: Worldwar2.ro: The battle of Mărășești

Mărășești
Marasesti
Marasesti
Marasesti
Marasesti
History of Western Moldavia
Marașești
Mar
August 1917 events
September 1917 events