[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Night shark

The night shark (Carcharhinus signatus) is a species of requiem shark, in the family Carcharhinidae, found in the temperate and tropical waters of the Atlantic Ocean. An inhabitant of the outer continental shelf and upper continental slope, this shark most commonly occurs at depths of  and conducts a diel vertical migration, spending the day in deeper water and moving into shallower waters at night. Off northeastern Brazil, large numbers congregate around seamounts of varying depths. A slender, streamlined species, the night shark typically reaches a length of . It can be identified by its long, pointed snout and large, green eyes (when alive), and is dark grayish blue or brown above and white below.

Night sharks are quick, nocturnally active, schooling predators that feed mainly on small bony fishes and squid. Reproduction is viviparous as with the other members of its family; females mate during the summer and give birth to litters of usually 12–18 pups after a gestation period of a year. This deepwater species is not known to pose a danger to humans. It is caught incidentally by commercial tuna and swordfish longline fisheries in the western Atlantic, and also by a targeted longline fishery operating off northeastern Brazil. The night shark is highly valued for its fins, and additionally as a source of meat, liver oil, and fishmeal. However, most sharks caught off northeastern Brazil have been found to contain unsafe concentrations of mercury.

Because of its low reproductive rate and historically documented declines in areas such as the Caribbean, the night shark has been assessed as vulnerable by the American Fisheries Society. A population assessment has indicated that this species is secure in the waters off the United States, but this may not be true elsewhere.

Taxonomy
The first scientific description of the night shark was published by Cuban zoologist Felipe Poey in 1868, as part of a series of papers entitled Repertorio fisico-natural de la isla de Cuba. He based his description on a single set of jaws and gave it the name Hypoprion signatus. In 1973, Leonard Compagno synonymized the genus Hypoprion with Carcharhinus. No type specimen has been designated for this species. Its common name is because it is mostly captured at night.

Distribution and habitat
The distribution of the night shark extends along the outer continental shelves and upper continental slopes of the Atlantic Ocean, from the U.S. state of Massachusetts to Argentina in the west, including the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea, and from Senegal to northern Namibia in the east. In United States waters, it is relatively common off North Carolina and Florida (particularly the Florida Straits) and rarer elsewhere. There are questionable reports of this species off the Pacific coast of Panama.

The night shark is a deepwater species that has been reported from as far down as , though it occasionally ventures to within  of the surface. Off the southeastern United States, it is usually caught at a depth range of . Off northeastern Brazil, the night shark is most commonly found near the summits of seamounts ranging from  deep. Off West Africa, it occurs at depths of , where the temperature is 11–16 °C (52–61 °F), the salinity is 36 ppt, and the dissolved oxygen level is 1.81 mL/L. Annual variation in Cuban catch rates may indicate a seasonal migration.

Description
The night shark has a slender build with an elongated, pointed snout. The nares are flanked by moderately developed flaps of skin. The eyes are large, circular, and green in life, with irregularly shaped pupils and a nictitating membrane (protective third eyelid). The mouth lacks conspicuous furrows at the corners and usually bears 15 tooth rows on either side of both jaws, plusone to two upper and one lower symphysial (jaw midline) tooth rows. Each upper tooth has a smooth to serrated edge, a narrow cusp becoming more oblique towards the corner of the mouth, and two to five coarse serrations at the base of the trailing margin. The number and size of serrations on the leading margin of the tooth cusp increase relative to those on the trailing margin as the animal grows older. The lower teeth are upright and smooth-edged. The five pairs of gill slits are rather short.