[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Grand River land dispute

No. 3 – Pilkington Township in Wellington County, and Woolwich Township (incorporated in 1816)
 Block No. 4 – Nichol Township in Wellington County (opened for settlement in 1822)
 Block No. 5 – Moulton Township in Haldimand County
 Block No. 6 – Canborough Township in Haldimand County

19th century 

 1801 – All of the land speculators have fallen behind in their payments due to being unable to sell farm-size lots to settlers fast enough to keep up.
 1828 – Nearly two thirds of the Grand River territory has been sold, leased, or occupied by squatters.
 1835 – The Crown approaches the Six Nations about developing the Port Dover-Hamilton Plank Road (now Highway 6) and the surrounding area. The Six Nations agree to lease half a mile of land on each side for the road but did not surrender the land. Lieutenant-Governor John Colborne agrees to the lease but later, his successor, Sir Francis Bond Head, does not.
 1840 – The government recommends that a reserve of approximately  be established on the south side of the Grand River and the rest sold or leased to the Crown in order to protect them from encroaching squatters.
 January 18, 1841 – According to the Crown, the Six Nations council agrees to surrender for sale all the lands outside those set aside for a reserve, on the agreement that the government would sell the land and invest the money for them.
 February 4, 1841 – The Six Nations petition against the surrender of land, saying the chiefs had been intimidated and deceived and they had agreed only to lease the land.
 July 7, 1841 – There is another petition against the surrender.
 1843 – A further petition to the Crown says the Six Nations need a reserve of  and want to keep and lease a tier of lots on each side of Plank Road (Highway 6) and several other tracts of land within the territory laid out by the Haldimand Proclamation.
1843 – Plank Road is completed, which helps to "spur the growth of Caledonia but also the sale of Six Nations lands."
 December 18, 1844 – A surrender is signed by 47 Six Nations chiefs that authorizes the sale of land to build Plank Road.
 1845 – Starting this year, despite the protests of Six Nations citizens, the Crown sells Plank Road and surrounding lands to third parties.
 May 15, 1848 – The land that would later be the site of the development of Douglas Creek Estates is sold to George Marlot Ryckman for 57 pounds and 10 shillings; a Crown deed of title is issued to him.
 1850 – The Crown passes a proclamation setting the extent of reserve lands to about , which is agreed to by the Six Nations chiefs.

20th century 

 1924 – Under the Indian Act, the Government of Canada establishes an elected band government on the Six Nations reserve, known today as the Six Nations of the Grand River Elected Council. The establishment of a band council is characterised by some as a coup, not least of all due to the use of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to ensure the transition of power at Six Nations.
 1931 – The Statute of Westminster is put into effect; the parliament of the United Kingdom relinquishes the ability to legislate on behalf of Canada. All Canadian First Nations affairs are now fully within the jurisdiction of the Canadian Crown.
 1974 – The Six Nations Land Claims Research Office (SNLCRO) is created by Six Nations to pursue the terms laid out in the Haldimand Proclamation.
 1974–1995 – SNLCRO submits 29 separate land claims to the Specific Claims Branch of Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada.
 1995 – After only one of the 29 submitted land claims is resolved, the Government of Canada closes the rest (including those already validated for negotiation), because they receive notice of pending litigation from Six Nations.

Canadian National Railway Settlement 
In 1980, the Six Nations Council, along with SNLCRO, submitted a claim to Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada against Canadian National Railway's unauthorized use of reserve land for a stretch of rail that runs along the eastern end of the reserve (near the site of the later Douglas Creek Estates dispute). The First Nation eventually accepted a settlement in 1987 that consisted of $610,000 in the form of three parcels of land added to the reserve, which added approximately . The council also retained the right to purchase said railway lands if they were not used for railway purposes and were re-acquired by Canada.

Douglas Creek Estates (Kanonhstaton)