[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Saeid Lotfi (footballer, born 1981)

in 2002 and Tehran in 2001 with the Iranian national football team.

Loss of playing opportunity at Inter Milan

Loss of playing opportunity at Inter Milan

Saeid Lotfi has repeatedly spoken to the media about his frustration with a foot injury and the loss of an opportunity to play for Inter Milan.

He says about the bitter memory of the injury and breaking his leg on the eve of flying to Italy and attending the medical test of Inter Milan Italy : In the friendly match of Omid national team with Tehran pass, which coincided with my captaincy in Omid national team and being fixed in our country's adult team, in two or three minutes of the match, Javad Nekounam broke my leg with a harsh tackle. Of course, I am not upset about this injury, but I did not understand his motive that he had said many times that I had intentionally hit him. This coincided with the sending of an invitation from Inter Milan and the sending of a plane ticket to attend the club's medical test, but that injury prevented me from traveling four days before the flight due to a broken leg. I still have the visa and the ticket that Inter Milan sent me. During the training sessions of the Iranian national football team before the match with Ireland during the qualifying matches for the 2002 World Cup, Michael Walsh, who was an agent, came to watch the match between Hamed Kavianpour and Mehrdad Minavand and sign a contract with them, that night they signed a contract with us. With the coordination of Abbas Torabian, the former head of the Iranian national football team, I was supposed to sign a contract with Inter Milan. "It was as if I lost one of the greatest chances of my life."

Farewell to football

Farewell to football

After Saeid Lotfi  contract with the Hamedan Pass team, one of the Premier League coaches had asked him for money to sign the 30-year-old player, and this caused Lotfi to say goodbye to football very soon. He had said that if an ordinary player and a national team player were to pay both, then it would be better for me to say goodbye to football. A year later, Amir Ghalehnoei called Lotfi and offered to play, but he was so upset that he never returned to the football field and sought coaching.

Coaching

Coaching

Saeid Lotfi's coaching period began in 2014-2015 with Esteghlal youth team and Ali Samereh assistant. The following year, when Samereh became the head coach of the Omid Esteghlal team, Lotfi took over as the head coach of the Esteghlal youth team. He also received C coaching degree in that year, and then began his collaboration with Mahmoud Fekri in the Iranian First Division Football League and in the Masjed Soleyman Naft team in the 2016-2017 season. At the end of the 2017-2018 season of the first division league, Fekri, with the help of Saeid Lotfi, was able to bring this Khuzestan’s team to the Premier League with authority, and in that season, Masjed Soleiman Naft team was at the top of the table for 34 weeks. This coincided with Saeid Lotfi receiving an A coaching degree in Asia. In the 2018-2019 season, he again became Mahmoud Fekri's assistant in the Shahin Bushehr team, which advanced to the Premier League after the team won the Premier League. At the end of the same season, he took charge of Persepolis Pakdasht, and after a few weeks of coaching in this team, at the end of the league, he became Mohsen Ashouri's assistant in Khoshe Talaee team. In the 2020-2021 season of the Premier League, he once again became the assistant of Mahmoud Fekri in the Masjed Soleyman oil team, and after leaving this team, he is now the assistant of Omid Ravankhah in the Saipa team, in the first division of the national football league.

Honours 
Esteghlal:

 Iran Pro League Winner: 1
 2005/06 with Esteghlal

References

1981 births
Paykan F.C. players
Living people
Footballers from Tehran
Iranian men's footballers
Esteghlal F.C. players
Iran men's international footballers
PAS Tehran F.C. players
Persian Gulf Pro League players
Asian Games gold medalists for Iran
Asian Games medalists in football
Footballers at the 2002 Asian Games
Men's association football defenders
Medalists at the 2002 Asian Games