[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Prostitution in Asia

night. Jalan Alor, Jalan Hicks, and Jalan Thamibipilly in the Brickfields area are red-light districts. Street walkers operate around Jalan Petaling.

Myanmar

Prostitution in Myanmar (also known as Burma) is illegal. Prostitution is a major social issue that particularly affects women and children.

Burma is a major source of prostitutes (an estimate of 25,000–30,000) in Thailand, with the majority of women trafficked taken to Ranong, bordering south Burma, and Mae Sai, at the eastern tip of Burma. Burmese sex workers also operate in Yunnan, China, particularly the border town of Ruili. The majority of Burmese prostitutes in Thailand are from ethnic minorities. Sixty percent of Burmese prostitutes are under 18 years of age. Burma is also a source country of sex workers and forced labourers in China, Bangladesh, Taiwan, India, Malaysia, Korea, Macau, and Japan. Internal trafficking of women for the purpose of prostitution occurs from rural villages to urban centres, military camps, border towns, and fishing villages.

Philippines

Prostitution in the Philippines is illegal, although somewhat tolerated among society, with law enforcement being rare with regards to sex workers. Penalties range up to life imprisonment for those involved in trafficking, which is covered by the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2003. Prostitution is often available through bars, karaoke bars (also known as KTVs), massage parlors, brothels (also known as casa), street walkers, and escort services.

Singapore

Prostitution in Singapore in itself is not illegal, but various prostitution-related activities are criminalised. This includes public solicitation, living on the earnings of a prostitute and maintaining a brothel. In practice, police unofficially tolerate and monitor a limited number of brothels. Prostitutes in such establishments are required to undergo periodic health checks and must carry a health card.

Thailand

Prostitution in Thailand is technically illegal, but because of police corruption, prostitution remains common. Prostitution operates clandestinely in many parts of the country.

The precise number of prostitutes is difficult to assess. Estimates vary widely and are subject to national and international controversy. Since the Vietnam War, Thailand has gained international notoriety among travellers from many countries as a sex tourism destination.

Timor-Leste

Prostitution in Timor-Leste is legal, but soliciting and third party involvement for profit or to facilitate prostitution is forbidden. Prostitution has become a problem since the country gained independence from Indonesia, especially in the capital, Dili. There are estimated to be 1,688 sex workers in the country.

Law enforcement is weak, but there are occasional clampdowns. Foreign sex workers are usually targeted, and are often deported. Public order laws are also used against prostitutes.

Many of the local prostitutes have entered the sex trade due to poverty and lack of other employment. Foreign prostitutes, especially from Indonesia, China and the Philippines, enter the country on 90-day tourists visas.

Vietnam

Prostitution in Vietnam is illegal and considered a serious crime. The government has estimated that there were 33,000 prostitutes in the country in 2013, this was 9% higher than the previous year's estimate. Other estimates puts the number at up to 200,000 individuals.

Sex workers organisations report that law enforcement is abusive and corrupt.

West Asia

Armenia

In Armenia, prostitution is illegal under administrative law (Article 179.1). Related activities such as running a brothel and pimping are prohibited by the Criminal Code, although there are known to be brothels in the capital, Yerevan, and in Gyumri. According to UNESCO, since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, prostitution in the country has grown. There are about 5,600 women involved in prostitution in Armenia, roughly 1,500 of them are in Yerevan. However, official police figures are far lower, for example 240 in 2012. Police and other safety forces reportedly tolerate prostitution. Many women turn to prostitution due to unemployment.

Azerbaijan

Prostitution in Azerbaijan is illegal but common. Prostitution is an administrative offence and punishable by a fine. Keeping a brothel is a criminal offence and punishable by up to 6 years imprisonment. In 2017 a draft law proposing to add heavy fines to the punishment for keeping a brothel was before the National Assembly. It has been estimated that there are 25 054 prostitutes in Azerbaijan, some of which are aged 15  – 18.

Bahrain

Prostitution in Bahrain is illegal but has gained a reputation in the Middle East as major destination for sex tourism. The Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights reported in 2007 that there were more than 13,500 prostitutes in the country and that the number was rising.

Sex trafficking is a problem in the country.

Cyprus