[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lone Wolf the Younger

Lone Wolf the Younger, also known as Gui-pah-gho the Younger, or the Elk Creek Lone Wolf ( - 1923) was a Kiowa and warrior originally named Mamay-day-te.After a raid he was given the name Gui-pah-gho by Gui-pah-gho the Elder after avenging the death of Tau-ankia, the only son of Gui-pah-gho the Elder. Mamay-day-te participated in a raid avenging deaths and counted his first coup during the attack. Lone Wolf the Younger led the Kiowa resistance to United States governmental influence on the reservation, which culminated in the Supreme Court case Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock.

Lone Wolf was the son of Audlekoety (Big Black Hair) and Paugei-to (Pursuing Them Along A River). He was a full brother to Saudlekongeah (Black Turtle), Bolekonegeah (Black Goose) aka. Chaddlekaungy-ky, Hovekah (Jack Wolf) and Tanequoot (Spottedbird). They comprised a large and influential Kiowa family from the western part of the KCA Reservation.

Lone Wolf the Younger lived along with his Kiowa followers in the northern part of the reservation near Mount Scott and the Elk and Rainy Mountain creeks.  The Indian Agents for the reservation called Lone Wolf and his followers "The Implacables" due to their strong opposition to governmental policies. They opposed the government at every turn and fought to keep their children out of government run schools and they resisted being turned into farmers and Christians. Lone Wolf and his group particularly opposed the General Allotment Act or the Dawes Act which was enacted in 1887.

Jerome Commission
The Jerome Commission was one of fifteen commissions working throughout Indian Country to allot Indian lands and to open up the last part of the United States to white settlers.  The Jerome Commission came to the Kiowa, Comanche, Plains Apache's (commonly referred to as the KCA) Reservation in 1892 to gain Indian approval to change the Medicine Lodge Treaty assurances and Indian consent to the opening of the reserve to white settlers.  The Indians of the KCA reserve unanimously opposed allotment as well as any further railroad rights of way through their lands; they wanted their lands to be left as they were.  The commission worked to convince the KCA tribes that they only needed 500,000 acres of land to sustain their needs and the other 2.6 million acres should be opened up for sale. David Jerome assured them that living on the new allotments would not be any different than their current life on the reservation.  Lone Wolf attended the first two days of meetings to hear what the commissioners had to say and responded for the Kiowas on September 28.  Lone Wolf explained that the tribes were working to change the way they had lived their lives and had made progress.  Lone Wolf emphasized that if forced to take allotments it would be detrimental to the Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache tribes and that the tribes had decided they did not want to allot the lands currently in their possession on the reservation.  They did not want to divert from the Medicine Lodge Treaty's terms and accept allotment.
After much debating on both sides the Jerome Commissioners left for Washington, D.C. confident they had obtained the necessary signatures of three-fourths of the adult male Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache residents of the reservation as agreed upon in the 1867 Medicine Lodge Treaty.
Lone Wolf and the members of the KCA tribes believed the signatures needed had not been met and that many of the signatures obtained were falsified.

Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock

Preceding the court case
With the assistance of the Indian Rights Association, Lone Wolf and the Kiowa people lobbied against the ratification of the Jerome Agreement by Congress.  The basis for the Indian Rights Associations support was that they felt the Agreement was wrongly imposed upon the Indians, it had false signatures, and in effect the lands were being taken without compensation and the size of the allotments offered to the Indians was not adequate to support them.
Despite the various protests, in 1900 Congress added the substantially amended Jerome document as Section 6 to the Fort Hall Agreement of June 6 and passed the legislation allotting the Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache reserve and opened the reservation's surplus lands to white settlers.  Under the terms of the Act of June 6, 1900, the United States took over title to over 2.9 million acres of the KCA Reservation.