[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Rugao

he rural regions, a better life was provided to the general populace than to that of Japanese-occupied regions. The general Chinese populace agreed that the communists deserved to represent China, to accept the invaders' surrender in the region, and to take over the regions occupied by the invaders.

Battle
After the former nationalist forces that turned to the Japanese puppet regime and then rejoined the nationalists after World War II had refused to surrender to the communists, the only Chinese forces in the region were under the command of Chiang Kai-shek. A unit of the communist New Fourth Army, from the 4th Sub-Military Region of the communist Central Jiangsu Military Region, launched its offensive in Rugao, Jiangsu, China against those units. Unable to fend off the communist attack and without any popular support from the local populace, the entire nationalist Independent Brigade of the Second Front Army garrisoning Rugao, totaling more than 3,000, was completely annihilated. Everyone, including the commander Kong Ruiwu (孔瑞五) and the deputy com生) was either killed or captured alive. The communists also capture two mortars, 22 machine guns, and more than 2,600 other firearms.

Aftermath
As in similar post-World War II clashes between the communists and the nationalists in China, the conflict showed that Chiang Kai-shek's attempt to solve simultaneously the warlord problem that had plagued China for so long and the problem of the extermination of communism proved fatal. The result of the campaign turned out exactly as Chiang and his subordinates had predicted, and consequently the power of the warlords in this region was indeed reduced as their military forces were smashed by the communists. The warlord problem was thus reduced for that particular region. But while Chiang's secondary objective was achieved, any gains obtained by the nationalists were negated by the political fallout. The success of achieving the secondary objective came at a huge cost in nationalists' loss of popular support in the region, which had been dominated by the Japanese, because the local population had already blamed nationalists for losing the regions to the Japanese invaders. It also reassigned the former Japanese puppet regime forces as the nationalist forces to fight the communists, the only Chinese force left in the regions, which further alienated the local populace and strengthened the popular resentment to Chiang's nationalist regime.

See also
List of battles of the Chinese Civil War
National Revolutionary Army
History of the People's Liberation Army
Chinese Civil War

References

Zhu, Zongzhen and Wang, Chaoguang, Liberation War History, 1st Edition, Social Scientific Literary Publishing House in Beijing, 2000,  (set)
Zhang, Ping, History of the Liberation War, 1st Edition, Chinese Youth Publishing House in Beijing, 1987,  (pbk.)
Jie, Lifu, Records of the Liberation War: The Decisive Battle of Two Kinds of Fates, 1st Edition, Hebei People's Publishing House in Shijiazhuang, 1990,  (set)
Literary and Historical Research Committee of the Anhui Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Liberation War, 1st Edition, Anhui People's Publishing House in Hefei, 1987, 
Li, Zuomin, Heroic Division and Iron Horse: Records of the Liberation War, 1st Edition, Chinese Communist Party History Publishing House in Beijing, 2004, 
Wang, Xingsheng, and Zhang, Jingshan, Chinese Liberation War, 1st Edition, People's Liberation Army Literature and Art Publishing House in Beijing, 2001,  (set)
Huang, Youlan, History of the Chinese People's Liberation War, 1st Edition, Archives Publishing House in Beijing, 1992, 
Liu Wusheng, From Yan'an to Beijing: A Collection of Military Records and Research Publications of Important Campaigns in the Liberation War, 1st Edition, Central Literary Publishing House in Beijing, 1993, 
Tang, Yilu and Bi, Jianzhong, History of Chinese People's Liberation Army in Chinese Liberation War, 1st Edition, Military Scientific Publishing House in Beijing, 1993 – 1997,  (Volum 1), 7800219615 (Volum 2), 7800219631 (Volum 3), 7801370937 (Volum 4), and 7801370953 (Volum 5)

Conflicts in 1945
Rugao
1945 in China
Military history of Jiangsu