[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 14]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

them both to be put on board a ship, and
carried to a distant country, which was inhabited by a rude and savage
kind of men, who lived in huts, were strangers to riches, and got their
living by fishing.

"As soon as they were set on shore, the sailors left them as they had
been ordered, and the inhabitants of the country came round them in
great numbers. The rich man, seeing himself thus exposed, without
assistance or defence, in the midst of a barbarous people, whose
language he did not understand, and in whose power he was, began to cry
and wring his hands in the most abject manner; but the poor
basket-maker, who had always been accustomed to hardships and dangers
from his infancy, made signs to the people that he was their friend, and
was willing to work for them, and be their servant. Upon this the
natives made signs to them that they would do them no hurt, but would
make use of their assistance in fishing and carrying wood.

"Accordingly, they led them both to a wood at some distance, and showing
them several logs, ordered them to transport them to their cabins. They
both immediately set about their tasks, and the poor man, who was strong
and active, very soon had finished his share; while the rich man, whose
limbs were tender and delicate, and never accustomed to any kind of
labour, had scarcely done a quarter as much. The savages, who were
witnesses to this, began to think that the basket-maker would prove very
useful to them, and therefore presented him with a large portion of
fish, and several of their choicest roots; while to the rich man they
gave scarcely enough to support him, because they thought him capable
of being of very little service to them; however, as he had now fasted
several hours, he ate what they gave him with a better appetite than he
had ever felt before at his own table.

"The next day they were set to work again; and as the basket-maker had
the same advantage over his companion, he was highly caressed and well
treated by the natives, while they showed every mark of contempt towards
the other, whose delicate and luxurious habits had rendered him very
unfit for labour.

"The rich man now began to perceive with how little reason he had before
valued himself, and despised his fellow-creatures; and an accident that
fell out shortly after, tended to complete his mortification. It
happened that one of the savages had found something like a fillet, with
which he adorned his forehead, and seemed to think himself extremely
fine; the basket-maker, who had perceived this appearance of vanity,
pulled up some reeds, and, sitting down to work, in a short time
finished a very elegant wreath, which he placed upon the head of the
first inhabitant he chanced to meet. This man was so pleased with his
new acquisition, that he danced and capered with joy, and ran away to
seek the rest, who were all struck with astonishment at this new and
elegant piece of finery. It was not long before another came to the
basket-maker, making signs that he wanted to be ornamented like his
companion; and with such pleasure were these chaplets considered by the
whole nation, that the basket-maker was released from his former
drudgery, and continually employed in weaving them. In return for the
pleasure which he conferred upon them, the grateful savages brought him
every kind of food their country afforded, built him a hut, and showed
him every demonstration of gratitude and kindness. But the rich man, who
possessed neither talents to please nor strength to labour, was
condemned to be the basket-maker's servant, and to cut him reeds to
supply the continual demand for chaplets.

"After having passed some months in this manner, they were again
transported to their own country, by the orders of the magistrate, and
brought before him. He then looked sternly upon the rich man, and
said:--'Having now taught you how helpless, contemptible, and feeble a
creature you are, as well as how inferior to the man you insulted, I
shall proceed to make reparation to him for the injury you have
inflicted upon him. Did I treat you as you deserve, I should take from
you all the riches that you possess, as you wantonly deprived this poor
man of his whole subsistence, but, hoping that you will become more
humane for the future, I sentence you to give half your fortune to this
man, whom you endeavoured to ruin.'

"Upon this the basket-maker said, after thanking the magistrate for his
goodness:--'I, having been bred up in poverty, and accustomed to labour,
have no desire to acquire riches, which I should not know how to use;
all, therefore, that I require of this man is, to put me into the same
situation I was in before, and to learn more humanity.'

"The rich man could not help being astonished at this generosity, and,
having acquired wisdom by his misfortunes, not only treated the
basket-maker as a friend during the rest of his life, but employed his
riches in