[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fire controlman

am separate from the general Fire Controlman rating. 

The fire controlman rating insignia is a coincidence or stereoscopic rangefinder, with two lightning bolts (called "sparks") signifying the technical skills required.  The lightning bolts were introduced when the rate was re-established in 1985.

FCs maintain the control systems used in aiming and firing weapons on all equipped ships. Complex computers, electronics, and electrical and hydraulic equipment are required to ensure the accuracy of guided missile, surface, and anti-aircraft fire control systems.  FCs are responsible for the operation, routine care, and repair of this equipment, which includes radars, computers, weapons-direction equipment, target-designation systems, gyroscopes, and rangefinders.

The fire controlman's creed
I am a Fire Controlman, a Petty Officer of the United States Navy. My work is the operation and maintenance of the weapons aboard the fighting ships of the Navy.

I am required to know, operate, and maintain intricate scientific precision instruments. To do this, I must have a thorough knowledge of the work of an Electronics Technician, Machinist's Mate, Gunner's Mate, Machinery Repairman, Operations Specialist, and Engineman.

My aim in life is to know my job; to know everything that pertains to practical gunnery and ordnance.

As long as there is any operation or piece of equipment I do not fully understand, my job is not complete.
  
In the event of war, I must be prepared for any emergency.

I must be capable of and competent to fill my station, or perform any operation in the weapons department of my ship; to assume command of, spot, or control the fire of any battery.
 
In addition to being competent to perform any operation, I will strive to know my maintenance duties so well that I may maintain the battle efficiency of my ship, even on a darkened ship, under enemy fire.  

This to the end ... that the ship may fight as long as she is afloat!

See also
List of United States Navy ratings

References

United States Navy ratings