[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sager orphans

ge (Orville Pratt) instructed the jury to treat the fact that the Cayuse had turned these five men over for Whitman's death as an admission of guilt, and the jury found them guilty; but the populace of the Oregon Territory considered them sufficiently believable and sympathetic that the recently elected first governor of the territory, Joseph Lane, who had arranged this trial as one of his first acts in office, resigned over the controversy, and his replacement, Kintzing Prichette, vowed to pardon them. However, Orville Pratt scheduled their execution for before Prichette obtained the ability to act on this vow, and overruled U.S. Marshall Joseph Meek's attempt to delay the hanging given the pending pardon. Elizabeth Sager testified at the trial, but she only testified that she had seen one of them attempt to throw down Luke Saunders, in the same incident that Catherine wrote about looking away from while Luke Saunders was still alive. 

Eleven people at the mission died from the attack and had their bodies found, including Marcus, Narcissa, John Sager, and Francis Sager, who was there that day to bring up a cow from the valley for them to slaughter for meat. Three other men from the mission were not seen afterwards; and are sometimes counted as having died during the attack. Fifty-four women and children were captured and held for ransom, including the daughters of Joseph Meek and Jim Bridger and all the Sager girls. Several of the prisoners died in captivity, mostly from the same measles epidemic that was ravaging the Cayuse, including Louisa Sager who died on Dec. 5, 1847, at the age of six, and Helen Mar Meek who had been bedridden with measles on November 29. One month after the massacre, on December 29, 1847, Peter Skene Ogden from the Hudson's Bay Company arranged an exchange of sixty-two blankets, sixty-three cotton shirts, twelve rifles, six hundred loads of ammunition, seven pounds of tobacco, and twelve flints for the return of the forty-nine surviving prisoners. They were brought to Fort Vancouver.

After the Whitman massacre 

The four remaining Sager orphans were brought to Oregon City. The girls were split up and grew up with different families. 
 Catherine was placed with the Rev. William and Mrs. Roberts. In October 1851, she married Clark Pringle, a Methodist minister, at which time Elizabeth and Henrietta went to live with the Pringles. They had a farm of about 640 acres near Salem, Oregon, and raised eight children. About ten years after her arrival in Oregon she wrote an account of the Sager family's journey west. She hoped to earn enough money to set up an orphanage in memory of Narcissa Whitman. She never found a publisher. She died on August 10, 1910, at the age of 75. Her children and grandchildren saved her manuscript without modification, and today it is regarded as one of the most authentic accounts of the American westward migration.

In 1855, Elizabeth married farmer William Fletcher Helm and had nine children. She lived in Prineville, Oregon. She died in Portland, Oregon, on July 19, 1925, at the age of 88.

Matilda had five children by her first husband, who was a miner. After his death, she married Matthew Fultz, a farmer, by whom she had three more children. They lived in Siskiyou County, California. After the death of Fultz, she married a man named Delaney. She spent her later life with a daughter in California, where she died on April 13, 1928, at the age of 89.

Henrietta was originally named Rosanna, but when the children went to live with the Whitmans, her name was changed to Henrietta Naomi in honor of her parents. She was placed first with the Morgan Kees family, where she remained three years, before joining her older sisters at the Pringles' farm. She then left to join her uncle Solomon Sager's traveling troupe of entertainers. Henrietta was married twice (unhappily) and died at the age of 26, having been mistakenly shot in a gunfight by someone aiming at her husband.

In 1897, more than 3,000 visitors attended the 50th anniversary commemoration of the massacre on the mission grounds. Invited as guests of honor were some of the survivors of the events of 1847, including Catherine Sager Pringle, Elizabeth Sager Helm, and Matilda Sager Delaney, the last surviving Sager orphans.

In popular culture

The children's book On to Oregon! by Honoré Morrow is a fictionalized account of the Sager children.

The actors Harold Daye and Rickie Sorensen played John and Francis Sager in the 1958 episode, "Head of the House", of the syndicated anthology series, Death Valley Days, hosted by Stanley Andrews. In the story line, the Sager orphans head to the Whitman mission after the death of both parents. They are assisted along the way by the famous frontier scout Kit Carson (Morgan Jones) (1928-2012). Roy Barcroft played the wagon master, Captain Shaw.

The 1974 film ‘’Seven Alone’’ starring Stewart Petersen documents the Sager family story.

References