[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 1st Arkansas Infantry Regiment (Union)

fire upon him”, with the man further elaborating to the Colonel that “our Army of the Frontier has its scouts & spies dressed in citizens' dress,in Federal uniform, in rebel uniform, in butternut & in buckskin; & we have a right to suppose that the secesh are as uncertain in their dress as we are”.

The regiment arrived at General Blunt's headquarters on the 25th where they rested and ate the little amount of food they could. Continuing on the march they eventually reached a road that led in the direction of Fort Smith. On the 29th the regiment was approached by a man who believed them to be members of the confederate army. Major Ham told him they were confederate reinforcements and brought the man to Colonel Johnson. Here he explained how many union soldiers he had killed, including one that very day. Upon learning this Ham and Johnson dropped the act and the confederate bushwhacker was killed. A cabin was later found that was believed to have been used to house similar bushwhackers and it was considered if it should be burned. Johnson refused as the cabin was the home of Native American women and children.
On August 31 the regiment reached Scullyville and the following day, on 1 September, General Blunt sent Colonel William Cloud's brigade to follow the retreating confederates, which cumulated in the Battle of Devil's Backbone, while he, his bodyguard, and the 1st Arkansas captured Fort Smith. The regiment entered the garrison without opposition and for the first time since 1861, the American Flag was raised over the Fort. The journey that ended in Fort Smith's capture was brutal for the regiment with an officer stating that the regiment “marched 400 miles on scanty rations and poor water".

Return to Arkansas 
Following the capture of Fort Smith, the 1st Arkansas was reunited with the detachments from companies C and F, which had previously been sent on a scouting mission in the weeks following the regiment's mustering. Due to Portions of Companies C and F being sent off on detached service prior to the evacuation of Fayetteville they were left stranded in Arkansas with little support. The Company F scout had been attacked by a force of 300-400 confederates, sending the men into a panic as they “fled to the bushes for safety.” Throughout the summer the two detachments would continue to evade and skirmish with confederate guerrillas in Newton, Carroll, and Pope counties. Their main goal was disrupting confederate conscription in the region, with Jasper serving as their headquarters briefly. On August 22 Captain Vanderpool, who led the Company C detachment, reunited with Company F at Fayetteville. Also at Fayetteville were the 2nd Arkansas and Kansas Cavalry's, with a small detachment of the 1st Arkansas Infantry from Cassville. Shortly after their arrival, however, the town was once again attacked and many from the Company F detachment fled in disarray and were later marked as deserters. The skirmish ended shortly thereafter and both sides departed. By September 3 Captain Vanderpool had led both detachments to Fort Smith where they rejoined the regiment after more than 4 months of evading enemy capture.

One man who did not return however was Captain Heffington. Throughout the spring and summer, Heffington was active in attempting to induct various mountain feds into the Union army. The removal of Union forces in Arkansas, which occurred following his departure from the regiment, made this task more difficult, though his mountain feds were able to successfully fend off multiple confederate attacks. In August, Heffington was killed while attempting to reach Cassville to organize a force to relieve the unionists, though much of the circumstances of his death are a mystery.