[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Seán McGuinness

Seán McGuinness (died 28 October 1978), born John McGuinness, was an Irish republican who fought in the Irish War of Independence as well as the Irish Civil War. After the wars, he was elected to Dáil Éireann but did not take his seat and was later disqualified for allegedly assaulting a member of the Garda Siochana. Following a period of exile in the United States, McGuinness returned to Ireland where he resumed his membership of the IRA and continued to push for radical action as well as becoming a founder of the Saor Éire party. Over the years, McGuinness repeatedly clashed with the leadership of the IRA over the direction they should take in the post-Civil War era, with McGuinness being amongst those in the IRA who believed the organisation needed to be tied to social issues in order to receive public support.

Soldier
During the Irish War of Independence McGuinness was officer commanding of the Offaly Brigade of the Irish Republican Army. Following the signing of the Anglo-Irish Treaty in December 1921 which ended the War of Independence, McGuinness choose the Anti-Treaty side in the ensuing Irish Civil War. It is alleged that, under his command, an incident occurred in January 1923 in which members of the Offaly brigade rounded up a number of local women, shaved their heads and chained them to railings as punishment for "consorting with the enemy". It was also during the Civil War that three men under McGuinness' command were expelled for "minor misdemeanours". Following their expulsion, the three men were later executed by the National Army for what McGuinness said was a "few minor robberies", but which court records stated was "summary execution for armed robbery". McGuinness stated that "their crime was nothing compared with that of the great betrayal of the Republic by the authority responsible for the killing of these three youths".

TD
Immediately following the end of the Civil War in May 1923, McGuinness was elected at the August 1923 general election as an anti-Treaty Sinn Féin Teachta Dála (TD) for Laois–Offaly; along with other Republican TDs elected in that Dáil, he did not take his seat. In 1924, McGuinness wrote a letter to the IRA leadership in which he stated his belief that the republican movement needed to be built around the issues of land agitation and land redistribution.

On 29 October 1925 McGuinness was convicted of assaulting, resisting and obstructing a sergeant of the Garda Síochána and of a similar charge relating to a Peace Officer. He was sentenced to 18 months imprisonment with hard labour and was therefore disqualified from membership of the Dáil on 30 November 1925 under section 51(2)(a) of the Electoral Act 1923. The resulting by-election for his seat in the 4th Dáil was held on 18 February 1926, and won by the Cumann na nGaedheal candidate James Dwyer. Initially McGuinness was imprisoned in Mountjoy Prison, however he managed to escape in November 1925 and fled to the United States, where he remained for 5 years before returning to his homeland in 1930.

Social agitation
Upon his return to Ireland, McGuinness once again became active in the Irish Republican Army amidst the increasingly tense political atmosphere in the country. In April 1931, McGuinness was reported to have openly drilled with 100 members of the IRA in public. When members of the Gardai appeared, McGuinness reportedly dared them to try and arrest him or any of his men.

In 1931 McGuinness became a founding member of the National Executive Board for Saor Éire, a far-left political organisation established in September 1931 by communist-leaning members of the Irish Republican Army (IRA), with the backing of the IRA leadership. After Saor Éire was not only denounced by the government but also members of the Catholic clergy, McGuinness tried to argue that as a "Sound Catholic" himself, his membership of both the IRA and Saor Éire proved that one could be a member of those organisations without compromising one's faith. McGuinness' public acknowledgement of his membership in both the IRA and Saor Éire eventually led to McGuinness once again being arrested and sentenced for membership of a proscribed organisation in April 1931. This time McGuinness served his sentence in Ireland until March 1932, when he was released under a general amnesty to members of the IRA granted by the newly-elected Fianna Fáil government, who had just won the 1932 general election.