[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Main Ridge, Tobago

dulosa and Byrsonima spicata, with the palm Euterpe broadwayi more common on exposed ridges and summits. Moist lowland forest dominates the lower-lying portions of the Main Ridge. The forests experienced limited human disturbance prior to the 1940s, but were badly damaged by Hurricane Flora in 1963.

Sixteen mammalian species including the nine-banded armadillo, the crab-eating raccoon and the red-rumped agouti, 210 species of birds, 24 snakes and 16 lizards have been recorded from the area. The ichthyofauna is limited - only four of Tobago's 13 freshwater fish species are found in its rivers and streams. The spotted algae-eating goby, Sicydium punctatum, is the most widespread fish species in the area, while the jumping guabine, Anablepsoides hartii, is found at the highest elevations and is the only fish species upstream of several waterfalls. Aquatic invertebrates include the decapods Atya innocous, Eudaniela garmani, Macrobrachium faustinum, and the introduced gastropod Melanoides tuberculata.

Conservation 

The Main Ridge Forest Reserve, a  forest reserve, is one of the oldest protected areas in the world. The Trinidad and Tobago government submitted the Main Ridge Forest Reserve as a tentative listing for a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2011. The area is managed by the Department of Natural Resources and the Environment, a department of the Tobago House of Assembly. It has been identified as one of seven Important Bird Areas in Trinidad and Tobago by BirdLife International.

The Main Ridge Forest Reserve plays an important role in the protection of native biodiversity, particularly endemic plant species. The Main Ridge and the Northern Range (in northern Trinidad) are the areas in the country which support the largest numbers of globally rare plant species. A gap analysis of endemic vascular plants of Trinidad and Tobago identified 15 endemic plant species in the area; species distribution modelling suggested that the reserve included suitable habitat for another nine plant endemic species.

Main Ridge provides critical habitat for three endemic amphibians, Pristimantis turpinorum (Turpin's frog), Mannophryne olmonae (Bloody Bay tree frog) and Pristimantis charlottevillensis (Charlotteville Rain Frog), which are endemic to northeastern Tobago and for the coral snake mimic Erythrolamprus pseudoreginae. The white-tailed sabrewing (Campylopterus ensipennis) is endemic to northeastern Venezuela and the Main Ridge; after Hurricane Flora in 1963 the hummingbird was thought to be extirpated from Tobago, but was rediscovered in 1974. Plant species endemic to Tobago which have been recorded from Main Ridge include Odontonema brevipes, Duguetia tobagensis, Phyllanthus acacioides, Besleria seitzii, Cybianthus pittieri, Pilea tobagensis, and Justicia tobagensis.

Ecotourism 
Main Ridge is an important ecotourism destination and birdwatching site. The site has a visitor centre and a network of nine trails which allow access to the site. Additional trails were constructed to reduce pressure on the most popular trail, Gilpin Trace, which is prone to over-use. The Main Ridge Forest Reserve was named the World's Leading Ecotourism Destination by the World Travel Awards from 2003 to 2006 and the World's Leading Green Destination in 2007 and 2009.

Threats 
Forests on the Main Ridge were damaged by Hurricane Flora in 1963, and its forests continue to be susceptible to hurricane damage. Given the small size of the area, fires started in surrounding agricultural lands can penetrate deep into the hills. Commercial and subsistence hunting and overuse for tourism pose threats to biodiversity, while the chytrid fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis poses a threat to endemic amphibians.

References

Tobago
Mountain ranges of Trinidad and Tobago
Protected areas of Trinidad and Tobago