[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Eldzier Cortor

man also has a flower in her hair and a bird on her shoulder, perhaps indicating the dawn of a new day. The figure in the painting stands stall, giving an overall sense of a triumphant figure still standing throughout the crumbling ruins and the resilience of black women in general (Dallow 2004:98).

Cortor's 1948 work The Room No. VI was produced after Cortor's time at the WPA creating portraits of people in Bronzeville. Cortor wanted to depict the living conditions in these poor, Black areas of Chicago in a way that was not exploitative of their poverty. The figures in the work have long, exaggerated bodies reminiscent of those in Africans sculpture. While these bodies are very thin with visible ribs, this sign of poverty adds to the graceful lines of the work. Cortor conveys the small size of the room through flattening the image and placing objects almost on top of on another with conflicting lines of perspective. These clashing patterns evoke the African American quilting tradition which continues Cortor's dedication to depicting the beauty of Black culture. The four bodies create circular eye movement around the work. The vertical lines of the figures, wall paper, and wood-stove are contrasted by diagonal floor boards and horizontal patterns. This composition confuses the viewer's sense of space which adds a surreal quality to the piece. This painting depicts poverty without demanding the viewer's pity and gives its subject dignity and grace. 
Starting in the 1950s, Cortor became further inspired by African sculptures. In these works, one can see that he works more with cylindrical, graceful and elongated limbs. This is evident through Cortor’s painting Dance Composition No. 31, which was produced in 1978 as a part of a series. It is seen as a reflection of his time that he spent with the Gullah people. In this painting, he evokes basketry and dance, which were two activities considered essential to the Gullah people. The swirling lines and the subtle incorporation of vibrant colors implies a sense of visual movement of the dancers (Bearden 1993: 57). The women’s faces’ are depicted like sculptures, giving them a marble feel within the painting, referencing African art along with the decorative patterning. The sculptural women are also conveyed with a sense of peacefulness. This shows how important basket weaving and dancing are to the Gullah people and their culture. This work is a prime example of the importance of depicting Black culture to Cortor's work. Black women are shown as the harbingers of these traditions, and their physical beauty is an extension of their cultural beauty.

Another example of this subtle shift in Cortor’s work is a painting of his named Classical Study No. 34 which was created in 1968 and also a part of a different series. In this painting, the woman is resting her head on her hand in a profile representation. Cortor plays with her features and makes them rather elongated, which gives a sculptural feel to the subject. She is also wearing a red, yellow and green scarf which is symbolic of the Pan-African flag, which pays homage to her African roots. The figure also resembles ancient marble sculptures, which were used in the past to celebrate someone. This painting is representative of celebrating the beauty and strength of black women, while emphasizing her African roots.