[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Allen Allensworth

an to look for her sons. (She found Major in prison.)  Waiting for her return, Allensworth was reunited with his sister Mary Jane, who had married and had a son. She had self-liberated by purchasing her freedom in 1849. When Phyllis Starbird returned to Louisville, Mary Jane and Allen were reunited.

While working nearby on a farm where Scruggs' deputy had placed him, Allensworth met soldiers from the 44th Illinois Volunteer Infantry Regiment, a Union unit encamped near Louisville. When he told them of wanting freedom, they invited him to join the Hospital Corps. In disguise, he marched with the unit past his old master through Louisville and off to war. After serving as a civilian nursing aide for some time, he was invited to accompany Dr. A. J. Gordon, one of the surgeons, to his home in Georgetown, Ohio. There Allensworth dined with Gordon's family, was given a room of his own, and felt he first walked as a free man. With the war continuing, on April 3, 1863, Allensworth enlisted in the US Navy, where he earned his first pay as a free man. He was soon promoted to Captain's steward and clerk, and served on the Tawah and Pittsburgh for two years.

Postwar years
Allensworth first returned to Kentucky to work and study. In 1868, he joined his brother William in St. Louis, where they operated two restaurants. The business proved successful. However, while they were considering further expansion the brothers were falsely accused of circulating counterfeit currency. This prompted them to sell their venture and led Allensworth to return to Louisville. He worked while putting himself through the Ely Normal School, one of several new schools in the South established by the American Missionary Association. During Reconstruction, Allensworth taught at schools for freedmen and their children operated by the Freedmen's Bureau. Inspired by his own teaching, he began attending courses at the Nashville Institute, later known as the Roger Williams University, but did not graduate. The school later gave him an honorary Master of Arts.

Allensworth became involved with the Baptist Church in Louisville and attended the Fifth Street Baptist Church led by Henry Adams. He was ordained as a preacher by the Baptists in 1871. In the 1870s, Allensworth went to Tennessee to study theology. During this time he also served as a preacher in Franklin, Tennessee, south of Nashville.

In 1875, Allensworth started working as a teacher in Georgetown, Kentucky. He also served as the financial agent of the General Association of the Colored Baptists in Kentucky. They had joined to support the founding of a religious school for black teachers and preachers. Allensworth was among the founders of The State University, helped guarantee the salary of the president in the early years, and served on the Board of Trustees.

He returned to Louisville when called to be pastor of the Harney Street Baptist Church, which he reorganized, attracting many new members. They renamed it Centennial Baptist Church; it was selected as a model by the American Baptist Home Mission Society of America. Within a few years, Allensworth had increased the congregation nearly fivefold, and it built a new church.

Marriage and family

In 1877, he married American musician and activist Josephine Leavell (1855–1938), who also born in Kentucky. They met while studying at Roger Williams University in Nashville, Tennessee. Leavell was an accomplished pianist, organist and music teacher.

The year of his marriage, Allensworth invited his mother to live with him and Josephine. They had several months together before she died in 1878, at the age of 96. Allensworth and Josephine had two daughters, Eva B., born about 1880, and Nella K., born about 1882. In 1900, they lived in San Francisco, California.

Post-Reconstruction era

Allensworth was called to the State Street Church in Bowling Green, Kentucky. He also gave public lectures. That fall, he went to Boston to give a series of lectures, after studying public speaking in Philadelphia.

On his return, he met people from the American Baptist Publication Society in Philadelphia, who appointed him as Sunday School Missionary for the state of Kentucky. He had always worked to build up the Sunday Schools at his churches, and this gave him the chance to continue to work on education around the state. The Colored Baptist State Sunday School Convention of Kentucky appointed him to the position of State Sunday School Superintendent.

With his leadership positions and public speaking, Allensworth became increasingly interested in politics. In 1880 and 1884, he was selected as Kentucky's only black delegate to the Republican National Conventions.

Military career as chaplain