[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ayla Brown

Early Show where she performed "No More" and talked about how her life had changed since her father's win. Ayla also performed the single "Pick It Up" on Fox and Friends on February 15, 2010.

On June 16, 2010, it was revealed that Brown was released from her contract with Double Deal Brand Records.

Overseas tours
In 2010, Brown had the opportunity to travel overseas to as part of Outback Steakhouse's "Feeding Freedom" tour and performed for two weeks in Afghanistan. In November 2010, Brown visited Camp Leatherneck, Afghanistan, where she entertained 15,000 troops.

Ayla Brown
In early 2011, Brown moved from Boston to Nashville to pursue a career in country music. In April, Brown released her first single, "Goodbye for Good," to CDBaby.com. The song was written by Charlie Hutto, Jeremy Johnson, and Travis Thibodaux. Over the course of the year, Brown recorded songs for her debut country album, and released the self-titled CD to iTunes in April 2012. Brown also had physical copies made, which she sold at her concerts and the Philadelphia 76ers home games during the 2012 season, and continues to tour throughout New England and the country promoting her new music.

Brown recorded her album under the record label Ambient Entertainment at Ronnie's Place, country music legend Ronnie Milsap's original studio in Nashville, and co-wrote seven of the nine tracks that appeared on the album. She paired up with respected songwriters including Brennin Hunt and Nicolle Galyon, Billy Montana, Luke Sheets, Kelly Archer and more.  In support of the album, Brown opened for numerous country music stars, including Josh Turner, Jason Aldean, Craig Morgan, Loretta Lynn, Tracy Lawrence, The Marshall Tucker Band and Darius Rucker, and she performed live on morning news programs including FOX 17 WZTV's Tennessee Mornings and The 10! Show in Philadelphia.

Brown has also performed at CMA Music Festival in 2011 and 2012. In 2012, Brown performed at venues such as the Hard Rock Stage, Bridgestone Arena, National Underground and Hotel Indigo, and in 2009 she attended as a correspondent on behalf of Great American Country (GAC) TV.

Heroes & HometownsHeroes and Hometowns is a seven-song EP featuring a studio version of "The Star-Spangled Banner" in addition to all original patriotic-inspired songs. The record was recorded at CURB Studios in Nashville and was produced by Brown. New Balance sponsored the project, and a portion of all CD sales benefit a Massachusetts-based military non-profit called, Hugs for Heroes, Inc. The first single off the CD is "Pride of America."

Let Love In
On May 5, 2015, Brown released Let Love In, a 13-song LP. The album is Brown's third studio release with her record company, Ambient Entertainment. Let Love In was exclusively sponsored by Texas Roadhouse, and during the partnership, Brown made multiple appearances at various locations and her music was featured in the chain's jukebox playlist. Brown wrote or co-wrote each of the tracks on the album, and was produced by Gus Berry. Following the album's release, Brown embarked on a nationwide tour and released an acoustic video of the title track.

Philadelphia 76ers
In the fall of 2011, Brown was contacted by Adam Aron, new CEO of the Philadelphia 76ers, and was offered the opportunity to serve as the team's official National Anthem singer and Goodwill Ambassador for all home games played at the Wells Fargo Center during the 2012 season. Throughout the season, performed multiple halftime and pre-game concourse shows with her band consisting of guitarists Paul Allen, Anthony Rankin, Lucas Chamberlain and Avery Coffee, keyboardist Alex Wright, bassist Daniel Faga, and drummer Mike Pietrusko.  In spring 2012, Brown's contract was extended through the 2012-13 season.

Songs of Love
Brown is currently serving as spokesperson for the Songs of Love Foundation an organization that creates free, personalized, original songs to uplift children and teens who are facing tough medical, physical or emotional challenges. She first became involved in Songs of Love in 2010 when she covered the organization in a piece she did for CBS' The Early Show. Brown wrote a song for Hannah Lowe, a six-year-old cancer patient who was featured in the piece, and has since also written a song for Collin Lecey.

Other projects