[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# UN Watch

rth America, and 4% from Oceania. UN Watch's newsletter on UN issues now reaches nearly 5,000 subscribers around the world.

Commentary from the group has appeared in the BBC, Al Jazeera, Reuters, Washington Post, Agence France-Presse, Voice of America, The Jerusalem Post, Fox News, JTA, and others.

Board and funding
Current board members are:
Diego Arria, former Permanent Representative for Venezuela to the United Nations and President of the Security Council 
Jean-Claude Buhrer
Irwin Cotler, human rights advocate, former Canadian Member of Parliament, former Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada, Founder and Chair of the Raoul Wallenberg Centre for Human Rights.
Yang Jianli, Chinese dissident with United States residency and human rights activist
Garry Kasparov Russian dissident and former world chess champion
Mark P. Lagon political scientist and practitioner, Chief Policy Officer at Friends of the Global Fight Against AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria and a Distinguished Senior Scholar at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service.
Katrina Lantos Swett President of the Lantos Foundation, former Chair of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom
David Trimble, former  first First Minister of Northern Ireland from 1998 to 2002 and the leader of the Ulster Unionist Party
Gert Weisskirchen, German politician and former Member of the Bundestag

Former board members include:
Per Ahlmark, former Deputy Prime Minister of Sweden
Max Jakobson, former Finnish Ambassador to the United Nations
David A. Harris, Executive Director of the American Jewish Committee
Ruth Wedgwood, Professor of International Law and Diplomacy, Johns Hopkins University
Alfred H. Moses, Attorney, former United States Ambassador to Romania and Presidential Emissary for the Cyprus Conflict, Special Counsel to President Jimmy Carter.

UN Watch is funded by private individual donations and charitable foundations.

Positions and activities

Regions

Congo
In 2008, the post of United Nations special rapporteur for the Congo was eliminated by the United Nations Human Rights Council. The elimination was done with the support of Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Russia and other countries, following a request by the Congolese administration of President Joseph Kabila. According to a subsequent report prepared by the office of UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, both government and rebel forces proceeded to carry out mass killings, rape and torture. In November of that year, UN Watch called on the UNHRC to apologize for abolishing the post, and stated that the UNHRC should be held to account for the move, given the atrocities people there were enduring. UN Watch Executive Director Hillel Neuer said in a statement, "Morally, those countries (on the Council) who were behind the elimination of the monitoring mandate in March ought now to apologise to the victims of Congo... We will never know how many lives could have been saved if the Council, deferring to Congo's government, had not caused this unconscionable protection gap which slashed an early-warning mechanism just when the victims needed it most." Other rights groups called for the reestablishment of the post.

On 1 December 2009, following atrocities in the eastern Congolese province of North Kivu, the UNHRC condemned abuses against civilians in Congo. UN Watch said it was hoping to see a reassignment of a UN rights expert to the region, and said abuses "making eastern Congo a living hell" needed to be properly investigated. UN Watch said a total of 50 groupings had signed the appeal to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and human rights chief Navi Pillay, asking to restore the post of UN rights monitor there.

Darfur
UN Watch chaired the NGO Activist Summit For Darfur in 2007.

On 27 April 2008, UN Watch joined human rights organizations around the world in launching a "Justice for Darfur" campaign. The organizations behind the campaign included Amnesty International, Human Rights First and Human Rights Watch. The campaign called on the United Nations Security Council, regional organizations and national governments to pressure Sudan to cooperate with the International Criminal Court, and to arrest suspected war criminals Ali Kushayb and Ahmad Harun. The Sudanese government had refused to surrender either suspect to the Court, and had in fact promoted Harun to the position of State Minister for Humanitarian Affairs.

Iran
UN Watch commended the US, France and other democracies for their “forceful criticism” of Iran's human rights record at a UN hearing in Geneva's UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in February 2010. At the same time, UN Watch executive director Hillel Neuer cautioned that the outcome of the council session could be limited to a “toothless” report to be adopted.