[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# David Luiz

central defence as PSG defeated Bastia 2–0 at the Parc des Princes. On 30 September, David Luiz scored his first PSG goal, opening a 3–2 home win over Barcelona in the Champions League group stage. He was seen as a surprise inclusion in the FIFA World Team of the Year at the 2014 Ballon d'Or awards.

On 19 January 2015, David Luiz scored his first Ligue 1 goal in a 4–2 defeat of Evian. On 11 March, he scored on his return to Stamford Bridge in the round of 16 of the Champions League as PSG drew 2–2 with his former club Chelsea to knock out the English club on away goals. He apologised for celebrating the goal, saying that it was the result of sudden emotion rather than malice towards his former employers.

In David Luiz's first season at the club, PSG won a domestic treble of the Ligue 1 championship, the Coupe de France and the Coupe de la Ligue, in addition to the Trophée des Champions. In his second season at the club, PSG repeated this accomplishment once again, after beating Marseille in the Coupe de France final.

Return to Chelsea

David Luiz returned to Chelsea from PSG, for a reported fee of £34 million, in August 2016 and signed a three-year deal. His first game back with the club was a 2–1 defeat at home to Liverpool on 16 September. On 31 January 2017 he scored his first goal for the season from a free kick against Liverpool at Anfield, his first Premier League goal since April 2013. At the end of the season, David Luiz was named in the PFA Team of the Year for 2016–17.

David Luiz was selected for Chelsea's first match of the 2017–18 Premier League season, against Burnley on 12 August 2017, and scored late on in their 3–2 defeat. On 17 September 2017, Luiz received a straight red after a poor challenge on Sead Kolašinac during a 0–0 draw against Arsenal. Luiz became the third player to be sent-off in the last three meetings between the two rivals from London; with the others being Pedro during the FA Community Shield and Victor Moses during the FA Cup Final. Chelsea went on to win the 2017-18 FA Cup but David Luiz was injured and missed the final.

David Luiz scored his first goal of the 2018–19 Premier League, heading in the second goal in Chelsea's 2–0 home win over the previously undefeated Manchester City on 8 December. He hit the winning penalty in a 4–2 shootout win in the EFL Cup semi-final second leg at home to Tottenham Hotspur on 24 January 2019.

Arsenal

2019–20 season 
On 8 August 2019, Arsenal signed David Luiz from Chelsea for a reported £8 million transfer fee. He received the number 23 shirt for the club. On 6 October 2019, he scored the match's winning goal, his first for Arsenal, in a 1–0 victory against AFC Bournemouth. In a 2–2 home draw against Crystal Palace, he scored his second Arsenal goal. In a match against former club Chelsea in January 2020, he was sent-off after conceding a penalty. While Arsenal eventually drew the match, David Luiz received a three-match suspension from domestic play. He made his return in a Premier League match against Everton, during which he recorded his first assist for Arsenal.

Following the suspension of football due to the COVID-19 pandemic, David Luiz was named on the bench in a match at the Etihad Stadium against Manchester City. However, an injury to Pablo Marí saw him enter play just 24 minutes in. He then committed an error leading to City's first goal before he conceded a penalty and was sent-off early in the second half. In so doing, he became the first player to receive a red card (making him the player with the most red cards this season), concede a penalty and commit an error leading to goal in a Premier League match for five years.

In Arsenal's final match of the season, David Luiz gave away a penalty against Watford; this was the fifth penalty he had conceded that season, setting a Premier League record for most penalties conceded by a single player in a single season. On 1 August 2020, David Luiz was selected to start in the FA Cup Final against his former club Chelsea, as Arsenal won their 14th FA Cup.

2020–21 season 
On 29 August 2020, David Luiz started the game and scored the fourth penalty in a shootout win against Liverpool in the 2020 FA Community Shield after the game ended 1–1.

On 29 November 2020, he was a part of a severe head collision with Raúl Jiménez at the Emirates Stadium in which Jiménez was knocked out. Jiménez was sent to a London hospital and received surgery for his fractured skull, whilst David Luiz was only bandaged on the head due to a cut on his forehead. He was surprisingly allowed to play on after the incident but was subbed off at half time. He was last seen bleeding through his bandage before the half time whistle, which led to a spark of protests from both footballers and fans, demanding a 'free substitution' for those who are concussed on the pitch.