[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 88th Illinois Infantry Regiment

The 88th Illinois Infantry Regiment (nicknamed the  Second Chicago Board of Trade Regiment) was an infantry regiment from Illinois that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. The regiment mustered into service in September 1862 and was engaged at Perryville a month later. The unit subsequently fought at Stones River, in the Tullahoma campaign, at Chickamauga, at Missionary Ridge, in the Atlanta campaign, at Franklin, and at Nashville. The 88th Illinois especially distinguished itself at Stones River, Missionary Ridge, and Franklin. The regiment mustered out of service in June 1865.

Formation
The 88th Illinois Infantry Regiment was organized at Chicago on 27 August 1862 to serve three years and mustered into federal service on 4 September 1862. It became known as the "Second Board of Trade Regiment". The original field officers were Colonel Francis T. Sherman, Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Chadbourne, and Major George W. Chandler, all of Chicago. Chadbourne resigned on 14 October 1863 and was replaced as lieutenant colonel by Chandler, George W. Smith being promoted major. Chandler was killed in action on 27 June 1864 and was replaced as lieutenant colonel by Smith, Levi P. Holden being promoted major. At the time of formation, there was 1 adjutant, 1 quartermaster, 1 surgeon, 2 assistant surgeons, 1 chaplain, 5 sergeant majors, 3 quartermaster sergeants, 1 commissary sergeant, and 1 hospital steward.

Colonel Sherman and Lieutenant Colonel Smith were both appointed Brevet Brigadier Generals on 13 March 1865. Captain John A. Bross was promoted lieutenant colonel of the 29th United States Colored Infantry Regiment on 6 April 1864. Bross was fatally wounded while leading his new regiment at the Battle of the Crater on 30 July 1864.  Captain Alexander C. McClurg was discharged on 28 June 1864 to accept a promotion to Assistant Adjutant General in the XIV Corps.

History

1862

On 4 September 1862, the newly formed 88th Illinois was ordered to report to Louisville, Kentucky. The regiment camped at Jeffersonville, Indiana, where it received its weapons on 11 September. The unit traveled to Covington, Kentucky, on 12 September and was attached to Colonel Nicholas Greusel's 1st Brigade, Brigadier General Gordon Granger's division, Army of the Ohio. On 21 September, the regiment returned to Louisville where it was assigned to Greusel's 37th Brigade in Brigadier General Philip Sheridan's 11th Division. Other units in the 37th Brigade were the 36th Illinois, 21st Michigan, and 24th Wisconsin Infantry Regiments. Soldiers from the experienced regiments stole equipment from the newly recruited soldiers. When soldiers of the 88th Illinois complained about thefts to the men of the 36th Illinois, the veterans called them "sixty-dollar men" and told them to, "go spend your bounty".

The commander of the Army of the Ohio, Major General Don Carlos Buell accepted Charles Champion Gilbert's dubious claim to be a major general and assigned him to lead the III Corps, which included Sheridan's division.  On 1 October, Buell launched his army on a campaign against General Braxton Bragg's Confederate army. While marching in the evening of 4 October, the 88th Illinois began singing John Brown's Body and the entire division joined in. The regiment fought at the Battle of Perryville on 8 October 1862. At 4:00 pm, a Confederate brigade attacked Sheridan's position on Peters Hill. The 88th Illinois took position to the right of Captain Henry Hescock's Battery G, 1st Missouri Light Artillery. The 36th Illinois was caught in an awkward position and bore the brunt of the Confederate attack. When its ammunition ran out, the 36th Illinois retreated through the 88th Illinois. This caused the 88th to momentarily waver, but its officers quickly rallied the men; they advanced a short distance and opened fire again. Under fire from an entire Union division, the outnumbered Confederates retreated. Colonel Sherman led the regiment at Perryville where it sustained losses of 8 killed and 35 wounded. The Illinois Adjutant General stated that losses were 4 killed, 5 mortally wounded, and 36 wounded.