[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Christmas with the Joker

a howling Joker up a catwalk. Just as Joker is making his escape, he slips on a loose roller skate and topples over the catwalk railing. Batman grabs him by the leg, narrowly saving him from plunging into the vat. Batman sneers, "Merry Christmas, Joker", to which Joker angrily retorts, "Bah Humbug".

Bruce Wayne and Dick Grayson retire to Wayne Manor to watch a taped copy of It's A Wonderful Life, given to them by Commissioner Gordon. Meanwhile, Joker spends Christmas in a straitjacket, alone in his cell. However, being the Joker, he remains upbeat, singing "Deck the Halls", laughs hysterically, and ends the episode by saying, "Merry Christmas".

Cast 
 Kevin Conroy as Bruce Wayne / Batman / Donner
 Robert Costanzo as Detective Harvey Bullock / Blitzen

 Bob Hastings as Commissioner Jim Gordon
 Clive Revill as Alfred Pennyworth 
 Mark Hamill as The Joker
 Mari Devon as Summer Gleeson
 Loren Lester as Dick Grayson / Robin

Production notes
This is the only episode written by Eddie Gorodetsky, as well as the only one directed by Kent Butterworth.

Originally, Tim Curry performed the role of the Joker, but his performance was seen as "too scary" by the producers and he was replaced after recording three episodes. Curry claimed he developed bronchitis during the initial recording sessions, leading to him being replaced. John Glover, who later voiced the Riddler, also auditioned for the Joker role. Ultimately, the role was given to Mark Hamill, who worked to craft a multifaceted laugh for the Joker that could change to reflect the Joker's current mood, likening it to a musical instrument. Hamill, who found himself to be the biggest fan of the Batman comics among the cast, credited the laughs he had honed on stage in Amadeus with landing him the role. Hamill's take on the Joker is considered to be groundbreaking for the voice-acting industry, and led to Hamill having an enormously successful voice-acting career.

Reception
Leonard Piece of The A.V. Club gave the episode a B rating, writing, "I can't rate this episode too highly, since it's pretty inconsequential and technically not very well-executed, especially compared to what came before it. It's also got a lot of padding. It could easily be 15 minutes and far tighter...But it's a funny, charming piece of work, by no means a failure, and it provides some memorable lines and the beginning of two relationships—Batman and the Joker and Batman and Robin—that are essential to the show's development. It does what it needs to do quite well, and for that reason, I can't rate it too poorly, either."

References

External links 
 

1992 American television episodes
Batman: The Animated Series episodes
American Christmas television episodes
Television episodes about abduction
Joker (character) in other media