[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ottawa Tribe of Oklahoma

nment's plan.

The Ottawa did not relocate from Ohio until April 1837. Of the 600 Ottawa who migrated to Kansas, "more than 300 died within the first two years, because of exposure, lack of proper food, and the great difference between the cool, damp woods of Ohio and the dry, hot plains of Kansas."

To survive as a people, the tribe made a remarkable investment in their children's future. Of the  the Ottawa controlled in Kansas, they set aside  for an upper-level school and sold  of land to fund its construction and maintenance. Affiliated with the Baptist Church, which operated missions in Kansas, Ottawa University educated both Indians and non-Indians. The university still offers free tuition today to any enrolled member of the Ottawa tribe.

The present-day town of Ottawa, Kansas, developed because of the Ottawa Reservation. The Ottawa people remained in Kansas until 1867, after the American Civil War. Under the leadership of Chief John Wilson, the tribe sold their lands in Kansas and purchased  of land in Indian Territory from the Eastern Shawnee. More of the tribe died during relocation and only 200 Ottawa arrived in their new lands.

Two decades later, Congress passed the Dawes Act of 1887, designed to encourage Native American assimilation by having households establish subsistence farming in the European-American model. It dissolved the communal tribal lands and governments, and required communal lands to be divided and allocated in 160-acre plots to individual households of registered members of each tribe in the Indian Territory. The land was so poor in many areas that this amount of farmland proved insufficient even for subsistence farming. In 1891, 157 Ottawa were finally allotted plots of land in Indian Territory; under provisions of the law, the US federal government declared the remainder of their land as surplus and sold it, primarily to non-native buyers. The Dawes Rolls are records for each tribe of their members registered at that time. A number of tribes use the Dawes Rolls as a basis for establishing membership in their tribes at a particular time.

In 1936 the Ottawa tribe in Oklahoma organized their government again under the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act and gained federal recognition as a tribe. This entitled them to certain benefits in education, for instance.

But in the 1950s federal policy changed again, and Congress decided it was time to encourage tribes to give up their special status in relation to the federal government. Congress and the Bureau of Indian Affairs determined that some tribes were ready to be terminated; that is, their special status would end and their citizens would be considered simply US citizens. The Ottawa of Oklahoma were one of the tribes whose federally recognized government was terminated in 1956. This deprived them of benefits needed in the harsh environment of Oklahoma, and disrupted their society. The tribe persevered to regain their status; federal recognition was restored under a bill signed by President Jimmy Carter on May 15, 1978. In 1979 the US Congress recognized the tribal council and ratified the tribal constitution.

In 1980 the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians gained federal recognition. In 1994 two more tribes of Odawa people in Michigan gained federal recognition: the Little River Band of Ottawa Indians and the Little Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians. There are also status bands of First Nations of Odawa peoples on Manitoulin Island and in other areas of Ontario, Canada.

The Ottawa Tribe serves free lunches for elders in the town of Miami.

Notes

External links
 The Ottawa Tribe of Oklahoma
 Ottawa Powwow and Celebration

 
Native American tribes in Oklahoma
Federally recognized tribes in the United States