[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mind control in popular culture

Mind control has proven a popular subject in fiction, featuring in books and films such as The Manchurian Candidate (1959; film adaptation 1962) and The IPCRESS File (1962; film 1965), both stories advancing the premise that controllers could hypnotize a person into murdering on command while retaining no memory of the killing. As a narrative device, mind control serves as a convenient means of introducing changes in the behavior of characters, and is used as a device for raising tension and audience uncertainty in the contexts of the Cold War and terrorism.  Mind control has often been an important theme in science fiction and fantasy stories.  Terry O'Brien comments:  "Mind control is such a powerful image that if hypnotism did not exist,  then something similar would have to have been invented: the plot device is too useful for any writer to ignore. The fear of mind control is equally as powerful an image."

Speculative fiction
 In Dragon Ball, Broly is mind-controlled by his father Paragus.
 In Warhammer 40,000, the T'au Empire is mind-controlling its population.
 Imperio, one of the three Unforgivable Curses in Harry Potter, is a spell used for mind control.
 In RoboCop, the titular character is mind-controlled by Raymond Sellars.
 In Gamer, death-row prisoners are mind-controlled by gamers in Slayers, a first-person shooter.
 In DC Comics, Brainiac and Poison Ivy are frequently using mind control, an ability that Darkseid also plans to obtain by seeking the Anti-Life Equation.
 In Danny Phantom, Vlad Plasmius used mind control to become a billionaire.
 In Yu-Gi-Oh!, Marik has the Millenium Rod, one of the seven Millenium Items, which provides its owner with the mind control ability. Additionally The Millenium Key owned by Shadi can change a person's personality.
 In the movie series Men in Black, a device used for memory erasing (known as the Neuralyzer) is used frequently by Agents Kay and Jay.
 In the television series Doctor Who, there are multiple stories involving mind control.
The Master is able to control the minds of individuals with a weak will by looking into their eyes, a form of hypnosis.  In "The Sound of Drums", he is able to do this on a massive scale through the Archangel satellite network, but this backfires when the Doctor manages to use the network to defeat him.
In "Rise of the Cybermen" and "The Age of Steel", EarPods are devices that can place the user into a trance-state and download information directly into their brain, as well as other features, such as communication. EarPods are widely used in a parallel universe, worn in both ears. Unbeknownst to the users, the EarPods could also mind control as the population's EarPods were activated and controlled them to walk to a conversion factory and be converted into Cybermen.
A similar method of control by the Cybermen reappears in "Army of Ghosts". Workers at the Torchwood Institute wore a communication earpiece. As some workers were captured by the Cybermen, their earpieces were manipulated to control them with the worker reemerging with an earpiece in each ear. It was later found that the earpieces were connected to the brain through artificial tissue.
 In the Anthony Burgess novel A Clockwork Orange, later adapted into a film by Stanley Kubrick, the "Ludovico Technique" is a form of mind control that causes the subject, in this case the thug anti-hero Alex, to feel sickness and pain whenever he has a violent or anti-social impulse. This backfires because of Alex's association with the music of Ludwig van Beethoven to ultraviolence, an unintended side effect means that he has the same physical reaction to the music alone, which is exploited later by a man whose wife Alex had raped.
 In Philip K. Dick's 1968 novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, a device called a Penfield Mood Organ is used to control mood.
 Mind control (telepathic hypnosis) is a prominent psionic gift in the Scanners series of films. It is used by the Scanners to escape imprisonment in the first film, and to sometimes control others in the subsequent films.
 George Orwell's novel Nineteen Eighty-Four features a description of mind control, both directly by torture, and indirectly, in the form of pervasive mind control by the use of Newspeak, a constructed language designed to remove the possibility, Sapir-Whorf-wise of articulating or of even thinking subversive thoughts.
 The Jedi mind trick is a prominent plot device in the Star Wars saga.
 In The Matrix, a chemical was injected into Morpheus to make him reveal access codes.
 In Michael Crichton's novel The Terminal Man, the Terminal Man has doctors implant a simple computer into the brainstem of a man who suffers from impulsive violence. The plan is to stimulate certain nerves to ease the violent impulses. Instead, the violence becomes even more irresistible.
 In the anime, movie and video game series Street Fighter 2, the main villain, known as M. Bison uses his "Psycho Power" to brainwash and corrupt