[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Louise Richardson

from US billionaire Stephen Schwarzman to fund humanities research at the University of Oxford—the largest single donation since the Renaissance. In 2020, she also secured an £80 million donation from the Reuben Foundation to create Oxford's 39th college, Reuben College, to support applied research.

Richardson opposed Brexit and the United Kingdom's break with the European Union due to concerns over missing out on billions of dollars in EU research funding and collaborations and the agreement's impact on students and staff. In 2022, she said "Twenty years from now, we'll look back and see the results of this gradual erosion of our links with European research."

Admissions among underrepresented groups
As part of efforts to broaden access to the University of Oxford, Richardson pushed for transparency in admissions.

She committed the university to ensuring that by 2023, 25% of the British students admitted will be from underrepresented backgrounds – compared to 15% as of 2019. Oxford was nearing its goal by the end of 2022 when Richardson said students from the most deprived backgrounds represented 23% of school entrants while the percentage of student from state schools had reached 68%, up from 56% in 2015. Richardson said, "It is a picture of progress on a great many fronts, but with work remaining to be done."

Advocacy
In October 2020, Richardson announced the launch of the Race Equality Task Force to address the under-representation of racial minorities at all levels within the university. Staff and students were invited to help shape recommendations to address the problem. In March 2021, Richardson announced the establishment of the Oxford Sustainability Fund to make £200 million available for sustainability initiatives over the next fifteen years with the goal of net zero carbon and biodiversity net gain by 2035.

Amid the 2019-20 Hong Kong protests, Richardson was recognized for her leadership and advocacy. Richardson was "admirably robust when threatened by the Chinese embassy with the withdrawal of Chinese students from Oxford unless she stopped its chancellor Chris Patten visiting Hong Kong", and was noted as having "more balls than any male [Vice-Chancellor]".

Development of Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine
Starting in early 2020, Oxford took a leading international role in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, prompting a Financial Times profile of Richardson's crisis management style. The article highlighted the vice-chancellor's preference for informality and flexibility and her quick coordination and funding of an emergency research program led by a group of medical and life sciences professors. "It's best known achievements were the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and the Recovery trial of potential Covid treatments, which together may have saved millions of lives worldwide."

By Spring 2021, the partnership with AstraZeneca had produced more vaccines than any other developer, about a third of the world's 1.47 bn administered doses, and with the widest distribution both geographically and across global income groups. As part of the collaboration, Richardson made distribution of the vaccine as a nonprofit venture a condition of the deal, and as a result, the vaccine will be available at cost in perpetuity in low and middle-income countries. It was distributed at cost in the developed world for the duration of the pandemic. Richardson told the Sunday Times that the vaccine demonstrated the need for long-term thinking when it comes to funding and for "blue-skies research that will have an impact that we can't anticipate now." In a 2023 interview, Richardson said the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine was the target of cyber threats and a deliberate misinformation campaign intended to destabilize relations among Western countries.

In February 2022, Times Higher Education summarized Richardson's achievements noting Oxford's COVID-19 vaccine development, charitable fundraising, and student access as well as an inclination to stand up to "unparalleled media scrutiny."

Top international ranking
In October 2022, Times Higher Education released its annual World University Ranking, and Oxford broke a record for the publication's rankings with seven straight years in the top spot, coinciding with Richardson's seven years in the top job. Oxford was followed by Harvard University while the University of Cambridge and Stanford University tied for third place.