[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 116]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

aid Harry.

"It is a trifling one that I have read," answered Miss Simmons, "of
somebody who, having procured a lion's skin, fastened it round the body
of an ass, and then turned him loose, to the great affright of the
neighbourhood. Those who saw him first, imagined that a monstrous lion
had invaded the country, and fled with precipitation. Even the very
cattle caught the panic and were scattered by hundreds over the plains.
In the meantime the victorious ass pranced and capered along the fields,
and diverted himself with running after the fugitives. But at length, in
the gaiety of his heart, he broke into such a discordant braying, as
surprised those that were nearest, and expected to hear a very different
noise from under the terrible skin. At length a resolute fellow ventured
by degrees nearer to this object of their terror, and discovering the
cheat that had been practised upon them, divested the poor ass of all
his borrowed spoils, and drove him away with his cudgel."

"This story," continued Miss Simmons, "is continually coming into my
mind, when I see anybody imagine himself of great importance, because he
has adopted some particular mode of dress, or the grimaces of those that
call themselves fashionable people. Nor do I ever see Master Mash or
Compton without thinking of the lion's skin, and expecting every moment
to hear them bray."

Harry laughed very heartily at this story; but now their attention was
called towards the company, who had ranged themselves by pairs for
country-dancing. Miss Simmons, who was very fond of this exercise, then
asked Harry if he had never practised any of these dances. Harry said,
"it had happened to him three or four times at home, and that he
believed he should not be puzzled about any of the figures." "Well,
then," said the young lady, "to show how little I regard their intended
mortification, I will stand up and you shall be my partner." So they
rose and placed themselves at the bottom of the whole company according
to the laws of dancing, which appoint that place for those who come
last.

And now the music began to strike up in a more joyous strain; the little
dancers exerted themselves with all their activity, and the exercise
diffused a glow of health and cheerfulness over the faces of the most
pale and languid. Harry exerted himself here with much better success
than he had lately done in the minuet. He had great command over all his
limbs, and was very well versed in every play that gives address to the
body, so that he found no difficulty in practising all the varied
figures of the dances, particularly with the assistance of Miss Simmons,
who explained to him everything that appeared embarrassing.

But now, by the continuance of the dance, all who were at first at the
upper end had descended to the bottom, where, by the laws of the
diversion, they ought to have waited quietly till their companions,
becoming in their turn uppermost, had danced down to their former
places. But when Miss Simmons and Harry expected to have had their just
share of the exercise, they found that almost all their companions had
deserted them and retired to their places. Harry could not help
wondering at this behaviour; but Miss Simmons told him with a smile,
that it was only of a piece with the rest, and she had often remarked it
at country assemblies, where all the gentry of a county were gathered
together. "This is frequently the way," added she, "that those who think
themselves superior to the rest of the world choose to show their
importance." "This is a very bad way indeed," replied Harry; "people may
choose whether they will dance or practise any particular diversion,
but, if they do, they ought to submit to the laws of it without
repining; and I have always observed among the little boys whom I am
acquainted with, that wherever this disposition prevails, it is the
greatest proof of a bad and contemptible temper." "I am afraid," replied
Miss Simmons, "that your observations will hold universally true, and
that those who expect so much for themselves, without being willing to
consider their fellow-creatures in turn, in whatever station they are
found, are always the most mean, ignorant, and despicable of the
species."

"I remember," said Harry, "reading a story of a great man called Sir
Philip Sydney. This gentleman was reckoned not only the bravest but the
politest person in all England. It happened that he was sent over the
sea to assist some of our allies against their enemies. After having
distinguished himself in such a manner as gained him the love and esteem
of all the army, this excellent man one day received a shot which broke
his thigh, as he was bravely fighting at the head of his men. Sir
Philip Sydney felt that he was mortally wounded, and was obliged to turn
his horse's head, and retire to his tent, in order to have his wound
examined. By the time that he had reached his tent, he not on