[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frederick Hutton (scientist)

th, on 17 January 1866, bound for new opportunities in New Zealand. After a tedious voyage, passing Tristan da Cunha, Cape of Good Hope, Île Saint-Paul, South Cape of Tasmania, Three Kings and North Cape of New Zealand, the clipper came to anchor off Queen Street wharf, Auckland, on Monday, 11 June.

In May 1867, Captain Hutton volunteered to take charge of Auckland Museum, articles of which had been suffering in its Grafton Road cottage, and sought to put the institution in good order with its relocation to the very large basement room of the new Provincial Government offices on the corner of Princes Street and Victoria Quadrant—The Northern Club building. Accepted as Honorary Curator by the Superintendent of Auckland Province, John Williamson, he worked his way through arranging and classifying the confused and inconsistently recorded collections. Additionally, he prepared exhibition of the objects, received further specimens, artefacts etc. and worked towards establishing a museum library.
Hutton and Thomas Gillies initiated the inaugural public meeting of 6 November 1867, held in the Board Room of the Auckland Board of Commissioners, to establish the Auckland Philosophical Society; soon renamed Auckland Institute. The meeting was called immediately following a conversation they'd had in relation to the action taken by the General Assembly of New Zealand in constituting the New Zealand Institute. James Hector, manager of the Institute in Wellington, had recently suggested to Gillies the propriety of establishing branches throughout New Zealand, especially in Auckland. Auckland Institute was formally incorporated with the New Zealand Institute on 10 June 1868. Auckland Museum was transferred to the Auckland Institute in October 1869.

In 1867 he was employed by the Superintendent of Auckland to carry out a geological survey of the lower Waikato. On 8 June 1869, he reported the discovery of substantial coalfields between the Maramarua and Whangamarino rivers, which another settler intended to work for his flax mill. Later in 1869, Hutton and family sold their Epsom home in Auckland and moved to the Waikato, where he'd erected a steam-powered flax mill at Churchill, a station on the western bank of the Waikato River, near Whangape Stream. Hutton's venture, however, proved uneconomic and in consequence his flax mill with 500 acres of flax land, along with a farm of 2,000 acres situated on Lake Whangape, were put up for sale in March 1872.

He'd joined the Geological Survey of New Zealand in 1866, becoming Provincial Geologist of Otago in 1874. At the same time, he was made lecturer in geology at the University of Otago and curator of the museum there. After the 1886 eruption of Mount Tarawera he wrote one of the official reports and postulated the eruption was due to moltern material reaching the surface in a volcanic dyke.  Hutton became professor of biology at Canterbury College in 1880, and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1892. The following year, he also took on the curatorship of the Canterbury Museum. Towards the end of his life, Hutton was made president of the Royal Australasian Ornithologists Union. He was awarded the Clarke Medal by the Royal Society of New South Wales in 1891. He was the first President of the New Zealand Institute (which later became the Royal Society of New Zealand), from 1904 to his death in 1905; he was followed by Sir James Hector. He was one of the inaugural vice-chairmen of the New Zealand Alpine Club, which was founded in July 1891.

He worked successively at the Colonial Museum, Wellington (1871–1873) (now called Te Papa Tongarewa Museum of New Zealand); Otago Museum, Dunedin (1874–1879); and the Canterbury Museum, Christchurch (1887–1905).

Hutton died on the return voyage on the SS Rimutaka from England on 27 October 1905, and was buried at sea off Cape Town, South Africa. 

He is commemorated in the Hutton Medal and Hutton Memorial Fund, awarded for scientific works bearing on the zoology, botany or geology of New Zealand. Hutton's shearwater (Puffinus huttoni), a sea bird, was named after him and the cave wētā Neonetus huttoni.

Evolution
In 1860, he wrote a supportive review of Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species for the journal, The Geologist. In 1861, he wrote an article defending Darwinism in the same journal. Hutton defended Darwin from the objections of creationist Adam Sedgwick, which he described as "gross ironical misrepresentations". He wrote that creationism was a "mere assertion, an evasion of the question, a cloak for ignorance."

Throughout his life, Hutton remained a staunch exponent of Darwin's theories of natural selection, and Darwin himself expressed his appreciation in a letter to Hutton.

Taxa
Taxa described and named by Hutton include: