[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Battery E, 1st Illinois Light Artillery Regiment

house only seventy-five feet away.  Incredibly, Battery E managed to limber its two guns and escape to the nearby creek, where they stormed through the water to the safety of a road on the other side.

Private Rice offered this detailed account of the engagement as he witnessed it from his section:

Rice further indicates that Forrest harassed the retreating Federals throughout the following day until they finally reached the safety of Memphis.  He reports that some Rebel prisoners being escorted to the rear during the battle, upon being asked where they were going, answered: "the same way you'll be going, in less than an hour."  A wounded Federal soldier, watching this debacle unfold around him, tried to put his best spin on things by shouting: "ole Grant will make it up, in Virginia."  Rice reports that when the butcher's bill was tallied, the battery had lost fifty horses, ten mules, three wagons, forty sets of harness, and four guns with their caissons.  Two men of the battery were killed, three were wounded and four were missing.  Rice attributed the defeat to the "drunkenness or incompetency of Sturgis," indicating that he and several other soldiers were inclined to believe he had deliberately sold them out.  Despite all of this, Rice spoke of "[aching] to get at old Forrest again," promising to "make him git, when we do."

In his after-action report, Colonel Alexander Wilkin, commanding the 9th Minnesota, commended Captain Fitch of Battery E for the "judicious and gallant manner" in which he and his battery had conducted themselves during the battle.  The battery returned to Memphis after the defeat, "every man for himself", with the men listed as "very much demoralized".

The battery next marched on Tupelo, and July 12 it fought at Pontotoc, Mississippi.  On July 13, they were ambushed, losing one man wounded.  On the 14th, the battery participated in the Battle of Tupelo, which resulted in a defeat for Forrest.

Actions in Missouri
On July 15, 1864, Battery E returned to Memphis. The cannon lost to Forrest were replaced with four Napoleons and two steel Rodmans.  On September 3, 1864, they took steamboats down the Mississippi to White River Gap and from thence to Duvall's Bluff, Arkansas.  Marching through Arkansas swamps to Cape Girardeau under General J. A. Mower, they next travelled up the Missouri River to Jefferson City, Missouri where they joined in the Federal pursuit of Confederate General Sterling Price, who was then engaged in a campaign inside his home state.  Rice reported that the people around Jefferson City were suffering a "perfect reign of terror," as "all [of them] are Union."  The men had initially been ordered not to take any spare clothing or belongings other than a blanket during their initial deployment, thus all of them were miserable and several were even barefoot by the time they drew new uniforms in St. Louis. Rations were often reduced to a quarter of the usual fare, with troopers forced to forage along the roadsides for "pumpkin sauce and beef."

After Price's defeat at Westport near Kansas City, the Battery returned to St. Louis on November 15, 1864.

Service at Nashville

After drawing a new complement of horses, Battery E took boats for Nashville, Tennessee, where they served under General Thomas during Hood's siege of that city.  In a letter dated 8 December 1864, Rice reports that "we have no firing along the line directly in front of us today, but the Johnnies can be seen plainly with a glass about three miles off, doing their camp duty."  He goes on to relate his opinion of General Thomas and of his Confederate counterpart, General John Bell Hood:

Rice reports that the battery was well-supplied with sanitary supplies and rations during this time, and that many of its sick members were "improving in health." He equally reported that "damnable speculators" had driven up the price of food and stationery, with one sheet of paper being sold for five cents, and flour for $35 per barrel.  Several original members of the battery were discharged at this point and sent home, while others were compelled to serve out extensions to their original three-year terms.

On 15 December Thomas did exactly what Rice had predicted: he emerged from his trenches, and attacked Hood's army.  Rice relates his experience of the ensuing battle:

If things had gone badly for Hood on the 15th, they would turn disastrous on the following day.  Rice continues his account: