[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Occupational Health Services Convention, 1985

employer to verify the reasons for absence from work.

General provisions 
Articles 16 to 24 govern the ratification of this convention and the adoption of a new convention. They also contain the responsibilities of the Director-General of the ILO and the validity of the English and French versions.

Article 16 
National laws name the authorities responsible for the supervision of and advising on occupational health services.

Article 17 
The formal ratifications of the convention must be transmitted to the Director-General of the ILO.

Article 18 
The convention is binding for all members of the International Labour Organization, whose ratification is registered with the Director-General. It should enter into force twelve month after the registration with the Director-General.

Article 19 
A member can resign this convention after ten years from the date on which the convention first entered into force by writing to the Director-General of the ILO. One year after the act of resignation it comes into effect. 
Each member can resign within one year following the expiration of the ten years period. After that the convention can only be resigned after a next period of ten years.

Article 20 
The Director-General of the ILO shall notify all members transmitted to him or her by the members of the organization.
When notifying the second ratification, the Director-General shall point out the date of entry into force of the convention.

Article 21 
The Director-General of the ILO shall provide the Secretary-General of the United Nations all registered ratifications and denunciations according to Article 102 of the Charter of the UN.

Article 22 
The Governing Body presents a report on the implementation of this convention to the General Conference as it may deem necessary. It also shall question its revision.

Article 23 
Adopts the conference a new convention, that revises this convention, the ratification of the new convention shall imply the immediate denunciation of this convention. With the entry into force of the new convention, this convention is no longer ratifiable. This convention remains in force in its present form for those members who ratified it but not the new convention.

Article 24 
The English and French versions of this convention are equally authoritative.

Ratifications 
As of December 2022, the convention has been ratified by 35 states.

References

External links 
Text.
Ratifications.

International Labour Organization conventions
Occupational safety and health treaties
Treaties concluded in 1985
Treaties entered into force in 1988
Treaties of Antigua and Barbuda
Treaties of Benin
Treaties of Belgium
Treaties of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Treaties of Brazil
Treaties of Bulgaria
Treaties of Burkina Faso
Treaties of Chile
Treaties of Colombia
Treaties of Croatia
Treaties of Czechoslovakia
Treaties of the Czech Republic
Treaties of Finland
Treaties of Gabon
Treaties of Germany
Treaties of Guatemala
Treaties of the Hungarian People's Republic
Treaties of Luxembourg
Treaties of Mexico
Treaties of Montenegro
Treaties of Niger
Treaties of Poland
Treaties of San Marino
Treaties of Serbia and Montenegro
Treaties of Yugoslavia
Treaties of Seychelles
Treaties of Slovakia
Treaties of Slovenia
Treaties of Sweden
Treaties of North Macedonia
Treaties of Turkey
Treaties of Ukraine
Treaties of Uruguay
Treaties of Zimbabwe
1985 in labor relations