[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 51st (Leeds Rifles) Royal Tank Regiment

remained in the brigade, although converted to specialised armour. 'B' Squadron received 15 Crab Mark II flail tanks, while 'A' and 'C' sqns had a total of 32 Churchill Crocodile flamethrowing tanks. Each squadron in the brigade was self-administering, so that they could be detached where required.

25 Armoured Assault Brigade first went into action at the crossing of the Senio on 9 April 1945. 51 RTR was attached to the 2nd New Zealand and 8th Indian Divisions. The flamethrowing tanks crept forward during the preliminary bombardment and positioned themselves close to the floodbank as possible. One minute before the infantry assault started, the positions were flamed. Most of the Crocodiles had to be 60 feet behind the bank to be able to direct their flame over the bank. World War II in Europe ended shortly after this operation.

Postwar
When the Territorial Army was reformed after the war, it included a combined 45th/51st (Leeds Rifles) RTR. The personnel received their tank training from 'A' Sqn of 6 RTR at RAF Worksop. Brigadier Noel Tetley was the honorary colonel.

In 1956, the 45th/51st (Leeds Rifles) RTR returned to the infantry role under its old title of 7th (Leeds Rifles) Bn West Yorkshire Regiment. It carried the honorary distinction on its colours and appointments of the badge of the Royal Tank Regiment with the dates '1942-45' and two scrolls inscribed 'North Africa' and 'Italy'.

Notes

References
 Ronald Addyman, The 51st Royal Tank Regiment : Morley, Tunisia and Italy, 1939-1945, 2004. 
 Gen Sir William Jackson, History of the Second World War, United Kingdom Military Series: The Mediterranean and Middle East, Vol VI: Victory in the Mediterranean Part III: November 1944 to May 1945, London: HMSO, 1988.
 
 Maj-Gen I.S.O. Playfair and Brig C.J.C. Molony, History of the Second World War, United Kingdom Military Series, The Mediterranean and Middle East, Vol IV: The Destruction of the Axis Forces in Africa, London: HMSO, 1966.

External sources
 Yorkshire Volunteers website
 Land Forces of Britain, the Empire and Commonwealth
 Prince of Wales's Own Regiment of Yorkshire Museum
 Merseyside RTR (Brian Gill's website)

Military units and formations established in 1939
Royal Tank Regiment
West Yorkshire Regiment
Regiments of Yorkshire
Royal Tank Regiment 051