[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hunin

butz Misgav Am was established on what was traditionally the northern part of village land.

1948 and aftermath
A Palmach raid in May 1948 led to many of the inhabitants fleeing to Lebanon, leaving 400 in the village. Four village women were raped and murdered by Israeli soldiers during the summer. 

During a meeting in August 1948, the mukhtars of Hunin and other Shi'ite villages met with the Jews of kibbutz Kfar Giladi, declaring their willingness to be good citizens of Israel. Their proposal was conveyed to the Israeli government, where it received enthusiastic support from the Minorities Minister Bechor-Shalom Sheetrit. A report was made by the Ministry of Minority Affairs recommending that such an agreement be reached with the 4,700 or so Shi'ites in the region to promote friendly relations with southern Lebanon, to take advantage of the Shi'ites' poor relationship with the majority Sunnis, and to enhance the prospect of a future extension of the border. This proposal was not accepted, despite the support of the Minister of Minority Affairs, Sheetrit. In August, more inhabitants of Hunin were forced to flee by the IDF. On 3 September 1948, the IDF raided the village blowing up 20 houses, killing a son of the mukhtar and 19 others and expelling the remaining villagers. Most of the villagers took refuge in Shiite villages in Lebanon.

In 1951, Moshav Margaliot was established just south of the village site.

See also
 Hula massacre (31 October - 1 November 1948) perpetrated by the IDF in Hula, a Lebanese Shi'a village 3 km from Hunin
 Shia villages in Palestine

References

Bibliography

 
 
 

 
 

p. 49

External links
Welcome to Hunin at PalestineRemembered.com
Hunin, Zochrot
Hunin, Villages of Palestine
Survey of Western Palestine, map 2: IAA, Wikimedia commons
Hunin, from the Khalil Sakakini Cultural Center

Arab villages depopulated during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War
Massacres in Israel during the Israeli–Palestinian conflict
District of Safad