[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rodrigo Riera

Rodrigo Riera (19 September 1923 – 19 August 1999), was a Venezuelan guitarist and composer. He wrote a vital and important body of works for the guitar, inspired by and dedicated to the rich musical legacy of his region in the Lara state (Capital city: Barquisimeto) in Western Venezuela, displaying a loving nationalism that led him to be associated with the work of Antonio Lauro but with a technique that is more accessible to beginners and intermediate guitar players.

He was also an important educator of the classical guitar. Many guitarists active today studied with him in the 1980s and 1990s.

Lastly, he had an important career as a concert guitarist, but his recordings are relatively scarce and hard to find.

Biography

Family and youth
Rodrigo Riera was born in the township of Barrio Nuevo, in the city of Carora, in the state of Lara, in midwestern Venezuela.
 
His father, Juan Teodosio Querales, was a music teacher. He grew up with his mother, Paula Antonia Riera and his five older siblings. In addition to his music talent, Rodrigo inherited a congenital foot defect from his father. Despite this, he was able to have a normal childhood, even excelling in certain sports and physical activities.

Like many other Venezuelan musicians, his first instrument was the cuatro and his first teachers were his peers and his own will. His first public recital took place in Carora at age thirteen.

In 1937 he moved to Barquisimeto to look for better opportunities. In 1939, he was part of a guitar and vocal group called "Hermanos Riera" (founded by his brother Ruben). That year, he met fellow Carora guitarist Alirio Díaz, who wasn't planning to have a career in music at the time.

In 1941, he and his group travelled to Caracas for a series of radio presentations. During that trip, he met guitarists Antonio Lauro and Manuel Enrique Perez Díaz, both fellow students of Raúl Borges. Lauro was so impressed with Riera's playing, that he wrote a letter recommending him to his teacher. Life's circumstances made it difficult for Riera to start studies under Borges until 1945.

Studying under Raúl Borges
In September 1945, Riera's and Alirio Díaz' paths crossed again, this time at the footsteps of the Escuela de Música de Caracas to meet and audition for the guitar classes of Raúl Borges. They graduated in 1949 with the highest of grades. In March of that year, they were introduced to Andrés Segovia, who was visiting Venezuela at the time. Segovia was impressed enough with the pair, because he invited them to his master classes that were to start the following year in Siena, Italy.

Studies in Europe
Despite their obvious qualities as promising guitarists, it took some time for Díaz and Riera to establish themselves in Europe. Riera started his studies in the Real Conservatorio de Música y Declamación in Madrid in 1952. He obtained a "First Class Diploma" in 1953. In this year, he started his career as a classical guitar performer.

During the Summer of 1954, he was able to attend Segovia's master classes at the Accademia Musicale Chigiana in Siena. Segovia led him to perfect his already highly developed technique. It was generally accepted that both he and Díaz were above average in terms of technique and repertoire. Furthermore, they renewed the rather stale (at the time) guitar repertoire, by bringing to Europe the works of important Latin-American composers, which were largely unknown at the time.

Graduation and concert tours
In 1954, Riera married Julia Esteban Esteban in Spain and established Madrid as his main place of residence. They had four children together, all of whom were to become musicians: María Josefina, Rubén, Andrés Raúl and Juan José.

The second half of the 1950s was spent touring Europe and Venezuela, playing the repertoire that Segovia had established, as well as the works of Latin-American composers such as the aforementioned Lauro, Heitor Villa-Lobos, Agustín Barrios Mangoré, Manuel Ponce, Vicente Emilio Sojo and his old master, Raúl Borges. During those touring years, he started introducing his own pieces in his repertoire. Riera also performed many guitar duo concerts with his friend Alirio Díaz. In 1956, the two recorded an LP of popular Latin American pieces under a pseudonym to avoid incurring the wrath of Segovia, who frowned at the popular repertoire for the guitar (the album was released as El Uno y El Otro i.e. "One and the Other").

New York: the consolidation of a triple career
In 1962, Venezuelan writer and composer Conny Méndez invited Riera to stage a concert in New York, where she was residing. The recital was very successful in a city which, although traditionally is rich in culture, was thirsty for good classical guitar. Riera ended up staying for years, consolidating his triple career as composer, concert guitarist and teacher.