[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Quintus Labienus

ge in Parthia. He then imposed heavy tributes. He sent a cavalry force to plunder Palmyra, a rich city, but this was foiled by the townsfolk. He garrisoned Syria. This was the mistreatment Cassius Dio referred to. After this Antony went to Egypt to join Cleopatra.

Pompeian-Parthian invasion of 40BC

Cassius Dio gave the details of Labienus's campaign. He invaded Phoenicia and attacked Apamea, but he was repulsed. However, he won over all the Roman garrisons in Phoenicia without resistance because they were soldiers who had fought with Cassius and Brutus and were sent there when Mark Antony incorporated them in his forces. They knew Labienus. Lucius Decidius Saxa, who had been put in command in Syria by Antony,  was the only one who did not defect. He fled. Labienus pursued him and defeated him and his few followers. Saxa fled to Antioch. The townsfolk of Apamea surrendered because they thought that Saxa was dead. Labienus forced Antioch to surrender and Saxa fled to Cilicia. Labienus caught up with him, captured him and executed him. Meanwhile, Pacorus subjugated Syria, except for Tyre, whose townsfolk supported the Roman soldiers who fled there. Pacorus did not have a fleet and could not seize the city. He moved on to Judea, invaded it, deposed Hyrcanus II and installed, Antigonus II Mattathias his nephew and foe. Josephus gave a detailed account of events in Judea when the Parthians invaded it.

Meanwhile, Labienus occupied Cilicia and obtained the allegiance of the cities on the southern coast of Anatolia except for three cities in Caria:  Stratonicea, Mylasa and Alabanda. The latter two cities had accepted garrisons from him, but then murdered them and rebelled. Labienus seized Alabanda and punished its people. He destroyed Mylasa after it had been abandoned. He besieged Stratonicea for a long time but did not manage to capture it. He styled himself as Parthicus (conqueror of the Parthians), thereby taking a “title from those whom he was leading against the Romans, as if it were the Parthians and not his fellow-citizens that he was defeating.” 

Plutarch wrote that Mark Antony was slow to respond to Labienus's invasions because he was caught up with the charms of Cleopatra in Egypt and a luxurious lifestyle, feasting, playing sports and engaging in other youthful pursuits. He was surprised by reports that his wife Fulvia had started a war with Octavian in Italy (the Perusine War, 41-40 BC) and that Labienus "was subduing Asia from the Euphrates and Syria as far as Lydia and Ionia." Cassius Dio, instead, wrote that Antony kept himself informed. However, he failed to take defensive measures, because now that he was in power he did not pay enough attention to his duties and enjoyed the life of luxury of the Egyptians “until he was entirely demoralised.” When he was forced to take action, he sailed to Tyre to help Tyre. However, when he saw that Syria had already been occupied, he abandoned it. He sailed along the coast all the way to Greece and then to Italy to support Fulvia in her war against Octavian. He seized Sipontum and besieged Brundisium. When Fulvia died, the hostilities were terminated and there was reconciliation. Antony and Octavian signed the Treaty of Brundisium in September 40 BC.

Mark Antony returned to Greece. He sent Publius Ventidius Bassus to Asia against the Parthians and Labienus. When Ventidius came upon Labienus, he was frightened by its suddenness. He was  without the Parthians and had only troops which had been levied locally. Ventidius pushed him out of the  Roman province of Asia and pursued him into Syria with his lightest troops. He caught up with him near the Taurus Mountains. The two forces stayed encamped for several days. Ventidius was waiting for his heavy-armed troops and Labienus was waiting for the Parthians. Both arrived at the same time. Ventidius was worried about the large enemy cavalry and remained in his camp on a hill. The latter, confident in the strength of their numbers, rode up the hill at dawn without waiting for Labienus’ forces to join them. Ventidius did not respond and the cavalry made a charge up the slope. When they were some way up the Romans attacked and pushed the enemy downhill. Many were killed in combat and a larger number was trampled over by those who were retreating while they were still going up the hill.