[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Korean People's Army Ground Force

fter this rank.

Uniform 

KPA officers and soldiers are most often seen wearing a mix of olive green or tan uniforms. The basic dress uniform consists of a tunic and pants (white tunics for general officers in special occasions); female soldiers wear knee length skirts but can sometimes wear pants.

Caps or peaked caps, especially for officers (and sometimes berets for women) are worn in spring and summer months and a Russian style fur hat (the Ushanka hats) in winter. A variant of the Disruptive Pattern Material, the Disruptive Pattern Combat Uniform (green), the ERDL pattern, the M81 Woodland and the Tigerstripe is also being worn by a few and rare images of North Korean army officers and service personnel. In Non-Dress uniforms, a steel helmet (The DPRK produced Type 40 helmet, a copy of the Soviet SSH40, see Soviet helmets during World War II) seems to be the most common headgear, and is sometimes worn with a camouflage covering.

Standard military boots are worn for combat, women wear low heel shoes or heel boots for formal parades. Some male troops may also wear knee-high boots, reserved for the guard of honour in ceremonies such as welcoming the supreme leader Kim Jong-Un and foreign dignatries, as well as formal parades, often making the pants "baggier".

Camouflage uniforms are slowly becoming more common in the KPA. During the April 15, 2012 parade, Kevlar helmets were displayed in certain KPA units and similar helmets are currently used by KPA special operations forces.

During the parade on 10 October 2020, a range of at least 5 new pixelated camouflage patterns and new soldiers’ combat gear of all branches, including the North Korea People's Ground Forces were shown for the first time. Even though it was difficult to tell the patterns apart from each other, two different green based designs, an arid camouflage design, blue camouflage design, and a two-color pixelated camouflage pattern for mountain and winter warfare were all observed. Also, the use of Multicam pattern uniforms by North Korean military personnel was first documented in 2020 during the same parade, although uniforms in this design may well have appeared in the armed forces inventory much earlier.

See also 

 Republic of Korea Army
 Korean People's Army
 Korean People's Navy
 Korean People's Army Air and Anti-Air Force
 Korean People's Army Special Operation Force
 Korean People's Army Strategic Force
 Worker-Peasant Red Guards

References 

Robert A. Scalapino, Chong-Sik Lee, Communism in Korea: The society, University of California Press, 1972 – Political Science

External links 

 Military and Security Developments Involving the Democratic People's Republic of Korea 2012 
 Military and Security Developments Involving the Democratic People's Republic of Korea 2013 

 
 
Armies by country