[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Klingon culture

Klingon culture is a set of customs and practices of Klingons depicted in the fictional Star Trek universe. The fictional Klingon society is based on Klingon traditions and conventions, as well as a constructed language named Klingon. Klingons were created by Gene L. Coon.

Portrayal over time
Star Trek: The Original Series (TOS), which ran from 1966 to 1969, modeled the conflict between the Federation and the Klingon Empire on the Cold War (1947–1991), a period of geopolitical tension between the Western countries and the Soviet Union. TOS Klingons were not given many cultural traits, either unique or Soviet-like, beyond a generic need for domination and tyranny. However, they were typically portrayed with bronze skin and facial hair suggestive of North Asian peoples such as the Mongols (in fact, Gene L. Coon's only physical description of them in his Errand of Mercy script is "Oriental, hard-faced").

For Star Trek: The Motion Picture (1979), the Klingons were "reimagined", or retconned, and were depicted with ridged foreheads, new uniforms, and a distinctive Klingon language. Gene Roddenberry said that the movie-era Klingons are closer to his original vision but could not be realized in a low-budget television show.

With the advent of Star Trek: The Next Generation (1987–1994), as well as in subsequent series, the Klingons became allies of the Federation, and the portrayal of their culture changed to resemble the adoption of a warrior code similar to that of the samurai (or, rather, Western imaginations of them) and Vikings. Klingon starship crews have also been compared to motorcycle gangs. Certain elements of this retconned Klingon culture, such as a general influence of Japanese culture with honor at the forefront, were actually first explored with the script for the planned two-part "Kitumba" episode for the unproduced Star Trek: Phase II (1978) series. Writer John Meredith Lucas said: 

Particularly emphasized in Star Trek films and series after The Motion Picture, the Klingon culture is depicted as being centered on honor and combat. The High Council, led by a Chancellor (in theory, a steward for the mythical office of Emperor), governs the Klingon Empire. The physical position of the Emperor was re-established in practice in the 24th century, largely as a figurehead.

Sexuality
Klingon mating rituals involve dominant and combative attitudes and rituals. In the constructed Klingon language, parmaqqaypu (singular parmaqqay) are chosen mates for dedicated recreational sexual congress. As The Doctor from Voyager commented, it is considered a good omen if a clavicle is broken during the wedding night. In Star Trek films and series, a Klingon biting someone indicates their desire to mate.

In the Star Trek: The Next Generation episode "The Dauphin", Worf states that the mating ritual consists of a woman roaring, throwing things at the male, and occasionally clawing at him while the male reads love poetry and "ducks a lot". Klingons are known to have sexual relations with humans, with the character B'Elanna Torres being an example of a Klingon-human hybrid; Torres' mother is a Klingon. In the Next Generation episode "Justice", Worf states that he must resist his urges for "general sex" as the only women available to him are human females, who are more "fragile" than Klingon women. During Worf's time as a member of the crew of Deep Space Nine, he and Jadzia Dax develop a romantic relationship and eventually marry. Worf sees sexual relations between mates as a deeply spiritual activity and views sex without being formally mated to be dishonorable, though it's not known if this is a widely held societal belief among Klingons or simply Worf's personal stance.

Religion 
According to legend, Kortar, the "first" Klingon, and his mate were created in a place called QI'tu'. The two destroyed the gods who made them and turned the heavens into ashes. This event is recounted in marriage ceremonies through the following singular passage: