[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chalgrove

July 1946. Martin-Baker still uses the airfield. It is mostly used for ejection seat testing and very few aircraft now use the airfield. In 2016 the Ministry of Defence transferred ownership of the airfield site to the Homes and Communities Agency (HCA), which in 2018 was succeeded by Homes England.

Chalgrove Band
Chalgrove Band is an amateur brass band, which was formed toward the end of the 19th century, initially as Chalgrove Temperance Band. The earliest known photograph of the band is dated in 1906. At that time, band practices were held in the top room of the Red Lion public house. Following a break in its history, the band was re-formed in 1972 by three local enthusiasts. In 2007 the band won the London and Southern Counties Fourth Section Championship, and was promoted to the Third Section. 

In 2011, the band won promotion to the Second Section of the British Brass Band Association. In March 2012, the band took part in its first London and Southern Counties Areas Contest in the Second Section and came second, qualifying for the National Finals in Cheltenham in September 2012. The band performs regularly in the village, including the May Day Parade, the Remembrance Sunday service and concerts in the Village Hall, which is also where it rehearses.

Amenities

The village has three public houses, all on the High Street. The Lamb is at the west end of the village. The Crown and the Red Lion are in the centre of the village, beside the green. The Red Lion is a 15th- or 16th-century building. Its outside walls are stone but inside is some timber framing including a cruck. The pub belongs to St Mary's church and is vested in the Trustees of the Church Estate, but is leased out. In the High Street are a sub-post office and four other shops including two grocers, a florist and a pharmacy. The village has a general practitioners' practice, The Brook Surgery.

The village has a primary school, with a foundation class for younger children. The local authority provides a bus service for older children to travel to local secondary schools. Monument Park business park, opposite the airfield and away from the main village, hosts a range of businesses. Chalgrove Cricket Club plays in Oxfordshire Cricket Association League Division Six. Chalgrove Cavaliers Football Club organises football for boys and girls between the ages of five and 16. Chalgrove FC is the parish's football club for adults. It played in the Oxfordshire Senior Football League in the 2012–13 season. It has a partnership agreement with the Chalgrove Cavaliers.

Chalgrove has a Women's Institute.  Regular local events include the May Day Festival and the annual Chalgrove Music Festival, held every year since 1988. Chalgrove has held a Midsummer Ball in alternate years in the grounds of Chalgrove Manor. It was due to hold one in 2018 but this was cancelled for want of support. 

Chalgrove Village Hall hosted the annual World Miniature Wargaming Championship (TtS! ruleset) in September 2022 and has done since 2016. 

Thames Travel bus route T1 serves Chalgrove six days a week, linking the village with Oxford via Stadhampton, Garsington and Cowley and with Watlington via Cuxham. Buses run hourly from Mondays to Fridays and every 125 minutes on Saturdays. There is no Sunday service.

References

Bibliography

External links

Chalgrove Parish Council
Chalgrove.info
St Mary's Church, Chalgrove – Oxfordshire

Civil parishes in Oxfordshire
Villages in Oxfordshire