[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battles Without Honor and Humanity: Proxy War

ss Masakichi Makihara is Boss Hamazaki's sworn brother, while Uchimoto backs the Komori Family. Uchimoto is able to settle the dispute on his terms, enhancing his prestige and paving the way for him to pledge loyalty to Boss Akashi. In response, Yamamori formalizes an alliance with the Shinwa Group.

After foiling an assassination attempt ordered by Makihara, Hirono forces Takeda, Matsunaga, and Eda to reconcile with Uchimoto by having Okubo use his influence to threaten their standing in Hiroshima, hoping to damage Yamamori's alliance with the Shinwa Group and compel him to retire. Takeda figures out his plan and persuades Yamamori to have him expelled for instigating the feud, with Matsunaga subsequently retiring from the family rather than act against Hirono. In retaliation for Hirono's expulsion, the Akashi Family forces Uchimoto to cut all of his ties to the Yamamori Family. Kuramoto attempts to kill Makihara at a movie theater, but is gunned down after Saijo, who Makihara paid to betray Hirono, sells him out. His cremation ceremony is shot up in an effort to kill Hirono, who angrily clutches the shattered remains of Kuramoto's urn in his fist as he swears revenge.

Cast

Bunta Sugawara as Shozo Hirono
Takeshi Katō as Noburo Uchimoto
Akira Kobayashi as Akira Takeda
Mikio Narita as Hiroshi Matsunaga
Kunie Tanaka as Masakichi Makihara
Shingo Yamashiro as Shoichi Eda
Nobuo Kaneko as Yoshio Yamamori
Tsunehiko Watase as Takeshi Kuramoto
Hideo Murota as Hideo Hayakawa
Tatsuo Umemiya as Shinichi Iwai
Asao Uchida as Kenichi Okubo
Tatsuo Endō as Shigeo Aihara
Tetsuro Tanba as Tatsuo Akashi
Rinichi Yamamoto as Teruo Miyaji
Masataka Iwao as Shiro Hamazaki
Daisuke Awaji as Anji Komori
Harumi Sone as Toshio Ueda
Masao Hori as Ryuhei Toyoda
Kinji Nakamura as Yoshikazu Itami
Hiroshi Nawa as Tuneo Muraoka
Yasuhiro Suzuki as Fumio Sugihara
Sen Okaji as Hiromitsu Nagao
Takuzo Kawatani as Katsuharu Saijo
Reiko Ike as Tomie
Toshie Kimura as Rika Yamamori
Akira Shioji as Hirono and Kuramoto's former teacher
Masako Araki as Kuramoto's mother
Eizo Kitamura as Hashizume
Eiko Nakamura as Ena
Mitsue Horikoshi as Hiromi, Yamamori's mistress

Production
Due to the success of the first film, Toei demanded that screenwriter Kazuo Kasahara finally write about the Hiroshima yakuza war depicted in Kōichi Iiboshi's articles, which are in-turn based on the journals of Kōzō Minō, and split it into two films. Kasahara had purposely avoided that part of the story for the first two installments, not only because he was daunted by all the names and relationships that were presented in a complex way, but also because he would have to write about the Yamaguchi-gumi and was concerned about the agreements he made to the people involved in the incidents.

He felt that he could only write about the internal struggles (seen in Part 3) and the large battle (seen in Part 4), in which case the movie would not be very cinematic. He did not know how to convey all the subtle and hidden emotions of the characters onto the screen, and that even if he did it would not have enough action. Kasahara told Toei he could not guarantee the commercial success of such a movie, to which they responded that he had to because it was his job and that he had already received a large paycheck. Although he disagrees with that last part, Kasahara admitted to having borrowed money from the company to build his house and thus did what he was told.

The writer flew to Hiroshima on April 2, 1973 to ask Minō and Takeshi Hattori, second president of the Kyosei-kai, the reasons for the war. He found that the two men each had opposite explanations, but because the films were based on Minō, Kasahara sided with him. Upon following the conflicts between the high ranking bosses and their complicated relationships, he had a nervous breakdown.

Kasahara flew to Kure again on May 14 to ask Minō to speak frankly. The writer said that by now the ex-yakuza realized the films were just "silly plays" and truly gave him the facts. Upon learning them, Kasahara felt the whole thing even more complex and mysterious and decided to put everything into a "human comedy" whether it made sense or not. Through this trip he met Suzuyo, the mother of Masahiro Ōnishi who was the model for Wakasugi in the first film. She told him her son could finally rest in peace thanks to the movie. The writer then created the character Kuramoto and his mother thanks to this encounter. The name Kuramoto came from fellow screenwriter Sō Kuramoto.