[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Provinces of Eritrea

dominantly follow Oriental Orthodox Christianity and are members of the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahdo Church, with a considerable minority from the Sunni Muslim, Roman Catholic, and Lutheran communities. Hamasien was politically influential within the Eritrean highlands, in Eritrea and the whole region.

History 
The former province Hamassien was the political and economic center of Eritrea; judging from excavations in the Sembel area outside Asmara, it has been so since at least the 9th century BC. The earliest surviving appearance of the name "Hamasien" is believed to have been the region ḤMS²M, i.e. ḤMŠ, mentioned in a Sabaic inscription of the Axumite king Ezana. The region may have been mentioned as early as Puntite times by Ancient Egyptian records as 'MSW (i.e. "Amasu"), a region of Punt.

During the early medieval centuries, it was ruled by the Raesis of the Hazega and Tseazega and the Bahri negasi making their center of administration in Debarwa. According to Francisco Álvares, writing in the early 16th century, the Raesi of the Tseazegas (Habtesulus) had been able to collect tax by extending their authority almost as far as Suakin in modern Sudan.

Hamsien appears on indigenous maps of the northern Horn of Africa in the 15th century. It was governed by a chief called Zarsanāy in the sixteenth century.

Despite the Emperor of Ethiopia's grants of control of the country of the Bahri negesitat during the Zagwe and Solomonic dynasties, the 1984 "Proceedings of the Permanent Peoples' Tribunal of the International League for the Rights and Liberation of Peoples" would claom that "There was no administration that connected Hamassien and Serae to the centre of the Ethiopian Kingdom With the decline of the importance of the Midri Bahri in the 17th to 19th centuries, the province enjoyed a period of communal rule under councils of village elders, the so-called shimagile who enforced traditional laws which had prevailed uniquely in the region alongside feudal authority since ancient times. The region appeared in European maps as 'The Republic of Hamasien'. Following the death of Emperor Yohannes at the Battle of Gallabat, Hamasien was occupied by the Italians, who incorporated it into their colony of Eritrea and making one of its villages, Asmara, the capital of the colony, a status it retains today as the capital of the sovereign country of Eritrea.

Sahel 
Sahel was a former province of Eritrea until 1996, when it was absorbed into the present-day Northern Red Sea region. Its capital was Nakfa.

Semhar 
Semhar is the name of a former province of Eritrea, which has now become almost incorporated into the Northern Red Sea Region when the number and names of provinces were unilaterally changed in 1996. The province was thinly settled with Massawa as the provincial capital. The population is mainly Tigre, Afar, Saho and Tigrinya. The Tigre and Tigrinya language are mainly spoken. The population is mainly pastoralist and agro-pastroalist.

It is a common name for Eritrean females and at times males as well. Semhar is also a city in Eritrea.

Senhit 

Senhit was a former province of Eritrea until 1996, when it was absorbed into the present-day Anseba region. Its capital was Keren.

Serae 
Serae or Seraye (Tigrigna/Tigre/Ge’ez: ሰራየ) is a former province of Eritrea which had an estimated population of 515,000 in 1990 (the most populous province) and an area of . The province is home to two of the Eritrean ethnic groups namely the Tigrinya and Tigre. It has since been incorporated primarily into the Debub Region, though some western districts have become part of the Gash-Barka region. It is believed that the name of the province is from the "dark forests" which once thrived on its fertile ground.

Today the region is home to twelve monasteries of the Eritrean Orthodox Church as well as a number of new factories in the town of Mendefera.

Districts

History 
Serae/Seraye which in old books called as Sarawi (ሰራዊ) is an ancient entity which was a region of the Kingdom of D'mt, which would evolve in the Kingdom of Aksum and later the center of the kingdom of Medri Bahri centered in Debarwa with its leaders Bahri Negasi. Serae was bound by regions of Akele Guzay in the east, Hamassien in the North, Tigray proper (Adwa/Shire/Axum) in the south and Gash-Setit in the west During this Axumite period, the region became a successful trading region as it lay between the Red Sea port of Adulis, Asmara, and Axum.