[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adapted Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty

urope treaty is dead, because NATO had not ratified the agreement.
 2007 – NATO countries demand that Russia withdraw Russian soldiers from Moldova and Georgia before they will ratify the agreement.
 July 2007 – Russia suspends ratification.
 November 2007 – Russia withdraws from the treaty.

Status

Signed
Signed on November 19, during the OSCE's 1999 Istanbul summit by 30 states:
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Luxembourg, Moldova, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, and the United States.

Four states did not sign the treaty when they joined NATO, despite a preliminary agreement to do so: Slovenia and the three Baltic states: Lithuania, Estonia, and Latvia. These states are unable to do so because the treaty cannot be joined until all the original signatories have ratified it.

Ratified
Ratified by 4 of the 30 signatories:
Belarus
Kazakhstan
Russia (Ratification suspended in 2007)
Ukraine

Moldova and Georgia said they would not ratify it until Russia withdraws its forces from their territories, notably the Russian troops stationed in the breakaway republics of Abkhazia and Transnistria. This has become NATO countries reason to abstain from ratifying in 2007.

Russia suspended its ratification on July 14, 2007, amidst cooling relations between the U.S. and Russia.

See also
Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)
1999 Istanbul summit

References

External links
 The Adapted Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty at a Glance — Arms Control Association
 Agreement on Adaptation of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe - OSCE website
 "Maturing partnership" — Russian Defense Minister, Sergei Ivanov, NATO Review, (winter 2005)
History of NATO – the Atlantic Alliance - UK Government site

Treaties concluded in 1999
Treaties not entered into force
Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe
1999 in Turkey
Treaties of Belarus
Treaties of Kazakhstan
Treaties of Russia
Treaties of Ukraine