[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 139]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

Henriette shrugged her shoulders. "I fear my sense of humour is
defective. I can't see the justice of repudiating the duty of one's
position, since there the position _is_, an accomplished fact not to be
denied. Why not make the best of it?"

"Henriette, you are amazing! Supposing a wicked bigamist had persuaded a
woman to go through a false marriage ceremony, and when she became aware
of her real position, imagine him saying to her, with grave and virtuous
mien, 'My dear, why repudiate the duties of your position, since there
your position _is_, an accomplished fact not to be denied?'"

"Oh, that's preposterous," cried Henriette.

"It's preposterous and it's parallel."

"Hubert did not try to entrap you into doing what was wrong."

"We need not discuss that, for it is not the point. The point is that
the position (be that right or wrong) was forced on the woman in both
cases by fraud, and is then used as a pretext to exact from her the
desired conduct; what the author of the fraud euphoniously calls
'duty.'"

"You are positively insulting!" cried Henriette, rising.

By this time, Hadria had allowed the doll to slip back, and its limp
body was hanging down disconsolately from her elbow, although she was
clutching it, with absent-minded anxiety, to her side, in the hope of
arresting its threatened fall.

"Oh, look at dolly, look, look!" cried Martha reproachfully. Hadria
seized its legs and pulled it back again, murmuring some consolatory
promise to its mistress.

"It is strange how you succeed in putting me on the defensive,
Henriette--I who have been wronged. A horrible wrong it is too. It has
ruined my life. You will never know all that it implies, never, never,
though I talk till Doomsday. Nobody will--except Professor Fortescue."

Henriette gave a horrified gesture. "I believe you are in love with that
man. _That_ is the cause of all this wild conduct."

Miss Temperley had lost self-control for a moment.

Hadria looked at her steadily.

"I beg your pardon. I spoke in haste, Hadria. You have your faults, but
Hubert has nothing to fear from you in that respect, I am sure."

"Really?" Hadria had come forward and was standing with her left elbow
on the mantel-piece, the doll still tucked under her right arm. "And you
think that I would, at all hazards, respect a legal tie which no feeling
consecrates?"

"I do you that justice," murmured Henriette, turning very white.

"You think that I should regard myself as so completely the property of
a man whom I do not love, and who actively dislikes me, as to hold my
very feelings in trust for him. Disabuse yourself of that idea,
Henriette. I claim rights over myself, and I will hold myself in pawn
for no man. This is no news either to you or to Hubert. Why pretend that
it is?"

Henriette covered her face with her hands.

"I can but hope," she said at length, "that even now you are saying
these horrible things out of mere opposition. I cannot, I simply
_cannot_ believe, that you would bring disgrace upon us all."

"If you chose to regard it as a disgrace that I should make so bold as
to lay claim to myself, that, it seems to me, would be your own fault."
Henriette sprang forward white and trembling, and clutched Hadria's arm
excitedly.

"Ah! you _could_ not! you _could_ not! Think of your mother and father,
if you will not think of your husband and children. You terrify me!"

Hadria was moved with pity at Henriette's white quivering face.

"Don't trouble," she said, more gently. "There is no thunderbolt about
to fall in our discreet circle." (A hideous crash from the overturning
of one of Martha's Eiffel Towers seemed to belie the words.)

Miss Temperley's clutch relaxed, and she gave a gasp of relief.

"Tell me, Hadria, that you did not mean what you said."

"I can't do that, for I meant it, every syllable."

"Promise me then at least, that before you do anything to bring misery
and disgrace on us all, you will tell us of your intention, and give us
a chance of putting our side of the matter before you."

"Of protecting your vested interests," said Hadria; "your right of way
through my flesh and spirit."

"Of course you put it unkindly."

"I will not make promises for the future. The future is quite enough
hampered with the past, without setting anticipatory traps and springes
for unwary feet. But I refuse this promise merely on general principles.
I am not about to distress you in that particular way, though I think
you would only have yourselves to blame if I _were_."

Miss Temperley drew another deep breath, and the colour began to return
to her face.

"So far, so good," she said. "Now tell me--Is there nothing that would
make you accept your duties?"

"Even if I were to accept what you call my duties, it would not be in
the spirit that you would desire to see. It would be in cold
acknowledgment of the force of existing facts--facts which I regard as