[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tiferet Yisrael Synagogue

by Hasidim.

Destruction

During the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, the Tiferet Yisrael Synagogue was used as a post by the Haganah in the defense of the Old City. During the Jordanian Legion's campaign to capture the Old City, it blew up the synagogue an hour after midnight on the night of May 20–21, 1948.

Modern-day ruin and reconstruction plans
Following the Six-Day War, the decision was made to leave the ruins of the synagogue as they were. Only its western wall remains. In 2010, at the dedication of the reconstructed Hurva Synagogue, also destroyed in 1948, plans were announced by the same donors who sponsored the Hurva rebuilding, to rebuild the Tiferet Yisrael Synagogue as well.

In November 2012, the Jerusalem municipality approved a plan to rebuild the synagogue. Funding would come from an anonymous donor. As of mid-2023 the exterior structure has been completed.

Tiferes Yisroel yeshiva and synagogue

In 1953 Rabbi Mordechai Shlomo Friedman, the Boyaner Rebbe of New York, laid foundations for a new Ruzhiner Torah centre in the New City of Jerusalem to replace the destroyed Ruzhiner synagogue. In 1957 the Ruzhiner yeshiva, called Mesivta Tiferes Yisroel, was inaugurated with the support of all of the Rebbes of the Ruzhiner dynasty. A large synagogue was built adjacent to it, also bearing the name Tiferes Yisroel; the current Boyaner Rebbe, Rabbi Nachum Dov Brayer, leads his Hasidut from here. The design of the synagogue, located on the western end of Malkhei Yisrael Street close to the Central Bus Station, includes a large white dome, reminiscent of the domed Tiferet Yisrael Synagogue that was destroyed in the Old City.

See also
 Ruzhin (Hasidic dynasty)

References

External links
 Early Architectural Drawing of the Tiferet Yisrael Synagogue – Jerusalem, 1855, an architectural plan with a section and elevation of the proposed building, drawn and signed in Jerusalem in 1855. At 2016 auction page, accessed November 2020.

Ashkenazi Jewish culture in Jerusalem
Ashkenazi synagogues
Hasidic Judaism in Israel
Synagogues in Jerusalem
Late modern history of Jerusalem
Former synagogues in Israel
Destroyed synagogues
Jewish Quarter (Jerusalem)
Ruzhin (Hasidic dynasty)
1870s establishments in Ottoman Syria
1948 disestablishments in Mandatory Palestine
Synagogue buildings with domes
Buildings and structures demolished in 1948
Yiddish culture in Mandatory Palestine
Rebuilt synagogues