[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Georgette Mosbacher

Georgette Mosbacher (née Paulsin; January 16, 1947) is an American business executive, entrepreneur, political activist who served as the United States Ambassador to Poland from 2018 to 2021. She is the chairman of the Green Beret Foundation advisory board, and a Fox News contributor. On November 19, 2015, President Barack Obama nominated her as a member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.

Mosbacher started her career as an executive in 1987 when she purchased the struggling cosmetics firm La Prairie, outbidding companies such as Revlon, Avon, and Estee Lauder. After selling La Prairie in 1991 to Beiersdorf for a profit, in the 1990s she founded Georgette Mosbacher Enterprises, her own business and finance consulting company. From 2000 to 2015 she served as CEO of Borghese, a cosmetics manufacturer based in New York City. Mosbacher authored two motivational books for women in the 1990s: Feminine Force through Simon & Schuster and It Takes Money Honey through HarperCollins.

Active in American politics, Mosbacher previously served as a co-chair of the Republican National Committee’s Finance Committee, and she was the first woman to serve as the general chairman of the Republican Governors Association. Mosbacher has been noted in the media for her private fundraising events since the 1990s, and after supporting John McCain's bid for senate in 1998, she served as national co-chairman of McCain's 2000 presidential campaign  and also anchored fundraising efforts for campaigns such as Bush Cheney '04. Involved with a number of non-profit organizations, in 1995 she founded the New York Center for Children, which aims to assist abused children and their families. A fellow at the Foreign Policy Association, she is a board-member for Business Executives for National Security (BENS) and the Atlantic Council, among other organizations.

On February 14, 2018, President Donald Trump nominated Mosbacher to be Ambassador to the Republic of Poland. On July 12, 2018 her nomination was confirmed by the United States Senate by voice vote. On December 26, 2020, Mosbacher announced  her intent to resign, effective January 20, 2021.

Early life and education
A native of Highland, Indiana, Georgette Mosbacher (née Paulsin) was born to Dorothy (Bell) and George Paulsin. Her father died in an automobile accident when she was young, leaving the seven-year-old Georgette and her three younger siblings under the care of their mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother. When her mother returned to work, Mosbacher took on childcare duties for her brother George and two sisters, Melody and Lyn.

Mosbacher attended high school in Highland, Indiana, graduating in 1965. She went on to earn a B.S. in education from Indiana University in 1970. As an undergraduate student she worked three jobs in order to fund her education.  After graduating from Indiana University, Mosbacher moved to Chicago to take a job at an advertising firm.

Business career

Mosbacher purchased the high-end cosmetics firm La Prairie in 1987, outbidding companies such as Revlon, Avon, and Estee Lauder. Despite the fact that La Prairie had been struggling with sales, she had raised the funds for the purchase by pitching to investors and venture capitalists. As primary owner of the Switzerland-based company, she also served as CEO and president for four years. Among other changes, she sold La Prairie in 1991 to Beiersdorf, a large personal care products provider based in Germany.

After selling La Prairie, in the 1990s she founded her own consulting company, Georgette Mosbacher Enterprises. Described as an "international entrepreneurial and consulting business in New York City," she served as chairman and CEO.  Mosbacher published her first book, the semi-autobiographical and women's motivational guide Feminine Force: Release the Power Within to Create the Life You Deserve, in 1993. Released through Simon & Schuster, it had a foreword by Kathie Lee Gifford. Her second book, It Takes Money Honey: A Get-Smart Guide to Total Financial Freedom,  was also partly focused on finances, and was released through HarperCollins in 1998.

After serving as a consultant to the company since 1999, in 2000 Mosbacher was appointed chief executive officer of Borghese, a prominent cosmetics manufacturer based in New York City.  She also took on the role of president, and by 2006 had been appointed chairwoman. The Borghese brand had first started in the 14th century in Italy, using minerals and ingredients from Tuscany. Upon becoming CEO, she closed half of the line's outlets to retain exclusivity, and reduced the number of items to focus on core products. During her early years at Borghese, she helped the company expand its global operations and establish a wide distribution network in China.