[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Andrés Guardado

ounced that the 35-year-old Guardado had extended his contract with Real Betis for one more season. On 23 April, in the Spanish Cup final against Valencia, Guardado came on as a substitute in extra time in a 1–1 draw that went into penalties, successfully converting his shot as his team won the cup.

International career

Guardado made his first appearance for Mexico in a friendly match against Hungary on 14 December 2005, four months after his first-team debut with Atlas. He was then called up to represent his country at the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany, where he appeared in the 2–1 loss to Argentina in the round of 16, starting as a shifting attacking midfielder/wing-back alongside Ramón Morales but was replaced by Gonzalo Pineda after picking up an injury in the second half; after the departure of manager Ricardo La Volpe, his replacement Hugo Sánchez kept the player in his squad.

Guardado's first game under the new manager was an exhibition game against the United States on 7 February 2007, where he came on as a substitute in a 0–2 defeat. On 28 February, in a friendly with Venezuela, he scored his first international goal in Mexico's 3–1 victory.

In the final of the 2007 CONCACAF Gold Cup, Guardado scored the opening goal against the United States. During the second half he collided head-on with Jonathan Spector while both attempted to head the ball, but recovered to play the rest of the match, which ended in a 2–1 loss; he was listed as an Honorable Mention for the competition's All-Tournament Team. He also participated in that year's Copa América, scoring the third goal against Uruguay in the third-place match.

Javier Aguirre included Guardado in the roster for the 2010 World Cup. He assisted Rafael Márquez in the opening game of the World Cup against hosts South Africa, in a 1–1 draw. An expected starter, he lacked playing time and appeared in three out of four games, in another last-16 exit at the hands of Argentina.

In May 2011, Guardado was called up by José Manuel de la Torre for the 2011 Gold Cup. He scored his first brace with the national team during that tournament, in a 4–1 win over Costa Rica on 12 June. He found the net again in the final in a 4–2 victory over the United States, as Mexico retained the trophy.

Guardado made the squad for the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup in Brazil. As El Tri failed to progress from the group stage, he played all three matches.

On 5 March 2014, Guardado made his 100th appearance for Mexico in a friendly with Nigeria. Selected by Miguel Herrera for the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, he started all the games as a left midfielder, and scored in the last group phase fixture, a 3–1 win against Croatia. Mexico faced the Netherlands in the round of 16, being controversially eliminated after succumbing to a 2–1 defeat. Following the end of the tournament, Herrera declared that Guardado would captain the following September friendlies with Chile and Bolivia, in instances when actual captain Rafael Márquez was absent.

At the 2015 Gold Cup, Guardado's first tournament as captain, he scored six times en route to the title; the first being a first-half effort in a 6–0 demolition of Cuba in the group stage, the second in a 4–4 draw against Trinidad and Tobago, and his third via penalty kick in the last minute of stoppage time in the 1–0 quarter-final victory against Costa Rica. In the semi-finals with Panama, he scored twice from the penalty spot to help El Tri come from behind and win 2–1 and, in the decisive match against Jamaica, scored the opener in an eventual 3–1 victory, becoming the first player to score in three Gold Cup finals, and subsequently won the Golden Ball Award as the tournament's best player. He was also called up by then interim-manager Ricardo Ferretti for the subsequent CONCACAF Cup – a play-off match to determine CONCACAF's entry into the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup – against the United States, which Mexico won 3–2.

Picked for the Copa América Centenario squad by Juan Carlos Osorio, Guardado provided a cross in the opening fixture against Uruguay that led to an own goal in an eventual 3–1 victory, but was also sent off for two bookable offences. He took part in a further two games, including the team's 7–0 quarter-final defeat to Chile.

Guardado also made the final list for the 2017 Confederations Cup in Russia, where he appeared as captain in the group stage fixtures against Portugal and Russia, picking up a yellow card on both occasions and thus missing the semi-final match against Germany. He returned to the lineup in the third-place playoff, a 2–1 loss to Portugal.