[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Employment authorization document

those covering the spouses of E-1, E-2, E-3, or L-1 visa holders.

Qualifying EAD categories 
The category includes the persons who either are given an Employment Authorization Document incident to their status or must apply for an Employment Authorization Document in order to accept the employment.

 Asylee/Refugee, their spouses, and their children
 Citizens or nationals of countries falling in certain categories
 Foreign students with active
 F-1 status who wish to pursue
 Pre- or Post-Optional Practical Training, either paid or unpaid, which must be directly related to the students' major of study
 Optional Practical Training for designated science, technology, engineering, and mathematics degree holders, where the beneficiary must be employed for paid positions directly related to the beneficiary's major of study, and the employer must be using E-Verify
 The internship, either paid or unpaid, with an authorized International Organization
 The off-campus employment during the students' academic progress due to significant economic hardship, regardless of the students' major of study
 M-1 status who wish to pursue practical training which is directly related to the students' vocational training from the school
J-1 Summer Work/Travel visa holders
 Spouses of exchange visitors with certain regulation
 Eligible dependents of employees of diplomatic missions, International Organization, or NATO
 Certain employment-based nonimmigrants; limits may apply
 Certain family-based nonimmigrants
 Persons within the adjustment-of-status categories
 Other eligible categories

Persons who do not qualify for an Employment Authorization Document 
The following persons do not qualify for an Employment Authorization Document, nor can they accept any employment in the United States, unless the incident of status may allow.

 Visa waived persons for pleasure
 B-2 visitors for pleasure
 Transiting passengers via U.S. port-of-entry

The following persons do not qualify for an Employment Authorization Document, even if they are authorized to work in certain conditions, according to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service regulations (8 CFR Part 274a). Some statuses may be authorized to work only for a certain employer, under the term of 'alien authorized to work for the specific employer incident to the status', usually who has petitioned or sponsored the persons' employment. In this case, unless otherwise stated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, no approval from either the U.S. Department of Homeland Security or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services is needed.

 Temporary non-immigrant workers employed by sponsoring organizations holding following status:
 H (Dependents of H immigrants may qualify if they have been granted an extension beyond six years or based on an approved I-140 perm filing)
 I
 L-1 (Dependents of L-1 visa are qualified to apply for an Employment Authorization Document immediately)
 O-1
 Foreign student holding F-1 nonimmigrant student status, with certain working-hour limitations, who is pursuing:
 on-campus employment, regardless of the students' field of study
 curricular practical training for paid (can be unpaid) alternative study, pre-approved by the school, which must be the integral part of the students' study
 Exchange visitor employed by sponsoring organizations; limits may apply
 Crew members, only for the carrier who has employed the persons

Background: immigration control and employment regulations 
Undocumented immigrants have been considered a source of low-wage labor, both in the formal and informal sectors of the economy. However, in the late 1980s with an increasing influx of un-regulated immigration, many worried about how this would impact the economy and, at the same time, citizens. Consequently, in 1986, Congress enacted the Immigration Reform and Control Act "in order to control and deter illegal immigration to the United States" resulting increasing patrolling of U.S. borders.  Additionally, the Immigration Reform and Control Act implemented new employment regulations that imposed employer sanctions, criminal and civil penalties "against employers who knowingly [hired] illegal workers". Prior to this reform, employers were not required to verify the identity and employment authorization of their employees; for the very first time, this reform "made it a crime for undocumented immigrants to work" in the United States.

The Employment Eligibility Verification document (I-9) was required to be used by employers to "verify the identity and employment authorization of individuals hired for employment in the United States". While this form is not to be submitted unless requested by government officials, it is required that all employers have an I-9 form from each of their employees, which they must be retain for three years after day of hire or one year after employment is terminated.

I-9 qualifying citizenship or immigration statuses