[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

of the United States) were among the few organized units remaining. They became the rear guard against the pursuing Confederate cavalry. At one point, the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry made a charge with sabers drawn—rescuing a portion of Hayes' brigade that became cut off from the rest of the command.

The Confederates continued their pursuit on July 25. However, all soldiers were soaked in cold hard rain, and by now were hungry and thirsty. An ambush by Hayes' men brought the Confederate pursuit to a halt. Powell's cavalry brigade was used to drive the Confederates back. Crook was ordered to retreat north across the Potomac River, and the Confederates reoccupied Martinsburg (in addition to controlling Winchester). While most of Averell's division camped at Hagerstown, Maryland, the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry guarded a river crossing near Shepherdstown, West Virginia.

Chambersburg and Moorefield

The regiment was part of a cavalry force commanded by General Averell that pursued Confederate Generals McCausland and Bradley Johnson after the rebels burned the Pennsylvania community of Chambersburg. After multiple skirmishes and Confederate threats to burn more towns, McCausland's two brigades of cavalry were caught in Moorefield, West Virginia. In a surprise attack at dawn on August 6, 1864, Averell captured over 400 Confederates. This ruined General Early's cavalry, and it was never again the dominant force it once was. In this battle, the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry was held in reserve while five other regiments attacked two rebel camps. Colonel Powell directed portions of the attack.

Battle of Opequon
The Battle of Opequon, also known as the Third Battle of Winchester, began in the morning on September 19, 1864. Some historians consider this the most important battle of the Shenandoah Campaign. Philip Sheridan's Army of the Shenandoah defeated Jubal Early's Army of the Valley. Union casualties were about 5,000 out of 40,000 men, while Confederate casualties were about 3,600 out of 12,000 men. Generals and colonels on both sides were killed, including Confederate Colonel George S. Patton Sr.—grandfather of the famous World War II tank commander, General George S. Patton. Confederate General Robert E. Rodes was killed, and Confederate cavalry generals Fitzhugh Lee and Bradley Johnson were among the wounded. General David Allen Russell, killed in action, was among the Union casualties.

General Alfred T. Torbert was commander of the union cavalry. The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry was part of the 2nd Brigade (commanded by Colonel Powell), which was part of the 2nd Cavalry Division (commanded by General Averell). Powell's brigade was positioned on the northwest side of the battlefield between brigades led by Colonel James Schoonmaker and Colonel George Custer. During the battle, Powell sent the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry to the flank and rear of Confederate cavalry consisting of Virginians led by Colonel William H. F. Payne, which was facing Custer's brigade. Powell also sent the 3rd West Virginia Cavalry toward Payne's left flank. The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry had been newly armed with 7-shot carbines, and found them very effective against an enemy that was driven from the area in panic. During this time, Confederate General Fitzhugh Lee's horse was shot out from under him, but Lee escaped on another horse.

Battle of Fisher's Hill

This battle occurred on September 21–22, 1864. General Sheridan considered this battle a continuation of the Battle of Opequon near Winchester. General Early's Confederate army was pursued from Winchester to Fisher's Hill, where the rebels had strong fortifications and an advantageous location given the terrain. The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry regiment was still part of the 2nd Brigade led by Colonel Powell, who reported to General Averell. In this battle, the regiment initially engaged in some skirmishing while dismounted—the terrain made it difficult to fight while mounted.

Using a night march and diversions by other segments of the army, General Crook secretly positioned his infantry to the rear of the Confederate line. Averell's cavalry division, plus a division of infantry led by General James B. Ricketts, created the diversion that enabled Crook's two infantry divisions to remain concealed while they positioned themselves near Little North Mountain. Crook's fighters, who were experienced in fighting in mountainous terrain, flanked the west side of the Confederate line. Crook's surprise attack broke through the Confederate lines, and was the major reason for the Union victory. Powell's cavalry brigade pushed through the gap created by Crook, and chased rebels as they fled south. The chase continued throughout the evening.