[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 2007 New Year Honours

iter. For services to Music.
Jonathan Symonds, chief finance officer, AstraZeneca. For services to the Pharmaceutical Industry.
Professor Malcolm Stuart Tanner, Emeritus Professor of Paediatrics, Sheffield Children's Hospital. For services to Medicine.
Dr. Martyn Charles Thomas. For services to Software Engineering.
Colin Gerald Dryden Thubron, Travel Writer and Novelist. For services to Literature.
Professor Stephen Tomlinson, lately Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Cardiff University. For services to Medicine.
Graham Edward Tuppen, Chief Executive, Enterprise Inns. For services to the Hospitality Industry.
Dr. Patrick Charles Upson, managing director, Enrichment Technology Company Limited. For services to Industry.
District Judge Michael John Walker, Honorary Secretary, The Association of District Judges. For services to the Administration of Justice.
Patrick Watters, J.P., President, Convention of Scottish Local Authorities. For services to Local Government.
Ms Karen Wheeler, Change Programme Director, Her Majesty's Courts Service.
John Christensen Willis, D.L., lately Chief Executive, Salford City Council. For services to Local Government.
Ian Wilson, Corporate Director of Social Services, London Borough of Tower Hamlets. For services to Social Care.
Primrose Eileen, Mrs. Wilson, O.B.E., lately Trustee, National Heritage Memorial Fund and Northern Ireland Chair, Heritage Lottery Fund. For services to Conservation and to Heritage.
John Wood, Actor. For services to Drama.
Professor John Wood, Chief Executive, Central Laboratories of the Research Council. For services to Science.

Diplomatic Service and Overseas List
Brigadier Christopher John Anthony Hammerbeck, C.B. For services to British business interests in Hong Kong.
Michael Anthony Lambert, formerly Executive Vice-President, Commonwealth Magistrates' and Judges' Association.
Roger Loewyn Munnings. For services to British business interests in Russia.
Peter Nightingale, lately Chief Executive, China Britain Business Council. For services to trade.
Major General David Nial Creagh O'Morchoe, C.B., M.B.E. For services to British ex-servicemen and women in Ireland.
Dr. Dickson Poon. For services to UK-Asia business interests.
Christopher John Rodrigues. For services to British business interests and charitable works in the UK and US.

Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE)

Kyle McClean Alexander, Chief Executive, Laganside Corporation. For services to Regeneration in Northern Ireland.
Brian Allan, lately Director, Foundation Degree Development, University of Salford. For services to Higher Education.
John Courtney Allcock, Associate Director, National Workforce Programme, Department of Health.
Neville Robert Allport, Chief Executive, Picture Financial Group. For services to the Financial Services Industry and to charitable services in Wales.
Trevor Lloyd Baker, services to the National Health Service in the West Midlands
Douglas Crombie Anderson, Founder, Optos plc. For services to Life Sciences.
Miss Jayne Anderson, Grade B2, Ministry of Defence. 
Professor Muhammad Anwar, Professor of Ethnic Relations, University of Warwick. For services to Higher Education.
Garth Armstrong, Senior Economic Adviser, Western Balkans, Department for International Development. 
Celeste, Mrs. Dandeker-Arnold, M.B.E., Artistic Director, CandoCo Dance Company. For services to Dance.
David John Astley, Chief Executive, St. George's Healthcare NHS Trust. For services to the NHS.
Ms Celia Atherton, Director, Research in Practice. For services to Children and Families.
Richard Henry Aust, Headteacher, Chadsgrove Special School, Worcestershire. For services to Special Needs Education.
Professor Richard Nigel Bailey, lately Chair, Heritage Lottery Fund's Committee for the North East. For services to Heritage.
Robert Lawrence Banner, Chair, Rethink Charity. For services to Mental Health.
Dr. John Charles Barrett, Head, Zimbabwe Office, Department for International Development.
Trevor John Bayley, lately Acting Chief Executive and Director of Savings, National Savings and Investments, H.M. Treasury.
Christopher Ronald Beale, Chair, Institute of Directors. For services to Business.
Ms Linda Bellos, Co-Chair, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Advisory Group. For services to Diversity.
Ian Charles Bennett, Principal and Chief Executive, Strode Tertiary College, Somerset. For services to Further Education.
Ms Linda Kristin Bennett, Founder and Designer, LK Bennett. For services to the Fashion Industry.
Professor Peter Beresford, Professor of Social Policy and Director, Centre for Citizen Participation, Brunel University and Chair, Shaping Our Lives. For services to Social Care.
John Berry, Senior Manager, Her Majesty's Prison Service. 
Sister Rosaire Boden, Principal, Dominican College, Belfast. For services to Education in Northern Ireland. 
Stephanie Ann, Mrs. Boyer (Miss Boobier), Head, Face-to-Face Transformation, H.M. Revenue and Customs. 
Douglas Frederick Boyn