[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Christian Brothers Academy (Albany, New York)

thletic facilities.

CBA currently offers a college preparatory program for young men in grades 5 through 12. In 2016, the school's administration approved the addition of fifth grade to the school. CBA educates over 570 students in grades 5-12 from 49 school districts throughout the Capital Region.

Academics 
In both the high school and the junior high school, there is an honors course of study available to qualified students. In the junior high, honors students in the eighth grade are permitted to study Algebra 1 and biology, which are course offerings at the ninth grade level. The high school program allows students to take honors level courses in all of the core disciplines (mathematics, science, social studies, English and foreign language) through a combination of Advanced Placement (AP) offerings and regularly scheduled courses.

The College Board offers the AP program to high schools as an opportunity for students to pursue advanced credit in specific disciplines. The school offers AP courses in Spanish V (also College in High School/"CHS"), statistics, calculus, biology, physics, chemistry, US history, world history, English literature and composition, English language and composition, and computer science. Students who wish to enroll in AP courses must meet all prerequisites for the Honors Program. Additionally, students enrolled in an AP course are required to sit for the AP exams scheduled in May, and to pay all necessary fees for the course.

Christian Brothers Academy also offers courses for college credit through local colleges and universities. The school offers Advertising I, Principles of Marketing, Accounting I, Advanced Algebra and Topics, Advanced Algebra, Music Theory, Advanced Computer Applications, and CMPT 115 (Introduction to Business Analytics with Microsoft Excel) through Hudson Valley Community College's "College in the High School" program. Through the University at Albany's "University in the High School" program, CBA offers Spanish V (which also can be taken for AP credit), Spanish IV, and pre-calculus.

Athletics 

Christian Brothers Academy participates in athletics under the guidelines of Section II and the New York Public High School Athletic Association. Christian Brothers Academy formerly participated in the Big 10 athletic league until its disbanding in 2014. Christian Brothers Academy joined the Suburban Council in the 2015–2016 school year. CBA's athletics program is classified by Section II as a "Class AA" school, the highest classification in New York State.

CBA offers numerous athletic teams at the varsity, junior varsity, freshman, and modified levels. CYO basketball is also offered for the middle school.

Student population 

CBA's students come from a large geographic area. As of the 2023–2024 school year, CBA has an enrollment of over 570 students who represent 49 different school districts. Approximately 1/4th of its students live in cities, and 3/4ths of its students come from suburban areas. Some travel upwards of 50 miles to be a part of the CBA community and the CBA tradition. As of September 2021, the four largest districts of residence by enrollment were Shenendehowa, South Colonie, North Colonie, and Albany. Students from these four districts make up at least half of the school's total enrollment.

Notable alumni 
 Ronald Canestrari -  New York State Assembly member
 RIchard Jude Ciccolella - television and film actor and singer
 Vincent J. Donehue - theater director
 William Kennedy - author
 Edward A. Maher - mayor of Albany
 Harry Marra - track and field coach
 John McEneny - member of the New York State Assembly (1992-2012) and historian
 Howard C. Nolan, Jr. - member of New York State Senate from 1975 to 1994
 John W. Pauly - U.S. Air Force general; 1978-80: commander-in-chief, United States Air Forces in Europe
 Joseph T. Ryan - archbishop (1966-75) of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Anchorage, then archbishop (1985-91) for the Military Services (Military Ordinate)
 Joe Tessitore - sportscaster
 Joe Vellano - NFL defensive tackle

Campus locations

Accreditation 
The school is accredited by the New York State Board of Regents, the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, and the high school JROTC program is designated as an "Honor Unit With Distinction" by the United States Department of the Army.

References

External links 
 

1859 establishments in New York (state)
Boys' schools in New York (state)
Educational institutions established in 1859
Private high schools in Albany County, New York
Private middle schools in New York (state)
Private schools in Capital District (New York)
Roman Catholic Diocese of Albany
Catholic secondary schools in New York (state)
Lasallian schools in the United States