[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of convicted war criminals

housands were murdered and tortured. Sentenced to 30 years' imprisonment and then to life by the Cambodia Tribunal
Khieu Samphan (born 1931), Khmer Rouge official who served as Chairman of the State Presidium of Democratic Kampuchea, sentenced to life in prison for his role in the Cambodian genocide

Rwandan Civil War
Jean-Paul Akayesu (born 1953), Rwandan politician who served as the mayor of the Taba commune, sentenced to life in prison for aiding and abetting in the Rwandan genocide.
Théoneste Bagosora (1941–2021), Rwandan Armed Forces officer sentenced to life in prison for his role in planning and carrying out the Rwandan genocide, later reduced to 35 years on appeal.
Jean-Bosco Barayagwiza (1950–2010), Rwandan war criminal involved in the Hutu Power
Augustin Bizimungu (born 1952), Chief of Staff of the Rwandan Army, sentenced to 30 years in prison for his role in the Rwandan genocide.
Alphonse Higaniro (born 1949), factory owner, sentenced to 20 years.
Jean Kambanda (born 1955), Rwandan politician who served as Prime Minister in the caretaker government of Rwanda during the Rwandan genocide, sentenced to life in prison for his role in planning and carrying out the genocide.
Maria Kisito (born 1964), sentenced to 12 years in prison for supplying gasoline to a militia to burn refugees with.
Gertrude Mukangango, sentenced to 15 years for handing over Tutsi refugees to the militia during the Rwandan genocide.
Désiré Munyaneza (born 1966), Rwandan businessman, sentenced to life in prison for committing multiple acts of war rape during the Rwandan genocide.
Ferdinand Nahimana (born 1950), Rwandan historian who incited the Rwandan genocide
Elie Ndayamabaje, former Mayor of Muganza, Rwanda during the Rwandan Genocide
Hassan Ngeze (born 1957), Rwandan journalist and politician, sentenced to life in prison for his role in the Rwandan genocide, later reduced to 35 years on appeal.
Ildéphonse Nizeyimana (born 1963), Rwandan soldier, who was convicted of having participated in the Rwandan genocide.
Sylvan Nsabimana, Rwandan war criminal charged with crimes against humanity in the Rwandan genocide
Arsène Shalom Ntahobali, Rwandan war criminal charged with crimes against humanity in the Rwandan genocide
Dominique Ntawukulilyayo, sub-prefect of the Gisaraga prefect convicted of genocide during the Rwandan genocide
Vincent Ntezimana, university professor, sentenced to 12 years.
Alphonse Nteziryayo, prefect of Butare during the Rwandan Genocide
Bernard Ntuyahaga (born 1952), Rwandan Army officer, sentenced to 20 years in prison for his role in the murder of ten Belgian United Nations peacekeepers at the beginning of the Rwandan genocide.
Pauline Nyiramasuhuko (born 1946), Rwandan politician. She was indicted on the charges of conspiracy to commit genocide.
Tharcisse Renzaho (born 1944), Rwandan soldier and head of the Civil Defence Committee for Kigali, sentenced to life in prison for his role in the Rwandan genocide.
Georges Rutaganda (1958–2010), commander for the Interahamwe militia, sentenced to life in prison for his role in the Rwandan genocide.
Innocent Sagahutu (born 1962), soldier in the Rwandan Armed Forces who helped carry out the Rwandan genocide, sentenced to 20 years in prison, which would later be reduced to 15 years via appeal.
Athanase Seromba (born 1963), Rwandan Catholic priest, sentenced to life in prison for aiding and abetting in the Rwandan genocide.

Sierra Leone Civil War
Augustine Gbao (born 1948), paramilitary commander for the Revolutionary United Front, sentenced to 25 years in prison for war crimes committed during the Sierra Leone Civil War.
Brima Bazzy Kamara (born 1968), commander in the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council, sentenced to 45 years in prison for multiple war crimes committed during the Sierra Leone Civil War.
Santigie Borbor Kanu (born 1965), senior commander of the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council, sentenced to 51 years in prison for war crimes committed during the Sierra Leone Civil War.
Issa Sesay (born 1970), senior officer of the Revolutionary United Front, sentenced to 52 years in prison for war crimes committed during the Sierra Leone Civil War.
Charles Taylor (born 1948), 22nd President of Liberia, guilty on 11 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity during both the Sierra Leone Civil War and the Second Liberian Civil War.

Yugoslav Wars
After the Yugoslav Wars, an international Court was formed to try war criminals (ICTY). However, ICTY tried only a selected number of high-ranking people (a total of 161), with local Courts (in Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia) starting trials mostly against individuals or soldiers who carried out orders of those high-ranking officers. Many of those have been convicted.

Croatia raised charges against 3666 people for war crimes, of which 1381 were dropped due to lack of evidence.