[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frank Stagg (Irish republican)

epublicans and 1,600 members of the Irish Defence Forces and the Garda Síochána were deployed by the government to keep order at the funeral. Despite their presence, members of the Provisional IRA attended this first burial, firing volleys of shot over his coffin, in the style of a military funeral.

Following the first burial, a requiem mass was held in Mayo for Stagg by Republicans. Once again a mass deployment of Gardai was ordered, and once again large numbers of Republicans and Provisional IRA members attended. Joe Cahill, who had formerly been a Chief of Staff of the IRA, attended the ceremony and vowed during it that at some point in the future there would be another funeral for Stagg, with his body being laid to rest beside that of Gaughan's.

In order to prevent the body from being disinterred and reburied by republicans, the first grave had been covered with concrete. Local Gardaí kept an armed guard by the grave for six months. However, unknown to them, the plot beside this grave was available for purchase. Frank's brother George purchased the plot and placed a headstone over it, with it declaring that the "pro-British Irish government" had stolen Frank's body. 22 months later in November 1977, a group of republicans dug down into the plot that George had purchased, then dug sideways and recovered Frank's coffin from the adjacent plot under cover of darkness, before reburying it in the republican plot beside the body of Michael Gaughan under a third and final headstone. The Republicans held their own version of a funeral ceremony before disappearing back into the night. This is sometimes referred to as the third and final funeral of Frank Stagg.

Following the final burial, an anonymous letter was sent to the Taoiseach Liam Cosgrave, the Minister for Justice Patrick Cooney, the Minister for Post and Telegraphs Conor Cruise O'Brien and Minister for Foreign Affairs Garret FitzGerald, informing them each that they had been "marked out for assassination" because of their government's involvement with Stagg's burial(s). Stagg's widow Bridie and his brother Emmett were reported to have been intimidated by members of the Provisional IRA due to their opposition to his burial in a Republican plot.

References

1941 births
1976 deaths
Irish emigrants to the United Kingdom
Irish prisoners who died on hunger strike
Irish republicans
Irish republicans imprisoned for criminal damage
People from Hollymount
Irish expatriates in England
Provisional Irish Republican Army members