[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rosa Brooks

r, failed states, and, more recently, criminal  justice and policing. Along with Jane Stromseth and David Wippman, Brooks coauthored Can Might Make Rights? Building the Rule of Law After Military Interventions (2006). Brooks is also the author of numerous scholarly articles published in law reviews.

Brooks authored the 2016 book How Everything Became War and the Military Became Everything. It was a New York Times Notable Book of the Year and was selected by Military Times as one of the ten best books of the year. The book was also shortlisted for the Lionel Gelber Prize and the Arthur Ross Book Award.

In 2021, she published Tangled Up in Blue: Policing the American City, which is about her experience as a reserve police officer in Washington, D.C. Tangled Up in Blue was selected by the Washington Post as one of the best non-fiction books of 2021.

Political Commentary 
In addition to serving as a weekly opinion columnist for the Los Angeles Times and Foreign Policy, Brooks was a founder of Foreign Policy'''s weekly podcast, The E.R., and is now a member of the Deep State Radio podcast team. She has been a frequent guest and panelist on MSNBC, Fox, CNN and NPR. Brooks has contributed numerous op-eds and book reviews to the Washington Post, The New York Times, The Atlantic, The Wall Street Journal and numerous other publications.

 Personal life 
Brooks has two children. Brooks was previously married to the Yale literary critic Peter Brooks, and is now married to LTC Joseph Mouer, a now-retired Army Special Forces officer.

 Works Tangled Up in Blue: Policing the Nation's Capital, Penguin, 2021, How Everything Became War and the Military Became Everything, Simon and Schuster, 2016, 
 Rosa Brooks, Jane Stromseth, David Wippman, Can Might Make Rights? Building the Rule of Law After Military Interventions, Cambridge University Press, 2006, 
 A Garden of Paper Flowers: An American at Oxford'', Picador, 1994,  (under the name Rosa Ehrenreich; later articles are credited to Rosa Ehrenreich Brooks)

References

External links
 
 Profile at Georgetown University Law Center
 

1970 births
Living people
Alumni of Christ Church, Oxford
American foreign policy writers
American legal scholars
American legal writers
American women lawyers
Clinton administration personnel
Harvard College alumni
International law scholars
International relations scholars
Obama administration personnel
Lawyers from New York City
Los Angeles Times people
Marshall Scholars
People from Syosset, New York
Syosset High School alumni
United States Department of Defense officials
American women legal scholars
Women political scientists
Writers from New York City
Yale Law School alumni
Georgetown University Law Center faculty
21st-century American women