[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Definitions of fascism

a form of capitalism. But still, when we apply the term ‘Fascism’ to Germany or Japan or Mussolini's Italy, we know broadly what we mean.

Franklin D. Roosevelt 
American President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who led the US into war with the fascist Axis powers, wrote about fascism:

"Fascist" as insult 

Some have argued that the terms fascism and fascist have become hopelessly vague since the World War II period, and that today it is little more than a pejorative used by supporters of various political views to insult their opponents. The word fascist is sometimes used to denigrate people, institutions, or groups that would not describe themselves as ideologically fascist, and that may not fall within the formal definition of the word. As a political epithet, fascist has been used in an anti-authoritarian sense to emphasize the common ideology of governmental suppression of individual freedom. In this sense, the word fascist is intended to mean oppressive, intolerant, chauvinist, genocidal, dictatorial, racist, or aggressive. George Orwell wrote in 1944:
...the word 'Fascism' is almost entirely meaningless. In conversation, of course, it is used even more wildly than in print. I have heard it applied to farmers, shopkeepers, Social Credit, corporal punishment, fox-hunting, bull-fighting, the 1922 Committee, the 1941 Committee, Kipling, Gandhi, Chiang Kai-Shek, homosexuality, Priestley's broadcasts, Youth Hostels, astrology, women, dogs and I do not know what else ... Except for the relatively small number of Fascist sympathisers, almost any English person would accept 'bully' as a synonym for 'Fascist'. That is about as near to a definition as this much-abused word has come.

See also 
 Fascism and ideology
 Palingenetic ultranationalism

References 
Notes

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Contains chapters on fascist movements in different countries.

External links 
 The Origins of Fascism: Islamic Fascism, Islamophobia, Antisemitism Walter Laqueur, 25 October 2006
 Authorized translation of Mussolini’s "The Political and Social Doctrine of Fascism" (1933)

Fascism

Political terminology
Fascism