[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ira Katznelson

ence of Political Thought, given to the best book in liberal or democratic theory, and the David Easton Award of APSA's Foundations of Political Thought Section. In March 2014, Katznelson was awarded the Bancroft Prize for his book Fear Itself: The New Deal and the Origins of Our Time.

Bibliography

Black Men, White Cities; Race, Politics, And Migration In The United States, 1900–30 and Britain, 1948–68. 1973. Oxford University Press.
City Trenches: Urban Politics And The Patterning Of Class In The United States. 1981. Pantheon Books.
Schooling For All: Class, Race, And The Decline Of The Democratic Ideal. 1985. Basic Books. (written with Margaret Weir).
Working-Class Formation: Nineteenth-Century Patterns In Western Europe And The United States. 1986. Princeton University Press. (edited with Aristide Zolberg).
Marxism And The City. 1992. Oxford University Press.
Paths of Emancipation: Jews, States, And Citizenship. 1995. Princeton University Press. (edited with Pierre Birnbaum).
Liberalism’s Crooked Circle: Letters to Adam Michnik. 1996. Princeton University Press.
Shaped By War And Trade: International Influences On American Political Development. 2002. Princeton University Press. (edited with Martin Shefter).
Political Science: The State Of The Discipline. 2002. W.W. Norton. (edited with Helen Milner).
Desolation And Enlightenment: Political Knowledge After Total War, Totalitarianism, And The Holocaust. 2003. Columbia University Press.
When Affirmative Action Was White: An Untold History Of Racial Inequality In Twentieth-Century America. 2005. W.W. Norton.
Preferences and Situations: Points of Intersection between Historical and Rational Choice Institutionalism. 2005. Russell Sage Foundation. (written with Barry Weingast).
The Politics of Power: A Critical Introduction to American Government, 6th ed. 2006. (written with Mark Kesselman and Alan Draper).  
 
Fear Itself: The New Deal and the Origins of Our Time. 2013. Liverlight.

Critical studies and reviews
 Reviews Fear itself : the New Deal and the origins of our time.

References

External links
 Ira Katznelson, President, American Political Science Association, 2005–06
 Ira Katznelson on the Columbia University website
 

Living people
1944 births
American political scientists
Columbia College (New York) alumni
Columbia University faculty
Social Science Research Council
Alumni of the University of Cambridge
Members of the American Philosophical Society
Bancroft Prize winners
American Jewish anti-racism activists
Jewish American historians
People from Flatbush, Brooklyn