[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Otomat

an government started the development of a new generation anti-ship missile designated Otomat Mk3 with a dispersement of 19 million units. Meanwhile, the French Navy chose to pursue the ANS/ANNG/ANF project for a supersonic missile, thereby ending French involvement in the development of the Otomat.

The Mk3 version was named at one point Ulisse, the Italian name for the mythical hero Odysseus. With development starting twenty years after the Mk1 version, the Mk3 was a quite different weapon. The guidance package was updated with new IR and radar sensors in the nose, a GPS navigation system and an updated data link to allow the engagement of coastal targets. To improve the missile chances of hitting, its nose and wing shapes were optimized for a reduced radar cross section (RCS). Range was improved to 250–300 km while keeping the same dimensions of the previous versions. The warhead was kept at 210 kg but fitted with an armored casing and less sensitive explosives which lowered its chances of being destroyed by close-in weapon systems. Three Otomat missiles were test launched in 1994–1995 with IR guidance and the new data link with good results. At this stage, an air-launched version was also considered for improved versatility. The United States Navy (USN) showed interest in this missile for many years as an intermediate system between the Harpoon and the Tomahawk. However, the USN withdrew from the program in 1999 and it was soon canceled as the Italian Navy was unable to fully fund its development.

The latest version of the Otomat is the Mk2 Block IV, also called Teseo Mk2/A. It has a new data link which allows its flight to be controlled from the ship via the Teseo system in a similar way to Erato. GPS is also fitted allowing programmable flight trajectories with complex paths. The Italian Navy ordered 38 missiles of this version, 27 for operational use and 11 for training purposes with an estimated in-service date of 2008. ROKETSAN, a Turkish missile manufacturer, signed an agreement in 2010 with MBDA to design, develop, and produce the new generation of rocket engines for the Otomat.

MILAS

A separate path led to the development of MILAS, an anti-submarine variant of the Otomat Mk2. It is bigger than Otomat,  long and , and delivers a MU90 torpedo to a range of over . It started in 1986 as a Franco-Italian program for a missile capable of delivering a lightweight anti-submarine torpedo. The first test launch took place in 1989, ten more launches with torpedoes fitted had taken place by 1993. Tests ended in 1999, however, by that time France had lost interest in the system even though it had originally proposed the idea as a replacement for its own Malafon system. Thus, Milas entered service in 2002 with the Italian Navy only, after almost 20 years of development. Milas is an all weather day/night system that can put a torpedo in the water 35 km from its launch platform within three minutes and update its impact point in flight.

Milas missiles are in service on the two s and the 4 anti-submarine FREMM frigates of the Italian Navy.

The only other variant in service is a coastal defense version bought by Egypt and Saudi Arabia, and ordered by Iraq but never delivered to that country. All necessary electronics are trailer-mounted as well as twin missile launchers, which makes it a high mobility system. Even so, Iraq had planned to deploy it in fixed armored sites.

Testing and the future of Otomat
There is no known combat use of Otomat but there were many tests. In 1987, a Venezuelan Lupo-class frigate hit an old US destroyer used as target at 122 km, leaving a 6 m hole in it. Flight took a little over 400 seconds. In another example, at least 8 missiles were purchased by the US Navy: thanks to a new evasive maneuver, the majority of these weapons, called LRAT (Long Range Autonomous Target) penetrated inside the formidable missile defenses of US ships.