[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Information Control Division

The Information Control Division (ICD) was a department of the Office of Military Government, United States (OMGUS) during the early part of the post-war American occupation of Germany following World War II focused on controlling and altering German media to promote democratic values and to move Germany away from Nazism. Formed on 12 May 1945 from the Psychological Warfare Division of SHAEF (PWD/SHAEF), the ICD was led by Robert A. McClure, with a mission defined as:

Its initial task was seizing control of the German media, removing figures with Nazi associations or histories and prohibiting overly nationalist or militarized content. It was charged with licensing the German newspapers, selecting editors who favored creating a democratic society, and pre-approving content before it was published - although from August 1945 the model switched to approval post-publication. Initially entirely independent of the military government of Germany, it was merged into OMGUS in February 1946.

As the Cold War became a priority in United States foreign policy, the ICD focused on using Germany as "the first battlefront of psychological warfare between the U.S. and the USSR", forcing licensed newspapers to publish content compatible with the direction of U.S. foreign policy and revoking the licenses of those that would not. The ICD faced some controversy over this shift in focus, along with its relationship with Hollywood and its handling of its Radio Control branch. The ICD relinquished central control over German mass media to the German people in 1949.

Origin 
Many within the Allied Forces of World War II − France, Soviet Union, United States, Britain, etc.− wanted to prevent any future signs of militaristic and cultural aggression from Germany. Britain and the United States specifically, with the agreement of Soviet and French Military governors, pursued a coordinated post-war peacetime effort that centered around the control of information and media decimation in post-war Germany. Two months after the end of the World War II in Europe, "the Anglo American Psychological Warfare Division and the British Political Warfare Executive were re-designated as Information Control Division in the American sector and the Information Services Division in the British zone of control". The Information Control Division was part of a larger campaign on the part of the United States and Britain to facilitate peaceful post-war time relations and reeducate the German people to rid them of Nazism under the Office of Military Government, United States. The United States wanted to influence the German psyche and address the issue of "hypernationationalism" and Nazism that had developed in Germany leading up to and during World War II  Through the use of propaganda and media control, the Information Control Division was one of the key faucets in which the United States pursued this campaign.

The inclination of a significant portion of Germany's population towards nationalism was first identified before Hitler took his reign during World War II. Saul Padover, political scientist and historian, describes the "German problem" as: "Hostility to democracy (shared power), Reliance on authoritarianism, Respect for force and acceptance of military virtues, Belief in German superiority, cultural or racial". Padover was not alone in criticizing the developments of the "German problem", with many government officials sharing the same concern. British propaganda surrounding the image of the German people made its way into American media and influenced many American outlooks on the German people and ultimately helped solidify the United States' decision to deploy psychological warfare divisions within Germany following World War I. Many of these feelings towards Germany by academic and military personnel contributed to the British and American pursuit of psychological control and influence within American and British occupied sectors in post-war Germany.

Activities 

The main goal of the ICD was to place German media in the American-controlled territory of Germany under the control of the American military and influence its production under the American standard of democratic values. The ICD strived to accomplish this in three phases: the first phase was to shut down "all media of public expression in Germany", the second phase was to seize control of their public media operations, and the third phase sought to return the media of public expression to back German officials who, what American officials believed, displayed anti-Nazi, democratic ideals.