[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Nature and Origins of Mass Opinion

frame current events using already available stereotypes to engage with the public. Information disseminated to the public is an elite discourse and is hardly neutral. While the elite discourse shapes public opinion, it does not dictates it solely.

What are the other factors shaping public opinion?

 Political awareness: Zaller defines it as "the extent to which an individual pays attention to politics and understands what he or she has encountered." People's political awareness is generally low but it varies significantly among individuals. People with different levels of political awareness react to elite discourse differently. Depending on an issue, some are more susceptible to the elite discourse than others. Zaller suggests public opinion researchers could measure one's political awareness using a series of fact-based questions.
 Political predispositions: Zaller defines them as "stable, individual-level traits that regulate the acceptance or non-acceptance of the political communications the person receives". He highlights the need to take political awareness into account in the study of political predispositions. Political awareness is necessary to provide the contextual information one needs to translate their values to an opinion. To capture respondent's predispositions, Zaller suggests asking domain specific value questions is preferable to a question mapping one's political ideology.

What are the problems with surveys that researchers use for measuring public opinion?

 Over time instability mainly comes from the fact people don't have strong opinions about issues surveyed, but still try to choose between given options. In essence, people choose an option at random. Some scholars challenge this argument saying that the instability comes from a measurement error. Respondents find it difficult to map their pre-existing opinions onto vaguely phrased questions. Zaller rejects this thought because he finds attributing big changes in people's attitudes over time to a measurement error is unconvincing.
 Error due to response effects: It means a systematic error introduced when respondents respond to a survey. It is introduced due to the context in which a question is asked. This type of error can be caused by question wording or question order. Different wording or order activates different frames. Respondents then react to the frames activated rather than the substantive content of a question.

What do these two survey problems suggest?

These problems are indicators that respondents don't necessarily bring their pre-existing opinions to the table because for many they don't even have one in the first place. The response they offer is a "temporary construction" of their opinions, which Zaller calls them "opinion statements". These statements are constructed based on frames which are made most available to them at the time. This view also explains over time instability. The instability is due to changes in the most salient frames among the elite discourse. Therefore, the model Zaller proposes argues that people respond to a question by averaging a non-random sample of frames.   

Ch3. How citizens acquire information and convert it into public opinion

Zaller starts with defining "considerations" and "political messages".

"Considerations" are reasons for one to be for or against an issue. It takes into account of cognition and affect.

There are two types of "political messages".

 Persuasive messages: They are arguments for a certain point of view. When a message is adopted, it becomes a consideration.
 Cueing messages: They carry "contextual information" to activate one's predispositions to adopt or reject a message.

Zaller introduces four axioms that form the foundation of the RAS model.