[Source: PubMed]

9. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Mar 3;18(5):2481. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph18052481.

Positive Externalities of Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation for Human 
Health: A Review and Conceptual Framework for Public Health Research.

Bikomeye JC(1), Rublee CS(2), Beyer KMM(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)PhD Program in Public and Community Health, Institute for Health and Equity, 
Medical College of Wisconsin, 8701 Watertown Plank Rd., Milwaukee, WI 53226, 
USA.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, 8701 
Watertown Plank Rd., Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA.
(3)Division of Epidemiology, Institute for Health and Equity, Medical College of 
Wisconsin, 8701 Watertown Plank Rd., Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA.

Anthropogenic climate change is adversely impacting people and contributing to 
suffering and increased costs from climate-related diseases and injuries. In 
responding to this urgent and growing public health crisis, mitigation 
strategies are in place to reduce future greenhouse gas emissions (GHGE) while 
adaptation strategies exist to reduce and/or alleviate the adverse effects of 
climate change by increasing systems' resilience to future impacts. While these 
strategies have numerous positive benefits on climate change itself, they also 
often have other positive externalities or health co-benefits. This knowledge 
can be harnessed to promote and improve global public health, particularly for 
the most vulnerable populations. Previous conceptual models in mitigation and 
adaptation studies such as the shared socioeconomic pathways (SSPs) considered 
health in the thinking, but health outcomes were not their primary intention. 
Additionally, existing guidance documents such as the World Health Organization 
(WHO) Guidance for Climate Resilient and Environmentally Sustainable Health Care 
Facilities is designed primarily for public health professionals or healthcare 
managers in hospital settings with a primary focus on resilience. However, a 
detailed cross sectoral and multidisciplinary conceptual framework, which links 
mitigation and adaptation strategies with health outcomes as a primary end 
point, has not yet been developed to guide research in this area. In this paper, 
we briefly summarize the burden of climate change on global public health, 
describe important mitigation and adaptation strategies, and present key health 
benefits by giving context specific examples from high, middle, and low-income 
settings. We then provide a conceptual framework to inform future global public 
health research and preparedness across sectors and disciplines and outline key 
stakeholders recommendations in promoting climate resilient systems and 
advancing health equity.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph18052481
PMCID: PMC7967605
PMID: 33802347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.