[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carpoolers

Carpool” which consists of 4 old Men 
Multiple appearances in episode 1 and episode 4 most notably for beating up the gang with a taser and golf clubs for yelling at them in the parking lot.

“Rust bucket Carpool” which consists of 4 men dressed in a “hillbilly” stereotype 
Appearances in episode 4

Possible female Carpool 
Multiple appearances in episode 4, The gang walk past a group of 4 attractive females walking past the gang.

Music 
The show was known for the notable musical choices the show would use for both the intro and outro of the show which the gang would often sing along to.

 All Out of Love & More Than a Feeling  (Episode 1)
 Come On Eileen (Episode 2)
 Thunderstruck & Private Eyes (Episode 4)
 Lady 1973 & Love Grows (Episode 5)
 In the Air Tonight (Episode 7)
 Little Miss Can't Be Wrong (Episode 8)
 Back in Black (Episode 10)

Cast and characters

 Fred Goss – Gracen Brooker: A mediator with a wife and son. He and Laird Holcomb are friends as well as neighbors.
 Faith Ford – Leila Brooker: Gracen's sensible wife and successful real estate "flipper".
 Jerry Minor – Aubrey Williber: An accountant who looks after his rambunctious seven kids in addition to working while his lazy wife, who is never seen, but only depicted as a pair of feet, sits in her recliner. His signature catch phrase is "Gentlemen ... let's carpool", usually uttered immediately prior to beginning their journey to work.
 Tim Peper – Dougie: As the new carpooler, he tries to gain acceptance into the group of men while frequently committing major carpooling faux pas. He is a newlywed who likes to tell the others about the joy of marriage and love.
 Allison Munn – Cindy: Dougie's young, dewy wife; they have a saccharine sweet relationship. When she sends Dougie off to work with his lunch she tells him that she "is in every bite".
 T. J. Miller – Marmaduke Brooker: The emotionally stunted, hyper-articulate, hulking adult son of the Brookers who usually spends his entire day at home in his briefs (and towers over his parents by over a foot).
 Jerry O'Connell – Laird Holcomb: A recently divorced dentist whose ex-wife has taken almost everything he owned (except his absercisor and otherwise empty house); he sleeps with as many women as he can.

Episodes

Nielsen Ratings

Weekly ratings

Seasonal ratings 
Seasonal ratings based on average total viewers per episode of Carpoolers on ABC:

+ Information is current as of March 7, 2008.

Reception

Carpooler even after it was cancelled had some mixed Online reviews and opinions. 

 IGN

Posted an Advanced Review of the pilot episode calling the a overall disappointing and generic with such quotes as  
“Overall though, Carpoolers is a comedy that's lacking in many laughs.”

“Watching the show you feel a bit bad for the cast”

 IMBb

With 1723 Reviews has rated the show 7.5/10 with 28.4% of Ratings being 10/10.

IMDb Reviews also describe the show as “Seinfeld on Wheels” and give it positive review

 Rotten Tomatoes

Rotten Tomatoes rated the show a 23% a low overall rating

 TvGuide

Metascore of 37%

References

External links

2000s American single-camera sitcoms
2007 American television series debuts
2008 American television series endings
American Broadcasting Company original programming
English-language television shows
Television series by 3 Arts Entertainment
Television series by ABC Studios
Television series by DreamWorks Television
Television shows set in Los Angeles