[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 57]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

rlow, "and a generous mind would at any time rather spare an enemy
than destroy him."

While they were conversing in this manner, they beheld a crowd of women
and children running away in the greatest trepidation, and, looking
behind them, saw that one of the bears had broken his chain, and was
running after them, growling all the time in a very disagreeable manner.
Mr Barlow, who had a good stick in his hand, and was a man of an
intrepid character, perceiving this, bade his pupils remain quiet, and
instantly ran up to the bear, who stopped in the middle of his career,
and seemed inclined to attack Mr Barlow for his interference; but this
gentleman struck him two or three blows, rating him at the same time in
a loud and severe tone of voice, and seizing the end of the chain with
equal boldness and dexterity, the animal quietly submitted, and suffered
himself to be taken prisoner. Presently the keeper of the bear came up,
into whose hands Mr Barlow consigned him, charging him for the future to
be more careful in guarding so dangerous a creature.

While this was doing, the boys had remained quiet spectators at a
distance, but by accident the monkey, who used to be perched upon the
head of the bear, and was shaken off when the beast broke loose, came
running that way, playing a thousand antic grimaces as he passed. Tommy,
who was determined not to be outdone by Mr Barlow, ran very resolutely
up, and seized a string which was tied round the loins of the animal;
but he, not choosing to be taken prisoner, instantly snapped at Tommy's
arm, and almost made his teeth meet in the fleshy part of it. Yet Tommy,
who was now greatly improved in courage and the use of his limbs,
instead of letting his enemy escape, began thrashing him very severely
with the stick which he had in his hand, till the monkey, seeing he had
so resolute an antagonist to deal with, desisted from opposition, and
suffered himself to be led captive like his friend the bear.

As they were returning home, Tommy asked Mr Barlow whether he did not
think it very dangerous to meddle with such an animal when he was loose.
Mr Barlow told him it was not without danger, but that it was much less
so than most people would imagine. "Most animals," said he, "are easily
awed by the appearance of intrepidity, while they are invited to pursue
by marks of fear and apprehension." "That, I believe, is very true,"
answered Harry; "for I have very often observed the behaviour of dogs to
each other. When two strange dogs meet they generally approach with
caution, as if they were mutually afraid; but as sure as either of them
runs away, the other will pursue him with the greatest insolence and
fury." "This is not confined to dogs," replied Mr Barlow; "almost all
wild beasts are subject to receive the sudden impression of terror; and
therefore men, who have been obliged to travel without arms, through
forests that abound with dangerous animals, have frequently escaped
unhurt, by shouting aloud whenever they met with any of them on their
way; but what I chiefly depended on was, the education which the bear
had received since he left his own country." (Tommy laughed heartily at
this idea, and Mr Barlow went on.) "Whenever an animal is taught
anything that is not natural to him, this is properly receiving an
education. Did you ever observe colts running about wild upon the
common?" _Tommy._--yes, sir, very often. _Mr Barlow._--And do you think
it would be an easy matter for any one to mount upon their backs or ride
them? _T._--By no means; I think that they would kick and prance to
that degree that they would throw any person down. _Mr B._--And yet your
little horse very frequently takes you upon his back, and carries you
very safely between this and your father's house. _T._--That is because
he is used to it. _Mr B._--But he was not always used to it; he was once
a colt, and then he ran about as wild and unrestrained as any of those
upon the common. _T._--Yes, sir. _Mr B._--How came he then to be so
altered as to submit to bear you upon his back? _T._--I do not know,
unless it was by feeding him. _Mr B._--That is one method; but that is
not all; they first accustom the colt, who naturally follows his mother,
to come into the stable with her; then they stroke him and feed him till
he gradually becomes gentle, and will suffer himself to be handled; then
they take an opportunity of putting a halter upon his head, and accustom
him to stand quietly in the stable, and to be tied to the manger. Thus
they gradually proceed from one thing to another, till they teach him to
bear the bridle and the saddle, and to be commanded by his rider. This
may very properly be called the _education_ of an animal, since by these
means he is obliged to acquire habits which he would never have learned
had he been left to himself. Now, I knew that the poor bear had been
frequently beaten and very ill-used, in order to make him s