[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brian A. Joyce

bated ongoing concerns over the legal ethics of the Boston U.S. Attorney's Office.

Joyce pleaded not guilty in December 2017 to charges including racketeering, money laundering, mail fraud, conspiracy and scheming to defraud the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Joyce was released on a $250,000 bond.

The 102-page indictment accuses Joyce of turning his law office into a criminal enterprise, going so far as to accept hundreds of pounds of free coffee from a local Dunkin' Donuts owner.

In January 2018, Joyce's former accountant, John Nardozzi, was indicted on federal charges that he helped prepare and file false tax returns for Joyce, misclassifying over $2 million of personal expenses as business expenses, in order to reduce Joyce's tax burden. In October 2019, Nardozzi was convicted by a jury of helping Joyce cheat the IRS out of approximately $600,000 in tax payments, and in January 2020, Nardozzi was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison.

On October 8, 2018, US Attorney Andrew Lelling announced that he had dismissed all criminal charges against Joyce, in light of his untimely death.

Death
In the early morning hours of September 26, 2018, Joyce was involved in a single car crash when he reportedly swerved to avoid hitting a deer, crashing through a telephone pole, and finally stopping after hitting a fence.

On September 27, 2018, Joyce was found dead in his home in Westport, with no foul play suspected.

On December 4, 2018, Massachusetts state medical examiner's office reported Joyce's death was caused by an overdose of pentobarbital and ruled the manner of death was "acute pentobarbital intoxication" and remains undetermined, pending a “thorough death investigation.”

Personal life
Joyce was a lifelong resident of Milton, Massachusetts, where he lived with his wife, Mary. They had five children.

References

External links
 Senator Brian A. Joyce biography on Mass.gov

Democratic Party Massachusetts state senators
1962 births
2018 deaths
Carroll School of Management alumni
Suffolk University Law School alumni
21st-century American politicians
Politicians from Milton, Massachusetts
People from Winchester, Massachusetts
Massachusetts lawyers
Drug-related deaths in Massachusetts
20th-century American lawyers