[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1994 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1994 in the United Kingdom.

Incumbents
Monarch – Elizabeth II 
Prime Minister – John Major (Conservative)
Parliament – 51st

Events

January
 4 January – Following the expulsion of the British ambassador from Sudan, the Foreign Office orders the Sudanese ambassador to leave Britain.
 8 January – Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean win the British ice-dancing championship at the Sheffield Arena.
 10 January – Two government ministers resign: Lord Caithness following the suicide of his wife, and Tim Yeo following the revelation that he fathered a child with Conservative councillor Julia Stent.
 14 January – The Duchess of Kent joins the Roman Catholic Church, the first member of the Royal Family to convert to Catholicism for more than 300 years.
 18 January – The Prince of Wales (now Charles III) retires from competitive polo at the age of 45.
 20 January
 Despite the continuing economic recovery and falling unemployment, the Conservative government is now 20 points behind Labour (who score at 48%) in the latest MORI poll.
 Sir Matt Busby, the legendary former Manchester United manager, dies aged 84.
 25 January – Jimmy Boyce, the newly elected Labour MP for Rotherham in South Yorkshire, dies suddenly of a heart attack aged 47.
 31 January – British Aerospace sells its 80% stake in Rover to BMW, leaving Britain without an independent volume carmaker. It is envisaged that the new Rover Group will produce more than 1 million cars per year worldwide and will be Europe's seventh largest carmaker.

February
 1 February 
 John Smith (Labour Party leader) strongly criticises the sale of the Rover Group, saying that it only satisfied British Aerospace's short-term need for cash. In contrast, Prime Minister John Major backs the takeover as giving the Rover Group excellent prospects for export markets and investment. 
 Jo Richardson, the Labour MP for Barking in London, dies in office aged 70.
 4 February – British Coal confirms the closure of four more pits, a move which will claim some 3,000 jobs.
 7 February – Stephen Milligan, Conservative MP for Eastleigh in Hampshire, is found dead aged 45 at his home in Chiswick, West London. On 11 February it is announced that forensic tests have revealed that he died of asphyxiation and that his death was probably the result of an auto-erotic sex practice.
 10 February – Three men are jailed in connection with the IRA bombings of Warrington gasworks 11 months previous. Pairic MacFhloinn is jailed for 35 years, Denis Kinsella for 25 years and John Kinsella for 20 years.
 12–27 February – Great Britain and Northern Ireland compete at the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway, and win 2 bronze medals.
 21 February – Honda sells its 20% stake of the Rover Group, allowing BMW to take full control. This marks the end of the 13-year venture between the two carmakers, although the Honda-based Rover 400 will still go into production next year, becoming the seventh and final product of the venture.
 24 February – Police in Gloucester begin excavations at 25 Cromwell Street, the home of 52-year-old builder Fred West, investigating the disappearance of his daughter Heather, who was last seen alive in the summer of 1987 when she was 16 years old.
 28 February 
 Fred West is charged with the murder of his daughter Heather and of the murder of Shirley Robinson, an 18-year-old woman who was last seen alive in 1978.
 Ron Leighton, the Labour MP for Newham North East in London, dies in office aged 64.

March
 8, 10 and 13 March – The IRA launch three successive mortar attacks on Heathrow Airport.
 8 March – Police in Gloucester confirm that they have now found the bodies of eight people buried at 25 Cromwell Street.
 12 March – The first women are ordained as priests in the Church of England, at Bristol Cathedral, the very first being Angela Berners-Wilson.
 19 March – Europe's first inverted roller coaster, Nemesis, opens at Alton Towers.