[Source: PubMed]

9. Child Abuse Negl. 2010 Sep;34(9):623-38. doi: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2009.12.007.

Psychosocial outcomes related to subjective threat from armed conflict events 
(STACE): Findings from the Israeli-Palestinian cross-cultural HBSC study.

Harel-Fisch Y(1), Radwan Q, Walsh SD, Laufer A, Amitai G, Fogel-Grinvald H, 
Abdeen Z.

Author information:
(1)The International Research Program on Adolescent Well-Being and Health, 
School of Education, Bar Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the relationship between exposure to armed 
conflict and terror events, and an array of mental and behavioral outcomes 
within a large cross-cultural scientifically representative sample of 24,935 
Palestinian (7,430 West Bank and 7,217 Gaza) and Israeli (5,255 Jewish and 6,033 
Arab) 11-, 13-, and 15-year-old school children. The children of the Middle East 
have been subjected to exposure from armed conflict and terrorism repeatedly 
with no adequate research or interventions aimed at shielding them from the 
hazards of such exposure to their mental and social well-being.
METHOD: This paper studies the relationship between a newly developed scale 
(STACE) measuring levels of subjective perceptions of threat/fear due to 
exposure to armed conflict events and its predicting association with six 
psychosocial and behavioral outcomes covering (1) poor mental health, (2) 
positive well-being, and (3) risk behaviors. It also examines the role of 
parental support in "buffering" the effects of exposure to armed conflict events 
within the four target populations.
RESULTS: Results showed that STACE has significant and strong effects on all six 
dependent variables representing (1) mental post trauma, (2) diminished 
well-being, and (3) elevated risk behaviors. STACE strongly affects all four 
populations with the greatest impact among the Jewish Israeli population and the 
least impact shown for the Arab Israeli youth. Parental support ("significant 
adult") has both a direct main effect on the outcomes of all six variables as 
well as a significant "buffering" effect on the impact of STACE on certain 
outcome variables (posttraumatic symptoms, life satisfaction, positive life 
perceptions, and tobacco use).
CONCLUSIONS AND PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Regardless of the type of armed conflict 
events, the perception of threat and fear that a child experiences has a 
universal significant negative impact on mental, social, and behavioral 
well-being. The importance of the existence of a supporting significant adult in 
exposed children's lives is also emphasized. The findings show major 
implications for the development of community-based interventions focusing on 
enhancing parental, and other adult support in the lives of children living in 
armed conflict regions of the world.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2009.12.007
PMID: 20663554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]