[Source: PubMed]

80. Health Econ Rev. 2023 Mar 14;13(1):16. doi: 10.1186/s13561-023-00428-9.

The level of countries' preparedness to health risks during Covid-19 and 
pre-pandemic: the differential response to health systems building blocks and 
socioeconomic indicators.

Da'ar OB(1)(2)(3), Kalmey F(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Systems Management, College of Public Health and Health 
Informatics, King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia. obdaar@gmail.com.
(2)King Abdullah International Medical Research Center, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. 
obdaar@gmail.com.
(3)Institute for Cost Analysis and Research Evaluation, Minneapolis, MN, USA. 
obdaar@gmail.com.
(4)Institute for Cost Analysis and Research Evaluation, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(5)College of Science and Health Professions, King Saud bin Abdulaziz University 
for Health Sciences, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Organizational Health and Wellbeing at the Division of Health Research, 
Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK.

The global health security (GHS) Index assesses countries' level of preparedness 
to health risks. However, there is no evidence on how and whether the effects of 
health systems building blocks and socioeconomic indicators on the level of 
preparedness differ for low and high prepared countries. The aim of this study 
was to examine the contributions of health systems building blocks and 
socioeconomic indicators to show differences in the level of preparedness to 
health risks. The study also aimed to examine trends in the level of 
preparedness and the World Health Organization (WHO) regional differences before 
and during the Covid-19 pandemic. We used the 2021 GHS index report data and 
employed quantile regression, log-linear, double-logarithmic, and time-fixed 
effects models. As robustness checks, these functional form specifications 
corroborated with one another, and interval validity tests confirmed. The 
results show that increases in effective governance, supply chain capacity in 
terms of medicines and technologies, and health financing had positive effects 
on countries' level of preparedness to health risks. These effects were 
considerably larger for countries with higher levels of preparedness to health 
risks. The positive gradient trends signaled a sense of capacity on the part of 
countries with higher global health security. However, the health workforce 
including doctors, and health services including hospital beds, were not 
statistically significant in explaining variations in countries' level of 
preparedness. While economic factors had positive effects on the level of 
preparedness to health risks, their impacts across the distribution of 
countries' level of preparedness to health risks were mixed. The effects of 
Social Development Goals (SDGs) were greater for countries with higher levels of 
preparedness to health risks. The effect of the Human Development Index (HDI) 
was greatest for countries whose overall GHS index lies at the midpoint of the 
distribution of countries' level of preparedness. High-income levels were 
associated with a negative effect on the level of preparedness, especially if 
countries were in the lower quantiles across the distributions of preparedness. 
Relative to poor countries, middle- and high-income groups had lower levels of 
preparedness to health risks, an indication of a sense of complacency. We find 
the pandemic period (year 2021) was associated with a decrease in the level of 
preparedness to health risks in comparison to the pre-pandemic period. There 
were significant WHO regional differences. Apart from the Eastern Mediterranean, 
the rest of the regions were more prepared to health risks compared to Africa. 
There was a negative trend in the level of preparedness to health risks from 
2019 to 2021 although regional differences in changes over time were not 
statistically significant. In conclusion, attempts to strengthen countries' 
level of preparedness to health shocks should be more focused on enhancing 
essentials such as supply chain capacity in terms of medicines and technologies; 
health financing, and communication infrastructure. Countries should also 
strengthen their already existing health workforce and health services. 
Together, strengthening these health systems essentials will be beneficial to 
less prepared countries where their impact we find to be weaker. Similarly, 
boosting SDGs, particularly health-related sub-scales, will be helpful to less 
prepared countries. Moreover, there is a need to curb complacency in 
preparedness to health risks during pandemics by high-income countries. The 
negative trend in the level of preparedness to health risks would suggest that 
there is a need for better preparedness during pandemics by conflating national 
health with global health risks. This will ensure the imperative of having a 
synergistic response to global health risks, which is understood by and 
communicated to all countries and regions.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13561-023-00428-9
PMCID: PMC10012285
PMID: 36917372

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.