[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 128th New York Infantry Regiment

e infamous Libby Prison. For the most part, higher-ranking officers remained here and were shortly paroled while the men of the ranks were taken further south to Salisbury Prison in North Carolina. Here they remained for close to five months until February 22, 1865, at which time they were released.

Mail-in ballot fraud scheme
In the fall of 1864, Orville Wood, a merchant from Clinton County and supporter of Abraham Lincoln in the 1864 presidential election, was tasked to visit hometown troops and "look after the local ticket."  After seeing evidence of mail-in ballot fraud in another regiment and a hospital, Wood gained the trust of Moses Ferry, representative of Democratic Governor Horatio Seymour in Baltimore, and set out to expose the fraud. The scheme extended beyond Washington, D.C., and Baltimore, back to New York—in one example, a General J.A. Ferrell wrote to political operative Edward Donahue Jr.: "Inclosed in this package you will find tickets, also a list of names of the actual residents of Columbia County, now members of the 128th Regiment. With my best wishes for your success." Wood reported multiple such operations he discovered to authorities, and less than two weeks before the election on October 27, 1864, Ferry and Donahue were tried before a military commission. Ferry confessed and offered up names of other conspirators, while Donahue continued to trial and was convicted, partly on Wood's testimony. Both were sentenced to life in prison, with Lincoln's approval.

Legacy
The 128th has a monument on the battlefield at Cedar Creek in Middletown, Virginia, in the location of their camp preceding the Battle of Cedar Creek. Additionally there is a monument to the regiment in Poughkeepsie, New York, on Reservoir Square at S. Clinton St. and Cannon St.

See also

List of New York Civil War regiments

External links 
128th New York Monument at Cedar Creek

References

128th NYSVI website includes brief history, roster and images
 Hanaburgh, David H. (1894). History of the One Hundred Twenty-Eighth Regiment New York Volunteers in the Late Civil War, Enterprise Publishing Company, Poughkeepsie N.Y.

Infantry 128
Dutchess County, New York
History of Columbia County, New York
1862 establishments in New York (state)
Military units and formations established in 1862
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865