[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Liddell Power Station

Liddell Power Station is a decommissioned coal-fired thermal power station that had four  EE steam-driven turbine alternators, providing a combined electrical capacity of .

Its operating capacity was assessed at  in April 2018. Commissioned between 1971 and 1973, the station is located adjacent to Lake Liddell, near Muswellbrook in the Hunter Valley of Australia.

Unit 3 was taken out of service on 1 April 2022. Subsequently, Unit 4 was decommissioned on 24 April 2023, followed by Unit 2 on 26 April 2023. The last unit, Unit 1, was removed from service on 28 April 2023.

History
In September 1964, the Government of New South Wales announced its intention to construct the Liddell Power Station adjacent to Lake Liddell. The first of four generators was completed in 1971, two more in 1972, and the fourth in 1973. At the time of completion, Liddell was the most powerful generating station in Australia. It was also the first major power station in New South Wales to be built inland, using fresh water for cooling instead of the more abundant saltwater used in coastal power stations. To accommodate this change, Lake Liddell was expanded to provide more water, requiring an 11-kilometer section of the Main Northern railway line to be rebuilt on a new alignment. The completion of Liddell aided in the retirement of power stations in Sydney, such as Balmain and Bunnerong.

Originally, the plant was fitted with the then-standard electrostatic precipitators for dust collection, and the more efficient fabric filters (similar to those used at Eraring, Munmorah units 3 and 4, Vales Point 5+6, Bayswater, and Mount Piper) were retrofitted in the early 1990s, reducing particulate emissions to a barely visible level. Much of the coal was supplied by overland conveyors from mines it shared with the nearby Bayswater Power Station.

In 2007, a project commenced at Liddell to replace some of the station's boiler feed-water with hot water from a solar thermal array. By March 2007, the project had reached a second-stage prototype but had not been connected to the power station. Subsequently, the 9 MW solar section was added to the Liddell coal-fired generator, but it has now effectively been closed. Analysts say that the incentive to use the solar boost was reduced by the removal of the carbon price and excess coal supply.

Liddell Power Station was owned by the Electricity Commission of New South Wales, with ownership transferred to Macquarie Generation in 1996. In September 2014, Liddell was included in the sale of Macquarie Generation by the New South Wales government to AGL Energy.

Alternative fuel sources
In addition to the coal-fired steam turbines, Liddell Power Station also operates two GEC 25 MW oil-fired gas turbines and a 0.85 MW mini-hydroelectric generator. The power station is also "licensed to co-fire plant biomass and coal to produce electricity," allowing it to utilize sawdust and wood shavings from the nearby timber industry as a portion of its fuel, replacing up to 5% of its coal requirements. However, in practice, biomass accounts for only about 0.5% of Liddell's total output.

Greenhouse emissions
According to estimates from Carbon Monitoring for Action, Liddell Power Station emits approximately 14.70 million tonnes of greenhouse gases annually due to burning coal. In 2010, the Australian Government introduced a Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme to combat climate change. This scheme has had an impact on emissions from power stations. The National Pollutant Inventory provides details of various pollutant emissions, including carbon monoxide, which was estimated to be  for the year ending 30 June 2011. A Freedom of Information request in 2018 revealed that Liddell is permitted to emit three times more nitrogen oxide than the amount allowed under best practice guidelines.