[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Recognition of same-sex unions in Israel

Same-sex marriage is not legal in Israel.  The Israeli government has registered same-sex marriages performed abroad since 2006. However, prior to July 2022 marriages performed in Israel were only available from one of the 15 religious marriage courts recognized by the state, none of which permit same-sex marriage under their respective auspices. Prior to the Central District Court rulling from July 2022 Israelis who desired to have their same-sex marriage recognized by the government must had first married outside Israel, in a jurisdiction where such marriages are performed, and then register upon returning home.

In July 2022, the Central District Court ruled that marriages performed under an online civil marriage service established by the U.S. state of Utah are legal in Israel, thereby no longer requiring couples previously unable to marry in Israel to leave the country. A June 2019 opinion poll conducted by Hiddush showed that 78% of Israelis supported recognizing same-sex unions.

Legal history

Background

The religious authority for Jewish marriages is the Chief Rabbinate of Israel, and there are parallel authorities for Christians, Muslims, and Druze, with a total of 15 religious courts. These regulate all marriages and divorces for their own communities. Currently, they all oppose same-sex marriages. If the views of one of these bodies were to change, however, it would be legal for members of that religious community to enter into same-sex marriages in Israel. Same-sex wedding ceremonies without legal significance can be conducted in Israel, which, coupled with legally recognized foreign marriages, allows for both same-sex wedding ceremonies in Israel and legal recognition of same-sex marriages in Israel, on condition that the marriage license comes from another country. The first unofficial municipal wedding took place in August 2009, following the Tel Aviv Pride Parade; five couples were married by Mayor Ron Huldai. The traditional verse for wedding ceremonies from Psalm 137, "If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand wither...", was used, but replacing Jerusalem with Tel Aviv, Israel's most gay-friendly city. On 4 June 2019, protesting the inability of same-sex couples to marry in Israel, 23 couples held an unofficial mass wedding ceremony in Tel Aviv.

In Israel unmarried same-sex and opposite-sex couples have equal access to virtually all of the rights of married couples in the form of an "unregistered cohabitation" status, similar to common-law marriage The Israeli government does not perform civil marriage but does recognize civil marriage performed abroad. As a result,same-sex couples who desire to have their marriage recognized by the government must obtain a marriage license outside Israel, in a jurisdiction where such marriages are performed, and then register the marriage in Israel.

Foreign marriages

Same-sex marriages performed abroad in a jurisdiction where such marriages are legal can be recorded with the Administration of Border Crossings, Population and Immigration, according to a November 2006 High Court of Justice ruling which defined such records as strictly "for statistical purposes", thereby avoiding official recognition of same-sex marriages by the state. The case was filed by five male Israeli couples married in Canada who sought recognition of their marriage back home in Israel. The court ruled 6–1 that the government must register same-sex marriages performed abroad. One of the plaintiffs said, "I am glad we won and got what we wanted to achieve in this petition, which was the basic right to be registered as married by the Israeli Ministry of Interior, just as any couple marrying abroad does and takes it for granted." Lawyers for the couples cited a Supreme Court case from 1962 that the government must register civil marriages performed abroad. LGBT advocates welcomed the court decision. It was strongly condemned by Orthodox Jewish politicians, however, including by United Torah Judaism MK Moshe Gafni, who called the ruling "the destruction of the family unit in the state of Israel".

In December 2012, a family court in Ramat Gan granted a married same-sex couple a legal divorce. This was the first decision of its kind, setting a non-binding precedent.

In December 2016, Attorney General Avichai Mandelblit instructed the Interior Ministry to consider applications for citizenship by same-sex and opposite-sex couples equally under the same terms. The same-sex spouse of an Israeli citizen will now be able to claim Israeli citizenship after the same interval as an opposite-sex spouse. Previously, same-sex couples had to wait up to seven years, and would generally only be granted permanent residency rather than citizenship. The process was far easier for opposite-sex couples. The decision came in response to a lawsuit filed with the High Court of Justice by the Israeli Gay Fathers Association.