[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Abdul Kabir

Mohammed Abdul Kabir () is a senior member of the Taliban leadership who has served as the acting third deputy prime minister for political affairs of Afghanistan since 4 October 2021. He previously was the acting prime minister of Afghanistan from 16 April 2001 to 13 November 2001.

The United Nations reports that he was Second Deputy of the Taliban's Council of Ministers; Governor of Nangarhar Province; and Head of the Eastern Zone.
The U.N. reports that Kabir was born between 1958 and 1963, in Paktia, Afghanistan, and is from the Zadran tribe.
The U.N. reports that Kabir is active in terrorist operations in Eastern Afghanistan.

Career
In April 2002, Abdul Razzak
told the Associated Press that Kabir was believed to have fled Nangarhar to Paktia, along with Ahmed Khadr.

The Chinese News Agency Xinhua reported that Abdul Kabir was captured in Nowshera, Pakistan, on 16 July 2005.
Captured with Abdul Kabir were his brother Abdul Aziz, Mullah Abdul Qadeer, Mullah Abdul Haq, and a fifth unnamed member of the Taliban leadership.

On 19 July 2006, United States Congressman Roscoe G. Bartlett listed Abdul Kabir as a former suspected terrorist who the US government no longer considers a threat.

In spite of these reports, intelligence officials quoted in Asia Times indicated Kabir and other senior Taliban leaders may have been in  North Waziristan, Pakistan, during Ramadan 2007, planning an offensive in southeastern Afghanistan.

Xinhua reported on 21 October 2007, quoting from an account from Daily Afghanistan, that Abdul Kabir had been appointed commander in Nangarhar, Laghman, Kunar and Nooristan provinces.

A report on 21 February 2010, stated that Kabir was captured in Pakistan as a result of intelligence gleaned from Mullah Baradar, himself taken into custody earlier in the month. Kabir was later released.

Notes

References 

1958 births
Afghan expatriates in Pakistan
Living people
Pashtun people
People from Nangarhar Province
Prime Ministers of Afghanistan
Taliban government ministers of Afghanistan
Taliban governors