[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Campaign in the Eastern Foothills of the Funiu Mountains

he 11th Brigade of the communist 4th Column penetrated into regions of Wuyang (舞阳), Square City (Fang Cheng, 方城), and Miyang (泌阳), forcing the nationalist Reorganized 10th Division and the 124th Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 41st Division to be redeployed to east of Beijing-Hankou railroad.

In order to take the initiative by luring the nationalists to overstretch themselves, the newly taken towns of Square City (Fang Cheng, 方城) and Nanzhao (南召) were intentionally abandoned by the communists, and the nationalists subsequently fell for the trick by ordering Song Kezun (宋可尊), the nationalist chief-of-staff of the sixth regional security command of Henan to reenter the Nanzhao (南召) as the new mayor of the town and the commander the local garrison.  The former nationalist garrison of the Square City (Fang Cheng, 方城), meanwhile, was ordered back to the town under Wang Jingxiu (王敬修), the commander.  On November 11, 1947, the communist 10th Brigade of the 4th Column in the eastern foothills of the Funiu Mountains launched a surprise attack on Square City (Fang Cheng, 方城), and the nationalist defenders abandoned the town and fled, and the town fell into the enemy hands for the second time.  On November 13, 1947, the fleeing nationalists were caught up by the 31st Regiment of the 11th Brigade of the communist 4th Column at Erlang Temple, and were thus badly mauled by the pursuing enemy.  The nationalist commander Wang Jingxiu (王敬修) learned that the nationalist 20th Division was moving toward Square City (Fang Cheng, 方城), so he ordered his surviving troops to move toward the town in an attempt to link up with his nationalist comrades-in-arms.  Little did the nationalists know that their enemy was waiting to ambush them.

On November 21, 1947, the communist 10th Brigade of the 4th Column suddenly struck the town of Nanzhao (南召), and the nationalist garrison consisted on a security regiment and two companies was overwhelmed.  After losing three companies, including more than 50 killed and over 270 captured alive by the attacking enemy, the surviving nationalists were forced to abandon the town and flee, and thus town of Nanzhao (南召) had fallen into the enemy hands for the second time, and this time for good.  On November 22, 1947, as the nationalist commander Wang Jingxiu (王敬修)'s surviving Self Defense of the Square City (Fang Cheng, 方城) reached Eight Mile Intersection (Ba Li Cha, 八里岔), King Yu's Village (Wang Yu Zhuang, 王禹庄), and Eastern Qi Village (Dong Qi Zhuang, 东齐庄) regions south of Square City (Fang Cheng, 方城), it was ambushed by the communist 31st Regiment of the 11th Brigade of the 4th Column.  Only 100 or so under the command of the commander of the nationalist force Bai Guixuan (白桂煊) was lucky enough to escape, while all of the rest were annihilated by the waiting enemy.  The nationalists suffered 740 fatalities and another 400+ were captured alive by the enemy, including the deputy commander Ma Lianfu (马廉府), who was able to successfully escape later during a forced march.  After his escape, Ma Lianfu (马廉府) immediately went to Kaifeng to ask the nationalist provincial chairman Liu Maoen (刘茂恩) for help, but instead, he was executed on the spot for his failure as Liu Maoen (刘茂恩) ordered him to be shot in front of other nationalist commanders.  On the other front, the communist 38th Army established a new base in the regions of Merchant County (Shang Xian, 商县), Luonan (洛南) and Merchant Southern (Shang Nan, 商南), while the communist 12th Brigade established another new base in the regions of Mountain Sun (Shan Yang, 山阳), Yun Xi (郧西), Zhen'an (Zhen An, 镇安), Upper Pass (Shang Guan, 上关).