[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation Midford

lved
The background to the operational situation
The CMF's concept of how the operation was to be conducted
The allocation of troops to task
The in-theatre deployment plan
The rules of engagement
A crash course for the Kiwis on the Clansman radio

The operational areas during the Rhodesian War were:

A. Operation Ranger – Northwest border
B. Operation Thrasher – Eastern border
C. Operation Hurricane – Northeast border
D. Operation Repulse – Southeast border
E. Operation Grapple – Midlands
F. Operation Splinter – Kariba
G. Operation Tangent – Matabeleland
H. "SALOPS" – Salisbury & District

The Peacekeeping Forces on the ground, were broken down as follows: 
There were 16 Assembly Places (AP November and AP Quebec later closed).
There were 39 RVs during the ceasefire period.

The New Zealand contingent provided:
 a Headquarters element based at Morgan High School, Salisbury.
 2 x Assembly Place Teams (AP LIMA and AP MIKE).
 3 x Sub-Joc (Joint Operations Command) Teams.
 8 x Company Based Teams (co-located with Rhodesian Units).
 2 x border Liaison Teams.

Forward deployment

The decision to deploy the Monitoring Force was made on 24 December 1979, and the forward deployment took place over the next three days with the ceasefire coming into effect at 2359 + 1, on 28 December. This was an extremely tense time as no one knew how the communist guerrillas in the operational areas might react, but the large number of reporters in Rhodesia may have prevented further escalation.

During the forward deployment phase the weather was highly unfavourable, and Royal Air Force aircrew flew missions that would never have been authorised under normal circumstances. There were a number of contacts during this phase of the operation: A Rhodesian Escort AFV (Crocodile) was destroyed by a mine near Bulawayo; an RAF Puma helicopter crashed killing the three-man aircrew; a Hercules aircraft was shot up by small arms fire near Umtali; and an RV Team was ambushed in the Zambezi Valley but escaped without casualties.

Assembly phase

The Assembly phase was a seven-day period when all of the communist units and cells spread throughout Rhodesia, and in several of the neighbouring countries were guaranteed unhindered movement into RV's and Assembly Places. Once in the Assembly Place, all communists, both Regular Force and guerrillas were required to register their name, weapon and that weapon's serial number. Both the ZIPRA and ZANLA had played down the size of their forces and over that seven-day period more than 22,000 communist soldiers marched into the 16 Assembly Places.

The sheer size of the various ZIPRA and ZANLA units created logistical challenges, and to avoid "under issues", if any communist unit required some special item (e.g., sanitary pads, female underwear), a drop was immediately arranged to all of the Assembly Places, sometimes causing amusement to the troops on the ground (ZANLA had a sizeable force of female guerillas). The communists were supposed to arrive at the Assembly Places carrying all of their own equipment, however most of them carried little more than an AK47, a couple of magazines and the clothes they were wearing. Many wore no boots. Food and meat shortages caused major problems on a number of occasions and almost resulted in the deaths of a number of Peacekeepers who were taken hostage. It had been understood that the communists lived on sadza (i.e., corn mealie meal), and initially no meat was provided for them. This was quickly rectified, by the CMF importing several planeloads of South African beef.

Once in the Assembly Places, the communist troops became very lax and always carried their personal weapon "locked, cocked and ready to rock"; that is several magazines taped together on the weapon, the weapon cocked with a round in the tube, safety catch "off", and sights set to maximum range. This resulted in a plague of unauthorised discharges (UDs) and numerous casualties. It also caused tremendous stress and tension amongst the MF Teams. There were even UDs with hand grenades and Rocket-propelled grenades resulting in injury and loss of life. There was also the ever-present danger of mines throughout the entire operation.

Redeployment of RV teams

The ceasefire ended on 4 January 1980 at 2359 + 1, and as most of the communists were now gathered at the various Assembly Places, the RV Teams were disbanded and those men were then added to various Assembly Places so as to boost the numbers there. Assembly Place "November" and Assembly Place "Quebec" were both closed as no communists had been recently operating in that area (Northern border), and the Commonwealth troops at those locations were redistributed to some of the larger Assembly Places that were holding several thousand communists. Assembly Place Foxtrot held over 6,000 communists.

Election period