[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Camden Expedition

hdrew to Camden, in order to resupply his army, which was then on half-rations. Price had stripped Camden of personnel in order to defend Washington, and the Union forces occupied the city on April 15 against no significant opposition, but found no supplies awaiting him.

Engagement at Poison Spring

After a two-day wait, Maj. Gen. Steele sent out foraging parties into the countryside and awaited news from Banks. However, Banks was in retreat, having been defeated at the Battle of Mansfield, and now more of Smith's forces were heading into Arkansas to intercept Steele. Dwindling supplies for his army at Camden forced Steele to send out a 1,200-man foraging party to gather corn that the Confederates had stored about twenty miles away. After loading the corn into over 200 wagons and proceeding about 5 miles on April 18, Col. James M. Williams's party was savagely attacked by Marmaduke's and Brig. Gen. Samuel B. Maxey's Confederates at the Poison Spring. Williams was forced to retreat northward into a marsh, where his men finally regrouped and fell back to Camden, minus the wagonloads of much needed corn.

Action at Marks’ Mills

Steele was relieved on April 20 when a wagon train arrived from Pine Bluff with welcome supplies. One week later, the Battle of Marks' Mills resulted in the capture of 2,000 more of Steele's men and many more wagons. Steele decided to abandon Camden under the cover of darkness and retreated to Little Rock on April 26. Three days later, he reached the Saline River at Jenkins' Ferry and began constructing a pontoon bridge.

Engagement at Jenkins' Ferry

Smith's Confederates arrived at Jenkins' Ferry on April 30 and repeatedly attacked the retreating Federals in windy and rainy conditions. Steele repulsed the attacks and finally crossed with what was left of his force, destroying the bridge to prevent Smith from following. He was compelled to abandon most of his remaining supply wagons in the swamp north of the river. A badly chagrined Steele finally reached his base at the Little Rock Arsenal on May 3.

Aftermath
The Camden Expedition was perhaps the greatest Federal military disaster in Arkansas throughout the war. Union forces suffered over 2,500 casualties, lost hundreds of wagons and failed to take Shreveport or Texas. Confederate forces freely roamed rural Arkansas, while the Federals stayed in their fortifications at Fort Smith, Pine Bluff, Helena, and Little Rock. Confederate success in Arkansas did not come without a cost, however. Resources might have been used more effectively against Porter and Banks while the Union fleet was delayed due to low water on the Red River. Instead, Porter's fleet was able to escape nearly intact.

Battlefield preservation

Nine nationally significant historic places in Clark, Cleveland, Grant, Hempstead, Nevada, Ouachita, and Pulaski counties, where events of the Union army's disastrous Camden Expedition occurred, are individually listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places. They were collectively designated a national historic landmark on April 19, 1994.

Image gallery

See also 
 Arkansas Heritage Trails System
 Troop engagements of the American Civil War, 1864

References

Further reading

 
 
 
 U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies. Series 1, Vol. XXXIV, Part 1, Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.

External links

 Camden Expedition Civil War Trail at Arkansas Department of Parks & Tourism
 Camden Expedition at the Encyclopedia of Arkansas
 The Camden Expedition at Historical Marker Database

 
1864 in the American Civil War
1864 in Arkansas
March 1864 events
April 1864 events
May 1864 events
Arkansas in the American Civil War
Campaigns of the Trans-Mississippi Theater of the American Civil War
Confederate victories of the American Civil War
Expeditions of the American Civil War
Military operations of the American Civil War in Arkansas
Red River campaign
Strategic operations of the Union Army in the American Civil War