[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Naela Chohan

Naela Chohan (Urdu: نائلہ چوہان, alternative spelling Naila Chohan) (born 6 May 1958 in Rawalpindi, Pakistan) is a Pakistani ambassador, artist and diplomat. As a seasoned and veteran diplomat, ambassador Chohan has assumed a leadership position in eight different Pakistani diplomatic missions on five different continents. Naela Chohan is a hyperpolyglot with demonstrable fluency in seven Indo-European languages including Persian, French, and Spanish.

Along with only a handful of other diplomats, Naela Chohan represents the first and senior-most cohort of women to rise to the highest echelon of Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Canada's weekly foreign policy Embassy Magazine in January, 2008 described her by saying that "though slight in stature and soft in speech, Naela Chohan accounts for 50 per cent of the Pakistani foreign service's most potent power couple." Having started her diplomatic career on the China Desk at Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, she has been a proponent of a strong Pakistan-China Alliance premised on multifaceted cooperation. Naela Chohan is also committed to the prohibition of global Chemical Weapons, being the first civilian and woman to head the National Authority on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical weapons in Pakistan. She is responsible for having conceived or restored several Pakistani landmarks including the Plaza de Pakistan in Buenos Aires, Argentina. She was the first female foreign diplomat to be received in Tehran by the Iranian government after the 1979 Revolution.

Naela Chohan has served as High Commissioner of Pakistan to Australia, where she laid emphasis on bolstering bilateral ties, therein prioritizing the enhancement of security, agricultural, educational and economic relations. She has previously served as Pakistan's Secretary for the Middle East and Africa, prior to which she was the Ambassador of Pakistan to Argentina, Uruguay, Peru and Ecuador, where she has been a vocal proponent of stronger ties between Pakistan and Latin America. She is an alumnus of Quaid-e-Azam University and Harvard Kennedy School at Harvard University.

Beyond her diplomatic career, Ambassador Naela Chohan is a strong advocate of Women's Rights through the medium of visual arts, including subjects of pertinence to the social condition of women,. Exhibitions of her art have taken place on five continents and have garnered the accolades of civil society as well as heads of state. Her most notable work is Souffrance, which is kept on permanent display at the UNESCO headquarters in Paris since 2002.

Career
Born in Rawalpindi, Pakistan, Chohan has served as ambassador of Pakistan to Australia, where she laid emphasis on bolstering bilateral ties, therein prioritizing the enhancement of security, agricultural, educational and economic relations. She assumed this office on 29 October 2014 at Government House, Canberra. In this capacity, she is also accredited to Pacific nations including Fiji, Papua New Guinea, The Solomon Islands, and Vanuatu, among others. In April, 2018, she inaugurated the Consulate General of Pakistan in Melbourne. Having started her diplomatic career on the China Desk at Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, she has been a proponent of a strong Pakistan-China Alliance premised on multifaceted cooperation.

Along with only a handful of other diplomats, Naela Chohan represents the first and senior-most cohort of women to rise to the highest echelon of Pakistan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She has the honour as a woman of being the first female foreign diplomat to be received in Tehran by the Iranian government after the 1979 Revolution. Canada's weekly foreign policy Embassy Magazine in January, 2008 described her by saying that "though slight in stature and soft in speech, Naela Chohan accounts for 50 per cent of the Pakistani foreign service's most potent power couple."