[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richard Di Natale

lect Committee into the Abbott government 2014 federal budget budget cuts and Deputy Chair of the Senate Select Committee into health. He is the co-convener of the Parliamentary Friends for Drug Policy and Law Reform, the Parliamentary Friends of West Papua and the Parliamentary Friends of Medicine.

On 3 February 2020, Di Natale resigned as leader of the Greens and announced his intention to resign from the Senate, citing family responsibilities. Adam Bandt was elected unopposed to replace Di Natale for the leadership role. Lidia Thorpe was selected by Greens members to fill the Senate vacancy caused by Di Natale's resignation. Di Natale resigned from the Senate on 26 August 2020.

Political views
Di Natale supports legalising recreational cannabis usage, and has admitted to having smoked marijuana before.

Personal life
Di Natale, his wife and two sons live on a hobby farm in the foothills of Victoria's Otway Ranges. His sister, Deborah, is married to former Victorian Greens leader Greg Barber and was a City of Yarra councillor from 2002 until 2004.

Growing up in Melbourne, Di Natale played Australian rules football for the Coburg and Oakleigh Football Clubs in the Victorian Football Association and is a long time Richmond Tigers fan.

References

External links

 Home Page
 Summary of parliamentary voting for Senator Richard Di Natale on TheyVoteForYou.org.au

1970 births
Living people
Australian Greens members of the Parliament of Australia
Australian politicians of Italian descent
Australian general practitioners
La Trobe University alumni
Australian LGBT rights activists
Medical doctors from Melbourne
Members of the Australian Senate
Members of the Australian Senate for Victoria
Monash University alumni
Coburg Football Club players
Oakleigh Football Club players
Australian rules footballers from Melbourne
Leaders of the Australian Greens
21st-century Australian politicians
Australian public health doctors
Australian people of Sicilian descent
People of Apulian descent
People educated at Parade College
Politicians from Melbourne