[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Ștefan Voitec

Commission, presiding upon the Tour of Romania edition in June 1951. He still held on to his position in the PMR Central Committee, but lost his Politburo seat during a reshuffle on May 27, 1952. The November election brought him a MAN deputy seat for his native Corabia—which he then retook in 1957.

Stalin's death in March 1953 relaxed pressures on Voitec and his circle. Martinescu notes that a "sweetening of the regime" appeared probable on August 23, 1953, when "Voitec's beard and Rădăceanu's purple-drunk face" could be seen at the PMR's official tribune. Returning to prominence, Voitec occupied important positions during the final years of Gheorghiu-Dej's rule, and preserved them once Ceaușescu took control. His comeback was signaled on October 5, 1955, when Gheorghiu-Dej made him Minister of Internal Trade. In this capacity, he appointed his friend Grigore Păsărin as a branch Director—reportedly, the first industrial worker to take up such a high position at Internal Trade. Voitec himself served to November 24, 1956, the day when he was elevated to Deputy Premier. From December 28, 1952 to July 24, 1965, Voitec was also a junior member of the PMR Politburo. Neither he nor any other among the PSDR arrivals to the Politburo were allowed an actual say in politics; moreover, from December 1955, Voitec remained one of the few interwar non-communists to still be allowed a seat on that panel. In late 1956, he and Constantin Pârvulescu formed the PMR delegation to the 8th Congress of the Italian Communist Party.

Part of a state delegation to the Soviet Union in November 1957, Voitec survived the tarmac accident at Vnukovo International Airport. In September of the following year, he served with Mihai Beniuc, Athanase Joja and Lucia Sturdza-Bulandra on the citizens' committee which organized a festival marking Bucharest's Quincentennial. In September 1960, he was in New York City with Gheorghiu-Dej and Leonte Răutu, attending the Fifteenth Regular Session of the United Nations General Assembly. They returned on the Queen Mary to Cherbourg, visiting Paris on October 18. During their stay there, they held receptions which were attended by, among others, Louis Aragon, Emmanuel d'Astier de La Vigerie, Pierre Cot, Waldeck Rochet, and Jean-Claude Servan-Schreiber.

Under "real socialism"
Voitec maintained his government position in the cabinets of Chivu Stoica and Ion Gheorghe Maurer to March 20, 1961, serving as both Deputy Premier and Minister of Trading Goods (March 28, 1957 – April 17, 1959). He was again sent to the MAN in the election of 1961, this time as a representative of the Electroputere workers, in Craiova. He continued to represent that constituency for three more electoral cycles, being reconfirmed for the seat one final time in March 1980. On March 25, 1961, while losing his position as Deputy Premier, Voitec became one of three acting Chairmen of the State Council. 

Moving up to compensate for Pârvulescu's downfall, in 1961 Voitec was assigned Chairmanship of the MAN. In this capacity, he presided over the special parliamentary meetings of April 1962, which were held at the National Economy Pavilion and celebrated the completion of collectivization in Romania. He served as MAN leader continuously to March 1974, though he had lost his post in the State Council in 1965. In 1964, he was also serving on the National Council of the People's Democratic Front (the reshuffled National Democratic Front). Tomašić notes that, in 1961, Voitec was still only an "outer-ring" leader of the PMR, speculating that he was mistrusted, and deemed unworthy, "because of his Social-Democratic past, his university education, his intellectual cast of mind, and also because of his Italian wife". Signals about his heterodox convictions were still sent by General Dumitru Petrescu, who had been sidelined for "fractionism". In 1964, he sent an exculpatory letter to Gheorghiu-Dej, reminding him that Voitec had once been a Trotskyist.

March 1965 marked Gheorghiu-Dej's death, with Voitec included on the honor guard at the funeral. Apostol Stan identifies Voitec, alongside Bodnăraș and Maurer, as one of Ceaușescu's key accomplices in the power struggle which took place over the following weeks. Upon Ceaușescu's ascendancy, on July 24, Voitec was advanced to full member of the Executive Committee of the Romanian Communist Party—as the Politburo and the PMR had been renamed. Like some of his colleagues there (including Răutu, Paul Niculescu-Mizil, Gogu Rădulescu, and Leontin Sălăjan), he had the distinction of not having served on the last Politburo. He maintained this office to the day of his death.