[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Dickson Crane

oined the International Institute of Islamic Thought as its Director of Publications, and then helped to found the American Muslim Council, now defunct, serving as Director of its Legal Division from 1992 to 1994. In this capacity he was the founding President of the Muslim American Bar Association.

In 1994, Crane founded his Center for Civilizational Renewal in Santa Fe, New Mexico, where he produced his book, Shaping the Future: Challenge and Response. In 1996 he founded the Center for Public Policy Research located in Springfield, Virginia, with Ahmad Yousef's United Association for Studies and Research and served until 2001 as Managing Director of its scholarly Middle East Affairs Journal. He then published as head of his Islamic Institute for Strategic Studies and as Senior Research Fellow at the International Institute of Islamic Thought.

In 2011 he was recruited by the "world's largest think-tank", the Qatar Foundation in the State of Qatar, to teach a course on "How Policy is Made in Washington". When he arrived on January 1, 2012, he was reassigned to be a full professor and Director of a new research center in the Qatar Faculty of Islamic Studies, entitled the Center for the Study of Islamic Thought and Muslim Societies, charged with studying the origins, state of the art, and future scenarios for the so-called Arab Spring.

On January 1, 2014, Crane was appointed Professor Emeritus for 18 months to complete his four-volume textbook, Islam and Muslims: Essence and Practice, as a model and part of a proposal for a Holistic Education Center to produce edited textbooks on Christianity, Judaism, Buddhism, Confucianism, and Indigenous Religions by spiritual scholars in these world religions.

Publications
Crane has co-authored more than a dozen books, including:
 Détente: Cold War Strategies in Transition, Dulles and Crane, CSIS, Praeger, 1965
 Planning the Future of Saudi Arabia: A Model for Achieving National Priorities, Praeger, 1978
 Shaping the Future: Challenge and Response, Tapestry, 1997.

These books have been augmented by numerous monographs, including the following produced under the Islamic Institute for Strategic Studies before the September 11, 2001 attacks:
 Meta-law: An Islamic Policy Paradigm, 49 pages
 The Grand Strategy of Justice, 83 pages
 Kosovo and Chechnya: Products of the Past, Harbingers of the Future, 32 pages
 The Role of Religion in America, 24 pages
 The Muslim Challenge in America and the World, 35 pages
As a scholar honored in the annual publication, the Muslim500 most influential Muslims in the world, he also contributes an annual "state of the world" essay, including the following:

2012 - U.S. Foreign Policy in the Muslim World, Justice as Grand Strategy: The Missing Dimension in American Foreign Policy Toward the Muslim World.

2013-2014 - Flameout of the Muslim Brotherhood: Options for the Future.

2014-2015 - Holistic Education and the Challenges of Interfaith Cooperation.

2016 - Kurdistan: Pivot of West Asia?

References

1929 births
2021 deaths
Converts to Islam
American Muslims
American Muslim activists
Harvard Law School alumni
United States National Security Council staffers
American political consultants
People from Cambridge, Massachusetts
Ambassadors of the United States to the United Arab Emirates