[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 164]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ld
I have avoided which fill these aged eyes with tears, and pierce my soul
with horror as often as I recollect them! I should not have been witness
to such a waste of human blood, nor traced the gradual ruin of my
country. I should not have seen our towns involved in flames, nor our
helpless children the captives of fell barbarians. But it is in vain for
human beings to repine at the just decrees of Providence, which have
consigned every people to misery and servitude that abandon virtue, and
attach themselves to the pursuit of pleasure.

"'I left Arabia, with a heart penetrated with gratitude and admiration
for its virtuous and benevolent inhabitants. They dismissed me with
every mark of kindness and hospitality, guided me over their dreary
deserts, and at parting presented me with one of those beautiful horses
which are the admiration of all the surrounding nations. I will not
trouble you with an account of the different countries which I wandered
over in search of wisdom and experience. At length I returned to my
native city, determined to pass the rest of my life in obscurity and
retirement; for the result of all my observations was, that he is
happiest who passes his time in innocent employments and the observation
of nature. I had seen the princes and nobles of the earth repining in
the midst of their splendid enjoyments, disgusted with the empty
pageantry of their situation, and wishing in vain for the humble
tranquillity of private life. I had visited many of the principal cities
in several countries where I had travelled, but I had uniformly
observed, that the miseries and crimes of mankind increased with their
numbers. I therefore determined to avoid the general contagion by fixing
my abode in some sequestered spot, at a distance from the passions and
pursuits of my fellow-creatures.

"'Having therefore collected the remainder of my effects, and with them
purchased a little farm and vineyard in a beautiful and solitary spot
near the sea, I soon afterwards married a virtuous young woman, and in
her society enjoyed, for several years, as great a degree of
tranquillity as generally falls to the lot of man. I did not disdain to
exercise with my own hands the different employments of agriculture; for
I thought man was dishonoured by that indolence which renders him a
burthen to his fellow-creatures, not by that industry which is necessary
to the support of his species. I therefore sometimes guided the plough
with my own hands, sometimes laboured in a little garden, which
supplied us with excellent fruits and herbs; I likewise tended the
cattle, whose patient labour enabled us to subdue the soil, and
considered myself as only repaying part of the obligations I had
received. My wife, too, exercised herself in domestic cares; she milked
the sheep and goats, and chiefly prepared the food of the family.

"'Amidst my other employments I did not entirely forget the study of
philosophy, which had charmed me so much in my early youth. I frequently
observed, with admiration, the wisdom and contrivance which were
displayed in all the productions of nature, and the perfection of all
her works. I used to walk amid the coolness and stillness of the
evening, feeding my mind with pleasing meditations upon the power and
wisdom which have originally produced and still support this frame of
things. I turned my eyes upon the earth, and saw it covered with
innumerable animals, that sported upon its surface, and found, each
according to his nature, subsistence adapted to his wants. I saw the air
and water themselves teeming with life and peopled with innumerable
swarms of insects. I saw that, throughout the whole extent of creation,
as far as I was capable of observing it, nothing was waste or
desolate--everything was replete with life and adapted to support it.
These reflections continually excited in my mind new gratitude and
veneration for that mysterious Being, whose goodness presides over such
an infinite variety of beings. I endeavoured to elevate my thoughts to
contemplate His nature and qualities; I however found my faculties too
bounded to comprehend the infinite perfections of His nature; I
therefore contented myself with imperfectly tracing Him in His works,
and adoring Him as the common friend and parent of all His creatures.

"'Nor did I confine myself to these speculations, however sublime and
consolatory to the human heart. Destined as we are to inhabit this globe
of earth, it is our interest to be acquainted with its nature, and the
properties of its productions. For this reason, I particularly examined
all the vegetables which are capable of becoming the food of man, or of
the various animals which contribute to his support. I studied their
qualities, the soil in which they delighted, and the improvements which
might be made in every species. I sometimes wandered among the
neighbouring mountains, and wherever the fall of rocks, or