[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ropsha

ver Europe for hunting, fishing, and dining in Russian style. Ropsha also had a military garrison; a cavalry division was stationed there until 1918.

During the Russian Civil War Ropsha saw some heavy fighting, as General Yudenich wrested it from the Bolsheviks on two occasions.

Siege of Leningrad

From September 1941 to January 1944, during the siege of Leningrad, Ropsha was occupied by the troops of Nazi Germany. During World War II, from 1941 to 1944, Ropsha was mentioned in the Nazi military reports to Adolf Hitler's office as an important commanding hill with a strategic artillery post having unobstructed direct view on central Leningrad. From the artillery positions in Ropsha the Germans continued artillery bombardments of Leningrad and its southern suburbs for two years. During that time, the Germans robbed and vandalized the imperial estate; a special unit looted the palace and moved its valuable art collection to Nazi Germany. Then the palace was destroyed by the Nazis using explosive devices.

On January 19, 1944, Ropsha was retaken from the Nazi occupation as part of the Leningrad–Novgorod Offensive ending the siege. However, the palace remained in ruins and was in disrepair due to the magnitude of German damage in World War II.

Inscribed with other imperial estates into the World Heritage List, the edifice may still be viewed in its half-ruined state. Re-building the Ropsha Palace and park to its original grandeur remains a difficult task due to severe damages and losses that require a costly reconstruction, and also because of risks related to remaining land-mines and other explosives left after the Nazi siege of Leningrad.

Today
, Ropsha Estate was deserted and at the verge of collapse. In October 2016, the palace was leased to the state-owned Rosneft oil corporation for 99 years. The company promised to restore the palace and to create access for tourists to the estate after restoration.

Notes

External links
Official website of Ropsha
Ropsha Ruins Await Reconstruction and Renovation After Years of Neglect
 Brief history of Ropsha

Rural localities in Leningrad Oblast
Palaces in Russia
World Heritage Sites in Russia
Buildings and structures in Leningrad Oblast
Petergofsky Uyezd
Lomonosovsky District, Leningrad Oblast
Peter III of Russia