[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Funeral Games (novel)

es Arrhidaios on the throne, but then is outmanoeuvred and assassinated by Perdikkas.
 Nearchos, Macedonian admiral. Boyhood friend of Alexander the Great.
 Nikanor, brother of Kassandros, betrayer of Eurydike, victim of Olympias.
 Olympias (376 BC to 316 BC), the mother of Alexander the Great. She briefly ruled in Macedon in the interregnum between Eurydike and Kassandros. Her rule was a Reign of Terror. She was killed in a Biblical-style Stoning by the relatives of those she had put to death.
 Peithon, staff officer of Alexander, later of Perdikkas.
 Peukestes, Satrap of Persia.
 Philip II, king of Macedon, father of Alexander, of Kleopatra, of Ptolemy, of Kynna, and of Arrhidaios. He is also grandfather of Alexander IV.
 Polyperchon, Macedonian general who served under both Philip and Alexander. Appointed by Antipater to succeed him as regent of Macedon.
 Ptolemy, also known as Ptolemaios, a general of Alexander who has the gift of knowing his own limitations and resists the temptation of contending for the Imperial Throne. Instead, he gets himself appointed Satrap of Egypt. When the time is ripe, he becomes Pharaoh, founding a new dynasty.
 Roxane, Princess of Bactria (Afghanistan). First wife of Alexander the Great, mother of Alexander IV. Murderer of Stateira and Drypetis.
 Seleukos or Seleucos, staff general of Alexander. Later a king, and founder of the Seleucid Empire.
 Sisygambis, mother of Darius III, whom she disowned because of his cowardice. Adoptive mother of Alexander the Great.
 Theophrastos, successor of Aristotle as director of the Lyceum in Athens. A client of Kassandros, he accepts all the slanderous lies against Alexander that the usurper tells him.

References

Sources
The historical sources listed for this book are:
 Quintus Curtius, Book X, "for events immediately after Alexander's death..."
 Diodorus Siculus, Books XVIII and XIX, for subsequent events.

1981 British novels
Novels by Mary Renault
Cultural depictions of Alexander the Great
British LGBT novels
Novels set in ancient Persia
Novels set in the 4th century BC
Pantheon Books books
Novels about royalty
1980s LGBT novels