[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniel Rudd

a consortium of the roughly two hundred Black newspapers being published in the country at the time) to ask Rudd to serve as its president. The enterprising Rudd served in this capacity even as he worked to keep his Queen City printing business and printing school afloat.

Colored Catholic Congress 

Rudd was very observant activist, watching and interacting with various organizations, discussing matters unique to the respective organizations. In particular, Rudd watched the workings of the German Roman Catholic Central Verein. In September 1887, Rudd attended a gathering in Chicago to address the group. Upon his return, he complained about the fact that the German and Irish were organized, but African Americans were not. He thought to gather Black Catholics to discuss various troubles in the Black community.

He built the idea of an English-speaking Catholic congress in the hope that all races would attend. Before the call, Rudd explained that those looking for freedom must first be the ones to “strike a blow”. He believed that the way to win the Black population to the Catholic church was to “find out how many Catholics we would have to start with and then put that force to work”.

In May 1888, Rudd called upon Black Catholics all over the country under the “Blessing of Holy Mother Church.” It was believed that this group could serve as a “leaven” of the race, lifting all African Americans both in the eyes of God and in humanity. It was well known that Rudd's advocacy reached farther than simple equality and justice but went beyond to national issues and problems such as legal segregation, equality for women, lynching, discrimination, employment, labor strife, and public-school segregation. He wanted to include all the injustices facing people of color everywhere, but specifically Africa and Latin America.

The Colored Catholic Congress held its first meeting in Washington, D.C. in January 1889, where Venerable Father Augustus Tolton, the nation's first openly-Black priest, celebrated Mass, and the 200-strong group met with President Grover Cleveland. The Congress met for five more years before disbanding. (An organization with a similar name and focus was founded in 1987.)

Collapse of the Tribune 
In 1897, there was a collapse of the Tribune due to the economic recession and increased competition from other businesses in the newspaper industry in Cincinnati and Philadelphia, as well as new Black Catholic papers in other parts of the country.

Later career 
By the end of his journalism career, Rudd had gone through many personal changes and found it best if he moved to the South and sought work in Mississippi and Arkansas. Rudd also may have been attracted to the South because of the economic opportunities that had opened up, allowing Black people to get cheap land. He worked in Bolivar County, Mississippi, as a lumber mill manager, and eventually he went to work for Scott Bond, Arkansas' first Black millionaire.

Rudd later found himself working as a business manager, accountant, inventor, and teacher. After a while, Rudd started to notice that the movement toward equality for African Americans was moving at a very slow pace, prompting him to accept Booker T. Washington’s self-help philosophy. That philosophy emphasized creating and building up businesses instead of the faith and churches, to achieve maximum economic advancement toward growth and change. That philosophy of self-help did not last very long after Rudd was invited to and participated at the NAACP convention in Cleveland in 1919.

Death
In 1932 Rudd suffered a stroke, after which his family brought him back to his childhood home. He passed away there on December 3, 1933, at the age of 79.

He is buried in St. Joseph's Cemetery, adjacent to Rudd's childhood parish of the same name (now the Basilica of Saint Joseph Proto-Cathedral).

Personal life 
Many Catholic clergy and Rudd's close friends always described him as highly intelligent, a great businessman, and fluent in several languages, but one key thing that apparently stuck out about Rudd was his unbreakable faith in his Catholic upbringing and roots.

Legacy and honors 
Rudd remains a vaunted figure in the history of Black Catholicism, and is highly honored among its adherents as well as in the larger American Church.

In Fall 2020, Rudd's childhood parish—in conjunction with the Archdiocese of Louisville—announced plans to unveil a memorial historical marker at his gravesite on All Saints' Day of that same year, commemorating his impact on American Catholicism and the larger United States.

References

Bibliography