[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 71]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

hile the children of the poor run about barefooted upon the ice, and
divert themselves with making snow-balls.

_Tommy._--That is indeed true; for I have seen my mother's visitors
sitting over the largest fire that could be made, and complaining of
cold, while the labourers out of doors were stripped to their shirts to
work, and never minded it in the least.

_Harry._--Then I should think that exercise, by which a person can warm
himself when he pleases, is an infinitely better thing than all these
conveniences you speak of; because, after all, they will not hinder a
person from being cold, but exercise will warm him in an instant.

_Tommy._--But then it is not proper for gentlemen to do the same kind of
work with the common people.

_Harry._--But is it not proper for a gentleman to have his body stout
and hardy?

_Tommy._--To be sure it is.

_Harry._--Why, then, he must sometimes labour and use his limbs, or else
he will never be able to do it.

_Tommy._--What! cannot a person be strong without working?

_Harry._--You can judge for yourself. You very often have fine young
gentlemen at your father's house, and are any of them as strong as the
sons of the farmers in the neighbourhood, who are always used to handle
a hoe, a spade, a fork, and other tools?

_Tommy._--Indeed, I believe that is true, for I think I am become
stronger myself since I have learned to divert myself in Mr Barlow's
garden.

As they were conversing in this manner, a little boy came singing along,
with a bundle of sticks at his back; and as soon as Harry saw him, he
recollected him, and cried out, "As I am alive, here as I am is Jack
Smithers, the little ragged boy that you gave the clothes to in the
summer! He lives, I dare say, in the neighbourhood, and either he or his
father will now show us the way home."

[Illustration: "As I am alive, here is Jack Smithers, the little ragged
boy that you gave the clothes to in the summer!"

_P. 202._]

Harry then spoke to the boy, and asked him if he could show them the way
out of the wood. "Yes, surely I can," answered the boy; "but I never
should have thought of seeing Master Merton out so late in such a
tempestuous night as this; but, if you will come with me to my father's
cottage, you may warm yourself at our fire, and father will run to Mr
Barlow to let him know you are safe."

Tommy accepted the offer with joy, and the little boy led them out of
the wood, and in a few minutes they came to a small cottage which stood
by the side of the road, which, when they entered, they saw a
middle-aged woman busy in spinning; the eldest girl was cooking some
broth over the fire; the father was sitting in the chimney-corner, and
reading a book, while three or four ragged children were tumbling upon
the floor, and creeping between their father's legs.

"Daddy," said the little boy, as he came in, "here is Master Merton, who
was so good to us all in the summer; he has lost his way in the wood,
and is almost perished in the snow."

The man upon this arose, and with much civility desired the two little
boys to seat themselves by the fire, while the good woman ran to fetch
her largest faggot, which she threw upon the fire, and created a
cheerful blaze in an instant. "There, my dear little master," said she,
"you may at least refresh yourself by our fire, and I wish I had
anything to offer you that you could eat; but I am afraid you would
never be able to bear such coarse brown bread as we poor folks are
obliged to eat." "Indeed," said Tommy, "my good mother, I have fasted so
long, and I am so hungry, that I think I could eat anything." "Well,
then," answered the woman, "here is a little bit of gammon of bacon
which I will broil for you upon the embers, and if you can make a supper
you are heartily welcome."

While the good woman was thus preparing supper the man had closed his
book, and placed it with great respect upon a shelf, which gave Tommy
the curiosity to ask him what he was reading about. "Master," answered
the man, "I was reading the Book which teaches me my duty towards man,
and my obligations to God; I was reading the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and
teaching it to my children."

_Tommy._--Indeed, I have heard of that good Book; Mr Barlow has often
read part of it to me, and promised I should read it myself. That is the
Book they read at church; I have often heard Mr Barlow read it to the
people; and he always reads it so well and so affectingly that everybody
listens, and you may hear even a pin drop upon the pavement.

_The Man._--Yes, master, Mr Barlow is a worthy servant and follower of
Jesus Christ himself; he is the friend of all the poor in the
neighbourhood; he gives us food and medicines when we are ill, and he
employs us when we can find no work; but what we are even more obliged
to him for than the giving us food and raiment, and life itself, he
instructs us in our duty, makes us ashamed of our fau