[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 in Iran

il. Nine days later Iran announced that it would not move all activity to Russia, thus leading to a de facto termination of the deal.

May

June
 June 21 – Iran is eliminated from FIFA World Cup after losing 3–1 and 2–0 to Mexico and Portugal, and a 1–1 tie game with Angola in the group stage.

July

August
 August 16 – Defensive wall of a huge fortress belonging to the Parthian dynastic era is discovered in Nader Tepe by archeologists.
 August 19 – "Blow of Zolfaqar" war-games begin in southeastern Iran.
 August 26 – President Ahmadinejad launches new heavy-water-production plant in Arak.
 August 28 – Archeological excavations behind Gotvand Dam lead to discovery of 15 fortresses belonging to the Parthian, Sassanid and Islamic periods as well as 15 catacombs belonging to the Parthian dynastic era.
 August 28 – President Ahmadinejad has told German Chancellor that the Holocaust may have been invented by the victorious Allied powers in World War II to embarrass Germany.
 August 30 – US Grants Visa to former Iranian President Khatami.

September
 September 1 – Iran plane crash kills at least 29 at Mashhad airport.
 September 1 – Iran fails to stop enriching uranium despite a UN deadline calling for a halt to its nuclear programme.
 September 2 – Iran draws an AFC Asian Cup 2007 qualifier in Seoul against South Korea 1-1 with Hashemian's stoppage-time equalizer.
 September 4 – Iran finishes runner-up to Russia at the World Under-20 Freestyle Wrestling Championships in Guatemala.
 September 7 – Iran stands second at the world taekwondo Poomse competitions in the South Korean capital Seoul.
 September 12 – Iran discovers formula to cure AIDS: Health Minister; two-year effect on the body is guaranteed.
 September 20 – Anti-Zionist Jews welcome Ahmadinejad to New York.
 September 27 – Iran's Mohammadi and Surian grab gold in the final of the 2006 world freestyle competitions in Guangzhou, China.
 September 29 – Iran is ranked second at the 2006 World Freestyle Wrestling Championships. With one gold, one silver, and two bronze medals, the Iranian side finished runner-up to Russia.

October
 October 2 – A cloned sheep in good health and condition is born in Isfahan.
 October 2 – Iranian director Bahman Qobadi's "Half Moon" is picked to represent Iraq alongside the Iranian entry "Border Café" at next year's Oscars.
 October 3 – At least 40 followers of Ayatollah Boroujerdi—who urges separation of religion from the political basis of the state—are arrested.
 October 3 – Iranian taekwondo phenom Maysam Rafiei grabs the 58 kg gold medal of the 2006 world armies tournament in South Korea.
 October 4 – The contents of a letter by the late Ayatollah Khomeini, former leader of Iran, is revealed by Iran's former president Ayatollah Rafsanjani. The letter urges pursuit of nuclear weapons to be deployed against Iran's hostile neighbor, Iraq.
 October 8 – Iranian Hercules Rezazadeh wins gold medal in weightlifting world championships.
 October 11 – Iran makes blood cholesterol reducing tablet, Ezetimibe.
 October 12 – Iran heads into AFC Asian Cup finals after defeating Taiwan 2-0.
 October 15 – Hossein Rowhani ends Iran's 10-year world karate gold drought snatching the 60 kg kumite title in the 18th edition in Finland.
 October 16 – Iran finishes fifth in World Karate Championships with two gold and two bronze medals.
 October 16 – Iranian runner Hossein Fazeli wins world cross-country title in Sweden Sunday.
 October 17 – 1700-year-old Sassanid Watermill is discovered in Takht-e Soleiman by archeological excavations.
 October 19 – The poet, Parvin Etesami's house becomes national heritage site.
 October 20 – U.S. Sends Warships to Persian Gulf, including the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier U.S.S. Eisenhower, a cruiser, destroyer, frigate, submarine and a supply ship.
 October 22 – Iran's Agriculture jihad minister, Mohammad-Reza Eskandari survives Majlis impeachment receiving the parliament's vote of confidence.
 October 23 – The Iranian film, "Tears of Cold" wins the best film award in the 4th edition of Mountain film festival in Germany.
 October 26 – The Iranian government and Lebanese militia group Hezbollah is formally charged over the 1994 bombing of a Jewish centre in Buenos Aires.
 October 27 – Iran installs second network of centrifuges for uranium enrichment.
 October 28 – Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad fires the minister for cooperatives, Mohammad Nazemi Ardekani.