[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mel Alexenberg

Mel Alexenberg (born February 24, 1937) is an American-Israeli artist, art educator, and writer recognized for his pioneering work exploring the intersections of art, science, technology and digital culture. He created the first digital computer generated painting in 1965, experimental digital fine art prints in the 1980s that are in 30 museum collections worldwide, circumglobal cyberangel flights honoring Rembrandt in 1989 and in 2019, and a dialogue between tactile artworks and NFTs.

Alexenberg has educated generations of young artists as professor at Columbia University and universities in Israel, research fellow at MIT Center for Advanced Visual Studies, dean at New World School of the Arts in Miami, and head of the art department at Pratt Institute where he taught the first course on creating art with computers. In Israel, he was Founding Head in 1977 of Ramat Hanegev College affiliated with Bar-Ilan University where he was professor of education. In 1971, he was Founding Director of the Center for Creative Learning, Experimental School of University of Haifa that continues to educate Israeli youth as The Open School more than half century later.

Early life and education

Mel (Menahem) Alexenberg was born to Abraham and Jeanne Alexenberg in New York City. His integration of art and science had its origins in his childhood summers in the Catskill Mountains studying the creatures of the forests and ponds and making drawings and paintings of them in their natural habitats and in imaginary worlds. In his teenage years, he would skip school and spend days at the MoMA, The Met, and the Whitney when it was in Greenwich Village.

He earned degrees in biology from Queens College, City University of New York in 1958 and in education from Yeshiva University in 1959. While working in science education and was test center coordinator for the American Association for the Advancement of Science curriculum project “Science: A Process Approach,” he studied at the Art Students League of New York and exhibited his paintings exploring the growth patterns of plants at Ligoa Duncan Gallery on Madison Avenue.

Alexenberg developed a way for children to create a simple computer described in his 1964 paper “The Binary System and Computers” published in the National Science Teachers Association journal Science and Children, now with his other papers in the Smithsonian’s Archives of American Art. He wrote the books Light and Sight and Sound Science inviting children to discover how their senses of sight and hearing reveal the secrets of light and sound.

In 1965, he began his doctoral studies at New York University excited about the artistic possibilities of digital technologies when the first computer plotter arrived at NYU. He was given access to the massive computer to create geometric pictures on rolls of paper on which he painted with colorful pigments in the ancient technique of painting with molten waxes. His computer-generated painting “Noise Control” was reproduced as the cover the April 1966 issue of International Science and Technology. This was the first digital artwork in which a high tech computer generated image was transformed into a high touch painting.

Alexenberg was awarded an interdisciplinary doctorate in art, science, and cognitive psychology from NYU in 1969 for his research on creativity in art and science. He expanded his doctoral dissertation into a book Aesthetic Experience in Creative Process that includes his interviews of prominent American artists and scientists who described how creativity shaped their work.

Works
Experimental artist Mel Alexenberg’s works explore relationships between postdigital art and creative process, virtual and spiritual worlds, space-time systems and digital technologies, life sciences and human perception, participatory art and community collaboration, and tactile art and NFTs. Millions have seen his worldwide art events, environmental sculptures, multi-media installations, blogart narratives, and exhibitions of paintings and prints that explore digital, biological, and global systems. In his extensive writing, Alexenberg documents his creative process as he redefines art for a postdigital age. His papers are in the collection of the Archives of American Art of the Smithsonian Institution.