[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# American Airlines Theatre

ened that September and ran for 160 performances. That October, Arch Selwyn assumed responsibility for the theater's bookings for one year. The play The Constant Nymph also opened at the Selwyn in 1926; despite a successful West End run, it stayed on Broadway for a relatively short 148 performances.

The theater's bookings in 1927 consisted of several short runs, such as The Mating Season, The Manhatters, The Garden of Eden, and Nightstick. The next hit was Kaufman and Edna Ferber's The Royal Family, which opened in December 1927 and ran for nearly a year. By then, a lack of steady income led the Selwyn brothers to host shows on Sunday nights, when most other Broadway theaters did not operate. In addition to legitimate bookings, the Selwyn hosted events such as a debate about Benito Mussolini. Under Arch Selwyn, the theater became known for hosting revues. In November 1928, Arch Selwyn brought Noël Coward's musical This Year of Grace to the theater for 158 performances. The revue Keep It Clean opened in June 1929 but lasted only a short time. More successful was Cole Porter's Wake Up and Dream, which opened that December and ran for 138 performances.

The Selwyn hosted the revue Three's a Crowd with Clifton Webb in October 1930, which lasted 272 performances. The Selwyn brothers received a $650,000 loan for the office building and theater in 1931. At the onset of the Great Depression, many Broadway theaters were impacted by declining attendance. The Selwyn Theatre was among the venues that suffered, hosting 11 consecutive flops from 1931 to 1933. The Dry Dock Savings Bank, which had given the Selwyn brothers a mortgage loan on the theater, had stipulated that it would not foreclose on the mortgage as long as the brothers could produce a hit. Arch Selwyn hired Crosby Gaige to produce several shows, but none of them lasted for very long; one play, Ragged Army, ran for just two days.

Movie theater and decline

Early use and attempted live-show revival 

The theater was leased in April 1934 to the Anru Amusement Corporation, which started operating the Selwyn as a movie house the following month. The Selwyn brothers never again hosted a show at the theater. Arch Selwyn filed for bankruptcy shortly afterward; one of his debts was secured by a mortgage on the theater and office building. The theater was placed for sale at a foreclosure auction, and Dry Dock Savings Bank bought the theater in August 1934 for $610,000. Later the same year, Joseph Fitzula renovated the Selwyn Building. Among the office building's tenants at the time was the National Shakespearean Studio of Dramatic Art. The Brandt family bought the Selwyn Theatre and offices in 1937, subject to an existing first mortgage loan of $620,000. The theater operated under a "grindhouse" format, with films running continuously. This was part of a decline in the Broadway theater industry in the mid-20th century; from 1931 to 1950, the number of legitimate theaters decreased from 68 to 30. The box seats were removed when the Selwyn became a movie theater.

Billy Rose considered restoring either the Selwyn or the Apollo to legitimate use in 1943. By then, the ten theaters along 42nd Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues were all showing movies; this led Variety to call the block the "biggest movie center of the world". The Brandts owned seven of these theaters, while the Cinema circuit operated the other three. The Brandt theaters included the Selwyn, Apollo, Times Square, Lyric, and Victory theaters on the north side of 42nd Street, as well as the Eltinge and Liberty theaters on the south side. The Brandts used the Selwyn as their flagship theater on 42nd Street, screening first runs of Loews movies; some of the Selwyn's films moved to the Liberty afterward. Several producers offered to stage legitimate productions in these theaters, but none of the offers were successful. William Brandt indicated in 1946 that he might replace the theaters on the north side of 42nd Street with a skyscraper. By then, there was a shortage of new films in the theaters along 42nd Street, which led to decreased attendance.