[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Desmond Tutu

know the man himself". Allen noted that in 1984, Tutu was "the black leader white South Africans most loved to hate" and that this antipathy extended beyond supporters of the far-right government to liberals too. The fact that he was "an object of hate" for many was something that deeply pained him.

Tutu also drew criticism from within the anti-apartheid movement and the black South African community. He was criticised repeatedly for making statements on behalf of black South Africans without consulting other community leaders first. Some black anti-apartheid activists regarded him as too moderate, and in particular too focused on cultivating white goodwill. The African-American civil rights campaigner Bernice Powell, for instance, complained that he was "too nice to white people". According to Gish, Tutu "faced the perpetual dilemma of all moderates – he was often viewed suspiciously by the two hostile sides he sought to bring together". Tutu's critical view of Marxist-oriented communism and the governments of the Eastern Bloc, and the comparisons he drew between these administrations and far-right ideologies like Nazism and apartheid brought criticism from the South African Communist Party in 1984. After the transition to universal suffrage, Tutu's criticism of presidents Mbeki and Zuma brought objections from their supporters; in 2006, Zuma's personal advisor Elias Khumalo claimed that it was a double standard that Tutu could "accept the apology from the apartheid government that committed unspeakable atrocities against millions of South Africans", yet "cannot find it in his heart to accept the apology" from Zuma.

Honours 

Tutu gained many international awards and honorary degrees, particularly in South Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United States. By 2003, he had approximately 100 honorary degrees; he was, for example, the first person to be awarded an honorary doctorate by Ruhr University in West Germany, and the third person to whom Columbia University in the U.S. agreed to award an honorary doctorate off-campus. Many schools and scholarships were named after him. Mount Allison University in Sackville, New Brunswick was the first Canadian institution to award Tutu an honorary doctorate in 1988. In 2000, the Munsieville Library in Klerksdorp was renamed the Desmond Tutu Library. The Desmond Tutu School of Theology at Fort Hare University was launched in 2002.

On 16 October 1984, Tutu was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The Nobel Committee cited his "role as a unifying leader figure in the campaign to resolve the problem of apartheid in South Africa". This was seen as a gesture of support for him and the South African Council of Churches which he led at that time. In 1987 Tutu was awarded the Pacem in Terris Award, named after a 1963 encyclical letter by Pope John XXIII that calls upon all people of good will to secure peace among all nations.

In 1985 the City of Reggio Emilia named Tutu an honorary citizen together with Albertina Sisulu.

In 2000, Tutu received the Common Wealth Award of Distinguished Service.
 
In 2003, Tutu received the Golden Plate Award of the Academy of Achievement presented by Awards Council member Coretta Scott King. In 2008, Governor Rod Blagojevich of Illinois proclaimed 13 May 'Desmond Tutu Day'.

In 2015, Queen Elizabeth II approved Tutu for the honorary British award of the Order of the Companions of Honour (CH). Queen Elizabeth II appointed Tutu as a Bailiff Grand Cross of the Venerable Order of St. John in September 2017.

In 2010, Tutu delivered the Bynum Tudor Lecture at the University of Oxford and became a visiting fellow at Kellogg College, Oxford. In 2013, he received the £1.1m (US$1.6m) Templeton Prize for "his life-long work in advancing spiritual principles such as love and forgiveness". In 2018 the fossil of a Devonian tetrapod was found in Grahamstown by Rob Gess of the Albany Museum; this tetrapod was named Tutusius umlambo in Tutu's honour.

Writings
Tutu is the author of seven collections of sermons in addition to other writings:
 Crying in the Wilderness, Eerdmans, 1982. 
 Hope and Suffering: Sermons and Speeches, Skotaville, 1983. 
The War Against Children: South Africa's Youngest Victims, Human Rights First, 1986. 
 The Words of Desmond Tutu, Newmarket, 1989. 
 The Rainbow People of God: The Making of a Peaceful Revolution, Doubleday, 1994. 
 Worshipping Church in Africa, Duke University Press, 1995. ASIN B000K5WB02
 The Essential Desmond Tutu, David Phillips Publishers, 1997. 
 No Future Without Forgiveness, Doubleday, 1999. 
 An African Prayerbook, Doubleday, 2000. 
 God Has a Dream: A Vision of Hope for Our Time, Doubleday, 2004. 
 Desmond and the Very Mean Word, Candlewick, 2012. 
 The Book of Forgiving: The Fourfold Path for Healing Ourselves and Our World, HarperOne, 2015. 
 The Book of Joy: Lasting Happiness in a Changing World, coauthored by His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama, 2016,