[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Kearny (Washington, D.C.)

assy. No marker.
 Fort Kearny – 11 guns. Located between Forts Reno and DeRussy, at 4900 30th Place. (320-yard perimeter) No remains, no marker.
 Battery Rossell – 8 guns.  Located between Forts Reno and Kearny, at Fessenden Street and Connecticut Ave. No remains, no marker.

Battle of Fort Stevens 

In July 1864, Confederate forces under the command of Lt. Gen. Jubal A. Early mounted a diversionary attack on the ring of forts defending Washington, D.C. in an attempt to relieve the pressure on Gen. Robert E. Lee, whose army was under pressure at Petersburg, VA. Early's Second Corps, Army of Northern Virginia, took up positions in the District, with Breckenridges's Corps located at (modern day) Friendship Heights, Early's Headquarters near (modern day) Chevy Chase, Gordon's Corps stretching across the hills near (modern day) Chevy Chase Village and (modern day) Upper Chevy Chase, and D. H. Hill occupying the area near (modern day) Silver Spring, MD. His supporting Cavalry Artillery was positioned near (modern day) Westbrook, Maryland. Though Fort Kearny itself did not come under direct fire from Confederate forces, at the time it was not certain that the Southern soldiers would not attempt to slip through the American lines in the hilly terrain near Tenleytown.

On July 11, the 22nd Regiment of the Veteran Reserve Corps, commanded by Lt. Col. A. Rutherford, began taking up positions in the rifle pits and trenches in front of the fort. At 7:30 p.m., the Confederate forces of Early's force were seen entrenching north of the Fort Reno-Fort Kearny-Fort DeRussy line.

Accordingly, six companies of the 22nd Regiment were released from their entrenchments and ordered to reinforce the line of Union skirmishers that lay to the north of the fortifications. At 6 a.m. on the morning of July 12, these companies were ordered to advance northward. Doing so, they cleared out a pocket of Confederate sharpshooters that had established themselves on a nearby hilltop and who had been harassing the Union forces overnight. By 7:00 a.m., the 24th regiment of the Veteran Reserve Corps arrived at Fort Kearny to relieve the remaining companies of the 22nd, which were dispatched northward as reserves for the first six companies, which had already advanced two miles north of Fort Kearny.

Those few Confederate sharpshooters would mark the closest advance of any recognized Confederate force to the guns of Fort Kearny. The majority of the fighting would take place to the north and east, near forts Stevens and DeRussy.

The 15th New Jersey Volunteers Return to Fort Kearny and the Defenses of Washington, D.C. 
On July 9, 1864, the 15th NJVI, the builder of Fort Kearny,  along with the rest of the 1st and 2nd Divisions of the 6th Corps, Army of the Potomac, were withdrawn from the siege of Petersburg, VA and ordered to board steamboats on July 11 at City Point, VA, to sail up the Chesapeake "on our way to Maryland as usual... earlier than in '62."

On the evening of July 11, General Early seized the opportunity for a dash into the city. "There was no adequate force to withstand him. Some thousands were gathered, it is true; the odds and ends of dismounted cavalry regiments, and the scrapings from the convalescent camp, together with a thousand or two men from the Quartermaster's Department...With no organization and without discipline, they were hardly better than an armed mob." Authorities in Washington held little hope that the city would not be captured.

But Early hesitated. "Before him was the greatest prize of the war, and in full sight of his troops rose high the dome of the capitol...he paused a night, and his magnificent opportunity was gone."

On July 12, at 11 a.m., the 15th NJVI dropped anchor at "the Sixth Street Wharf in Washington City"  (Modern day Washington Navy Yard) where they were "welcomed by crowds of citizens and officials, who received us as deliverers from a great peril. The arrival brought joy to Washington." From there they, along with the other regiments of the 1st and 2nd Divisions, marched up 6th Street, turned onto 7th Street and on to the "7th Street Road". They marched with colors flying past cheering citizens who hung flags and waved handkerchiefs until they reached Columbian College Hospital (modern day George Washington University Hospital). "Soon we heard the booming of canon before us, and quickly, at the word, fell into ranks, and with accelerated pace hurried toward the scene of action." They were ordered to proceed to Fort Massachusetts (Fort Stevens) to meet General Early's invaders.