[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jacques Desoubrie

Jacques Desoubrie (1922 – 1949) was a double agent who worked for the Gestapo during the German occupation of France and Belgium during World War II. He infiltrated resistance groups, such as the Comet Line, and was responsible for the arrest of several leaders and more than 100 members of organizations (called "lines" or "reseau") helping Allied airmen who had been shot down or crash-landed to evade German capture and escape occupied Europe. After the war he was tried, convicted, and executed in France.

Early life
Desoubrie was born out-of-wedlock 22 October 1922 in Luingne (Mouscron), Belgium. His father was a Belgian doctor, Raymond Desoubrie and his mother, Zoe Note, abandoned him at an early age. He grew up with the doctor in Tourcoing, a French city on the border with Belgium. He trained to be an electrician.

Desoubrie was a short, stocky man with piercing grey eyes set behind a pair of moderately thick-lensed spectacles. He was always smartly dressed, with his light brown hair neatly combed. His smile revealed bright gold fillings in his front teeth and he spoke excellent English. Unlike many collaborators working for the Germans whose primary  motivation was money and privileges, Desoubrie was an enthusiastic supporter of the Nazis, although he was also well paid for his work.

Desoubrie had two children, Jacques (born c. 1941) and Adolph (b. 1943) by his mistress, Marie-Therese Laurent.  He had a close relationship with another woman, Marie-Antoinette Orsini (code named "Colette"), who helped him escort Allied airmen from Brussels to Paris and may have been aware that he was working for the Germans.

World War II

Initial activities
Desoubrie began work with the Gestapo in 1941.  He infiltrated the Resistance group Vérité Française, where he was responsible for the arrest of 100 people, and then the Le Gualès network (after Charles Le Gualès de la Villeneuve, one of its leaders) where 50 people were arrested. He used various aliases including: Jacque Leman, Jean Masson, Pierre Boulain, and Captain Jacques, as he liked to be known.

The Comet Line
In 1943, Desoubrie infiltrated the Belgian and French escape network known as the Comet Line which helped Allied airmen shot down over Belgium. At great risk to themselves, the people working with the Comet Line exfiltrated the airmen from Belgium through France to neutral Spain from where they could be returned to the United Kingdom. 

In 1941 and 1942, the Comet Line had been successful in exfiltrating downed Allied airmen, mostly British and American, out of occupied Belgium and through occupied France to neutral Spain.  However, in November 1942, a large number of the Belgian helpers of the line were arrested and imprisoned by the Gestapo and in January 1943, the Comet Line's founder, Andrée de Jongh was captured by the Germans.  Andrée's father, Frederic de Jongh, who had fled Brussels to Paris, was attempting to put the pieces of the Comet Line back together. A young Belgian who called himself Jean Masson had been successful in escorting airmen from Paris to Belgium. After winning de Jongh's trust, Masson, the name Desoubrie was using, requested that de Jongh and other Comet Line leaders meet him at a train station in Paris to receive six airmen he was escorting from Belgium.  At the train station, Frederic De Jongh and several other Comet line leaders were arrested by French police and turned over to the Germans. Acting on Desoubrie's knowledge of the Comet Line, additional arrests decimated the Comet Line. Masson, however, was not generally known as the betrayer of the Comet Line—except by some of those who had disappeared into German prisons.   

In January 1944, information provided by Desoubrie enabled the Gestapo to arrest the Comet Line's leader, Jean-Jacques Northomb (code named "Franco"), and British intelligence agent, Jacques Legrelle (code named "Jerome'). Desoubrie, now using the name Pierre Boulain, was finally unmasked in Paris on May 7, 1944, by Comet Line guide Michelle Dumon (code named "Lily" and "Michou"). In exposing Boulain, Dumon became vulnerable to the Gestapo and fled France.      

MI9 agents Albert Ancia and Jean de Blommaert asked the Resistance group French Forces of the Interior (FFI) to assassinate Desoubrie. The FFI reported this done on May 22, 1944, but Desoubrie soon re-appeared, so either the FFI lied or the wrong man was killed.