[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Dick Donovan

iative fans showed up to welcome them back to Midway International Airport when they returned to Chicago. Donovan was 9–6 on September 2 but lost his last four decisions to finish 9–10. He appeared in 31 games (29 starts) for the White Sox, posting a 3.66 ERA and striking out 71 in  innings pitched.

The White Sox faced the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1959 World Series. Donovan got the start in Game 3 and held the Dodgers to one baserunner through the first six innings. After getting two outs in the seventh, though, he walked Norm Larker and Gil Hodges on nine pitches, prompting manager Al López to replace him on the mound with Gerry Staley. Staley gave up a single to pinch-hitter Carl Furillo, allowing two runs to score, and Donovan took the loss in the 3–1 defeat. In Game 5, Donovan was called on in the eighth inning with one out after the Dodgers had loaded the bases, with the White Sox clinging to a 1–0 lead. He got Furillo to hit into a pop fly, then got Don Zimmer to fly out to left field before pitching a scoreless ninth to earn the save for the White Sox. Donovan was also used in Game 6, but he gave up three runs (including a home run to Wally Moon) without recording an out as the White Sox lost the game 9–3 and the Dodgers won the World Series.

During spring training in 1960, the Associated Press reported a rumor that the White Sox were looking to trade Donovan and Earl Battey to the Tigers for Paul Foytack. Nothing came of it, and Foytack had a bad year for the Tigers, going 2–11 with a 6.14 ERA. However, Donovan did not fare much better with the White Sox, perhaps due to a sore arm. He posted a 6.75 ERA in his first 10 games (seven starts), never making it past the seventh inning. After only going  innings in a no-decision (eventual loss) against Detroit on June 2, Donovan was removed from the rotation in favor of Russ Kemmerer. He made just one more start for the club all year, a July 29 game against the Senators in which he relinquished three runs in  innings in an eventual 7–5 loss. His ERA improved somewhat in the bullpen, but it was still 5.38, the highest it had been in any of Donovan's full major league seasons. This was not reflected in his won-loss record, as he finished the season with a 6–1 mark. Still, the White Sox left him unprotected from the expansion draft after the season, and Donovan became an original member of the new Washington Senators franchise.

Washington Senators
Sports Illustrated did not expect much from Donovan entering the year; their preview of the first-year Senators stated, "In two seasons, 1957–58, Dick Donovan won 31 games for the White Sox. Perhaps he will remember how he did it." Donovan started the first game in the expansion Senators' history, against his old team, the White Sox. He had a 3–2 lead through the sixth inning, but errors by Gene Woodling and Dale Long allowed a couple unearned runs to score, and the Senators lost 4–3. After the game, someone wished Donovan better luck next time; the angry pitcher nearly spit out of rage. Donovan would often be a tough-luck loser that season, losing his first five decisions of the season by one run, including 1–0 loss to Minnesota on April 23. He did not win a game until June 2, against Kansas City. For his second victory, Donovan threw a shutout in the first game of a June 9 doubleheader against his old team the White Sox, but it took the Senators 10 innings to get him a run to give him the win. Through June 30, he was 3–8, but he went 7–2 the rest of the way. Despite his losing record, he was the Senators' lone representative at both of the year's All-Star Games, pitching two scoreless innings in the first one at Candlestick Park. "Donovan is a real professional,” Senators' manager Mickey Vernon said. “He knows how to pitch and gives you an all-out effort. Dick just doesn’t throw the ball -- he has every pitch planned." His record was just 10–10 at season's end, but his pitching was the best of his career, as his 2.40 ERA (a career-low) led the American League. In  innings, he gave up only 138 hits, leading the AL with a 1.026 WHIP. He finished 17th in MVP voting. Shortly after the season, on October 5, the Senators traded him, Gene Green, and Jim Mahoney to the Cleveland Indians for Jimmy Piersall.