[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brandberg Mountain

of Namibia
The Brandberg is home to some interesting desert flora. Damaraland is well known for its grotesque aloes and euphorbias and the region around the mountain is no exception. The area has many plants and trees that display an alien appearance, due in part to the extreme climatic conditions.

The Brandberg lies within the Karroo-Namib floristic region and some members of the Cape flora are represented.
A checklist of 357 species was published in 1974 by Bertil Nordenstam stating that 11 taxa are endemic to the Brandberg, with a further 28 species endemic to the Kaoko element. 
A large and significant group of species has a disjunction between the Karroo-Namib region in the south, and the arid parts of north-east Africa. These appear to be remnants of a hypothesised arid-track joining the two areas.

Noteworthy species
Aloidendron dichotomum is the largest and arguably the most conspicuous succulent on the mountain, exceeding 5m in height. It is infrequently encountered, mainly on the upper southern slopes.
Cyphostemma currorii is another large succulent of the grape family that is scattered across the mountain.
Myrothamnus flabellifolius, sometimes called 'the resurrection plant'. It is common on some of the upper slopes, and can be made into a tea.
Olea europaea subsp. africana. Not normally associated with such arid regions, this is only known to be found at the peak of the Konigstein.

Brandberg endemics
Euphorbia monteiroi subsp. brandbergensis is a toxic upright succulent found in the upper altitudes. It is occasionally browsed, presumably by dassies (rock hyraxes).
Plumbago wissii has pink flowers.
Hermannia merxmuelleri was previously only known to be found in the Tsisab valley. It is unusual within the genus in having a crested capsule - much like the American species of Hermannia and Hermannia cristata from the summer-rainfall region of South Africa.
Othonna brandbergensis discovered by B. Nordenstam on 29 May 1963.
Hoodia montana
Mentha wissii
Ruellia brandbergensis
Felicia gunellii
Nidorella nordenstamii
Pentzia tomentosa
Scirpus aciformis
Scirpus hystricoides

References

Literature

External links

Rock art of the Upper Brandberg
HBI Bookshop - Harald Pager volumes
3D perspective view at NASA
Timelapse photography of sunset

Mountains of Namibia
Geography of Erongo Region
Namibian savanna woodlands
National Monuments of Namibia
Natural monoliths
Inselbergs of Africa