[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Van Taylor

Nicholas Van Campen Taylor (born August 1, 1972), known as Van Taylor, is an American businessman and Republican politician from Plano, Texas. He was the U.S. representative for Texas's 3rd congressional district from 2019 to 2023, and was first elected in 2018.

The district included much of Collin County, a suburban county north of Dallas. A veteran of the Iraq War, he represented the 8th district in the Texas Senate from 2015 to 2019. He also previously served in the Texas House of Representatives for the 66th district in southwestern Collin County. On March 2, 2022, Taylor admitted to an extramarital affair and announced that he would suspend his reelection campaign and retire at the end of the 117th Congress.

Early life, education, and career 
A seventh-generation Texan, Taylor was born in Dallas. He is a descendant of Humble Oil co-founder Robert Lee Blaffer. He grew up in Midland, Texas, where he attended the Hillander School and San Jacinto Junior High School. He graduated from St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire. With numerous AP credits, he subsequently graduated in three years from Harvard College in Cambridge, Massachusetts, from which he obtained a Bachelor of Arts in history. He earned a Master of Business Administration from Harvard Business School in 2001.

From January 2002 to December 2018, Taylor worked for Churchill Capital Company, a real estate investment banking and principal investment firm, as a real estate investment banker. He previously worked for McKinsey & Company and Trammell Crow Company.

Taylor married Anne Coolidge, a real estate investment manager, in 2004.

Military service 
In Iraq, Taylor was assigned to the Marine Corps' Company C, 4th Reconnaissance Battalion and fought with 2nd Force Reconnaissance Company. As a captain, Taylor led missions in advance of Task Force Tarawa during Operation Iraqi Freedom, which detected and defeated several Fedayeen ambushes. He also participated in a casualty evacuation of 31 wounded Marines, transporting them safely to medical treatment.

Taylor's military decorations include the Navy Commendation Medal with "V", the Combat Action Ribbon, and the Presidential Unit Citation. Taylor left the Marine Corps Reserve as a major.

2006 campaign for U.S. House 

In 2005 and 2006, Taylor ran for Texas's 17th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He won the Republican primary with 54.03% of the vote. With 40.31% of the vote in the general election, he lost to incumbent Democrat Chet Edwards.

Texas House of Representatives

2010 campaign 
On December 2, 2009, Taylor announced his candidacy for the District 66 Texas State House seat. Plano city council member Mabrie Jackson had already resigned from the council to enter the House race. On November 30, 2009, incumbent representative Brian McCall announced that he would not run for reelection. Observers speculated that McCall had told Jackson that he would step down so that she could get a head start in the campaign. McCall also endorsed Jackson as his successor.

The candidates in the March 2 Republican primary were Wayne Richards, Jackson, and Taylor. While Jackson earned the largest number of votes (41%) in the primary, she was shy of the 50% plus one vote required to win the nomination outright. Richards promptly endorsed Taylor, who then defeated Jackson in the April run-off election. McCall left the House seat early, and Taylor was sworn into office on April 20, 2010, by Collin County Judge Keith Self.

Texas State Senate

2014 campaign 
On August 2, 2013, Taylor announced he would seek the Republican Party's 2014 nomination for the Texas Senate, District 8 seat held by Ken Paxton, who was stepping down to run for state attorney general.

Political positions 
Taylor is considered a major ally of the Tea Party movement. He was endorsed by the North Texas Tea Party for his 2014 campaign for Texas Senate, District 8.

In 2017, Taylor introduced legislation to establish a registry of individuals who have been barred from employment at an educational facility. The measure, if adopted, would prevent any school employee, not just administration and faculty, from working at a school if the person is found to have engaged in an improper relationship with a student.

Juneteenth
Taylor was one of two House Republicans to co-sponsor the Juneteenth National Independence Day Act.

Foreign policy
Taylor was among 129 Republicans to oppose President Donald Trump's withdrawal from Syria.

U.S. House of Representatives

Elections

2018