[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hong Kong handover ceremony

ng Kong (used from 1959-1997) were slowly lowered to the British national anthem "God Save the Queen," symbolizing the end of British colonial rule in Hong Kong as very final and last time. A hiatus of exactly twelve seconds occurred between the British and the Chinese anthems.

Tuesday, 1 July 1997

 (00:00:00 Hong Kong Time (same as Beijing Time)) – Sovereignty of Hong Kong is officially transferred from the United Kingdom to the People's Republic of China. The Flag of the People's Republic of China and the new Hong Kong regional flag were simultaneously raised to the Chinese national anthem "March of the Volunteers", to officially mark the beginning of the Chinese rule in Hong Kong. Chinese leader Jiang Zemin gave a speech expressing his optimism for the "one country, two systems" implementation. Grand celebrations begin in the mainland with fireworks displays over Tiananmen Square.
 (00:15 Hong Kong/Beijing Time) – Charles, Prince of Wales and Governor Chris Patten with his family, bid the citizens of Hong Kong farewell at the Tamar site. They boarded HMY Britannia and sailed to Manila in the Philippines before heading back to the United Kingdom. They were escorted by . Prime Minister Tony Blair and other British officials flew out by a British Airways Boeing 777-200ER from Kai Tak Airport to London's Heathrow Airport.
 (01:30 Hong Kong/Beijing Time) – A swearing-in ceremony was held at the HKCEC for various HKSAR officials including Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa, Chief Secretary for Administration Anson Chan, Financial Secretary Donald Tsang and Secretary for Justice Elsie Leung. 
 (02:45 Hong Kong/Beijing Time) – The provisional legislature held its first meeting after the handover to adopt handover-related laws.
 (06:00 Hong Kong/Beijing Time) – 4,000-People's Liberation Army troops from the Hong Kong Garrison arrive by land, air and sea.
 (10:00 Hong Kong/Beijing Time) – The new Hong Kong government hosted a celebration for 4,600-guests. Newly appointed Chief Executive's Tung Chee-hwa makes his inaugural speech. 
 (16:00 Hong Kong/Beijing Time) – Chinese Premier Li Peng makes a speech at a reception in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
 (18:00 Hong Kong/Beijing Time) – Festival Performance by Hong Kong mainland and international celebrities at the Hong Kong Coliseum.
 (19:00 Hong Kong/Beijing Time) – Grand convention and art spectacle begins at the Workers Stadium in Beijing.
 (20:00 Hong Kong/Beijing Time) – The 1997 Hong Kong Spectacular across Victoria Harbour from Causeway Bay to Central, Hong Kong fireworks display begins.

Reactions
In 2005, the British Mail on Sunday revealed Prince Charles's memorandum, of which "Clarence House said only 11 copies were made, circulated to close friends", where he referred to the transfer as the "Great Chinese Takeaway" and the Chinese officials as "appalling old waxworks". In another reported extract, Prince Charles described the ceremony as an "awful Soviet-style" performance and dismissed the speech by Chinese leader Jiang Zemin as "propaganda", complete with loud cheering "by the bussed-in party faithful at the suitable moment in the text." He also ridiculed the People's Liberation Army's goose-steps in the ceremony and claimed his trip on HMY Britannia out of Hong Kong was closely watched by Chinese warships.

The 12-second silence between the British and Chinese anthems has been adapted into the 2019 film My People, My Country.

References

External links
 China News Digest global timeline of the handover

1997 in Hong Kong
1997 in international relations
British Hong Kong
History of Hong Kong
State ritual and ceremonies