[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pericle Felici

. In 1974, he led the discussion group that chose Latin as its common language and he criticized liberals who represented social and political liberation as a pathway to liberation from sin, which he considered a formulation that reversed the truth and disparaged the role of religion and the Church.

In 1978, Pope John Paul II appointed Felici to the 15-member council of the Secretariat for the Synod of Bishops, in likely anticipation of the planned 1980 synod on the family, given the Signatura's responsibility for marriage annulments. Felici was known as an opponent of proposals to ease the granting of annulments. At that Synod in October 1980, when several bishops called for a study of the Church's ban on artificial forms of birth control or a reconsideration of the way the Church taught it, he said he considered the encyclical that established the ban, Humanae vitae, a "closed" document. Felici said: "There is no need of rediscussing it, no need to pay attention to statistics because statistics don't signify anything." In a speech approved by Pope John Paul II, he reported to the Synod that marriage annulments were rapidly increasing and that lower courts were failing to uphold standards and using excuses like "psychological immaturity". He warned that canon law should not be disregarded out of "theological or pastoral concern".

Last years
A master of Latin, he "had a biting sense of humor, which he reportedly used at the expense of cardinals whose Latin was not up to his". He wrote poetry in Latin and was said to prefer to converse in Latin.

He suffered a heart attack in 1980. He collapsed after attending a religious service in Foggia and died there on 22 March 1982. At the time of his death he was a member of several dicasteries, including the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, the Congregation for Bishops, the Sacred Congregation for the Discipline of the Sacraments, and the Congregation for the Causes of Saints.

His diaries of his work for the Second Vatican Council covering the years 1959 to 1966 were published in 2015.

Selected works
 Council Digest: The Basic Message of Vatican Council II (1981)
 Concilio vitam alere: Meditationes super decretis Concilii Vaticani II (1975), with Trento Longaretti
 Il diario conciliare di monsignor Pericle Felici (2015), edited by Vincenzo Carbone and Agostino Marchetto
 Magistero e Autorità nella Chiesa (1969)

Notes

References

Additional sources

External links
  (Pericle Felici announcing the election of Pope John Paul I)
 RAIStoria Elezione Giovanni Paolo II (Pericle Felici announcing the election of Pope John Paul II)

1911 births
1982 deaths
People from Segni
20th-century Italian cardinals
20th-century Italian Roman Catholic titular archbishops
Protodeacons
Pontifical Roman Seminary alumni
Participants in the Second Vatican Council
Prefects of the Apostolic Signatura
Cardinals created by Pope Paul VI