[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Icelandic nationality law

e nationals of all EEA member states, which included the entire EFTA except for Liechtenstein and Switzerland. Liechtenstein later acceded to the EEA in 1995, while Switzerland concluded a separate free movement agreement with the EU that came into force in 2002.

Acquisition and loss of citizenship

Entitlement by birth, descent, or adoption 
Any person born within Iceland to at least one parent who is an Icelandic citizen automatically receives citizenship at birth. Children born overseas are also Icelandic citizens if they are born to a married Icelandic parent, or to an unmarried Icelandic mother. Individuals born overseas to an Icelandic father and foreign national mother who are unmarried are eligible to acquire citizenship by registration before the age of 18; children born to such couples automatically become Icelandic citizens if the parents later marry. Foreign children under the age of 12 adopted in the country by Icelandic citizens are automatically granted citizenship at the time of adoption, while those adopted abroad may become citizens on request by the adopting parents to the Icelandic government. Abandoned children found in the country are considered to be Icelandic unless evidence can be found establishing their possession of an alternate nationality.

Facilitated acquisition for resident children 
Foreign children with a long period of residence in the country may be eligible for a facilitated process of naturalisation. Any foreign national who continuously resides in Iceland from age 11 to 18, or a stateless individual domiciled from age 13 to 18, are entitled to acquire Icelandic citizenship by declaration before age 20. Stateless children born in Iceland who have not acquired Icelandic citizenship, the right to acquire Icelandic citizenship, or any other nationality by age 3 may be granted citizenship at the discretion of the Minister of Justice.

Voluntary acquisition 
Foreigners may become Icelandic citizens by naturalisation after residing in the country for more than seven years. The residency requirement is reduced to three years if an applicant is married to an Icelandic citizen, four years for citizens of other Nordic countries, or five years for recognised refugees. Applicants must demonstrate proficiency in the Icelandic language, be financially self-sufficient, and pass a good character requirement supported by testimonials from two Icelandic citizens. Additionally, they may not have any outstanding tax obligations, have declared bankruptcy, or received state assistance during the preceding three years. Any person who has been fined or incarcerated for a criminal offense, or is a defendant in a pending criminal case, for any conduct that would be deemed a crime in Iceland may be disqualified from naturalisation.

Individuals wishing to become citizens but do not meet all of the naturalisation criteria may nevertheless petition the Althing for a direct grant of citizenship through statutory law. This method of awarding citizenship is not bound by any specific criteria and is routinely considered by the legislature twice per year. Non-naturalised citizens of other Nordic countries are also entitled to acquire Icelandic citizenship by declaration after seven years of residence in Iceland.

Loss and resumption 
Icelandic citizenship may apply to be released from their citizenship by the Minister of Justice, provided that the applicant ordinarily resides overseas and already possesses or is in the process of obtaining another nationality. An Icelandic citizen resident within Iceland cannot be released from their citizenship, unless the Minister determines that there is sufficient reason to do so.

Citizenship may be involuntarily removed from any citizen who was born abroad and has never been permanently resident in Iceland, or resided in the country for any reason that could be interpreted as wishing to remain an Icelandic citizen, before age 22. Such individuals may nevertheless apply to retain their citizenship provided that they do so also before the age of 22. Former citizens who naturalise in another Nordic country and later reacquire domicile in Iceland may reacquire Icelandic citizenship by formally notifying the government of their intention to do so. Individuals who acquired citizenship by birth and resided in the country until age 18 but later loses Icelandic citizenship may regain it by declaration, provided that they are domiciled in Iceland for two years prior to their declaration.

References

Sources

Legislation

External links 
 Iceland Directorate of Immigration

Nationality law
Law of Iceland