[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2000 United States Senate election in New York

age and the ambition and the power she derived from it.  The problem was especially acute among some female demographics; one of her longtime advisers later said, "Women in the educated professional class? They fucking couldn't stand her. We could never figure out why. We had psychologists come in."

Clinton's campaign to all counties, carried by a Ford conversion van, helped to defuse the carpetbagger issue, with many New York residents saying that Clinton "seems like one of us."  She discussed local issues such as price supports for the dairy industry, fares for air travel, college tuition levels, and the brain drain in parts of the state.  Her political positions were well matched to the different constituencies in the state that she targeted.  In a January 2000 appearance on the Late Show with David Letterman, she established a rapport with the host that would continue throughout her Senate years and into her 2008 presidential campaign.  Clinton formally announced her official candidacy in Purchase, New York in February 2000, adopting the simple name "Hillary" for her campaign literature.

Distrustful of the press since her husband's 1992 presidential campaign and her early days as First Lady, she imposed limits on her availability to the press van following her. Associated Press reporter Beth Harpaz later recounted a typical day from this time: "But we'd been told there'd be no 'avail' today, and we'd accepted it. That didn't prevent me from feeling slightly humiliated. I was so worn down and so exasperated by the lack of access and the lack of news in this campaign that I'd given up fighting."

Early Giuliani campaign 
An early January 1999 Marist Institute of Public Opinion poll showed Giuliani trailing Clinton by 10 points.  By January 2000, the Marist poll showed Giuliani up by 9 points.  Giuliani's tactics involved intentionally baiting the Clinton campaign with deliberate overstatements, keeping them off balance and behind in the response cycle.  Giuliani emphasized his depiction of Clinton as a carpetbagger.  He made a one-day visit to Little Rock, Arkansas, where he announced he would fly the Arkansas state flag over New York's City Hall.  When Hillary Clinton visited New York from Washington, he said, "I hope she knows the way. I hope she doesn't get lost on one of the side streets."  Giuliani's campaign prepared a 315-page opposition research dossier that went back to her time at Wellesley College; it included eleven pages of what they termed "Stupid Actions and Remarks".  The Giuliani campaign had no problems raising money, getting over 40 percent of its funds from out-of-state and outraising Clinton overall two-to-one.

The Giuliani campaign showed some structural weaknesses. So closely identified with New York City, he had somewhat limited appeal to naturally Republican voters in Upstate New York.  The Farmersville Garbage Scandal was indicative of his lower levels of support upstate.  By late December 1999, Clinton adapted to Giuliani's psychological warfare, saying in response to one such gambit, "I can't be responding every time the mayor gets angry. Because that's all I would do."  A February 2000 attempt by Giuliani to capitalize on a Clinton campaign event's accidental playing of Billy Joel's suburban drug tale "Captain Jack" led to more ridicule for him than for her.

On March 11, 2000, Giuliani and Clinton met face-to-face for the first time since the campaigning began, at the New York Inner Circle press dinner, an annual event in which New York politicians and the press corps stage skits, roast each other and make fun of themselves, with proceeds going to charity.
Giuliani was on stage in male disco garb spoofing John Travolta in Saturday Night Fever, but also appeared in drag in taped video clips that reworked the "Rudy/Rudia" theme of a past Inner Circle dinner, as well as in an exchange with Joan Rivers that sought to make fun of Clinton.  Other performers' skits made fun of Clinton's Yankees claim and the infidelity of her husband.

The New York Police Department's fatal shooting of Patrick Dorismond on March 15, 2000, inflamed Giuliani's already strained relations with the city's minority communities, and Clinton seized on it as a major campaign issue.  By April, reports showed Clinton gaining upstate and generally outworking Giuliani, who stated that his duties as mayor prevented him from campaigning more.  He gave priority to city duties over campaign activities.  Some Giuliani aides and national Republican figures concluded that his interest in the campaign was flagging, as although he was desirous of winning in political combat against a Clinton, he was by nature an executive personality and the prospect of serving as one of a hundred legislators was unappealing to him.