[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Attacks on civilian convoys in the 2006 Lebanon war

A number of incidents of attack on civilian and UN convoys have been reported. The Israel Defense Forces has disputed involvement in some cases, and has also alleged that no prior coordination took place before some affected convoys set out. These allegations have in turn been disputed. There have also been reports that fear of aerial attack has prevented drivers from transporting humanitarian aid within Lebanon. One estimate two weeks into the conflict placed the number of Lebanese truck drivers who had died as a result of IDF/IAF air strikes on convoys as "dozens".

In their leaflet campaign, the Israelis have warned repeatedly they would consider minivans, trucks and motorcycles as targets. A UN official said: "The minivans are a target for Israel because they can take Katyusha rockets for Hezbollah, so they do not contemplate too long. They just shoot it."

In secret U.S. cables leaked online by Wikileaks, it was discovered that Red Crescent ambulances were used to smuggle weapons to the Hezbollah during its 2006 war with Israel.

Reports of attacks (this is not a comprehensive listing):
 On July 15, according to the UN, families in a convoy fleeing Marwahin were attacked by the IAF when on the coastal road to Tyre killing eighteen civilians including women and children.
 On July 18, the IDF attacked a convoy of ambulances and trucks operated by the United Arab Emirates Red Crescent (UAERC) on the road between Damascus and Beirut. One truck was destroyed, two were damaged and four passenger vehicles were damaged, causing injuries.
 On July 23, a single attack on a civilian vehicle fleeing At Tiri by an IDF missile killed three civilians and wounded sixteen. The Lebanese Red Cross in Tyre said ten vehicles carrying civilians and three or four motorcycles had been attacked by the IDF the same day making a total of forty-one injured (two critically), and three dead in attacks on convoys.
 On July 28, an aid convoy was struck by the IAF as it returned from delivering humanitarian supplies to a Lebanese village. Two people (believed to be German journalists) were reportedly injured in the attack.
 On August 6, it was reported that seventy-three bridges, seventy-two connection roads and 6,800 settlement units had been destroyed by the IDF so far according to the Lebanese Government. Also on August 6, UN troops witnessed the bombing of a civilian vehicle carrying bread as it travelled a few metres ahead of a 15 vehicle long UN convoy north of Tyre. The bombing killed two civilians.
On August 7, five truck drivers were killed and four wounded when IAF jets bombed a convoy of trucks carrying fruits in eastern Lebanon, near the border with Syria.
On August 11, following the billeting of IDF in the Lebanese Army base in Marjayoun a convoy of cars carrying Lebanese army, police and civilians was escorted by the UN away from the area. When the UN left the convoy at the town of Hasbaya, the convoy was bombed nine times by the IDF resulting in seven fatalities and thirty-six wounded.  Head of the Lebanese Red Cross's rescue teams, George Kettaneh, said the convoy had been "deliberately targeted". 
Other incidents: After an IDF leaflet drop on the town of Aitaroun it was reported that a three car convoy of residents fleeing the area, waving white flags, were attacked with bombs "10 meters in front of and behind the convoy, which raced on". On 1 August outside Hermel a pickup truck loaded with cooking gas tanks was attacked after the driver pulled over and exited the vehicle.

Aid convoys have also been prevented from accessing bombed areas to deliver aid because the IDF/IAF could not guarantee their safety from attack, or because the IDF has been engaged in bombing of the roads.

On August 1, it was reported that two out of the four border crossings to Syria had been closed due to previous IAF bombing throughout late July. Israeli Defense Minister Amir Peretz indicated that the attacks were forming part of a campaign against what he reportedly described as: "convoys smuggling weapons across the border into Lebanon" but provided no evidence of smuggling taking place. By the time of the attacks, two of the four border crossings into Syria were closed because of damage- the main Beirut-Damascus highway was described by The Jerusalem Post as "impassable" due to previous attacks.

By August 10, it was reported that all of the road bridges spanning the 90 mile Litani River had been destroyed by IDF bombing.