[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 34th G8 summit

or the G8 to "ban speculation on food prices".

G8 leaders called on those nations with sufficient food stocks to release some of their reserves to help others cope with soaring prices; and the G8's mildly worded communiqué said it was "imperative" to remove export restrictions.

Schedule and agenda

A tentative schedule for the G8 summit was arranged in advance; and contingencies affecting some surrounding events were anticipated by the summit planners.

July 5
Saturday's agenda included the following:
 Peace Walk by activists, including anti-G8 protesters in Sapporo, Hokkaido

July 6
Sunday's agenda included the following:
 Non-government organizations hold "People's Summit" in Sapporo, Hokkaido (to July 8)
 Bush-Fukuda bilateral meeting, US-Japan summit
 Harper-Fukuda bilateral meeting, Canada-Japan summit
 US-Japan leaders dinner

July 7
The first official day of meetings in Tōyako focused on African development issues. The exchange of views were aired in a number of bilateral meetings and in an expanded afternoon session which brought together the G8 leaders and leaders of seven African countries -- Algeria, Ethiopia, Ghana, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa, Tanzania, and the chairman of the African Union Commission. Monday's agenda included the following:
 Merkel-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 Medvedev-Brown bilateral meeting
 Medvedev-Merkel bilateral meeting
 Medvedev-Sarkozy bilateral meeting
 Medvedev-Bush bilateral meeting
 Outreach Working Lunch: G8 leaders + 8 African leaders
 Outreach Working Session: G8 leaders + 8 African leaders
 Mbeki-Bush bilateral meeting
 Mbeki-Fukuda bilateral meeting, South Africa–Japan summit
 Bouteflika-Sarkozy bilateral meeting
 Bouteflika-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 Yar'Adua-Fukuda bilateral meeting, Nigeria-Japan summit
 Brown-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 G8 Social Event (Tanabata-related event)
 G8 Social Dinner

July 8

The second day of meetings in Tōyako focused on the food crisis, oil prices, and climate change.  Tuesday's agenda included the following:

 Merkel-Bush bilateral meeting.
 G8 Morning Working Session
 G8 Working Lunch
 G8 Afternoon Working Session
 Meeting of the "+5" countries (G8+5) in Sapporo ahead of Wednesday' morning session (Brazil, China, India, Mexico, and South Africa)
 Medvedev-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 Berlusconi-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 G8 Working Dinner
 Hu-Lula bilateral meeting
 Hu-Mbeki bilateral meeting
 Hu-Singh bilateral meeting

July 9
The third day of the summit was devoted to crafting summary statements to describe some of the substantive issues which were discussed by the leaders. Wednesday's schedule included two morning sessions. An outreach meeting in the early morning brought together G8 leaders and the leaders of Brazil, China, India, Mexico, South Africa. There was a separate meeting for G8 leaders and leaders of "major economies" -- Australia, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, South Africa, and South Korea. Wednesday's agenda encompassed the following:
 Singh-Bush bilateral meeting
 Outreach Working Session
 Major Economies Meeting
 G8 Working Lunch with participants from Major Economies Meeting
 Hu-Bush bilateral meeting
 Hu-Medvedev bilateral meeting
 Hu-Harper bilateral meeting
 Hu-Sarkozy bilateral meeting
 Press Conference
 Lee-Bush bilateral meeting
 Hu-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 Singh-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 Calderon-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 Lula da Silva-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 Rudd-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 Yudhoyono-Fukuda bilateral meeting
 Singh-Medvedev bilateral meeting
 Singh-Rudd bilateral meeting

NGO response
International development NGOs and networks reacted with a mixture of disappointment and frustration to the final communiqué of the July 2008 G8 summit in Hokkaido, Japan.

60,000 British citizens and 1,000,000 people worldwide had signed petitions calling on G8 leaders to resolve the food crisis, address climate change, deliver funds for water and sanitation, and provide aid for healthcare and education.

However, concrete plans from the G8 to deliver action on these vital concerns were not forthcoming.

Food crisis
The G8 registered their deep concern about the current global food crisis, but did not announce tangible or measurable initiatives for tackling it.

According to World Vision the $10 billion pledged since January will make a difference in the short term. Tearfund see the appointment of a G8 Expert Group to monitor the implementation of food security commitments as a positive step, although the lack of measurable plans adopted means that it is unclear exactly what role this group will play.