[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Port Militarization Resistance

zation Resistance also came under scrutiny, both for its uncompromising stance and for its choice of tactics.  One of PMR's more prolific critics was conservative columnist Michelle Malkin.  Malkin criticized PMR's actions as putting U.S. servicepeople in danger, and accused PMR members of sedition.

One point of criticism levied at PMR during the November 2007 protests at the Port of Olympia involved the participation of children in situations where police were likely to deploy crowd control weapons.  Critics of PMR suggested it was reckless of protest participants to put children in danger.  PMR supporters contended that they were not responsible for the police response, and suggested that children should have the right to participate in the protests.
Another frequent point of criticism of PMR involved the choice to engage in tactics that are disapproved by more moderate anti-war allies and elected officials.

See also

Fusion center
List of anti-war organizations
List of peace activists

References

External links
 Official Port Militarization Resistance Website (Olympia).
 PMR Statement of Nonviolence on Olympia Movement for Justice and Peace (OMJP) website.
 History of PMR actions in 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007, on the Olympia Movement for Justice and Peace (OMJP) website.
  Detailed account of events at the Port of Tacoma – March 2007
 Citizen’s Injunction to Halt the Shipment of Military Material to Iraq – March 11, 2007
 "Port Militarization Resistance" – GNN – March 15, 2007
 Article about Tacoma PMR and Tacoma SDS in The Nation Magazine
 "A Personal Account of the Women's Action at the Port of Olympia" – Daisy Montague, Works In Progress, December 2007
 "The Real Enemy: Silence and Passivity – Reflections on the Port Protests in Olympia" – Zoltan Grossman, Works In Progress, December 2007
 Flickr search for Port Militarization Resistance

Anti–Iraq War groups
Organizations based in Washington (state)
Maritime history of Washington (state)
Organizations established in 2006
2006 establishments in Washington (state)