[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jimbo Fisher

and a win over Notre Dame in the Champs Sports Bowl.

Fisher and the Seminoles experienced further success in 2012. The Seminoles won their first conference title in seven years. The program appeared in a major bowl for the first time in seven years, defeating Northern Illinois in the Orange Bowl. 

One year later, the Seminoles, led by quarterback and Heisman Trophy winner Jameis Winston, rolled through the season undefeated and defeated Auburn in the 2014 BCS National Championship Game to win the school's third national championship and first since 1999.

Although it was not apparent at the time, Fisher's tenure at Florida State plateaued with the 2013 national championship season. A year later, the Seminoles stormed through the regular season undefeated for the second year in a row. However, they suffered a humiliating 59–20 loss to Oregon in the Rose Bowl, the most points Florida State had ever surrendered in a bowl game. The next two years the team had identical 10–3 records with a combined 11–5 record in ACC play. One of those conference losses was a 63–20 rout at the hands of Louisville in 2016, at the time the most points the Seminoles had given up in school history. By comparison, the Seminoles had only lost six conference games in Fisher's first five years.

The beginning of the end for Fisher's tenure came in the 2017 season opener. In the second half of a season-opening 24–7 loss to Alabama, quarterback Deondre Francois tore the patellar tendon in his left knee. Francois' backup, James Blackman, was raw and untested, exposing FSU's several years of recruiting misses at quarterback since Winston's signing. A close loss to NC State a week later knocked them out of the polls for the first time since the middle of the 2011 season. They went on to finish with their first on-field losing record in ACC play since joining the league. They were only able to continue the longest active bowl streak in FBS by defeating Louisiana-Monroe team in a game that had been rescheduled from September due to Hurricane Irma.

A 2019 article in Bleacher Report detailed a number of problems with the culture of the FSU program under Fisher. According to former assistants, the players seemed to lose their drive after the 2013 national championship season. Additionally, Bleacher Report revealed that Florida State had the worst Academic Progress Rate score of any Power Five program, and was actually on the verge of an automatic postseason ban. Reportedly, Fisher had given his assistants a mandate to "keep players eligible" above all else; athletic director Dave Coburn conceded as much. Fisher's successor, Willie Taggart, was stunned at the apparent laissez-faire attitude toward academics when he arrived, and instituted immediate changes. Several former assistants from Fisher's tenure believed the casual attitude toward academics were part of a larger erosion of discipline that gradually led to a sense of entitlement.

In eight years at Florida State, Fisher accumulated an 83–23 record, a 2013 BCS national championship, three ACC conference championships, four Atlantic Division titles (three outright, one shared), four AP Poll top 10 finishes, and four bowl game victories. His .783 winning percentage is the highest in FSU history.

Head coach at Texas A&M
On December 1, 2017, Fisher resigned as the head coach at Florida State University to accept the same job at Texas A&M University. Fisher signed a 10-year, $75 million contract with the Aggies. During an August 2018 ESPN interview, when asked why he chose to take the A&M job, Fisher listed several reasons, including his connection with A&M athletic director Scott Woodward as well as the A&M culture, academics, and facilities.

In his first season at A&M (2018), Fisher coached the Aggies to a 9–4 record and a second-place finish in the SEC West, which was the program's best conference finish since joining the conference in 2012. The season included a 74–72 seven-overtime win over LSU, which was the program's first victory over the Tigers since 1995. The game saw the most combined points scored (146) in a Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) football game. The Aggies defeated the NC State Wolfpack 52–13 in the 2018 Gator Bowl.

Fisher's 2019 Aggies team entered the season ranked 12th, but suffered losses to then-ranked top-10 teams including Clemson, Alabama, Auburn, Georgia, and LSU. Texas A&M became the first team to face three teams ranked #1 at the time of the matchup. The Aggies received an invitation to the 2019 Texas Bowl, where they defeated Oklahoma State 24–21.