[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Globovisión

Globovisión is a 24-hour television news network.  It broadcasts over-the-air in Caracas, Aragua, Carabobo and Zulia on UHF channel 33. Globovisión is seen in the rest of Venezuela on cable or satellite (Globovisión has an alliance with DirecTV, where it can be seen on channel 110) and worldwide from their website. Some of Globovisión's programs can be seen in the United States on cable network Canal Sur and TV Venezuela, a channel offered in DirecTV's Para Todos package. In Latin America, Globovision can be seen in Argentina, Colombia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay and other territories as Aruba, Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados and Curaçao in DirecTV's package (channels 293 and 724).

History
On December 1, 1994, Luis Teófilo Núñez Arismendi, Guillermo Zuloaga Núñez, Nelson Mezerhane Gosen, and Alberto Federico Ravell Arreaza, inaugurated Globovisión, channel 33, the first 24-hour news network in Venezuela to broadcast over-the-air.  Currently,  Globovisión is broadcast over the air in Caracas, Aragua, Carabobo and Zulia.  Globovisión's programming is also carried by 95 percent of the nation's cable systems. On February 17, 2010, Ravell, general director of the channel, was dismissed from his post by board of directors of Globovision due to "differences with its partners". Ravell said he had to " sacrifice himself leaving office for the channel wasn't sold and falls into the hands of Government of Hugo Chavez".

In 2009, pro-government leader Lina Ron led an armed attack on Globovisión, where she and attackers threw tear gas into the headquarters of the news organization that left injured multiple individuals inside and threatened its security with firearms.

In 2013, Globovisión was sold to an economist and businessman with connections to the Venezuelan government, Juan Domingo Cordero, who also runs the insurance company La Vitalicia. Raúl Gorrín, one of the owners, maintained close connections with both the government and the opposition according to The New York Times.

On 8 January 2019, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the United States Department of the Treasury imposed sanctions against Gorrín and six other Venezuelans, accusing them of being part of "a significant plot of corruption" through the use of the foreign currency exchange system. Following the announcement, Globovisión and 23 other companies were added to the Specially Designated Nationals list of OFAC. All the assets subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are frozen and American citizens are prohibited from conducting economic transactions with them.

International
Overseas, Globovisión has affiliations with CNN en Español, RCN, Canal N, Panamericana Televisión, Canal Sur, Canal 13, Todo Noticias, Monte Carlo Televisión, Canal 4, Canal 8, and Ecuavisa.