[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Movement Against Illegal Immigration

hemselves loudly when prayers were to be conducted at the Monument to the Heroes of Plevna. Estimates of participants in the fighting range from 50 to 200; other groups participating included the Slavic Union, the Russian Public National Union (RONS), and the "St. George" youth group ("георгиевцы").

On 26 June 2007, the DPNI announced the formation of armed "People's Self-Defense" groups to defend "indigenous citizens" against "the aggressive actions of criminal migrants." The groups will be trained in hand-to-hand fighting and are required to obtain "legal hunting weapons and handguns." In April 2005, the DPNI had announced creation of "mobile fighting groups", composed of cell networks of five persons each, whose members would have access to automobiles and legal weapons. The 2005 announcement cited a "possible worsening of the internal political situation in the Russian Federation and the likelihood of mass disorders and aggressive actions by foreign states."

Ban 
By the verdict of the Dorogomilovsky District Court of Moscow dated 28 May 2009, the leader and head of the DPNI Alexander Potkin (Belov) was found guilty of committing a crime under Part 1 of Art. 282 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation. The court found that, on Moscow DPNI leader's instructions, persons unidentified by the investigation attacked citizens of the Republics of Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, causing bodily harm.

The Movement Against Illegal Immigration was banned by the Moscow City Court on April 18, 2011. The organization has been accused of igniting interethnic hatred. However, it did not enter into force across Russia because it was appealed. At the same time, the 18 February 2011 decree of Moscow Chief Prosecutor about the suspension of the activities of the organization is in force. In August 2011, the High Court of Russian Federation has issued a federal ban of the organization.

See also 

 Racism in Russia
 Immigration to Russia
 Russian nationalism
 Ethnic minorities in Russia

References

Further reading

External links
Official website of the Movement Against Illegal Immigration
Galina Kozhevnikova. Autumn - 2006: Under the Kondopoga Banner, SOVA Center, 4 January 2007.

Video
Civil Disorder in Kondopoga, Russia
Russian March (4/11/06) I
Russian March 4/11/06) II
Russian Patriots
How internal conflict in DPNI turns into fight

Anti-Asian sentiment in Russia
Anti-Caucasus sentiment in Russia
Anti–Central Asian sentiment in Russia
Anti-immigration politics in Russia
Politics of Russia
Illegal immigration to Europe
Far-right politics in Russia
Immigration to Russia
Russian nationalist organizations
Xenophobia
2002 establishments in Russia
2011 disestablishments in Russia
Political extremism in Russia