[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Crop Trust

tainable Development Goals.

In 2018, the Crop Trust signed the first long-term funding agreement with the IRRI genebank, pledging to fully fund essential operations in perpetuity. The Crop Trust celebrated its 15th anniversary in 2019 and crossed the USD 300 million threshold in the endowment fund.

In 2020, Stefan Schmitz was appointed Executive Director.  With support from the German government, the Crop Trust launched the Seeds4Resilience Project project in 2020. The project will upgrade five national genebanks in sub-Saharan Africa. In February 2020, the Svalbard Global Seed Vault reached one million accessions of seed samples for more than 6,000 species.

Management

The Crop Trust is headquartered in Bonn, Germany, after relocating there from Rome, Italy.

The executive board is chaired by Catherine Bertini. The Crop Trust's Donors' Council is chaired by Dr. Taek-Ryoun Kwon of South Korea.

Main donors include: Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and the Grains Research and Development Corporation (Australia). A number of developing countries have also provided support, including Egypt, Ethiopia and India. Further contributions have been received from private corporations, foundations, industry associations, and from private individuals.

Leadership

Executive Director
2004-2005 – Geoff Hawtin (Interim)

2005-2012 – Cary Fowler

2013-2019 – Marie Haga

2020–present – Stefan Schmitz

Executive Board Chair
2007–2012 – Margaret Catley-Carlson

2013–2017 – Walter Fust

2018–2019 – Amb. Timothy Fischer

2019–2021 – Sir Peter Crane

2022–present – Catherine Bertini

Grants

Since its establishment, the Crop Trust has funded work in over 80 countries, and made its first grant for long-term conservation of a collection in late 2006. By 2011, the Crop Trust had established in-perpetuity support (i.e. grants funded through the Crop Trust's endowment) for collections of 15 crops: rice, cassava, wheat, barley, faba bean, pearl millet, maize, forages, banana, aroids, grass pea, sorghum, yam and lentil.

In 2007, the Crop Trust began a global initiative to rescue threatened, high-priority collections of crop diversity in developing countries and to support information systems to improve their conservation and availability. These efforts included providing support to developing countries and international agricultural research centers to deposit shipments of seed samples in the Svalbard Global Seed Vault for safety duplication purposes.

In 2010, the Crop Trust launched a global 10-year program to find, gather, catalog and save the wild relatives of 22 major food crops. These wild species contain untapped diversity to help address future challenges to agriculture.

Svalbard Global Seed Vault 

The Crop Trust joined the Government of Norway and the Nordic Gene Bank in the 2008 establishment of the Svalbard Global Seed Vault, a "fail-safe" facility located at Svalbard, Norway. The Seed Vault provides long-term storage of duplicates of seeds conserved in genebanks around the world. This provides security of the world’s food supply against the loss of seeds in genebanks due to mismanagement, accident, equipment failures, funding cuts, and natural disasters. It is designed to hold the seeds of some 4.5 million samples of different varieties of agricultural crops. Primarily through the endowment fund, the Crop Trust provides most of the annual operating costs for the facility. With support from donors, the Crop Trust also assists selected genebanks in packaging and shipping seeds to the Seed Vault.

References

External links 
Crop Trust website
 Vimeo.com: "Securing Our Food Forever" — Crop Trust video.

Agricultural organisations based in Germany
Biodiversity
Seed associations
Sustainable agriculture
International charities
Non-profit organisations based in North Rhine-Westphalia