[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Memphis National Cemetery

care. The dead from these hospitals, initially interred in hospital and private cemeteries in the Memphis area, were subsequently reinterred in the Memphis National Cemetery after its establishment in 1867. After the war, several battlefield cemeteries were transferred to Memphis National Cemetery.

Visitors to Memphis National Cemetery will note several areas, especially in sections A, B, C, D, E, H, J, and K, wherein are government headstones and markers bearing no name. These are the graves of Civil War unknowns, some 8,866 in number, the second largest number of unknowns in any of the national cemeteries presently under the jurisdiction of the Department of Veterans Affaires. The existence of so large a number of interments of unknowns in a single cemetery may be attributed in large part to the fact that Memphis National Cemetery was not established until 1867, two years after the close of the Civil War. During the interval from the initial burial of these decedents to the time of reinterment, many of the crude wooden burial markers placed at the graves had been removed, or destroyed through exposure to the elements. Further, as there was no mandatory use during the Civil War of any form of personal identification, such as the present day identification tags required to be worn at all times by military personnel, means of identification of disinterred remains were extremely limited.
By 1870, three years after the date of its establishment, Memphis National Cemetery had become the burial site for the remains of some 13,965 Civil War decedents, and was ranked 5th in number of interments among the 73 national cemeteries then under control of the War Department. Members of Civil War volunteer organizations from twenty-eight states of the United States, as well as members of the United States Army, the United States Navy, United States Colored Troops, and the Mississippi River Marine Brigade are interred within the boundaries of this cemetery. Some five hundred and thirty-seven Civil War regiments are represented among the honored dead interred here at Memphis National Cemetery.

Over the years since the establishment of Memphis National Cemetery, changes in national cemetery legislation and regulations have extended the categories of persons eligible for interment in national cemeteries. Memphis National Cemetery has been expanded and now comprises a total area of 44.15 acres. Within its boundaries honored burial has been accorded to those members of the Armed Forces who have participated in the Civil War, the Spanish–American War, World War I, World War II, the Korean War, and the war in Vietnam. As of November 2017, an approximate number of 46,000 interments had been made in this cemetery.

The flag of the United States is proudly flown at Memphis National Cemetery, honoring the lives and deeds of the known and the unknown, who over these many years, answered the call of duty in their nation's service.
The Memphis National Cemetery is a closed National Cemetery and can only perform subsequent in-ground interments. The Cemetery does now have a Columbarium for the initial and subsequent interment of cremated remains of member of the Armed Forces of the United States whose last active service terminated honorably, and for their eligible dependents.

Steamboat Sultana disaster

On the night of April 26, 1865, the steamboat Sultana, overloaded with Union soldiers who had recently been liberated from Confederate POW camps, exploded due to a boiler rupture on the Mississippi River several miles north of Memphis. Many of the dead from that accident are buried in Memphis National Cemetery.

Notable monuments 

 The Illinois Monument, a granite and bronze sarcophagus by sculptor Leon Hermant, dedicated in 1929.
 The Minnesota Monument, a granite monument erected in 1916.

Notable interments 
 Medal of Honor recipients
 Private James H. Robinson (?–1864), for action during the Civil War, interred in Section H, Grave 4131.
 Others
 Winfield S. Cunningham (1900–1986), US Naval Officer, recipient of the Navy Cross for action at Wake Island.
 George W. Grider (1912–1991), U.S. Representative
 Ike Pearson (1917–1985), Major League Baseball player

References

External links 

 National Cemetery Administration
 Memphis National Cemetery
 
 
 

United States national cemeteries
Cemeteries on the National Register of Historic Places in Tennessee
Historic American Landscapes Survey in Tennessee
Cemeteries in Memphis, Tennessee
1867 establishments in Tennessee
National Register of Historic Places in Memphis, Tennessee
Cemeteries established in the 1860s