[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Josh Walker (footballer, born 1989)

footballer. He came in and I knew he wasn't going to walk straight into the side but I was hoping he was going to develop and evolve and give us another option down the right-hand side.However, it hasn't quite worked out and he has gone back to his parent club which is the best thing for everybody."

Scunthorpe United
On 13 January 2012 Walker joined Scunthorpe United on a one-month emergency loan deal. Walker's move to Scunthorpe United permanently was changed to Loan because Fifa's rules which mean players can only play for two clubs in a season apply for standard but not emergency loans. Walker scored on his debut for Scunthorpe United in a 1–1 draw against Colchester United. His debut impressed manager Alan Knill and he told the club official website: "Josh is a good player and fits in well in there. We lost [Manchester United loanee] Oliver Norwood, but we have Josh, who is a bit more streetwise and very good on the ball." On 18 February, Walker scored his second goal and set up a goal for Jon Parkin in a 3–1 win over Leyton Orient. On 20 February, Walker extended his loan spell at Scunthorpe for another month after making five appearances and scoring twice. On 6 March, Walker provided a double assist in the late second half for David Mirfin and Garry Thompson respectively in a 2–1 win over Oldham Athletic. On 31 March, Walker scored his third goal and set up a goal for Jordan Robertson in a 4–1 win over Chesterfield.

On 19 April 2012, Walker signed for the club on a permanent basis on free transfer, which took effect on 1 July. He was injured during the latter part of the 2012–13 season at the end of which his contract would expire.

Gateshead
Walker signed for Conference Premier side Gateshead on 17 July 2013. He made his debut on 10 August 2013 against Kidderminster Harriers. Walker scored his first goals for the club on 7 September 2013, scoring both goals in a 2–1 home win against Hereford United. He again scored a brace, this time netting in a 3–1 victory against Salisbury City. He scored the final goal for the club against Lincoln City. At the end of the 2013–14 season, Walker was released by the club. He ended the season scoring six goals in 34 matches.

Bengaluru
On 7 July 2014, Walker signed for reigning I-League champions Bengaluru FC, on a one-year contract qualifying as their club's "marquee player". He said "I am very excited to start this chapter of my career with the champions of India." Walker later asserted that the quality of Indian football was "a lot better than what I imagined". In his first season with the Indian club, the club won the Federation Cup defeating Dempo in the final. On 18 March 2015, he scored his first goal for the club, in an AFC Cup match against Warriors, scoring a penalty in the 36th minute. He scored his first I-League goal, by opening the scoring of a 4–1 victory over Sporting Clube de Goa. Walker extended his contract for a further year with Bengaluru at the end of the season, which will keep him at the club until the end of the 2015–16 I-League season.

In January 2016, Walker was injured during an off season training session, with Goal reporting that it would take five months for him to recover. Missing the first two matches against Salgaocar and Aizawl FC, Bengaluru FC owner Parth Jindal confirmed his injury through his Twitter account. He was subsequently released and replaced by Irish midfielder Michael Collins, his former teammate at Scunthorpe.

Edinburgh City
On 4 January 2017, Walker, who was still recovering from the injury sustained while playing in India, signed an 18 month long deal with Scottish League Two club Edinburgh City. He scored his first goal for the club in a league match against Montrose in February. The goal was his fifteenth league goal of his career. He said that the goal was one of the better goals of his career. Walker was appointed as the club captain in May. He also signed a contract that was due to keep him with the club until May 2020. Ongoing knee injuries meant that he retired from playing football in August 2019.

International career
Walker captained the under-15 team for the first time in October 2004 against Wales under-15, and also scored a goal in the match.
He captained England's under-16 and under-17 and under-20 teams. He was also England's captain in 2009 FIFA U-20 World Cup.

Career statistics

Honours
Bengaluru FC
 Federation Cup : 2014–15

References

External links