[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kimmie Weeks

ield offices in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Uganda. YAI's programs are strategically developed to break the cycles of violence and poverty.

Major accomplishments of Youth Action International include providing services to over 150,000 people in West and East Africa since 2005.

Recognition and awards

Weeks remains a vocal advocate for children's rights around the world.  His annual speaking tour reaches more than 40,000 people.  He has also been selected for many awards, including the MLK Peace Medal, the 1998 Goodwill Games Medal for heroism in the face of adversity, and the 2007 Golden Brick Award.

On July 26, 2007, the President of Liberia, Her Excellency Ellen Johnson Sirleaf,  bestowed Liberia's highest honor on Weeks for "sacrificial and dedicated services to the people of Liberia."  The President formally decorated him as Knight Grand Commander in the Humane Order of African Redemption during programs marking Liberia's 160th Anniversary in Grand Bassa County, Liberia. Weeks became one of the youngest recipients of Liberia's highest honor.

In a special proclamation marking the conferral of the distinction, President Sirleaf wrote:

Now therefore, in recognition of the outstanding success you have so laudably achieved so far in your career, and for the pride you bring to all Liberians, I, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, by virtue of the power vested in me as Grand Master of the Order of Distinction of the Republic of Liberia do hereby admit you, Kimmie L. Weeks into the HUMANE ORDER OF AFRICAN REDEMPTION with the grade of KNIGHT GRAND COMMANDER.

By Presidential request, Weeks also served as National Orator for programs marking Liberia's Independence Day Celebration.  He spoke on the topic "Liberia at 160: Reclaiming the Future".  The 30-minute speech, which was hailed by local newspapers as "one of the most powerful and moving speeches in Liberian history".

In 2007, his photo and bio appeared on 20 million bags of Doritos. Weeks is the subject of a major photo exhibit, the book Peace in our Lifetime, and many smaller publications.

In 2008 and 2009, he received the Liberia National Excellence Award, and the Wangari Mathai Global Citizenship Award.

In 2011, Amherst College conferred an honorary doctorate degree on Weeks, making him the youngest person in the school's history to receive an honorary degree.

He was named a Community hero by The My Hero Project.

Current

Kimmie Weeks currently serves as Executive Director of Youth Action International.  The organization provides education, health care and economic empowerment for children and youth in post-war African countries.  Youth Action International has impacted more than 150,000 lives since 2005. Weeks is also a member of the World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council and a member of the Young Global Leaders Program. Weeks also serves in a part-time capacity as Chief Corporate Communications Strategist for Liberia second largest GSM company called Cellcom.  In 2012, Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf appointed Weeks as Chairman of the Board of Directors for the Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation.  The primary immediate task of the corporation is to provide safe drinking piped water to more than 800,000 Liberians in the capital for the first time since 1990.

References

External links
 Kimmie Weeks official website
 Youth Action International website
 Youth Action International Youtube channel
 4Real TV Series
 Kimmie Weeks calls US Attention to Food Crisis
 Man With a Mission: Visitor to share African dreams, nightmares
 British and American Team arrived in Sierra Leone to assess creation of Women Centre

 Kimmie Weeks discusses aid

1981 births
Living people
Liberian expatriates in the United States
Amherst College alumni
Children's rights activists
Liberian activists
Northfield Mount Hermon School alumni
People from Monrovia
Americo-Liberian people
People of Americo-Liberian descent
Liberian refugees
Glasgow High School (Delaware) alumni