[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Lucas Biglia

inal squad.

Senior career

In October 2009, Biglia hoped his performance at Anderlecht could lead him to get his first call up by then Manager Diego Maradona, but it never happened. It wasn't until in November 2010 when Biglia was called up by Batista for the match against Brazil, but did not play.

In February 2011, Biglia was called up again, a decision that surprised him. Unlike his first call up, his first match for Argentina, in a friendly match against Portugal, which saw them win 2–1. During the same year, Biglia was included by manager Sergio Batista ahead of the Copa América tournament despite an injury, he sustained at Anderlecht, could threaten his chance to play in the tournament. At Copa América tournament, Biglia went on to make two brief substitute appearances as the hosts lost to Uruguay in the quarter-finals on a penalty shootout.

On 2 June 2014, Biglia was called up for the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil. A late substitute in every match up to that point, he was an undisputed starter from the quarter-finals onward, as his nation lost 0–1 to Germany in the final. Biglia also appeared as a starter in five of Argentina's six 2015 Copa América matches, including the final where La Albiceleste lost in a penalty shootout to hosts Chile.

On 17 November 2015, Biglia scored his first and only international goal in a 1–0 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifying win over Colombia in Barranquilla.

Biglia was named to Gerardo Martino's 23-man Argentine side that reached the Copa América Centenario Final. He played in the final of the competition against Chile for the full 120-minutes, which ended in a 0–0 draw after extra-time; in the resulting penalty shoot-out, his penalty was saved by Claudio Bravo, and Chile went on to win 4–2 after netting the next kick. Following the end of the tournament, Biglia was among seven players considering retirement after Lionel Messi announced his retirement, but this never happened.

In May 2018, Biglia was named by manager Jorge Sampaoli in Argentina's final 23-man squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. He made his only appearance in the competition in his team's opening group match against Iceland on 16 June, which ended in a 1–1 draw; he was replaced in the second half by Éver Banega. On 30 June 2018, after Argentina's 4–3 loss to France in the round of 16 of the tournament, Biglia announced his retirement from international duty with 58 caps and one goal.

Style of play
Nicknamed El Principito (Spanish for "Little Prince"), due to his diminutive stature, Biglia is usually deployed as a defensive midfielder, where he normally functions as deep-lying playmaker in midfield; during his time with Belgian side Anderlecht, his playing style drew comparisons with compatriot Fernando Redondo. Although Biglia is competent defensively, due to his work-rate and aggression, as well as his ability to read the game and break down opposing attacks, he is also known for his ability to dictate the tempo of his team's play in midfield or create goalscoring opportunities after winning back the ball, courtesy of his good technique, vision, passing accuracy, and anticipation, as well as his personality, temperament and leadership. He is also known for his ball-striking ability from outside the area, and is an accurate free kick and penalty kick taker. His role has also been likened to that of a metodista ("centre-half," in Italian football jargon), due to his ability to dictate play in midfield as well as assist his team defensively.

Personal life
On 20 December 2011, De Standaard reported that Biglia had married his childhood friend, fellow Argentine Cecilia Ambrosio. The wedding took place at The Place Tokeh Sands in Freetown, Sierra Leone. Together, the couple has a daughter (born in 2009) After three years living in Belgium, Biglia was granted Italian citizenship through his Italian heritage.

During his early career at Anderlecht, Biglia earned a nickname: "the little prince", as well as being as a perfectionist and notorious brooder. In March 2008, Biglia, along with Frutos and Pareja, were involved in a humanitarian aid to help disadvantaged young people in Argentina.

However, in July 2008, Biglia rushed back to Argentina after his father died of a heart attack. He spoke out for the first time with Het Nieuwsblad in October 2008, saying that losing his father affected him. Biglia has an older brother, Christian, also a footballer, who went on a trial at Royal Antwerp in August 2009, but the trial was unsuccessful.

In June 2009, Biglia was reportedly in hospital in his homeland, claiming that he had H1N1 (Swine flu) virus, but test revealed at the end that he did not.

Career statistics

Club

International

Score and result list Argentina's goal tally first, score column indicates score after Biglia goal.

Honours
Anderlecht
Belgian Pro League: 2006–07, 2009–10, 2011–12, 2012–13
Belgian Cup: 2007–08
Belgian Super Cup: 2006, 2007, 2010, 2012