[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# China Communications Construction Company

money laundering. Trial documents revealed the flow of funds from CCCC through two Hong Kong subsidiaries, Multi Strategic Investment Limited and True Dragon Properties Limited, to Kuwait entities. The funds were proceeds of loans by the Export-Import Bank of China to finance the East Coast Railway.

Philippines 
In 2009, the World Bank Group debarred CCCC and CRBC until 2017 for fraudulent practices under Phase 1 of the Philippines National Roads Improvement and Management Project. Together with five other companies, CCCC and CRBC had colluded to enter non-competitive, artificially high bid prices.

U.S. sanctions 
In August 2020, the United States Department of Commerce placed several CCCC subsidiaries on the Bureau of Industry and Security's Entity List for their construction work to militarize artificial islands in the South China Sea. The same month, the United States Department of Defense released the names of additional “Communist Chinese military companies” operating directly or indirectly in the United States. CCCC was included on the list. In November 2020, Donald Trump issued an executive order prohibiting any American company or individuals from owning shares in companies, including CCCC, that the U.S. Department of Defense has listed as having links to the People's Liberation Army. In December 2020, the United States Department of Commerce added CCCC itself to the Entity List.

See also 

 Infrastructure-Based Development
 Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank

References

External links
 

Construction and civil engineering companies of China
Railway construction companies of China
Government-owned companies of China
Construction and civil engineering companies established in 2005
Chinese companies established in 2005
Companies in the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
Companies in the CSI 100 Index
Companies listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange
Companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange
H shares
Defence companies of China