[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lithuanian State Border Guard Service

omatic effort to conclude and sign a treaty on the state border with Belarus on 6 February 1995. A similar treaty was signed with Poland the same year. The treaty on delimitation of the state border between Lithuania and the Russian Federation was signed during a summit in Moscow on 24 October 1997.

The border police was re-structured in 1997, 2000 and on 22 February 2001, when the government decided to re-organise the Border Police Department into the State Border Guard Service at the Ministry of the Interior. When preparing for the re-organisation, a large number of legal acts were adopted which regulate the activity of the State Border Guard Service. Of these, the most prominent are the Law on the State Border Guard Service and the Law on the State Border and Protection Thereof. Prior to the re-organisation, the status of the Border Police Department and service in the border police were regulated by the laws on the police, on state service and others as well as by the Statute of Service in the System of the Interior. These legal acts were more about the general activity of the police. After the re-organisation was complete, the State Border Guard Service began to perform its border guard functions starting 1 May 2001.

Lithuania became a member of the European Union on 1 May 2004 and of the Schengen Area on 21 December 2007. The Lithuanian border with Kaliningrad Oblast (Russia) and Belarus became the external border of the EU and the Schengen Area. The passport control on the Latvian and Polish borders was eliminated while the checks on the Russian and Belarusian borders was strengthened.

Structure

Districts
VSAT is divided into the following districts:
 Vilnius Frontier District 
 Ignalina Frontier District 
 Varėna Frontier District 
 Pagėgiai Frontier District 
 Coast Guard District

Aviation unit
The Aviation Unit of the Lithuanian State Border Guard Service received new helicopters to patrol the European Union external border. Available aircraft in service:

Gallery

See also
Military of Lithuania
European Border and Coast Guard Agency

References

External links
 Official page of State Border Guard Service of Lithuania (English)

Border guards
Law enforcement agencies of Lithuania
Borders of Lithuania
1990 establishments in Lithuania
Ministry of the Interior (Lithuania)