[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Langdon-Davies

John Eric Langdon-Davies  (18 March 1897 – 5 December 1971) was a British author and journalist. He was a war correspondent during the Spanish Civil War and the Soviet-Finnish War. As a result of his experiences in Spain, he founded the Foster Parents' Scheme for refugee children in Spain, which is now the aid organisation Plan International.

Author of books on military, scientific, historical and Spanish (including Catalan) subjects, Langdon-Davies has been described as "an accomplished war correspondent" and "a brilliant populariser of science and technology".

Early life 
Langdon-Davies was born in Eshowe, Zululand (now in South Africa) in 1897. He was the son of the teacher Guy Langdon-Davies (died 1900), who described himself as "a Huxleyan, a Voltairean and a Tolstoyan pacifist." Langdon-Davies came to England at the age of six and attended Yardley Park prep school and Tonbridge School (he disliked the latter intensely). His first published work was an article entitled "The Hermit Crab", which appeared on the young people's page of The Lady in 1910.

In 1917, he published The Dream Splendid, a book of poetry inspired by the beauty of nature. According to one critic, it showed "all the young poet's faults"; to another, "Mr Langdon-Davies's verse owes nothing to the transient excitements of the hour", referring to the fact that it was not influenced by war fever. The Times Literary Supplement said it was "the outcome of a brooding imagination intensely affected by open-air influences ... and expressing itself with a real sense of style".<ref>TLS, 11 October 1917</ref>

When called up in 1917 he declared himself a conscientious objector and refused to wear uniform. This resulted in a short term in prison before being given a medical discharge. He intended to continue his academic career at St John's College, Oxford, but one of his three scholarships was removed consequent upon his military record. Another, tenable only by a single man, was removed when he married Constance Scott, a history graduate from Somerville College, in 1918. The resulting financial situation forced him to abandon his university career, which ended with a diploma in anthropology and history.

 1918–1936 
In 1919 Langdon-Davies wrote Militarism in Education, published by Headley Brothers, a study of the effect of the militarist and nationalist content of various educational systems. He stressed the importance of environment and early influences in the education of the young, compared with heredity. During this period he was moving between London, Oxford, Berkshire, Southampton, and Ireland, where he came to know leading figures in the political world.

He also made his first visit to Catalonia, after which, in 1921, he and Connie, with their two small sons, settled for more than two years in the Pyrenean village of Ripoll, where he met groups of left-wing intellectuals and Catalan nationalists. Here, reading a lot of poetry and much influenced by Arthur Waley's translations of A Hundred and Seventy Chinese Poems, he wrote a small book of verse, Man on Mountain, which was printed in Ripoll and published by Birrell and Garnett in 1922. Since the letter w is more widely used in English than in Catalan, the local printer was obliged to send to Barcelona for extra supplies. The new w, however, turned out to be marginally larger than the originals so a slight discrepancy appears on most pages, making the book a collectors' item. He returned to London and spent another period travelling between England, the United States and Catalonia. The Daily News sent him to Barcelona in 1923 to report on the coup d'état by Miguel Primo de Rivera, which he evaluated as comparable to the Irish question.