[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yossi Dahan

iculturalism). An updated, extended edition of the book, with a new chapter on justice and democracy, was published in Hebrew by the Open University in 2013.

Dahan wrote the postscript to the Hebrew translation of Rawls’s 1985 Justice as Fairness, published in 2011 by Books in the Attic and Miskal.

Since 2008, Dahan is involved in a series of studies on workers' rights in international labor law in collaboration with Dr. Hanna Lerner of the Tel Aviv University Department of Political Science and Dr. Faina Milman-Sivan of the Haifa University Department of Law. This normative and empirical research project develops a theory of shared responsibility and principles of responsibility allocation designed to justify the protection of workers'  rights in global chains of productions controlled by multinational corporations. The project is funded by the Israeli Science Fund (ISF). Hitherto, it has led to the publication of several articles in legal and philosophical journal. In early 2015, a collection of articles edited by the researchers will be published by Cambridge University Press under the title International Labor Rights and Global Justice. In 2009, together with Dr. Milman-Sivan, Dahan also edited a special edition the Law & Ethics of Human Rights journal, titled “Labor Rights in an Era of Globalization”.

In the course of his studies on education, Dahan published a series of articles on equal opportunities and privatization in Israeli and international journals. Among other things, he published several articles together with Professor Yossi Yonah of Ben Gurion University in the Negev describing and critiquing ideological and normative aspects of the neoliberal reforms carried out since the 1980s in education systems in Israel and many other countries.

In 2018 Dahan published the book 'On Educational Justice, Privatization, and the Aims of Education' the book was published by Van Leer institute and Hakibuoz Hameuchad. The book examines from a normative and empirical perspective different approaches to educational justice, different conceptions of privatization and their policy applications, and reviews different approaches to the questions of what should be the aims of an educational system in a democratic society.

Finally, together with Professor Henry Wasserman, Dahan edited To Invent a Nation – a collection of articles on modern theories of nationality. The book was published in Hebrew in 2006 by the Open University as part of a series in the course Issues in the Study of Nationalism, together with Hebrew translations of Benedict Anderson’s Imagined Communities, Ernst Gellner’s Nations and Nationalism, and Partha Chatterjee’s Nationalist Thought and the Colonial World: A Derivative Discourse.

Books
On Educational Justice, Privatization, and the Aims of Education.
This book was published in Hebrew by Van Leer institute and Hakibuoz Hameuchad in 2018.

Theories of Social Justice
This book was published in Hebrew by the Ministry of Defense Publications in 2007. An updated, extended edition of the book, with a new chapter on justice and democracy, was published in Hebrew by the Open University in 2013. This book is a key text in the university’s Contemporary Socioeconomic Justice Theories course.

 Hebrew review of the book by Dr. Shlomi Segal in Iyyun: The Jerusalem Philosophical Quarterly.
 Hebrew review of the book by Justice Dr. Avraham Tenenbaum in HaMishpat: Law Review, The College of Management Law School.

To Invent a Nation
A collection of articles on modern theories of nationality coedited with Professor Henry Wasserman; published in Hebrew in 2006 by the Open University.

 “Nationality as conspiracy, or is the US an ideal model a nation?”, Review article in Haaretz, March 3, 2007.
 “The people of Israel? Come again?”, Review article in Makor Rishon, March 9, 2007.

Other Publications about Social Justice

 	The postscript to the Hebrew translation of Rawls’s 1985 Justice as Fairness, published in 2011 by Books in the Attic and Miskal.

Selected Edited Publications
 Coeditor of a special edition on workers’ rights in the era of globalization in Law & Ethics of Human Rights, with Faina Milman-Sivan.  
 Guest editor of a special edition on education in the Alpayim literary journal, 2010.

Article on Land and Distributive Justice
 “Who Owns This Land? On Rights and Conceptions of Social Justice”, Mishpat uMimshal (Law & Government), 8(223), 2005.