[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ze'ev Almog

l's seashore security
After a decade of lethal terrorist penetrations into Israel, under Almog's command, was able to eliminate penetration of terrorists from the Mediterranean and Red seas. This was achieved as a result of an execution of new plan that combined both defensive and offensive actions.

During this period, the navy had conducted hundreds of combat intrusions into terrorist bases. In 1982, it participated in the First Lebanon War during which ground forces and thousands of armored vehicles were landed on the Lebanese seashore. The navy had also assisted ground forces by firing at the enemy forces from missile boats off the shores of Lebanon. All Naval operations were conducted without any loss of Israeli lives or damage to naval vessels.

Peace treaty with Egypt
Israel naval bases in the Sinai Peninsula were evacuated. Israel resumed routine sailing of vessels in the Suez Canal. Visits of naval vessels and personnel between the Egyptian and the Israeli navy were conducted. Search operations for the missing submarine "Dakar" were resumed.

Update of naval strategy
A new strategy called "Inter-operational Naval Battle" was developed. Its core element included combined operation of missile boats, submarines and naval commandos. The new strategy was ratified by the military Chief of Staff.

Design of future combat equipment
The Israeli Navy conducted extensive planning in order to define its future needs, and the development and acquisition of equipment. This included Sa'ar 5 missile boats ("Lahav"), Dolphine submarines, anti-missile missiles ("Barak") and naval helicopters ("Dolphin" type). In addition, the Navy launched the development and the build-up of a sophisticated system of alert and surveillance along the shores of Israel.

The Absorption of new vessels and systems
Missile boats Sa'ar 4 type ("Nadran"), missile boats Sa'ar 4.5 type ("Noshav"), hydrofoil missile boats ("Zivanit"), anti-missile cannons ("Vulcan Phalanx"), Encapsulated Harpoon missiles launched from "Gal" submarines, new boats for the naval commandos, and new electronic and other systems for most naval boats.

Training re-organization
Training methods for officers and sailors were formulated. A new procedure by which vessel commanders are certified was defined. Career paths for officers ranking from Ensign to Commander were constructed and included academic studies.

Bringing of Ethiopian Jews to Israel
In the period preceding the Operation Moses, the first 1,000 Ethiopian Jews were brought from the shores of Sudan to Israel, under a covert operation.

General Manager – Israel Shipyards
In March 1986, Almog retired from the IDF and was appointed, at the request of the Ministers of Transportation and Finance and the Official Receiver of the state as a "Special Manager" for the government-owned Israel Shipyards. This appointment stemmed from the serious situation of the shipyards that were on a verge of bankruptcy and needed a turnaround. Nine years later, after completion of a turnaround program the company became profitable, was taken out of receivership and was sold as a viable business to private investors.

During Almog's tenure as the General Manager of the shipyards it developed two types of sophisticated vessels: Sa'ar 4.5 missile boat ("Nirit" type) and the fast patrol boat ("Shaldag") that was purchased by the Israeli Navy and other foreign navies. During this time the American Navy's Sixth Fleet conducted 50% of its Mediterranean ship repairs in Israel Shipyards. It has invested significant funding in dredging the shipyard harbor and improving other infrastructure facilities at the shipyards.

In April 1995, after the privatization of the shipyards, Almog resigned from the shipyards management and devoted his time to serving on various organizations and companies' board of directors such as Israel-Africa Investment Company and was elected to the Israeli Management Society. he was elected as a member of the Board of Trustees of the University of Haifa and as a member of the steering committee of the Institutes for Oceanic Studies at Haifa University. Heserved as the chairman of the Israeli national fund for the development of scuba diving.

Special awards
Almog received the Legion of Merit award from the United States Secretary of Defense while commanding the Israeli Navy (1981).

Almog was selected by the World Board of Governors of the U.S.O (a US government organization responsible for personal wellbeing of the US military around the world) to become the first U.S.O president in Israel (1992).