[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Train of Life

Life Is Beautiful and Jakob the Liar, because all three were released to North American theaters in 1999, but Train of Life had been the first in production. While Jakob the Liar was near-universally panned, critics were divided upon which out of the other two worked better as a "Holocaust comedy".

While Desson Howe of the Washington Post called Train of Life a "less-than-scintillating spin on Life Is Beautiful", James Berardinelli of ReelViews found the film's comedy "too 'French' in nature — which is to say that it tends towards silliness and slapstick." Rob Blackwelder of SlicedWire (while not opposed to the idea of Holocaust tragicomedies in general) found each of the three films suffering from their distinct own flaws. Jim Sullivan of the Boston Globe (without mentioning Jakob the Liar) found that it "works much better" than Life Is Beautiful. Jean Oppenheimer of the Dallas Observer praised Train of Life as being "far superior to either" of the other two, and Henry Cabot Beck of Film.com went as far as comparing it to Spielberg's Academy Award-winning 1993 Holocaust drama, calling Train of Life "every bit as reverent as Schindler's List and no less successful" and contending about its two 1999 competitors that "neither film was as well directed or acted" as Train of Life. Stefan Steinberg of the World Socialist Web Site claimed that Train of Life is "a far better film" than Life Is Beautiful, being impressed by "the immense affection and care with which Mihaileanu has recreated the life and self deprecating humour of the Jewish villagers."

Several American reviewers saw a distinct similarity between Mihăileanu's filmic yarn and the mood and humor found in the writings of Isaac Bashevis Singer or Sholem Aleichem.Savlov, Marc (1999). Train of Life, Austin Chronicle, December 24, 1999 Many reviewers made favorable comparisons to both Ernst Lubitsch's 1942 version or Mel Brooks's 1983 version of To Be Or Not To Be (citing the same clever wit), positive and negative comparisons to Brooks's 1968 The Producers (calling it either better, worse, or "just as bad" as Brooks's farce), or negatively compared the oftentimes more buffoonish than scary Nazis in the film to the TV series Hogan's Heroes.Bertrand, Merle (2000). TRAIN DE VIE (TRAIN OF LIFE), Film Threat, March 16, 2000Kaltenbach, Chris (1999). Train of Life never becomes Beautiful, Baltimore Sun, November 12, 1999

 Review quotes 

{{blockquote|Mihaileanu goes to great pains to emphasize the tragedy of the circumstances, although he does so in a somewhat belated and unconventional manner. [...] An important question for viewers of Train of Life is whether a tremendous ending can redeem an otherwise mediocre motion picture. [...] For that reason, Train of Life is one of the few films that works better on subsequent viewings than on the initial one. [...] Ultimately, however, the ending is what will determine how each individual reacts to Train of Life. Someone who walks out midway through the film will have a different perspective than those who stay to the start of the closing credits, since much of what is provocative and interesting about the movie is introduced during the brief epilogue. While this is not the ideal way to structure a motion picture [...], there's no doubt that Train of Life's resolution leaves a forceful impression.|James Berardinelli: Train of Life (Train de Vie) (ReelViews)}}

 Awards 
Among other American and international awards, Train of Life won both the FIPRESCI Prize for Best First Feature and the Anicaflash Prize at the 55th Venice International Film Festival, the World Cinema Audience Award: Dramatic at the 1999 Sundance Film Festival, and the Best Foreign Language Film Award'' at the Las Vegas Film Critics Society Awards 1999.

References

External links 

Train de Vie (Train of Life) (1998) on Rotten Tomatoes
Train of Life on Metacritic

1998 films
1990s war comedy-drama films
Tragicomedy films
Films about Jews and Judaism
Films directed by Radu Mihăileanu
Films scored by Goran Bregović
Films shot in Bucharest
1990s French-language films
French war comedy-drama films
Holocaust films
Films about refugees
Rail transport films
Romanian black comedy films
Films about Romani people
1998 comedy-drama films
Romanian war films
1990s French films
Sundance Film Festival award-winning films