[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of State Routes in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania

on with Interstate 376, and it is cosigned in this manner through the city of Pittsburgh and until that route's eastern terminus. On the office park-lined streets of Monroeville, US 22 branches westward, serving as a four-lane connector as it heads toward suburbanized regions in Westmoreland County.

: At a confusing freeway junction in the East Allegheny neighborhood of Pittsburgh, this highway marks its western terminus. The highway begins as a narrow four-lane East Ohio Street, running in this function through the suburbs of Reserve Township and Millvale. Then, the highway transitions into the Allegheny Valley Expressway and serves as the main freeway connector for Pittsburgh's northeastern suburbs. In Harmar Township, the route intersects with the Pennsylvania Turnpike. As the route leaves Allegheny for Butler County, Pittsburgh's suburban regions transition toward rural hills, and the freeway connection continues to Kittanning.
: The famous Lincoln Highway enters Allegheny County from a sparsely portion of southern Beaver County. The first mile encompasses one of the few rural patches of Allegheny County, before the two-lane route becomes much more suburban. Soon, the highway becomes cosigned with US 22 in Findlay Township and then with Interstate 376 as it functions as a portion of the Parkway West. Along with its two associated routes, the highway travels onward through Downtown Pittsburgh and into the city's eastern suburbs as the Parkway East. In Forest Hills, the road becomes independent once again and transitions into a busy four-lane, business-lined highway. As it reaches the Westmoreland County line, suburbia continues to line the major highway all the way to Greensburg.
: A portion of the long planned Mon-Fayette Expressway, this toll highway remains incomplete in its goal to eventually connect Morgantown, West Virginia with Pittsburgh via the Monongahela Valley. The route enters the county from a small suburban corner of riverfront Washington County, then passes on a variety of viaducts on the rolling topography above the development of Jefferson Hills. The highway currently ends at a toll plaza and junction with Route 51. Future plans call for the route to be extended to I-376 in the eastern neighborhoods of Pittsburgh, although no timetable has been set for this expansion.

 (SR 3160)

 (locally maintained)

 (SR 400)

Quadrant Routes

See also

References

External links
 Pennsylvania State Highway Video Inventory

 Allegheny
Allegheny