[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Union Navy

ern
Siege of Fort Macon
Hampton Roads
New Orleans (Forts Jackson and St. Philip)
Drewry's Bluff
Galveston Harbor
Charleston Harbor
Fort Wagner (Morris Island)
Albemarle Sound
Sinking of CSS Alabama by the USS Kearsarge
Mobile Bay
First Battle of Fort Fisher
Second Battle of Fort Fisher
Trent's Reach

There were numerous small or one-to-one battles far away from the coasts between ocean-going Union vessels and blockade runners, often in the Caribbean but also in the Atlantic, the Battle of Cherbourg being the most famous example.

Inland waters
Forts Henry and Donelson
Island No. 10
Plum Point Bend
Memphis
St. Charles, Arkansas (White River expedition)
Vicksburg campaign
Arkansas Post (Fort Hindman)
Yazoo Pass Expedition
Steele's Bayou Expedition
Battle of Grand Gulf
Red River expedition

Not included in this list are several incidents in which the Navy took part more or less incidentally. These include Shiloh and Malvern Hill. They are not on the list because naval personnel were not involved in planning or preparing for the battle.

Ranks and rank insignia
The highest rank available to a U.S. naval officer when the war began was that of Commodore.  This created problems when many ships had to operate together with no clearly established chain of command. Even worse, when the Navy worked with the Army in joint operations, the customary rank equivalency between the two services meant that the naval captain, equivalent to an army colonel, would always be inferior to every Army general present. After the existing arrangement had been used for the first year of the war, the case was made that the nation's interests would be better served by organizing the Navy along lines more like that of the Royal Navy of Great Britain. A set of officer ranks was established in the summer of 1862 that precisely matched the Army ranks. The most visible change was that some individuals would be designated commodore, rear admiral, vice admiral, and finally admiral, all new formal ranks, and equivalent to, respectively, brigadier general, major general, lieutenant general, and general.

1861–62

1862–64

1864–66

Petty Officers

Chief Petty Officer

Master-at-Arms of the ship he serves in.

Petty Officers of the Line

Rank and succession to command:

 Boatswain's Mate
 Gunner's Mate
 Signal Quartermaster
 Coxswain to Commander-in-Chief
 Captain of Forecastle
 Coxswain
 Captain of Main-top
 Captain of Fore-top
 Captain of Mizzen-top
 Captain of Afterguard
 Quarter Gunner
 2nd Captain of Forecastle
 2nd Captain of Main-top
 2nd Captain of Fore-top
 2nd Captain of Mizzen-top

Petty Officers of the Staff

Rank next after Master-at-Arms:
 Yeoman
 Surgeon's Steward
 Paymaster's Steward
 Master of the Band
 Schoolmaster
 Ship's Writer

Rank next after Gunner's Mate:
 Carpenter's Mate
 Armorer
 Sailmaker's Mate

Rank next after Captain of the Afterguard:
 Painter
 Cooper
 Armorer's Mate

Rank next after Quarter-Gunner:
 Ship's Corporal
 Captain of the Hold
 Ship's Cook
 Baker

Enlisted Pay Ratings
 Able Seaman (three years experience at sea and able to work aloft)
 Seaman (one year experience at sea)
 Landsman (no previous sea experience)

See also

 History of the United States Navy
 Confederate States Navy
 American Civil War
 Blockade runners of the American Civil War
 Bibliography of American Civil War naval history
 Mississippi River in the American Civil War

References