[Source: PubMed]

13. Environ Health Perspect. 2012 Feb;120(2):171-9. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1103515.
Epub  2011 Oct 13.

Integrating climate change adaptation into public health practice: using 
adaptive management to increase adaptive capacity and build resilience.

Hess JJ(1), McDowell JZ, Luber G.

Author information:
(1)Climate and Health Program, Division of Environmental Hazards and Health 
Effects, National Center for Environmental Health, Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. jhess@emory.edu

BACKGROUND: Climate change is expected to have a range of health impacts, some 
of which are already apparent. Public health adaptation is imperative, but there 
has been little discussion of how to increase adaptive capacity and resilience 
in public health systems.
OBJECTIVES: We explored possible explanations for the lack of work on adaptive 
capacity, outline climate-health challenges that may lie outside public health's 
coping range, and consider changes in practice that could increase public 
health's adaptive capacity.
METHODS: We conducted a substantive, interdisciplinary literature review focused 
on climate change adaptation in public health, social learning, and management 
of socioeconomic systems exhibiting dynamic complexity.
DISCUSSION: There are two competing views of how public health should engage 
climate change adaptation. Perspectives differ on whether climate change will 
primarily amplify existing hazards, requiring enhancement of existing public 
health functions, or present categorically distinct threats requiring innovative 
management strategies. In some contexts, distinctly climate-sensitive health 
threats may overwhelm public health's adaptive capacity. Addressing these 
threats will require increased emphasis on institutional learning, innovative 
management strategies, and new and improved tools. Adaptive management, an 
iterative framework that embraces uncertainty, uses modeling, and integrates 
learning, may be a useful approach. We illustrate its application to extreme 
heat in an urban setting.
CONCLUSIONS: Increasing public health capacity will be necessary for certain 
climate-health threats. Focusing efforts to increase adaptive capacity in 
specific areas, promoting institutional learning, embracing adaptive management, 
and developing tools to facilitate these processes are important priorities and 
can improve the resilience of local public health systems to climate change.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1103515
PMCID: PMC3279431
PMID: 21997387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.H. serves as a consultant for the CDC. The 
other authors declare they have no actual or potential competing financial 
interests.