[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Highway 90 (Israel–Palestine)

the Beit She'an-Bardala checkpoint, during certain agricultural seasons, Palestinian trucks transporting agricultural produce are allowed to cross twice a week. Palestinians are often stopped and turned back for not having the correct papers, at the Beit Ha'arava checkpoint leading to the Dead Sea.

Accidents
Route 90 is one of Israel's most dangerous highways. Between 2003 and 2018, there were over 2,250 road accidents on Route 90, in which 223 people were killed and over 6,450 people were hurt, 700 of them seriously. Oz Dror, spokesperson for Or Yarok, the Association for Safer Driving in Israel, said in 2018: "Route 90 continues to claim victims and take lives as a result of a shaky infrastructure that is not forgiving of drivers' mistakes. It is always easier to blame the driver and the human factor, but the Ministry of Transport and Road Safety is also responsible. The road was paved 50 years ago, and many years ago, it was necessary to improve the infrastructure and turn it from a red road to a safe road. A separation railing must be installed between the lanes to prevent head-on accidents as early as tomorrow morning to prevent the next casualty. Road accidents are not fate but failure."

On 6 January 2022, a traffic collision between a truck and minibus killed eight people and injured two others in the West Bank. The crash occurred at Petzal Junction. President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas declared a day of mourning. Defence Minister of Israel Benny Gantz tweeted his condolences to the victims. On 7 January, the day after the accident, many Palestinians gathered in Aqraba, a Palestinian town in Samaria, for the joint funeral.

Attempts to block
While blocking a route is a criminal offence in Israel, some attempts to block the road have been made in recent years.

 During March 2011 Israeli social workers' demonstrations, an attempt was made to block route 90.
 In April 2011, a group of people attempted to cycle from Nablus to Jericho, partially on road 90, as a celebration of Israeli rule over the West Bank.
 On 14 April 2012, approximately 200 cyclists tried to join the road and were stopped by Lt. Col. Eisner. The incident became an international scandal resulting in Eisner being suspended.

See also
Highway 65 (Jordan) – The parallel road on the Jordanian side of the border

References

External links

 Route 90 and it's Dangerous Curves
 Route 90 in The Times of Israel

Roads in Israel