[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# MDP Wethersfield

The 7119th Air Base Flight, later designated the 7119th Support Group, was established to manage the personnel and organisational issues for units at RAF Wethersfield. The 819th was tasked with rapid runway repair responsibilities for US Air Forces in Europe, along with its usual heavy repair role.

As the American involvement in the Vietnam War wound down, the role of RED HORSE units in peacetime came into question.  As the need still existed for a quick-acting heavy repair force integral to the USAF Air Force and responsive to USAF commanders, a variety of training programs were developed, including civil engineering projects to develop skills similar to those required during a contingency.  In 1980 members of the 819th removed and re-installed seven bells and a bell cage in an 11th-century church in Finchingfield, Essex. The goodwill generated in the village, located a mile from RAF Wethersfield, resulted in enhanced housing and community support for USAF personnel.

The 819th, along with the 2166th Communications Squadron, were the main units at Wethersfeld until the USAF returned the base to the British in 1990 due to budget cutbacks. The 819th was inactivated in February, while the 2166th remained active until June 1992. The base was handed back to the Royal Air Force at a ceremony on 3 July 1990 and Wethersfield was once again placed under care and maintenance status. The USAF retained a small Military Family Housing area at Wethersfield, in which American personnel assigned to RAF Molesworth, RAF Alconbury, and RAF Upwood lived.

Current use

On 6 June 1982 No. 614 Volunteer Gliding Squadron RAF moved to MDP Wethersfield from RAF Debden, as that base was required for tank training.  The squadron currently operates Grob Viking TX.1 gliders, maintaining a fleet of between six and eleven. The squadron's headquarters is in one of the two remaining T2 hangars. The gliders are used to provide members of the Royal Air Force Air Cadets with gliding experience. Gliding scholarships and advanced glider training are available. In addition to the gliders, the squadron operates four Land Rover Defenders, a Lamborghini tractor, and two Van Gelder six drum trailer type winches. The squadron consists of 40 to 60 personnel who annually conduct around 6,000 launches, producing more than 800 hours of air time.

In April 1991, the Chief Constable of the Ministry of Defence Police (MDP) assumed responsibility for the site. A small, joint civilian-uniformed team was established to oversee the refurbishment of a number of buildings to prepare for the relocation of the Ministry of Defence Police Training School and Firearms Training Wing from Medmenham, Buckinghamshire, and the headquarters from Earl's Court in London by March 1993. The Training Centres commenced operation on 1 April 1993.

The Operational Support Unit moved to Wethersfield from RAF Wittering and has been permanently based there since May 1992. In addition, Wethersfield was to be the home for the MOD Guard Service (MGS) Training School.  The move in October 1994 of the MDP training and headquarters, along with the MGS Training Wing, gave the Force its first combined HQ and Training Centre.

Gardiner Associates, a fire investigation training provider, began providing residential fire investigation training courses for police, fire and forensic science practitioners at MDP Wethersfield in 2000. Millbrook Engineering uses Wethersfield as its "Extreme Manoeuvre Facility", which they describe as a "high security location for extreme dynamics evaluation and driver training with the world's largest on and off-road vehicles."

All three wartime-era runways and connecting taxiways, as well as many wartime loop-type dispersal hardstands, remain in good condition. The post-war jet runway laid down for USAF fighters during the 1950s and 1960s is still intact. The large main hangar, used by the USAF until the facility was closed, is well maintained, as are numerous buildings and Nissen huts used by the MOD Police.

In late March 2016, the Ministry of Defence announced that the site was one of ten to be sold in order to reduce the size of the Defence estate. The disposal date was later extended to 2025.

Proposed use
In April 2023 the Home Office announced that it was working on proposals to use the Wethersfield site for accommodation for asylum seekers.  It was one of a number of military bases that were proposed to house asylum seekers as well as the Bibby Stockholm barge.

In August 2023 the former UK Home Secretary Priti Patel in a letter to the current UK Home Secretary Suella Braverman accused the government of being "secretive" and "evasive" about details of their plans to use the Wethersfield site to house asylum seekers.

See also

 List of Royal Air Force stations

References

Citations