[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Typhoon Durian

o about 6,000 families; however, the food distribution programs ended in December 2007, causing food shortages in the first few months of 2008 among those still displaced. UNICEF distributed 1,750 water purification tablets, along with jerrycans and water containers, to ensure access to clean water.

After the successive impacts of Xangsane and Durian caused widespread power outages, the Bicol region lost about $250 million in economic output. The unemployment rate in the Bicol region rose to about 30%, and many who retained their jobs earned less than before the storm. In the aftermath of Durian, all relief activities were coordinated through the Philippines' departments of Health and Social Welfare and Development. A fleet of over 200 vehicles transported relief supplies – food, construction materials, clothing, and medicine – to the Bicol region on December 12. The Philippine Air Force airlifted supplies and medical teams to Bicol and offshore Catanduanes, with the National Disaster Coordinating Council supplying 17,350 sacks of rice to those areas. The Departments of Social Welfare and Development and the Department of Health sent teams to help victims cope with stress and consoled the families of the deceased, aided by psychiatrists. The Department of Health also distributed tents and sleeping bags, provided vaccines to people in evacuation camps, and ensured proper burial of storm casualties. There was a minor outbreak of diarrhea in the evacuation camps that affected 142 people in Legazpi, and other evacuees were also ailed by the cold, coughing, and fever. Local governments in Albay worked to ensure areas retained clean water by using disinfectants and temporary latrines. The Philippine government provided ₱119 million (US$2.4 million) toward rebuilding the damaged schools in Albay, only 23% of the required cost to repair all of the schools.

The government assessed that about 35% of those who lost their houses had the resources to rebuild without assistance; this meant that 144,692 houses had to be rebuilt. Many of the storm victims left homeless resided in tent camps, schools, and temporary shelters, until more permanent buildings were built. The Red Cross housed about 60,000 people across ten provinces in temporary shelters. The Philippine government planned to quickly build more permanent homes, although there were difficulties in securing land and materials for the new housing. By March 2007, government and international agencies only provided 6.9% of the necessary homes, forcing people to stay in shelters longer than expected. By a year after the storm, over 10,000 families still stayed in transit camps in Albay and Camarines Sur. Various organizations helped the homeless secure housing. The government of Italy funded a ₱26 million (US$525,000) project to rebuild 180 houses in Albay. The Italian government also helped build new livelihood centers to provide jobs, provided new boats, and donated about 80,000 coconut seeds to replant trees. In the eight months after Durian struck, the Philippine National Red Cross, in conjunction with the International Red Cross, delivered building supplies to about 12,000 families to repair their homes or build new ones. The organizations encouraged residents to rebuild houses away from vulnerable areas. The International Organization for Migration, in conjunction with the United States Agency for International Development, built 907 homes and new community centers. The Philippine government released ₱76 million ($1.5 million) in funds to build 1,089 houses. UNICEF provided emergency funding to rebuild 50 daycare centers that were damaged by the typhoon. Habitat for Humanity helped repair about 1,200 homes, build about 2,000 new houses, and rebuilt four schools in Sorsogon.

Around Mayon Volcano, officials enacted search and rescue missions for victims affected by landslides. Workers quickly excavated lahar-filled valleys, bridges, and river beds to rebuild dykes. Farmers quickly regrew damaged crops, while schools and homes were cleaned and rebuilt. Stronger concrete dykes were built around populated communities. The government developed relocation plans for three landslide-prone areas in Albay. In 2011, the Regional Development Council approved a budget to construct additional dams along the Mayon Volcano to prevent the deadly floods and landslides that occurred during Durian. Dams were scheduled to be constructed around the volcano after a 1981 study, but these were delayed due to budget constraints.