[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mining in Australia

back to the UK, sufficient wealth remained to fund substantial development of industry and infrastructure.

Location

Australia has mining activity in all of its states and territories. The Minerals Council of Australia estimates that 0.02% of Australia's land surface is directly impacted by mining.

Particularly significant areas today include the Goldfields, Peel and Pilbara regions of Western Australia, the Hunter Valley in New South Wales, the Bowen Basin in Queensland and Latrobe Valley in Victoria and various parts of the outback. Places such as Kalgoorlie, Mount Isa, Mount Morgan, Broken Hill and Coober Pedy are known as mining towns.

Major active mines in Australia include:
Olympic Dam in South Australia, a copper, silver and uranium mine believed to have the world's largest uranium resource, and in 2018 producing 6% of world production
Super Pit gold mine, which has replaced a number of underground mines at Boulder, Western Australia
Mount Whaleback mine in Western Australia is the largest open-pit iron ore mine in the world.

Minerals and resources

Large quantities of minerals and resources :
 Iron ore – Australia was the world's largest producer in 2019, supplying 580 million tonnes, 37% of the world's output (39% of the world's contained metal production).
 Nickel – Australia was the world's fifth largest producer in 2019, producing 6.7% of world output.
 Aluminium – Australia was the world's largest producer of bauxite in 2019 (27% of world production), and the second largest producer of alumina (15%), after China.
 Copper – Australia was the world's 6th largest producer in 2019 (5% of world's production).
 Gold – Australia was the second largest producer after China in 2019, producing , 10% of the world's output.
 Silver –  In 2019 Australia was the sixth largest producer, producing , 5% of the world's output.
 Uranium – Australia is responsible for 12% of the world's production and was the world's third largest producer in 2018, after Kazakhstan and Canada.
 Diamond – Australia has the third largest commercially viable deposits after Russia and Botswana. Australia also boasts the richest diamantiferous pipe with production reaching peak levels of 42 metric tons (41 LT/46 ST) per year in the 1990s.
 Opal – Australia is the world's largest producer of opal, being responsible for 95% of production.
 Zinc – Australia was third to China and Peru in zinc production in 2019, producing 1.3 million tonnes, 10% of world production.
 Coal – Australia is the world's largest exporter of coal and fourth largest producer of coal behind China, USA and India.
 Oil shale – Australia has the sixth largest defined oil shale resources.
 Petroleum – In 2019 Australia was the thirty-third largest producer of petroleum.
 Natural gas – Australia is world's largest exporter of LNG with 77.5 million tonnes in 2019.
 Rare earth elements – In 2019 Australia was the third largest producer after China and USA, with 10% of the world's output.

Much of the raw material mined in Australia is exported overseas to countries such as China for processing into refined product. Energy and minerals constitute two-thirds of Australia's total exports to China, and more than half of Australia's iron ore exports are to China.

Statistical chart of Australia's major mineral resources
Australia ranks among the top 4 in economic resources for 21 primary industrial minerals, more than any other nation. Statistics are for December 2016.

Units of measurement:  t = tonne; kt = kilotonne (1,000 t); Mt = million tonne (1,000,000 t); Mc = million carat (1,000,000 c)

Coal mining

Coal is mined in every state of Australia except South Australia. Australia is one of the world's major coal producers and exporters, ranking fourth in production (after China, India and the United States) and second in exports (after Indonesia). While most Australian coal is exported, coal was also used to generate 28.7% of Australia's total primary energy supply in 2021.

Uranium mining

Uranium mining in Australia began in the early 20th century in South Australia. At 2016 Australia contained 29% of the world's defined uranium resources. The three largest uranium mines in the country are Olympic Dam, Ranger Uranium Mine and Beverley Uranium Mine. Future production is expected from Honeymoon Uranium Mine and the planned Four Mile Uranium Mine.

Natural gas
Based on 2008 CSIRO report, Australia estimated to have stranded gas reserves with about 140 trillion cubic feet or enough to fulfil the needs of a city with one million people for 2,800 years.

Lithium

Australia is the biggest producer of lithium by weight and has the world's largest hard-rock lithium mine, the Greenbushes mine in Western Australia. Lithium mined at Greenbushes accounted for more than 20% of global production in 2021.

Entrepreneurs and magnates