[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Women's suffrage in Japan

s school of thought, the relationship between husband and wife relied upon a woman fully devoting herself to the needs and success of her husband. Hayashi Razan's teachings, although developed during the seventeenth century, were the basis of the Japanese social and cultural structure for centuries.

Workforce
Women traditionally were to focus all of their efforts to the maintenance and development of their households, and their work was limited to domestic and agricultural tasks. With the evolution of Japan as a growing industrialized nation and with the reformation of Japanese society, women became the majority in newly built factories that became necessary to support Japan's booming textile industry. Although these women were allowed to leave their homes and earn wages, they were still held captive by patriarchal constraints.

Many women in the workforce had been sent by their families to work in factories that would send their earnings back to their homes. They were provided room and board for the duration of their employment, but the conditions where they lived and worked were deplorable and resulted in widespread illness and disease. The conditions, their mediocre salaries, and their risk of developing life-threatening medical conditions were the driving force behind the suffrage movement's desire to improve the state of the workplace for women.

Due to theses insufferable and hazardous work conditions, women, especially textile workers, begun to join the Friendly Society (Yuaikai) later named the Japan Federation of Labor (Nihon Rōdō Sodomei or Sōdōmei), in order to combat the numerous inequalities. With long agonizing hours, constant sexual harassment, and insufficient wages, industrialized women workers of Japan suffered tremendously. Despite the patriarchal ideology categorizing women as "auxiliary members" and "secondary wage earners" of the friendly society, a multitude of women remained eager to fight for justifiable and fair wages.

See also
Women in Japan
Feminism in Japan
Overview of gender inequality in Japan
Timeline of women's suffrage
List of suffragists and suffragettes

Footnotes

References

External links

Photo of "Suffrage Week in Tokio" taken between 1915 and 1930, published by Detroit Publishing Co. (copyright unknown)
Editorial on Women's Suffrage from Japanese Press Translations

Political history of Japan
Japan
Women's rights in Japan
Feminism in Japan
Electoral reform in Japan

ja:女性参政権#日本における女性参政権獲得までの歴史