[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation

Airavat Club Class: It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+2 reclining seats built on a multi-axle Volvo B9R (Old) or Volvo B11R (New), Scania Metrolink and Mercedes-Benz 0 500 R 1830 chassis with a white livery. It is a long-distance service operating out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka).

Ambaari Class: It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+1 lower and upper berth sleeper seats built on a single-axle Corona chassis with a white livery. It is a long-distance service operating out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka).

Ambaari Dream Class: It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+1 lower and upper berth sleeper seats built on a multi-axle Volvo B11R chassis with a white livery. It is a long-distance service operating out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka).
Ambaari Utsav Class: It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+1 lower and upper berth sleeper seats on a 9600 Volvo Multi-axle sleeper with a light-blue livery. It is a long-distance service operating out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka).
Flybus: It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+2 reclining seats with chemical toilets, Wi-Fi, and an auto hand wash system built on a multi-axle Volvo B9R (Old) or Volvo B11R (New) chassis with a golden livery. It is a service connecting Kempegowda International Airport, Bangalore to Mysore, Madikeri and Kundapura.
EV- Power Plus+: It is an electric AC luxury bus service with 2+2 reclining seats built by Olectra with a blue livery. It is presently running on a trial basis between the cities of Bangalore and Mysore. It is expected to be operated on various intrastate and interstate routes out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka).

Former services
Meghdooth Class: It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+2 reclining seats built on a single-axle Ashok Leyland chassis with a dark blue-white livery. It is a long-distance service operating out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka). This service was replaced with Sheethal Class.
Sheethal Class: It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+2 reclining seats built on a single-axle Ashok Leyland chassis with a green livery. It is a long-distance service operating out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka). This service was replaced with Airavat Class.
Vaibhav Class: It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+2 reclining seats with less reclining compared to Rajahamsa Executive Class built on a single-axle Ashok Leyland chassis with a white livery. It is a long-distance service operating out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka). Currently defunct.
Airavat Bliss Class: It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+2 reclining seats with chemical toilets, Wi-Fi, pantry and individual TV screens built on a multi-axle Volvo chassis with a white livery. It is a long-distance service operating out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka). Currently defunct.
Airavat Superia Class:  It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+2 reclining seats with chemical toilets, Wi-Fi, and an auto hand wash system built on a multi-axle Volvo chassis with a white livery. It is a long-distance service operating out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka). Currently defunct.
Airavat Diamond Class: It is an AC luxury bus service with 2+2 reclining seats built on a multi-axle Scania chassis with a white livery. It is a long-distance service operating out of Dakshina Karnataka (Southern Karnataka). Rebranded and merged with Airavat Club Class.

'Shakti Scheme' Free Bus Service for women 
'Shakti Scheme' was announced by the Second Siddaramaiah ministry on 2 June 2023. It started on 11 June 2023, providing free-of-charge bus service to Karnataka domicile women. Beneficiaries show their government-issued photo identity and address proof for the first three months. Bus conductors issue them zero-fare tickets Thereafter, beneficiaries obtain Shakti smartcards (named after the name of the scheme) through an application process on the government's Seva Sindhu website.