[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Spike (missile)

the Spike-ER II. It retains the same weight, airframe, surface geometries, and propulsion unit but introduces a two-way RF data-link to increase real-time control to an extended range of  from helicopters; it also has an extended fiber optic link to increase range to  from land and naval platforms.

Spike NLOS
"Non Line Of Sight" is an ultra long-range version of the weapon (Israeli designation: Tamuz, תמוז), with a claimed maximum range of . It is a significantly larger missile than other Spike variants, with an overall weight of around . It can be launched from the ground or from helicopters. It was developed following lessons learned in the Yom Kippur War, which showed a need for a high-precision guided tactical ground-to-ground battlefield missile. The first variants entered service with the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) in tandem with the Pereh missile carrier in 1981, though the existence of both was not revealed to the public until 2011. The Spike NLOS uses a fiber optic link similar to other Spike versions, but only out to 8 km, after which it employs a radio data link for command guidance.

In 2011 it also became known that in a highly unusual move, the British Army was hastily equipped with the missile for counter-mortar fire, drawn directly from IDF inventory after being exposed to increasing insurgent attacks in Iraq, beginning in 2007 three variants of the NLOS were procured. A total of 600 missiles were acquired, the breakdown being 200 optical camera equipped NLOS MK.2 in 2007, 200 thermal imaging equipped NLOS MK.4 in 2008 for night operations (together with the MK.2 these were known as EXACTOR-1), 200 dual camera equipped NLOS MK.5 (EXACTOR-2) followed in 2009 which featured wings for slower but better maneuvering flight and a multi-purpose warhead replacing the anti-armor warhead of previous versions. For operational security, the codename of 'EXACTOR missile' was assigned in British service and it was initially mounted on launchers atop leased M113 APCs. The MK.2 performed badly being too fast and difficult to control, the M113 overheated in the desert and had a poor resolution camera display that compared unfavorably with its contemporaries. So Britain financed the development of the Mk. 5 known in British service as the EXACTOR 2 which replaced the M113 APC with a towed trailer known as SPARC holding four missiles in a 360-degree rotating turret that could be remotely controlled up to 500m away ditching the non-standard M113 APCs altogether when in 2010 the batteries were transferred from Iraq to Afghanistan.

In a deal concluded on 6 September 2011, the South Korean government had agreed to purchase an unknown number of Mk. 5 Spike NLOS missiles.

Rafael is working on expanding the missile's versatility by enhancing the existing EO-IR/CCD seeker with semi-active laser (SAL) capability and different anti-armor, blast-penetration, and high-explosive fragmentation warheads to meet specific applications.

In 2020 the US Army announced its intention to procure Spike NLOS missiles to be mounted on Apache helicopters. A test was conducted in March 2021 where an AH-64E fired a Spike NLOS at a target  away and scored a direct hit.

In June 2022, Rafael unveiled the Spike NLOS 6th generation with range increased to , a salvo feature which can launch up to four missiles at a time, and the ability to hand over control after firing to another platform. It also has a Target Image Acquisition capability that can prioritize important targets for strike, and can be carried by strategic UAVs in the Heron-TP-class.

Mini-Spike
On 2 September 2009, at an IDF exhibition held at the third Latrun annual land warfare conference, the Israeli Defense Force unveiled a new member of the Spike family of missiles – the Mini Spike Anti-personnel guided weapon (APGW). Rafael claimed that this latest member of the Spike family of missile costs and weighed only a third of the Spike-LR at , while offering a longer engagement range of  when compared to the Spike-SR. It was to introduce new flight modes to enable precision strikes in urban areas, such as flying through windows or attacking an enemy hidden behind defilade or obstacles using non-line-of-sight engagement. Mini Spike would use the same launcher and sight system of the Spike-LR, loading the missile on a special adaptor. By 2016, Mini-Spike development had been discontinued.

Almas
Iran received Israeli Spike-MRs captured during the 2006 Lebanon War by Hezbollah fighters. An unlicensed variant that goes by the name of Almas ().
The ATGM was unveiled in public on July 7, 2021.