[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of Grand Gulf

erate batteries were still capable of repulsing a landing from the transports.  During the action, Porter had been struck in the back of his head with a shell fragment; the painful wound caused him to use his sword as a cane.  The naval vessels had fired more than 2,300 shots during the bombardment.

Confederate fire had focused the heaviest on Benton, Pittsburgh, and Tuscumbia. The former vessel had taken 47 hits, Pittsburgh 35, and the latter over 80. Tuscumbia was poorly built (for instance, the spikes holding the ship's iron plating on were not secured with nuts), and had been badly damaged and knocked out of the fighting. Historians Michael B. Ballard and Ed Bearss state that the Union forces lost 18 men killed and 57 wounded, for a total of 75, with historians William L. Shea and Terrence J. Winschel instead placing Union casualties at 24 killed and 56 wounded, including a few men from the army serving on the warships in a volunteer capacity.  According to Ballard and Bearss, Confederate losses totaled 22: three dead and 19 wounded;  historian Donald L. Miller and Shea and Winschel state that the Confederates lost 18 men, the difference being in wounded.

Aftermath

After the naval bombardment was unable to neutralize the Confederate position at Grand Gulf, the troops on the transports returned to dry land. Later that day, the Union transports and barges were run downriver, under the covering fire of Porter's gunboats.  The vessels were able to make it downriver safely; Porter lost one man in the affair and the Confederates lost none.  Grant's infantrymen marched downriver to Disharoon's plantation, where the transports had been gathered after passing Grand Gulf.  Two crossing points below Grand Gulf were considered by Grant: Rodney, Mississippi, or Bruinsburg, Mississippi.  Bowen expected Union troops to cross at the former.  Discussions between Union scouts and an African American, who was possibly named Bob, yielded the information that a usable road ran from Bruinsburg to Port Gibson, so Bruinsburg was selected as the crossing point.

Late on April 29, expecting a Union crossing of the river, Bowen sent a detachment from his command to hold Port Gibson, and the next day sent reinforcements that had arrived from Vicksburg to that place as well. On the morning of April 30, the Bruinsburg crossing began.  McClernand's corps and a portion of Major General James B. McPherson's corps led the way.  By the next morning, 24,000 Union soldiers had crossed the river without opposition.  More of McPherson's men crossed on May 1.  Early that morning, the Confederates near Port Gibson encountered McClernand's advancing troops.  The ensuing Battle of Port Gibson was a hard-fought Union victory.  Winning the battle protected the Union beachhead and rendered Grand Gulf indefensible.  Pemberton ordered Bowen to abandon the position, and the Confederates spiked the cannons there early on May 3.  Union forces occupied the position after the Confederates withdrew, and it became a supply point during the ongoing campaign.  Portions of Sherman's corps crossed the river at Grand Gulf late on May 6 and into May 7.

Grant's men swung inland towards the railroad supplying Vicksburg. After the Battle of Raymond on May 12, Grant decided to swing east to disperse the Confederate reinforcements gathering at Jackson.  Jackson was taken on May 14, and two days later, Pemberton's attempt to defeat Grant outside of Vicksburg was defeated in the climactic Battle of Champion Hill.  The Siege of Vicksburg began on May 18, and ended in a Confederate surrender on July 4.  The capture of Vicksburg divided the Confederacy along the Mississippi River, and with the Union victory at the Siege of Port Hudson, gave the Union control of the river.  Together with a Confederate defeat at the Battle of Gettysburg on July 3, the fall of Vicksburg marked a turning point in the war.  The war ended in 1865 with a Confederate defeat.

The site of the battle is preserved by Grand Gulf Military State Park.  The park contains the land where forts Wade and Cobun were located, as well as an observation tower, a museum, and the remains of the old town of Grand Gulf.  The park was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on April 11, 1972.

Notes

References

Sources

Further reading
CWSAC Report Update

Vicksburg campaign
Battles of the Western Theater of the American Civil War
Claiborne County, Mississippi
Confederate victories of the American Civil War
Grand Gulf
Grand Gulf
Conflicts in 1863
1863 in Mississippi
Riverine warfare
April 1863 events