[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Richard Webber

ey are staying while in San Francisco to serve as examiners for the boards and have a one-night stand. However, Catherine's son Jackson (Jesse Williams), who was also there to take his boards and worked under Richard at Seattle Grace Mercy West, is horrified after finding out about the relationship.

While on the way to Bailey's wedding, Richard gets a phone call alerting him that Adele has been rushed to the hospital. Bailey and Meredith perform emergency surgery, which was successful. However, it is revealed that Adele died of a heart attack while recovering in the ICU. He later embarks on a relationship with Catherine.

A storm hits the hospital and creates a power outage. After operating on a former case of Bailey's, he goes in the electrical room and finds the man who was in charge of the generators lying on the ground. He sends him to an OR and stays in the room to restore the power but is seemingly electrocuted.

In the premiere of the tenth season, Richard says that his parents were there at his white coat ceremony. When he gets electrocuted but seasons later, he explains how his mom died when he was younger.

Richard slowly recovers from his electrical injuries after putting Meredith as his POA. Richard returns to work and is given a retirement package from Hunt on his birthday. Richard accepts an offer to become the head of the residency program mentoring the residents. He continues his relationship with Catherine and plans to propose. Richard chats with Dr. Maggie Pierce (Kelly McCreary) after her first day at Grey Sloan Memorial who says that it was surreal to work at a place that shares a name with Ellis Grey, her birth mother. Maggie bears a striking resemblance to Richard, suggesting that he is her father.

As series 11 progresses, it is revealed through moments of flashbacks from Meredith that Maggie is in fact Richard's daughter, and that Ellis gave her up out of shame and suffering from depression. Upon finding out the truth, Richard doesn't tell Maggie the news straight away out of fear Maggie will reject and blame him for giving her up. This causes Richard to act strangely around her, causing Miranda Bailey to wonder if he is sleeping with her, Richard correcting her on this mistake causes other members of staff to find out the truth before Maggie. After the truth is revealed, Maggie is angry with Richard and ignores and rebuffs him for some time. Later on in the season, the pair are seen to have bonded and are now friends, with Richard and Meredith sharing stories with Maggie about Ellis.

In the season 13 episode "The Room Where It Happens," when a male patient is wheeled into the OR, where Meredith, Hunt, and Edwards are waiting, Webber shows up to help having napped all day. Webber wants the patient to be given a name, he picks Gail, a cello player and music teacher. During the episode, each of the doctors has a flashback to a tragic incident from their past. We learn near the end of the episode, Gail was Webber's mother, who had advanced pancreatic cancer and died when he was ten.

Webber again fell ill in season 16, but received treatment and returned in the first episode of season 17 consequently being thrown back in to work in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. Meredith gives Webber her power of attorney after contracting the virus, and in the winter finale of season 17, he makes the decision to put her on a ventilator.

Development

Casting and creation

Characterization

References

External links 
Grey's Anatomy at ABC.com

Grey's Anatomy characters
Fictional surgeons
Fictional African-American people
Television characters introduced in 2005
Fictional alcohol abusers
American male characters in television