[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Acts of Union 1707

res to prevent the Netherlands and Hamburg from investing into the scheme while also refusing to assist the settlers in any way. Following the disastrous failure of the scheme, Scottish economy seemed to be on the brink of collapse, but ultimately Scotland was able to recover from it fairly quickly.

By 1703, the Scottish government was highly disillusioned and unsatisfied with the union, and many believed that the only way to let Scottish economy flourish was to separate from England. Fletcher of Saltoun called Scotland 'totally neglected, like a farm managed by servants not under the eye of the master', and the failure of the Darien Scheme was commonly attributed to English sabotage. The Scottish parliament would try to establish its autonomy from England with 1704 Act of Security, which provoked a retaliation from England - Scottish ministers were bribed, and Alien Act 1705 was passed. According to the Alien Act, unless Scotland appointed commissioners to negotiate for union by Christmas, every Scot in England would be treated as an alien, leading to the confiscation of their English estates. Additionally, Scottish wares were to be banned from England. Christopher Smout notes that England desired to expand its influence by annexing Scotland:

The act sparked vehement anti-English sentiment in Scotland, and made the already hostile Scottish public even more opposed to England:

The Scottish economy was now facing a crisis, and the parliament was polarised into a pro-union and anti-union factions, with the former led by Daniel Defoe. The unionists stressed how important trade with England is to the Scottish economy, and portrayed trade with continental Europe as not beneficial, or nowhere as profitable as trading with England. They argued that the Scottish economy could survive by trading with England, and sanctions that would result from the Alien Act would collapse the economy. For Defoe, joining the union would not only prevent the Alien Act, but would also remove additional limitations and regulations, which could lead Scotland to prosperity. Anti-unionists questioned the English goodwill and criticised the unionist faction for submitting to the English blackmail. They argued that Scotland could make a recovery by trading with the Netherlands, Spain and Norway, with the diverse European markets allowing Scotland to diversify its own industries as well. They noted that the union would make Scotland unable to conduct independent trade policy, meaning that any possibility to remove the flaws in Scottish economy would be gone forever, which would turn Scotland into a "mere satellite of the richer kingdom". Ultimately, Scottish ministers voted in favour of the union, which was against the public opinion, as the Scottish population at the time was overwhelmingly against any union with England. Many considered themselves betrayed by their own elite, and Smout argues that the union bill was only able to pass thanks to the English bribery.

 300th anniversary 

A commemorative two-pound coin was issued to mark the tercentennial—300th anniversary—of the Union, which occurred two days before the Scottish Parliament general election on 3 May 2007.

The Scottish Government held a number of commemorative events through the year including an education project led by the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Scotland, an exhibition of Union-related objects and documents at the National Museums of Scotland and an exhibition of portraits of people associated with the Union at the National Galleries of Scotland.

 Scottish voting records 

 See also 
 Acts of Union 1800 (Kingdom of Great Britain with Kingdom of Ireland)
Kingdom of Ireland
 English independence
 List of treaties
 MacCormick v Lord Advocate Parliament of the United Kingdom
 Political union
 Real union
 Scottish independence
 Unionism in Scotland
 Welsh independence

Notes

References

Sources and further reading

 
 Campbell, R. H. "The Anglo-Scottish Union of 1707. II. The Economic Consequences". Economic History Review vol. 16, no. 3, 1964, pp. 468–477 online 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Smout, T. C. "The Anglo-Scottish Union of 1707. I. The Economic Background". Economic History Review  vol. 16, no. 3, 1964, pp. 455–467. online 
 
 
 
 
 

 Other books 
 Defoe, Daniel. A tour thro' the Whole Island of Great Britain, 1724–27 Defoe, Daniel. The Letters of Daniel Defoe, GH Healey editor. Oxford: 1955.
 Fletcher, Andrew (Saltoun). An Account of a Conversation''
 Lockhart, George, "The Lockhart Papers", 1702–1728

External links 
 
 Union with England Act and Union with Scotland Act – Full original text
 Treaty of Union and the Darien Experiment, University of Guelph, McLaughlin Library, Library and Archives Canada
 
 
 Union with England Act 1707, from Records of the Parliaments of Scotland
 Image of original act from the Parliamentary Archives website