[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# European Union–United States relations

most Americans see China as a rival (52%) or an enemy (38%), Europeans have more mixed attitudes toward China, according to a recent Pew Research Center study. On average, 43% of Europeans see China as "a necessary partner" compared to 24% who see the country as a rival or 11% as an enemy.

Resolved

Banana wars 
The EU and the US have had a long-running dispute over the EU's banana imports. As part of their international aid, the EU offered tenders, on a first-come-first-served basis, for bananas from countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific. The United States argued that it favored local producers in former colonies of EU member-states over US-owned corporations in Latin America. The Clinton administration responded by imposing heavy tariffs on luxury goods created in the EU. Such goods included cashmere from Scotland and French Cognac brandy, made in the original constituency of then Prime Minister of France Jean-Pierre Raffarin. The Clinton administration then took the banana wars to the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1999, after Chiquita made a $500,000 donation to the Democratic Party. The two sides reached an agreement in 2001.

Delegations 

Diplomatic relations are maintained between the US and the EU, as an independent body, as well as all EU member states.

The EU is represented in the US by the Delegation of the European Union to the United States in Washington, D.C. Opened in 1954, it was the first overseas delegation of the EU's forerunner, the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC). The current EU ambassador to the United States, since 2014, is David O'Sullivan. Additionally, all 27 EU member states have an embassy in Washington, D.C.

The United States' diplomatic mission to the EU is the United States Mission to the European Union in Brussels. The current US ambassador to the EU, since 2014, is Anthony Gardner. The United States established a diplomatic mission to the ECSC in 1956 in the city of Luxembourg and, in 1961, the United States Mission to the European Communities in Brussels. The US has embassies in all 27 EU member states.

The Transatlantic Economic Council is a bilateral forum for economic cooperation between the EU and US established during the 2007 US-EU Summit. It meets at least once per year and is jointly headed by the US Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economic Affairs and the EU's Commissioner for Trade.

Diplomacy 

The US and the EU share two different approaches to diplomacy. The scholar Michael Smith defined the US as a "warrior state". This refers to its diplomatic approach based on sovereignty, state action and the use of military capabilities. On the other hand, the EU displays a diplomacy which is one of a "trading state". This means that EU diplomacy focuses on soft power, negotiation and trade. The EU diplomatic style reflects the fact that there is not a strong and cohesive foreign policy among its member states. The US and EU diplomatic features are also reflected in their relations with the United Nations. The EU relies more on the permission of the UN in order to use force abroad while the US adopts a position of opposition towards UN authorization for interference.

See also 

 Transatlantic relations
 European Union–NATO relations
 Transatlantic Free Trade Area
 Élysée Treaty
 Strategic autonomy
 NATO
 Cold War
 War on Terror

References

Further reading
 Birchfield, Vicki L., and Alasdair R. Young, eds. Triangular Diplomacy among the United States, the European Union, and the Russian Federation (Palgrave Macmillan, 2018).
 Gardner, Anthony Luzzatto. Stars with stripes: The essential partnership between the European Union and the United States (Springer Nature, 2020).
 Gasparini, Amedeo. "Challenges under the Biden administration in the US-EU transatlantic relations." Global Affairs 7.3 (2021): 411-417. online
 GÖRGEN, Ahmet. "US-EU Relations in the Trump Era: Quest for Autonomy in Europe." Journal of Graduate School of Social Sciences 25.4 (2021). online
 Jakštaitė-Confortola, Gerda. "US Foreign Policy during the Biden Presidency: A Reset in the US Approach towards the EU Strategic Autonomy?." European Strategic Autonomy and Small States' Security (Routledge, 2022) pp. 81-92. online
 Larres, Klaus. Uncertain Allies: Nixon, Kissinger, and the Threat of a United Europe (Yale University Press, 2022).
 Lundestad, Geir. The United States and Western Europe since 1945: from 'empire' by invitation to transatlantic drift (Oxford University Press, 2005).
 Lundestad, Geir, ed. Just Another Major Crisis?: The United States and Europe Since 2000 (2008) online
 McCormick, John. The European superpower (Macmillan Education UK, 2017). online
 Smith, Michael. "The European Union and the United States: Competition, convergence and crisis in a strategic relationship." in The European Union's Strategic Partnerships: Global Diplomacy in a Contested World (2021) pp: 97-120. online