[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Masterbook

dspeak Dossier (1995) - A gamemaster companion for The World of Necroscope that further details the espionage horror/thriller gameworld. It also contains new espionage skills and abilities. 
Wamphyri (1996) - A guidebook detailing the Wamphyri race. 
The E-Branch Guide to Psionics (1996) - Psionics rules and new equipment. Includes 15 psychic character templates and a MasterBook to D6 System conversion guide.
Operation: Nightside (1997) - A globe-spanning campaign for The World of Necroscope.
The World of Species box set (1995)
The World of Tank Girl box set (1995)
The World of Tales from the Crypt box set (1996) 
Cryptic Campaigns (1996) - New adventures for use with the worldbook.

MasterBook 2E (2011)
In 2011, MasterBook was re-printed by Precis Intermedia Gaming. They are currently working on an improved second edition, called MasterBook 2E, and have released a free simplified version, called MasterBook EZ.

In 2016 Precis Intermedia printed the new Bloodshadows 3rd Edition worldbook. It has conversion rules for use with the Active Exploits and MasterBook EZ rules.

Reception
In the March 1995 edition of Dragon (Issue #215), Rick Swan was not enthusiastic about the rules, which he found too derivative of the rules from Shatterzone that he had roundly criticized in a previous edition of Dragon. But while Swan found the rules less complex than the original Shatterzone rules, he still found that "while less confusing [than Shatterzone, Masterbook] can't get over its love affair with charts and numbers." He did find several strong elements, including "a well-written text, an intriguing selection of skills, [and] a clever use of cards."  And he lauded the included card deck, which he found "inventive, fun to use, and in contrast to the rest of the rulebook, blessedly succinct." He concluded by giving the book an average rating of 4 out of 6, saying, "even with its flaws, the Masterbook system remains a solid, versatile game with strong characters and clever concepts. The designers just didn’t know when to quit."

There were two core rule books. One was included with the boxed sets and the other was sold separately. Apart from the cover, they were both identical. A Companion book also compiled rules from the boxed set world books. The world books were only available in their dedicated box sets. This may have had an effect on sales, due to the world books not being available separately.

There were several licensed properties released using the Masterbook, but only Bloodshadows and World of Indiana Jones found success. These two were both later rewritten for West End Games D6 system, which had been adapted from their more popular Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game.

Other reviews
Shadis #26 (April, 1996)
Pyramid

References

External links
The Masterbook Community

 
Role-playing game systems
Universal role-playing games
West End Games games