[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Macau Special Administrative Region passport

The Macao Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China passport (; ) is a passport issued to Chinese citizens who are permanent residents of the Chinese Special Administrative Region of Macau.

In accordance with Macau Basic Law, since the transfer of sovereignty over Macau on 20 December 1999, this passport has been issued by the Identification Services Bureau (under the Secretariat for Administration and Justice) of the government of Macau under the prerogative of the Central People's Government of the People's Republic of China.

The official languages of Macau are Portuguese and Chinese; consequently, all the passport's text is in Traditional Chinese characters and Portuguese in addition to English.

Historical background 
According to the nationality law of the People's Republic of China and the explanations given for some questions by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress concerning the implementation of nationality law in Macau, any Macau permanent resident holding Chinese nationality can apply for the Macau SAR passport.

Many residents of Macau also possess Portuguese citizenship by virtue of being born in Macau before 3 October 1981, naturalization, or being born to parents with Portuguese citizenship in Macau. Such citizens are also eligible for, and often hold, a Portuguese passport, which grants more visa-free countries than the MSAR passport as well as permitting free movement of passport holders in the European Union.

Physical features 
The 2nd version of the passport, a biometric passport, was first issued by the Identification Services Bureau at the start of September 2009, replacing the previous machine-readable type.

The cover of the passport is coloured bottle green with the National Emblem of the People's Republic of China emblazoned centermost at the front. The passport's front cover is inscribed with the titles of the PRC and the SAR in ;  and . Each passport consists of 48 numbered pages of size  emprinted with artistic designs featuring Macau's world culture heritage sites.

Besides personal data, the supplemental page of passport is printed with the picture and fingerprint of that holder.

Application procedure 
Macau SAR passports are only issued by the Identification Services Bureau in Macau. An applicant must fill out an application form, possess a Macau SAR Permanent Resident Identity Card and two recent 1½-inch colour photos along with (if replacing an old passport) their prior Macau SAR Passport.

Qualified applicants can apply in Macau or overseas if necessary.

Use

Mainland China 
Although MSAR passport is endorsed by Chinese government, the Ministry of Public Security does not accept MSAR passports for traveling between the mainland and Macau, since both mainland and Macau authorities agreed that using a passport for 'domestic' travel is 'unnecessary' and 'inappropriate'. However, those who are eligible for a Macau SAR passport are also eligible to apply for a Mainland Travel Permit for Hong Kong and Macao Residents (colloquially known as a Home Return Permit through the Chinese Ministry of Public Security (MPS) which serves as a travel document to travel to the mainland, which is represented in Macau by the China Travel Service. The issuance is entirely at the discretion of the MPS, and so the possession of a Macau SAR passport does not necessarily guarantee the issuing of a Home Return Permit.

Macao residents who travel to the mainland from a third country without Home Return Permit may obtain Chinese Travel Document from the overseas Chinese embassies or consulates prior to travel.

Hong Kong 
Regardless of their citizenship status, Macau permanent residents do not need passports to enter Hong Kong. Instead, residents must bring their permanent ID card, which grants 180-day visa free access to Hong Kong. Non-permanent residents can use a Visit Permit for Residents of Macao to HKSAR to enter Hong Kong for up to 30 days visa-free

Overseas 

According to Macau's Identity Services Bureau, as of January 2018 Macau SAR passport holders enjoy visa-free access to 136 countries and territories worldwide, including all Member States of the European Union, Brazil, Japan, Malaysia, Russia, Singapore, South Africa and South Korea.  According to the Henley Passport Index, in 2019 the Macau SAR passport was ranked as the 36th most powerful passport worldwide; in contrast, the Hong Kong SAR passport was ranked 19th, while the PRC passport was ranked 74th.

As Chinese citizens, holders of a Macau Special Administrative Region passport are entitled to full consular protection by Chinese foreign missions abroad.