[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maine Department of Defense, Veterans, and Emergency Management

The larger units in the state specialize in:
 Engineering and construction - 133rd Engineer Battalion
 Aviation - 142nd & 126th Aviation Companies

Smaller unit's specialties include:
 Military police
 Transportation and maintenance
 Infantry
 Headquarters related support units
 Full List of Units

In addition, the Maine National Guard includes the 11th Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team. The 11th WMD CST was of the first of the now 57 teams that are spread across the United States of America that is tasked with immediate, less than 4 hour response to any unknown chemical, biological, and/or radiological incident. The joint Army/Air Guard team can self-sustain for 72 hours of continuous operation and is constantly training to stay on top of the technology and techniques for sampling, evidence collection, identification, and education of the possibilities that the team may be alerted for.

Maine Air National Guard
The Maine Air National Guard is the air force militia of the U.S. state of Maine. It is, along with the Maine Army National Guard, an element of the Maine National Guard. It is considered a part of the United States Air Force, as well as its state mission.

Today, the Maine Air National Guard consists of three units:
 101st Air Refueling Wing, at Bangor ANGB (the former Dow Air Force Base) which operates the KC-135R.
 243rd Engineering and Installation Squadron.
 265th Combat Communications Squadron, both based in South Portland, ME.

Maine Emergency Management Agency
At the State level MEMA coordinates the mitigation (risk reduction) preparedness, response and recovery from emergencies and disasters such as floods, hurricanes, earthquakes or hazardous materials spills.

MEMA also provides guidance, and assistance to county and local governments, businesses and nonprofit organizations in their efforts to provide protection to citizen and property, and increase resiliency in the face of disaster. The Agency uses strategies such as planning, training, exercise and public education to carry out its mission.

Since 2001, MEMA has been the focal point for the implementation of programs regarding Homeland Security, integrating these concerns into its all-hazard mission.

Maine State Guard

The Maine State Guard is the currently-inactive state defense force of Maine, which replaced the Maine National Guard and performed their stateside duties during World War II and the Vietnam War. The state guard is currently inactive. However, it may be reactivated at the Governor's discretion.

References

External links
 Maine Army National Guard
 Maine Air National Guard
Bibliography of Maine Army National Guard History compiled by the United States Army Center of Military History

Defense
Emergency management in the United States