[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joe Donnelly

Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government-Sponsored Enterprises
 Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade
 Committee on Veterans' Affairs
 Subcommittee on Health
 Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations (Ranking Member)

U.S. Senate (2013–2019)

Elections

2012 

On May 8, 2012, Donnelly ran unopposed for the Democratic nomination for the U.S. Senate after acknowledging the difficulty of winning reelection in his new home district drawn per the 2010 census. He faced a Tea Party favorite, Indiana State Treasurer Richard Mourdock, who had defeated six-term incumbent Richard Lugar in the Republican primary, and Libertarian nominee Andy Horning.

An issue in the campaign was the auto bailout of 2009, which Donnelly supported and Mourdock said was unconstitutional. Donnelly fashioned himself "a common-sense Hoosier" in the tradition of Richard Lugar and Evan Bayh.

Donnelly was endorsed by The Journal Gazette and the South Bend Tribune.

During the campaign, Mourdock became embroiled in a controversy after stating that pregnancy from rape is "something that God intended". His remarks were made in a debate on October 23, 2012, during which he explained his opposition to abortion even in the case of rape.

On November 6, 2012, Donnelly defeated Mourdock, 50% to 44%.

2018 

Donnelly ran for reelection against Republican Mike Braun and Libertarian Lucy Brenton. Braun won the election. After the election, Donnelly stated that the debacle his fellow Democrats created during the confirmation hearings of Brett Kavanaugh's nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court was a contributing factor to his defeat.

Tenure

On January 3, 2013, Donnelly was sworn into the United States Senate in the 113th Congress by Vice President Joe Biden. Donnelly was the first Democrat to hold his seat since Vance Hartke's defeat by Richard Lugar in 1977. The Lugar Center, a Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit Lugar founded in 2013, ranked Donnelly the fourth most bipartisan Senator in the first session of the 115th United States Congress as well as the most bipartisan Democrat in the Senate.

Committee assignments
 Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry
 Subcommittee on Commodities, Markets, Trade and Risk Management (Ranking Member)
 Subcommittee on Jobs, Rural Economic Growth and Energy Innovation
 Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy, Poultry, Marketing and Agriculture Security
 Committee on Armed Services
 Subcommittee on Airland
 Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities
 Subcommittee on Strategic Forces (Ranking Member)
 Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
 Subcommittee on Housing, Transportation, and Community Development
 Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection
 Subcommittee on Securities, Insurance, and Investment
 Special Committee on Aging

Political positions
Donnelly was considered a moderate Democrat who "sometimes bucks his party on issues such as abortion, defense spending and the environment". According to Politico, "Donnelly is constantly dogged by Republicans aiming to unseat him" while also facing "disgruntled Democrats who think he's far too conservative". In 2013, the National Journal gave Donnelly a composite score of 52% conservative and 48% liberal. According to FiveThirtyEight, which tracks Congressional votes, Donnelly voted with President Trump's position 54.5% of the time. Congressional Quarterly published a study finding that Donnelly voted with Trump's positions 62% of the time. According to GovTrack, Donnelly was the second most conservative Democrat, after Joe Manchin, and to the right of moderate Republican Senator Susan Collins. He supported progressive taxation and organized labor, but opposed same-sex marriage and abortion, even in the case of rape, during his 2012 campaign (though he supported an exception in the case of rape in the 2018 campaign). On April 5, 2013, Donnelly endorsed same-sex marriage on his Facebook page.

Economic policy

Taxes
In February 2009, Donnelly voted for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.

Donnelly voted against the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011 (a two-month extension of an expiring provision from the American Recovery Act, forestalling an increase in the payroll tax from 4.2% to 6.2%); he voted for the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (a one-year extension of the same provision). In 2012 Donnelly also voted for H.R. 9, the Small Business Tax Cut Act, which would allow businesses with fewer than 500 employees to receive a tax deduction equal to 20% of their domestic business income.