[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# Eikev

of the spirits of all flesh, set a man over the congregation, who may go out before them, and who may come in before them, and who may lead them out, and who may bring them in; that the congregation of the Lord be not as sheep which have no shepherd,'" as those two verses contain 28 words in Hebrew.

Deuteronomy chapter 10
Maimonides and the siddur report that the Levites would recite the Psalm for the Day in the Temple.

Rashi taught that it was on the first day of Elul that God told Moses, in the words of Exodus 34:2, “In the morning you shall ascend Mount Sinai,” to receive the second tablets, and Moses spent 40 days there, as reported in Deuteronomy 10:10, "And I remained upon the mountain just as the first days." And on Yom Kippur, God was placated toward Israel and told Moses, in the words of Numbers 14:20, "I have forgiven, as you have spoken."

Citing Deuteronomy 10:12, 10:19, and 11:13, Baḥya ibn Paquda taught that to love God and to love the stranger are leading examples of a duties of the heart.

Reading the description of God by Moses in Deuteronomy 10:17–18, "For the Lord your God is God supreme and Lord supreme, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who . . . upholds the cause of the fatherless and the widow," Baḥya ibn Paquda argued we can see that God possesses these attributes from the evidence of God's deeds towards God's creations and from the wisdom and power that God's deeds reflect. But Baḥya cautioned that one must be careful not to take descriptions of God's attributes literally or in a physical sense. Rather, one must know that they are metaphors, geared to what we are capable of grasping with our powers of understanding, because of our urgent need to know God. But God is infinitely greater and loftier than all of these attributes.

Deuteronomy chapter 11
Maimonides cited Deuteronomy 11:13 to support the proposition that it is a positive Torah commandment to pray every day, for Exodus 23:25 states: “You shall serve God, your Lord,” and tradition teaches that this service is prayer, as Deuteronomy 11:13 says, "And serve Him with all your heart," and our Sages said that the service of the heart is prayer.

In modern interpretation
The parashah is discussed in these modern sources:

Deuteronomy chapter 7
Harold Fisch argued that William Shakespeare echoed the command of Deuteronomy 7:18, "you shall well remember," in the ghost's admonition to Prince Hamlet, "Remember me," in Hamlet 1:5:98.

Robert Oden taught that the idea that spoils of holy war were devoted to God (, cherem) evident in Leviticus 27:28–29, Numbers 18:14, and Deuteronomy 7:26 was revelatory of (1) as "to the victor belong the spoils," then since God owned the spoils, then God must have been the victor and not any human being, and (2) the sacred and religiously obligatory nature of holy war, as participants gained no booty as a motivation for participation.

Deuteronomy chapter 8
Moshe Alshich noted that Deuteronomy 8:14 appears to repeat Deuteronomy 8:11, "Be careful lest you forget the Lord your God." Alshich explained that the evil urge (, yetzer hara) works repetitively to subvert a person's character. The evil urge knows that it is easier to subvert successful people into believing in the success of their own efforts than to convince people of average means that they do not need God. Alshich taught that Deuteronomy 8:11–19 thus reflects the way that the evil urge works. The process of moving away from serving God can be gradual, almost imperceptibly slow. It can start not by failing to observe the commandments, but by failing to see them as God's will. Thus Deuteronomy 8:11 reflects that one can observe the commandments only for the sake of obtaining the reward that the Torah promises. Deuteronomy 8:12 reflects the next step that one might eat and be satisfied without giving credit to God. After this, as Deuteronomy 8:17 reports, one might give one's self credit for one's success. Still later, in Deuteronomy 8:19, one might give credit to idols. Moses thus warns against the insidious, indirect way that the evil urge attacks.

Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch read the word "power" (, koach) in Deuteronomy 8:18 to comprehend everything that makes up one's creative personality and capacity to earn—intelligence, skill, foresight, health—and explained that this comes not from the food that one eats but directly from God. And the external circumstances that bring about success depend on God alone. Hirsch taught that the very smallest part of one's good fortune can be ascribed to one's own merit, and more is due to the merit of one's ancestors, whose virtues God rewards with their descendants' good fortune.