[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Weeping Willow (Law & Order: Criminal Intent)

Lenz also stands in for YouTube in the pilot episode of Smash. Willow's friend tells police she found her apartment on Craigslist, a popular online classified advertising website. During the first WeepingWillow17 video shown in the episode's first scene, the song "Fearless" by The Bravery is played.

Ira Whipple (Gary Patent) says, "In cyberspace, everyone hears you scream", a reference to the tagline of the 1979 film Alien: "In space, no one can hear you scream." A New York Film Academy professor refers to Holden as a "James Cameron-wannabe", referring to the American director of such films as The Terminator and Aliens. The vlog in which Holden's ear is cut off is described by one characters as a rip-off of director Quentin Tarantino, a reference to his 1992 feature film debut, Reservoir Dogs. During an interrogation, Mike Logan sarcastically refers to Reggie as James Dean, the famous actor and American cultural icon. Captain Danny Ross refers to the episode's shooting as "cyber-Rashomon. Reggie says Holden shot Todd, Holden says Reggie did it and Willow doesn't even believe anyone's dead." This references the 1950 Japanese film Rashomon, in which multiple characters describe vastly different interpretations of the same murder. A poster for Grand Illusion, the 1932 Jean Renoir war film, hangs in Holden's apartment. In the episode's final scene, Willow is interviewed by CNN journalist Larry King, host of Larry King Live, which is shown on a giant scene in Times Square.

Reception
In its original American broadcast, "Weeping Willow" received a Nielsen rating of 3.1 and an 8 share in adults aged 18–49, translating to 9.8 million households overall. The rating was the highest overall viewership for a Law & Order: Criminal Intent episode since "Bedfellows" aired on October 17, 2006. The episode received generally positive reviews. Farah Farouque of The Age said although she feels Law & Order: Criminal Intent had largely dropped in overall quality, she described "Weeping Willow" as "very postmodern and very watchable". Likewise, Todd Thatcher of TV Guide said although the sixth season of Criminal Intent had several episodes he deemed failures, he called "Weeping Willow" one of the "true gems". Canada's National Post said "Weeping Willow" had an interesting plot and listed it as a "must see". David Bianculli, of the New York Daily News, wrote, "The twist is easy to see coming, but Trachtenberg is easy to watch, regardless."

Notes and references

External links

 
 FreeWillow17.com
Official Website

2006 American television episodes
Law & Order: Criminal Intent (season 6) episodes