[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# American Samoa Fono

, while the delegate from Swains Island is elected in an open meeting, all for two-year terms. Voters must be U.S. nationals, be at least 18 years of age, have resided in American Samoa for at least two years, and resided in the same district for at least one year immediately preceding the election.

Elections are held in the first Tuesday after November 1 in even years, the same as federal and most state elections. Ballots contain only the names of the candidates, without political parties. First-past-the-post voting is used: each voter votes for up to the same number of candidates as the number of representatives to be elected in the district (one or two), and such number of candidates with the highest number of votes are elected. Ties are decided by lot.

Districts
For the House of Representatives, each district consists of one or more whole counties, part of a county, or Swains Island. Each House district elects one or two members. For the Senate, each district consists of one or more whole counties, electing one, two or three members.

Reapportionment
The number of representatives and senators per district, set by the constitution in 1967, was roughly proportional to their population in the census of 1960, the most recent at the time. Although the constitution states that "Senators and representatives shall be reapportioned by law at intervals of not less than 5 years", such reapportionment has never been made. Therefore, as a result of population changes, the representation of some counties has become disproportional. The largest discrepancies occur in the counties of the Manu‘a islands, whose population has significantly decreased, and in Tualauta, whose population has increased much more than the rest of the territory. In 2017 and 2018, proposals were made to add one or two representatives from Tualauta, while possibly reducing one representative from Manu‘a.

Proposals have also been made to restore two additional senators from Manu‘a, resulting in the five senators (one per county) that Manu‘a had before the constitutional revision of 1967. The Fono rejected such a proposal in 2017.

Building

The first American Samoa Fono was housed in the former home at the United States Navy Tutuila Station barracks in Fagatogo. It was destroyed by a fire in 1970. The former Fono site is home to the ANZ Amerika Samoa Bank's Head Office.

The second Fono opened in 1973, also in Fagatogo. It was housed at the Maota Fono complex, a beehive shaped building based on the traditional Samoan fale. It was based on the same traditional building designs as the Fono in Samoa. A two-story main wing (housing the Legislature's and Governor's offices) was flanked by two single-story wings housing the chambers from the Senate and the House of Representatives. The building was demolished in 2017.

A new building broke ground in 2018 and is under construction as of January 2021 as a two-story cement building. The cost will be US$16 million. Additional buildings would be built for legislators' offices.

See also
List of state and territorial capitols in the United States

References

 
Territorial legislatures of the United States
American Samoa
Pago Pago
Tutuila