[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2009 European Parliament election

Nations
The Union for Europe of the Nations (UEN) was a parliamentary group which traced its ancestry back to its origins as a Gaullist ideological alignment. It was not reconstituted following this election. The associated Alliance for Europe of the Nations (AEN) party lost MEPs to other groupings.

The largest single contributor of MEPs to the UEN group, the Italian National Alliance, merged with Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia party to form the People of Freedom (PdL) on 29 March 2009. The combined party belonged to the EPP and the MEPs elected in 2009 sat in that parliamentary grouping. This move came after a series of attempts by National Alliance to abandon more staunchly national conservatism and Eurosceptic parties and move towards the moderate European centre-right, including a previous application for EPP membership.

Ireland's Fianna Fáil joined the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party (ELDR) on 16 April 2009. Fianna Fáil has long been a proponent of European integration and was openly uncomfortable about its European affiliation, with former leader Bertie Ahern often distancing his party from the right-wing positions of his groupmates and describing UEN as purely a "technical arrangement." Fianna Fáil very nearly joined ALDE during the group reshuffle after the 2004 European elections, and had also previously explored seeking membership in ELDR.

Other significant sources of the group's MEPs were Poland's Self-Defence of the Republic of Poland party and Latvia's For Fatherland and Freedom party subsequently joined the European Conservatives and Reformists group.

European Democrats
The European Democrats group, which had previously sat with the European People's Party's parliament group was dissolved after the election. The group's three political parties:  the United Kingdom's Conservatives and Ulster Unionists and the Czech Civic Democrats, left to found the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists. The group's only other MEP, an Italian from the Pensioners' Party, failed to win reelection.

Socialist Party
The Italian Democratic Party was founded in 2007 from two parties in the Olive coalition decided to merge: Democrats of the Left and Democracy is Freedom – The Daisy a socialist and a liberal party respectively. The merged resulted in disagreements over which European political party the Democratic Party would belong to, with many former members of the Daisy party objection to member of the Party of European Socialists (PES). Eventually it was agreed that the party would sit with the PES in the European Parliament but not join the party. The new parliamentary grouping was originally going to be called the "Alliance of Socialists and Democrats for Europe", but this name was too similar to the name of the liberal group, the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, so the name was changed to Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats (S&D).

The Democratic Party (DIKO) of Cyprus, which had previously sat with Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe joined the S&D after the 2009 elections but remained outside of a pan-European political party.

Parliamentary groups 2009 

The following changes occurred, which makes the make-up of the groups as follows:
 ALDE, Greens-EFA and EUL-NGL continue to exist.
 ECR is constituted
 PES becomes S&D.
 EPP-ED becomes EPP again
 I/D is replaced by EFD
 UEN is disbanded.

Parliament president
In the first vote of the new Parliament Jerzy Buzek (EPP, Poland) was elected Parliament President, winning with 555 to 89 votes over his opponent Eva-Britt Svensson (EUL-NGL, Sweden).

The two candidates were:
For the right of centre European People's Party, former Polish PM Jerzy Buzek was nominated by his group EPP-ED and supported by the PES and ALDE groups.
On the left, Swedish MEP Eva Britt Svensson was nominated by her group EUL-NGL.

MEPs voted in a secret ballot on Tuesday morning 14 July 2009.

The two largest groups in Parliament, the EPP-ED and PES, agreed to share the post of President of the European Parliament as they have done for all but two terms of Parliament. The first half of the term was taken by Jerzy Buzek MEP of the EPP, who was the first MEP from Eastern Europe to hold the post. He passed it over to Martin Schulz MEP, the current leader of PES. The deal got support form The ALDE group (their candidate Graham Watson dropped out from the race).

The other official candidate was Eva-Britt Svensson, nominated from EUL-NGL. She campaigned with the slogan "a different voice". She was the first MEP from Sweden to candidate to the position.

References