[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rise the Euphrates

nian heritage, Seta dreams of the women who were at the Euphrates River the day Casard forgot her name. The women tell the story of what Casard was only able to verbalize as “the indignities”. When she wakes up from her dream, Seta has recovered Casard's name, Garod, which she then relays to Araxie.

Major themes 
Matrilineal approach – In Rise the Euphrates, the main characters are all women. Seta discovers her Armenian heritage by interacting with her mother and grandmother. In other words, the book is concerned with a matrilineal approach. Commonly found in Armenian-American literature is what is known as a patrilineal approach. This means the main characters are typically male. The characters discover their Armenian heritage through interactions with fathers and grandfathers rather than mothers and grandmothers. Common to the patrilineal approach is the idea of discovering the Armenian homeland. In the matrilineal approach, discovering identity is highlighted. Each of these, discovering the Armenian homeland and discovering sources of identity, are ways to reconcile- comes to terms with – the Armenian Genocide.

Oral storytelling – For hundreds of years in Armenia, Armenians maintained their sense of identity through the Armenian language and the Armenian Apostolic Church. In the United States this did not change. For Armenians living in the United States, much of Armenian culture is still kept alive through language and religion. Because of the importance of language to the culture, stories and oral story telling are very important. In Rise the Euphrates, the stories themselves are an integral part of the book. The emphasis in the book is on Casard's story; however, through the other stories Edgarian includes, the reader will further understand Armenian culture and the tradition of storytelling.

Betrayal myth – A central myth in Carol Edgarian's Rise the Euphrates is the betrayal myth. Edgarian names several betrayal myths in her book, among them, the biblical stories of Cain and Abel, and Judas and Christ.

Awards and nominations

1994 ANC Freedom Award.

Nominated for the Bay Area Book Reviewers Best Fiction Prize.

See Armenian American literature

1994 American novels
Armenian novels
Armenian American literature
Family saga novels
Novels set in Connecticut
Random House books
Novels by Carol Edgarian