[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Operation Astute

on, Royal Australian Regiment returns to Townsville after being deployed to Timor Leste. Further soldiers from the 3rd Combat Signal Regiment are scheduled to return later in the week.

 28 August
 It is announced that 44 New Zealand military personnel will return home from Timor Leste on 31 August.

September 2006
 7 September
 It is announced that a rifle company from 1 RAR will be deployed to Timor Leste by 9 September to reinforce the Australian-led force following Alfredo Reinado's escape from prison on 30 August.

 19 September
 The final elements of the Australian Army Battle Group Faithful return to Australia having been replaced by the ANZAC Battle Group led by the 6th Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment.

October 2006
 26 October
 Brigadier Mal Rerden takes command of Joint Task Force 631, replacing Brigadier Mick Slater.

December 2006
 17 December
 Protests against UN troops intensify after they are accused of being responsible for the killing of a rebel gang member during factional clashes.

January 2007
26 January
 Australia, East Timor, and the United Nations sign a memorandum of understanding under which Operation Astute continues and the United Nations Integrated Mission in East Timor supports and helps to develop East Timor's police force.

March 2007
 4 March
 After cornering Reinado at a compound in Same, Australian Special Forces enter the town and conduct an assault. Reinado evades capture but five of his men are killed in the Battle of Same. The Timor Leste government subsequently called off the manhunt, preferring to pursue a dialogue with the rebels instead.

May 2007
9 May
 Australian forces successfully supervise round two elections, with no reports of violence.

10 May
 An unmanned Australian spy plane on operations over East Timor crashes into a house in the densely populated eastern suburb of Becora in Dili. Military helicopters were quickly sent to locate the wreckage, and an investigation was scheduled to begin the next day into whether the crash was due to technical failure or operator error.

August 2007
2 August
Brigadier John Hutcheson takes over command from Brigadier Mal Rerden.

January 2008
31 January

Brigadier James Baker takes over command from Brigadier John Hutcheson.

July 2008

31 July
Brigadier Mark Holmes takes over command.

January 2009
16 January
Brigadier Bill Sowry takes over command from Brigadier Mark Holmes.

Military units involved
Operation Astute is an Australian military operation. While the Malaysian and New Zealand contingents operate under overall Australian command, the Portuguese contingent operates under Portuguese national command. The initial Australian units deployed as part of the operation fell under the operational command of Brigadier Michael Slater, the commander of the Australian 3rd Brigade. The major unit involved in land operations was the 3rd Battalion under its commanding officer, Lieutenant Colonel Mick Mumford. This force was replaced in early September 2006 by a battalion group based around the 6th Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment designated the ANZAC Battle Group.

Australia

Australian Army

Australia currently has approximately 404 personnel deployed to Timor-Leste, the majority of whom are formed into the ANZAC Battle Group, named due to the presence of a rifle company from the New Zealand Army integrated in its structure.
 Headquarters Joint Task Force 631
 Elements, 1st Military Police Battalion
 ANZAC Battle Group: This battle group includes elements of other units:
 Headquarters, 1st Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment
 B Company, 1st Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment
 C Company, 1st Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment
 Victor Company, 1st Battalion, Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment
 Battery, 16th Air Defence Regiment (operating as infantry)
 Elements, 4th Field Regiment, Royal Australian Artillery
 Elements, 17 Construction Squadron, Royal Australian Engineers
 Elements, B Squadron, 3rd/4th Cavalry Regiment
 Elements, B Squadron, 5th Aviation Regiment
 Troop, 1st Aviation Regiment