[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mirza Fatali Akhundov

had 13 children of whom only 2 (Nisa and Rashid) reached maturity. His second marriage was to Nazli Beyim, a descendant of Javad Khan, with whom he fathered Sayrabayim. He married off both Nisa and Sayrabayim to Khan Baba Mirza from the Bahmani family. His grandson Fatali was purged in 1938.

Legacy

Besides his role in Azerbaijani literature and Iranian nationalism, Akhundzadeh was also known for his harsh criticisms of religions (mainly Islam) and stays as the most iconic Azerbaijani atheist. National Library of Azerbaijan and Azerbaijan State Academic Opera and Ballet Theatre, as well as a couple of streets, parks, and libraries, are also named after Akhundzade in Azerbaijan. A cultural museum in Tbilisi, Georgia that focuses on Georgian-Azerbaijani cultural relations is also named after him.

Punik, a town in Armenia was also named in the honour of Akhundzade until very recently. TURKSOY hosted a groundbreaking ceremony to declare 2012 as the year of Mirza Fatali Akhundzade.

House Museum

Mirza Fatali Akhundov's house museum is the house museum of Mirza Fatali Akhundov, an Azerbaijani writer, educator, poet, materialist philosopher and public figure, founder of Azerbaijani drama and literary criticism in Azerbaijani literature, located in Sheki. Akhundov was born in this house and spent his childhood and adolescence here. This museum is also the first memorial museum opened in Azerbaijan.

History 
The house was built in 1800. In 1811, it was taken by Mirza Fatali Akhundov's father Mirza Mohammad Taghi. Mirza Fatali Akhundov was born here in 1812. Two years later, Akhundov's father moved with his family to Khamna village near Tabriz. Mirza Fatali's parents divorced when he was 13 years old. Later, in 1825, Akhundov returned to Sheki with his family. From this period, his mother's uncle Akhund Haji Alasgar began to take care of him. In 1833 he entered the Russian school opened in Sheki, and after studying there for a year he went to Tbilisi in 1834. In 1940, a museum was established in this house. In 2012, in honor of the 200th anniversary of Akhundov, the museum was overhauled.

Description 
The house museum of Mirza Fatali Akhundov in Sheki is the first memorial museum opened in Azerbaijan. The museum consisted of two small interlocking rooms. There is another building near the house. It was built later and an exposition on the life and work of the great writer was created here. M. F. Akhundov's house museum consists of 2 buildings, an exposition hall dedicated to his life and work and the house where Akhundov was born.

The house was built of raw brick in the Sheki architectural tradition around 1800 and consists of two rooms, a balcony and a basement. There is a wooden structure between the floors. The stove also shows that the building was built in an oriental style. Antiques are exhibited in the rooms. In the past, there were stone and brick walls in the yard, a brick arched gate in the eastern style, and another two-storey, basement house made of raw bricks belonging to Mirza Fatali Akhundzadeh's cousins.

The Exposition Hall was built in 1975. The house-museum of Mirza Fatali Akhundzadeh was repaired in 2011–2012. The museum displays 248 exhibits.

Photos

Bibliography
Major works:

 Комедии Мирзы Фетъ-Али-Ахундова (Comedies of Mirza Fatali Akhundov). Tiflis, 1853.
 Tamsīlāt-i Kaputan Mīrzā Fath-ʿAlī Āḵūndzāda (Collection of plays of Mirza Fatali Akhundzade). Tiflis, 1860.

Works on literary criticism:
 Qirītīkah (Criticism)
 Risālah-i īrād (Fault-finding treatise)
 Fann-i kirītīkah (Art of criticism)
 Darbārah-i Mullā-yi Rūmī va tasnīf-i ū (On Rumi and his work)
 Darbārah-i nazm va nasr (On verse and prose)
 Fihrist-i kitāb (Preface to the book)
 Maktūb bih Mīrzā Āqā Tabrīzī (Letter to Mīrzā Āqā Tabrīzī)
 Uṣūl-i nigārish (Principles of writing)

See also 
 Mirza Fatali Akhundov National Library of Azerbaijan
 Mirza Fatali Akhundov State Prize of the Azerbaijan SSR

References

Further reading

External links 
 Biography.
 Akhundov: Alphabet Reformer Before His Time, Azerbaijan International, Vol 8:1 (Spring 2000).
 http://mirslovarei.com/content_fil/AXUNDOV-MIRZA-FATALI-2072.html

Azerbaijani-language writers
19th-century Persian-language writers
Writers from the Russian Empire
Iranian male writers
19th-century Iranian philosophers
Philosophers from the Russian Empire
Iranian Azerbaijanis
Iranian atheists
Azerbaijani atheists
Atheist philosophers
Iranian nationalists
Iranian revolutionaries
People of the Persian Constitutional Revolution
1812 births
1878 deaths
People from Shaki, Azerbaijan
19th-century Azerbaijani philosophers
19th-century atheists
Former Muslims turned agnostics or atheists
Former Muslim critics of Islam
Burials at Pantheon of prominent Azerbaijanis
Azerbaijani Persian-language writers