[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1995 Belarusian referendum

), the national symbols and official language were not allowed to be questioned on a referendum at all;
Formalities of approval of the referendum by the Parliament have not been carried out;
The opposition had limited access to media, observers from the opposition have reported fraud in vote counts.

The opposition raised several other issues related to organisation of the referendum:
The referendum was preceded by a heavy campaign in the overwhelmingly state-owned media that stressed the fact that the then current emblem was used by Nazi collaborators (Belarusian Central Council) during the Great Patriotic War. For example, the first leader of the post-Soviet Belarus, Stanislav Shushkevich, in an interview mentioned that Pahonia was portrayed by the state-owned media then as a "fascist symbol".
Before the final announcement of the results of the referendum, Lukashenko's Chief of Administration Ivan Titenkov personally hoisted down the old flag from the Palace of Government and shredded it in public.
The referendum question was formulated in a vague way: a number of people claimed to have voted in the belief that the "new" symbols were the ones already introduced in 1991
The number of voters who approved the symbols, as only 48.6% of the total electorate approved of the new emblem, since over a third of the eligible voters did not express an opinion. Some claim that this failure to win a majority is a violation of the Constitution, but the imperfection and incompleteness of the Belarusian Law did not resolve the issue (in particular, the Constitution does not define the acceptance threshold).
Finally, the BPF Party and other influential opposition parties state that the referendum, followed by mass closing of Belarusian language schools and minimizing of Belarusian language programmes on national TV and radio, has had a harmful effect on the Belarusian language and culture.

According to Mikhail Pastukhov, a former judge of the Constitutional Court of Belarus, the referendum are "invalid from the legal point of view and should be abolished". He agrees with the point that numerous issues related to national history, traditions, culture and language were put to the referendum in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Belarus. According to Pastukhov, Pahonia and the white-red-white flag remain the state symbols of Belarus de jure.

International
The Russian State Duma issued a statement supporting the official results of the referendum.

The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly stated that the referendum violated international standards and noted concerns over governmental control over the media, interference with the voting process, and obstacles to the opposition's activities. The US Department of State also criticized the Belarusian government over the referendum.

Aftermath
The decrees about the new state flag and new coat of arms were signed by Lukashenko on 7 July 1995.

References

Referendums in Belarus
1995 in Belarus
Belarus
Alexander Lukashenko
Constitutional referendums
National symbols of Belarus
Languages of Belarus
Flag referendums
Russian language in Belarus
Russification
Neo-Sovietism
Language referendums