[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dan Cronin

rotested language in sample letters circulated among Republican precinct workers that endorsed Birkett and criticized Tom. Additionally, Tom faced criticisms for receiving traffic tickets and failing to appear in court to answer them, causing his drivers license to be suspended. Tom lost to Birkett.

Dan's and Tom's sister, Cindy Cronin Cahill, was the first in the family to enter politics. A part-time accountant with her own company, Cahill ran for city treasurer of Elmhurst in 1989. The Cronin family helped with canvassing, including Juliann, who had not yet married Dan. Cahill was the youngest candidate in the race, and defeated her two male opponents by a wide margin. After four years, she stepped down as treasurer in 1993 to care for her children. Cahill later served as a member of the Illinois Liquor Control Commission from 2012 through 2019. She was elected to the county board during the 2022 elections.

Illinois House of Representatives
Cronin considered running for the General Assembly in 1986 and 1988. Daniels, by then the House minority leader, advised him to wait both times. Cronin declined to wait at the 1990 elections, when he ran for the 40th district of the House of Representatives. During the Republican primary, he defeated incumbent Gene L. Hoffman, who had been in the legislature for 24 years and was the longest-serving Republican in the House. Financing for the campaign came primarily from Dan's father, Richard Cronin. The campaign was managed by Tom Cronin, Dan's brother, and also Tom Manion, a political operative from Elmhurst who previously directed field operations for the campaigns of Chicago Mayor Richard M. Daley and US Representative Dan Rostenkowski. Pam McDonough, chief of staff for Daniels, regarded Cronin as a "good campaigner".

Cronin touted an anti-tax platform, which appealed to voters, especially the conservative wing of the Republican Party. He portrayed Hoffman as being aligned with special interests. Cronin also criticized his opponent for supporting a temporary increase to state income taxes to fund education, suggesting that Hoffman was more interested in his dream job of becoming Illinois State Superintendent. Cronin, an anti-abortion candidate, contrasted himself from Hoffman's support for abortion rights. He positioned his campaign as a change from the incumbents, and he pledged to make government more responsive and accessible to the public.

A few weeks before the primary in March, Cronin's campaign claimed that roughly 150 yard signs were removed from properties along major roadways in Elmhurst. Supporters speculated that Hoffman's backers had removed the signs ahead of the arrival of Governor James R. Thompson, who was visiting Elmhurst to endorse Hoffman. Cronin's anti-establishment positions, though they helped him win the primary, did not endear him to the party's leadership. He referred to Daniels, a Hoffman supporter, as "ineffective", and the relationship between Cronin and Daniels became strained. By the general election, Cronin would eventually ease the criticism and work with Daniels again. Tom and Dan Cronin worked afterwards to further improve their relationship with Daniels.

In the general election, Cronin faced Democratic nominee Truman Kirkpatrick, a retired chemist from York Center. Cronin estimated that his campaign debt could reach $60,000–70,000, of which $25,000 was a personal loan, compared to Kirkpatrick's much more modest campaign. He urged an audit of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Community Affairs, and pledged to give the DuPage County auditor the authority to audit school districts and agencies of county government. Cronin supported amending the state constitution to provide for more referendums and to promote tax accountability. Kirkpatrick, an abortion rights advocate, believed 70% of voters in the district to be against Cronin's anti-abortion stance. Further, while Cronin supported requiring a supermajority in the General Assembly to increase taxes, Kirkpatrick countered that the scheme would make it easier for a simple majority of the legislature to spend without being able to back it up with revenue.

Cronin won the election and began his term in the House in January 1991. He credited his victory against Hoffman for attracting statewide attention to rising property taxes. He supported cutbacks to state programs and personnel, and sponsored legislation that capped property taxes in the suburban counties. However, he opposed property tax-capping legislation sponsored by Daniels and Senate Minority Leader James Philip, claiming the bill extended or made permanent a surcharge on the state's income tax.

As of October 1992, Cronin was the youngest member of the General Assembly. He earned a reputation as a conservative Republican. However, he supported paid family leave, opposed by Republican leadership and business constituents.

Illinois Senate