[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zvi Galil

xact or approximate, sequential or parallel, and one- or multi-dimensional string matching.

Galil worked with other computer scientists to develop several currently-fastest graph algorithms. Examples include: maximum weighted matching; trivalent graph isomorphism; and minimum weight spanning trees.

With his students, Galil devised a technique he called "sparsification" and a method he called "sparse dynamic programming". The first was used to speed up dynamic graph algorithms. The second was used to speed up the computations of various edit distances between strings.

In 1979, together with Ofer Gabber, Galil solved the previously open problem of constructing a family of expander graphs with an explicit expansion ratio, useful in the design of fast graph algorithms.

Awards and honors
In 1995, Galil was inducted as a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery for "fundamental contributions to the design and analysis of algorithms and outstanding service to the theoretical computer science community," and in 2004, he was elected to the National Academy of Engineering for "contributions to the design and analysis of algorithms and for leadership in computer science and engineering." In 2005, he was selected as a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 2008, Columbia University established the Zvi Galil award for student life. In 2009, the Columbia Society of Graduates awarded him the Great Teacher Award. In 2012, The University of Waterloo awarded Galil with an honorary Doctor of Mathematics degree for his "fundamental contributions in the areas of graph algorithms and string matching." In 2020, Academic Influence included Galil in the list of the 10 most influential computer scientists of the last decade, and the advisory board of the College of Computing at Georgia Tech raised over $2 million from over 130 donors to establish an endowed chair named after Galil.

References

External links
Home page at Georgia Tech

Columbia University faculty
Cornell University alumni
Fellows of the Association for Computing Machinery
Fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
Israeli computer scientists
Israeli mathematicians
Theoretical computer scientists
1947 births
Living people
Academics from Tel Aviv
Tel Aviv University alumni
Members of the United States National Academy of Engineering
Georgia Tech faculty
IBM Research computer scientists
Presidents of universities in Israel