[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Liam Gillick

tuation of the exhibition - without necessarily producing relational-aesthetic models of community."

Central to Gillick's practice are the publications that function in parallel to his artworks. An anthology of these "Allbooks" was published by Book Works, in 2009.

Documents Series with Henry Bond

Between 1990 and 1994, Gillick collaborated with artist Henry Bond on their Documents Series, a group of 83 fine art works which appropriated the modus operandi of a news gathering team, in order to produce relational art. In order to make the work, the duo posed as a news reporting team—i.e., a photographer and a journalist—often attending events scheduled in the Press Association's Gazette — a list of potentially newsworthy events in London. Bond worked as if a typical photojournalist, joining the other press photographers present; whilst Gillick operated as the journalist, first collecting the ubiquitous press kit before preparing his audio recording device. 

The series was first shown commercially in 1991, at Karsten Schubert Limited and then, in 1992, at Maureen Paley's Interim Art —two of the galleries that were pioneers in the development of the YBA art movement. The series was subsequently exhibited at Tate Modern in the show Century City held in 2001, and at the Hayward Gallery in the exhibition How to Improve the World, in 2006.

Artist books

Exhibitions
Major solo exhibitions include Liam Gillick: Annlee You Proposes at Tate Modern, London, 2001-2002; The Wood Way at Whitechapel Gallery in London 2002; Projects 79: Liam Gillick, Literally at the Museum of Modern Art, New York, 2003; A short text on the possibility of creating an economy of equivalence at Palais de Tokyo, Paris, 2005; and the retrospective project Liam Gillick: Three perspectives and a short scenario 2008-2010, which toured the Kunsthalle Zürich, the Witte de With in Rotterdam, Kunstverein München, and the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. The U.S. presentation of the exhibition was the most comprehensive of Gillick's work in an American museum. Accompanying his solo exhibition at the MCA was the show The one hundred and sixty-third floor: Liam Gillick Curates the Collection, curated by Gillick from the MCA collection. In 2016, Gillick presented a solo exhibition, titled Campaign at Serralves Museum of Contemporary Art, Porto.

Other activities
Gillick serves on the board of Artists Space. Alongside Ingrid Schaffner, Tirdad Zolghadr and others, Gillick is a member of the Graduate Committee of the Center for Curatorial Studies and Art in Contemporary Culture at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, New York. He has been on the faculty of Columbia University School of the Arts in New York City since 1997. Since 2017, he has been a founding member of The American Friends of the ICA, a support group for the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA).

In 2018, Gillick was a member of the jury that selected Kapwani Kiwanga for the Frieze Artist Award.

Art market
Gillick is represented in the UK by Maureen Paley, in the US by Casey Kaplan, and in Ireland by Kerlin Gallery.

Personal life
Gillick is cousin to British artists James and Theodore Gillick. He was married to artist Sarah Morris, in 1998 at a ceremony in Miami. They divorced in 2012. Other relatives include sculptor Ernest Gillick, medallionist Mary Gillick, and anti-abortion activist Victoria Gillick.

References

Further reading

Literature
 Liam Gillick, Proxemics: Selected writing 1988-2006 (JRP Ringier, 2007).
 Lilian Haberer, Liam Gillick: Factories in the Snow (JRP-Ringier, 2007).
 Monika Szewczyk (ed.) Meaning Liam Gillick (MIT Press, 2009).

1964 births
Living people
Alumni of Goldsmiths, University of London
British conceptual artists
English contemporary artists
English installation artists
Columbia University faculty
People from Aylesbury
English art critics
English expatriates in the United States
Bard College faculty
Young British Artists