[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 132]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ferent and independent chiefs. That country, which has in every
age been celebrated for the mildness of the climate and the fertility of
the soil, seems to be destined to groan under all the horrors of eternal
servitude. Whether these effects are merely produced by fortune, or
whether the natural advantages it enjoys have a necessary tendency to
soften the minds of the inhabitants to sloth and effeminacy, it is
certain that the people of Asia have, in general, been the unresisting
prey of every invader. At this time several fierce and barbarous nations
had broken in upon its territory, and, after covering its fertile plains
with carnage and desolation, were contending with each other for the
superiority.

"Under the most enterprising of these rival chiefs was Tigranes now
enrolled; and in the very first engagement at which he was present, he
gave such uncommon proofs of valour, that he was distinguished by the
general with marks of particular regard, and became the admiration of
all his comrades. Under the banners of this adventurous warrior did
Tigranes toil with various fortunes during the space of many years;
sometimes victorious in the fight, sometimes baffled; at one time
crowned with conquest and glory, at another beset with dangers, covered
with wounds, and hunted like a wild beast through rocks and forests; yet
still the native courage of his temper sustained his spirits, and kept
him firm in the profession which he had chosen. At length, in a decisive
battle, in which the chieftain, under whom Tigranes had enlisted,
contended with the most powerful of his rivals, he had the honour of
retrieving the victory when his own party seemed totally routed; and,
after having penetrated the thickest squadrons of the enemy, to kill
their general with his own hand. From this moment he seemed to be in
possession of all that his ambition could desire. He was appointed
general of all the troops under the chief himself, whose repeated
victories had rendered him equal in power to the most celebrated
monarchs. Nor did his fortune stop even here; for, after a number of
successive battles, in which his party were generally victorious by his
experience and intrepidity, he was, on the unexpected death of the
chief, unanimously chosen by the whole nation to succeed him.

"In the mean time Sophron, free from envy, avarice, or ambition, pursued
the natural impulse of his character, and contented himself with a life
of virtuous obscurity; he passed his time in rural labours, in watching
his flocks, and in attending with all the duty of an affectionate child
upon his aged parents. Every morning he rose with the sun, and spreading
his innocent arms to heaven, thanked that Being who created all nature
for the continuance of life and health, and all the blessings he
enjoyed. His piety and virtue were rewarded with everything which a
temperate and rational mind can ask. All his rural labours succeeded in
the most ample manner; his flock was the fairest, the most healthy and
numerous of the district; he was loved and esteemed by the youth of the
neighbourhood, and equally respected by the aged, who pointed him out as
the example of every virtue to their families; but, what was more dear
than all the rest to such a mind as Sophron's, was to see himself the
joy, the comfort, and support of his parents, who frequently embraced
him with tears, and supplicated the Deity to reward such duty and
affection with all His choicest blessings.

"Nor was his humanity confined to his own species; the innocent
inhabitants of the forest were safe from the pursuit of Sophron; and all
that lived under his protection were sure to meet with distinguished
tenderness. 'It is enough,' said Sophron, 'that the innocent sheep
supplies me with his fleece to form my winter garments, and defend me
from the cold; I will not bereave him of his little life, nor stop his
harmless gambols on the green, to gratify a guilty sensuality. It is
surely enough that the stately heifer affords me copious streams of pure
and wholesome food; I will not arm my hand against her innocent
existence; I will not pollute myself with her blood, nor tear her warm
and panting flesh with a cruelty that we abhor even in savage beasts.
More wholesome, more adapted to human life, are the spontaneous fruits
which liberal nature produces for the sustenance of man, or which the
earth affords to recompense his labours.'"

Here the interest and concern which had been long visible in Tommy's
face, could no longer be repressed, and tears began to trickle down his
cheeks. "What is the matter, my darling?" said his mother: "what is
there in the account of this young man so deeply interests and affects
you?" "Alas! mamma," said Tommy, "it reminds of poor Harry Sandford;
just such another good young man will he be when he is as old as
Sophron; and I--and I," added he, sobbing, "am just such another
worthless, ungrateful wretc