[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Affairs (journal)

rt Meri’s ‘Estonia’s role in the new Europe’. In 1995, the 75th anniversary of Chatham House was commemorated with a special issue featuring reflections by Sir Michael Howard, Fred Halliday, Paul Krugman, Malcolm Bradbury and others. The 75th anniversary of the journal itself was celebrated in 1999.

The political implications of the 9/11 terror attacks on the United States resulted in a response from the journal, with a special issue April 2002 titled ‘New orders, new norms,’ which included an article by Joseph Nye. Through commissioning targeted special issues, International Affairs has covered a range of disciplines; including topics such as bio-diversity and environmental peacebuilding, global health crises such as HIV/AIDS and Ebola, and UK-EU relations.

The 85th volume of International Affairs was published in 2009. That year the first issue featured an article by longstanding editor Caroline Soper on the journal's history as well as one by former US National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski, which looked ahead to the major challenges for the newly inaugurated President Obama. 2014 saw the commemoration of the journal's 90th issue and also the 100th anniversary of the start of the First World War. Special issues marking both were published in January and March respectively.

2015 saw the transition to the current editorial team. Since this time the geographical coverage of the journal and its contributors has also broadened, with special issues published on China, India and Japan, featuring authors from those countries alongside western contributors. The journal has since developed social media and blog presences, and adopted an Open Access policy, following the 'Gold' model.

In 2020 half of all contributors to the journal, apart from book reviewers, identified as women.

List of editors
Since 1922, 97 volumes of International Affairs have been published by 14 editors, totalling 451 issues. Below is a summary of the tenures of the respective editors.

Book reviews
International Affairs has a comprehensive book reviews section. Each issue includes 30 or more reviews in a range of disciplines including the following:
 International Relations theory
 International history
 Governance, law and ethics
 Conflict, security and defence
 Political economy, economics and development
 Energy, environment and global health
 Europe
 Russia and Eurasia
 Middle East and North Africa
 Sub-Saharan Africa
 South Asia
 East Asia and Pacific
 North America
 Latin America and Caribbean

Virtual issues
In recent years the International Affairs editors have curated a series of online-only ‘Virtual Issues’, in which a collection of articles from the archive demonstrate the journal's engagement with specific critical themes. All Virtual Issues are provided free to access by Oxford University Press, and are accompanied by introductions from noted specialists in the given disciplines. Current Virtual Issues include: 
 India’s odyssey through international affairs
 UK defence policy
 The Falklands
 World development and world government in ‘International Affairs’
 The Middle East in ‘International Affairs’
 70 years of the United Nations in ‘International Affairs’

Early Career Prize
In 2017 International Affairs launched their Early Career Prize, aimed at celebrating the work of journal contributors with less than seven years of academic experience. The Prize is awarded each year to an author (or authors if multi-authored article) whose International Affairs article is deemed by a committee comprising members of the journal's editorial board to fulfil the following criteria:
 An outstanding article that shows innovative thinking on an issue in international affairs/studies
 Offers a valuable contribution to the field/literature
 Demonstrates excellent research methods, analytical abilities and a clear presentation of argument
 Is well written in an accessible style
 Overall stands out as the best article by an early career author in the given calendar year, observing International Affairs remit to be an academically rigorous and policy-relevant journal.

The prize is awarded at the annual International Studies Association Convention. The previous winners are as follows:

International Affairs Blog
In 2016 International Affairs launched a blog on the social publishing platform Medium. It was designed to bring insights from the journal to a wider audience, and raise the profile of the contributing academics. Since 2017 the blog has also featured a series of professional development posts, providing advice on publishing in academic journals.

Abstracting and indexing 
The journal is abstracted and indexed in:

References

External links 
 International Affairs - via Oxford University Press
 International Affairs - via Chatham House
 International Affairs - blog