[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Leipzig-class cruiser

the ship at sharper angles. The ships tended toward lee helm in general conditions, but in heavy wind, they suffered from weather helm. Both vessels also suffered from severe leeway at low speeds, and the effect was especially pronounced for , owing to her larger superstructure.

Armament and armor

 and  were armed with a main battery of nine  SK C/25 guns mounted in three triple gun turrets. One was located forward, and two were placed in a superfiring pair aft, all on the centerline. They were supplied with between 1,080 and 1,500 rounds of ammunition, for between 120 and 166 shells per gun. As built,  was also equipped with two  SK L/45 anti-aircraft guns in single mounts; they had 800 rounds of ammunition.  meanwhile was built with eight of these weapons with 3,200 rounds in total.  also carried eight  SK C/30 anti-aircraft guns, and several  anti-aircraft guns, though the number of the latter changed over her career. The two ships also carried four triple torpedo tube mounts located amidships;  had  weapons while  was equipped with  torpedoes. They were supplied with twenty-four torpedoes. They were also capable of carrying 120 naval mines.

 used Krupp cemented armor, while  received the newly developed  ("Wotan", Hard) steel. The ships were protected by an armor deck that was  thick amidships and an armor belt that was  thick. The belt was inclined to a greater degree than in the preceding s, to increase the effectiveness of the same thickness of armor plate. The sloping armor that connected the deck with the belt was  thick. The conning tower had  thick sides with a 50 mm thick roof. The gun turrets had  thick faces,  thick sides, and  thick roofs. They were mounted on barbettes that were protected with  of steel plating.

Modifications

After the outbreak of war, both ships were fitted with a degaussing coil to protect them against magnetic mines.  had her aircraft equipment removed in 1941, along with her after torpedo tubes. In 1942, s aircraft handling equipment and aft torpedo tubes were also removed. Throughout the war, the ships' radar suites were upgraded; in March 1941,  was equipped with FuMO 21 radar and in early 1942, a FuMO 25 radar set was installed. The latter was a search radar for surface targets and low-flying aircraft at low range. The FuMO 21 set was replaced by the short-range FuMO 63  50-centimeter radar.  was also fitted with four Metox radar warning receivers.  did not receive her FuMO 24/25 radar set until 1943; this was to be the last modification for .

 had her anti-aircraft armament modernized to bring her closer to the standard of weaponry fitted to her sister. After 1934, two additional 8.8 cm guns were added, with another pair later. Starting in 1941, eight 3.7 cm guns were installed, along with fourteen 2 cm guns. After 1944, she only carried eight of the 2 cm guns. s anti-aircraft battery was improved over the course of World War II. In late 1942, a pair of Army-variant 2 cm  quadruple mounts were installed, one on the navigating bridge and the other on top of the aft superfiring turret. In May 1944, the navy proposed installing several Bofors  guns, but most of these weapons were diverted to other uses, and only two guns were installed. One was mounted on the bridge and the other where the catapult had been located. Two Navy-pattern s were added; one replaced the Army model atop the aft superfiring turret, and the other was placed in front of the anti-aircraft fire director. The Army-pattern s were moved to the main deck. In December 1944, another revised anti-aircraft plan was proposed, this time incorporating the new 3.7 cm FlaK 43 gun, of which there were to be eight, along with two s and ten 2 cm twin mounts. Germany's wartime situation by the end of 1944 prevented these changes from being made, however.

Construction

Service history

Leipzig

In the 1930s,  was used as a training cruiser, as well as to make goodwill visits to foreign ports. She participated in non-intervention patrols during the Spanish Civil War. In late 1939, after the start of World War II, she performed escort duties for warships in the Baltic and North seas.  was torpedoed by the British submarine  on 13 December while on one of these operations. The cruiser was badly damaged, and the necessary repairs took almost a year to complete. She thereafter resumed her duties as a training ship. She provided gunfire support to the advancing  troops as they invaded the Soviet Union in 1941.