[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Martin Dobson

Martin Dobson (born 14 February 1948; Rishton), popularly known as Dobbo, is a former professional footballer and England international who played as a midfielder. He was the first player to be transferred for £300,000, when Everton bought him from Burnley in August 1974.

Playing career 
He was born in Rishton and attended Clitheroe Royal Grammar School. He was signed as youngster by Bolton Wanderers who spotted him playing for Lancashire Grammar Schools. However he was given a free transfer and moved on to Burnley. He had a long and successful playing career, playing for almost 20 years and totalling over 600 league appearances while playing for Burnley, Everton and Bury.

He won five England caps overall, four while at Burnley and one while at Everton. His first England cap was awarded to him by manager Sir Alf Ramsey (because of FA Cup commitments of other players) on 3 April 1974, a 0–0 draw against Portugal. However, he impressed enough to win four more caps that year.

Managerial career 
As well as finishing his playing career with Bury, Dobson became their manager until 1989. During this period they were promoted from the old Fourth Division and became an established Third Division side.

Dobson was appointed manager of Bristol Rovers in July 1991, but was sacked after only 12 games in charge in October of the same year. On 10 January 2010 he was appointed joint caretaker manager of Premier League side and former club Burnley, with Terry Pashley, after Owen Coyle left the club for Bolton Wanderers. However, Dobson and Pashley never managed a game due to the rapid appointment of Brian Laws. Laws kept Dobson on his coaching staff in the short-term as he built up his backroom staff. Dobson then returned full-time to his role as Burnley's director of youth development.

Dobson left his post as director of youth at Burnley in October 2011 after his contract was not renewed by manager Eddie Howe who instead appointed his reserve team manager Jason Blake, from former club AFC Bournemouth, as academy manager. Dobson became the professional development co-ordinator at Everton in February 2018.

Managerial statistics

External links
Profile at EnglandFC.com

References

1948 births
Living people
English men's footballers
England men's international footballers
England men's under-23 international footballers
Bolton Wanderers F.C. players
Bolton Wanderers F.C. non-playing staff
Everton F.C. players
Burnley F.C. players
Bury F.C. players
Bristol Rovers F.C. managers
Northwich Victoria F.C. managers
People from Rishton
Men's association football midfielders
English Football League players
English Football League representative players
English football managers
Bury F.C. managers
Burnley F.C. non-playing staff
Everton F.C. non-playing staff