[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alex Rider (character)

x felt. However, Jack is revealed to be alive in the following novel Never Say Die, as her death was faked by other members of Scorpia as part of their plans to set up a complex hostage situation involving taking a school bus of wealthy children prisoner, with Alex eventually managing to rescue her.

Sabina Pleasure
Throughout the novels, Sabina Pleasure becomes one of Alex's closest friends. The two first met while working as ball boys/girls at the Wimbledon Tennis Championships and they quickly became good friends. Sabina soon became suspicious when Alex had to leave the Championships early, and more so when Sabina saved Alex's life, and Alex then disappears on a mission for several weeks. Alex's constant disappearances place a real difficulty on their relationship, and when Sabina finally finds out the truth about Alex, things turn out differently for them. Alex's relationship with Sabina takes a turn during their first holiday in Cornwall, when the two share a slight kiss one night. The next day they went out for a surfing trip, when Alex is knocked out by a massive wave and Sabina gives him CPR. Sabina soon leaves Britain to live in America. Although Alex suspects he will never see her again, she later sends him a card when Alex is in the hospital after being shot by a sniper. She shows up at the end of Snakehead to have dinner with him. She then invites him to celebrate New Year with her family in Scotland, where the plot of Crocodile Tears begins and also shares another kiss with him, hinting that her feelings for him may still exist. In Scorpia Rising, Alex and Sabina are revealed to be in a relationship, and struggling with the long distance between them.  At the end of the book, after the apparent death of Jack while on a mission in Egypt, Sabina's family become his new legal guardians. By the start of Never Say Die, Alex and Sabina remain friends, but have fallen out of love with each other, as Sabina is now in a relationship with a basketball player at her new school.

Mrs. Lale "Tulip" Jones 
When Alex first meets Alan Blunt, Mrs. Jones is introduced as his deputy when she briefed him for his first mission. Mrs. Jones is very sympathetic to Alex, and offers reassurance when Alex is uneasy about what is required to do for his missions. She shows great concern for Alex's situation – often protesting that he is not to be used again, but all the while admitting that he is useful to MI6. She shows signs of great attachment to Alex, of an almost motherly kind. Mrs Jones has also hinted that she has had children (at least two) and that they were taken from her, which could contribute to why she has so much sympathy for Alex. In Scorpia, Alex breaks into her apartment with the intent of assassinating her, after Scorpia manipulate him into believing that she ordered the assassination of his father, but changes his mind at the last moment even without learning that she actually helped his father fake his death. She eventually takes over Blunt's job at the end of Scorpia Rising, swearing that Alex will never return to MI6 again.

In Never Say Die, Mrs. Jones meets Alex in France, where he has been flown by her Egyptian counterpart Colonel Manzoor, on the hunch that Jack is (correctly) still alive. She believes that Alex is becoming addicted to danger, and tells him to stop. At the end of the novel, she tells Alex that if he wishes to be involved in missions, he can join; if he refuses of his own accord, she assures him that his wishes will be respected.

In the most recent book, Nightshade, it is revealed that the two children Alex saw in the photograph in Mrs. Jones' apartment when he was sent to kill her in Scorpia are in fact her son and daughter, William and Sophia. She reveals that their father (and her husband, from whom she is estranged but not legally separated) was "Hans Meyer", a Russian deep cover agent disguised as a German writer; when Blunt told her of "Hans'" true allegiance, she telephoned him and told him that she knew. He fled the country, abducting William and Sophia (who were six and four, respectively) in the process. She believed that she had lost her children forever, until the assassination of MI6 agent "Pablo" in Rio showed that Sophia was involved in the man's death; although she escaped, she was photographed. Alex goes undercover at the criminal group "Nightshade" in Crete, and discovers that William and Sophia, along with twenty-one other children, are the organisation's assassins. By the novel's end, Alex manages to reunite Sophia with her mother, for deprogramming. Mrs. Jones hints that she may end up recruiting Alex to MI6 properly in the future.