[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Russian battleship Imperatritsa Ekaterina Velikaya

Imperatritsa Ekaterina Velikaya ( (Empress Catherine the Great)) was the second of three  dreadnoughts built for the Imperial Russian Navy during World War I. Completed in 1915, she was assigned to the Black Sea Fleet. She engaged the ex-German battlecruiser Yavûz Sultân Selîm once, but only inflicted splinter damage while taking no damage herself. The ship briefly encountered an Ottoman light cruiser, but mostly covered the actions of smaller ships during the war without firing her guns. These included minelaying operations off the Bosporus and anti-shipping sweeps of the coast of Anatolia. Imperatritsa Ekaterina Velikaya was renamed Svobodnaya Rossiya (, Free Russia) after the February Revolution of 1917.

She was evacuated from Sevastopol as German troops approached the city in May 1918, but was scuttled in Novorossiysk harbor the following month when the Germans demanded that the Soviets hand her over according to the terms of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. Svobodnaya Rossiya was only partially salvaged after the war.

Description
Awarded the contract for one of the three Black Sea battleships authorized in 1911, the Associated Factories and Shipyards of Nikolayev (ONZiV) lacked an experienced design staff of its own, the company hired the British shipbuilder Vickers Limited to assist with the process of producing detailed drawings from the preliminary sketch design. Based on the historic tendency for Russian ships to be overweight, the Vickers consultants suggested that the ship's hull be enlarged to create a greater reserve of buoyancy and the Naval Ministry agreed despite the additional costs involved. Imperatritsa Ekaterina Velikaya was  long at the waterline and had a beam of ;  longer and  wider than her half-sisters. Her exact draft is not known, but she had a draft of  during her sea trials. The ship displaced  at normal load, over  more than her designed displacement of . The lead ship of the class, , had proven to be very bow-heavy in service and tended to take large amounts of water through her forward casemates. The ammunition for Imperatritsa Ekaterina Velikayas forward  guns was reduced from 100 to 70 rounds each while the ammunition for the forward  guns was reduced from 245 to 100 rounds per gun in a successful attempt to compensate for her trim. This was successful because Imperatritsa Ekaterina Velikayas longer length meant that she was less affected by the trim problem to begin with.

Imperatritsa Ekaterina Velikaya was fitted with four license-built Parsons steam turbine sets, each driving one shaft using steam provided by 20 triangular Yarrow boilers that burned either coal or fuel oil at a working pressure of . Designed to produce  which was intended to give the ship a speed was , the turbines produced  on trials, although no figures for her speed have been found. The ship carried enough coal and fuel oil to give her a range of  at full speed and  at a more economical speed. All of her electrical power was generated by four primary Curtis  turbo generators and two  auxiliary units.

Armament and protection
Her main battery consisted of a dozen Obukhovskii 12-inch Pattern 1907 guns mounted in four triple turrets distributed over the length of the ship. Her secondary armament consisted of 10 130 mm B7 Pattern 1913 guns mounted in hull-mounted casemates. They were arranged in two groups, six guns per side from the forward turret to the rear funnel and the remaining four clustered around the rear turret. Imperatritsa Ekaterina Velikaya was also fitted with three  anti-aircraft guns, one mounted on the roof of the fore turret and two side by side on the aft turret. The ship was fitted with four  submerged torpedo tubes, two tubes on each broadside.

The waterline armor belt of the Imperatritsa Mariya class was  thick with the thickest portion covering the length of the ships between the  barbettes. The armor of their gun turrets was also 9.8 inches thick and their decks ranged from  in thickness. The armor plates protecting the conning tower were  thick

Service
Imperatritsa Ekaterina Velikaya was built by the ONZiV Shipyard at Nikolayev. She was laid down on 30 October 1911 as Ekaterina II, but this was just a ceremonial event as neither the design had been finalized nor the contract signed. ONZiV decided, on advice from Vickers, to increase her dimensions over those of her sisters to prevent her from being overweight. This added over two million gold rubles to her cost and delayed the start of her construction three months past her half-sisters. She was launched on 6 June 1914, renamed on 27 June 1915, and completed on 18 October. She ran her trials over the remainder of the year.