[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Police Coast Guard

s headquarters to its current location at Brani Regional Base, due to the planned damming of the Marina Bay and Kallang Basin. The new Police Coast Guard headquarters at Pulau Brani was officially opened on 8 February 2007 by the Minister for Home Affairs, DPM Wong Kan Seng.

Incidents and accidents

 On 6 December 1984, police boat PX-5 left its base in Jurong for routine patrol. En route, SC Abdul Rashid Bin Mohammed Said shot SGT Chin Ah Kow in the head and threw his body overboard. PC Wahid Bin Ahmad and PC Shamsudin Bin Haji Ali were forced off the boat, and subsequently found near Pulau Senang, by which time PC Wahid had drowned and PC Shamsudin was the sole survivor. SGT Chin's body was never found.
On 28 December 1999, petrol bombs hurled from an escaping speedboat hit a police boat off Sembawang, although no one was hurt. The speedboat was attempting to smuggle in illegal migrants, and was later captured by the police.
On 3 January 2003, six officers led by DSP1 Tan Wee Wah Stephen aboard PH50 (Hammerhead Shark) assisted in the rescue of crew on the stricken Republic of Singapore Navy ship RSS Courageous after a collision with a merchant ship, ANL Indonesia. All officers involved in the rescue were subsequently awarded with the Pingat Keberanian Polis.
On 11 September 2004, a collision between a PCG boat and a cabin cruiser out on a fishing trip resulted in the death of a 47-year-old Prisons officer. His partner and colleague was rescued.
In March 2006, a PCG craft PT34 rammed an outrigger canoe with six crew members from the Singapore Paddle Club, resulting in injuries to three canoe crew members.
On 13 April 2007, two Interceptor Craft of the Special Task Squadron were on ambush duty off Tuas in the vicinity of Tuas Jetty, when a speedboat with six illegal immigrants and cartons of cigarettes intruded into Singapore's territorial waters at about 9:30pm. The speedboat sped off when approached by the police, resulting in a five-minute chase which ended with a collision between one of the craft and the speedboat near Pulau Merambong. PK 50 capsized, while the speedboat was completely wrecked. Two officers were rescued from the scene within minutes with minor injuries, while SI Mohd Khalid Bin Muhamad, 41, and SSGT Heah Khim Han, 29, who were trapped in the steering compartment, were missing. Their bodies were found on 14 April 2007 at about 8:15am. Three passengers on the intruding vessels were also rescued, and a fourth man was found dead. The rest of the passengers were still missing. The two officers were the first casualties for the STS and the PCG since the latter's evolution from the Marine Division in 1993. It was also the first instance where a police boat capsized and the first police fatalities as a result of a high speed chase. Both officers were posthumously promoted to the rank of Senior Station Inspector and Senior Staff Sergeant respectively.

Organisation

The Police Coast Guard is currently headed by Senior Assistant Commissioner (SAC) Cheang Keng Keong, with Deputy Assistant Commissioner (DAC) Tay Wee Li as deputy commander (DY Commander). It operates from four regional bases all located on the coastlines of the main island, namely the Brani Regional Base to the south, the Gul Regional Base to the west, the Lim Chu Kang Regional Base to the north and the Loyang Regional Base to the east. It also maintains a small base (police post) on Pulau Ubin. Each of these regional bases are similarly organised to the Neighbourhood Police Centres of the SPF's Land Divisions and conduct patrols and checks within their respective maritime sectors of Singapore's territorial waters.

The entire PCG fleet is organised into three main squadrons. The Interceptor Squadron, located at both the Lim Chu Kang and Loyang regional bases, is outfitted with PC-class high-speed patrol-craft able to control, track and prevent the movement of illegal immigrants and intruding vessels all along the Straits of Johor. The Port Squadron, located at both the Gul and Brani regional bases, is equipped with the newer generation of PT-class patrol-boats (previously together with the now-obsolete PX-class patrol-vessels) and have the primary task of ensuring the security and safety of the waters of Singapore's port by responding to criminal and/or safety incidents as well as projecting a major police presence in STW. The third squadron, the Coastal Patrol Squadron (CPS), operates the largest PCG vessels, the PH-class Coastal Patrol Craft (CPC), to secure the far-sea passages of the eastern approaches into STW (from the southwestern edge of the South China Sea) and ensure safe passage for all legitimate users. They are also tasked with protecting the Horsburgh Lighthouse on Pedra Branca in the vicinity, together with the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN).