[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sorcerian

is a 1987 action role-playing game developed by Nihon Falcom as the fifth installment in the Dragon Slayer line of games. Originally released for the PC-8801 Personal Computer, it has since been released on a wide variety of platforms.

Gameplay
Sorcerian is a side-scrolling action-RPG. The player can create up to ten characters, from whom up to four members can be present in a party at the same time. Each character is highly customizable, with four different classes/races (fighter, wizard, elf, and dwarf) and over 60 possible jobs/occupations (ranging from clown to exorcist) available for them to perform; each has its own strengths and weaknesses, affecting the seven primary attributes (strength, intelligence, protection, magic resistance, vitality, dexterity, and karma) in different ways, as well as different equipment limitations.

The player can choose from fifteen different scenarios, or quests, to play through in the order of their choice. The party must battle enemies and perform tasks within the given levels to clear each scenario, before moving onto another scenario of their choice. The player controls the entire party at the same time, with all four members running in a line, jumping in sequence, and attacking in unison. The party members follow behind in a manner similar to the Options in the arcade shooter Gradius (1985). Sorcerian also employs class-based puzzles, such as using a high-strength character to force open doors.

All the characters have a default starting age of 16. Each time a player begins a new scenario, a year passes by, while additional time passes by in towns as a character goes through training or enchants items. The characters age at different rates depending on their race, with humans reaching old age at 60, dwarves at 100, and elves at 200. Upon reaching old age, for every year that passes, a character can die permanently at a random time. There is also an "Advance Time" to speed up the flow of time. Another new feature of Sorcerian was its episodic format that extended across various expansion packs. Besides the default fifteen scenarios that come with the game, there were a number of additional scenario packs released. The aging system was created with the additional scenario packs in mind.

Release 
It was originally released for the NEC PC-8801 in 1987, and was later ported to other personal computer platforms such as the NEC PC-9801, the NEC PC-88VA, the Sharp X1 Turbo, and the MSX2, for which it was released under the title Dragon Slayer V: Sorcerian. An English version for MS-DOS was published by Sierra Entertainment in 1990, ports for the Atari ST, Amiga, Apple IIGS and Macintosh platforms were announced, but not released.

In 1997, Falcom released Sorcerian Forever for Microsoft Windows-based PCs. In 2000, Falcom released Sorcerian Original, a remake of Sorcerian for Microsoft Windows-based PCs. In addition, console versions of Sorcerian with somewhat differing content from their PC counterparts were developed: A version for the Mega Drive was developed by Sega, a version for the PC Engine CD was developed by Victor Musical Industries, and a version for the Dreamcast titled Sorcerian: Shichisei Mahou no Shito was developed by Exe-Create and Media JuGGLer. The Mega Drive version was re-released on the Wii's Virtual Console on September 16, 2008. An iOS version was released on January 20, 2012, by Aeria Inc. Base game includes 5 free scenarios, maximum party size of 5 characters. Pay versions include 10 extra scenarios, maximum party size of 10 characters.

As part of Sorcerian's 25th anniversary, between December 6 and 20 of 2012, Sorcerian for iOS was released for free, and 3 in-game items (10000 Gold, revival LV3 x2, magic item x3) were free, registering as AeriaGames member gets revival LV3 x3 in-game items. In 2014 the PC-88 version was released along with Romancia for the retro game distribution service EGG.

The mobile (iAppli) version, called Advanced Sorcerian, was re-released on Nintendo Switch through the G-Mode Archives label in February 2021.

Add-ons
A number of add-on expansion packs containing new scenarios were developed for the PC-8801 version of Sorcerian, by both Falcom themselves and by other companies:

Developed by Falcom: Sorcerian Utility Vol. 1, Sorcerian Additional Scenario Vol. 1, Sorcerian Additional Scenario Vol. 2 – Sengoku Sorcerian, Sorcerian Additional Scenario Vol. 3 – Pyramid Sorcerian
Developed by Amorphous: Sorcerian New Scenario Vol. 1 – The Visitor from Outer Space, Selected Sorcerian 1, Selected Sorcerian 2, Selected Sorcerian 3, Selected Sorcerian 4, Selected Sorcerian 5
Developed by Quasar Soft: Gilgamesh Sorcerian