[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C.

ing another floor to the club in the future, to continue activities such as a football academy construction project.

Fans
Hapoel Be'er Sheva fans spread throughout the country and are one of the largest audiences in Israel.

The 2012–13 season fans won the title of Be'er Sheva year's fair audience.

Ultras Organization – UltraSouth
UltraSouth was founded in 2014 out of a union between 2 groups – The Camels 2005 &  and The
South Side. Its activity was centered in Gate 5 at Vasermil Stadium. At Turner Stadium it runs behind the gate in the south gallery. The organization focuses on encouraging the group and preparing a stage for the games. In addition, the organization helps organize the fans of the group in ways of reaching out. Since the group moved to Turner Stadium, the organization has begun to present advanced sets of encouragement. In the 2016–17 season, the fans organization launched a fundraising campaign to purchase crankshafts for the southern pavilion to assist in the layout of the sets. The sum they sought to reach was 100,000 Shekels and the end of the campaign was about a month, but after 24 hours the money was raised in full. The organization advocated political isolation and the ultras of "ULTRAS NO POLITICA". The approach of the UltraSouth organization to avoid political affiliation turned out to be successful. After the display of Palestinian flags in Celtic Park, the organization emphasized that anyone who wanted to bring the Israeli flag to the tour was welcome, but it would not be related to the group.

The organization takes care to make flags and signs in high-level deployment to increase the standard of decor in the stands. There is a songwriter for the group and for the players. In addition, the organization is in regular contact with the fans through Facebook, a dedicated Telegram channel, and other social media.

Crest
With the establishment of the club, it was decided by the management team that a crest, labeled below with Hapoel Be'er Sheva, would be placed on jerseys. This symbol has served the club until 1993.

In 1993 the club management decided to change the group crest, and because over the years the club had earned the nickname "Camel", the club tried to create a symbol for it. Between 1993 and 1995 the crest had a modified camel hump below, a soccer ball in the center circle, and the team name written in Hebrew and English at the edges.

From 1995 to 2016, Hapoel Be'er Sheva flaunted symbol whose lower half was a soccer ball, and the top half contained a chimney that symbolizes the municipal building, a symbol of the original executive, and the slogan "the pride of the Negev" to describe the team from the capital of the Negev.

On 21 June 2016 the club's management presented the official emblem at the 2016–17 season press conference. The current symbol is based on the symbol that served the club from the 1995–96 season to the 2015–16 season: the lower half circle shape is half a soccer ball, the top half contains a chimney symbolizing the municipal building, a symbol of the original executive, and the top edges of the circle display the club's Hebrew and English name. In addition, the crest is displayed below a star; this star represents that the club has won five championships.

Kit manufacturers and sponsors

Kit manufacturers
The shirt and shorts of Hapoel Be'er Sheva have been red and white since its inception; the group's third costume is blue.

At some point in time, the team has added a rather black color. During the 1990s, the team also played in costumes that are not related to their traditional colors, such as a purple outfit, which represents the forum club that was then the main sponsor. The club's famous uniforms are red and white striped shirts, the first and second championship seasons.

The uniform of the team beginning with the 2019–20 season are made by the Kelme company. Over the years, Hapoel Be'er Sheva has used uniforms from Kappa, Adidas, Nike, Diadora, Lotto, Puma and Umbro.

Here are the manufacturers of team uniforms starting in 1975:

Sponsors
Since its inception Hapoel Be'er Sheva has worked with a number of sponsors recognized locally as Solel Boneh in the 1980s, and the South Korean car company Kia and Forum Club at the beginning and middle of the decade.

As of 2020, the main sponsor is Mahsanei HaShuk. Secondary Hapoel Be'er Sheva sponsors include the company Metropoline, Fattal Hotels, Kelme and Eurotec group.

Here are the main sponsors of the team from 2012:

Honours, records and achievements

Honours