[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Censorship in Iraq

ion 2.  Article 40 - The freedom of communication, and mail, telegraphic, electronic, and telephonic correspondence, and other correspondence shall be guaranteed and may not be monitored, wiretapped or disclosed except for legal and security necessity and by a judicial decision.

Internet censorship

Only 17.6% of Iraq's population had access to the Internet at the end of 2013.

The ONI found no evidence of filtering from Iraq in August 2009 in all 4 areas for those which the government tests political filtering, social filtering, conflict/security, and monitoring of Internet tools.

Iraq's constitution provides for the rights of freedom of speech and press, and the government respects these rights in practice. There are no overt government restrictions that the government monitor Internet chat rooms or e-mail.

Those freedoms are provided so long that it doesn't violate public order and morality or express support for the banned Baath Party or for altering the country's borders by violent means.

Censorship in Iraq: 1979 - 2003 

Saddam Hussein ruled Iraq as a single-party dictatorship from 1979 - 2003, with the Ba'athist Party being the only lawful party in Iraq.  During this era, political criticism or dissent of the Iraqi government was illegal.  Similar restrictions against political expression were found in the Iraqi Constitution.

While elections were sometimes held in Iraq during this time period, they were essentially "mock" elections with Saddam Hussein as the sole candidate.  No legitimate free and fair elections were held in Iraq.

The Iraqi National government was (in accordance with Article 37 of the Constitution of 1990) limited to the membership of the Revolutionary Command Council.     Among other powers, this council had (Article 36) the right to prohibit anything that they felt harmed "national unity", the "objectives of the People" or their "achievements".

Censorship in Iraq during the 1950s - 1979 

In the late 1950s - late 1970s, several different political factions fought for control of the Iraqi government.  Initially, a series of military leaders ruled Iraq from 1958 - 1968.  After, which the Iraqi Baathist Party seized control and was led by a series of party leaders until Saddam Hussein came to power in 1979.  None of these different governments showed much support for the freedom of speech, press, personal expression and other forms of communications because of Saddam’s strict rule.

Censorship in the Kingdom of Iraq 

The Constitution governing the Kingdom of Iraq (1932 - 1958) pledged to respect several civil liberties, specifically;

Article 12 -  "Freedom of expression of opinion, liberty of publication, of meeting together, and of forming and joining associations" ... in accordance with whatever laws were enacted by the national government.

Article 13 - "Islam is the official religion of the State. Freedom to practise the rites; of the different sects of that religion, as observed in Iraq, is guaranteed. Complete freedom of conscience and freedom to practise the various forms of worship, in conformity with accepted customs, is guaranteed to all inhabitants of the country provided that such forms of worship do not conflict with the maintenance of order and discipline or public morality."

Article 15 - "Art. 15. All postal and telegraphic correspondence and all telephonic communications shall be secret and free from censorship or detention, except in such circumstances and in such manner as may be prescribed by law."

See also
Human rights in post-invasion Iraq
Human rights in Saddam Hussein's Iraq
Human rights in pre-Saddam Iraq
Internet censorship and surveillance in Iraq

References

External links
Constitution of the Republic of Iraq, Official Gazette of Iraq, No. 4012, of December 28, 2005 (Arabic text)
UN WIPO: Iraqi Constitution (2005) in English translation
Iraq: A Tale of Censorship, a 2007 film about a U.S. soldiers accouint of widespread censorship of the media in Iraq

Iraq
Politics of Iraq
Human rights abuses in Iraq