[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Commission on Occupational Health

e risks of “new work life”. The Scientific Committees focus specifically on the areas of competence and promote and carry out research in their respective fields. Most of these committees have regular symposia, scientific monographs and review the abstracts submitted to the International Congresses.

Accident Prevention
Aging and Work
Allergy and Immunotoxicology
Biohazards and Occupational Health
Cardiology in OH
Education and Training in OH
Emergency Preparedness and Response in OH
Epidemiology in OH
Effectiveness in OH Services
History of Prevention of Occupational and Environmental Diseases
Indoor Air Quality and Health
Industrial Hygiene
Mining Occupational Safety and Health
Musculoskeletal Disorders
Nanomaterial Workers Health
Neurotoxicology and Psychophysiology
Occupational and Environmental Dermatoses
Occupational Health Nursing
Occupational Medicine
Occupational Toxicology
OH and Development
OH for Health Workers
OH in the Chemical Industry 
OH in the Construction Industry
Radiation and Work
Reproductive Hazards in the Workplace
Respiratory Disorders
Rural Health: Agriculture, Pesticides and Organic Dusts
Shiftwork and Working Time
Small-Scale Enterprises and the Informal Sector
Thermal Factors
Toxicology of Metals
Unemployment, Job Insecurity and Health
Vibration and Noise
Women Health and Work
Work and Vision
Work Disability Prevention and Integration
Work Organization and Psychosocial Factors

ICOH Concrete Actions for the Asbestos Ban 

ICOH relations with International Organizations (WHO, ILO) have received critiques, notably on the issue of asbestos: "Part of the explanation for this bland acceptance of the asbestos cancer epidemic is that the WHO and the ILO have allowed organizations such as the International Commission on occupational Health (ICOH) and other asbestos industry consultants and experts to manipulate them and to distort the scientific evidence. The WHO and the ILO were lulled into inaction by conflicting scientific reports of the epidemic."

Actually, ICOH has set among its main priorities the Asbestos Ban, taking a very clear position in favour of the global ban of asbestos. Through its official bodies and individual members ICOH took actions at all levels of activity, global, national and workplace levels:

After the  "Call for an International ban for asbestos" produced by the Collegium Ramazzini, the ICOH Officers Meeting in  Paris, 30–31 August 1999, chaired by the ICOH President at that time, Professor Jean-Francois Caillard, decided to endorse it. Furthermore, the endorsement of the "Call for an International ban for asbestos" was approved by the ICOH 2nd General Assembly on 1 September 2000, in connection with the ICOH 2000 Congress.
The need for a continuous follow-up was recognised during ICOH 2000-2002 triennium and the ICOH President, Prof. Bengt Knave, decided to establish a Task Group on Asbestos (including members of the Board), that presented in the ICOH Board Meeting of 1–2 March  2002, an article by Benedetto Terracini "World Asbestos Congress: Past, Present and Future, Osasco (Brazil) 17–20 September 2000", as a report. The article was endorsed by the Board.
The European Conference on Asbestos 2003 on 3–6 September 2003, drafted and adopted the “Dresden Declaration on Protection of Workers against Asbestos”. The Declaration was drafted with strong input by ICOH President and the Secretary of the Scientific Committee on Industrial Hygiene and it summarizes the contemporary effort of ICOH which has the scientific role to “provide guidance and support for a well-governed process to eliminate the use of asbestos”. For this aim, ICOH Past President, Prof. Jorma Rantanen, during the 13th Session of the Joint ILO/WHO Committee on Occupational Health made the proposal for elimination of asbestos related diseases as a priority for ILO/WHO collaboration. The Committee unanimously approved the proposal.
ICOH commitment in this field was also attested by the full support to the Asian Asbestos Conference 2006 organized in Thailand on 26–27 July 2006 by the Ministry of Public Health and co-sponsored by the International Labour Office (ILO), the World Health Organization (WHO), International Ban Asbestos Secretariat (IBAS) and the International Commission on Occupational Health (ICOH). During the Conference, Prof. Jorma Rantanen declared ICOH's unequivocal support for a global asbestos ban; this position is rooted in the experiences of ICOH members who have observed the dire consequences of hazardous asbestos exposures on their patients in industrialized countries. Prof. Rantanen urged that concerted action be taken by international agencies, national governments, trade unions and NGOs to raise awareness of the asbestos hazard and to highlight the long-term economic benefits of transferring to non-asbestos technologies.
The "Bangkok Declaration", recalling the ILO resolution on Asbestos, the ILO Conventions on Occupational Cancer (No. 139), the Safety in the Use of Asbest