[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cedric Prakash

n initiative for inter-religious dialogue, communal harmony and peace. The activities of SXSSS were in the slums of Ahmedabad and in the rural areas of North and Central Gujarat. Prakash was for several years a Counterpart of the US-based Catholic Relief Services (CRS) for North and Central Gujarat.

In June 1992, Fr. Prakash was one of the NGO delegates from India, at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), also known as the ‘Earth Summit’ in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In September 1994, he participated in the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo, Egypt. In June 1997, Fr. Prakash participated in the European Ecumenical Assembly at Graz, Austria. In the wake of the devastating earthquake that hit several parts of Gujarat on 26 January 2001 (and later) Fr. Prakash coordinated an Earthquake Relief and Rehabilitation Service (EARRS). The platform that brought together several concerned organizations and individuals worked towards the immediate relief and rehabilitation of those affected by the earthquake. Distribution of food and other materials were also undertaken. Fr Prakash was also responsible for receiving directly from the US Government and distributing a huge consignment of relief materials to the affected persons.

Activism and organisational leadership
On 2 October 2001, Fr. Prakash founded Prashant, the Ahmedabad-based Jesuit Centre for Human Rights, Justice and Peace and was the Director of this Centre till January 2016. Prashant was also the Province Office for Integral Social Development (POISD)of the Gujarat Jesuits- dedicated to coordinate developmental, justice and peace works of the province. Fr. Prakash also served as the Secretary of Social Communications – C.B.C.I. (Western Region), National Vice-President – Peoples' Union for Human Rights (PUHR).

For three years (2016-2018), Fr. Prakash was based in Beirut, Lebanon in the Regional Office of the Jesuit Refugee Service (Middle East and North Africa Region) as the Regional Advocacy and Communications Officer/Advisor, working with refugees and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Syria, Jordan, Iraq, and Lebanon. In collaboration with St Joseph's University, Beirut he headed and in September 2018 completed a path-breaking research study, ‘Journeying Together’, on the situation of the Syrian refugees in Lebanon.

Awards
In 1996, Fr. Prakash was awarded The Anubhai Chimanlal Nagarika Puraskar by the Mayor of Ahmedabad for his contribution to the city of Ahmedabad, India.  He was also conferred the Kabir Puraskar by the President of India for his work in the promotion of Communal Harmony and Peace in 1995 .In 2006, Fr. Prakash was named Chevalier of the Legion of Honor, one of the highest French civilian awards, acknowledging his commitment to the defense and the promotion of human rights in India.

Fr. Prakash has also been awarded the Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Award presented for Humanitarian Work by the Indian Muslim Council, US, in 2003. He also received the Fr. Parmananda Divarkar Award for Communication for Peace in January 2004 for promoting dialogue for peace and inter-community harmony. In 2006, he received the Minorities Rights Award by the National Commission for Minorities of the Government of India.

The Marquette University in Wisconsin, US, honored him as the Wade Chair Scholar for the academic year 2009 – 2010. Fr. Prakash was one of the recipients of Mother Teresa Awards for Social Justice in 2013. On 1 December 2021, Fr. Prakash was conferred the Fr. Louis Careno Award by the Indian Catholic Press Association (ICPA) in Mumbai for his courageous contribution to journalism and bold writings on socio-cultural and political issues, especially relating to communalism and fundamentalism.

Fr. Prakash received the Lifetime Achievement Award from The Federation of Konkani Catholic Associations (FKCA - a premier umbrella organization representing 33 Konkani Catholic Associations in India and overseas) on 5 June 2022 for his work as a human rights and peace activist and his service to the marginalized communities in India.

Publications
In October 2018, the Loyola Press Chicago published a brilliant coffee-table-style book ‘Sharing the Wisdom of Time’ by Pope Francis and Friends.  One of Fr. Prakash's real-life stories is featured in it. Pope Francis has written a warm personal response in the book to Fr. Prakash's testimony.

Gallery

References

1951 births
Living people
Activists from Karnataka
21st-century Indian Jesuits
Knights of the Legion of Honour
Mangaloreans
20th-century Indian Jesuits