[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Gaffey

ent criminals supported by Governor M. Jodi Rell.

Thomas P. Gaffey was the father of three children. His son, Thomas M. Gaffey died on February 2, 2009, at the age of 16. In 2005 the Connecticut Appellate Court denied the Senator's ex-wife's request for increased child support.

CSU bonding scandal

On December 2, 2007, Hartford Courant columnist Kevin Rennie detailed Gaffey's efforts on behalf of a billion dollar bonding proposal from the Connecticut State University system; which he promoted while being romantically involved with the university administrator lobbying for the proposal. Much of Rennie's story detailed personal communication between Gaffey and his girlfriend over state e-mail accounts. On December 3, 2007, Senate Minority Leader John McKinney and Republican State Chairman Chris Healy demanded an investigation into whether Gaffey's conduct violated state ethics rules. The Democratic senate caucus was split on the need to investigate, with Fairfield County Democrats Andrew McDonald and Bob Duff suggesting an investigation was needed, while Senate President Donald E. Williams Jr. flatly rejected the idea. On December 7, the Hartford Courant's editorial page called on Gaffey to be censured for his role in this affair, despite a letter from the Office of State Ethics refuting all conflict of interest allegations.

Both Gaffey and Rennie had stories in the December 9, 2007, Courant. Gaffey said there had been nothing improper in his relationship with the university lobbyist, citing his record of support for state colleges. Rennie's article alleged self-dealing by Gaffey, including getting Final Four basketball tickets from the university at a low price and using his political action committee to pay personal expenses.

On December 11, Democratic senators proposed ethics reforms for the legislature. They denied it was done in response to the Gaffey scandal. On December 14, Gaffey asked Williams to be reassigned off the committee responsible for oversight of CSU. One Democratic senator, Edith Prague, defended Gaffey, asserting "He didn't steal anything".

Republican Tim Lenox is challenging Gaffey in the November 2008 election but was defeated by Gaffey. Following the election, Gaffey's ally, Senate President Donald E. Williams Jr., removed Senator Joan Hartley from chairmanship of the Higher Education Committee, a move viewed as retaliation for opposing Gaffey's bonding proposals.

Conviction and resignation

In June 2009 the State Election Enforcement Commission fined Gaffey for a double billing scandal involving his political action committee, the GAFPAC. Gaffey ran for re-election in 2010 and despite the scandal, defeated Republican Len Suzio.

After the election the State's Attorney's office continued its investigation into whether Gaffey violated criminal statutes. On January 3, 2011 Gaffey was arrested for larceny. He resolved the criminal charges by agreeing to plead guilty to a misdemeanor, resign his state senate seat effective January 5, 2011, and serve 100 hours of community service. On January 5, 2011 Gaffey submitted his resignation to Secretary of the State Susan Bysiewicz and submitted his plea to Superior Court Judge Julia Dewey, who accepted the plea agreement.

References

External links
Official website

1958 births
Living people
Democratic Party Connecticut state senators
Connecticut politicians convicted of crimes
Politicians from Meriden, Connecticut