[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of former Muslims

id. Frank publicly converted to Islam in 1757 and later to Christianity at Poland in 1759, but actually presented himself as the Messiah of a syncretic derivation of Shabbatai Zevi's Messianism now referred to as Frankism.
 James Scurry – British soldier and statesman.
 Jean-Bédel Bokassa – Central African Republic Emperor (from Roman Catholicism to Islam back to Roman Catholicism).
 Jessica Iskandar – Indonesian actress and model (from Christianity to Islam back to Christianity).
 Johannes Avetaranian – (born Muhammad Shukri Efendi), Christian missionary and Turkish descendant of Muhammad.
 Josef Mässrur – (born Ghäsim Khan) missionary to Chinese Turkestan with the Mission Union of Sweden.
 Josephine Bakhita – Roman Catholic saint from Darfur, Sudan.
 Julia Volkova – Russian singer and actress best known as a member of the Russian pop duo, t.A.T.u.
 Justinus Darmojuwono – first Indonesian cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church; served as Archbishop of Semarang from 1963 to 1981, and was elevated to the cardinalate in 1967; converted to Catholicism in 1932.
 Kabeer Gbaja-Biamila – American football player
 Kassian Cephas – Indonesian photographer.
Kiki Fatmala – Arab Indonesian actress.
 Kitty Kirkpatrick – daughter of James Achilles Kirkpatrick, British Resident in Hyderabad and Khair-un-Nissa, a Hyderabadi noblewoman.
 Kyai Sadrach – Indonesian missionary.
 Lakandula – Lakan of the pre-colonial Kingdom of Tondo
 Lina Joy – Javanese Malaysian former Muslim converted to Roman Catholicism. The desire to have her conversion recognized by law was the subject of a court case in Malaysia.
 Lukman Sardi – Indonesian actor converted to Christianity after marriage.
 Lyasan Utiasheva – Russian gymnast, convert to Eastern Orthodox Christianity.

 Magdi Allam – Italy's most famous Islamic affairs journalist.
 Majeed Rashid Mohammed – Kurdish Christian convert from Islam. He established a network with former Kurdish Muslims with about 2,000 members today.
 Malika Oufkir – author, activist and former prisoner of the Moroccan royal family.
Manohara Odelia Pinot – Indonesian model and actress. Former wife of Malaysian Kelantanese prince Tengku Muhammad Fakhry Petra.
 Maria Aurora von Spiegel – (born Fatima) was a Turkish mistress of Augustus II the Strong and the wife of a Polish noble.
 Maria Huberdina Hertogh – Dutch-Indonesian child kidnapped and forcibly converted to Islam during the World War II in 1943 by Malay Muslims but was eventually returned to her Catholic family in 1950.
 Maria Temryukovna – Circassian princess, and second wife to Ivan IV of Russia who was born in a Muslim upbringing, and baptised into the Russian Orthodox Church on August 21, 1561.
 Marina Nemat – Canadian author of Iranian descent and former political prisoner of the Iranian government. Born into a Christian family, she converted to Islam in order to avoid execution but later reverted to Christianity.
 Mark A. Gabriel – Egyptian writer
 Mark Huda Junayed Fino – Bangladeshi raised as a Muslim but converted to Protestantism in 2010.
 Mary Fillis
 Mathieu Kérékou – President of Benin (from Christianity to Islam back to Christianity).
 Matthew Ashimolowo – Nigerian-born British pastor and evangelist.
 Mehdi Dibaj – Iranian pastor and Christian activist.
 Mehmet Ali Ağca – Turkish ultra-nationalist assassin, who shot and wounded Pope John Paul II on May 13, 1981. In early 2009, Ağca renounced Islam in prison and announced his intention to convert to the Catholic faith upon release.
 Michał Czajkowski – Polish-Cossack writer and political emigre who worked both for the resurrection of Poland and the reestablishment of a Cossack Ukraine.
 Mohammed Elewonibi – Nigerian-Canadian football player
 Mohammed Hegazy – first Egyptian Muslim convert to Christianity to seek official recognition of his conversion from the Egyptian Government.
 Momolu Dukuly – Liberian foreign minister.
 Mosab Hassan Yousef – son of Sheikh Hassan Yousef, a Hamas founder and one of its leader.
 Moussa Dadis Camara – ex-officer of the Guinean army.
 Muhsin Muhammad – football player for Carolina Panthers
 Nabeel Qureshi – former Ahmadi Muslim and now co-director of Acts 17 Apologetics Ministries. He has given lectures at universities and seminaries throughout North America.
 Nafa Urbach – Indonesian singer, actress and model.
 Nasir Siddiki – Canadian evangelist, author, and business consultant.
 Nazli Sabri – Queen consort of Egypt.
 Nonie Darwish – Egyptian-American writer and public speaker.
 Nur Luke – Uyghur Bible translator.
Olavo de Carvalho – Brazilian polemicist, philosopher, political pundit, astrologer and journalist.
Omar ibn Sa'id – Fula writer and Islamic scholar who was enslaved and transported to the United States in 1807.
 Parveen Babi – Indian actress, converted to Christianity during her later life, but buried according to Muslim rites.
 Patrick Sookhdeo – British Anglican canon
 Paul Mulla – Turkish scholar and professor of Islamic Studies at the Pontifical O