[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rawatbhata

Rawatbhata is a city, Tehsil and Nagar Palika in Chittorgarh District, Rajasthan, India. It is 131 km from Chittorgarh city, 50 km from the nearest city, Kota. The city has eight nuclear power stations, an under-construction nuclear fuel complex and a heavy water plant. Rawatbhata also has the biggest dam of Rajasthan, Rana Pratap Sagar Dam, which is built on the Chambal River. The dam is equipped with a 172 MW hydroelectric power station.

Rawatbhata Panchayat was promoted to Rawatbhata Municipality on 31st December 1997. Rawatbhata City is divided into 40 wards for which elections are held every 5 years. Rawatabhata Municipality has administration over 8,397 houses to which it supplies basic amenities like water and sewerage.

Geography
Rawatbhata is located at . It has an average elevation of 325 metres (1066 feet).

Climate

Demographics

 India census, Rawatbhata had a population of 37,701. Males constituted 51.8% of the population and females 48.2%. Rawatbhata had a literacy rate of 85.82%, higher than the national literacy rate of 74.04%: Male literacy was 92.19%, and female literacy was 79.01%. In Rawatbhata, 12.27% of the population is under 6 years of age. The place is mainly dominated by Gurjars. In 1960s, due to the location of this remote place on Chambal river and least resistance by local tribal communities, this place was chosen for building nuclear power plant with support from Canadian-based AECL.

Schools

Private Schools

Schools include Shri Guru Teg Bahadur Shikshan Sansthan, Modern Public Senior Secondary School, New Dimension Public School, Shree Ram Bal Vidhya Mandir, St. Paul Secondary School, The Pinnacle School Badoliya, Royal Public School, Adarsh Vidhya Mandir School, and Alpha Secondary School.

Government Schools

Central Government
Atomic Energy Education Society  which has headquarters in Mumbai, runs 
 Atomic Energy Central School No.2 ( Classes Pre- Prep to 10th-CBSE-English Medium)
 Atomic Energy Central School No.3 (Classes Pre- Prep to 12th -Arts & Commerce CBSE) (Pre-Prep to VI – English Medium & VII to XII – Both Medium)
 Atomic Energy Central School No.4 (Classes Pre-Prep to 12th – Science CBSE- English Medium). 

AECS No. 4 is also very proud of Shreya Ghoshal as she is an alumnus of this school.

The AEES administrates all the AEC schools all over India where there are centres of Department of Atomic Energy.
These schools admit students whose parents are in the Department of Atomic Energy and other Central Government Departments as well as Non-DAE's but charge them higher fees.

State Government
There are two (1 boys & 1 girls)  Senior Secondary Schools, 
2 Secondary Schools, 2 Upper Primary Boys,
5 Primary Schools and 1 Sanskrit Secondary school.

Colleges

Government College. (B.A, B.Com & B.Sc)
Government Industrial Training Institute. (Fitter Welder & Electronics)
Shikhar Private ITI. (Electrician) 
Shradhalaya Janhati B.Ed College, (B.Ed & STC)
Shree Vishwakarma ITI Center. (Fitter & Electrician)

Post office

There are 3 post offices at Vikram Nagar, Anu Kiran & Bazar, and one Post Office franchisee at New Market.

Religious places

Shree Devnarayan Chauhan Gurjar Mandir
Shree Charbhuja Nath Mandir
Mukteshwer Mahadev Mandir
Shree Laxmi Narayan Mandir
Sai Baba Mandir
Ram Mandir
Manav Mandir
Hanuman Mandir
Sarvjanik Ganesh Manjir
Asha Pura Mandir
Durga Mata Mandir
Baba Ram Dev Ji Mandir
Shiv Mandir
Ganesh Mandir
Punch Mukhi Hanuman Mandir
Baroli Mandir
Brahma Mandir
Shani Dev Mandir
Digamber Jain Mandir
Shree Parshvanath Digamber Jain Mandir
Jain Sweatember Mandir
Jama Masjid
Madina Masjid
United Church
Gurudwara

Places of interest

Baroli Temple Complex
The Baroli Temples are located in Baroli Village in Rawatbhata. The complex of eight Temples is situated within a walled enclosure; an additional temple is about 1km away. They are built in the Gurjar Pratihar style of temple architecture dated to the tenth century A.D. All nine Temples are under the control of the Archaeological Survey of India for conservation and protection.

Rana Pratap Sagar Dam

Rana Pratap Sagar Dam on Chambal River is located near the city. The dam has power generation capability. It also supports a road connecting Rawatbhata to a nearby township，Vikram Nagar located on a small hill. On the top of the hill there is a large metal statue of Maharana Pratap, which is a view point over the city.

The Rana Pratap Sagar Dam is one among the four consequent dams constructed on the Chambal River which are Gandhi Sagar Dam, Rana Pratap Sagar Dam, Jawahar Sagar Dam and the Kota Barrage, the first three have electricity generation capacity while Kota Barrage is for irrigation.

The Rana Pratap Sagar Dam facilitates fishing activities in the nearby villages and is also responsible for supplying water to the Rajasthan Atomic Power Station for generation of electricity.