[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eric Moonman

Eric Moonman (29 April 1929 – 22 December 2017) was a British Labour politician. He was Member of Parliament (MP) for Billericay (1966–70) and Basildon (1974–79).

Moonman was educated at Liverpool and Manchester Universities and became a senior research fellow in the Department of Management Science at Manchester University. He was a councillor on Stepney Borough Council, serving as Council Leader until 1965, and on the London Borough of Tower Hamlets from 1964.

Moonman contested Chigwell in 1964 without success and was elected for Billericay in the 1966 general election, losing the seat four years later. He then was elected for Basildon at the February 1974 election, but again lost his seat at the 1979 general election.

After his second electoral defeat, Moonman pursued an academic career, and became Professor of Management at City University, London and senior fellow, University of Liverpool.

Moonman was chair of Poale Zion (Great Britain) and president of Zionist Federation of Great Britain and Ireland.

Early life
Eric Moonman was born in Liverpool on 29 April 1929 to Borach and Leah Moonman. He attended Rathbone School in Liverpool which he left at the age of 13 to begin a seven-year apprenticeship at WJ Pugh Printers and then the Liverpool Echo. After the war, Moonman undertook his national service in the King's Liverpool Regiment from 1951 to 1953, during which he took courses in military studies as well as evening classes in subjects such as public speaking. In 1954 he gained a place at the University of Liverpool to study for a Diploma in Social Science. At Liverpool, he edited the university magazine and became chairman of the Labour Society. Moonman was awarded his diploma in 1955.

After Parliament

Work on Israel
In June 1967, the Foreign Secretary George Brown made a speech to the UN General Assembly on the Israel-Arab Conflict. Moonman was one of a number of Labour MPs to accuse Brown of "taking sides" against Israel. At a Jewish ex-servicemen's rally in Southend, Moonman called Brown's speech a "serious embarrassment" and said he had "aggressively departed" from the Government's neutral policy, giving "harsh and arrogant advice" to the Israelis.<ref>Philip Rawstone, 'MPs accuse Mr Brown of 'taking sides, The Guardian, 23 June 1967</ref>

In 1972 Moonman was at the World Jewish Congress in Switzerland. He approached Stephen Roth, then director of the European Jewish Congress, and told him that changes had to be made in the way that Israel represented itself abroad. Roth accordingly gave him permission to start up a commission on Israel. In 1974, Moonman convened the first gathering of Jewish professionals to work out propaganda strategies.

The group subsequently met twice every year, once in Europe in the summer and once in Jerusalem in the autumn. Moonman was "the founder and guiding light" of the organisation which became the West European Public Relations Group for Information on Behalf of Israel. The group was initially funded by the World Jewish Congress which later withdrew its funding. From 1980 it was funded instead by the World Zionist Organization and from 1985 also by the Israel Foreign Ministry. The Register of Members' Interests 1975/6 records that Moonman visited a conference in Brussels in February 1976, which was probably the winter meeting of the West European Public Relations Group for Information on Behalf of Israel. The register records that Moonman was there as a representative of the Parliamentary Committee for the release of Soviet Jewry.

By 1975, Moonman was chairman of the Zionist Federation of Great Britain. In August that year he met with the Home Secretary Roy Jenkins to protest against the planned visit to London by two members of the Palestinian National Council (the political wing of the PLO). Moonman criticised the visit as "an attempt to become respectable". He added "we demean ourselves as human beings if at a convenient point of time we overlook the track record of these people".

In June 1977, The Sunday Times published a front-page story and a four-page 'Insight' investigation reporting the alleged torture of Palestinian prisoners in the occupied territories. The Israeli Embassy in London called the assertions a "vicious slander as it is insulting to the only democracy and free judiciary in the area". Moonman made three complaints about the reports to the Press Council, complaining that unproved accusations were reported as facts, that the paper misled readers with unsubstantiated quotes and headlines, and that Israel was denied the opportunity to comment before publication. His complaints were rejected.