[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ateret Cohanim

nd study halls that was not destroyed by Jordan during the Jordanian rule  of Jerusalem. In 1967, the caretaker gave the keys to Chaim Herzog (in his function as the military governor of the West Bank), telling him that "the holy place watched over me more than I watched over it" during those years.

Modern-day Yeshiva
Yeshivat Ateret Yerushalayim () is a continuation of the former Yeshiva, Torat Chaim, and is located within the same building as the old Yeshiva. In 1980, when Israel passed the Jerusalem Law, re-unifying Jerusalem, many began praying and learning again in the old Yeshiva building. In 1983, Yeshivat Ateret Yerushalayim began occupying the building, the first time the building was used for a Yeshiva in almost 50 years.

The Rosh yeshiva is Shlomo Aviner, and the Yeshiva serves the 1,000 Jewish residents of the Old City, including 250 Yeshiva Students. There are over 1,500 graduates of the Yeshiva.

Yeshiva Otzmat Yerushalayim
Yeshiva Otzmat Yerushalayim is a Yeshiva in the Arab neighborhoods near Herod's Gate announced in 2014 by Ateret Cohanim. In a letter to supporters, the Executive Director, Daniel Luria, announced the purchase of a property in the heart of East Jerusalem's business district on the corner of Salah ad-Din and Sultan Suleiman. The organization stated they planned to open a yeshiva named Otzmat Yerushalayim in May 2014, to celebrate the 47th year of the re-unification of Jerusalem. Local Arab business owners fear that the yeshiva will harm their businesses by bringing an inevitable increased militarization to the heart of this East Jerusalem neighborhood.

Today, the Yeshiva has partnered with Mechina boys from the Pre-Army Academy of Otzem in Cholot Chalutza. Due to the size of the Yeshiva, 30 boys will attend the new Yeshiva at a time. The students will learn for 1–2 weeks at a time, and also explore and tour the Old City.

American charities

American Friends of Ateret Cohanim
American Friends of Ateret Cohanim, also known as Jerusalem Chai, was founded in New York City in 1987. Jerusalem Chai is a United States not-for-profit organization, with the purpose of fund-raising for Ateret Cohanim's land acquisitions in Israel.

In 2012, they raised $1 million, of which $120 thousand went to administrative purposes, $150 thousand was spent on fund-raising, and the remainder was used for programs in Israel. Jerusalem Chai is run by Shoshana Hikind, their executive vice-president, and Joseph Frager, their chairman.

American Friends of Yeshivat Ateret Yerushalayim
American Friends of Yeshivat Ateret Yerushalayim is a United States not-for-profit organization, with the purpose of fundraising for Ateret Cohanim's yeshivas in Israel. They were founded in 2007, and received not-for-profit status in January 2008. Between the years of 2007 and 2011 they raised $446,014 to support Yeshivat Ateret Yerushalayim.

Legal disputes

The organization has been involved in a number of legal disputes. In April 2009, members of Ateret Cohanim moved into a house in East Jerusalem over which it claimed ownership, despite a court ruling to the contrary. A spokesperson said that they had bought the property. In the East Jerusalem neighborhood of Silwan, Ateret Cohanim also built Beit Yonatan, a six story apartment building named after Jonathan Pollard. It is currently guarded by a private organization which is now funded by the Israeli Ministry of Housing and Construction. The Supreme Court ruled the building illegal. Despite the order of eviction for Beit Yonatan, it was avoided when Jerusalem mayor Nir Barkat linked their eviction to the eviction of Palestinian families from a former synagogue prior to 1948. This delaying tactic permitted Barkat to avoid any eviction of the settler group from Beit Yonatan.

References

Further reading
A United Jerusalem - the story of Ateret Cohanim, Ann Johnson, Ktav pub., 1992,

External links
Official website of Ateret Cohanim
American Friends of Ateret Cohanim

Educational institutions established in 1978
Mechina
Orthodox yeshivas in Jerusalem
Religious Zionist yeshivot
1978 establishments in Israel
Muslim Quarter (Jerusalem)