[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Lowry War

4th Regiment U.S. Artillery from Fort Johnston. During their stay the troops were not called upon by the local authorities to help them, and they withdrew at the end of the month. Morgan concluded that federal intervention was unhelpful and federal forces were never sent again to suppress the gang. 

Meanwhile, Aladon Strong Wishart and Robert Evander Wishart—the late colonel's respective younger brother and half-brother—reorganized the remnants of the county militia to launch a new search for the outlaws. After spying on the residents of Scuffletown, they learned Tom Lowry planned to attend a political meeting at Union Chapel on the morning of July 20. The militiamen erected a blind along the trail they expected Lowry to travel and lay in wait. Lowry came down the path as expected, accompanied by a friend. The militiamen opened fire, striking Lowry. He ran 100 yards away into a swamp before collapsing dead. The men took his body to Lumberton and collected a combined $6,200 in state and county bounties.

Steve Lowry and Andrew Strong no longer presented a great threat to county authorities, but continued to avoid capture. They still enjoyed the sympathies of the residents of Scuffletown and made public appearances in the community. In September they issued a "proclamation of outlawry" against several bounty hunters pursuing them, offering $200 reward for each. On December 25, they went to a store in Pates to confront a clerk, William Wilson, who had spoken ill of them. Strong threatened to kill Wilson if he did not leave the county the following day. The two outlaws left to partake in Christmas festivities, and Wilson loaded his shotgun in case they returned. Strong came back in the afternoon to make some purchases, and when he stepped out onto the porch Wilson shot him in the back of the neck, killing him instantly. Wilson took the body to Lumberton, collected the relevant bounties, and left the area.

Throughout 1873 bounty hunters continued to search for Lowry. He eluded them but avoided public gatherings, staying close to swamps. He grew unhealthy and began drinking heavily. That year the General Assembly passed the Amnesty Act, which pardoned persons found responsible for political violence in the preceding years. The Conservative-backed measure was designed to protect members of the Ku Klux Klan, and the last section of the law read, "the provisions of this act shall not be construed to extend amnesty to [...] Steve Lowry." Lowry was the only person mentioned by name in the statute. Some of his friends petitioned the governor to pardon him, but their request was ignored.

In late February 1874, Lowry came out of hiding to join in a party at the John McNair planation. He laid down his rifle to play a banjo, but as he was about to start three bounty hunters who had been tracking him attacked; two shot him while the third struck him with an axe. The following day they took his body to Lumberton and collected the bounty, and the Lowry War ended.

Contemporary media coverage 

The Lowry War was frequently reported on by The Robesonian, a Lumberton-based weekly newspaper founded in 1870, and the Wilmington Morning Star, North Carolina's largest paper. The Robesonian's reports were reprinted in other state newspapers before being covered in other publications across the country. The Lowry Gang reportedly paid close attention to how it was portrayed in the media, seeking out editions of papers and expressing knowledge of certain articles. The Robesonian's editor stated that he was once threatened by Lowry about his style of coverage and briefly fled the county. Most of the local coverage was simply listings of reported crimes and gang sightings, often repeating official statements of the authorities. Press coverage of the gang's racial makeup was often confused and contradictory, with papers describing Lowry and his followers variously as negro, mulatto, or "Indian-like". Southern Conservative and Democratic newspapers favored portraying them as dark-skinned as part of a wider effort to blame lawlessness in the South on black freedmen and Republicans. The Raleigh News criticized Harper's Weekly for publishing drawings of the gang that showed them as light-skinned.

North Carolina's Democratic and Conservative papers generally used their comment on the Lowry War to attack the state's Republican government for ineffectiveness, and especially in contrast to Republicans' aggressive suppression of the Klan. The Greensboro Patriot derisively suggested that Lowry should be "the next Radical candidate for Gov. of N.C." Republicans' comments in the press, though condemning the gang's activities, usually accused the Conservative papers of exaggerating the violence and significance of the conflict for political gain.