[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# George Saitoti

stigations into the allegations.
However, on 31 July 2006, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Joseph Nyamu issued a certiorari order clearing Prof Saitoti of any wrongdoing, expunging his name from the Bosire Commission Report and issuing an order on permanent stay of prosecution against Saitoti.

In dismissing the 23 paragraphs of the report, the High Court bench cited three inter-related errors of commission and omission by the Bosire Commission:
 The inquiry into the Goldenberg fraud had created a pyramid of noticeable bias, discriminatory treatment of evidence, submissions and factual errors that undermined the pursuit of justice and fairness.
 The factual flaws, biased and unprofessional handling of evidence by Inquiry led to wrong findings. The Inquiry's claim that Prof Saitoti illegally approved the 15 per cent ex-gratia payments as additional payment over and above the 20 per cent export compensation allowed at the time under the law were factually wrong. Indeed, the customs refunds, which Saitoti was accused of approving, were actually passed by Parliament.
 Long delay and wrong findings by the Goldenberg inquiry denied Prof. Saitoti any conceivable chance fair trial and justice.

On 15 November 2006, President Kibaki reappointed Saitoti back to Cabinet.
In April 2012, the vetting board found Justice Samuel Bosire unfit to serve in the judiciary citing fails as the Chairman of the Goldenberg Commission of Inquiry. He ignored a High Court Order to summon retired President Daniel arap Moi, Musalia Mudavadi and Nicholas Biwott as witnesses. The vetting board also accused Justice Nyamu of undermining public confidence in the courts for issuing a permanent stay of prosecution against Saitoti.

Linda Nchi
Starting October 2011, Saitoti worked closely with national Minister of Defence Mohamed Yusuf Haji to see through Linda Nchi, a coordinated operation in southern Somalia between the Somali military and the Kenyan military against the Al-Shabaab group of insurgents. The mission was officially led by the Somali army, with the Kenyan forces providing a support role. In early June 2012, Haji signed another agreement re-hatting Kenya's deployed military forces in Somalia under the AMISOM general command.

The Kibaki succession race
In November 2011, Saitoti confirmed that he was in the race to succeed President Kibaki, who is set to retire after the next general election. Saitoti reiterated his candidature in January 2012, continuing to tour Kenya, with meet-the-people excursions to the Rift Valley, Eastern and Central provinces.

It appeared to be history repeating itself in the battle for the soul of the Kikuyu between, Saitoti, a Maasai with Kikuyu kith and kin, and Uhuru Kenyatta, a thorough-bred Kikuyu. Uhuru is widely thought as the presumptive successor to President Kibaki, but Saitoti was emerging also, as a likely candidate. In the event that Uhuru's run for the presidency is thwarted by the confirmed charges by the ICC, it remains a too-up as to whether Saitoti would have benefited from the spin-off.

Private life
Saitoti was a businessman who had interests in agriculture, horticulture, real estates, hospitality and pastoralism.

Saitoti's family life received little publicity. His wife, Margaret Saitoti, was with him when the High Court dropped charges in the 16-year Goldenberg case. His brother, Ronald Musengi, has been a banking executive with the Kenya Commercial Bank. In February 2012, Ronald Musengi applied to be a member of the National Police Service Commission.

Death

Saitoti died on Sunday 10 June 2012 at around 9:00 am when a Eurocopter AS350 helicopter belonging to the Kenya Police Air Wing registration 5Y-CDT, carrying him and the Assistant Minister for Internal Security, Joshua Orwa Ojode, crashed in the Kibiku area of Ngong forest, killing them and four others. He was buried on 16 June in Kajiado North constituency. After the Maasai elders agreed to abandon the traditional burial rites and embrace the Catholic way, fifty bulls were slaughtered at the funeral in accordance with Maasai tradition. Al Shabaab militias and drug traffickers are the main suspects for the disaster. Investigations have not yet found anyone guilty.  Saitoti was to table a ministerial statement in Parliament.

List of publications
Saitoti, G. (2005). "Keynote address given during the official opening of the sub-regional seminar for TIVET policy makers and UNESCO UNEVOC Center Coordinators". Nairobi, Kenya.

(2004). "Education in Kenya: Challenges and policy responses". Paper presented at the Council on
Foreign Relations, Washington D.C.

(2003) "National conference on education and training, Meeting the challenges of education and training during 21st century". Nairobi.

(2003). "Reflections on Africa Development", Journal of Third World Studies.

Saitoti, G. and KANU Review Committee(2002), Report of the KANU Review Committee, 1990. The Committee, Nairobi.