[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Songpa District

masked dance, classical dance, farm music, and other folk songs. The domed hall accommodates 2,500 spectators, and performances are staged for four seasons.

"Suyo-mudae" stages noble artistic performances like plays, operas, and musicals every Wednesday in Songpa Gumin Hall, run by Songpa District.

To develop and expand local culture and art, Songpa District supports a variety of art troupes. The district runs a choir that won a number of national competitions, a symphony orchestra that promotes classical music, a multiple-genre ballet troupe, a folk art troupe formed to promote Korean traditional arts, and a silver choir and silver orchestra, both of which are showing the power of the elderly in national events and TV and radio music shows. These art troupes voluntarily do their jobs for the community.

Environment

In response to climate change, Songpa District is implementing new policies and projects, such as the Waterway Project. Additional actions include transferring an unacceptable facility to the outer area, improving transportation systems in response to the increase in transportation volume, and expanding parks and green zones.

Solar power plant "Nanum"
To reduce air pollution and help low-income residents, Songpa District invested 300 million won in the solar power plant "Nanum" project. Of the profit earned by the power plant, 25% is used to pay for low-income households' utility fee, another 25% goes to people in need in the third world, and the other 50% is being invested in a second Nanum plant. An estimated 600 million won will be used to support low-income families in Songpa for the next 15 years.

Further solar energy savings come from 44 LED solar streetlights installed alongside the walking course by Jangji stream. One solar streetlight produces 225W of electricity an hour, and stays on for 3 days when it is exposed to the sun for four hours.

Climate change leadership

During the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group talks designed to build cooperation among major cities aimed to be low carbon dioxide cities, Songpa's policies against global warming were introduced. The EXPO ensured Songpa District's position as a leading community in Korea to cope with the climate change by demonstrating the accomplishment effectively. During the EXPO, Songpa's best practices to deal with the climate change were presented. These included 'Songpa Nanum powerhouse',' Home Doctor', 'Songpa SPB (the unattended bicycle rental)', 'A model apartment for coping with the climate change', and the project 'the city on the water'. And also, a generator that charges cell phone by riding a bicycle was displayed on 'a climate play ground'.

Songpa organized "Green Songpa Committee" for the first time among Korea's municipal governments. An environment governance organization consisting of environmental specialists, NGOs, businessmen, residents, and government officers evaluate and advise the district's environment policies. The committee is taking the lead in environmental initiatives.

Songpa District established a "CO2 Mileage" policy in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emission. Under the policy, the amount of saved energy—including electricity, gas, and water—from every home is counted by points, and residents use the points like cash. Songpa plans to encourage half of its residents to participate in the voluntary policy by 2010.

District of Water

In the Waterway Project, Songpa District will link together four nearby streams (Han River, Seongnae stream, Jangji stream, and Tan stream), transforming the district into unique island-like area when completed by 2012. This project is aimed at building Songpa into an eco-friendly district where water, nature, and humans are harmonized with one another. Similar projects include the Nature Eco Network—a 27-km-long forest with a willow valley and nature reserve—the Walk Network, and the Bicycle Network.

Seokchon Lake, which was generated from the Han River as the result of the multiple purpose development of Jamsil in the 1970s, had been averted by the residents because of a nasty smell, in spite of the fact that it's the only lake in the downtown of Seoul. The smell came from water pollution from concrete materials. But, following ecological restoration efforts in the 2000s, it was reborn as a park that attracts 20,000–30,000 visitors on weekdays (over 50,000 on weekends), as well as providing habitat for animals, plants, and aquatic species.

Following restoration efforts, in June 2005, Sungnae-chun was also resuscitated as a beautiful river. It was previously a dried river due to the low volume of water flow during the 1970s and 1980s. But in 2009, it was selected as 'the most beautiful 100 rivers in Korea' by Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs.

Bicycle infrastructure