[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2009 European Parliament election

ratified. The latter was to require a decision by the European Council.

† – Includes Gibraltar, but not any of the other overseas territories or Crown dependencies.Italicised countries are divided into sub-national constituencies.

Sources: Institutions: EP , Const. changes, Protocol 34.

Campaign

Many of the national parties running in the election are affiliated to transnational pan-European political parties known as political parties at European level. Those pan-European parties are EPP, PES, ELDR, EFA, European Greens, AEN, PEL, EDP and EUD. The question of which was the first to campaign transnationally is the subject of some debate, with the European Greens stating that they were the first in 2004.
New parties that aspired to pan-European status during the 2009 elections include Newropeans, Europe United, Europe – Democracy – Esperanto and Libertas Party Limited. The role for pan-European political parties has been expanded by changes enacted by the European Commission in 2007 under the direction of Margot Wallström.

Four incumbent European Commissioners were to run as candidates in the election: Viviane Reding (Luxembourg, information society & media, Christian Social People's Party/EPP), Louis Michel (Belgium, development & humanitarian aid, Reformist Movement/ELDR), Danuta Hübner (Poland, regional policy, Civic Platform/EPP), Meglena Kuneva (Bulgaria, consumer protection, National Movement for Stability and Progress/ELDR). Ján Figeľ (Slovakia, education, training & culture, Christian Democratic Movement/EPP) was tipped to run but ultimately did not, instead seeking to become the new chairman of his party.

Kuneva later decided not to take up her seat in the European Parliament.

Issue-based campaigns
These divide into EU-wide and nationally based campaigns, often by non-governmental organisations focussed on specific policy areas.  They are designed to influence MEP candidates, those with a strong interest in the issue, and voters in general.  Examples of nationally based campaigns include those of the Royal College of Nursing and British Overseas NGOs for Development.

Media coverage
The European Parliament, National broadcasters, the EBU, with the cooperation of the Communication Commissioner, Margot Wallström, are jointly working to make the 2009 election more interesting to the public and increase turnout. Previously, diverse news media in the European Union, and the fact that the election takes place over several days, have made it hard to attract viewers. The media consortium is hoping to focus the 2009 election more towards the EU level and the European Parliament itself, hoping to make the election more interesting and cosmetically appealing for television viewers. 

From 1 April Parliament started putting up election posters, internet banners and billboards encouraging people to vote, with messages such as "How much should we tame financial markets?" to demonstrate the role of Parliament. The same 10 posters, designed by Berlin-based advertising company Scholz & Friends Group, were translated into all 23 languages and have been deployed across the whole of the EU. However, some posters are put up more in countries where the issues they present are of more significance and the most posters will be put up in those countries which had the lowest turnout in 2004. The end slogan is "Use your vote in the European Parliament Elections" with the date of the election in that country. The entire campaign costs 18 million euros, or 0.05 euros per eligible voter, with Germany, Spain and Italy donating some advertising space free of charge.

Role of the Treaty of Lisbon
It had initially been foreseen that the Treaty of Lisbon would have entered into force by the time of these elections, making them the first to be held under its provisions. However, primarily because of the No vote in the referendum in Ireland, the framework established by the Treaty of Nice will be used again. Amongst other differences, the number of MEPs to be returned depends upon which rules are in effect: while 736 MEPs will be elected under the Nice rules, this number would have increased to 751 if the Lisbon Treaty were in force.

A further change that Lisbon would have brought was an increase to the powers of Parliament, including powers over the appointment of the President of the European Commission. It had been suggested by some that political parties could run with candidates for the Commission President; with leaders now linking the post to elections and that convention having been enshrined in the Constitution, further encouraging the possibility.