[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Sharron Angle

d out."

Asked to comment on the latter, her spokesman Jerry Stacy said via email: "Sharron Angle does not advocate a revolution. Her goal is to go to Washington with other like-minded elected officials who understand the proper role of the federal government as already defined by our Constitution."

Congressman Jim Clyburn said in January 2011 that "Sharron Angle's endorsement of 'Second Amendment remedies' in her losing Nevada campaign against Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid contributed to the shooting of Rep. Gabby Giffords."  Columnist E.J. Dionne did not blame Angle, but he did point out the connection between her call for "Second Amendment remedies" and the 2011 Tucson shooting.  CBS News, in a "nationwide telephone poll" of 673 adults, with a margin of error of 4%, found that "57 percent of respondents said the harsh political tone had nothing to do with the shooting, compared to 32 percent who felt it did."

Personal life
Angle was born in Klamath Falls, Oregon, and moved to Reno, Nevada, when she was three. Her father is a Navy veteran of World War II and served in the Navy Reserve during the Korean War. She attended public schools in Reno and later obtained a bachelor of fine arts from the University of Nevada. During her senior year of college in 1970, she married Theodore ("Ted") Angle, who worked for the federal government's Bureau of Land Management (BLM) as a native seed and invasive species specialist. Ted and Sharron Angle had two children and, as of November 2010, ten grandchildren.

Angle attends a small Southern Baptist church in Reno. After graduation, she worked as a substitute teacher in Ely, Tonopah and Reno for 25 years, ran a family fitness gym in Tonopah, tutored juvenile offenders for Nye County, and for two years was the lead-teacher/administrator for a small "one-room" Christian school. She also taught art for five years as a lecturer at Western Nevada Community College in Winnemucca.

Angle is the author of Right Angle: One Woman's Journey to Reclaim the Constitution, which was published in 2011.

References

External links

 Sharron E. Angle official Nevada Legislature website
 Sharron Angle for U.S. Senate official campaign website
 
 Financial information (state office) at the National Institute for Money in State Politics
 Issue positions and quotes at On the Issues
 
 Collected news and commentary at The New York Times
 Campaign contributions at OpenSecrets

|-

|-

1949 births
American far-right politicians
20th-century American far-right politicians
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
Candidates in the 2006 United States elections
Candidates in the 2010 United States elections
Christians from Nevada
Christians from Oregon
Living people
Republican Party members of the Nevada Assembly
Politicians from Klamath Falls, Oregon
Politicians from Reno, Nevada
Southern Baptists
Tea Party movement activists
University of Nevada, Reno alumni
Women state legislators in Nevada
Schoolteachers from Nevada
American women educators