[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# International Islamic Fiqh Academy

International Islamic Fiqh Academy () is an international Islamic institution for the advanced study of Islamic jurisprudence and law based in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. It was founded following a resolution by the Third Islamic Summit Conference of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, held in Mecca, that called for the establishment of an Islamic Fiqh Academy. The International Islamic Fiqh Academy was established in June 1983 as a subsidiary organ of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. It consists of 57 member states and representatives.

Based on both traditional Islamic sciences and modern fields of knowledge, the IIFA seeks to advance knowledge in the realms of culture, science, and economics. The main objective of the IIFA is to address issues related to humanity in accordance with Sharia and Islamic ethics. The IIFA's activities revolve around concluding researches and documentations as well as organizing events and meetings between Islamic scholars and experts in various fields of knowledge. The resolutions and recommendations of the Academy deal with various global issues  from the perspective of Fiqh.

The IIFA serves as the OIC's jurisprudential agency and legal arm. It also advises and cooperates with other non-Islamic organizations and Fiqh councils. The IIFA convenes annually gathering the most prominent Islamic experts on the globe. The current president is Sheikh Dr. Salih bin Abdullah al Humaid, Imam of the Grand Mosque in Makkah. Its Secretary-General is Prof. Koutoub Moustapha Sano, a former Minister of Religious Affairs in the Republic of Guinea, a recognized Islamic scholar and thinker.

History

Background 

The International Islamic Fiqh Academy was established in June 1983 as a result of an OIC resolution during the Third Islamic Summit in Makkah.

Presidents and Secretaries-General 

The Academy has had 2 presidents and 4 Secretaries-General since its foundation. The Secretary-General of the Academy is appointed by a decree of the OIC from among the most eminent members of the Academy, to serve this position for a renewable term of four years.

The current Secretary-General of the IIFA is Professor Koutoub Moustapha Sano who took office in October 2020 after having held for a dozen years several high level positions in the government of the Republic of Guinea, mainly as Minister of Religious Affairs, Minister of International Cooperation and Minister of Diplomatic Affairs in the Presidency of the Republic of Guinea. In 2007, while he was Deputy Rector (2005-2009) in charge of Internationalization and Innovation at the International Islamic University Malaysia, the former Sultan of Pahang, now King of Malaysia (2019-), conferred on him the honorific title of Dato.

Although the current Secretary-General's appointment predates the COVID-19 pandemic, his predecessor, Professor Abdulsalam al-Abbadi, succumbed on August 10, 2020, at the Saudi-German Hospital in Jeddah, a few weeks before the end of his term as Secretary-General of the Academy, reportedly due to complications related to COVID-19. He was buried in Jannat al-Mu'alla cemetery in Makkah.

Presidents:

1985–2007 / 1405-1429: Sheikh Dr. Bakr Abu Zayd, a Saudi Arabian Islamic scholar and former member of the Council of Senior Scholars and the Permanent Committee for Islamic Research and Issuing Fatwas.
2007/1429––present: Sheikh Dr. Salih bin Abdullah al Humaid, a Saudi Arabian Islamic scholar, current Imam Khatib at the Grand Mosque of Makkah, and Advisor to the Saudi Royal Court.

Secretaries-General:

1984–2008 / 1405-1429: Sheikh Dr. Mohamed Habib Belkhodja, former Grand Mufti of the Republic of Tunisia.
2011–2015 / 1432-1436: Prof. Ahmed Khaled Babkar, former Secretary-General of the Republic of Sudan's Islamic Fiqh Council.
2015–2020 / 1436-1442: Prof. Abdulsalam al-Abbadi, former Minister of Awqaf, Islamic Affairs, and Holy Sites of the  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
2020 / 1442––present: Prof. Koutoub Moustapha Sano, former Minister of Religious Affairs, and Adviser to the President of the Republic of Guinea.

Membership 

Since the IIFA is a subsidiary organ of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, it shares the same 57 Member states. Most of these countries are Muslim-majority countries, and the vast majority of them have an official representative elected by their governments to represent them in the Academy. Many of these representatives are former or current Ministers of Religious Affairs, Grand Muftis, or prominent Islamic scholars.

Member states' representatives regularly participate in the Academy's annual conference and events, in addition to the hundreds of researchers, experts and scholars, from Member and non-Member states, who contribute to its annual conference and various seminars.

Mission and Purpose