[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Poly(A)-binding protein

end, facilitating multiple rounds of initiation on an mRNA. Alternatively, it may link translation to mRNA decay, as eRF3 appears to interfere with the ability of PABP1 to multimerise/form on poly(A), potentially leading to PABP1 dissociation, deadenylation and, ultimately, turnover.

Rotavirus NSP3

Rotavirus RNA-binding protein NSP3 interacts with eIF4GI and evicts the poly(A) binding protein from eIF4F. NSP3A by taking the place of PABP on eIF4GI, is responsible for the shut-off of cellular protein synthesis. Rotavirus mRNAs terminate a 3’ GACC motif that is recognized by the viral protein NSP3. This is the location where NSP3 competes with poly(A)-binding protein for eIF4G binding.

Once rotavirus infection occurs viral GACC-tailed mRNAs are translated while the poly(A)-tailed mRNA is severely impaired. In infected cells, there have been high magnitudes of both translation induction (GACC-tailed mRNA) and reduction (poly(A)-tailed mRNA) both dependent on the rotavirus strain. These data suggest that NSP3 is a translational surrogate of the PABP-poly(A) complex; therefore, it cannot by itself be responsible for inhibiting the translation of host poly(A)-tailed mRNAs upon rotavirus infection.

PABP-C1 evicted from eIF4G by NSP3 accumulates in the nucleus of rotavirus-infected cells. This eviction process requires rotavirus NSP3, eIF4G, and RoXaN. To better understand the interaction, modeling of the NSP3-RoXaN complex, demonstrates mutations in NSP3 interrupt this complex without compromising NSP3 interaction with eIF4G. The nuclear localization of PABP-C1 is dependent on the capacity of NSP3 to interact with eIF4G and also requires the interaction of NSP3 with a specific region in RoXaN, the leucine- and aspartic acid-rich (LD) domain. RoXaN is identified as a cellular partner of NSP3 involved in the nucleocytoplasmic localization of PABP-C1.

Associated diseases

OPMD
Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a genetic condition that occurs in adulthood often after the age of 40. This disorder usually leads to weaker facial muscles oftentimes showing as progressive eyelid drooping, swallowing difficulties, and proximal limb muscle weakness such as weak leg and hip muscles. People with this disorder are often hindered to the point that they have to use a cane in order to walk. OPMD has been reported in approximately 29 countries and the number affected varies widely by specific population. The disease can be inherited as an autosomal dominant or recessive trait.

Mutations
Mutations of poly(A)-binding protein nuclear 1 (PABPN1) can cause OPMD (oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy). What makes the PABPN1 protein so different than all other genes with disease causing expanded polyalanine tracts, is that it is not a transcription factor. Instead, PABPN1 is involved in the polyadenylation of mRNA precursors.

Mutations in PABPN1 that cause this disorder, result when the protein has an extended polyalanine tract (12-17 alanines long vs. the expected amount of 10). The extra alanines cause PABPN1 to aggregate and form clumps within muscles because they are not able to be broken down. These clumps are believed to disrupt the normal function of muscle cells which eventually lead to cell death. This progressive loss of muscle cells most likely causes the weakness in muscles seen in patients with OPMD. It is still not known why this disorder only affects certain muscles like the upper leg and hip. In recent studies on OPMD in Drosophila, it has been shown that the degeneration of muscles within those who are affected may not solely be due to the expanded polyalanine tract. It may actually be due to the RNA-binding domain and its function in binding.

Studies
As of November 2015, there has been a lot of effort devoted to research of OPMD and how one might treat it. Myoblast Transplantation has been suggested and is in fact in clinical trials in France. This is done by taking myoblasts from a normal muscle cell and putting them into pharyngeal muscles and allowing them to develop to help form new muscle cells. There has also been testing of compounds, either existing or developed, to see if they might combat OPMD and its symptoms. Trehalose is a special form of sugar that has shown reduced aggregate formation and delayed pathology in the mouse model of OPMD. Doxycycline also played a similar role in delaying toxicity of OPMD in mouse models most likely due to stopping aggregate formation and reduced apoptosis. Many other compounds and methods are currently being researched and showing some success in clinical trials leading to optimism in curing this disease.

Genes
Multiple human genes encode different protein isoforms and paralogs of PABP, including PABPN1, PABPC1, PABPC3, PABPC4, PABPC5.

References 

RNA-binding proteins