[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Romania and the euro

the target was challenging, but obtainable if the political parties passed a legal roadmap for implementing required reforms. This roadmap appeared able to lead Romania to entering the ERM II on 1 January 2017 so that the euro could be adopted after two years of ERM II membership on 1 January 2019.

In 2015, however, Isărescu again argued for a delay in the changeover to the euro. Ahead of ERM II entry, Romania would need to conduct monetary adjustments by finalizing the process to bring minimum reserve requirement ratios in line with Eurozone levels. Isărescu predicted the process would take twelve to eighteen months; Romania needed to complete major economic policy adjustments by:

 removing the sources of repressed inflation (i.e., completion of energy market deregulation);
 removing sources of quasi-fiscal deficits (by restructuring loss-making state-owned enterprises);
 removing other sources of future budgetary pressures (i.e., unavoidable expenditures to modernise road infrastructure).

In June 2015, Romania's Prime Minister Victor Ponta said he was open to the idea of holding a referendum on euro adoption.  However, the decisive trio, the President, BNR Governor and Finance Minister did not consider this option.

The target for "real convergence" ahead of euro adoption is for Romania's GDP per capita, in terms of purchasing power, to be above 60% of the average figure for the  EU. Forecasts predicted this could reach 65% in 2018 and 71% in 2020, after having risen from 29% in 2002 to 54% in 2014.

The Romanian government also expressed commitment to join all pillars of the Banking Union as soon as possible. However, in September 2015 Isărescu said that the 2019 target was no longer realistic. The Romanian foreign minister, Teodor Meleșcanu, declared on 28 August 2017 that as the country "meet(s) all formal requirements", Romania "could join the currency union even tomorrow". However, he thought Romania "will adopt the euro in five years, in 2022". In March 2018, members of the Social Democratic Party (PSD) voted at an extraordinary congress to back a 2024 target date to adopt the euro currency.

In February 2021, the Romanian Prime Minister, Florin Cîțu, announced that the date for Romanian adoption of the euro would be delayed again to 2027 or 2028. Then, in December 2021, , the first deputy governor of the BNR, said that the date would be once again delayed to 2029.

Current perspectives
There is no pressure on Romania to adhere to ERM in a certain year, followed by the adoption of the euro two years later. The EU Member States can use the derogation clause to prevent Romania from entering into ERM, and hold on to their monetary policies as a buffer against external shocks. The EU Commission and the European Council have not urged Romania, a euro candidate country, to join the Eurozone and it is not likely to happen in the future, due to rising doubts in Brussels and in capitals of some current Eurozone members regarding the wisdom of further Eurozone enlargement. Therefore, Romania has enough time to establish economic conditions under which the loss of monetary and fiscal sovereignty would be less painful.

Monetary and exchange rate policies 
In Romania, the main objective of the BNR is to ensure and maintain price stability while concurrently promoting the Government's general economic policy. As stated in Article 2 of Law 312/2004, the National Bank is responsible for defining and implementing the monetary policy strategy (Direct inflation targeting) and the exchange rate policy.

Over the years, the BNR has supported the monetary policy by progressively decreasing the policy rate. The first step achieved was between February 2009 and March 2012, when the BNR cut the policy rate by a cumulative 500 basis points, to 5.25%, followed by rapid decreases in the annual inflation rate, which made it possible for the BNR to resume downward adjustment of the policy rate. Between July 2013 and February 2014, the BNR cut the policy rate by a cumulative 175 basis points, to 3.5%.

Romania has managed floating exchange rates and is in line with using inflation targets as a nominal anchor for monetary policy and to enable flexible policy responses to unpredictable shocks that would potentially affect the economy. Reasons for not entering the euro area are complex, covering national problems, including insufficient economic convergence over a lacking perceived attractiveness of euro membership, as well as an unresolved institutional reform agenda (Backé and Dvorsky 2018).

Preparing the changeover to the euro
Disclaimer of the monetary policy instrument. Responsibility for monetary policy and exchange rate would pass to the European Central Bank, leaving Romania without the ability to control an important monetary policy instrument (the monetary policy interest rate) and giving up to the exchange rate, another instrument that contributes to adjusting the economy, especially during recessions.