[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Thornton Chase

oviding for a permanent home in the kingdom of their Creator.
In early 1899 Chase submitted an essay to the association's competition, and raised awareness of the religion in Cincinnati as well. Baháʼís including Chase were also known to frequent a restaurant named "Kimballs' Restaurant" in Chicago.

Classes on the Baháʼí Faith were organized in Chicago, and later in Enterprise, Kansas; Kenosha, Wisconsin; Ithaca, New York; New York City; Philadelphia; and Oakland, California. By 1899 there were many hundreds of Baháʼís in Chicago itself and close to 1500 among those cites. There had also begun to be some public attention to the point that it drew a public rebuke in the person of Stoyan Krstoff Vatralsky – and to whom Chase stood up in public to retort and there followed newspaper articles going back and forth.

In 1899 other American Baháʼís went on pilgrimage to Akka, Palestine, where they met ʻAbdu'l-Bahá. Chase was invited but could not go. They brought knowledge of the Baháʼí organizational system to the United States but it took time to develop. Chase became one of the leading organizers of the Chicago community, being elected to its first council, then one of its officers in 1899, and then in a reformulated "Board of Council." At the time it was thought the institution should be restricted to men, a position Chase accepted. Meanwhile the very nature of organization and community was threatened as Kheiralla became increasingly alienated from the Baháʼís in 1899 and 1900. Chase made a leading effort to find bridges with Kheiralla but it became impossible and then Chase was a leader of the effort to distinguish Kheiralla from the religion. Among those earliest Baháʼís who retained belief and membership in the unity with ʻAbdu'l-Bahá were Louisa A. Moore (known after marriage as Lua Getsinger), Howard MacNutt, Arthur P. Dodge and Helen S. Goodall. However at the turn of the century the American Baháʼí community still lacked a coherence nationally. This began to be addressed in 1900 and 1901 when ʻAbdu'l-Bahá sent ʻAbdu'l-Karím-i-Tihrání, Hájí Mírzá Hassan-i-Khurásání, Mírzá Asadu'lláh, and Mírzá Abu'l-Faḍl to the United States to more fully educate the Baháʼís on the teachings of the religion. Chase arranged for their housing and himself moved into the Baháʼí center with some of them while his wife was away. A third institution for Chicago was called for in May 1901, initially called the Chicago House of Justice and then the Chicago House of Spirituality. By 1902 and through 1909 Chase was serving as chair, and was noted for being a champion of the Baháʼí principle of consultation. Chase's background in writing served the initial stages of developing Baháʼí literature in America. A publishing company for Baháʼís was started in 1900 with  Chase among its members; and in the quickly shifting situations legally incorporated as the "Bahai Publishing Society" in 1902. It became the principal publisher of Baháʼí literature in the English-speaking world, and the standardization of the spelling of Middle Eastern Baháʼí names and terms. Chase was the principal editor of the publisher's literature in this early period and one of its principal financial supporters. In 1904 a letter of a pilgrim to Chase reported ʻAbdu'l-Bahá seeing the American community in a dream as lacking coherence and harmony and the community was characterized by scholar Gayle Morrison as "lacking a wide selection of sacred literature, the study of which forms the basis of individual spiritual responsibility, and without a functioning (national) administration… (and) remained individualistic, even idiosyncratic, in their communal relationships," (such as in race relations amidst a segregated America.) About that time the House of Spirituality began to send out newsletters to Baháʼí communities throughout the United States and Canada, informing them of Baháʼí Holy Days and the fast, which began their observance in North America. Scholar Marzieh Gail indicates her father, Ali Kuli Khan, asked individuals in 1906 if translations of letters to individuals could be copied and sent to Chase in particular so that they were then more widely circulated, (about 4 years before the first national periodical.)

Meanwhile Chase set out on further travels for the religion. In 1902 he went to Johnstown, NY, and Manitoba, Canada, as well as Louisville, KY, in 1903. In 1904 and 1906 Chase presented at the Monsalvat School at Greenacre and other conferences there.

In 1907 Chase went on Baháʼí pilgrimage though only for three days but still a pivotal experience for him and he wrote a book about it. ʻAbdu'l-Bahá, highly impressed by Chase's qualities, conferred on him the title thábit, "steadfast." A picture of Chase in Egypt among Baháʼís was published in 1908.

On returning home Chase presented again at Greenacre and Cincinnati, about his 1907 pilgrimage. In 1908 he joined an association to aid to the poor.