[Source: PubMed]

85. Int J Ment Health Nurs. 2019 Feb;28(1):152-161. doi: 10.1111/inm.12512. Epub 
2018 Jul 9.

Access and utilization of mental health services for immigrants and refugees: 
Perspectives of immigrant service providers.

Salami B(1), Salma J(1), Hegadoren K(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, Level 3, Edmonton Clinic Health Academy, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

Immigrant and refugee populations experience life stressors due to difficult 
migration journeys and challenges in leaving one country and adapting to 
another. These life stressors result in adverse mental health outcomes when 
coupled with a lack of adequate support-enhancing resources. One area of support 
is access to and use of mental health services to prevent and address mental 
health concerns. Immigrant service providers in Canada support the integration 
and overall well-being of newcomers. This study focuses on immigrant service 
providers' perceptions of access to and use of mental health services for 
immigrants and refugees in Alberta. A qualitative descriptive design was used to 
collect and analyse the perspectives of 53 immigrant service providers recruited 
from nine immigrant serving agencies in Alberta between November 2016 and 
January 2017. Data were collected using a combination of individual interviews 
and focus groups, followed by thematic data analysis to identify relevant 
themes. Barriers to access and use of mental health services include language 
barriers, cultural interpretations of mental health, stigma around mental 
illness, and fear of negative repercussions when living with a mental illness. 
Strategies to improve mental health service delivery include developing 
community-based services, attending to financial barriers, training immigrant 
service providers on mental health, enhancing collaboration across sectors in 
mental health service delivery, and advancing the role of interpreters and 
cultural brokers. Overall, immigrant service providers present a nuanced view of 
the complex and inter-related barriers immigrants and refugees experience and 
identify potential approaches to enhancing mental health service delivery.

© 2018 Australian College of Mental Health Nurses Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/inm.12512
PMID: 29984880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]