[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Louis de Clermont, seigneur de Bussy

he villagers descended on him, beating him up and if it were not for the intervention of a local count, he might have been killed. The count arranged for Bussy to be arrested under protective custody. Anjou secured his release so he could join up against with the main royal host.

Reign of Henri III

Assassination attempt
By 1575, many Catholic nobles were disillusioned with the crown, forming an alliance with the Protestant nobility as the Malcontents. With this movement entering war against the crown, the king's brother Alençon saw advantage in providing the movement a royal figurehead. As a result, the king conscious of his brothers manoeuvrers maintained him at court in conditions approximating house arrest. At this time Alençon became close to Bussy, who was keen to fight with the king's favourites. Alongside his position as a 'brave' of Alençon, Bussy further aggravated the king through his relationship with Marguerite de Valois, the king of Navarre's wife. Bussy wrote many stanzas of poetry for his love. The king was not pleased with Bussy for his association with Alençon, and arranged for Louis de Béranger du Guast to kill him. Navarre for his part had one of Marguerite's filles d'honneur dismissed for acting as an intermediary between the queen and Bussy. Marguerite meanwhile spoke lovingly of Bussy in her memoires. 
On Henri's instruction, Guast secured the services of 12 men for his attack, and one night as Bussy was departing from the Louvre they fell upon him, but Bussy was able to evade their attacks. Frustrated in his attempt, the king turned on Marguerite for her extra marital relationship. Bussy meanwhile vowed to have his vengeance on his attackers, but was talked down and persuaded that it was in his interest to leave court for the moment, many young nobles followed him in his departure.

Governor
Bussy fought in Périgord during the fifth war of religion. The troops under his command lacked discipline, and hatched a plan to attack a company of allied German reiters, murdering and robbing the men. Their plot was uncovered, and the troops under his command were reorganised with the leading offenders dismissed from service. As a term of the peace, negotiated favourably for his patron, an Estates General was to be called. To choose delegates for the body, local meetings would select each regions candidates. While in most regions the roles would be dominated by Liguer deputies who despised Alençon's peace and wanted to see it overturned, in Vitry-le-François, Bussy d'Amboise, ensured for his patron that Liguer deputies were expelled from the candidate list. A further term of the peace granted Alençon the appanage of the Duchy of Anjou, to assist in the governance of this extensive holding Alençon turned to Bussy. Bussy, having arrived in November 1576, governed in a chaotic fashion, failing to provide pay to the soldiers under his command in the province, and allowing them to engage in atrocities around Le Mans in early 1577. Bussy imposed harsh taxation largely on his own personal authority. Receiving many complaints from Protestants and Catholics alike about Bussy's governance, Henri deputised Renaud de Beaune to investigate proceedings in the province. Sensing the mood at court, Bussy took the excuse to temporarily depart from the province, and Henri's representatives could do little to bring justice in the appanage.

War of the favourites
Returning to court, alongside his patron in January 1578 Bussy quickly got involved in almost daily scuffles and combats with the king's men. Several days after quarreling with Philibert de Gramont during a ball at the Louvre, Bussy marched on him with 300 supporters, travelling to the porte Saint-Antoine where he challenged Gramont, and the other favourites of the king to duel it out to the death. The king intervened, narrowly averting a pitched battle between the two sides, Gramont was frustrated by this intervention and attempted to attack Bussy in his lodgings. This too came to nought and both men were temporarily arrested, the king so vexed at these spats that he retired from public view for several days. Released in February, Caylus, Saint-Mégrin, Saint-Luc and François d'O ambushed Bussy at Saint-Antoine, but he was able to slip their grasp, angrily demanding justice from the king in response.