[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rintatolimod

imod has received various designations, including "orphan drug product" and "emergency compassionate cost recovery sales authorization", both from the FDA, and "promising" clinical outcome recognition based on the evaluation of certain summary clinical reports (AHRQ, Agency Health Research Quality).

According to the US National Academy of Sciences Institute of Medicine, "Chronic fatigue syndrome is a disease characterized by profound fatigue, cognitive dysfunction, sleep abnormalities, autonomic manifestations, pain, and other symptoms that are made worse by exertion of any sort. CFS can severely impair patients' ability to conduct their normal lives." In October 2007, Hemispherx BioPharma submitted their first new drug application (NDA)  to the FDA for rintatolimod to treat CFS. In December 2007, the agency deemed the application incomplete, citing deficiencies including lack of dose ranging, statistical analysis plans inconsistent with protocols, database discrepancies, and lack of clinical pharmacology and carcinogenicity data. In early 2009, Hemispherx again submitted rintatolimod for FDA approval for CFS treatment. The FDA scheduled their decision for May 25th of that year and twice postponed. The company received a Complete Response Letter from the agency on rintatolimod's NDA in December 2009, requesting further data.

In 2007, and again during the 2009 swine flu pandemic, Carter said that rintatolimod could also be used as an H1N1 flu vaccine booster, citing in vitro studies with Ampligen and neuraminidase inhibitors oseltamivir and zanamivir (brand names Tamiflu and Relenza).

Hemispherx Biopharma continues to work with the FDA on rintatolimod approval for CFS treatment. On December 20, 2012, an FDA Advisory Committee voted in favor of rintatolimod's safety for commercial use (vote 8 to 5), but not in favor of its efficacy (4 to 9). The Complete Response Letter asked for more study data prior to rintatolimod approval.
On January 12, 2015, the company released new in vitro study findings showing that low natural killer cell function associates with greater CFS disease symptom severity, and that rintatolimod treatment increases average NK cell activity over 100%. The new study report, "Low Natural Killer (NK) Activity Observed Across the Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) Disease Spectrum," has been submitted as a scientific paper for peer review and publication. In addition to the new study findings, the paper summarizes six supportive publications of results with more than 150 CFS patients, correlating increased debility of CFS and low NK cell activity. Clinical testing is currently under way to determine whether NK cell activity augmentation by rintatolimod in vivo associates with lessened CFS disease severity and increased physical endurance and performance measures.

Status around the world as of 2022

Although Ampligen was initially cleared for use in Canada in 1997, and obtained orphan drug status for treatment of CFS in the European Union in 2000, it is approved for use only in Argentina. Its status in Canada, per later information, is as a Special Access Program, via the My Tomorrows program set up in Amsterdam. It is so far without FDA approval, and is classed as experimental in the United States.

It was approved for use in Argentina and will soon be ready for commercial sales. Interest rise in that country after increases in the number of ME/CFS cases after its SARS epidemic in 2002–2003, and it anticipates a similar rise in ME/CFS cases from SARS-CoV-2.

In 2007, Hemispherx filed a new drug application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to market and sell rintatolimod for the treatment of CFS, but this was rejected in December 2009, because the FDA concluded that the two randomized controlled trials "did not provide credible evidence of efficacy" and "because of clinical, statistical, clinical pharmacology, nonclinical, product quality, and facilities inspection deficiencies." The FDA requested Hemispherx conduct at least one additional controlled trial to demonstrate efficacy in treating CFS.

In August 2012, Hemispherx submitted further analyses of the original clinical trial data to FDA, but did not submit additional trials for review. Four months later, a committee of the FDA voted 8–5 against approval for rintatolimod, again citing insufficient data.

Work continues on the drug, and there has been no approval by the US FDA, as of May 2021. There is open-label use in the US, under Dr. Dan Peterson in Nevada.

As of 2022, rintatolimod was approved in Argentina and is ready to "Launch pending FDA export authorization"

Controversy
In 1998 and 2000, Hemispherx received notices of violation from the FDA for promoting rintatolimod as safe and effective before FDA approval, in violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.