[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# New Zealand nuclear-free zone

prehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty; the enactment of a Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty; and the universal implementation of nuclear non-proliferation instruments such as the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism and United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540.

John Key promised in 2006, just after being elected leader of the National Party, that "the nuclear-free legislation will remain intact" for as long as he is the leader of the National Party.

In November 2016,  became the first US warship to call in New Zealand in 33 years.

In 2017, New Zealand signed the United Nations Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The treaty aims to ban nuclear weapons amid tensions over North Korea's nuclear and missile tests. Foreign Affairs Minister Gerry Brownlee said the treaty is "consistent with New Zealand's long-standing commitment to international nuclear disarmament efforts".

Also in 2017, a New Zealand-led proposal to help identify North Korean ships in Pacific waters was accepted by leaders at the Pacific Islands Forum. Gerry Brownlee says he is prepared to use whatever intelligence capacity necessary to help identify and stop North Korean nuclear ships in the Pacific.

In 2018, New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Ardern reinstated the ministerial portfolio of Minister for Disarmament and Arms Control. Ardern stated that it is important that the Government acknowledges New Zealand's long-held anti-nuclear stance. "The pursuit of disarmament is as vital today as it was when Norman Kirk and David Lange proclaimed New Zealand's opposition to nuclear weapons and nuclear testing in the Pacific," she said.

See also

 ANZUS - New Zealand bans nuclear material
 Contents of the United States diplomatic cables leak (New Zealand)#Nuclear policy
 France and weapons of mass destruction
 Foreign policy of the Ronald Reagan administration - New Zealand
 Foreign relations of New Zealand
 Greenpeace Aotearoa New Zealand
 List of protests in New Zealand
 Nagasaki and Hiroshima
 Operation Grapple
 Barry Mitcalfe
 Japan's Three Non-Nuclear Principles, a similar resolution.

References

Bibliography

Legal Challenges to Nuclear Weapons from Aotearoa/New Zealand, by Kate Dewes
Stephen Kos, 1984, Interim Relief in the International Court: New Zealand and the Nuclear Test Cases, Victoria University Wellington Law Review.

External links
 Anti Nuclear Oxford debate by former New Zealand PM David Lange
 Bikini Atoll Atomic test zone
 British Nuclear Test Veterans Association
 Disarmament and Security Centre, New Zealand Peace Foundation
 France's Nuclear Weapons Program at the Atomic Forum
 Herbs 'French Letter' music video on YouTube
 Keeping New Zealand Nuclear Free
 Mururoa protest, Time 1973
 Mururoa Veterans
Nuclear power generation in New Zealand : report of the Royal Commission of Inquiry.
 Nuclear Free New Zealand (NZHistory)
 Pictures of victims of US nuclear testing in the Marshall Islands.
 Radio Nizkor International Nuclear conference
 Nuclear-free future award

Nuclear-weapon-free zones
Nuclear technology in New Zealand
Environmental law in New Zealand