[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# High-speed rail in Canada

Several plans have been proposed for high-speed rail in Canada, the only G7 country that does not have any high-speed rail. In the press and popular discussion, there have been two routes frequently proposed as suitable for a high-speed rail corridor: Edmonton to Calgary via Red Deer and Windsor to Quebec City via London, Kitchener-Waterloo, Toronto, Ottawa and Montreal.

Other proposed routes include international high-speed rail link between Montreal and Boston or New York City discussed by regional leaders, though little progress has been made; On April 10, 2008, an advocacy group, High Speed Rail Canada, was formed to promote and educate Canadians on the benefits of high-speed rail in Canada.

Early high-speed rail in Canada
CN Rail created some early hopes with the UAC TurboTrain, in its Toronto–Montreal route during the 1960s. The TurboTrain was a true HST, achieving speeds as high as  in regular service. The Turbo went  in a speed run April 26, 1976 and may have attained even higher speeds in test runs in 1968–69.

CN's, and later Via Rail's, TurboTrain service was marred with lengthy interruptions to address design problems and having to cope with poor track quality (accounted for by dual passenger-freight use). As such, the trains were operated at . The TurboTrain featured the latest technology advances such as passive coach tilting, Talgo attachment for rigid coach articulation and gas turbine power. The units were plagued by technical and reliability issues and were ultimately retired by 1982.

Beginning in the 1970s, a consortium of several companies started to study Bombardier Transportation's LRC, which was a more conventional approach to high-speed rail, in having separate cars and locomotives, rather than being an articulated train. Pulled by heavy conventional-technology diesel-electric locomotives designed for  normal operating speed and inspired by the British InterCity 125, it entered full-scale service in 1981 for Via Rail, linking cities in the Quebec City–Windsor Corridor, but at speeds never exceeding the  limit mandated by line signalling. It was the world's first active tilting train in commercial service.

Calgary–Edmonton 

The Calgary–Edmonton corridor is about  long and takes about three hours to traverse by car via the Queen Elizabeth II Highway.

2004 Van Horne Institute study 
A 2011 update to a 2004 study by the Van Horne Institute concluded that "high-speed rail would bring significant benefits to the Calgary–Edmonton corridor and Alberta as a whole". The report also stated that the project would "generate between $3.7 and $6.1 billion in quantifiable benefits". The study considered three options:
 Upgrade of an existing Canadian Pacific freight route to allow trains up to  using Bombardier's JetTrain, costing approximately $2.5 billion.
 A new dedicated passenger route, known as the "Green Field" route, also using the JetTrain, and costing approximately $3.7 billion.
 An electrified version of the Green Field route, using TGV-style trains running at , costing approximately $5 billion.

The report also found that there was little incremental benefit in running at  rather than , and therefore recommended the first option.

On September 22, 2006, the government of Alberta announced that it was deploying video cameras along a stretch of the Queen Elizabeth Highway to measure the number of cars that travel between the two cities.

The Calgary Herald announced on April 18, 2007, that the provincial government had purchased land in downtown Calgary for a possible station or terminal. On April 7, 2011, Premier Ed Stelmach said that the land being purchased for the new location of the Royal Alberta Museum could be used as the Edmonton terminal.

Government plans 
In 2011, Alberta Premier Alison Redford said that the high-speed rail was a priority for her, saying "such an initiative could unite the province and send a message to Canada and the world about Alberta's progress." However, during the 2012 Alberta provincial election campaign, none of the four main party leaders said that they deny the need for one, but said that it was a "maybe".

The Standing Committee on Alberta's economic future studied the feasibility of high-speed rail between Calgary and Edmonton in 2014. The committee also held hearings on the subject in early 2014 in Calgary, Red Deer and Edmonton. The report released in May 2014 stated that although Alberta was not ready for high-speed rail, the government should start planning for it by acquiring land along a transportation corridor.