[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ethiopian–Somali conflict

The Ethiopian–Somali conflict is a territorial and political dispute between the countries of Ethiopia and Somalia. Originating in the 1300's, the conflicts most recent iteration began in the late 1940s, when the Somali inhabited Ogaden region was handed back over to Ethiopia by the British. In the years following, tensions culminated in numerous insurgencies and several wars. However, because of the Somali Civil War and the lack of a functioning central government since the collapse of the Democratic Republic of Somalia in 1991, Ethiopia has the upper hand militarily and economically.

Background 
The earliest form of Ethiopian-Somali conflict dates back to the 14th century.

In the 14th and 15th century the rulers of the Christian Ethiopian highlands had become increasingly more interested in proselytizing the overwhelmingly Muslim inhabited land of what is presently northern Somalia and eastern Ethiopia, in large part to achieve sea access. Abyssinian military expeditions were dispatched south-eastward from the highlands over the decades and were a significant unifying force among the Somali and other Muslim nationalities in the region.

Around the same period, the Egyptian Mamluk Sultan an-Nasir Muhammad began destroying Coptic churches. Amda Seyon I, Emperor of Ethiopia, subsequently sent a mission to Cairo in 1321-2 threatening to retaliate against the Muslims in his kingdom and divert the course of the Nile if the sultan did not end his persecution of Christians. As a result of the dispute, Haqq ad-Din I of the Ifat Sultanate seized and imprisoned the delegates sent by the Emperor as they were returning from Cairo. Amda Seyon responded by invading Ifat, which contained Somali populations, and killing many of Ifat's soldiers. Part of the army then followed him and destroyed it's capital, with Amda Seyon plundering it's wealth in the form of gold, silver, bronze, lead, and clothing. Amda Seyon continued his reprisals throughout all of his Muslim provinces, taking livestock, killing many inhabitants, destroying towns, and taking prisoners, who were later assimilated. This would lead to long-term hostilities and animosity between the two states, resulting in multiple Ifat rebellions against Ethiopian hegemony. The first mention of the ethnonym "Somali" dates to the reign of Emperor Yeshaq I who had one of his court officials compose a hymn celebrating a military victory over the Sultan of Ifat's eponymous troops.

1500's 
According to Professor Richard Greenfields, "In the 16th century the number and size of Abyssinian raiding parties, and consequent plunder and destruction, was on the increase. Eventually, the harassed Somali people retaliated." In 1529, Imam Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi (Ahmad Gurey or Gragn) led the Conquest of Abyssinia (Futuh al-Habash), which brought three-quarters of the Christian polity under the power of the Muslim Adal Sultanate. Al-Ghazi's forces and their Ottoman allies came close to extinguishing the ancient Ethiopian kingdom. However, the Ethiopians managed to secure the assistance of Cristóvão da Gama's Portuguese troops and maintain their domain's autonomy. The conflict between polities reached a stalemate, as each had exhausted their resources and manpower. This resulted in the contraction of both powers and changed regional dynamics for centuries to come. Many historians trace the origins of modern hostility between Somalia and Ethiopia to this war. Some scholars also argue that this conflict proved, through their use on both sides, the value of firearms such as the matchlock musket, cannons and the arquebus over traditional weapons.

1800's 
In the 19th century, the Ethiopian King Menelik II invaded the Somali-inhabited The Huwan region, which was gradually conquered in spite of pressure from local Huwan chiefs and Diiriye Guure and his Emir of the Dervish State. Diiriye Guure's polity eventually collapsed a quarter of a century later in 1920, following heavy British aerial bombardment.

Before the emergence of the anti-colonial Dervish movement in the 20th century, Somalis had limited access to firearms. When European colonial powers began to exert influence in the Horn of Africa, the Brussels Conference Act of 1890 imposed an arms embargo on the Somali population. During the same period Ethiopian Emperor Menelik, who was legally armed with rifles by European powers through the port cities of Djibouti and Massawa, began expanding into Somali inhabited territories. The disparity in numbers and firepower left Somalis defenceless to attack. In 1893, the then Earl of Rosebery remarked that the British government, "cannot with justice withhold from the Somali tribes under our protection such limited supply of arms as may suffice to enable them to protect themselves from predatory bands of Abyssinian's."