[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Culture of Hamilton, Ontario

et, is known as the Textile District and is Hamilton's "Decor Destination." It is the largest Fabric and Textile District in Canada. It also hosts and annual Ottawa Street Streetfest, a shopping extravaganza that includes shopping deals, entertainment, foods, crafts, all part of outdoor street sale.

Locke Street, has festivals held throughout the year. The first noteworthy one is called Spring Blooms on Locke. It's an annual festival that marks the end of winter and is also a fund raiser for sick children. Then there is the one simply called The Locke Street Festival where each September the street is closed off for live entertainment, street vendors and food. There is also the Christmas Open House where they welcome the holidays with late opening, food, drink and carollers each November.

Every summer in August the Cactus Festival is held in Dundas.

The Great Lakes Expo7 is a 3-day annual springtime festival held at Bayfront Park and Pier 4 Park. The purpose of the festival is to improve people's knowledge of how everyone can improve and protect the fresh water within the Great Lakes. Also included, an Adventure Zone, Enviro Zone, Kid's Zone, Full size Midway, Live Music, Food vendors, Arts & Crafts and more. In 2007 the festival will be held the last weekend of May.

The Royal Botanical Gardens plays host to a number of festivals throughout the year. Some of these include the Tulip Celebration, Mother's Day Brunch, Lilac Celebration, Iris Festival, Rose Celebration and Music @ THE GARDENS.

Hamilton also hosts a number of free Concerts in the city, most of which are held in the summer months. Concerts are located at Gore Park, Whitehern Museum, International Village, Sam Lawrence Park, Lloyd D. Jackson Square (Plaze level, rooftop gardens) and the Hamilton Farmer's Market.

Core Entertainment

Hamilton also hosts several key venues operated by Core Entertainment. Core Entertainment is the engine that drives over 400 events to FirstOntario Centre, FirstOntario Concert Hall (both the Great Hall and The Studio) and Molson Canadian Studio. Core Entertainment is powered by Comcast Spectacor. Among these facilities is Hamilton's largest venue, FirstOntario Centre (formerly Copps Coliseum), a 17,500-seat enclosed arena that has served as the home for the Hamilton Bulldogs (OHL) ice hockey club since 2015 and routinely features a variety of sport, commercial and concert events throughout the year.  Notable artists who have performed at FirstOntario Centre include U2, Tool, System of a Down, Metallica, Elton John, Rod Stewart and Aerosmith. Further events can be found just down the road at FirstOntario Concert Hall, a 2,193 seat performing arts theatre located less than a two-minute walk from FirstOntario Centre. FirstOntario Concert Hall is the home of the Hamilton Philharmonic Orchestra and boasts one of the leading architectural designs for acoustics in Canada.  Notable performances include the annual festive production of 'The Nutcracker' and a number of internationally recognized entertainers such as Tom Jones, Sarah McLachlan, Hall & Oates and Billy Connolly.

The Hamilton Convention Centre is also a major downtown event facility, and is connected to FirstOntario Concert hall, but is a separate operation run by Carmen's Group

References

External links
 Core Entertainment (www.CoreEntertainment.ca)
 Hamilton's Independent Music Scene
 Hamilton Mardis Gras Festival