[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Alliances (The Wire)

he park to look for a body as a cadet and being warned to only take an interest in bodies matching their description or they would spend all day finding various other bodies. When they return to the office empty-handed, Bunk convinces Freamon to turn his attention back to investigating real murders.

At the office, Detectives Ed Norris, Vernon Holley, Greggs, and Massey watch Gray talk about the witness case on television. Greggs is later called in to meet with Sergeant Jay Landsman. Landsman tells her that Norris is back on the Braddock witness case. Rawls plans to claim that Norris and Greggs were always working the case together. Greggs is dismayed that she is being humiliated a second time. Landsman tells Greggs that she must be more ready to play the political side of the spectrum now that she is in the high-profile Homicide unit. Finally, Landsman insists that Greggs must attend a press conference about the investigation.

Crutchfield and Holley catch the case of the woman murdered in Andre's store. When they interview Andre, he is quick to identify Omar.

Bubbles
Bubbles spots Sherrod working for a drug dealing crew and chastises him for truancy. Sherrod's customer takes exception to Bubbles's interruption and attacks him for his money. When Sherrod returns to their squat that night Bubbles tells him that he must leave in the morning unless he attends school the next day.

Production

Title reference
The title refers to the alliance that Marlo enters into with Proposition Joe. It also refers to the alliances formed by Carcetti in the political world: with Rawls, Valchek and Watkins. It also references the breaking of Watkins' alliance with Royce because of the strength of his support for Marla Daniels, and perhaps most obviously, to the offer made by Chris and Snoop to Michael.

Epigraph

Partlow makes this statement when trying to convince Michael Lee to join the Stanfield drug dealing organization. It is counterpointed by Wee-Bey's remarks about the heyday of the Barksdale organization.

Credits

Starring cast
Although credited, Dominic West, Chad L. Coleman, J. D. Williams and Michael K. Williams do not appear in this episode.

Guest stars

 Jermaine Crawford as Duquan "Dukie" Weems
 Maestro Harrell as Randy Wagstaff
Julito McCullum as Namond Brice
 Tristan Wilds as Michael Lee
 Gbenga Akinnagbe as Chris Partlow
 Robert F. Chew as Proposition Joe
 Anwan Glover as Slim Charles
 Hassan Johnson as Roland "Wee-Bey" Brice
 Dan DeLuca as Dr. David Parenti
 Tootsie Duvall as Assistant Principal Marcia Donnelly
Dravon James as Mrs. Grace Sampson
Christopher Mann as Councilman Anthony Gray
Cleo Reginald Pizana as Chief of Staff Coleman Parker
Frederick Strother as State Delegate Odell Watkins
 Boris McGiver as Lieutenant Charles Marimow
 Ed Norris as Detective Ed Norris
 Delaney Williams as Sergeant Jay Landsman
Sandi McCree as De'Londa Brice
Alfonso Christian Lover as Old Face Andre
 Felicia Pearson as Snoop
Al Brown as Major Stan Valchek
 Brandy Burre as Theresa D'Agostino
 Tyreeka Freamon as School Secretary
 Brian Anthony Wilson as Detective Vernon Holley
Armando Cadogan, Jr. as Bubbles' tormentor
Nathan Corbett as Donut
 Thuliso Dingwall as Kenard
Taylor King as Zenobia Dawson
Rashad Orange as Sherrod

Uncredited appearances

 Benjamin Busch as Officer Anthony Colicchio
 Rick Otto as Detective Kenneth Dozerman
 Gregory L. Williams as Detective Michael Crutchfield
 Kwame Patterson as Monk Metcalf
 Richard Hildebird as Principal Claudell Withers
 Destiny Jackson-Evans as Crystal Judkins
 Jeffrey Lorenzo as Karim Williams
 Rakiya Orange as Charlene Young
 Jason Wharton as Albert Stokes
 Corbin Smith as Monell
 David J. Smolar as Newspaper Reporter
 Unknown as Paul
 Unknown as Tiff
 Unknown as Lieutenant Hoskins
 Unknown as Detective Mackey
 Unknown as Flex Squad Detective

First appearances
 Zenobia Dawson: eighth grade student in Prez's math class who comes from a poor background and is difficult to control.

References

External links
"Alliances"  at HBO.com

The Wire (season 4) episodes
2006 American television episodes