[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Aga Khan Agency for Microfinance

Aga Khan Agency for Microfinance (AKAM) is a microfinancing agency of the Aga Khan Development Network.

History 
AKAM was formally inaugurated in February 2005 by Aga Khan IV and the former president of the World Bank, James Wolfensohn. The not-for-profit agency was created under Swiss law and is based in Geneva, Switzerland. It is governed by an independent board of directors chaired by the Aga Khan. AKAM brings together the financial services programming of the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) at the lower end of the ladder, unifying and consolidating their objectives and principles of development under one institutional umbrella.

The agency belongs to AKDN's social development branch, and as such, AKAM operates in both rural and urban areas and seeks to alleviate poverty by helping to improve incomes and quality of life through various programs, initiatives, and partnerships. Today, AKAM operates in developing countries including Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Egypt, Kenya, the Kyrgyz Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Mozambique, Pakistan, Syria, Tajikistan, and Tanzania  and provides various microfinance opportunities whose "versatility allows it to be adapted to the needs and circumstances of the poor in urban and rural environments."

At the end of 2010, it had 156 branches in South Asia, Central Asia, the Middle East, West Africa, and East Africa, with 3,120 employees. Since its establishment in 2005, AKAM has assumed responsibility for microfinance programs that were administered by other agencies within AKDN for more than 25 years. At the end of June 2010, the agency managed a loan portfolio of over US$147.7 million in outstanding micro, small, and medium-sized loans to over 287,240 beneficiaries in 13 countries.

Objectives and principles
The underlying objectives of the agency are to "alleviate economic and social exclusion, diminish the vulnerability of poor populations, and reduce poverty" so as to make the beneficiaries "self-reliant and eventually gain the skills needed to graduate to the mainstream financial markets." To articulate its approach, AKAM has formulated a series of key principles.  These are:

 Providing a broad range of microfinance services
 Aiming to balance costs with revenue but also generate a modest surplus to contribute to the expansion of services and geographic coverage
 operating alongside other AKDN agencies to draw on their experience
 Utilizing institutional approaches and instruments that facilitate access and address the diversity of contexts and cultures
 Consolidating all practices to ensure that procedures are transparent, efficient, and appropriately documented with trained staff
 Focusing on positive growth as required by context and circumstance
 Drawing on partnerships outside the network, such as governments, international agencies, and professional organizations, to expand the general frame of reference and maximize success

Partners
AKAM throughout the years has received support from numerous institutions all over the world. Support in this case is defined as the provision of funding and/or technical assistance. The following is a list of the international institutions and organizations which as of 2011 have supported AKAM: 
 Agence Francaise de Dévéloppement
 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
 BlueOrchard
 Canadian International Development Agency
 DEG
 European Investment Bank
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
 Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden (FMO)
 International Finance Corporation
 Japanese International Cooperation Agency
 Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW)
 MicroFinanza Rating
 Microfinance Investment Support Facility for Afghanistan
 Okiocredit
 PlaNet Finance Group
 Triple Jump
 The World Bank Group
 United States Department of Agriculture
 United States Agency for International Development

Institutions worldwide

Afghanistan
The First MicroFinance Bank of Afghanistan was founded in 2003 and became one of the first banks to fall under Afghanistan's legal framework on microfinance. FMFB-A opened its first branch in Kabul in May 2004, with KfW Banking Group and the International Finance Corporation as shareholders. The microfinance market was estimated at over 303,000 clients at the end of 2009, which is still only 18 percent of the two million households living below the poverty line in the country. FMFB-A is currently the largest microfinance institution in Afghanistan in terms of outstanding portfolio size, with US$45.7 million in 2010 in microfinance loans compared to US$39.8 million in 2009. Of the total portfolio, 31 percent of the client base is rural. The institution's rural portfolio represents 13,490 loans disbursed, valued at US$22 million. FMFB-A's has a network of 45 branches, 17 of which are in rural areas, covering 14 provinces.