[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexander Bullock

nt in the oversight of the state's finances during the conflict. He supported labor reforms, in particular legislation limiting the length of the workday, although such legislation would not be enacted in the state until 1874, when a ten-hour workday was mandated (albeit with significant loopholes).

Governor of Massachusetts
Bullock received the Republican Party nomination for governor in 1865 after John A. Andrew decided not to stand for reelection.  Bullock defeated Civil War General Darius Couch in the general election, and served three consecutive one-year terms.  Bullock was a member of an informal group of Republicans known as the "Bird Club" (for its organizer, paper magnate Francis W. Bird), which effectively controlled the state Republican Party organization and dominated the state's elected offices into the 1870s. During his tenure he improved the state's finances, reducing war-related debts. Bullock was an outspoken advocate of women's suffrage, although the more conservative legislature never enacted enabling legislation. He also favored state support for railroads, signing bills providing loans totalling $6 million to the Troy and Greenfield Railroad for the construction of the Hoosac Tunnel in each of his terms. He was also responsible for hiring Benjamin Latrobe, Jr. to oversee the work on that troubled project.

One of the more contentious issues during Bullock's tenure was the state's alcohol prohibition law, which had been enacted in the 1850s, and which politically divided the otherwise dominant Republicans.  Easing of either the law's strict rules or their enforcement was regularly debated in the legislature.  Bullock, in contrast to the laissez-faire approach of Andrew before him, enforced the prohibition law more strictly than any other governor of the period.  This policy was probably responsible for the declining margins of victory in his three elections. In 1868, legislative proponents of relaxed rules secured passage of a law abolishing the state police, who were tasked with the law's enforcement.  Bullock vetoed this bill, pointing out that the state police performed other vital functions.  At the same time, a law replacing abolition with a licensing scheme was passed; Bullock allowed this bill to become law without his signature.  In 1869, a more conservative legislature restored the previous prohibition statute.

Bullock declined to run for reelection in 1868, promoting Henry L. Dawes as his successor.  Opposing Dawes for the Republican nomination was George F. Loring, a protégé of Benjamin Franklin Butler.  Bullock's mentor Francis Bird worked behind the scenes to secure the nomination instead for William Claflin, who went on to win the election.

Later years
After leaving office, Bullock returned to the insurance business, in which he remained until the end of his life.  He refused repeated offers to stand for the United States Congress, and in 1879 turned down an offer by President Rutherford B. Hayes of the ambassadorship to the United Kingdom. In early January 1882, he was elected president of the State Mutual Life Assurance Company, but died quite suddenly in Worcester on January 17, 1882. He was buried in Worcester's Rural Cemetery.

See also

 83rd Massachusetts General Court (1862)
 84th Massachusetts General Court (1863)
 85th Massachusetts General Court (1864)
 86th Massachusetts General Court (1865)

Notes

References

External links

Governors of Massachusetts
Amherst College alumni
Harvard Law School alumni
Massachusetts Whigs
19th-century American politicians
Massachusetts lawyers
Mayors of Worcester, Massachusetts
Massachusetts state senators
Speakers of the Massachusetts House of Representatives
Republican Party members of the Massachusetts House of Representatives
1816 births
1882 deaths
People from Royalston, Massachusetts
Burials at Rural Cemetery (Worcester, Massachusetts)
Republican Party governors of Massachusetts
Members of the American Antiquarian Society
Americana