[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Flashman and the Tiger

d. Watson recognises him, but is "corrected" by Holmes, who produces an entirely incorrect analysis of who the "tramp" is.

Characters

The Road to Charing Cross

Fictional characters
Flashman - The hero or anti-hero.
Caprice
Princess Kralta
Rupert Willem von Starnberg
Hutton, of the Foreign Office.

Historical characters
Henri Blowitz - Bohemian journalist.  Flashman describes him as "a five-foot butterball with a beaming baby face behind a mighty moustache, innocent blue eyes, bald head, and frightful whiskers a foot long".
Ulysses S. Grant - Former U.S. President, he was visiting Europe at the time of the story.
Patrice MacMahon - President of the French Third Republic.  Flashman is with Grant when he meets with him.
Otto von Bismarck - German statesman.  Flashman has enough prior experience of him that he avoids another encounter, but still accidentally meets him in Berlin.
Pyotr Andreyevich Shuvalov - Russian statesman.  He is the source of most of Blowitz's information about the treaty, through Caprice, who seduces him.
Georges Nagelmackers - Head of the Orient Express line.
Franz Joseph I of Austria - Emperor of Austria.  Flashman saves him from assassination.
Elisabeth of Bavaria - Empress consort of Austria.  Flashman dances with her at a ball.
Johann Strauss II - Conducts the band while Flashman and Empress Elisabeth dance.
Lord Granville - The British Foreign Secretary.
Garnet Wolseley - The British field marshal.
Charles George Gordon - The British major-general.

The Subtleties of Baccarat

Fictional characters
Flashman
Elspeth - His adoring and possibly unfaithful wife.

Historical characters
Prince of Wales - Future King Edward VII.  Flashman appears to know him well and claims to have shared his lovers, Lillie Langtry and Daisy Brooke.  He also suspects Elspeth of having "been at grips in a potting-shed at Windsor in '59" with him.
William Gordon-Cumming - Central figure in the scandal. His similarities with Flashman are not lost on the latter, who eyes him with some jealousy as a younger version (and more authentic military hero) of himself.
Lord Coleridge - Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, and judge at the trial.
Charles Russell - British statesman who represents the defendants at the trial.
H. H. Asquith - Future Prime Minister who represents the defendants at the trial.

Flashman and the Tiger

Fictional characters
Flashman
Elspeth
Tiger Jack Moran - Flashman meets him after the Battle of Isandlwana on the way to Rorke's Drift, and describes him as "a killing gentleman."
Selina Flashman - She is Flashman's nineteen-year-old granddaughter. With uncharacteristic sentimentality Flashman is prepared to spend much of his fortune in preserving "Selly's" innocence from the licentious Moran. This proves to be wasted effort when he discovers that she has become one of the Prince of Wales' mistresses.
Sherlock Holmes
Doctor Watson

Historical characters
Henry Pulleine - Brevet lieutenant colonel at the Battle of Isandlwana.
Anthony Durnford - Lieutenant colonel at the Battle of Isandlwana.
John Chard - British lieutenant of the Royal Engineers and commanding officer at Rorke's Drift.
Lord Chelmsford - A British general.
Gonville Bromhead - British lieutenant at Rorke's Drift.
Oscar Wilde - A playwright.
Edward VII
George Smith - British army chaplain

References

1999 British novels
Sherlock Holmes pastiches
Flashman novels
HarperCollins books
Novels set in the 1870s
Novels set in the 1880s
Novels set in the 1890s
Cultural depictions of Empress Elisabeth of Austria
Cultural depictions of Franz Joseph I of Austria
Cultural depictions of Edward VII
Cultural depictions of Ulysses S. Grant
Cultural depictions of Otto von Bismarck
Cultural depictions of Oscar Wilde
Baccarat