[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 2007 New Year Honours

al. For services to the NHS.
Thomas Herbert Drake, Interim Chief Executive, Scottish Qualifications Authority. For services to Education.
Dr. Richard Dyer, lately Director, Babraham Institute, Cambridge. For services to Biology.
Miss Susan Margaret Eades, Head, Tuberculosis Division, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
Toni Christine, Mrs. Eastwood, Training and Business Development Manager, Everywoman. For services to Equal Opportunities.
Professor Kimmy Ai Ngor Eldridge, Professor and Deputy Head, Department of Health and Human Sciences, University of Essex. For services to Healthcare.
Michael Henry Ellis, lately Fund Commissioner, Fund Distribution Ltd. For services to the Financial Services Industry.
Huw Evans, lately Headteacher, Watchfield Primary School, Oxfordshire. For services to Education.
Dr. Azhar Farooqi, General Medical Practitioner, East Leicester Medical Practice. For services to Healthcare. 
David Leonard Finnis, lately National Trust Manager, Marsden Moor Estate and Hardcastle Crags. For services to the communities of Marsden and Colne Valley.
Donal Flanagan, Chief Executive, Council for Catholic Maintained Schools. For services to Education in Northern Ireland.
Graham Fortune, Grade B1, Ministry of Defence.
Ms Sue Foster, Assistant Director, Regeneration and Planning, London Borough of Hackney. For services to Planning.
Joseph Sands Furphy, Member, Council for Nature Conservation and the Countryside. For services to Conservation in Northern Ireland.
Rosemary Isabella, Mrs. Peters-Gallagher, Board Member, Invest Northern Ireland. For services to Business and to the community in Northern Ireland. 
Dr. Ashour Omar Gebreel, Special Co-ordinator, Complex Emergencies, World Health Organisation. For services to Healthcare Overseas.
Dr. Michael Gibson, Head of Support for Learning Division, Education Department, Scottish Executive. 
James Harry Gill, Chief Executive, Liverpool Vision. For services to Regeneration.
Professor William John Gillespie, T.D., lately Foundation Dean, Hull York Medical School. For services to Medicine.
Dr. Garth Glentworth, Senior Governance Adviser. For public service overseas.
Michael Redvers Golding, Yachtsman. For services to Sport.
William Samuel Graham, Head of Education, Farming and Countryside Education. For services to Education and to Farming.
Ms Sally Greene (Mrs. Bourne), Owner and Director, Old Vic Productions plc. For services to Drama.
Alun Griffiths. For services to the Construction Industry and to the community in Wales.
Professor Richard Grimes. For services to Pro Bono Legal Services.
Garth Michael Guthrie. For services to Charity.
The Reverend Thomas Norman Hamilton, Minister, Ballysillan Presbyterian Church, North Belfast. For services to Community Relations in Northern Ireland. 
Dr. Margaret Ann Harper, Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Royal Group of Hospitals, Belfast and lately Senior Lecturer, Queen's University, Belfast. For services to Medicine.
David John Heaton, Principal, Queen Elizabeth Sixth Form College, Darlington. For services to Further Education.
Dr. Raymond John Heitzman. For services to Food Safety.
Kevin Joseph Helferty. For public service. Margaret, Mrs. Hesketh. For services to the victims of domestic violence in Northern Ireland.
Dr. David Gerald Hessayon. For services to Gardening and to Charity.
Patricia Ann, Mrs. Heywood, lately Worldwide President, Mothers' Union. For charitable services. 
Richard Quintin Hoare, D.L. For charitable services through the Bulldog Trust.
John Holland, Director of Operations, RAPID UK. For services to International Rescue.
Allan St. John Holt, J.P. For services to Health Safety.
Norman Jeffery, Area Director, Wiltshire, Her Majesty's Courts Service.
Hugh Eric Allan Johnson, Author and Journalist. For services to Wine Making and to Horticulture.
Patricia Ann, Mrs. Johnson, lately Headteacher, Hopwood Primary School, Rochdale. For services to Education.
Hywel Pritchard Jones, Chief Executive, Mudiad Ysgolion Meithrin. For services to Education and to the Welsh Language.
Teresa Grace, Mrs. Jones, J.P., Grade B1, Ministry of Defence.
Ms Kathryn Kane, Constable, Merseyside Police. For services to the Police.
Paul Stephen Keleghan. For public service.
John Michael Kelly, Executive Chair, Gala Group. For services to the Gambling Industry.
Councillor Mohammed Khan, Member, Blackburn with Darwen Metropolitan Borough Council. For services to Local Government.
Ms Vanessa Jane Knapp, UK Representative, Company Law Committee, Council of the Bars and Law Societies of the EU. For services to Corporate Law.
Fiona Denise, Mrs. Knight (Ms Street), lately Chair, United Kingdom Homecare Association. For services to disabled people.
Roger David Verdon Knight, lately Secretary and Chief Executive, Marylebone Cricket Club. For services to Sport.
Harmesh Lakhanpaul, Director, Peterborough Race Equality Council. For services to Community Relations.
James Hugh Callum Laurie, Actor, Writer and Di