[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wyandanch (sachem)

ance to him, agreed to pay tribute and allowed the Niantic chief to sell his land. Wyandanch however claimed that he had simply paid ransom for the captives, through the intermediation of Lion Gardiner. Additionally, Roger Williams gave the credit for the peace to English in their role as mediators.

Wyandanch broke the agreement in 1654, perhaps in a calculated move to demonstrate his independence, by launching a surprise attack against the Niantics. At the same time, Wyandanch brokered an agreement between members of his tribe and the English colonists on Long Island in relation to cattle grazing rights. As a result, by 1655, he received substantial military support from the colonists in his war against Ninigret. This included a colonial sloop which patrolled Long Island Sound and sank any Niantic canoes that were trying to make their way across.

Ninigret in turn attempted to use colonial institutions to get back at Wyandanch and accused the Montaukett sachem before the English. The three charges were that Wyandanch had broken the peace treaty, that he had personally murdered an Englishman named Drake, and that he had been practicing witchcraft in an attempt to kill the Mohegan chief Uncas (Uncas made a similar charge at about the same time). Wyandanch was exonerated on all three charges because Ninigret's witnesses failed to show up on time, and because the English colonists of Long Island testified on Wyandanch's behalf in the Plymouth court. The trial however did demonstrate the greater use and reliance of the Native American tribes in the area on colonial institutions.

Later life

In the second half of the 1650s, Wyandanch had acquired enough power and influence to be considered the main "alliance chief" on Long Island by the colonists. He acted as an intermediary between English colonists and the Native Americans; he defused a tense situation between the colonists and some Shinnecocks who had been accused of arson. After the Shinnecocks were ordered to pay an outrageous fine for restitution Wyandanch filed an appeal on their behalf which resulted in the fine being somewhat reduced. His other activities involved certifying land sales, making such sales himself and resolving disputes over deeds and payments. Eventually, the English colonists accepted that any such transfer of land had to first be approved by Wyandanch.

In late 1658 Wyandanch let an English colonists, Jeremy Daily, use his canoe (which may have been up to  long) to transport goods across Long Island sound, in exchange for Daily carrying out some repairs on it prior to the shipment. After arriving on Gardiners Island, Daily failed to properly care for the boat and in subsequent bad weather it became damaged. As a result, Wyandanch sued Daily in colonial court, in what was one of the earliest trials with an English defendant and a Native American plaintiff in the history of the English colonies in North America. Wyandanch won his case and Daily had to pay him ten shillings for damages and additional fines for court fees.

Death

In 1659, he deeded a portion of his land to Lion Gardiner which later became the town of Smithtown and also appointed Gardiner the guardian of his young son, Wyancombone until he reached maturity.  Gardiner later claimed that Wyandanch was poisoned but he did not state why or by whom.

Wyandanch's wife  and son  died soon after him, in the plague that struck the Algonquian tribes in southern New England during this time. After his death the office of "chief sachem" and "alliance chief" went into decline and was completely eliminated by the colonists after they managed to conquer New Netherland.

Legacy
Wyandanch, New York is named for him.

References

Works cited
John A. Strong "Wyandanch: Sachem of the Montauks", in Robert Grumet ed., "Northeastern Indian Lives", University of Massachusetts Press, 1996, books.google.com
Edith Hay Wyckoff, "The fabled past: tales of Long Island", Kennikat Press/University of Virginia, 1978.
Jacqueline Overton, "Indian life on Long Island: family, work, play, legends, heroes", Volume 23 of Empire State historical publications series, I. J. Friedman, 1963.

Native American leaders
17th-century Native Americans
People from East Hampton (town), New York
People of the Province of New York
1615 births
1658 deaths
Native American people from New York (state)