[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Pallisers

ime-Life Films and, in its first presentation in the United States, was the first weekly series of extended length to be screened on pay-television which had previously principally screened films and sport. The then new Home Box Office (HBO) paid a reported $500,000 for a one-year screening licence.

Reception
The series followed the dramatisation of John Galsworthy's Forsyte cycle of novels in The Forsyte Saga (1967). Both projects share the Victorian time period, the multi-generational narrative and the six-month length of the series. Some writers at the time termed it 'Son of Forsyte', although it did not have the impact of the earlier series. The series was re-edited to 22 episodes for its 1970s screenings in the United States on PBS. 

Reviewing the series in The Daily Telegraph for its 2015 rebroadcast, Gerald O'Donovan wrote: "In a world where BBC drama tends to be commissioned in taste-testing dribs and drabs of three or six episodes the mere fact that this is a 26-parter seems to imbue The Pallisers with a relaxed, witty confidence that's hard to find in TV drama now". However, he concluded that "The Pallisers, for all its pleasures, is a bauble left over from more extravagant TV times." Neil Clark, in an article for The Guardian the following year, commended this costume drama as "the best of them all" when it was repeated once more. In Clark's opinion: "The Pallisers stands as a reminder of how satisfying television drama can be when writers, producers and directors concentrate on emotion instead of editing, and don't underestimate their audience."

Impact

In 1978, Palliser Downs Drive in Hillsborough, Auckland was named after the television series.

DVD release
All episodes of The Pallisers are available on DVD in Australia, the United Kingdom and North America.

References

External links
BBC programme

BBC television dramas
Television series set in the 19th century
Period television series
1970s British drama television series
1974 British television series debuts
1974 British television series endings
English-language television shows
Palliser novels