[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 179]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

veered round in defence of the
institution that she had been just jeering at.

"Well, after all, it is the order of Nature to have one's fun at the
expense of someone, and I don't believe we shall ever be able to
practise any other principle, I mean on a national scale, however much
we may progress."

"Oh, but we shan't progress unless we _do_," said the Professor.

"You are always paradoxical."

"There is no paradox here. I am just as certain as I am of my own
existence, that real, solid, permanent progress is impossible to any
people until they recognise, as a mere truism, that whatever is gained
by cruelty, be it towards the humblest thing alive, is not gain, but the
worst of loss."

"Oh, you always go too far!" cried Valeria.

"I don't admit that in a horror of cruelty, it is possible to go too
far," the Professor replied. "Cruelty is the one unpardonable sin." He
passed his hand across his brow, with a weary gesture, as if the
pressure of misery and tumult and anguish in the world, were more than
he could bear.

"You won't give up your music, Hadria," Valeria said, at the end of a
long cogitation.

"It is a forlorn sort of pursuit," Hadria answered, with a whimsical
smile, "but I will do all I can." Valeria seemed relieved.

"And you will not give up hope?"

"Hope? Of what?"

"Oh, of--of----. What an absurd question!"

Hadria smiled. "It is better to face facts, I think, than to shroud them
away. After all, it is only by the rarest chance that character and
conditions happen to suit each other so well that the powers can be
developed. They are generally crushed. One more or less----." Hadria
gave a shrug.

The Professor broke in, abruptly.

"It is exactly the one more or less that sends the balance up or down,
that decides the fate of men and nations. An individual often counts
more than a generation. If that were not so, nothing would be possible,
and hope would be insane."

"Perhaps it is!" said Hadria beneath her breath.

The Professor had risen. He heard the last words, but made no
remonstrance. Yet there was a something in his expression that gave
comfort.

"I fear I shall have to be going back," he said, looking at his watch.
As he spoke, the first notes of a nightingale stole out of the
shrubbery. Voices were hushed, and the three stood listening spellbound,
to the wonderful impassioned song. Hadria marvelled at its strange
serenity, despite the passion, and speculated vaguely as to the
possibility of a paradox of the same kind in the soul of a human being.
Passion and serenity? Had not the Professor combined these apparent
contradictions?

There was ecstasy so supreme in the bird's note that it had become calm
again, like great heat that affects the senses, as with frost, or a
flooded river that runs swift and smooth for very fulness.

Presently, a second nightingale began to answer from a distant tree, and
the garden was filled with the wild music. One or two stars had already
twinkled out.

"I ought really to be going," said the Professor.

But he lingered still. His eyes wandered anxiously to Hadria's white
face. He said good-night to Valeria, and then he and Hadria walked to
the gate together.

"You will come back and see us at Craddock Dene soon after you return,
won't you?" she said wistfully.

"Of course I will. And I hope that meanwhile, you will set to work to
get strong and well. All your leisure ought to be devoted to that
object, for the present. I should be so delighted to hear from you now
and again, when you have a spare moment and the spirit moves you. I will
write and tell you how I fare, if I may. If, at any time, I can be of
service to you, don't forget how great a pleasure it would be to me to
render it. I hope if ever I come back to England----"

"When you come back," Hadria corrected, hastily.

----"that we may meet oftener."

"Indeed, that will be something to look forward to!"

They exchanged the hearty, lingering handshake of trusty friendship and
deep affection. The last words, the last good wishes, were spoken, the
last wistful effort was made of two human souls to bid each other be of
good cheer, and to bring to one another comfort and hope. Hadria leant
on the gate, a lonely figure in the dim star-light, watching the form
that had already become shadowy, retreating along the road and gradually
losing itself in the darkness.




CHAPTER XLVIII.


Autumn had come round again. Craddock Dene had calmed down after the
exciting event of the summer. Martha's little cottage was now standing
empty, the virginia creeper trailing wildly, in thick festoons and
dangling sprays over the porch and creeping up round the windows, even
threatening to cover them with a ruddy screen, since now the bright
little face no longer looked out of the latticed panes, and the cottage
was given over to dust and spiders.

Mrs. Temperley was often seen by the villagers passing al