[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Decentralist Social Force Party

The Decentralist Social Force Party () also known as Social Force () was a centre-left, social democratic, Peruvian political party. Founded in 1997 as the Party for Social Democracy (), in 2007 it changed to its current name after incorporating members of the CONREDES de Junín Movement and the Cajamarca Social Force movement.

History 
In 1999, in an assembly in Carabayllo, the Party for Social Democracy - Commitment for Peru was officially founded, being its first national coordinator Francisco Guerra-García. In 2000, in another assembly, Susana Villarán was elected as the national coordinator.

It was previously a member of the Concertación Descentralista, together with the Partido Movimiento Humanista Peruano (PMHP). The alliance was formally announced on 10 December 2005, two days after both parties obtained formal recognition by the Jurado Nacional de Elecciones, the election process authority. The alliance was ended the next year.

The Party Decentralist Social Force participated in the October 2010 elections in various departments and provinces of Peru, in many cases in alliances with regional movements.

In Lima, they formed a coalition with the "Movimiento Tierra y Libertad", the "Movimiento Nueva Izquierda" and the political movement "Lima Para Todos" to launch the candidacy of Susana Villarán, who obtained first place, becoming the first female elected mayor of Lima.

On December 10, 2010, Fuerza Social registered with the National Elections Jury as the Social Force Alliance to participate in the 2011 elections together with the New Left Movement and the Fonavistas of Peru. The next day, the party's legal representative re-registered the alliance but now only with the New Left Movement, excluding the Fonavista Party due to the link of one of its main leaders with the Comunicore case.

On December 18, 2010, in a party assembly, they decided the alliance with the New Left Movement, and launched the candidacy of Manuel Rodríguez Cuadros for the Presidency of the Republic in the 2011 elections, while the vice-presidential candidates They are Vladimiro Huaroc and Elva Quiñones.

On March 18, 2011, Manuel Rodríguez Cuadros and his presidential ticket resigned their candidacies, however the party's list to the Congress of the Republic and the Andean Parliament was maintained, although they did not manage to overcome the electoral threshold of 5% of the votes, the party losing its registration.

Last years 
The party joined the Together for Peru coalition in May 2017, but ended up leaving in August 2019 in order to merge with Citizens for Change, a movement led by former Prime Minister Salomon Lerner Ghitis. The merger gave birth to Citizen Force, though Citizen Force was part of the Together for Peru coalition.

Electoral history

Presidential elections

Election to the Congress of the Republic

See also 
 :Category:Decentralist Social Force Party politicians

References

External links 
 Partido por la Democracia Social

1997 establishments in Peru
2019 disestablishments in Peru
Defunct political parties in Peru
Defunct social democratic parties
Democratic socialist parties in South America
Political parties disestablished in 2019
Political parties established in 1997
Social democratic parties in South America
Socialist parties in Peru