[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Matt Oakley

Matthew Oakley (born 17 August 1977) is an English football coach and former professional footballer.

As a player, he was a midfielder, notably in the Premier League with Southampton playing there for over a decade, including their defeat to Arsenal in the 2003 FA Cup Final. However, a proneness to injury cost him nearly two years of football but managed 261 league appearances during his time with the club. He also played in the Premier League for Derby County who he had captained the club to promotion via the Championship play-offs in 2007. He also played for Championship side Leicester City where he was the team captain from 2008 to 2011. He could not prevent their relegation to League One. He enjoyed an injury-free season when he captained the team to promotion as league winners at the first attempt. He finished his career playing for Exeter City, in League One and League Two.

Following retirement, Oakley was added to the Coaching staff at Exeter by manager Paul Tisdale in 2017 as Assistant Manager he then followed Tisdale to Milton Keynes Dons as assistant manager but was dismissed in 2019.

Club career

Southampton 
Born in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, Oakley joined Southampton's youth training scheme, and made his debut at Everton at the age of 17 on 6 May 1995, whilst still a trainee. He turned professional soon afterwards. His skilful displays for Southampton were star studded that he would watch video clips of himself in action. He played for Southampton in the 2003 FA Cup final against Arsenal, finishing runners-up as they lost 1–0.

He became a regular first team player in the 1996–97 season, when he scored three goals in 28 games as the Saints avoided relegation in 16th place. He would remain a regular player for most of the next decade.

Oakley's injury woes began in September 2003 when he suffered damaged knee ligaments in a 1–0 defeat to Middlesbrough, sidelining him for six weeks. However, he had to undergo an operation in November after aggravating his injury during rehabilitation, keeping him out of contention for the rest of the 2003–04 season. Oakley felt he was "very lucky" after he recovered in May 2004. He aggravated his injury again during Southampton's trip to Sweden, missing out on the start of the following season.

His injury proneness nearly cost him two years of football in his last seasons at Southampton. Oakley spent majority of the 2004–05 season recuperating on the sidelines, suffering another setback along the way, while Southampton struggled for form. In January 2005, Rotherham United offered to sign him on loan in an effort to help him regain his fitness. Oakley watched helplessly as an unused substitute as Southampton were relegated from the Premier League on 15 May 2005, after a 2–1 defeat to Manchester United.

In 2005–06, Oakley was back to full fitness and was once again a first team regular, making 29 league appearances and scoring two goals. He played his last match for Southampton in a 3–0 league win over Sheffield Wednesday on 25 February 2006. Then-manager George Burley commented on Oakley in May 2006, "I've not seen the best of Matt Oakley yet but I believe he can recapture his best form. If he's fully fit again he will be very valuable." Unconvinced with Oakley's form, he was only offered a one-year extension to his contract.

On 28 June 2006, Oakley rejected Burley's offer, and absented himself from pre-season training. As he was then approaching 29, he had hoped for a contract that would take him towards the end of his career – and take in a talked-of testimonial match. His departure ended 12 years of service after having played a total of 311 games for the club. Oakley then spent pre-season training with then Premier League team Charlton Athletic, who offered him a one-year deal, and was also chased by Ipswich Town.

Derby County 

On 4 August 2006, he signed a three-year contract with Derby County on a free transfer. Oakley was immediately named team captain, with Michael Johnson becoming club captain. He made his debut in a 2–0 defeat to Stoke City on 8 August 2006.

Oakley's first goal for Derby came in the first away win of the season against Hull City. His lashed half volley sent Derby on their way to a 2–1 win. He also scored the winner in the home match against West Bromwich Albion. His thunderous 30-yard strike capped off a fine comeback by the Rams. And following his trend in scoring sublime goals, Oakley scored a 16-yard half volley into the top of the net proving to be the winner in a 2–1 win. He went on to captain the side to play-off success confirming their return to the Premier League with a 1–0 win over West Bromwich Albion.