[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# European University Institute

The European University Institute (EUI) is an international postgraduate and post-doctoral teaching and research institute and an independent body of the European Union with juridical personality, established by the member states to contribute to cultural and scientific development in the social sciences, in a European perspective. EUI is designated as an international organisation. It is located in the hills above Florence in Fiesole, Italy. In 2021, EUI's School of Transnational Governance, with its graduate and executive programmes, moved to the Casino Mediceo di San Marco, which is a late-Renaissance or Mannerist style palace in the historic centre of Florence.

History and member states
The European University Institute (EUI) was founded in 1972 by the member states of the European Community.

The EUI finds its origins in the advocacy for a European institute at the 1948 Hague Conference and the European Conference on Culture the following year in Lausanne. At the 1955 Messina Conference, when the members of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) gathered to assess that organisation's progress, the German secretary of state, Walter Hallstein, called for the establishment of a training centre for nuclear sciences.

The idea remained largely dormant until 1969 when European leaders met in The Hague and resolved to fund a European University Institute (EUI) in Florence. By this point the idea had evolved from a centre for nuclear sciences to one focused on the human sciences, promoting a cultural exchange between member states.

Plans were put into motion with conferences in Florence and Rome in 1970 and 1971, when it was decided that the institute would be reserved for post-graduate studies and not directly a Community institution.

The six member states – Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands – signed a convention in 1972 establishing the EUI as a pillar for research and development. The EUI Convention entered into force in 1975, and the institute opened its doors to its first 70 researchers in 1976. Its mission, laid down in the 1970s, is to "foster the advancement of learning in fields which are of particular interest for the development of Europe".

Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom joined the European Community in 1973, and subsequently acceded to the convention establishing the EUI. In 1992, a new convention revising the 1972 convention establishing the EUI was signed by the then 12 Community member states. It entered into force in 2007 when the last contracting state ratified the convention.

, the EUI member states are all EU member states except Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, and Lithuania.

Departments and centres

Department of Economics
The Economics Department provides teaching and supervision to PhD students. The research activities of the department reflect the interests of the faculty and are concentrated in micro, macro and econometrics. Weekly research seminars are given by scholars from around the world. The teaching in the doctoral programme is based on formal coursework at a level which will allow researchers to pursue academic careers in universities or to follow professional opportunities in international organisations. In their third and fourth years researchers work on their thesis projects under the guidance of their supervisor while attending research workshops and seminars.

Department of History and Civilisation
The Department of History and Civilisation (HEC) offers a programme of transnational and comparative European history. The doctoral programme studies the construction of Europe's boundaries and the diversity and complexity of experiences within them.

The department's central concerns are the interlinking of European societies since the Renaissance and the complex cultural legacies that have shaped contemporary Europe. The HEC community is also committed to exploring the place of Europe in the world through the study of empires, global processes and institutions.

The variety of research approaches and themes, as well as the broad background of its professors, enable the department to recruit Ph.D. candidates and to host outstanding research fellows.

Department of Law
The Department of Law is European and international in character. It is committed to the study of law in a comparative and contextual manner, with a special focus on European and international law.

Courses and seminars are interactive, research-oriented and designed to cover the main subject areas of the department's work. Researchers gain experience in presenting their work, and are encouraged to participate in conferences, workshops and the department's working groups.

Within the department, the Academy of European Law (AEL) offers advanced-level summer courses in Human Rights Law and EU Law. It also manages research projects and runs a publications programme.