[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of Roman external wars and battles

captured women.
 101 BC - Battle of Vercellae – Romans under Gaius Marius defeat the Cimbri, who are entirely annihilated.
 Jugurthine War (112–105 BC)
 108 BC – Battle of the Muthul – Roman forces under Caecilius Metellus fight indecisively against the forces of Jugurtha of Numidia

1st century BC

 First Mithridatic War (89–85 BCE)
 89 BC – Battle of Protopachium – Manius Aquillius loses against Archelaus, general of the Pontic army.
 88 BC – Battle of Mount Scorobas – Manius Aquilius is defeated by Archelaus and captured.
 88 BC – Siege of Rhodes – Mithridates fails to capture Rhodes, defended by the proconsul Lucius Cassius.
 87–86 BC – Siege of Athens and Piraeus – Sulla takes Athens, which had sided with Mithridates.
 86 BC – Battle of Tenedos – Lucullus defeats the Pontic general Neoptolemus in a sea battle.
 86 BC – Battle of Chaeronea – Sulla defeats Archelaus.
 85 BC – Battle of Orchomenus – Sulla again defeats Archelaus in the decisive battle of the war.
 Second Mithridatic War (83–81 BCE)
 82 BC – Battle of Halys – Roman general Lucius Licinius Murena fights Mithridates and Gordius after launching several raids, to which the Romans lose.
 Third Mithridatic War (73–63 BCE)
 73 BC – Battle of Cyzicus – Roman forces under Lucullus defeat the forces of Mithridates.
 72 BC – Battle of Cabira or the Rhyndacus – Lucullus defeats the retreating forces of Mithridates, opening way to Pontus.
 69 BC – Battle of Tigranocerta – Lucullus defeats the army of Tigranes II of Armenia, who was harbouring his father-in-law Mithridates.
 68 BC – Battle of Artaxata – Lucullus again defeats Tigranes.
 66 BC – Battle of the Lycus – Pompey decisively defeats Mithridates, effectively ending the War.
 65 BC – Caucasian campaign of Pompey – Roman victory, vassalisation of the Kingdom of Iberia
 63 BC – Siege of Jerusalem – Pompey captured Jerusalem
 Gallic Wars (58–51 BCE) 
 58 BC –
 June – Battle of the Arar (Saône) – Caesar defeats the migrating Helvetii
 July – Battle of Bibracte – Caesar again defeats the Helvetians, this time decisively.
 September – Battle of Vosges – Caesar decisively defeats the forces of the Germanic chieftain Ariovistus near modern Belfort
 57 BC –
 Battle of the Axona (Aisne) – Caesar defeats the forces of the Belgae under King Galba of Suessiones.
 Battle of the Sabis (Sambre) – Caesar defeats the Nervii.
 Battle of Octodurus (Martigny) – Servius Galba defeats the Seduni and Veragri.
 56 BC –
 Battle of Morbihan – Caesar defeats the Veneti in a sea battle.
 55 BC –
 Caesar's first invasion of Britain – Caesar crosses the English Channel, winning a battle against the Celtic Britons, but achieves little else.
 54 BCE 
 Caesar's second invasion of Britain – Caesar returns to Britain, and defeats Cassivellaunus. He extracts tribute from the Brittonics, but fails to incorporate Britain as Roman territory.
 52 BC – Battle of Alesia – Caesar defeats the Gallic rebel Vercingetorix, completing the Roman conquest of Gallia Comata.
 Roman–Parthian war of 54–53 BCE. This conflict resulted from the Parthian war of succession (57–54 BCE) between Mithridates IV and his brother Orodes II after killing their father, king Phraates III. The Roman invasion of Parthia, commencing in 54 BCE and ending catastrophically at the Battle of Carrhae in 53 BCE, was partially motivated by or justified as supporting Mithridates' claim to the Parthian throne.
 53 BCE – Battle of Carrhae – Roman army commanded by triumvir Crassus is disastrously defeated by the Parthians.