[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Theophilus H. Holmes

Lieutenant-General Theophilus Hunter Holmes (November 13, 1804 – June 21, 1880) was an American soldier who served as a senior officer of the Confederate States Army and commanded infantry in the Eastern and Trans-Mississippi theaters of the American Civil War. He had previously served with distinction as an officer of the United States Army in the Seminole and Mexican–American wars. A friend and protégé of Confederate States President Jefferson Davis, he was appointed commander of the Trans-Mississippi Department but failed in his key task, which was to defend the Confederacy's hold on the Mississippi.

Early life and education 
Holmes was born in Sampson County, North Carolina, in 1804. His father, Gabriel Holmes, was a former Governor of North Carolina and U.S. Congressman. After a failed attempt at plantation managing, Holmes asked his father for an appointment to the United States Military Academy, from which he graduated in 1829. He was ranked 44 out of 46 in his class. Holmes was quite deaf and was rarely aware of loud gunfire.

United States Army 

After graduating, Holmes was commissioned a brevet second lieutenant in the 7th U.S. Infantry Regiment. In 1838, Holmes attained the rank of captain. During his early services, Holmes served in Florida, the Indian Territory, and Texas. Holmes also served in the Second Seminole War, with distinction. In 1841, he married Laura Whetmore, with whom he had eight children. During the Mexican–American War, he was brevetted to major for the Battle of Monterrey in September 1846. This promotion was due to Jefferson Davis witnessing his courageous actions there. He received a full promotion to major of the 8th U.S. Infantry Regiment in 1855.

Confederate States Army

Early service 
Almost immediately after the firing on Fort Sumter, Holmes resigned his commission in the U.S. Army and his command of Fort Columbus, on Governors Island in New York City, on April 22, 1861, having accepted a commission as a colonel in the Confederate States Army in March. He commanded the coastal defenses of the Department of North Carolina and then served as a brigadier-general in the North Carolina Militia. He was appointed brigadier-general on June 5, 1861, commanding the Department of Fredericksburg. Holmes was assigned to P. G. T. Beauregard, for the First Battle of Manassas. Beauregard sent Holmes orders to attack the U.S. left, but by the time the orders reached Holmes, the Confederate army was already victorious. Holmes was promoted to major general on October 7, 1861. He subsequently commanded the Aquia District  before being assigned to the Department of North Carolina.

Peninsula Campaign 
During the Peninsula Campaign in the spring of 1862, Holmes was moved to the Richmond area to defend it from the U.S. assault on the Confederate capital; thus, he became temporarily attached to the Army of Northern Virginia. His division consisted of the brigades of Brigadier-Generals Junius Daniel, John G. Walker, Henry A. Wise, and the cavalry brigade of Brig. Gen. J. E. B. Stuart. On June 30, 1862, while the Battle of Glendale was fought to the north, Holmes was ordered to cannonade retreating U.S. soldiers near Malvern Hill. His force was repulsed at Turkey Bridge by artillery fire from Malvern Hill and by the U.S. gunboats Galena and Aroostook on the James. His force was in reserve during the Battle of Malvern Hill on July 1, 1862. After the Seven Days Battles, Robert E. Lee expressed displeasure at Holmes's mediocre performance. The two also had fundamental disagreements on strategy. Lee appears to have not been alone in his belief that the nearly 60-year-old Holmes was too old, sluggish, and passive (better as an administrator than a field commander) to wage the aggressive war of movement that Lee planned. In truth, the entire Confederate counterattack in the Seven Days Battles had been handled ineffectively, and many generals were to blame, including Lee himself. Jefferson Davis, in particular, did not think Holmes was any more at fault than the rest of the Army of Northern Virginia's command structure. Nonetheless, his age and unremarkable record in the war up to that point were factors against him, and Lee quickly made it clear that Holmes would not make the cut during the post-Seven Days restructuring of the army. General D. H. Hill, who was known for his sarcastic temperament, also widely spread the story of Holmes, saying, "I thought I heard firing" at Malvern Hill.