[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Warcraft III in esports

He won ZOTAC Cup 16 times. He was the back to back champion of ProGamer League and the champion of World e-Sports Games 2010 and Cyberathlete Professional League 2011. He also got bronze medals of the International E-Sports Festival two times. He is the last Warcraft 3 champion of World Cyber Games.

Grubby — Manuel Schenkhuizen
Schenkhuizen won the 2004 and 2008 World Cyber Games representing The Netherlands and has been considered the western world's premier Warcraft III player ever since. He is known for his strength in international competition winning such tournaments as the 2005 Electronic Sports World Cup and the 2006 World Series of Video Games. He was signed with British based Four Kings, until the team's 2008 dissolution. Schenkhuizen has been a key player throughout his professional career. The Four Kings Warcraft III team was recognized as the 2005 eSport Team of the Year. Individually he has been recognized as Warcraft III player of 2005, 2006 and the eSports Player of 2006. Known as the "Orc Emperor" in televised leagues, he has been considered one of the world's best players.

Lyn — Park June
Park June is a Korean Orc player. He is the only player who won almost all of the premier tournaments which include World Cyber Games, Electronic Sports World Cup, Battle.Net and Intel Extreme Masters. For Intel Extreme Master, he got the champion of Global Challenge in Los Angeles in 2007 and World Championship in 2008. The only two premier tournaments which he has never won are the World e-Sports Games and International E-Sports Festival, but he has won the silver medal of the World e-Sports Games in 2008 and 2010, and the silver medal of the International E-Sports Festival in 2007. He helped the team World Elite win the Warcraft III Champions League Season XI. He was the first top player to use the Blade Master as the race's core hero and collect low price items to increase the skills of the Blade Master.

Fly100% — Lu Weiliang
Lu Weiliang is a Chinese Orc player. He is considered one of the best Orc players and is one of the professional players of Warcraft 3 with the longest careers. Liu Weiliang began his professional e-sports career in team Hacker and started gaining international recognition after joining the Mousesports. From 2008 to 2009, he won multiple tournaments like the International E-Sports Festival 2009, ProGamer League IV, Electronic Sports World Cup Asian master and Intel Extreme Masters Global Challenge 2010. Lu Weiliang reached the grand final of World Cyber Games in 2009 and World Cyber Games 2012, placing second both times, and won the bronze medal in WCG 2011. He also placed second in the Warcraft III Champions League Season XV and NGL One season III in Mousesports.

 Moon — Jang Jae-ho
Jang is known for his domination of televised competition in South Korea since Reign of Chaos, he won six televised leagues and the last five seasons of the ongoing MBCGame World War series. He has won over 200,000 USD in prize money since 2005 and reportedly earns 9,000 USD in monthly salary. He currently plays for the Korea-based team WeMade FOX and resides in South Korea. Widely considered the world's best Night Elf player, Moon has been a top contender in the professional circuit for many years. Known for his inventive playstyle and popularizing of many Night Elf strategies, Moon has been nicknamed "The Fifth Race".

Sweet — Chun Jung Hee
Chun has been recognized among the top Warcraft III players since the beginning of the professional competitive scene and has won two world championships as well as several professional events in South Korea. Sweet's lengthy career includes being recognized as the Warcraft III Player of 2004, winning the 3rd edition of the World e-Sports Games and the 2nd edition of the Blizzard Worldwide Invitational. Sweet was the first Korean to move to China to compete as a member of the China-based Beijing eSport Team [BeT].

MaDFroG — Fredrik Johansson
Johansson was a dominating Warcraft III player from 2003 till 2004 and is regarded as an icon of professional gaming. He was the runner-up of the 2003 Electronic Sports World Cup representing Sweden and following this tournament travelled to Seoul, South Korea to compete in the country's televised leagues. He stayed there for eleven months in which he won the first Blizzard Worldwide Invitational and joined a Korean professional gaming team. Upon his return to Europe, he became the runner-up of the 2004 Electronic Sports World Cup and was recognized as the eSports Player of 2004. After briefly playing StarCraft II upon its release in July 2010, MaDFrog is no longer active as a professional gamer.

Warcraft III World Championships 
There have been various Warcraft III world championships, see Warcraft III World Championships for an overview.