[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tombos Stela

The Tombos Stela is an ancient Egyptian rock inscription found in the area of Tombos (Nubia), dated to Year 2 of Pharaoh Thutmose I. It attests to his military campaign into Nubia around the area of the 3rd cataract of the Nile. It was discovered around 1829, on a large boulder in Tombos, Nubia on the east bank of the Nile. Thutmose is known to have expanded Egypt’s borders throughout his reign, not only in Nubia, but also by campaigns in the Syria-Palestine area. During the Middle Kingdom, pharaohs such as Mentuhotep II had already expanded into Nubia. However, scholars argue that the Tombos stela is evidence of farther expansion by Thutmose into Nubia than previous kings.

Background 
The Nile flows generally north through Africa, passing through Nubia into Egypt and eventually empties into the Mediterranean Sea. Along stretches of the river south of Egypt there are what are termed "cataracts". Cataracts are areas in the river where there are patches of rock, making the river dangerous and unnavigable by boat. These cataracts served as general boundary points for the Egyptian Empire, and often settlements and forts were constructed around these natural boundaries. Egypt’s natural boundary was in the area of the first cataract, just south of Aswan. The Nubian empire was Egypt’s historical enemy, with its territory spread throughout the areas of the second cataract, down into the area of Kush, and around the 4th and 5th cataracts around the area of Khartoum (Modern day Sudan). Around the time of the Second Intermediate Period Nubia seized land past its border with Egypt at the 1st cataract, almost wiping out Egypt’s empire. Egyptian Pharaoh Ahmose crushed the Nubian expansion and re-established Egyptian dominance by reunifying the empire while turning back the Nubians to the south.

The text 
Two of the more prominently-used English versions of the text are those translated by scholars James Henry Breasted and Hans Goedicke. This article will use Goedicke’s translation. It reads as follows:

Year 2, 2d month of day 15 under the Majesty of Horus “victorious bull” law loving; Nbty: who appears with Nsrt, great of strength; gold-horus: beautiful of years, who enlivens the hearts, King, given life eternally, Son-of-Re Thutmosis. In the 2d year that he was introduced: His appearance as Chief of the two lands in order to rule what the sun disc has encircled, South and also North , namely the parts of Horus and seth- uniting the Two lands, as he sits on the thrones of Geb; Elevating the appearances of the Shmty, Indeed as soon as his Majesty took possession of his heritage, he ascended the dais of horus, concerning the widening of the borders of Thebes and the measured plots of the West Side concerning the plain and hill dwellers, even abominations-of god and restrained of locks work for her. (Foreign) southerners are going north, (foreign) northerners are going south; all foreigners are united their goods for the first occasion of the “Good-god” hpr-ke-re [Thutmosis I], living eternally. Victorious is Horus, the Lord of the two lands; After he tied the moving campaign to the landing posts, the superiors and their villages belong to him in veneration, and the skin-garbed are (either) dancing for His Majesty or are in respect for his uraeus: After he overthrew the chief of the Nubians, the despoiled Nubian belongs to his grip. After he had gathered the border markers of both sides, no escape existed among the evil-of-character; those who had come to support him---not one thereof remained. As the Nubian have fallen to terror and are laid aside throughout their lands, their stench, it floods their wadis, their blood is like a rainstorm. The carrion-eating birds over it are numerous, those birds were picking and carrying the flesh to another (desert) place. The one who keeps himself safe- the crocodile is a fugitive; the one who tries to hide himself from the successful Horus is one who is under what the Unique One will do. The son of Amun, seed of the god, whose name is hidden, offspring of the bull of the gods’ Ennead, excellent image of god’s limbs. Who does what the souls of Heliopolis will praise. Who fashions for the lords of the hwt. A stronghold for his entire army. Who approaches among the assembled Nine-bows like a young panther in a resting cattleherd, after the might of His Majesty has blinded it. Who reached the limits of the earth on its foundations, who stepped on its limits in his victorious strength while seeking to fight: nor can he find one who can approach facing him. Who opened wadis, which predecessors were ignorant of and any bearers of the Nbty have ever seen: his southern limit at the beginning of this earth and the northern one to that water which is circumvented. Who traveled continuously downstream from the south journey; such as has not happened to the other bitis, as his name has extended to the circuit of heaven. After it reached what is known of the Two lands, one swears by him in all l