[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# List of South African slang words

of yours
Ewe – lit. "yes" (Mbo-Nguni)
wena – Literally "you" (Mbo-Nguni). Commonly used in a sentence "Hayiwena!"

Slang originating from other countries 

The following slang words used in South African originated in other parts of the Commonwealth of Nations and subsequently came to South Africa.

 bint – a girl, from Arabic بِنْت. Usually seen as derogatory.
 buck – the main unit of currency: in South Africa the rand, and from the American use of the word for the dollar.
 china – friend, mate (from Cockney rhyming slang china [plate] = "mate"). 
 chow – to eat
 coaster – a state of affairs that surpasses cool
 pom – name for an English person originating from England
 shab short for shebeen.

Slang originating from ethnic minorities

South African Coloured slang 

The majority of Coloureds in South Africa speak Afrikaans.  Those who speak English use the equivalent English words as slang.
 Girl – Meisie
 Girlfriend – Noi
 Awe – "Howzit", "hello"; a slang way of greeting someone
 befok – "mad"; also possibly "super cool", as in My broe daai kar is befok. Pronounced \ber fork\.
 betters – "To replenish" or "refill". Example: Ekse lets make a betters with the mineral
 boss – "nice" – "that girl is boss, ek sê"
 boppin – "Very Good", example: "awe ekse my brah, howzit your side?"; in reply: "nei, eks (i am) boppin brah"
 bot – refer to gaam usually associated with a person, act or object that is either dodgy or gangster-like. (Originated from Afrikaans slang bot.)
 bushie – derogatory term for a "Coloured" person. Derived from the word bushman. Bushman are predominantly light in complexion.
 guy – similar to the American English word "dude"
 bok – girlfriend
 bolt/ace out – used extensively in KZN.  Means "by yourself" or "only one".
 chop – "stupid" or "pathetic" – "don't be such a chop (idiot)"
 chup – "tattoo" – "cool chup exse"
 chow – "eat" or food
 chuck – "leave".  Equivalent of American "to bounce". Examples: "Come bru lets chuck" or "sorry can't go to the braai i gotta chuck." If you are funny you might say, "boet, I have to make like Norris and Chuck."
 crown/kroon – "money"; can also refer to virginity.
 dowwel – "gamble"/ "nice or tasty" Examples: "He is going to dowwel all his money he earned." "That food dowwel."
 dasifouti – "no problem", lit. "there is no fault"
 duidelik – direct from Afrikaans, meaning "clear"; used to express clarity on something or excitement about something.
 eksê – from Afrikaans, translated it means "I say". Used in greeting i.e. "Whakind eksê" or in general speech.
 gaam – dodgy/gangster i.e. That person is gaam. (He is a gangster.)That place is gaam. (it is dodgy.)
 gam – derogatory term for Coloured people in South Africa. Derived from "Gham" or "Ham" referring to Ham in the Old Testament. It is a reference to the children of Noah's son Ham who were illegitimate and cursed into slavery by God.
 gammie – diminutive of "Gam", derogatory term for coloured people in South Africa, particularly in Cape Town.
 gatsby – large chip roll with meat and lekker sauces (Cape Town)
 gully – "area" or "corner" (KZN)
 hard up – "in love"
 Hosh – "Hello"; also used before combat. Example in combat: Hosh, jy raak wys ("Hello, show me what you made of"). This gang-related word occurs inside as well as outside of prison: use at own discretion (Black Slang).
 jas – "horny". The first form occurs in Cape Town; the second predominates on the east coast of South Africa.  May also mean "crazy" or "mad". Examples: Person A: I want to get robbed Person B: Are you jas? or Person A: Ek wil my werk verloor Person B: Is jy jas?.
 jap/jep – "steal". "They jepped that okes car" used in Gauteng.
 lekker/lukka – "nice" (from Afrikaans). The first form occurs more commonly; the second predominates in Kwa-Zulu Natal.
 lappie(pronounced *luppee*) – "cloth", "dish towel", "face cloth"
 maader – "the best", "excellent"
 meet up – Used in the Kwa-Zulu Natal region, a term usually used when saying "goodbye". For example: Lukka meet up ekse. 
 miff – "gross", "disgusting". "That's completely miff!" "Oh my god it was so miff"
 min – to be very interested or excited in something, or for something. For example, "so min for that jol" or "when you're min you win"
 mineral – pronounced 'min ral'; used by Indians as well.  "Fizzy drink" such as Coke, Fanta, Sprite, etc. (KZN)
 motjie – wife/woman
 naai – "sex" (Western Cape) Also used as a noun "Jou ou naai" (literally "You screw") and used in the plural: "naaie"  (literally more than one "screw"), meaning an undesirable person rather than the sexual act. Definitely not polite language.
 oweh – pronounced \ow where\, a way of saying "oh yes" or expressing delight.
 posie/pozzie – "home". Afrikaans-speakers tend to use the first for; English-speakers the second.
 press – "sex", as in: "I want to press my young one tonight" (KZN)
 shot – "good", "cool", "correct" or "thanks" (depending on context). Example for the meaning "good" – Person A: What is 3+3? Person B: six