[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Raymond Westerling

RIS Cabinet flooded the Dutch High Commissioner Hirschfeld with questions. Hirschfeld himself did not believe in the mass media at first, while Jend. Buurman van Vreeden and Gen. van Langen denied that they knew about the Dutch military leadership's assistance to Westerling in escaping to Singapore.

On February 25, Hirschfeld realized that all the reports were true and it turned out that he and Admiral Kist were the only ones who were not informed by van Vreeden, van Langen, and Fockema about the existence of a Dutch conspiracy to save Westerling from being arrested by the Indonesians. Following his word, Fockema immediately took the blame and stated that he was responsible and informed the Government of the United States of Indonesia that Hirschfeld had absolutely no knowledge of this matter. According to Moor's indications, since the scandal which was very embarrassing to the Dutch Government was uncovered, the relationship between Hirschfeld and the top Dutch military leadership in Indonesia has reached the lowest point.

On 21 August, Westerling left Singapore as a free man aboard the Australian Quantas aircraft and was accompanied by the Dutch Consul General to Singapore, Mr. R. van der Gaag, a Westerling supporter.

Landing in Belgium 

After a brief stop to Tangiers and then Paris, It turned out that Westerling himself was not immediately taken to the Netherlands, but – with van der Gaag's permission – he got off in Brussels, Belgium. He was soon visited by representatives of the Ambonese from The Hague, who founded the "Stichting Door de Eeuwen Trouw - DDET " (Foundation of Perpetual Faithfulness). They planned to return to Maluku to stir up rebellion there. In the Netherlands itself, Westerling in absentia became a most respected person.

Early April 1952, Westerling secretly entered the Netherlands. His whereabouts could not be hidden and were soon discovered, and on 16 April, Westerling was arrested at the home of Graaf A.S.H. van Rechteren. Hearing the news of Westerling's arrest in the Netherlands, on 12 May 1952 the Indonesian High Commissioner in the Netherlands Susanto requested that Westerling be extradited to Indonesia, but was refused by the Dutch government. Even the day after the extradition request, on 13 May, Westerling was released from custody. The decision of the Dutch Supreme Court on October 31, 1952 stated that Westerling was a Dutch citizen and therefore would not be extradited to Indonesia.

Life in the Netherlands 

After protracted wanderings, with constant threats of extradition to Indonesia, Westerling eventually arrived in the Netherlands and published his memoirs. With the help of John Thiessen, in preventing his extradition to Indonesia and the escorting of his Indonesian-French wife, Yvonne Fournier, Westerling settled down in a small town in the province of Friesland. After his release from detention, Westerling was often asked to speak at meetings, which were often packed with his devotees. At one meeting, he was asked why Sukarno had not been shot. Westerling replied, 

A few days later, the Indonesian High Commissioner protested to the Dutch cabinet against the insult.

In 1953, he founded the S.O.S. Foundation (Steunt Ontredderde Staten) in Sneek, which called for extra-parliamentary actions to force compliance with the peace agreement reached at the Round Table Conference (1949). In 1955, he co-founded the Dutch Conservative Party (renamed to Dutch Opposition Union), a continuation of the banned Nazi party National European Social Movement. The new grouping - an amalgamation of far-right politicians, adventurers and handy businessmen - made headlines for plans for armed action against Indonesia.

With financial support from ex-NSB Mr Jan Wolthuis and Groningen businessman and former Sicherheitspolizei and SD officer Pieter Gaillard, the armoured yacht Evipan was purchased to sail to Ambon. The ship proved unseaworthy, after which they purchased the Schnellboot Seeadler in Wilhelmshaven, which, however, was detained by the Dutch government. Another try was made with the Evipan, but it was seized on the Ems river and Westerling had to surrender his passport. The Dutch government refused any support to the movement, after which a protest rally in November 1955 openly threatened a coup of the Dutch government if they would not cooperate. "We have sufficiently filled arms depots," a spokesman for the former underground stated. In the process, Westerling was outlined as the ideal leader for the intended armed struggle in the Moluccas. Westerling, reportedly still on his way to Ambon, subsequently distanced himself from the new party, after which his comrades brought him before an 'honour council' on suspicion of embezzlement. However, he denied all allegations and the public tribunal was cancelled for unclear reasons.