[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Business marketing

Business marketing is a marketing practice of individuals or organizations (including commercial businesses, governments, and institutions). It allows them to sell products or services to other companies or organizations that resell them, use them in their products or services, or use them to support their works. It is a way to promote business and improve profit too.

Marketing can be broken down into many sections such as business-to-business marketing, business-to-consumer marketing, as well as business-to-developer marketing. However, business marketing is typically associated with business-to-business marketing.

Origins 

The practice of a purveyor of goods trading with another may be as old as commerce itself. In relation to marketing today, its history is more recent. Michael Morris, Leyland Pitt, and Earl Dwight Honeycutt say that for several years business marketing took "a back seat" to consumer marketing. This entailed providers of goods or services selling directly to households through mass media and retail channels. David Lichtenthal (professor of marketing at Zicklin School of Business) notes in his research that business marketing has existed since the mid-19th century. He adds that the bulk of research on business marketing has come in the last 25 years.

This began to change in the middle to late 1970s. Academic periodicals, including the Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing and the Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing now publish studies on the subject regularly. Professional conferences on business marketing are held every year and courses are commonplace at many universities today. According to Jeremy Kourdi, more than half of marketing majors start their careers in business marketing rather than consumer marketing.

Internal and external efficiency 
The internal efficiency of a business entity is the factor by which it prepares a product or service in a cost efficient manner. The external efficiency of a business entity is the factor by which it effectively markets itself so as to utilize the market, in order to retrieve maximum profits from that internal efficiency. So in a B2B market setting, the external efficiencies of the business entities due to conduct trade is vital to the success of the B2B transaction, especially if they belong to the same concern, in which case an internal market between the co-owned business entities is emergent. Being able to make use of external economies of scale within the same ownership group is actually one of the motivations for creating a concern.

Business and consumer markets (B2C) 

Business markets have derived demand – a demand in them exists because of demand in the consumer market. An example would be a government wishing to purchase equipment for a nuclear power plant. Another example would be when items are in popular demand. The underlying consumer demand that has triggered this is that people are consuming more electricity (by using more household devices such as washing machines and computers). Business markets do not exist in isolation.

A single consumer market demand can give rise to hundreds of business market demands. The demand for cars creates demands for castings, forgings, plastic components, steel, and tires. In turn, this creates demands for casting sand, forging machines, mining materials, polymers, and rubber. Each of these growing demands has triggered more demands.

As the spending power of citizens increases, countries generally see an upward wave in their economies. Cities or countries with growing consumption are generally growing business markets.

Vs. consumer marketing 

Despite the differences between business and consumer marketing from a surface perspective being seemingly obvious, there are more subtle distinctions between the two with substantial ramifications. Dwyer and Tanner note that business marketing generally entails shorter and more direct channels of distribution.

While consumer marketing is aimed at large groups through mass media and retailers, the negotiation process between the buyer and seller is more personal in business marketing. According to Hutt and Speh (2004), most business marketers commit only a small part of their promotional budgets to advertising, and that is usually through direct mail efforts and trade journals. While advertising is limited, it often helps the business marketer set up successful sales calls.

Both business to business (B2B) and business-to-consumer (B2C) marketing is done with the ultimate intention of making a profit to the seller (business-to-business marketing). In B2C, B2B and B2G marketing situations, the marketer must always:

 successfully match the product or service strengths with the needs of a definable target market;
 position and price to align the product or service with its market, often an intricate balance; and
 communicate and sell it in the fashion that demonstrates its value effectively to the target market.