[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Omega Boost

and AlphaCore attempts to escape through it to an unknown time. Omega Boost pursues it and destroys its three forms- crystal, serpent-like machine, and finally the true form, a vaguely fairylike humanoid with wings. After defeat, AlphaCore attempts to possess Omega Boost, but fails, disintegrating.

The end cutscene depicts Omega Boost arriving in 1946, crashing into a forest in North America. Lester locates ENIAC and, through a small probe, finds the vacuum tube infected by AlphaCore's virus, switching it out for the safe tube seen in the intro; thus preventing AlphaCore's rise to power and subsequent destruction of the human race.

Development
Similarities between Omega Boost and Sega's Panzer Dragoon series led to a rumor that former members of Team Andromeda, dissolved in 1998, had joined Polyphony Digital. This rumor turned out to be true as the lead designer and programmer on Omega Boost was Yuji Yasuhara, who had worked on Panzer Dragoon Zwei.

Among the games created by Polyphony Digital, Omega Boost was the only shoot 'em up, while the others are vehicle racing simulators.

Audio

The Omega Boost Original Soundtrack was released on June 19, 1999.

The album had a limited print and is considered very rare. As such, many fans of the game have found it easier to rip the soundtrack from the game disc itself, however, this leads to confusion over the official titles of the tracks, mainly because they are labeled as "areas" in-game instead of the official names given by the creators.

The opening movie and ending credits in each version features different music. The Japanese version uses "Shade" by Feeder as its opening theme and final boss theme, and "Ismeel" by Dip in the Pool as its ending theme. The North American version licenses songs by Loudmouth, opening with "Fly" and closing with "The Road"; as well as featuring "Otsegolation" by Static-X, played during the title screen and the final boss. Finally, the European version uses "Dreamer" by Cast as the opening, final boss and ending themes.

Merchandise
A series of action figures was created by Blue Box Toys, featuring mecha from the game, including: Omega Boost and Beta Boost. A third figure, Herbarcher, was shown on the back of the boxes; however, it was never released.

Reception

Omega Boost received above-average reviews according to the review aggregation website GameRankings. However, Chris Charla of NextGen called it "The textbook definition of a two-star game: competent, but totally uninspired." In Japan, Famitsu gave it a better score of 28 out of 40.

Notes

References

External links

Omega Boost at Game Set Watch

1999 video games
PlayStation (console) games
PlayStation (console)-only games
Rail shooters
Science fiction video games
Single-player video games
Sony Interactive Entertainment games
Video games about mecha
Video games developed in Japan
Polyphony Digital games