[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of Cuban Americans

t Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia
Esther Salas, United States District Court Judge of United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in Newark, New Jersey
Mauricio J. Tamargo, Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission

United States Armed Forces

Adolfo Fernández Cavada, captain in the Union Army during the American Civil War who later served as Commander-in-Chief of the Cinco Villas during Cuba's Ten Year War
Federico Fernández Cavada, colonel in the Union Army during the American Civil War and later Commander-in-Chief of all the Cuban forces during Cuba's Ten Year War
Mercedes O. Cubria, lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Army; first Cuban-born female officer in the US Army
Julius Peter Garesché, lieutenant colonel in the Union Army who served as Chief of Staff, with the rank of Lieutenant Colonel to Maj. Gen. William S. Rosecrans
Ambrosio José Gonzales, colonel in the Confederate Army during the American Civil War
Erneido Oliva, major general; former deputy commander of the D.C. National Guard
Félix Rodríguez, U.S. Army helicopter pilot, former CIA officer known for his involvement in the Bay of Pigs Invasion and his involvement in the capture and interrogation of Che Guevara
Lola Sánchez, Confederate spy during the American Civil War; played an instrumental role in the Confederate victory in the Battle of Horse Landing
José Agustín Quintero, Cuban born Confederate diplomat to Mexico, based in Monterrey
Loreta Janeta Velazquez (1842 – c. 1902), aka Lieutenant Harry Buford, Cuban-born woman who claimed that she masqueraded as a male Confederate soldier during the American Civil War

World leaders
Consuelo Montagu, Duchess of Manchester
Maria Teresa, Grand Duchess of Luxembourg

Science and technology

Aida de Acosta, first female to fly a powered aircraft
Aristides Agramonte, physician, pathologist and bacteriologist
Luis Walter Alvarez, Nobel Prize-winning experimental physicist (his paternal grandfather immigrated from Spain to Cuba and then to the United States)
Serena M. Auñón, American physician, engineer, and NASA astronaut
Agustin Walfredo Castellanos, physician
Nils J. Diaz, former Chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Isabel Pérez Farfante, carcinologist
Carlos Juan Finlay (1833–1915), Cuban physician and scientist recognized as a pioneer in yellow fever research
Gregg L. Friedman MD, Cuban physician and scientist
Maria Oliva-Hemker, Cuban-born American paediatrician
 Tony Silva, Cuban-born American aviculturist and ornithologist who has written many books and articles about parrots.
Albert Siu, internist and geriatrician at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City
Armando Simon, Cuban-born research psychologist and author of When Evolution Stops, which amended the Darwinian-Wallace theory of evolution.

Visual arts