[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lazarus Joseph

which he identified, as he was a guest of honor in December 1934 at a fundraiser for the Hebrew Home. He also played an active role as a board member in the Rabbi Jacob Joseph School, a yeshiva co-founded by his father in 1900, named after his grandfather, New York City's first and only chief rabbi.

After World War II Joseph championed the rehabilitation of 1,500,000 Jewish survivors of Nazism and the Holocaust, calling it in 1946 "the duty of every American citizen, Christian or Jew, black or white." He also noted at the same time that: "The seed of racial bias that that monster [Hitler] planted in Europe is growing in every part of the world, even in countries Americans died to liberate".  His attendance was recorded in news reports covering fundraisers in support of the new State of Israel during the years following its 1948 Declaration of Independence.

Other 

He was a member of the Hall of Fame of the Educational Alliance. According to the website politicalgraveyard.com, Joseph was a member of the Elks, Freemasons, and Knights of Pythias.

References

External links 
"Captain Jacob Joseph Playground", nycgovparks.org.
"The Yeshiva on Henry Street", by Dr. Marvin Schick, President of RJJ School, December 9, 2005.
"Jews in Sports" website
"Lakewood is Slobodka", December 24, 2012, yutorah.org.
"Letter by R. Jacob Joseph, Chief Rabbi of New York", virtualjudaica.com.

1891 births
1966 deaths
20th-century American politicians
American Orthodox Jews
American people of Lithuanian-Jewish descent
American people of Polish-Jewish descent
American Zionists
 County district attorneys in New York (state)
Jewish American attorneys
Jewish American state legislators in New York (state)
Jewish American government officials
Lawyers from New York City
New York City Comptrollers
Democratic Party New York (state) state senators
New York University School of Law alumni
NYU Violets men's basketball players
People from the Lower East Side
People from the Upper West Side
Politicians from the Bronx
20th-century American Jews