[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Human rights in Armenia

their family, and therefore, do not openly express their sexuality nor file complaints of human rights violations or of criminal offences. Armenia was ranked 47th out of 49 European countries for LGBT rights in 2013, with only Russia and Azerbaijan being worse for their human rights in this regard.

Lilit Martirosyan is a transgender woman who addressed Armenia's Parliament for 3 minutes on 5 April 2019. She told parliament that the organization that she founded, Right Side NGO, had recorded 283 cases of transgender rights violations. Some lawmakers were immediately hostile, saying that Martirosian had "...disturbed a hearing agenda and disrespected parliament." Members of the public threatened and condemned Martirosian and all transgender people living in Armenia. Armenia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson, Anna Naghdalyan, responded to a statement from the European Union mission in Yerevan and EU member state embassies that condemned the hate speech directed towards Martirosian, Right Side NGO, and the LGBTQ community: "Our international partners should demonstrate more respect and sensitivity towards the Armenian society and refrain from undue engagement in the public debate, even if they disagree with its tonality. We would like to remind that the principle of public morality is a part of international commitments on human rights and cannot be ignored."

Historical situation
The following chart shows Armenia’s ratings since 1991 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is "free"; 7, "not free".

See also 
 Armenia in the Council of Europe
 Europe in Law Association
 Helsinki Citizens’ Assembly–Vanadzor
 Helsinki Committee of Armenia
 Human rights in Europe
 Human rights in Asia
 Internet censorship in Armenia
 LGBT rights in Armenia
 Open Society Foundations–Armenia
 Social issues in Armenia
 Social protection in Armenia

Notes
1.Note that the "Year" signifies the "Year covered". Therefore the information for the year marked 2008 is from the report published in 2009, and so on.
2.As of January 1.

References

External links
 Human Rights Watch: Armenia
 Human Rights in Armenia website
 Human Rights Defender of Armenia
 Censorship in Armenia - IFEX