[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rashidieh

brothers Frumentius and Edesius, who got shipwrecked on the Eritrean coast in the 4th century CE. While Frumentius has been credited with bringing Christianity to the Kingdom of Aksum and became the first bishop of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, Edesius returned to Tyre to become a priest.

It was then in 1856, according to some sources, that Mustafa Reşid Pasha - the chief architect behind the Ottoman government reforms known as Tanzimat - obtained personal ownership of the lands in the area of Tell Habish. This was perhaps when he became Grand Vizier for the fifth time in his career at the end of that year. In any case, the transfer took obviously only place after the Ottoman leadership in Constantinople regained control over Jabal Amel from Muhammad Ali Pasha in 1839 after almost eight years. The army of the rebellious Egyptian Governor was defeated not only with allied support from the British Empire and Austria-Hungary, but mainly by Shiite forces under the leadership of the Ali al-Saghir dynasty.

The PEF Survey of Western Palestine (SWP) - led by Herbert Kitchener at the beginning of his military career - explored the area in May 1878 and described Er Rusheidiyeh as follows:"It is a hill about sixty feet above the level of the sea. It took its present name a few years ago, Rusheid Pasha (commonly written Reshid Pasha) having acquired the place and built a farm upon it of the old materials which covered the soil." 
And:"A large square building, built by Rusheid Pasha for a factory; now contains about 70 Metawileh, and is surrounded by gardens of olives, figs, pomegranates, and lemons. It stands on a slight hill above the plain, and has two strong springs near, surrounded by masonry."According to the Bavarian historian and politician Johann Nepomuk Sepp, who in 1874 led an Imperial German mission to Tyre in search of the bones of Holy Roman Emperor Frederick I "Barbarossa", the estate was taken over after the death of Reşid Pasha in 1858 by Sultan Abdulaziz.

In 1903, the Greek archaeologist Theodore Makridi Bey, curator of the Imperial Museum at Constantinople conducted archaeological excavations in Rashidieh and discovered a number of cinerary urns with human bones and ashes. Some were locally made while others were imported from Cyprus. These findings were apparently sent to the Ottoman capital.

A map from a 1906 Baedeker travel guide designates the area as "Tell Habesh or Reshîdîyeh". It showed gardens, a mill and a Khan (a Caravanserai).

 French Mandate colonial rule (1920–1943) 
On the first of September 1920, the colonial French rulers proclaimed the new State of Greater Lebanon. According to an oral history project, the new authorities gave "sections of Rashidieh Hill, where there were already two churches", to the Catholic Church’s Waqf, i.e. its financial endowment. It is unclear though whether this was the Latin-Catholic School or one of its orders like the Franciscans in Tyre, or the Maronite Catholic Archeparchy of Tyre, or the Melkite Greek Catholic Archeparchy of Tyre. The latter has apparently the largest property holdings of the Christian confessions in the area and is commonly just called "the Catholic church". In any event, it  has been reported that a Lebanese Christian village developed in Rashidieh.

In the following years, survivors of the Armenian genocide started arriving in Tyre, mostly by boat:  "The first agricultural settlement was created in Ra's al-'Ain, near the city of Tyre, in 1926. The operation quickly failed due to the animosity between refugees from different regions, but also between the refugees and the local population. The refugees had therefore to be relocated to Beirut."
Yet more refugees arrived and hence a branch of the Armenian General Benevolent Union was founded in Tyre in 1928. Then, in 1936, the colonial authorities started constructing a camp for Armenian refugees in Rashidieh. According to the above-mentioned oral history project, they were settled on the land which the French authorities had given to the Catholic church. The construction of the camp next to the Lebanese Christian village was planned on a street grid. The two village churches were incorporated into the camp. During the works a number of Phoenician tombs were discovered.

One year later, another camp was constructed in the El Bass area of Tyre.

In 1942, Emir Maurice Chehab (1904-1994) - "the father of modern Lebanese archaeology" who for decades headed the Antiquities Service in Lebanon and was the curator of the National Museum of Beirut - conducted further excavations in Rashidieh and discovered more cinerary urns from Phoenician times.

 Lebanese independence (since 1943) 

 1948 Palestinian exodus