[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Working Group on Arbitrary Detention

he Working Group may decide individual complaints of arbitrary detention, formulate deliberations to provide guidance on the interpretation of international standards related to detention circumstances and provide reports for the Human Rights Council. It may undertake country visits to achieve this.

The Working Group does not require the exhaustion of local remedies. However, its purpose is not to replace national courts. This broadens its jurisdiction, as it allows the Group to bypass governments that may be stalling procedure.

Detention in itself does not necessarily violate human rights. Therefore, the Working Group must distinguish between lawful exercise of police power, and detention so lacking in lawful basis or otherwise unreasonable, that it must be considered arbitrary.

Individual complaints and urgent appeals

Individual complaints

The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention is unique in that its mandate expressly provides for the consideration of individual complaints. The Working Group is the only non-treaty-based UN human rights mechanism to investigate and decide individual complaints. Individuals anywhere in the world are therefore able to petition the Working Group for consideration. The Group acts on information submitted to it by individuals directly, their families, or through representatives of Non-governmental organisations.

The Working Group then sends communications to the Governments concerned, to clarify or bring attention to the case. The Government is invited to respond to the allegations within 60 days, with its view on the issue. The Working Group then sends the reply to the source of the allegations, requesting more information. This process allows the Group to remain neutral in the information-gathering process.

The Working Group has identified detention or imprisonment as arbitrary if it falls into one of the following categories;
 Imposed without any legal basis
 Imposed because of the exercise of human rights 
 Imposed in violation of the principle of fair trial
 Prolonged administrative custody imposed on asylum seekers, immigrants or refugees
 Based on illegal discriminatory grounds

Examples of this can include continued detention after the completion of a sentence, denial of the exercise of fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, violations of the right to a fair trial, asylum and immigration claims, or detention based on ethnicity; religion; sexual orientation, etc.

Upon receiving information under this adversary procedure, the Working Group then adopts one of the following approaches;

 If the individual concerned has been released, the Group may still decide to formulate an opinion on whether or not the deprivation of liberty was arbitrary
 The Group may find that the deprivation of liberty is not arbitrary, and will state an opinion as such
 The Group may seek further information from the individual or the Government
 If further information is unable to be sought, the Group may file the case subject to further confirmation
 The Group may decide that the arbitrary deprivation of liberty has been established, state an opinion to that effect, and make recommendations to the Government. These are then communicated to the Government. The opinion requests that the state takes the necessary steps to remedy the situation in order to bring it into conformity. The fulfilment of this request is often achieved by the release of the individual.

Upon evaluating contradicting evidence, such as between an individual claiming arbitrary deprivation of liberty and a government, the Working Group use a standard of 'convincing evidence', as opposed to evidence beyond a reasonable doubt. The informal nature of the Working Group can strengthen the position of the individual represented, by easing the objective burden of proof on them.

Urgent appeals

If the Working Group receives information that raises concern about the immediate wellbeing of an individual, then it may, at its discretion, pursue an urgent action. The source must provide sufficiently reliable information that the continuation of deprivation poses significant threat to the psychological or physical wellbeing to the individual. The alleged situation may be time-sensitive in relation to loss of life or deportation. Rapid communication is sought with diplomats, such as the Foreign Minister (or equivalent). The Working Group request immediate action to ensure the detained person's right to life, as well as physical and mental integrity are respected. This a purely humanitarian undertaking, and does not prejudice the Working Group's final opinion on whether the deprivation of liberty is indeed arbitrary.

Advisory procedures

Country visits