[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Devil to the Belt

er he and Bird have any salvage rights to Dekker's ship, while Bird stays on the upper levels and meets up with two female friends of his, Meg and Sal. Ben returns to say they have a chance of getting Dekker's ship, because it didn't belong to a company, but was owned by Dekker and his partner Cory.

Dekker is in custody, being questioned by the authorities, who sedate him whenever he becomes distressed. They ask him what happened, and eventually he reveals that they were prospecting inside their registered zone and found a 1km-long ore-dense asteroid, even though most of the asteroids that rich have long since been mined to dust by the company. Cory goes on a space walk to check it out, and Dekker monitors her life signs while keeping track of the time with his watch, and then a driver comes towards, a driver not showing up on the official company charts, and doesn't slow down even when Dekker tries to hail them. He's been fretting about the time and his watch because the timer on Cory's suit wasn't reliable, so he was in charge of monitoring the time for her.

William Payne, a company executive, is tasked with handling the case and avoiding bad publicity for the company, such as would be generated by reports of an unauthorised driver killing a freerunning miner. Then bureaucratic failures allow word of Cory's death to reach her mother, a powerful politician on Mars, and she accuses Dekker of kidnapping and killing her daughter so he could inherit the other half of their ship. The police question Dekker about what happened, suggest he made up the presence of a driver. 

Ben Pollard discovers that one of the asteroids he and Bird tagged as ore-rich had lost its tag before Big Mama could pay him and Bird for the claim. Then he finds the police have been searching his room, and Meg and Sal's room next door, though the police have yet to discover the datacard containing maps of that region of space, which he illegally took a copy of on the ship instead of wiping them from memory.

Bird thinks about the fact that drivers are out there extracting ore from the asteroids and then throwing it towards the refinery so fast that it's dangerous for any craft to get in the way, so it makes no sense that the driver that was on Ben and Bird's charts they were given to check out the distress beacon was not on the charts Dekker had.

The company wants to silence Dekker, avoid any publicity, whereas Cory's mother wants him prosecuted for her daughter's death.

Sal reveals to Meg that Ben kept a datacard with charts from the ship, and that Sal had revealed its existence to other friends of hers on the Base, who now want a copy of it. Those friends are Shepherds, from an organisation that protests against the company, and they're also interested in Dekker's case.

The company keeps pressuring Dekker to sign a release form without letting him speak to a lawyer. They persuade him to sign a form that looks like an insurance claim and that lets them take away his license as a freerunner, on medical grounds. Ben bribes a corporate contact to expedite his and Bird's claim to Dekker's ship, on the basis that he and Bird have been waiting too long for the police to release their own ship. This gets their ship, the Trinidad, released at last, and then they get ownership of Dekker's ship, though Bird feels bad that Dekker's being kept in hospital and has lost his license, especially when Ben wants to claim against Dekker's account for his and Bird's expenses.

The authorities persuade Dekker to sign a form stating their findings that it was a catastrophic malfunction on the ship that caused the crash, not Dekker's fault but also not the company's fault, and the doctor tells him the driver was nowhere near. Then Dekker is released from hospital, and finally discovers his pilot's license has been revoked, and then that he has lost ownership of the ship.

Dekker goes to confront Bird, wanting his ship back, and then wanting the log from his ship, but Bird tells him the authorities already wiped it. Dekker protests about his situation but Bird quietens him down, and Meg, whose dress and hairstyle reminds Dekker of the radicals he'd hung out with before he got arrested and was put in contact with Cory via an official pen pals scheme.

References 

2000 fiction books
Alliance–Union universe
Military science fiction novels
Science fiction book series by C. J. Cherryh
Fiction about asteroid mining