[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dimitri Kitsikis

Dimitri Kitsikis (; 2 June 1935 – 28 August 2021) was a Greek Philosopher, Turkologist and Sinologist, as well as a Professor of International Relations and Geopolitics. He also published poetry in French and Greek.

Life
Dimitri Kitsikis was a Turkologist and Sinologist Professor of International Relations and Geopolitics at the University of Ottawa in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada since 1970, Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada; he received his doctoral degree in 1963 from the Sorbonne, Paris, under the supervision of Pierre Renouvin. He has been named one of the "three top geopolitical thinkers worldwide, Karl Haushofer, Halford Mackinder and Dimitri Kitsikis". While pursuing his doctoral studies in Paris, he worked from 1960 to 1962 as a research associate at the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva. He belonged to a notable Greek Orthodox family of intellectuals and acclaimed professionals of 19th-century Greece. He held both French and Canadian citizenships, in addition to his Greek citizenship.

His father, Nicolas Kitsikis (1887–1978), rector of the Polytechnic School in Athens, the most famous civil engineer of Greece, was a senator and an MP. His uncle, Konstantinos Kitsikis (1893–1969), a celebrated architect, Nicolas' younger brother, was also a professor at the Athens Polytechnic School. His grandfather, a chief justice, Dimitri Kitsikis senior (1850–1898), had settled in Athens, in 1865, from Lesbos, his native island and was married to Cassandra (Κασσάνδρα), the sister of a member of the Greek Parliament, Dimitri Hatsopoulos (Δημήτρης Χατσόπουλος), 1844–1913, born in Karpenisi.

His mother, Beata Kitsikis née Petychakis (Μπεάτα Πετυχάκη), was born in Herakleion, Crete, from a wealthy Cretan family and Greek Italian nobles from Trieste of mixed Roman Catholic and Orthodox origin. Her father, Emmanuel Petychakis founded a beverage production plant in Cairo, Egypt and her stepfather Aristidis Stergiadis was the High Commissioner of Greece in Smyrna (Izmir) from 1919 to 1922.

During the Greek civil war, at the age of 12, he was sent to a boarding school in Paris, by Octave Merlier, the head of the French Institute in Athens, because his mother had been condemned to death as a communist fighter. He stayed in France for 23 years with his British wife Anne Hubbard, the daughter of a chief justice, whom he had married in Scotland in 1955, with his first two children, Tatiana and Nicolas. He was expelled from the French University for his active participation as a Maoist in the French student revolt of May 1968. Since 1958, Dimitri Kitsikis had traveled to the P.R. of China where he became a committed Maoist. He was then promoted to associate and later to full professor, after being invited to Canada in 1970 by the University of Ottawa. Since then, he has been living and working in Ottawa as well as in Athens, with his second wife, Ada (Αδαμαντία) Nikolarou, whom he married in 1975, the daughter of a farmer from the historic Byzantine town of Mystras, near Sparta and with whom he has two more children, Dr. Agis Ioannis Kitsikis, Swiss Re Head for Canada and Kranay Kitsikis-De Leonardis. He was an admirer of the Byzantine Empire. Kitsikis was thus a Panhellenist, a cosmopolitan Greek, holding Greek citizenship, in addition to French and Canadian ones.

Since he was a child he had an idée fixe: He wanted not only to reconcile Greeks and Turks, but also to unite them into a Greek Turkish Confederation which would (to an extent) be a reincarnation of the Byzantine/Ottoman Empires; thus filling the political, cultural and economic vacuum that's left behind by their absence in the East Mediterranean region. A devout Orthodox Christian, he came to sympathise with the Turkish religion of Alevi–Bektashism and sought to ally it with Orthodoxy, in order to form a basis for a future political union between Athens and Ankara. Believing in the collaboration of religious communities, as in the millet system of the Ottoman Empire, he worked closely with Shia Muslims in Iran, Jews in Israel and Hindu vaishnavs in India. His elder son Nicolas has been a Vaishnav since 1984 and lives with his Hindu wife in the Vaishnav community of Gainesville, Florida. Although a member of the official Church of Greece, he always sympathised with the Old-Calendarist movement, the adherents of which reject the Church's use of the Gregorian (New) calendar and maintain a traditionalist attitude towards Christian life and worship. As Orthodoxy prevailed over the heresy of Iconoclasm in the 9th century and restored the use of the icon in Christian worship, he stood convinced that the Old Calendar will once again be adopted by those Orthodox Churches which rejected it in the earlier part of the 20th century.