[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina

of the Final Act of Helsinki, and the Paris Charter for a new Europe".

United States
On June 28, 1991, the US Senate voted a resolution sponsored by Senators Jesse Helms (R-NC) and Larry Pressler (R-SD), members of the US Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, which recommended the US government to

 support the right to self-determination of the people of Moldova and Northern Bukovina, occupied by the Soviets, and to draft a decision to this end;
 support the future efforts of the Government of Moldova to negotiate, if it desires so, a peaceful reunification of Moldova and Northern Bukovina with Romania, as established in the Treaty of Paris (1920), respecting the existing norms of international law and principle 1 of the Helsinki Act.

In the clauses of this Senate resolution it has been stated, among other things, that "(...) The armed forces of the Soviet Union invaded the Kingdom of Romania and occupied Eastern Moldova, Northern Bukovina and Hertsa Region. (...) The annexation was prepared beforehand in a Secret Agreement to a Non-Aggression Treaty signed by the Governments of the Soviet Union and the German Reich on August 23, 1939. (...) Between 1940 and 1953 hundreds of thousand of Romanian from Moldova and Northern Bukovina were deported by the USSR to Central Asia and Siberia (...)."

Modern Moldova
 Mihai Ghimpu, interim president of Moldova in 2010, has decreed June 28, 1940, as the Soviet Occupation Day. The move was met with disapproval and calls for the decree's revocation inside the ruling coalition and for Ghimpu's resignation by the opposition parties. Dorin Chirtoacă, mayor of Chișinău and member of the same party as Ghimpu, ordered the erection of a memorial stone in the National Assembly Square, in front of the cabinet building, where a Lenin monument used to stand. The members of the coalitions argued that the time has not come for such a decree and that it would only help the communists win more votes. The Academy of Sciences of Moldova declared that "in the view of recent disagreements regarding June 28, 1940 [...] we must take action and inform the public opinion about the academic community views". The academy declared: "Archival documents and historical research of international experts shows that the annexation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina was designed and built by Soviet Command as a military occupation of these territories. Ordinance of Interim President Michael Ghimpu reflects, in principle, the historical truth." The Constitutional Court cancelled Ghimpu's decree on July 12, 2010.
 On June 30, 2010, First Vlad Filat Cabinet decided to create the Museum of Victims of Communism and Vlad Filat opened the museum on July 6, 2010.
 The Party of Communists of the Republic of Moldova, as well as the Party of Socialists of the Republic of Moldova still regard the date of 28 June 1940 as the day of the Moldovan liberation from the Romanian occupation

See also
 European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism
 Declaration on Crimes of Communism
 Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism
 Vilnius Declaration
 Comparison of Nazism and Stalinism
 Soviet occupation of Romania

Notes

References

 
 
 Mikhail Meltyukhov, Stalin's Missed Chance

Further reading
 Read, A., & Fisher, D. (1988). Deadly Embrace: Hitler, Stalin and the Nazi-Soviet Pact, 1939-1941. W W Norton & Co.
 Rieber, A. J. (2022). Stalin as Warlord. Yale University Press.
 Sontag, R. J., & Beddie, J. S. (Eds.). (2003). Nazi Soviet Relations, 1939–1941: Documents From The Archives Of The German Foreign Office. University Press of the Pacific.
 Treptow, K. W. (2022). Romania and World War II. Center for Romanian Studies.

External links

 "Molotov–Ribbentrop pact", from Wikisource
 "Romanian Army in the Second World War"
 International Commission on the Holocaust in Romania: Final Report (2004)
 The June/July 1940 Romanian Withdrawal from Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina and its Consequences on Interethnic Relations in Romania
  "Text of Litvinov-Titulescu pact"
  "Joachim von Ribbentrop to Viaceslav Molotov, regarding of Bessarabia and Bukovina, June 25, 1940"
  "The Ultimatum notes and Romanian responses"
 

 
Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic
Romania in World War II
History of Chernivtsi Oblast
History of Budjak
Moldova in World War II
June 1940 events in Romania
July 1940 events in Romania
1940 in the Soviet Union
1940 in international relations
Battles and operations of the Eastern Front of World War II
Bessarabian and Northern Bukovina
Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina
Bessarabia
Ultimata
Bessarabia
Romania–Soviet Union relations
Wars involving the Soviet Union
June 1940 events
July 1940 events
Attacks in Moldova