[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Singaporean passport

e or high-net-worth tourists.

b) The e-gate can only be used after first-time arrival and registration at the manual immigration counter. Singapore passport holders may use e-gates at Sultan Iskandar Building and Sultan Abu Bakar Complex in Johor, and also at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport.

c) APC facility for Singapore passport holders only available at Suvarnabhumi Airport and passports are still stamped upon exiting APC.

d) The Smart Gates at Dubai Airport can only be used after the first-time arrival and registration at the manual immigration touchpoint in Dubai.

Dual citizenship

Dual citizenship is strictly prohibited by the Singapore government. A dual citizen may have acquired citizenship by birth in a foreign country, by descent from a foreign citizen parent, or by registration. Singapore citizens who voluntarily and intentionally acquire citizenship of a foreign country after the age of 18 may be deprived of their Singapore citizenship by the Government. Foreigners who naturalise as Singapore citizens are required to renounce all foreign citizenships. Persons who are born outside of Singapore and have at least one parent who is a Singapore citizen may register with a Singapore consulate within a year to acquire Singapore citizenship by descent. However, such persons who acquire foreign citizenship (by birth in a jus soli country or naturalisation in another country at an early age) must choose one citizenship before reaching 22 years of age.

Singapore passports issued to dual citizens have their maximum validity capped at up to their 22nd birthday. They can be renewed for the usual 5 year validity free of cost after renunciation of foreign citizenship and completion of the Oath of Renunciation, Allegiance and Loyalty (ORAL) before reaching 22 years of age.

National Service issues
All male citizens are required to be conscripted for two years as National Service (NS). Previously, the Singapore government had a policy of limiting the validity of the passport for boys aged 11 and above. Before travel, they had to apply for a 9-month extension of their passports. Such extensions were added with a rubber stamp. The Singapore government has stated that the objective of such exit control measures is to deter NS-evasion, and that these measures serve as a "psychological reminder" of the citizen's NS obligations.

Since the new biometric passport does not permit such modifications, a decision was made by the Ministry of Defence to do away with limited-validity passports. Exit permits are still required for overseas trips which last longer than twelve months.

References

External links

 Issuing of Singapore passports
 History of the Singapore passport From passport-collector.com

Passports by country
Government of Singapore
Singaporean nationality law
Foreign relations of Singapore