[Source: PubMed]

34. Prog Food Nutr Sci. 1992;16(2):163-79.

Women's workload and its impact on their health and nutritional status.

Lukmanji Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Tanzania Food and Nutrition Centre, Dar es Salaam.

This paper highlights various issues in relation to the workload of women in 
developing countries and its impact on health and nutritional status. The 
determining factors in women's workload and work-time and the methods employed 
for assessment are described. The drawbacks of the methods used and the 
resulting inconsistencies in the data are reviewed. How women are subjected to 
different health stresses owing to their productive and reproductive roles has 
been examined under three categories of work: economic, domestic and 
agricultural. The interaction of women's workload and health is complex and 
multifactorial owing to variations in the environment and socio-economic 
conditions within developing countries. There is a critical need to re-examine 
the assumptions existing about women's workload in programmes aimed at reducing 
work-time and workload of women in developing countries.

PIP: The methodology of a variety of studies assessing the impact of women;s 
workload on their health and nutrition is critically reviewed. The following 
aspects of women's work have been assessed: 1) energy cost and duration of 
activities of women combined with energy expenditure and energy intake, 2) 
energy cost of activities and energy expenditure and 3) duration of activities. 
Women are subjected to different health stresses from economic, domestic, and 
agricultural work. Energy expenditure or the metabolic rate of resting and the 
duration of activities often has been measured by indirect calorimetry using 
either Douglas Bag or Kofirany Michaelis respirometer or Max-Planck 
respirometer. Measurement methods of energy intake have varied vis-a-vis female 
farmers, carpet weavers, or pregnant and lactating mothers. Data collection on 
food and energy intake occurred via 1) weighing and recording food intake in 
surveys and 2) food intake by the 24-hour recall questionnaire method. In parts 
of East Africa, women work 16 hours a day. In a Tanzanian village, women work 11 
hours during the nonfarming season and almost 14 hours during the farming 
season. Women contribute more than 40% of agricultural labor in 52 developing 
countries and more than 50% in 24 of them. In Gambia, the energy intake of 
pregnant and lactating women varied from 1250 kcal/day to 1489 kcal/day in the 
wet season to 1680 kcal/day during the dry season. The energy intake of pregnant 
female farmers in rural Tanzania was markedly less than their energy 
expenditure. Low energy intakes among female farmers which led to weight loss 
were observed during the rainy season of heavy agricultural work. In Kenya, 709% 
of all trips for water collection are made by females over 15 years old as 
compared to 25% by males in the corresponding age group. On a global basis, 42% 
of the female population over age 15 is in the labor force, and these women 
comprise more than a third of the total labor force. It is crucial to re-examine 
the assumptions about women's workload in programs that seek to reduce the 
work-time and workload of women in developing countries.

PMID: 1496119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]