[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# December 1977

astien Chabal, French rugby union player with 62 caps for the France national team; in Valence, Drôme département 
Matthias Schoenaerts, Belgian film and TV actor, 2014 winner of the César Award for Most Promising Actor; in Antwerp
Elsa Benítez, Mexican model and TV host; in Hermosillo, Sonora state

December 9, 1977 (Friday)
In one of the most violent games in the National Basketball Association (NBA) in the U.S., Rudy Tomjanovich of the Houston Rockets was seriously injured by a single punch by Kermit Washington of the Los Angeles Lakers. Tomjanovich was struck so hard that besides fracturing his skull and having a broken jaw and bone, he leaked blood and spinal fluid while unconscious on the basketball court, and he was placed in the intensive care unit of the Centinela Hospital in Houston.Washington was fined $10,000 and suspended from NBA play by Commissioner Larry O'Brien for at least 60 days (keeping him out for 26 games). The incident would be the basis of a book by sportswriter John Feinstein, The Punch: One Night, Two Lives, and the Fight That Changed Basketball Forever.
The U.S. and Mexico made their first exchange of prisoners. At 9:07 in the morning, a chartered Texas International Airways DC-9 departed from San Diego, California with 36 Mexicans (11 from Texas state prisons and 25 from federal prisons). After landing in Mexico City, the DC-9 took aboard 61 Americans (35 men and 26 women) who had been in Mexican jails, along with an 18-month-old girl whose mother had given birth while incarcerated, and the aircraft landed in San Diego at 5:15 in the afternoon. Once in the U.S., the 61 Americans were transferred to other prisons. Most of the 235 American prisoners who qualified for a return to the U.S. had been convicted of drug trafficking or possession, but seven had been convicted of murder.
Died: 
Nazir Ghory, 76, Indian film comedian who, with Manohar Dixit, had been part of the team of Ghory and Dixit, described as "the Indian Laurel and Hardy"
Barbara Mitchell, 48, English TV actress known for Beryl's Lot and For the Love of Ada, died of breast cancer.

December 10, 1977 (Saturday)
Voting was held for Australia's House of Representatives. The Liberal/National Country Coalition, led by Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser lost seats but kept a slightly reduced majority, defeating the Australian Labor Party (ALP) and its leader, former Prime Minister Gough Whitlam. Consequently, Whitlam resigned as ALP leader after holding the job for nearly 11 years, and would be replaced by former Treasurer Bill Hayden.
The first college entrance exams since 1966, in the People's Republic of China, were held for 1.5 million applicants across the Communist nation. Entrance exams had been banned during the Cultural Revolution as part of a campaign against intellectuals.
Born: Andrea Henkel, German biathlete and Olympic gold medalist; in Ilmenau, East Germany
Died: Adolph Rupp, 76, American college basketball coach for the University of Kentucky who guided his teams to four NCAA titles, later inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame

December 11, 1977 (Sunday)

Soyuz 26, with cosmonauts Yuri Romanenko and Georgy Grechko, was launched into orbit by the Soviet Union and docked with the Salyut 6 space station at 6:02 Moscow time.
The NFL's Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who had lost all 14 games of their first season and lost the first 12 of the 1977 season, finally had a victory, defeating the New Orleans Saints, 33 to 14.
Born: James Chau, English-born Chinese journalist and former anchor of the English-language China Central Television News in the People's Republic of China; in London
Died: Saida Menebhi, Moroccan poet and political prisoner, died on the 35th day of her hunger strike in Casablanca.

December 12, 1977 (Monday)
The African nation of Kenya banned the sale of skins and trophies of all endangered wildlife, following up on a May 1977 ban on all hunting.
A civilian airliner from Israel was allowed for the first time to land in an Arab nation, as an Airline Arkia BAC-111 jet brought 64 journalists to Cairo on a flight from Tel Aviv to cover the December 14 opening of the Cairo peace talks.
Born: Adam Saitiev, Russian Chechen freestyle wrestler, 1999 and 2002 world champion at 76 and 84 kg respectively, 2000 Olympic gold medalist at 85 kg; in Khasavyurt, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union
Died: 
Clementine Churchill, 82, life peer in the British House of Lords and widow of Sir Winston Churchill
Frank Boucher, 76, Canadian ice hockey player and NHL star, inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame