[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Burnet R. Maybank

urt. Maybank won a special election to fill Byrnes's US Senate seat in September 1941, defeating former governor Olin D. Johnston with 56.6 percent of the vote. In 1942 Maybank was elected to the full six-year term, and in 1948 he was reelected without opposition, and served until his death in 1954.

Maybank was a powerful senator, part of the southern Democratic block. Maybank served as chairman of the Committee on Banking and Currency and as co-chairman of the Joint Committee on Defense Production. As chair of the Subcommittee on Independent Offices, under the Appropriations Committee, Maybank provided critical support to continue the U.S. nuclear weapons program in the early 1950s. He introduced the "Maybank Amendment", which was tacked onto the 1953 Defense Appropriations Bill. The amendment relieved the Department of Defense from federal legislation to target a percentage of its expenditures to high unemployment areas. Shortly before his death, Maybank was voted as one of the "20 Most Influential Americans" by Fortune magazine.

Maybank died of a heart attack at his summer home in Flat Rock, North Carolina in 1954. He was interred in Magnolia Cemetery in Charleston. Several dignitaries attended including then-Governor James F. Byrnes, Strom Thurmond, Ernest F. Hollings, thirteen United States senators, congressmen, and state and local officials. Maybank's sudden death two months before election day threw open the 1954 Senate election in South Carolina. Strom Thurmond won as a write-in candidate against the nominee chosen by Democratic party leaders to replace Maybank.

Following Maybank's death, numerous places throughout the state were named in his honor including Maybank Highway, the Burnet Maybank Bridge, and the Maybank Hall at the College of Charleston.

Legacy
Bertie Bowman, who became a hearing coordinator for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, published his memoir, Step by Step: A Memoir of Hope, Friendship, Perseverance, and Living the American Dream, in 2009. He noted the personal support he had received from Senator Maybank. A poor black farmer's son, he went to Washington from South Carolina in 1944 as a runaway at age 14 and went to Senator Maybank. He got the youth a janitor's position, and took a personal interest in Bowman (who then had no family in Washington). Gradually the young black man advanced while working for the Senate, as he describes in his memoir. In March 2009 Senator Maybank's granddaughter, Elizabeth Parker, traveled to D.C. to meet with Bowman for the first time. A month later, more of the Maybank family met Bowman and his wife, Elaine, in Charleston.

Vice President Joe Biden mentioned Maybank at the dedication ceremony for the Ernest Hollings Special Collections Library at the University of South Carolina on July 23, 2010.  He said,

You know, an old governor of yours, Burnet Maybank, once wrote an essay entitled, "Who Is the South Carolinian?" And here's what it said. He said, there's a deal—there is a deal of kindness about him, describing the South Carolinian. He feels favored when asked for personal assistance. A neighborly spirit prompts him to render service with a scorn for remuneration.

See also

 List of United States Congress members who died in office (1950–99)

References

Sources

 Dictionary of American Biography
 Cann, Marvin. "Burnet Rhett Maybank and the New Deal in South Carolina from 1931 to 1941". PhD dissertation, University of North Carolina, 1967
 U.S. Congress. Memorial Addresses. 83rd Cong., 2nd sess., 1954. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1955.

External links
SCIway Biography of Burnet Rhett Maybank
NGA Biography of Burnet Rhett Maybank
Burnet Maybank Senatorial Papers

1899 births
1954 deaths
United States Navy personnel of World War I
College of Charleston alumni
Democratic Party governors of South Carolina
University of South Carolina trustees
Mayors of Charleston, South Carolina
Democratic Party United States senators from South Carolina
Businesspeople from Charleston, South Carolina
Military personnel from Charleston, South Carolina
20th-century American politicians
People from Flat Rock, Henderson County, North Carolina
20th-century American businesspeople
20th-century American Episcopalians
Burials at Magnolia Cemetery (Charleston, South Carolina)