[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ashbel P. Willard

herners should maintain the right to determine the slavery issue for their selves. Unable to run for reelection, Willard helped ensure the nomination of Thomas A. Hendricks for governor in 1860 to run against Republican Henry S. Lane, who had Oliver Morton as a Lieutenant Governor.

Death and legacy

Willard had been in poor health for some years, and it began to deteriorate quickly in 1860. That year the Democratic Party was struggling with internal problems, and the nation was on the brink of Civil War. Willard attended the state Democratic convention in Columbus, his last political appearance in the state. His party was so wracked with problems, it was proposed by a party member that the crowd give three cheers for the Republican candidates, who they believed would save the Union. Willard quickly ascended to the podium and rebuked the crowd and begged for unity. His speech was so forceful, he quickly became more ill than ever. His lungs began hemorrhaging, but his doctors were able to stop the bleeding. Shortly after, Willard traveled to St. Paul, Minnesota, on a tour to promote goodwill among the states. Willard died from internal bleeding while giving a speech there on October 4, 1860. He was the first Governor of Indiana to die in office. He was laid in state in Indianapolis and his bier was attended by thousands, and buried in New Albany.  His grave was unmarked until May 30, 1928, when the State of Indiana erected a gravestone after they were petitioned by the Floyd County Historical Society to appropriate $500.00 to erect a gravestone.

Willard was succeeded by his Lieutenant Governor Abram Hammond who fulfilled the final three months of his term. Willard's death had profound negative consequences for the state Democratic Party, who lost the election primarily because they were unable to field a new candidate very quickly, although it has been debated whether they could have won. Although he helped keep the Democrats in control of the General Assembly going into the Civil War, things quickly feel apart for his party. As the primary enforcer of party unity, the duty fell to Jesse D. Bright, who was soon caught up in scandal. Many members of the party joined the Republicans and two decades would pass before his party would regain power.

See also

List of governors of Indiana
Bust of Governor Ashbel Parsons Willard at Indiana Statehouse

References
Notes

Bibliography

External links
 Biography and portrait from Indiana State Library
Ashbel Willard at FindAGrave

1820 births
1860 deaths
Democratic Party governors of Indiana
People from Oneida County, New York
Methodists from Indiana
People from New Albany, Indiana
Democratic Party members of the Indiana House of Representatives
Lieutenant Governors of Indiana
19th-century American politicians
Hamilton College (New York) alumni
Democratic Party Indiana state senators
American lawyers