[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of Terminator video games

ilm and Judgment Day, during the war between humans and the A.I. known as Legion. It was in development by Cats Who Play and will be published by Slitherine Software, in collaboration with Skydance.

Non-film based games
Several games, not based on any particular film, have been released since 1992.

 The Terminator 2029 is a DOS action-adventure game developed and published by Bethesda Softworks in 1992. 
 RoboCop Versus The Terminator was released for a number of platforms beginning in 1993. It is based on the comic book series of the same name.
 The Terminator: Rampage is a first-person shooter game released for the PC by Bethesda Softworks in 1993. It is the third Terminator game made by Bethesda, following The Terminator and The Terminator 2029.
 The Terminator: Future Shock is a first-person shooter game developed and published by Bethesda Softworks in 1995.
 Skynet is a computer game, initially intended as a multiplayer patch for The Terminator: Future Shock, before being adapted into a standalone product. The game was developed by Bethesda Softworks and released in 1996.
 The Terminator: Dawn of Fate was developed by Paradigm Entertainment and published by Infogrames in 2002.
  is a shoot 'em up mobile phone game developed and published by In-Fusio in 2004.
  is a mobile phone platform game developed by Kiloo and published by In-Fusio in 2006. The game takes place in the year 2020. The player assumes the role of a Terminator. The objective of the game is to prevent scientists from using leftover Terminator parts in their experiments.
 Terminator: Resistance is a first-person shooter action video game released in November 2019. The game primarily focuses on the original future war that is depicted in The Terminator and Terminator 2: Judgment Day.
 A Terminator survival game, to be developed by Nacon, was announced in July 2022. It will feature an original story set between Judgment Day and the formation of the human resistance.

Terminator characters have also made appearances in non-Terminator games.
 The Terminator appears in Mortal Kombat 11 as a guest playable character voiced by Chris Cox, with his default appearance based on the "Carl" unit in Terminator: Dark Fate. The character became available as downloadable content in 2019, either through an individual purchase or the Kombat Pack 1 bundle.
 Sarah Connor and the Terminator are featured in the 2019 video game Gears 5 as playable characters in the multiplayer portion of the game.
 A Terminator endoskeleton was featured as a hunter in the asymmetrical online shooter game, Deathgarden, as downloadable content following its 2019 relaunch as Deathgarden: Blood Harvest.
 In 2020, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Breakpoint released an online crossover game event featuring missions and enemies from the original Terminator film.
 In 2021, the Terminator and Sarah Connor became playable characters in the online game Fortnite.
In 2022, the Terminator and T-1000 were added to Call of Duty: Warzone as operator skins.

References

External links

Bethesda Softworks games
Terminator
Pinball machines based on films
 
Post-apocalyptic video games
Video games set in Los Angeles