[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2002 Alabama gubernatorial election

The 2002 Alabama gubernatorial election was held on November 5. The race pitted incumbent Democratic Governor Don Siegelman against Republican Representative Bob Riley. As of 2023, this is the last time the Governor’s office in Alabama changed partisan control.

The result was an extremely narrow victory for Riley. The certified results showed Riley with 672,225 votes to Siegelman's 669,105, a difference of 3,120 votes, or 0.23% of the 1,367,053 votes cast. The close and controversial election was marked by high turnout.

Primaries

Both of the principal contestants in the general election campaign faced primary-election opponents whose opposition turned out to be less than expected.  The primaries were held on June 4, 2002.

Democratic Party

Candidates
Charles Bishop, Commissioner of Agriculture and Industries
Blake W. Harper III, businessman
Gladys Riddle, member of the Alabama Board of Pardons and Paroles
Don Siegelman, incumbent Governor
Mark "Rodeo Clown" Townsend

Results

Republican Party

Candidates
Tim James, businessman and son of former Governor Fob James
Bob Riley, U.S. Representative
Steve Windom, Lieutenant Governor

Results

Campaign
The closeness of the general election contest was reflected in its intensity and fervor. At one point in the campaign, a clash erupted between the two principal campaigns over disclosure of the identities of large contributors to the Riley campaign. President George W. Bush appeared in Alabama at a July event, and a private reception with a $50,000 admission was held to benefit the Riley campaign. Riley's campaign initially refused to identify the donors attending the event.  Later, under pressure from the Siegelman campaign, Riley called on the national Republican Party, which had hosted the event, to release the names of donors.  The Riley campaign was subjected to editorial criticism when the voluminous reports released made it difficult to trace the sources of donations from the event to Riley.

During the campaign, actor and National Rifle Association president Charlton Heston came to Alabama to campaign for Republican congressional candidates. While in the state, Heston released a written statement endorsing Siegelman, despite the fact that Riley had made a point of being seen in public with Heston.  Spokesmen for both Riley and the Alabama Republican Party issued statements insinuating that Siegelman had taken advantage of Heston's recently diagnosed Alzheimer's disease to secure the endorsement. After a firestorm of criticism from the NRA and editorial pages, the Republican spokesmen apologized to Heston, but not to Siegelman.

Riley received the endorsements of The Birmingham News, the Mobile Press-Register, the Business Council of Alabama, and the Auburn University Trustee Improvement PAC, an alumni group which opposed Siegelman's choices for trustees at the school (Siegleman re-appointed controversial trustee Bobby Lowder, notorious for constant interference in the university's affairs). In addition to the NRA, Siegelman was endorsed by The Montgomery Advertiser, The Anniston Star, The Tuscaloosa News, and various labor groups, including the Alabama State Employees Association. Siegelman was also endorsed by Alabama Education Association executive secretary Paul Hubbert, although the Association itself remained officially neutral.

The campaign set new spending records for an Alabama gubernatorial race. Even before the final weeks of the campaign, the candidates had raised over $17,000,000.  Riley, who raised and spent over twice the sum Siegelman raised, was primarily backed by business groups and insurance companies.  Siegelman received substantial contributions from labor groups and affiliates of the Alabama Education Association. Both candidates were the beneficiaries of national party funding, and contributions from political action committees made donations to both candidates difficult to trace.

Polls taken in the final days of the campaign reflected the eventual close outcome.

Predictions

Results

Counties that flipped from Democratic to Republican
Clarke (Largest city: Jackson)
Crenshaw (Largest city: Luverne)
Mobile (Largest city: Mobile)
Limestone (Largest city: Athens)
Butler (Largest city: Greenville)
Clay (Largest city: Lineville)
Cleburne (Largest city: Heflin)
Coffee (Largest city: Enterprise)
Cullman (Largest city: Cullman)
Dale (Largest city: Brewton)
Escambia (Largest city: Atmore)
Chambers (Largest city: Valley)
DeKalb (Largest city: Fort Payne)
Henry (Largest city: Headland)
Madison (Largest city: Huntsville)
Lee (Largest city: Auburn)
Marshall (Largest city: Albertville)
Monroe (Largest city: Monroeville)
Morgan (Largest city: Decatur)
Pike (Largest city: Troy)
Randolph (Largest city: Roanoke)
Tallapoosa (Largest city: Alexander City)

Results by congressional district
Despite winning 4 out of 7 congressional districts, Riley lost his old district by around 7% after it was redistricted to become more Democratic.