[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# List of coups and coup attempts

vernment in April, but the successful coup was overturned five days later by U.S. Ambassador Leonard Unger. In August, a second coup was attempted when Defense Minister Phoumi Nosavan tried to take over Vientiane with a training battalion; this was quickly quashed by the Royal Laotian Army's troops.

1965
1965 Bulgarian coup d'état attempt: A conspiracy by officials in the Bulgarian Communist Party and officers in the Bulgarian People's Army to overthrow Todor Zhivkov was uncovered, and foiled before the coup could be carried out.
1965 Algerian coup d'état: After a military coup in Algeria, Defense Minister Colonel Houari Boumedienne took power.
Indonesia: Members of the Indonesian National Armed Forces calling themselves the 30 September Movement began a coup attempt and assassinated six Indonesian Army generals. The attempted coup failed, and was blamed on the Communist Party of Indonesia, which led to a mass purge of actual and suspected members of the party and sympathizers. While who is behind the initial coup is still being debated, Major General Suharto took advantage of the chaos to exile First Indonesian President Sukarno and install a dictatorship that would last until 1998 a couple years later.
Second Mobutu coup in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: Mobutu Sese Seko seized power in a bloodless coup after Parliament twice refused to confirm Évariste Kimba as Prime Minister.
1965 Burundian coup d'état attempt: A group of ethnic Hutu officers from the Burundian military wounded the Prime Minister of Burundi, but ultimately failed to overthrow the government.
Saint-Sylvestre coup d'état in the Central African Republic: Central African Republic army leader Jean-Bédel Bokassa and his military officers staged a coup against the government of President David Dacko.
1965 Laotian coups: Two simultaneous and independent January coups failed. One was led by General Phoumi Nosavan, who had participated in four prior coup attempts against the Royal Lao Government; the other was led by Colonel Bounleuth Saycocie.

1966
Operation Cold Chop in Ghana: The Ghana Armed Forces, led by Colonel Emmanuel Kwasi Kotoka, overthrew Kwame Nkrumah while he was abroad. The National Liberation Council was formed, and Lieutenant General Joseph Arthur Ankrah was installed as chairman.
1966 Upper Voltan coup d'état in Upper Volta (now Burkina Faso): On 3 January, Sangoulé Lamizana overthrew Maurice Yaméogo.
1966 Syrian coup d'état: The ruling National Command of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party were removed from power by a union of the party's Military Committee and the Regional Command, under the leadership of Salah Jadid.
1966 Nigerian coup d'état: In January, mutinous Nigerian soldiers led by Chukwuma Kaduna Nzeogwu and Emmanuel Ifeajuna killed 22 people including the Prime Minister of Nigeria and many senior politicians and Army officers. The General Officer Commanding the Nigerian Army, Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi, was compelled to take control of the government.
Abu Dhabi: Shakhbut bin Sultan Al Nahyan was deposed in a bloodless coup and replaced by his brother, Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan.
1966 Nigerian counter-coup: In a reaction to the January coup, Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi was assassinated, and conspirators appointed Yakubu Gowon as head of state.
Argentine Revolution: President Arturo Illia was overthrown by military forces supporting the leadership of General Juan Carlos Onganía, who became de facto president.
1966 alleged Ceylonese coup d'état attempt (also known as the Bathroom coup): 31 suspects, including the commander of the army, were arrested for allegedly plotting to overthrow the government of Dudley Senanayake. They were later unanimously acquitted.
 1966 Laotian coup d'état: General Thao Ma, who wished to reserve the transports Royal Lao Air Force for strictly military use, was forced into exile by fellow generals angling to use the transports for smuggling opium and gold.
 Saudi Arabia: A coup attempt against King Faisal failed.