[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Genocide of Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia

erman-run camps, Jasenovac specialized in brutal one-on-one violence, such as guards attacking barracks with weapons and throwing the bodies in the trenches. Some historians use a sentence from German sources: “Even German officers and SS men lost their cool when they saw (Ustaše) ways and methods.”

The infamous camp commander Filipović, dubbed fra Sotona ("brother Satan") and the "personification of evil", on one occasion drowned Serb women and children by flooding a cellar. Filipović and other camp commanders (such as Dinko Šakić and his wife Nada Šakić, the sister of Maks Luburić), used ingenious torture. There were throat-cutting contests of Serbs, in which prison guards made bets among themselves as to who could slaughter the most inmates. It was reported that guard and former Franciscan priest Petar Brzica won a contest on 29 August 1942 after cutting the throats of 1,360 inmates. Inmates were tied and hit over the head with mallets and half-alive hung in groups by the Granik ramp crane, their intestines and necks slashed, then dropped into the river. When the Partisans and Allies closed in at the end of the war, the Ustaše began mass liquidations at Jasenovac, marching women and children to death, and shooting most of the remaining male inmates, then torched buildings and documents before fleeing. Many prisoners were victims of rape, sexual mutilation and disembowelment, while induced  cannibalism amongst the inmates also took place. Some survivors testified about drinking blood from the slashed throats of the victims and soap making from human corpses.

Children's concentration camps 

The Independent State of Croatia was the only Axis satellite to have erected camps specifically for children. Special camps for children were those at Sisak, Đakovo and Jastrebarsko, while Stara Gradiška held thousands of children and women. Historian Tomislav Dulić explained that the systematic murder of infants and children, who could not pose a threat to the state, serves as one important illustration of the genocidal character of Ustaša mass killing.

The Holocaust and genocide survivors, including Božo Švarc, testified that Ustaše tore off the children's hands, as well as, “apply a liquid to children’s mouths with brushes”, which caused the children to scream and later die. The Sisak camp commander, aphysician Antun Najžer, was dubbed the "Croatian Mengele" by survivors.

Diana Budisavljević, a humanitarian of Austrian descent, carried out rescue operations and saved more than 15,000 children from Ustaše camps.

List of concentration and death camps 
 Jasenovac (I–IV) — around 100,000 inmates perished there, at least 52,000 Serbs
 Stara Gradiška (Jasenovac V) — more than 12,000 inmates lost their lives, mostly Serbs
 Gospić — between 24,000 and 42,000 inmates died, predominantly Serbs

 Jadovno — between 15,000 and 48,000 Serbs and Jews perished there
 Slana and Metajna — between 4,000 and 12,000 Serbs, Jews and communists died
 Sisak — 6,693 children passed through the camp, mostly Serbs, between 1,152 and 1,630 died
 Danica — around 5,000, mostly Serbs, were transported to the camp, some of them were executed
 Jastrebarsko — 3,336 Serb children passing through the camp, between 449 and 1,500 died
 Kruščica — around 5,000 Jews and Serbs were interred at the camp, while 3,000 lost their lives
 Đakovo — 3,800 Jewish and Serb women and children were interred at the camp, at least 569 died
 Lobor — more than 2,000 Jewish and Serb  women and children were interred, at least 200 died
 Kerestinec — 111 Serbs, Jews and communists were captured, 85 were killed
 Sajmište — the camp at the NDH territory operated by the Einsatzgruppen and since May 1944 by Ustaše; between 20,000 and 23,000  Serbs, Jews, Roma and anti-fascists died here
 Hrvatska Mitrovica — the concentration camp in Sremska Mitrovica

Massacres 

A large number of massacres were committed by the NDH armed forces, Croatian Home Guard (Domobrani) and Ustaše Militia.

The Ustaše Militia was organised in 1941 into five (later 15) 700-man battalions, two railway security battalions and the elite Black Legion and Poglavnik Bodyguard Battalion (later Brigade). They were predominantly recruited among the uneducated population and working class.

Violence against Serbs began in April 1941 and was initially limited in scope, primarily targeting Serb intelligentsia. By July however, the violence became "indiscriminate, widespread and systematic". Massacres of Serbs were focused in mixed areas with large Serb populations for necessity and efficiency.