[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 46]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ffection of this thy young and faithful
friend; and perhaps hereafter, when thou seest an unhappy Christian
groaning in Turkish fetters, thy generosity may make thee think of
Venice.'

"It is impossible to describe the ecstasies or the gratitude of Hamet at
this unexpected deliverance; I will not, therefore, attempt to repeat
what he said to his benefactors; I will only add that he was that day
set free, and Francisco embarked him on board a ship which was going to
one of the Grecian islands, took leave of him with the greatest
tenderness, and forced him to accept a purse of gold to pay his
expenses. Nor was it without the greatest regret that Hamet parted from
his young friend, whose disinterested kindness had thus procured his
freedom; he embraced him with an agony of tenderness, wept over him at
parting, and prayed for every blessing upon his head.

"About six months after this transaction a sudden fire burst forth in
the house of this generous merchant. It was early in the morning, when
sleep is the most profound, and none of the family perceived it till
almost the whole building was involved in flames. The frightened
servants had just time to waken the merchant and hurry him down stairs,
and the instant he was down, the staircase itself gave way and sunk with
a horrid crash into the midst of the fire.

"But if Francisco congratulated himself for an instant upon his escape,
it was only to resign himself immediately after to the most deep
despair, when he found, upon inquiry, that his son, who slept in an
upper apartment, had been neglected in the general tumult, and was yet
amidst the flames. No words can describe the father's agony; he would
have rushed headlong into the fire, but was restrained by his servants;
he then raved in an agony of grief, and offered half his fortune to the
intrepid man who would risk his life to save his child. As Francisco was
known to be immensely rich, several ladders were in an instant raised,
and several daring spirits, incited by the vast reward, attempted the
adventure. The violence of the flames, however, which burst forth at
every window, together with the ruins that fell on every side, drove
them all back; and the unfortunate youth, who now appeared upon the
battlements, stretching out his arms and imploring aid, seemed to be
destined to certain destruction.

"The unhappy father now lost all perception, and sunk down in a state of
insensibility, when, in this dreadful moment of general suspense and
agony, a man rushed through the opening crowd, mounted the tallest of
the ladders with an intrepidity that showed he was resolved to succeed
or perish, and instantly disappeared. A sudden gust of smoke and flame
burst forth immediately after, which made the people imagine he was
lost; when, on a sudden, they beheld him emerge again with the child in
his arms, and descend the ladder without any material damage. A
universal shout of applause now resounded to the skies; but what words
can give an adequate idea of the father's feelings, when, on recovering
his senses, he found his darling miraculously preserved, and safe within
his arms?

"After the first effusions of his tenderness were over, he asked for his
deliverer, and was shown a man of a noble stature, but dressed in mean
attire, and his features were so begrimed with smoke and filth that it
was impossible to distinguish them. Francisco, however, accosted him
with courtesy, and, presenting him with a purse of gold, begged he would
accept of that for the present, and that the next day he should receive
to the utmost of his promised reward. 'No, generous merchant,' answered
the stranger, 'I do not sell my blood.'

"'Gracious heavens!' cried the merchant, 'sure I should know that
voice?--It is----' 'Yes,' exclaimed the son, throwing himself into the
arms of his deliverer, 'it is my Hamet!'

"It was indeed Hamet, who stood before them in the same mean attire
which he had worn six months before, when the first generosity of the
merchant had redeemed him from slavery. Nothing could equal the
astonishment and gratitude of Francisco; but as they were then
surrounded by a large concourse of people, he desired Hamet to go with
him to the house of one of his friends, and when they were alone he
embraced him tenderly, and asked by what extraordinary chance he had
thus been enslaved a second time, adding a kind of reproach for his not
informing him of his captivity.

"'I bless God for that captivity,' answered Hamet, 'since it has given
me an opportunity of showing that I was not altogether undeserving of
your kindness, and of preserving the life of that dear youth, that I
value a thousand times beyond my own. But it is now fit that my generous
patron should be informed of the whole truth. Know, then, that when the
unfortunate Hamet was taken by your galleys, his aged father shared his
captivity--it was his fate which so often made me shed those tear