[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rated-RKO

eamed up with John Morrison, R-Truth, Rey Mysterio Jr., and John Cena to defeat Kane, Ziggler, Sheamus, CM Punk, Drew McIntyre, and Wade Barrett in a 12-man tag team match. On the April 11 episode of Raw, Edge announced his retirement due to a neck injury preventing him from being medically cleared.

Later interactions (2020–2021)
On January 26, 2020, at the Royal Rumble pay-per-view, Edge returned from injury, wrestling for the first time since 2011, then reuniting with Randy Orton to eliminate The O.C. (Luke Gallows and Karl Anderson). The following night on Raw, Orton would interrupt Edge, attacking him with the RKO and then deliver a Con-Chair-To, a move Rated-RKO used in their run as a tag team, thus turning Orton heel in the process. They would face each other in a Last Man Standing match at WrestleMania 36, which was won by Edge and a singles one–on–one match at Backlash, which was won by Orton. Wrestling Observer Newsletter reported that the match was pre-recorded on June 8, while the rest of the Backlash card aired live on June 14. The pre-recorded nature of the Edge vs. Randy Orton match allowed WWE to utilize "unique production techniques and camera angles." One production technique was amplified crowd noise. WWE also used the classic Madison Square Garden microphone that was used during WrestleMania I, with previous recordings of the late Howard Finkel doing introductions for both wrestlers. Referee Charles Robinson also wore a classic light blue ref shirt with black bowtie.
WWE then billed the match as "The Greatest Wrestling Match Ever."

The next year, at Royal Rumble, they participated in the Royal Rumble match as the first two entrants, with Edge entering at #1 and Orton entering at #2. Both would last until the final two where Edge eliminated Orton to win the match. Edge subsequently defeated Orton the next night on Raw one last time to end their feud.

Championships and accomplishments
World Wrestling Entertainment
World Tag Team Championship (1 time) – Edge and Randy Orton
WWE Women's Championship (2 times) – Lita

See also 
 RK-Bro

References

External links
Edge's WWE Alumni profile
Randy Orton's WWE profile
Lita's WWE Alumni profile

WWE teams and stables
WWE World Tag Team Champions