[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 45]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ger. But tell me, for I wish to do you good, in what can I
assist you? for my son informs me that you are the prey of continual
regret and sorrow.'

"'Is it wonderful,' answered the Turk, with a glow of generous
indignation that suddenly animated his countenance, 'is it wonderful
that I should pine in silence, and mourn my fate, who am bereft of the
first and noblest present of nature--my liberty?' 'And yet,' answered
the Venetian, 'how many thousands of our nation do you retain in
fetters?'

"'I am not answerable,' said the Turk, 'for the cruelty of my
countrymen, more than you are for the barbarity of yours. But as to
myself, I have never practised the inhuman custom of enslaving my fellow
creatures; I have never spoiled the Venetian merchants of their property
to increase my riches; I have always respected the rights of nature, and
therefore it is the more severe.'----Here a tear started from his eye,
and wetted his manly cheek; instantly however, he recollected himself,
and folding his arm upon his bosom, and gently bowing his head, he
added, 'God is good, and man must submit to his decrees.'

"The Venetian was affected with this appearance of manly fortitude, and
said, 'Hamet, I pity your sufferings, and may perhaps be able to relieve
them. What would you do to regain your liberty?' 'What would I do!'
answered Hamet; 'by the eternal Majesty of Heaven, I would confront
every pain and danger that can appal the heart of man!' 'Nay,' answered
the merchant, 'you will not be exposed to a trial. The means of your
deliverance are certain, provided your courage does not belie your
appearance.' 'Name them! name them!' cried the impatient Hamet; 'place
death before me in every horrid shape, and if I shrink----'

"'Patience,' answered the merchant, 'we shall be observed; but hear me
attentively. I have in this city an inveterate foe, who has heaped upon
me every injury which can most bitterly sting the heart of man. This man
is brave as he is haughty; and I must confess that the dread of his
strength and valour has hitherto deterred me from resenting his insults
as they deserve. Now, Hamet, your look, your form, your words, convince
me that you were born for manly daring. Take this dagger; as soon as the
shades of night involve the city I will myself conduct you to the place
where you may at once revenge your friend and regain your freedom.'

"At this proposal, scorn and shame flashed from the kindling eye of
Hamet, and passion for a considerable time deprived him of the power of
utterance; at length he lifted his arm as high as his chains would
permit, and cried, with an indignant tone, 'Mighty prophet! and are
these the wretches to whom you permit your faithful votaries to be
enslaved! Go, base Christian, and know that Hamet would not stoop to
the vile trade of an assassin for all the wealth of Venice! no! not to
purchase the freedom of all his race!'

"At these words the merchant, without seeming much abashed, told him he
was sorry he had offended him; but that he thought freedom had been
dearer to him than he found it was. 'However,' added he, as he turned
his back, 'you will reflect upon my proposal, and perhaps by to-morrow
you may change your mind.' Hamet disdained to answer; and the merchant
went his way.

"The next day, however, he returned in company with his son, and mildly
accosted Hamet thus: 'The abruptness of the proposal I yesterday made
you might perhaps astonish you, but I am now come to discourse the
matter more calmly with you, and I doubt not, when you have heard my
reasons----'

"'Christian!' interrupted Hamet, with a severe but composed countenance,
'cease at length to insult the miserable with proposals more shocking
than even these chains. If thy religion permit such acts as those, know
that they are execrable and abominable to the soul of every Mohammedan;
therefore, from this moment, let us break off all further intercourse
and be strangers to each other.'

"'No,' answered the merchant, flinging himself into the arms of Hamet,
'let us from this moment be more closely linked than ever! Generous man,
whose virtues may at once disarm and enlighten thy enemies! Fondness for
my son first made me interested in thy fate; but from the moment that I
saw thee yesterday I determined to set thee free; therefore, pardon me
this unnecessary trial of thy virtue, which has only raised thee higher
in my esteem. Francisco has a soul which is as averse to deeds of
treachery and blood as even Hamet himself. From this moment, generous
man, thou art free; thy ransom is already paid, with no other obligation
than that of remembering the affection of this thy young and faithful
friend; and perhaps hereafter, when thou seest an unhappy Christian
groaning in Turkish fetters, thy generosity may make thee think of
Venice.'

"It is impossible to describe the ecstasies or the gratitude of Hamet at
this unexpected deliverance; I will