[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Staffordshire Yeomanry

ar was declared on 4 August 1914, the Staffordshire Yeomanry mobilised at Stafford under the command of Lt-Col Bromley-Davenport The regiment assembled with the North Midland Mounted Brigade (NMMB) and then went with it to its war station at Diss in Norfolk, where it came under 1st Mounted Division.

In accordance with the Territorial and Reserve Forces Act 1907 (7 Edw. 7, c.9) which brought the TF into being, it was intended to be a home defence force for service during wartime and members could not be compelled to serve outside the country. However, on 10 August 1914 the TF was invited to volunteer for overseas service. On 15 August the War Office issued instructions to separate those men who had signed up for Home Service only, and form these into reserve units. On 31 August, the formation of a reserve or 2nd Line unit was authorised for each 1st Line unit where 60 per cent or more of the men had volunteered for Overseas Service. The titles of these 2nd Line units would be the same as the original, but distinguished by a '2/' prefix. In this way duplicate battalions, brigades and divisions were created, mirroring those TF formations being sent overseas. Later, the 2nd Line was prepared for overseas service and a 3rd Line was formed to act as a reserve, providing trained replacements for the 1st and 2nd Line regiments.

1/1st Staffordshire Yeomanry

After more than a year training in Norfolk, 1/1st Staffs Yeomanry was ordered to complete to full war establishment in September 1915, and the following month embarked with 1/1st NMMB for the Mediterranean. The advance party went to Mudros, the base for the Gallipoli campaign, but  the rest of the regiment was ordered to the Salonika Front, then finally was disembarked in Egypt. There 1/1st NMMB became 22nd Mounted Brigade and was sent to join the Western Frontier Force. In December 1916 the brigade joined the Yeomanry Mounted Division in the Egyptian Expeditionary Force (EEF) for the advance into Palestine. It fought in all three battles of Gaza and the Battle of Mughar Ridge. At the Battle of Nebi Samwil and the subsequent Turkish counter-attacks during November 1917 men and horses suffered from the terrible conditions in the Judaean Hills.

The 1/1st Staffs Yeomanry was detached to the Imperial Camel Brigade for operations in the Jordan Valley in April and May 1918 while the Yeomanry Mounted Division was reorganised into 4th Cavalry Division. 1/1st Staffordshire Yeomanry was now the sole British unit with two Indian cavalry regiments constituting 12th Cavalry Brigade. 4th Cavalry Division then undertook a tour of duty in the malarial Jordan Valley during the height of summer, with 1/1st Staffs Yeomanry having to evacuate many casualties suffering from sickness. In September the division secretly moved to the coast with the Desert Mounted Corps (DMC) under the Australian General Harry Chauvel for the Battle of Megiddo. After the opening infantry assault the division broke through with little opposition, and took part in Chauvel's strategic cavalry 'bound', riding  in 34 hours to participate in the Capture of Afulah and Beisan, taking hundreds of prisoners. After a few days' rest, 4th Cavalry Division set off again, linking up with the Arab Northern Army to capture Deraa and then advancing up the Pilgrims' Road to take part in the DMC's encirclement and Capture of Damascus on 1 October. Since 15 September the 1/1st Staffs Yeomanry had marched  and captured 3069 prisoners.

Ravaged by malaria caught in the Jordan Valley (the 1/1st Staffs Yeomanry having been reduced to just 75 men, 200 of them having become casualties), 4th Cavalry Division was too exhausted to keep up in the DMC's final  advance to Aleppo, which fell to the EEF on 26 October. Hostilities ended five days later with the Armistice of Mudros. The 1/1st Staffs Yeomanry remained as part of the Army of Occupation until 19 December 1919 when it was reduced to a cadre in Egypt and disembodied soon afterwards.

2/1st Staffordshire Yeomanry
The 2nd Line regiment was formed in 1914. In 1915, it joined the 2/1st North Midland Mounted Brigade. In October, the brigade replaced the 1/1st NMMB in the 1st Mtd Division in Norfolk. On 31 March 1916, the remaining Mounted Brigades were ordered to be numbered in a single sequence and the brigade became the 3rd Mounted Brigade.

In July 1916, there was a major reorganization of 2nd Line yeomanry units in the United Kingdom. All but 12 regiments were converted to cyclists and as a consequence the regiment was dismounted and joined the 3rd Cyclist Brigade (and the division became 1st Cyclist Division) in the Holt area.

A further reorganisation in November 1916 saw the 1st Cyclist Division broken up and the regiment was remounted along with the rest of the brigade, which was redesignated as the new 2nd Mounted Brigade in the new 1st Mounted Division (originally 3rd Mounted Division) at Stansted. By May 1917, it was at Leybourne near West Malling in Kent.