[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Heshui Campaign

e.  However, by this time, one third of the 400+ strong nationalist advance guards had already been lost, and the company commander Ma Guochen who led the nationalist advance guards lost both his legs due to enemy fire.  The nationalists was forced to a temporary retreat and headed back to Qingyang.

Fourth Stage
At Heshui, the 719th Regiment of the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column spent a day and a night to attack the town without any success.  The political commissar of the communist 2nd Column, Wang Enmao () reached the positions held by the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column in person in order to discuss the next move with Guo Peng (), the commander of the communist 359th Brigade in the morning of May 30, 1947.  One suggestion was to take concentrate all available force to take the town first and then attack the hill to the north, but this suggestion was turned down by Guo Peng, the commander of the communist 359th Brigade, because if the strategic position of Northern Hill was not taken, the communists would be driven out of the town even if the town had been taken.  The dispute reached Wang Zhen, the commander of the communist 2nd Column and he telephoned back that he agreed with Guo Peng, giving his permission to attack the Northern Hill to at the northern edge of the town.  After an entire day of preparation, the communists renewed their assault on the town in the evening with the 717th Regiment of the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column as the main attacker, assisted by a detachment of the 719th Regiment of the 359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column.  However, heavy rain had helped the defenders to beaten back numerous assaults launched by the attackers, inflicting heavy casualties on the attackers.

The political commissar of the communist 2nd Column, Wang Enmao () wrote in his diary later to record the blunders committed by the attacking communists which resulted in failure and the first was the uncompromising doctrine strictly followed: once the proved to be ineffective, nobody thought about changing the tactic, instead, the ineffective tactic was continued.  Once reaching the enemy, no temporary fortifications were built and personnel were exposed under direct fire.  During the assault, nobody crawled, thus providing defenders with excellent target in the standing up position, and nobody had hit the dirty when the defenders had thrown hand grenades among the attackers.  The communist artillery shelling was disorganized and could not coordinate with infantry.  There was a general lack of knowledge of taking cover in favorable terrain and thus the defenders had easy time of targeting and aiming.  The communist casualty was so high that even an experienced veteran like the political commissar of the communist 2nd Column, Wang Enmao who had been in many fierce battles and campaigns was shocked.  Behind the city wall, the defenders considered that they had suffered equally bad.  The Heavy Weaponry Battalion of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade alone suffered more than three hundred casualties, including many company level and platoon level commanders.  Both the commander and the deputy commander of the anti-tank gun company were severely wounded by the enemy shelling, losing their legs.  The regimental commander of the nationalist Gansu 2nd Security Regiment, Li Hongxuan (), was also wounded.  The most serious setback for the defenders, however, was that the only radio in the town was destroyed in the battle so the besieged town lost contact with other nationalist units.