[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# English school of international relations theory

Kantian understanding of the world, the concept of world society takes the global population as a whole as basis for a global identity. However, Buzan also argued that the concept of World Society was the "Cinderella concept of English school theory", as it received almost no conceptual development.

Reexamination of traditional approaches
A great deal of the English School of thought concerns itself with the examination of traditional international theory, casting it — as Martin Wight did in his 1950s-era lectures at the London School of Economics — into three divisions (called by Barry Buzan as the English School's triad, based on Wight's three traditions):
 Realist (or Hobbesian, after Thomas Hobbes) and thus the concept of international system
 Rationalist (or Grotian, after Hugo Grotius), representing the international society
 Revolutionist (or Kantian, after Immanuel Kant) representing world society.

In broad terms, the English School itself has supported the rationalist or Grotian tradition, seeking a middle way (or via media) between the 'power politics' of realism and the 'utopianism' of revolutionism.

Later Wight changed his triad into a four-part division by adding Mazzini.

The English School is largely a constructivist theory, emphasizing the non-deterministic nature of anarchy in international affairs that also draws on functionalism and realism. It has been argued that, "the English School embodies the notion of a middle course between practical demands and moral claims. In contrast to the realist approach, the English School maintains that states are not entangled in a permanent struggle for power and that they limit their conflicts through common rules, institutions and moral imperatives. Unlike the revolutionist tradition, the English School accepts the realist premise that the state is the primary reality of the international political system and maintains that these imperatives foreswear the replacement of the society of states by a universal community of mankind." In this manner, the English School succeeds in incorporating the salient elements of the main traditions of International Relations theory.

Internal divisions
The English School is often understood to be split into two main wings, named after two categories described by Hedley Bull:
 The pluralists argue that the diversity of humankind - their differing political and religious views, ethnic and linguistic traditions, and so on - is best contained within a society that allows for the greatest possible independence for states, which can, in their forms of government, express those differing conceptions of the 'good life'. This position is expressed most forcefully by the Canadian academic Robert Jackson, especially in The Global Covenant (2001).
 The solidarists, by contrast, argue that the society of states should do more to promote the causes of human rights and, perhaps, emancipation - as opposed to the rights of states to political independence and non-intervention in their internal affairs. This position may be located in the work on humanitarian intervention by, amongst others, Nicholas Wheeler, in Saving Strangers (2000).

There are, however, further divisions within the school. The most obvious is that between those scholars who argue the school's approach should be historical and normative (such as Robert Jackson or Tim Dunne) and those who think it can be methodologically 'pluralist', making use of 'positivist' approaches to the field (like Barry Buzan and Richard Little).

Affinities to others
The English School does have affinities:
 The pluralists have drawn from the classical 'political realism' of Hans Morgenthau, George Kennan
 The pluralists have also been influence by the underpinnings of Reinhold Niebuhr's Christian realism
 The solidarists have drawn from realist writers, such as Stanley Hoffmann

Contemporary English School writers draw from a variety of sources:
 from structural 'neorealism' of Kenneth Waltz, in the case of Barry Buzan;
 from social constructivism of Alexander Wendt, see Tim Dunne;
 from 'critical theorists', in that of Andrew Linklater; and
 even from the 'post-structuralism' of Michel Foucault, in the case of James Der Derian.