[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Satveer Chaudhary

promoting the constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage and civil unions. In a media statement, Chaudhary denounced the letter as political hate speech. The group that ran the ad, Minnesota Citizens in Defense of Marriage, condemned the letter and said it did not condone threats of violence.

In November 2006, Chaudhary ran again for the SD-50 senate seat against Republican Rae Hart Anderson. He was re-elected to the Minnesota State Senate with 63% of the vote. Upon his victory the Republican opponent, Rae Hart Anderson, sent Chaudhary a concession email that said, "The race of your life is more important than this one--and it is my sincere wish that you'll get to know Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior."   Chaudhary, a Hindu, made no public comment in response. In October 2007 Chaudhary was chosen as a delegate to accompany Governor Tim Pawlenty on a Minnesota/India trade mission, along with numerous business executives from Minnesota-based firms. There the senator was the moving force behind the sister-state partnership agreement between Haryana and Minnesota signed during the visit.  The partnership - which was the first of its kind between a US and Indian state. On November 24, 2007 the Obama administration invited Chaudhary to attend a White House dinner honoring India Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. However, despite the connection with international and national politics, Chaudhary continued to focus the remainder of his senate term on conservation issues, state businesses, sportsman causes, and senate district concerns.

In 2010, after political controversies, Chaudhary lost the DFL endorsement for the SD-50 senate seat. He lost in the primary to DFL-endorsed former representative Barb Goodwin with 30.9 percent of the vote.  With the departure of Senator Satveer Chaudhary, and the 2010 retirements of Senator Mee Moua and Representative Cy Thao, there were no individuals of Asian descent represented in the Minnesota legislature at that time.

Conservation Efforts
During his tenure at the Minnesota legislature Chaudhary received numerous awards by civic, conservation and outdoors organizations and acknowledgments by the press in the area of conservation. During his first years of the Senate Chaudhary attained multiple years of perfect legislative voting scores from the Conservation Minnesota Voter Center, and in 2005 Chaudhary was named the Minnesota Conservation Federation Legislator of the Year. By 2008 Ducks Unlimited recognized the senator as a Conservation Partner in Minnesota. In 2009 Senator Chaudhary and his wife were nominated for Outstanding Conservationists Award by Anoka Conservation District at the MASWCD Annual Meetings and Trade show for their efforts to deal with wetland damage near their Fridley, Minnesota home.

Political Adversities
Chaudhary experienced forms of bias while in the Minnesota House and Senate. On his first election night victory to the Minnesota legislature, at a celebratory event Chaudhary was told by an inner-city DFL House-member to "get a nickname" easier for people to pronounce. On another occasion Senator Chaudhary wore a Nehru jacket, reflective of his South Asian heritage, on the Senate floor.  The act drew ire from members of the Minnesota State Senate, and one member even called for his removal from the chamber for not wearing a tie.  The Nehru jacket is considered formal dress in the South Asian culture, and in keeping with the traditions of appropriate legislative attire.  Notably, women in the Minnesota Senate did not wear ties.

During the 2010 legislative session upon request from Saint Louis County Commissioner, Dennis Fink, Chaudhary inserted a fish and game bill provision placing special conservation fishing regulations on Fish Lake.  Chaudhary disclosed to members of the committee crafting the bill’s final language, that his family owns a cabin on leased land on the lake. The Senator approached Representative David Dill, and requested he insert the conservation language into a House bill. After close of the legislative session, Senate Republicans questioned the appropriateness of changes to the bill. Although no complaint had been filed, Senator Chaudhary requested an independent Senate Ethics Panel review and advisory opinion. On June 2, 2010 the bipartisan Minnesota Senate Subcommittee on Ethical Conduct voted unanimously that Chaudhary had no conflict of interest in introducing the legislation, had violated no rule nor law, although "he should have taken more time to hear the proposal" and the "any benefit to (Chaudhary) was pure speculation".