[Source: PubMed]

7. Am J Public Health. 2019 Jan;109(1):41-45. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2018.304744. Epub
 2018 Nov 29.

The Socioeconomic Burden of Pain From War.

McCulloch Gallagher R(1), Sandbrink F(1).

Author information:
(1)Rollin McCulloch Gallagher is with the Departments of Psychiatry and 
Anesthesiology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, and the 
Center for Health Equities Research and Programs, Michael J Crescenz Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Philadelphia. Friedhelm Sandbrink is with the Department 
of Neurology, Washington DC Veterans Affairs Medical Center, and the Department 
of Neurology, School of Medicine, George Washington University, Washington, DC.

War's burden on the health and well-being of combatants, civilians, and 
societies is well documented. Although the examination of soldiers' injuries in 
modern combat is both detailed and comprehensive, less is known about 
war-related injuries to civilians and refugees, including victims of torture. 
The societal burden of war-related disabilities persists for decades in war's 
aftermath. The complex injuries of combat survivors, including multiple pain 
conditions and neuropsychiatric comorbidities, challenge health care systems to 
reorganize care to meet these survivors' special needs.We use the case study 
method to illustrate the change in pain management strategies for injured combat 
survivors in one national health system, the US Department of Veterans Affairs 
(VA). The care of veterans' disabling injuries suffered in Vietnam contrasts 
with the care resulting from the VA's congressional mandate to design and 
implement a pain management policy that provides effective pain management to 
veterans injured in the recent Middle East conflicts.The outcomes-driven, 
patient-centric Stepped Care Model of biopsychosocial pain management requires 
system-wide patient education, clinician training, social networking, and 
administrative monitoring. Societies are encouraged to develop their health care 
system's capacity to effectively respond to the victims of warfare, including 
combatants and refugees.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2018.304744
PMCID: PMC6301420
PMID: 30495989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]