[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Foreign direct investment in Iran

rranged in which the contractor funded all the investments, and then received remuneration from the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) in the form of an allocated production share, then transferred operation of the field to NIOC after a set number of years, at which time the contract was completed.

In February 2007 the government unveiled its new buyback-contract formula, which significantly extended the length of the contracts to as long as 20 years. The buy-back scheme is a formula used by the Iranian government to attract foreign investment. Following the end of the Iran–Iraq War in 1988, Iran faced a major problem: it needed foreign investment if it did not want to lose its vital income from the oil and gas industry, yet its revolutionary ideology and Constitution forbid granting "concessions". A compromise solution was found in 1989 with the First Five-Year Economic, Social and Cultural Development Plan. Under Note 29 of the said plan, the Iranian government is allowed to employ "buybacks" in its effort to meet the industrial and mineral needs in connection with exports, production and investment. Put in laymen terms, a buy-back transaction is a method of trade where plants, machinery, production equipment and technology is supplied (by a domestic or foreign private firm), in exchange for the goods that will be produced directly or indirectly by means of such facilities.

Under this scheme, the foreign partner that makes the initial investment can repatriate the return on the investment (at a pre-agreed fixed rate) through goods and services produced by the project. While many foreign companies believe that this method is a mere financing instrument for Iran, it is more accurate to say that it is a compromise formula for foreign investment in the short-run. In the medium to long-term, more appropriate laws and regulations will probably replace the buy-back scheme. In other words, once the constitutional concerns have been dealt with, the foreign partners of buy-back agreements can take over the projects that they are involved in, or they can enter into a joint venture with an Iranian partner.

The Iranian (or Integrated) Petroleum Contract (IPC)
Some of the main criticisms of the buyback contracts include lack of flexibility of cost recovery and in some cases, the NIOC's limited expertise to reverse field decline rates in comparison to the International Oil Company (IOC) that developed the field. The Integrated Petroleum Contract (IPC) will require the IOCs to fulfill Iran's local content requirement, which will be 51% of the contract and transfer of technology. IPCs will be offered for work on somewhere between 34 and 74 oil fields and could last for the duration of a field's life. In 2013 Iran also announced for the first time since the Iranian Revolution of 1979, the offering of production sharing contracts (PSCs) for the most complicated and difficult projects, such as deep-water wells in the Caspian Sea (the details of which will be revealed in December 2015 in London).

Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT)

Recent regulations have introduced the Build–operate–transfer (BOT) scheme for Iranian projects. This is a rather new possibility in the Iranian market. In this scheme, the foreign partner invests in one project, which is then operated for a certain period of time by the foreign investor before it is fully transferred to the Iranian government. Iranian authorities are showing some flexibility regarding the BOT, which could potentially pave the way for more foreign investment in the market.

Free trade zones and special economic zones

Iran's interest in free zones can be traced back to the 1970s.

Advantages
Free-trade (FTZ) and special economic zones (SEZ) have been established to provide additional investment incentives such as:
20 years tax-exemption (15 years, before 2014);
no entry visa requirement;
100% foreign ownership possible;
flexible employment regulations;
flexible monetary & banking services;
extended legal guarantees & protection.

Locations

As of January 2010, there were six free-trade zones (FTZ) and 16 special economic zones (SEZ) in Iran. More FTZ and SEZ are planned in Iran.

Outward FDI

Iran has made substantial investments abroad. The main agencies in charge are the Iran Foreign Investments Company (FDI) and the Central Bank of Iran (Forex). Broadly speaking, these investments can be categorized as FDI and foreign portfolio investments:

Outward FDI include: 
Joint car factories abroad (e.g. Syria, Azerbaijan, Senegal, Belarus, Venezuela)
Various joint petrochemical plants
Various power plants

Portfolio investments include:
National Development Fund portfolio investments abroad.
Foreign exchange reserves held abroad (see also: Iranian frozen assets)