[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frog Lake Massacre

ictims of the massacre in the cemetery. During their occupation the bell, which was suspended from the fire blackened bell tower, disappeared.

Aftermath 
The Cree moved on to Fort Pitt.  The massacre prompted the Canadian government to send troops and police to the area. The rebellion was put down.

Wandering Spirit, (Kapapamahchakwew) a Plains Cree war chief, Little Bear (Apaschiskoos), Walking the Sky (A.K.A. Round the Sky), Bad Arrow, Miserable Man, Iron Body, Ika (A.K.A. Crooked Leg) and Man Without Blood were put on trial for murders committed during the Frog Lake Massacre and at Battleford (the murders of Farm instructor Payne and Battleford farmer Barney Tremont). None of the accused natives were allowed legal counsel, and Judge Charles Rouleau sentenced each of them to death by hanging. He sentenced three others to hang as well, but their death sentences were commuted.

Eight Natives, including Wandering Spirit, were hanged on Nov. 27, 1885, in the largest mass hanging in Canada's history.

Although Big Bear had opposed the attack, he was charged with treason because of his efforts to organize resistance among the Cree.  He was convicted and sentenced to three years in the Manitoba Penitentiary.

Legacy
Frog Lake became part of the province of Alberta in 1905. The site of the massacre was designated the "Frog Lake National Historic Site" in 1923, at the location of the Cree uprising which occurred in the District of Saskatchewan, North-West Territories. Parks Canada says the site designated by the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada is extensive, but the national park service owns only a small portion, mainly a graveyard, where a stone cairn and federal plaque were erected in 1924. The geographic coordinates on this page are for that cairn.

In 2008, Christine Tell (provincial minister for tourism, parks, culture and sport) said "the 125th commemoration, in 2010, of the 1885 Northwest Resistance is an excellent opportunity to tell the story of the prairie Métis and First Nations peoples' struggle with Government forces and how it has shaped Canada today."

See also
Bell of Frog Lake
List of massacres in Canada
List of conflicts in Canada

References

Further reading
 This work was published in three editions 1926–1930, and a revised edition was published in 1950 as 
 Though a novel, a highly accurate account of the massacre and aftermath. First ed. 1984

 Littlejohn, Catherine. "The Indian oral tradition: a model for teachers." MA thesis, University of Saskatchewan, College of Education, 1975. Interviews about the massacre with First Nations people of the area

External links
University of Alberta Libraries
Article
Frog Lake National Historic Site, official site
 ; Wandering Spirit Bio
Northwest Campaign

Massacres in 1885
Battles of the North-West Rebellion
Cree
Massacres by First Nations
Aboriginal National Historic Sites of Canada
National Historic Sites in Alberta
April 1885 events
Massacres in Canada