[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Healing of periapical lesions

e normal oral microbial flora produced pulpal necrosis and led to periradicular lesion formation in the normal rats.  The germ-free rats healed regardless of the severity of pulpal exposure, demonstrating that the presence or absence of bacteria was the determinant for pulpal and periapical disease.

Moreover, it has since been discovered that endodontic infections are polymicrobial. In fact, the bacteria present within endodontic infections are thoroughly similar to the bacteria that are involved in periodontal disease. It has also been shown that certain enzymes produced by bacteria are detrimental to the host, and can work in concert with the destructive capability of the enzymes released by dying neutrophils. Recent studies have revealed that the gene for collagenases could be detected in stains of Porphyromonas gingivalis, one of the many endodontic infective agents that are also involved in periodontal disease.

Additionally, it has been proven that a positive correlation exists between the number of bacteria in an infected root canal and the size of the resultant periradicular radiolucency.

In attempting to resolve a periapical lesion of endodontic origin, it is essential to be conscious of these principles in order to effectively combat the infection. Without proper consideration for the causes, the pulpal and periapical infection cannot be suitably treated, for effective patient management requires the correct diagnosis and removal of the cause of the infection of endodontic origin to correct the associated periapical lesion. Because periapical disease is almost inevitably preceded by pulp disease, proper chemomechanical debridement of the infected root canals, together with incision and drainage of associated periradicular swellings, will usually allow for rapid improvement in patient signs and symptoms. The same end can be accomplished by extracting the involved tooth.

Source of infection
Although periapical changes will be in response to pulpal changes the majority of the time, it is still important to determine the disease process sequence. When the disease process is of pulpal origin, the pulpal infection and necrosis may drain not only through the apical foramen, but also through an accessory canal, which may present radiographically as a periradicular or furcation radiolucency. This may further lead to furcal involvement through loss of clinical attachment and alveolar bone. A cursory clinical examination and radiographic analysis can easily lead the clinician off the right course and pulpal involvement might be overlooked when the tooth is asymptomatic. Similarly, a periodontal abscess may very well appear to be pulpal in origin, when in fact it is not. Notwithstanding the tissue of origin, though, when it is determined that there is a pulpal involvement to the periodontal lesion, the endodontic infection should be controlled prior to beginning definitive management of the periodontal lesion, especially when regenerative or bone grafting techniques are planned.

Focusing on proper procedure
To achieve healing of the periapical lesion, one must obtain and maintain a decontaminated root canal system. System is to be emphasized, because the root canal system does not merely consist of tapering cone-shaped canals from orifice to apex, but rather, can and often is an intricate labyrinth of canals that diverge and weave to form an elaborate web of anastomosing passages. It is precisely because of this reality that “it is important to appreciate that files produce shape, but it is essential to understand that irrigants clean [the] root canal system. Copious amounts of sodium hypochlorite are necessary to utterly dissolve all remnants of pulp tissue as well as completely destroy all microorganisms. The tooth stability does not undergo major changes after surgery comparated with the initial value which was determined before establishing any kind of treatment.

Conventional therapy
Many authoritative clinicians and researchers advise completing endodontic therapy as soon as possible, especially in situations necessitating incision and drainage, in order to remove the cause of infection without delay. Recent studies have shown, however, that intracanal application of certain medicaments prior to the completion of endodontic therapy may produce highly favorable results when followed by conventional therapy, even when the periapical area is very large. The use of chlorhexidine gluconate and calcium hydroxide for infection control was shown to lead to substantial healing of a large periapical lesion.