[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# United States–Korea Free Trade Agreement

d in Korea" and that "It's a horrible deal, and we are going to renegotiate that deal or terminate it." According to Trump, "We've told them that we'll either terminate or negotiate; we may terminate", while South Korea's Ministry of Trade said it had yet to receive a request to open renegotiations.

On September 2, 2017, President Trump said he was weighing whether to soon start the process of withdrawing from the agreement. Trump said he was consulting with his top advisors, some of whom supported withdrawal and some of whom – including Gary Cohn, President Trump's chief economic advisor – did not. The United States Chamber of Commerce expressed opposition to withdrawing from the agreement. By October 4, 2017, the Trump administration had backed away from considering a full withdrawal from KORUS FTA and instead agreed with South Korea to renegotiate the deal.

On March 16, 2018, The third round of Korea-U.S. FTA talks has begun. The talks concluded later on March 27, when an agreement in principle was reached between the Trump administration and the South Korean government. The terms included an increase of annual U.S. auto exports from 25,000 vehicles to 50,000 that are only required to meet U.S. safety regulations instead of South Korean regulations. A cap will also be placed on steel exports from South Korea to the United States, though South Korea will remain exempt from the 25% steel tariff the Trump administration placed on most other nations. On the 24th of September, 2018 U.S. President Donald Trump and South Korea's President Moon Jae-in signed the new agreement at the Lotte Palace hotel in New York City.

Critics did not see any benefit for the United States in these provisions, given the number of exports to South Korea was unlikely to reach the lower quota, and Korean car makers were not importing trucks into the United States.

Overfishing complaint
In September 2019, the United States filed an environmental complaint under the agreement, alleging some fishing by South Korean vessels violated fishery management rules.

United States reactions

Opponents

Opponents make the following arguments:
 The exclusion of rice is unfair to Korean rice exporters.
 The agreement gives South Korea too much time to eliminate agricultural tariffs on US beef.
 The agreement says little about services, a U.S. strength and the country's chief focus in bilateral negotiations.
 South Korea has long been accustomed to selling cars, computers and ships around the world.
 South Korea provides Korean farmers with levels of subsidy considerably higher than farmers elsewhere in the world.
 In 2008, some U.S. lawmakers opposed the free trade deal with South Korea, citing an imbalance in auto trade. They also wanted more steel shipments to South Korea.
 The U.S. think-tank Economic Policy Institute predicted that it would lead to the loss of 159,000 jobs.