[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chedworth Roman Villa

workshop was installed on top of the mosaic floor and two hearths, made out of pieces of architecture of the villa, were built into the worn floor of the room.

52% of the coins found at the villa date from 564 to 585 showing that intensive occupation continued into the post-Roman period.

Nymphaeum

The pool in the north-west corner of the villa complex was developed from the naturally occurring fresh-water spring which most likely inspired the location of the villa in the first place. The spring became a location for an apsidal shrine to the water-nymphs (nymphaeum). The extant curved rear wall is 2 metres high and is the original Roman masonry.

All of the water needs of the villa were provided for by this spring.  An octagonal pool is located at the centre and is still fed by the spring; a Christian chi-rho monogram was discovered scratched onto what was the rim of the pool. This symbol had a short presence in the early fourth century but was soon replaced by the original water nymphs.

Temples

Foundations of a Romano-British temple have been excavated about 800 metres south-east of the villa buildings. The remains comprise the southwest and southeast corners of a rectangular building, measuring 16.5m by 16.0m. Altars preserved in the villa museum probably came from the temple as did coins, glass tesserae and a stone carved niche.

There was, however, another Roman building in Chedworth Woods about 150 metres northwest of the villa which was destroyed in the construction of the railway around 1869. Finds included coins, hexagonal tiles, fragments of pillars, part of a shell-headed niche and glass tesserae. The stone relief of a "hunter god" with hare, dog and stag, sometimes ascribed to the southeast temple, may have come from this site.

Another carved figure was discovered bearing a fragmentary inscription which it is believed may refer to the healing god Mars Lenus, a deity of the Treveri tribe in Gaul.

Discovery and display

The villa was accidentally discovered in 1864 by Thomas Margetts, a gamekeeper who was digging for a ferret, and found fragments of mosaic tesserae. The site was subsequently excavated in 1865-7 by James Farrer, an antiquarian and the Member of Parliament for South Durham. The owner of the land was the Earl of Eldon, and it was he who financed the excavations, roofing for the mosaics, and the building of the mock-Tudor lodge to house the artifacts. Little, if anything, of the excavations was recorded. Only the best four mosaics were left exposed under shelters and the rest were reburied for their protection.

In 1924 the villa was acquired by the National Trust. Excavations have taken place periodically since then.

In 1957-1965 Prof. Ian Richmond excavated and re-interpreted Chedworth but died in 1965 without publishing any results. Parts of the villa were re-buried.

In 2011 a new cover building was provided for the mosaics in the west wing to ensure their preservation.

A geophysical survey of the field east of the villa in 2012 revealed a central approach road running up from the valley floor and two other buildings, one a circular stone structure on the south side of the road.

A new excavation campaign started in 2013 on the north wing and has revealed previously unrecorded mosaics, partially destroyed by Ian Richmond in 1964.

Geometric meander patterns

The pavement mosaics in several rooms exhibit the typical geometric meander patterns found in other Roman villas throughout England. The dining room floor contains one of the most elaborate geometric designs found in the villa. Although in good condition, there are substantial portions of it missing. However, a simple mathematical algorithm has been discovered that is able to reconstruct the missing parts of the mosaic from what is still there.

New building

In recent times, it was considered that Victorian efforts at conservation on the site were outdated and that the early shelters weren't providing sufficient protection. The National Trust appointed Feilden Clegg Bradley Studios to design a new conservation building as well as a learning facility for the archaeological site. At the same time the reception building was refurbished.
The £2.2m project was completed in March 2012.

Notes

References
 
 
 Goodburn, Roger. (1972), The Roman Villa: Chedworth, Curwen Press,

Further reading
Simon Esmonde Cleary, (2012), Chedworth Roman Villa. National Trust Guide. 
Stephanie Jeane Toussaint, (2013), "A comparative geometric analysis of the patterns found on the pavement mosaics of the Chedworth Roman villa." In Proceedings of Bridges Enschede: Mathematics, Music, Art, Architecture, Culture, Hart, G. & Sarhangi, R., (Eds.), Enschede, The Netherlands, July 27–31, pp. 55–62.

External links 

Chedworth Roman Villa information at the National Trust
Heritage Trail page