[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# World Forum of Fish Harvesters and Fish Workers

ghts, social justice and culture of fish harvesters and fish workers, affirming the sea as source of all life and committing themselves to sustain fisheries and aquatic resources from the present and future generations, to protect their livelihood. The objectives of the WFF are the ones that follow:

 To protect, defend, and strengthen the economic viability and quality of life for fish harvesters, fish workers and the communities that depend on the fishery for their livelihood.
 To assist member organizations to secure and improve upon the economic viability and quality of life of fish harvesters, fish workers and their communities.
 To create an understanding of the resource as a common heritage of humanity and, through sustainable fishing practices, conservation and the regeneration of marine and inland resources and ecosystems, to ensure that it is passed on to future generations.
 To promote food security, both locally and worldwide, by sustaining fish stocks for the future, and by reserving fish for human consumption.
 To prevent the export of resource collapse crises and of technologies and practices that lead to these crises.
 To acknowledge and enhance the unique culture of fishing communities.
 To protect fishing communities, fish resources and fish habitats such as coastal zones, watersheds and mangroves, from both land-based and sea-based threats. These include displacement by tourism, pollution (including the use of sea as a dumping ground for toxic waste), destructive industrial aquaculture, overfishing and destructive fishing practices.
 To promote a legal regime that will ensure the traditional and customary rights of fishing communities to the fishery under the national jurisdiction.
 To establish and assert the rights of fishing communities to their customary territories in the coastal zone, under their national jurisdiction for fishing and habitation.
 To play a monitoring role to ensure that states and transnational corporations comply with relevant international agreements and to oppose any trade agreements that threaten the livelihood of fishers.
 To promote the primary role of fish harvester and fish worker organizations in managing fisheries and oceans nationally and internationally.
 To promote equitable representation of fish harvester and fish worker organizations in all relevant regional and international fora and to advocate their recognition.
 To provide support for national and international struggles that are consistent with the objectives of the World Forum.
 To encourage, assist and support fish harvesters and fish workers to organize where they have not already done so.
 To promote the right of fish harvesters and fish workers to social security, safe working conditions, fair income and safety at sea, as well as their recognition as seafarers.
 To recognize, protect and enhance the role of women in the fishing economy and in the sustenance of the community.
 To improve the communication between fish harvesters and the scientific community through the exchange of knowledge and science.

External links 
 www.worldfisherforum.org

Fishing industry
Labour in Uganda
Human rights organisations based in Uganda
Organizations established in 1995