[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Moshe Sanbar

stment company. Between 1968 and 1971, the bank had given out greater development loans given since it was established in 1957. The bank's business cycle had also shown significant growth, from 330 million Israeli pound in 1968 to more than 600 million in 1971.

Acting Minister of Trade and Industry

In 1970–1971, Sanbar served as acting minister of commerce and industry in Israel's fifteenth government headed by Golda Meir, acting for Minister Sapir who remained active in his simultaneous appointment as Minister of Finance. Sanbar was made Sapir's “special advisor” and carried all ministerial authority. In this capacity, he was charged with coordinating the government efforts preventing prices spiral and inflation, triggered by security threats that forced further taxation. Sanbar orchestrated the "package deal" signed with the Histadrut, allowing increased taxation alongside wage growth, supported by the industry's willingness to absorb growing costs of production.

The ministry of commerce and industry was focused during this time in promoting legislation concerning consumer protection and prevention of unjust competition. Sanbar was also involved in recommending the development of Merkava battle tanks for its positive aspect in terms of Israel's industry.

Simultaneously to this role, Sanbar was also an economic advisor to Pinhas Sapir at the Ministry of Finance, serving as chairman of the Economic Advisory Council. In that capacity, he was greatly involved in the 1971 devaluation.

Governor of the Bank of Israel

Between 1971 and 1976 Sanbar served as Governor of the Bank of Israel. His term in office was characterized by a series of events which made it one of the most complex times in the history of Israeli economy: the budgetary consequences of the Yom Kippur War, the 1970s energy crisis which quadrupled prices of gas in Israel and the increase in expenses due to a renewed arms race in the Middle East following the Six Day War. The monetary policy was greatly affected and the “emergency credit” policy taken by him during the Yom Kippur War was instrumental in maintaining a stabilized market.

In aggrievance towards the leaderships of industry and agriculture, Sanbar pushed for cancelling the existing approach differentiating subsidized credit from direct credit. In addition, Liquidity rates were lowered for expatriates from 90 percent to 10 percent, making the local banking system an important factor among Jewish communities worldwide.  For the first time, the central bank was given responsibility supervising the foreign exchange market, and devaluation of the Israeli pound were being done in relation to the currency basket instead of the American dollar. Further developments in the Israeli economy included the founding of the First International Bank, as well as the dissolution of Agudat Yisrael Bank  and of the Israel-British Bank. The two events were the trigger for reevaluating the Banking Law in Israel and a legislative proposal was put forward, only to be partially approved in 1981.

As governor, Sanbar represented Israel in the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, as well as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the Inter-American Development Bank. Two of his international initiatives gained fame and were each related to as the “Sanbar Proposal”:
 A Proposal for the establishment of an institution providing guarantees for the export of capital between developing countries (This was later adopted by the organization of Latin American states) 
 A plan for gradual sale and demonetization of monetary gold under the supervision of the IMF. 

Within the Bank of Israel, following almost two decades of David Horowitz's tenure, Sanbar was responsible for the modernization of the bank: A public complaints office was formed, the dispersed personnel focused on the foreign exchange market was formed into a central department, as well as the creation of a centralized legal counsel overseeing the legal aid in the bank's departments. Furthermore, the department for bank regulation was empowered by separating its regulatory responsibility over credit into an independent department.

The collapse of the Israel-British Bank was the first incident to invoke the Bank of Israel's authority, created by legislation passed in 1969, to appoint a bank director on behalf of the central bank and to provide the bank clients with guarantees. The swift resolutions made towards the account holders was a turning point in regulatory supervision on aspects of inter-national banking, despite the complexity of the specific circumstances causing the dissolution of the bank to be finalized only after more than three decades. A commission of inquiry chaired by Meir Shamgar completed its findings in 1975, finding Sanbar's acts to have been adequate.