[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Anishinaabe clan system

aracteristic of the clan's totem.  The metaphors that survive to today include:
 Bimaawidaasi 'Carrier' = Amik(we) 'Beaver'
 Giishkizhigwan 'Cut-tail' = Maanameg 'Catfish'
 Nooke 'Tender' = Makwa 'Bear'
 Baswenaazhi 'Echo-maker' = Ajijaak(we) 'Crane'
 Bemaangik 'Pass-by Sounder' = Owewe 'Wild goose'

Social order
Some national sub-divisions were simply referred by their major clan component.  An example of this would be Maandawe-doodem ('Fisher-clan') of the Meshkwahkihaki peoples, who live along the south shore of Lake Superior.  More inland than the Maandawe-doodem were the Waagosh-doodem ('Fox clan') of the Meshkwahkihaki, who are called the Fox Tribe in English.  When the Maandawe were defeated in a major battle between the Ojibwe and the Meshkwahkihaki peoples, the surviving Maandawe were adopted as part of the Ojibwa nation, but instead as the Waabizheshi-doodem ('Marten clan'). Among some Ojibwe people, (though not all) the Waabizheshi clan is also used to denote a form of adoption, i.e., a non-native father and Ojibwe mother.  In other instances, for example,  communities such as the Amikwaa were treated as fully interdependent Nations of the Anishinaabeg Confederacy, or given a designation to represent their primary function in the social order, such as with the Manoominikeshiinyag ('Ricing-rails') or the Waawaashkeshi-ininiwag ('Deer[-clan] Men').

Some  indicate non-Ojibwe origins.  Other than Waabizheshi, these include the Ogiishkimanisii-doodem (Kingfisher Clan) and Ma'iingan-doodem (Wolf Clan) for Dakota and Migizi-doodem (Eagle Clan) for Americans.  There are other  considered rare today among the Ojibwa because the  have migrated into other tribes, such as the Nibiinaabe-doodem (Merman Clan), which shows up as the Water-spirits Clan of the Winnebagoes.

Kinship

Ojibwa understanding of kinship is complex, taking into account of not only the immediate family but also the extended family.  It is considered a modified Bifurcate merging (Iroquois) kinship system.  Consequently, Ojibwa would speak of not only about grandfather () and grandmother (), father () and mother (), and son () and daughter (), but also would speak of elder brother (), younger sibling (), cross-uncle (), parallel-aunt (), male sibling of same gender (), female sibling of same gender () and sibling of opposite gender (), and cross-cousin of the opposite gender (), to name only a few.

Siblings generally share the same term with parallel-cousins as with any Bifurcate merging kinship system due to being a member the same , but the modified system allows for younger sibling to share the same kinship term with younger cross-cousins ().  In addition the complexity wanes as one goes away from the speaker's immediate generation, with some degree of complexity retained with female relatives (for example,  is 'my mother's sister' or 'my father's sister-in-law'—i.e., my parallel-aunt—but also 'my parent's female cross-cousin').  In both with the great-grandparents and older generations and with the great-grandchildren and younger generations, the Ojibwa collectively call them . This sign of kinship/clans speaks of the very nature of the Anishinaabe's entire philosophy/lifestyle, that is of interconnectedness and balance between all living generations and all generations of the past and of the future.

In addition to the Anishinaabeg , clans of other tribes are considered related to the Anishinaabe clans if they have the same designation.  Consequently, for example, a union between an Anishinaabe Bear Clan member with a Cherokee Bear Clan member would be considered illegal — even incestuous — by many traditional community groups.

Notable

White Crane

The White Crane clan were the traditional hereditary chiefs of the Ojibwe at Sault Ste. Marie and Madeline Island, and were some of the more powerful chiefs encountered by the first French explorers of Lake Superior.  Members of the crane clan include:
Tagwagane – an important chief at Madeline Island in the early 19th century
Ikwesewe – the wife of Michel Cadotte and the namesake of Madeline Island

Loon 

Closely associated with the crane clan, members of the loon clan became important chiefs on Lake Superior's south shore during the fur trade period.
Members of the loon clan include:
Chief Buffalo – a famous chief of Madeline Island
Walter Bresette – a Red Cliff Ojibwe activist

Bear 

Always the most numerous of the Anishinaabeg, members of the bear clan were traditionally the warriors and police (Ogichidaa), as well as the healers.  Many members of the clan continue in these roles today.  The bear clan provided most of those who participated in the Bad River Train Blockade.  In fiction, the police officers in the novels of Louise Erdrich come from the bear clan.

Eagle