[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rashidieh

nd century CE was discovered there in 1940. It is exhibited at the National Museum in Beirut.

 Byzantine period (395–640) 
According to the Syrian scholar Evagrius Scholasticus (536-596 CE), the hill of what is now Rashidieh was known as Sinde - "a place where a hermit called Zozyma used to dwell."

Over the course of the 6th century CE, starting in 502, a series of earthquakes shattered Tyre area and left the city diminished. The worst one was the 551 Beirut earthquake. It was accompanied by a Tsunami and probably destroyed also much of what was left in the area of what is now Rashidieh. In addition, the city and its population increasingly suffered during the 6th century from the political chaos that ensued when the Byzantine empire was torn apart by wars. The city remained under Byzantine control until it was captured by the Sassanian shah Khosrow II at the turn from the 6th to the 7th century CE, and then briefly regained until the Muslim conquest of the Levant, when in 640 it was taken by the Arab forces of the Rashidun Caliphate.

 Medieval times 

 Early Muslim period (640–1124) 
As the bearers of Islam restored peace and order, Tyre soon prospered again and continued to do so during half a millennium of Caliphate rule.  The Rashidun period only lasted until 661. It was followed by the Umayyad Caliphate (until 750) and the Abbasid Caliphate. In the course of the centuries, Islam spread and Arabic became the language of administration instead of Greek.

At the end of the 11th century, Tyre avoided being attacked by paying tribute to the Crusaders who marched on Jerusalem. However, in late 1111, King Baldwin I of Jerusalem laid siege on the former island city and probably occupied the mainland, including the area that is now Rashidieh, for that purpose. Tyre in response put itself under the protection of the Seljuk military leader Toghtekin. Supported by Fatimid forces, he intervened and forced the Franks to raise the siege in April 1112, after about 2.000 of Baldwin's troops had been killed. A decade later, the Fatimids sold Tyre to Toghtekin who installed a garrison there.

 Crusader period (1124–1291) 
On 7 July 1124, in the aftermath of the First Crusade, Tyre was the last city to be eventually conquered by the Christian warriors, a Frankish army on the coast - i.e. also in today's Rashidieh area - and a fleet of the Venetian Crusade from the sea side. The takeover followed a siege of five and a half months that caused great suffering from hunger to the population. Eventually, Tyre's Seljuk ruler Toghtekin negotiated an agreement for surrender with the authorities of the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem.

Under its new rulers, Tyre and its countryside - including what is now Rashidieh - were divided into three parts in accordance with the Pactum Warmundi: two-thirds to the royal domain of Baldwin and one third as autonomous trading colonies for the Italian merchant cities of Genoa, Pisa and - mainly to the Doge of Venice. He had a particular interest in supplying silica sands to the glassmakers of Venice and so it may be assumed that the area of what is now Rashidieh fell into his interest sphere.

 Mamluk period (1291–1516) 
In 1291, Tyre was again taken, this time by the Mamluk Sultanate's army of Al-Ashraf Khalil. He had all fortifications demolished to prevent the Franks from re-entrenching. After Khalil's death in 1293 and political instability, Tyre lost its importance and "sank into obsurity." When the Moroccan explorer Ibn Batutah visited Tyre in 1355, he found it a mass of ruins.

 Modern times 

 Ottoman rule (1516-1918) 

The Ottoman Empire conquered the Levant in 1516, yet the desolate area of Tyre remained untouched for another ninety years until the beginning of the 17th century, when the leadership at the Sublime Porte appointed the Druze leader Fakhreddine II as Emir to administer Jabal Amel (modern-day South Lebanon). He encouraged the systematically discriminated Shiites - known as the Metwalis - to settle near Tyre in order to secure the road to Damascus, and thus laid the foundation of Rashidieh's 19th century demographics.

However, the development of the Greater Tyre area stalled once again in 1635, when Sultan Murad IV had Fakhreddine executed for his political ambitions. Henceforth, it is unclear how the area of Rashidieh developed in the following 200 years, except that it was apparently called Tell Habish (also spelled Habesh) during that time, the "Hill of Habish":

"Habish" may be translated as "Ethiopian", which in turn might refer to the Tyrian brothers Frumentius and Edesius, who got shipwrecked on the Eritrean coast in the 4th century CE. While Frumentius has been credited with bringing Christianity to the Kingdom of Aksum and became the first bishop of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, Edesius returned to Tyre to become a priest.