[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Helen Zille

s of its so-called liberation camps and infighting" because the ANC "had no viable armed struggle to speak of.” John Steenhuisen, the interim leader of the DA at the time, distanced himself from Zille's views, and the Federal Legal Commission of the party launched an investigation into her comments.

Dr Duncan Du Bois, a historian and political analyst, supported Helen Zille's assertion. He pointed out that, based on research by James Myburgh, the Apartheid government passed 59 pieces of race-based legislation over a period of 70 years, whereas the post-Apartheid government has passed 90 laws with racial representativity  mandates over a period of 25 years. Political analyst James Myburgh considered Helen Zille's comments "hyperbolic" but "not (far) wrong".  Myburgh's analysis, however, included post-Apartheid laws mandating racial representation on the boards of individual statutory bodies, but did not include Apartheid-era laws specific to the Bantustans.

Allegations of nepotism
While Zille was Premier, evidence emerged that she had used her influence to provide her son, Paul Maree, who was in the process of developing his private business, with state procured equipment to test his software products. These allegations came to light when questioned by MPL Cameron Dugmore, who referred the matter to the Public Protector's office for investigation. MPL Dugmore alleged that pressure was put on the Education Department by the Premier to ensure that the tablets be provided to her son, and that other businesses were prejudiced in the process, and that the nepotism matter was clear. MPL Dugmore also requested the Western Cape Legislature investigate the Premier for Breach of Ethics.

Personal life
Zille married Professor Johann Maree in 1982, and they have two sons. She is a member of the Rondebosch United Church in Cape Town.

Published works
Zille, Helen (October 2016). Not Without a Fight. Penguin Books. ISBN 	9781776090426
Zille, Helen (April 2021). #StayWoke: Go Broke: Why South Africa won’t survive America’s culture wars (and what you can do about it). Independently Published. ISBN 	9798727953457

References

External links

Helen Zille winner of the 2008 World Mayor Prize
Helen Zille's blog
Helen Zille's interactive social media profile at Zoopy.com
City Mayors profile
Quotes about Cape Town's mayoral system
Zille voted Newsmaker of the year
CapeInfo interview with Helen Zille
Interview with Helen Zille at metkere.com
 

|-

|-

1951 births
Calvinist and Reformed anti-apartheid activists
Democratic Alliance (South Africa) politicians
Democratic Party (South Africa) politicians
Living people
Mayors of Cape Town
Members of the Western Cape Provincial Parliament
Alumni of St Mary's School, Waverley
Politicians from Johannesburg
Premiers of the Western Cape
South African Calvinist and Reformed Christians
South African people of German descent
Women mayors of places in South Africa
University of the Witwatersrand alumni
White South African anti-apartheid activists
20th-century South African women politicians
20th-century South African politicians
21st-century South African women politicians
21st-century South African politicians
Black Sash
South African people of German-Jewish descent
Women members of provincial legislatures of South Africa
Women premiers of South African provinces