[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Finnish torpedo boat S2

but to no avail.

The Ministry of Defence soon ran out of money for the operation and gave the job to a private company. They too pumped air into the hull to lift it and pulled wires under the ship to lift it. After ten days, on 5 August 1926, the ship surfaced and floated with the aid of pontoons.

The vessel was transported to the Reposaari harbor in Pori, where it was turned on its keel, emptied on water and initially investigated. They found the bodies of 23 crew members inside the hull and these were taken ashore. S2 was then transported to Helsinki where a more thorough investigation was conducted. The ship was scrapped after the investigation.

The influence of the disaster
The loss of S2 created big headlines at its time and it upset both the general population, the personnel of the Finnish navy, as well as Finnish sailors. The accident and the following debate led to the creation of the Finnish Navy Association in 1926 (the organization is called the Finnish Maritime Society today). This organization ran the fleet renewal question and it had a great influence on the decision on the new Fleet Law that was established in 1927. This law resulted in the requisition of the coastal armoured ships Väinämöinen and Ilmarinen, the submarine fleet and the purchase of new torpedo boats in the 1930s.

The 23 bodies that were found inside the ship were buried at the Reposaari burial ground in a joint grave, on 15 August 1926. A statue over the dead sailors was raised at the Reposaari church one year later. The statue was made by the sculptor Wäinö Aaltonen.

The day of the disaster is also remembered by the Finnish navy every year.

Ships of the class in the Finnish navy

References

Sources

  Torpedbåten S2:s minne.'' Årsbok för Finlands flotta 2. Schildts 1925.
  Torpedovene S2:n tuho 4.10.1925
  The Finnish war veterans association's magazine, 5/2005, p 20.
  Finnish page about wrecks.

S-class torpedo boats
Sokol-class destroyers
1899 ships
Shipwrecks in the Baltic Sea
Maritime incidents in 1925
Ships lost with all hands