[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Third World War (Hackett novels)

The Third World War and The Third World War: The Untold Story are war novels by Sir John Hackett, published in 1978 and 1982, by Macmillan in New York and Sidgwick & Jackson in London, respectively. The novels detail a hypothetical World War III waged between NATO and the Warsaw Pact in 1985, written in the style of a non-fiction historical retrospective interspersed with accounts of the conflict from the perspectives of various people. 

The Third World War and The Untold Story describe largely similar events, but the latter incorporates geopolitical and technological developments made since, such as the rise of Solidarity in Poland, the Sino-Vietnamese conflicts, and the proposed militarization of space. 

The actual events of the 1980s, culminating in the dissolution of the Soviet Union and German reunification, have made it impossible for the scenario depicted in the novels to occur, making them an example of retrofuturism.

Plot 
The novel starts with the 1984 United States presidential election, in which Democratic Party nominee Walter Mondale loses to Republican Party nominee Governor Thompson of South Carolina. The world of the mid-1980s is detailed by President Thompson's advisors, who brief him on the international geopolitical situation when he takes office: Asia is flourishing economically as more Asian states, including North Korea and Vietnam, liberalize their economies (China in particular thrives thanks to Japanese partnerships); India, a notable exception to Asia's economic prosperity, is disintegrating into smaller coalitions of mutually-hostile quasi-states; the Arab Cold War is intensifying as Egypt's new unstable left-wing government grapples with Saudi Arabia; South Africa has become a federation under the bantustan system but is under threat by Nigeria, which has committed troops to the South African Border War; Ethiopia has fragmented under the incompetent rule of the Derg as separatists, including Eritrea, gain power despite Eastern Bloc assistance; and the Soviet Union's sphere of influence is rapidly shrinking as nationalism and anti-Sovietism rise throughout the Warsaw Pact and even the Soviet republics.

Meanwhile, the Politburo, coming to the consensus that its economy is stagnating and the Soviet Armed Forces may not be able to retain technological parity with the West for much longer, decides that it is within their best interests to expand the Soviet sphere of influence by force through an invasion of Western Europe. Although resistance from NATO is guaranteed, the Politburo gambles on quickly defeating its European members before the United States can mount a counteroffensive, while also keeping neutral countries out of the war and potentially causing a schism in Western Europe's defense by convincing France to stay out of the conflict. The Soviets deliberate three options:

 "Variant A": A large-scale preemptive nuclear strike alongside Spetsnaz paratrooper deployments in areas not under nuclear attack, followed by a seven-day land invasion to the Linz-Frankfurt-Dunkirk line.
 "Variant B": Identical to the above, but with chemical weapons and high explosives instead of nuclear weapons.
 "Variant C": A conventional invasion with nuclear strikes as a backup option should the invasion stall.

To avoid mutual assured destruction, the Politburo ultimately decides on Variant C as their invasion strategy, albeit augmented with chemical weapon strikes in locations where their use is deemed effective.

The catalyst for conflict comes in July 1985, when a U.S. Marine Corps unit intervenes against a Soviet incursion into Yugoslavia. In response, the Warsaw Pact mobilizes and launches a full-scale invasion of Western Europe on 4 August 1985, the 71st anniversary of the start of World War I. Soviet forces advance on Europe from East Germany and manage to thrust through West Germany towards the Rhine, while also landing forces in Norway and Turkey. Attacks are also carried out using strategic bombing campaigns, Soviet Navy firepower, and even space weapons.