[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# CT Special Forces: Fire for Effect

Counter Terrorist Special Forces: Fire for Effect, known in North America as Special Forces: Nemesis Strike, is a third-person shooter video game by Asobo Studio for Microsoft Windows and Xbox. Players play as a counter-terrorism agency. The main objective is to dismantle the Nemesis network and get back stolen technology. It is the fourth and final game in the CT Special Forces series.

Plot
The player plays as either two of the Counter Terrorist Special Forces (CTSF) elite agents: 'Stealth' Owl or 'Immortal' Raptor. They are both at best in stealth and frontal assault tactics respectively to complete their mission.

The game begins with a speech by the World Council President speaking to senators in regard to the CTSF and their work. It appears that the CTSF has an artificial intelligence unit and it has contributed to the many successes of the CTSF in fighting terrorism. Thanks to the Proteus Project that the council had voted for an artificial intelligence unit, Thesis, the CTSF's AI has been baptised to serve the CTSF with its fight against terrorism, with 90% accuracy and no news of terrorist attacks in the last six months. General Banner, the former general now serving the CTSF, gives thanks. It is then seen that due to the geopolitical climate no longer steady, the council has voted that Thesis be reassigned to military research, which exasperates Banner. He is told to relax and is told of the plans, which he does not seem happy on.

Back in Antarctica, the CTSF base has training carried out. Owl is handling his recruits when then he and Raptor are called in by Tracy, the head in communications, for officer's evaluation. The player is then taught, in two missions on how to use the interfaces with Raptor or Owl.

Soon after Banner returns, three simultaneous attacks are alerted. A tanker is hijacked and a train is bombarded, both by terrorists. Raptor handles the tanker while Owl handles the train, but the terrorists succeed in the third attack where they blew a dam and flooded the city of Kiev. Raptor is first sent in to clear the numerous patrol boats with terrorists and then save a civilian. Owl then parachutes down, going to handle the terrorists and their plan to destroy the city. Owl finishes most of them off, until a chopper comes in and attacks. Owl heads to a stadium where Raptor is waiting and Raptor takes care of the chopper with his Hoverspeed.

The terrorist threat isn't over yet, as Tracy, back in headquarters points out that the terrorists have escaped to Russia, with a heavy transportation of arms carried out. Raptor heads to an unused dock where the terrorists are located and finishes the choppers escaping, with a heavy frontal assault attack using the element of surprise. However, upon clearing the place, it is then found out that the mission was to be aborted as the terrorists have suddenly gained an upper hand, where they succeeded taking control of a missile launch base, threatening to fire a nuclear missile. Raptor is then extracted while Owl continues in stealth. Somehow, when Owl arrives in the control room, the missile has been triggered to fire, and he is told to look for the scientists who can stop the bomb. They arrive swiftly, stopping the launch sequence.

The terrorists escape to the Middle East where they have fortified a base. Owl is sent in by a stealth drop while Raptor is sent in for a ground intervention. Owl first locates a terminal and allows the CTSF access to the base. Owl then plants charges on gun posts and rigs them to explode just as Raptor then arrives to pick him up.

The terrorists then secure an unused bunker and the CTSF retaliates. Raptor first handles anti-aircraft guns where owl then is dropped in stealth, but the terrorists somehow manage to block Thesis from overseeing the base of operations so Owl goes in blind. He ends up, wounded from an explosion, hearing the leader of the terrorists just before he was injured from.

Owl recuperates, while Banner is angry at what the terrorists are doing. Just as well, the terrorists are found in a jungle, where Raptor is sent in to take them down. Securing the jungle, Raptor finds a bunker, where he estimates that there are too many enemies for him to hold. He requests for help, which Banner, ironically sends Owl, though still in need of recuperation. He arrives at the spot, to Raptor's shock and takes over. It is then found out of the bunker; it is the base of the Nemesis Organisation (NO), where the ex-CTSF scientist Gregory Statszeck is found. Owl then tries to get him back, and they also succeed extracting data from the NO's AI, Nemesis. Raptor then arrives to pick them up.