[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Peggy Stewart (ship)

Peggy Stewart was a Maryland cargo vessel burned on October 19, 1774, in Annapolis as a punishment for contravening the boycott on tea imports which had been imposed in retaliation for the British occupation of Boston following the Boston Tea Party. This event became known as the "Annapolis Tea Party".

Background
In February 1770, the brig Good Intent arrived at Annapolis from London, bringing goods ordered by local merchants during 1769. Some of the orders had been placed before the local resolutions in June–July 1769, to boycott goods subject to British  tax under the "Townshend Acts" of 1767. The Customs collector at Annapolis would not allow any goods to be landed, even those not subject to tax, until the tax had been paid. The local committee supervising the boycott would not allow tax to be paid on any goods.  Merchants importing the goods, led by James Dick and his son-in-law Anthony Stewart, finally gave up, and sent Good Intent back to London, still fully loaded. Ironically, while Good Intent was in mid-Atlantic, the British government gave in to the boycott and removed  taxes on all goods—except tea. The Tea Act of 1773 allowed only one company, the British East India Company, to sell tea in America without paying tax, but such a one-sided deal seemed as unjust to Americans as the original taxes, eventually leading to the famous Boston Tea Party and, following British overreaction, to a widespread re-introduction of tea boycotts.

Ship and cargo
Most ships' captains refused to carry tea, but in the summer of 1774, one merchant, Thomas  Charles Williams, the London representative of an Annapolis family firm, thought he had found a cunning way around that problem.
 He loaded 2,320 pounds (about one ton) of tea, in 17 packages, aboard the brig Peggy Stewart, principally owned by Dick  and Stewart (business rivals to the Williams firm), which was about to make the Atlantic crossing. The worried captain, Richard Jackson, was told that the packages contained linen, but to avoid the possibility of being prosecuted for smuggling, Williams correctly identified the consignment as tea on his Customs declaration. Hence, when he was clearing Customs at the mouth of the River Thames (some distance from London) Jackson learned that he had been right to suspect the packages and that part of his cargo was going to cause major trouble in America. However, once declared to Customs officials in Britain, the tea had to be taken to its  appointed destination — preferably before the autumn gales began, for Peggy Stewart needed an overhaul and leaked quite badly.  That made the voyage most unpleasant for the main cargo: 53 indentured servants.

Arrival in Annapolis

The Peggy Stewart arrived at Annapolis on the morning of 14 October 1774, and Anthony Stewart was notified of the tax payable on one small part of  the cargo. He went immediately to Joseph and James Williams, Thomas's brothers and business partners, and informed them of the situation. Whatever Thomas had intended, his brothers had no interest in his mad scheme, so they refused to pay the tax, and arranged a meeting with the committee which supervised the tea boycott, to discuss the problem. Anthony Stewart feared a rerun of the Good Intent  case, for none of the cargo could come ashore until the tax had been paid on that tea tucked away in a corner of the hold—not even the  indentured servants.

Stewart knew they could not send the entire cargo back to London because it included the 53 indentured servants, who might easily die in the autumn storms. He therefore guaranteed payment of the  tax on the tea himself, got the servants ashore as soon as possible, and left the rest of the cargo aboard to await the committee's decision.

Negotiations
Only four of the committee were available for a meeting that afternoon, so they invited the public to contribute to the discussion, and it was  decided that all the cargo except the tea could be unloaded, 12 supervisors being appointed by the meeting to ensure that this stipulation was adhered to. A full committee meeting was then arranged for the morning of the following Wednesday, 19 October, and over five days, a great deal of politics occurred. On the one hand, Stewart and the two Williams brothers met with committee chairman Charles Carroll and  formulated an agreement that they would burn the tea and publish an apology in the Maryland Gazette. On the other hand, one committee member, Mathias Hammond, published a handbill on 15 October, denouncing Stewart (and omitting to mention that the Williams brothers themselves had been the ones who notified him of the tea importation), and stirred up a great deal of popular fervor. Thus the second committee meeting was thronged with people, many of whom had come specifically to make an example of the wicked Mr Stewart and his cronies.