[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267

ns website, "for example, by introducing RSS feeds, a map of the website and an internal search function."  Also a request for a hit counter – "to explore the technical modalities involved in introducing a tool to track the use of [the] website and ensure that it is fulfilling its intended purpose."

Individuals subject to sanctions
See articles for references
 Ezatullah Haqqani – the Taliban's Deputy Minister for Planning
 Ahmed Yusuf – A Somali-born Swedish citizen put on the list because of his affiliation with the wire transfer network al-Barakat.  Removed from the list on 24 August 2006 when all accusations were dropped.
 Mohamed Moumou – Swedish citizen of Moroccan descent added to the list on 7 December 2006, added at the request of the United States.
 Sa'ad Al-Faqih – Saudi dissident, possibly living in London, added to the list December 2004
 al-Haramain Foundation – A charity front based in Saudi Arabia for al-Qaeda, many of whose associates are in the Guantanamo Bay detention camp. Listed September 2004.
 Abdul Majeed al-Zindani – Yemeni academic scholar, added to list in February 2004.
 Khalid al-Fawwaz – Saudi national held captive in London, later extradited to the US and convicted of conspiring in the 1998 United States embassy bombings.
 Ali Sayyid Muhamed Mustafa al-Bakri – Former member of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, possibly remains in Afghanistan
 Hani al-Sibai – Egyptian living in London, added September 2005 at the request of the Egyptian government.
 Abousfian Abdelrazik – Sudanese-Canadian citizen, added to list at U.S. request without explanation, repeatedly cleared of terrorist ties, remains listed
 Anwar al-Awlaki – Yemeni-American citizen, linked to various terrorist plots and al-Qaeda
 Maulvi Ahmad Jan Akhund - Minister and provincial governor in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan, since then a key financier and logistics expert for the Haqqani Network, and Quetta Shura leader.
Masood Azhar

2010 lift
On 27 January 2010, a United Nations sanctions committee removed five former senior Taliban officials from its list of al-Qaeda and Taliban members in a move favoured by Afghan President Karzai. The decision means the five will no longer be subject to an international travel ban, assets freeze and arms embargo. The five men were all high-ranking members of the former Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan:
 Wakil Ahmad Muttawakil, former foreign minister.
 Fazal Mohammad, former deputy minister of commerce.
 Shams-us-Safa Aminzai, former Taliban foreign affairs press officer.
 Mohammad Musa Hottak, former deputy minister of planning.
 Abdul Hakim, former deputy minister of frontier affairs.

All had been added to the list in January or February 2001.

National offices responsible for implementation
In the United Kingdom the regime was implemented through the Financial Sanctions Unit of the Bank of England using the powers granted by the United Nations Act 1946. A number of individuals and their families have been swept up by the measures.

In the United States, the responsible agency is the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury.

See also
 List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1201 to 1300 (1998–2000)
 United Nations Security Council Resolution 1904 (2009)

References

External links
 
Text of the Resolution at undocs.org
 

 1267
United Nations Security Council sanctions regimes
Al-Qaeda
Taliban
 1267
 1267
1999 in Afghanistan
Terrorism laws
October 1999 events