[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Brussels Airlines

agreement in effect January 20, 2020 between Moscow-Sheremetyevo and Brussels.

Fleet

Current fleet
, Brussels Airlines operates an all-Airbus fleet, composed of the following aircraft:

Fleet development
Brussels Airlines previously operated six British Aerospace 146s which were withdrawn in 2008.

During 2010, two Airbus A319-100s joined Brussels Airlines' fleet. The first Airbus A320-200 joined the fleet in February 2011 and made its first commercial flight on 23 April 2011. With improving financial performance, rising cash reserves and a desire to reduce costs more rapidly, Brussels Airlines accelerated its fleet replacement plan by ordering 12 aircraft in August 2011. Six A319s, four A320s and two A330-200s were added to the fleet. This has completed the exit of Boeing aircraft from the fleet and accelerated the replacement of the Avro RJ85.

Starting 2016, Brussels Airlines began phasing out its Avro RJ100s and replaced them with the Airbus A320 family and wet-leased Sukhoi Superjets. This was completed by the end of 2017. However, Brussels Airlines announced in July 2018 it would terminate the Superjet wet-lease contracts earlier than planned. This is due to the longer downtimes of the aircraft in case of repairs compared to more common and less new types. The Superjets have been phased out since January 2019.

In mid-2021, Brussels Airlines announced that it will take delivery of three Airbus A320neo aircraft in 2023 to replace ageing A319-100's and aim to lower  emissions amongst its fleet.

Special liveries
Brussels Airlines launched a series of Belgian Icon special liveries on its Airbus A320 fleet, all representing things that are typically Belgian, including Rackham (a Tintin themed aircraft), Magritte (an ode to the famous surrealist artist René Magritte), Trident (the aircraft for the Belgium national football team) and Amare (Tomorrowland Festival theme). On 24 March 2018 the airline introduced an additional aircraft themed to The Smurfs. In spring 2019 an additional aircraft was dedicated to the famous Flemish painter Bruegel.
The Magritte special livery was repainted in a Star Alliance livery in May 2021.

Services

Frequent-flyer programmes
Brussels Airlines uses Miles & More, Lufthansa's frequent flyer programme. Miles can be earned on flights operated by airlines which are part of the programme, in addition to flights operated by Star Alliance airlines.
Miles can also be earned with Brussels Airlines' non-airline partners.

On 19 October 2015, Brussels Airlines launched a new customer programme called LOOP, which is available for all flights in the airline's network. LOOP is designed for the increasing number of customers who fly Brussels Airlines regularly and do not receive significant benefits from traditional frequent flyer programmes. The LOOP programme was discontinued on 1 February 2020.

In-flight entertainment
Brussels Airlines offers two in-flight magazines. For the European network, there is b-there! which is a monthly magazine. On the African network, the magazine is named B Spirit Magazine, which is published every two months. The magazines are also available as a freely downloadable application for Apple iPad.

From November 2011 until the end of 2012 Brussels Airlines introduced a new interior on the A330 fleet. The new economy seats feature AVOD personal in-flight entertainment 9 inch screens. Additionally, business class has new lie-flat seats with an improved AVOD IFE system with 15 inch screens, supplied by the IMS-Company and known as "RAVE".

Tariff structure

On European flights 
The airline offers 5 different ticket types, and they are as follows:
 Economy Light is a low-cost fare, without checked-in luggage and with a buy on board program offering snacks and drinks for purchase.
 Economy Classic is a regular economy class with a buy on board program offering snacks and drinks for purchase.
 Economy Flex is an economy plus class with a buy on board program offering snacks and drinks for purchase, fast lane at security, change flexibility and priority boarding.
 Business Saver is a full-service business class on the European network. It offers premium meals, free champagne and some flexibility.
 Business Flex is identical to the Business Saver travel class, with additional flexibility, such as a fully refunable ticket, and the option to take an earlier flight on the same day of travel (depending on availability).

On medium-haul and long-haul flights (to Africa and North America) 
Brussels Airlines offers a variety of different fares depending on the travel class.

Economy class