[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Noolaham Foundation

cess and developed its Roadmap 2020 with the emphasis on institutionalization, global transformation, and observance of ethical and professional standards. Initiatives were taken to form global chapters of Noolaham Foundation and streamline its operations.

Mission, Objectives and Guiding Principles

Mission 
Document and preserve knowledge, properties and values of all spheres related to Sri Lankan Tamil Speaking communities, make such knowledge accessible to all and capacitate communities to engage in knowledge building and learning.

Objectives 

 Document, preserve and digitally archive ethnography and knowledge bases of mainstream and marginalized communities including dialects, belief systems, myths, rituals, folklore, games, indigenous medicine, law and administrative systems, technologies and arts.

 Engage in and support preservation and digital archiving of written, print, multi-media and electronic resources related to Sri Lankan Tamil speaking communities.

 Provide knowledge and information services to ensure free and open access, thereby supporting educational, research and development endeavors related to Sri Lankan Tamil speaking communities.

 Build communities of practice, processes, technologies and standards of archival, library and information sciences through communication, networking and collaboration.

Guiding Principles 

 Unity: Entities of Noolaham Foundation shall exist in different geographical, legal and political territories. Noolaham Foundation always ensures unity in its strategic framework, design, program, budget and communications.

 Diversity: Diversity, exclusivity and pluralism are at the core of our mission. Noolaham Foundation recognizes and energetically affirms the dignity of those it serves, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, social background, religion/irreligion, place of origin, age, socio-economic status, physical or mental capabilities. Noolaham Foundation is committed to these values in its organizational governance, programs and collections.

 Openness: As the driving force of Noolaham Foundation is centered on open data, open access and open knowledge, it does not charge end-users for accessing its archives. End-users should not use the contents for individual or corporate economic gain.

 Transparency: Noolaham Foundation strives to be open and transparent in all of its operations. Our commitment includes detailed accounting, project and annual reports, timely dissemination of information and responsiveness to requests for information.

 Unbiased: Noolaham Foundation is an unbiased entity. While it engages volunteers from different political thoughts and parties, it does not allow volunteers to use Noolaham Foundation for their political engagement and leverage. Noolaham Foundation shall take appropriate measures to prevent it from being politicized or labeled.

 Volunteerism: Volunteerism is the basis for all Noolaham Foundation operations. The Annual Work Plan will be formulated emphasizing volunteer contribution in order to optimize the operational overheads and performance targets for each team.

 Collaboration: Noolaham promotes synergy among similar organizations in digital documentation and preservation, thereby avoiding duplication and repetition of work. Noolaham Foundation shall collaborate with institutions when such collaboration optimizes Noolaham's productivity.

 Participation: Broadening and strengthening the participation of the stakeholders of Noolaham Foundation is part and parcel of the Noolaham culture. It consults with stakeholders regarding policies and decisions that affect the business of Noolaham Foundation.

Chapters 
Noolaham Foundation has registered Chapters in Canada, UK and Norway.

In addition, Noolaham Foundation receives key contributors from Australia, US and Switzerland.

Organizational Structure 
Noolaham Foundation is a community digital library and a community digital archive. Community leadership, stewardship and ownership are key organizing principles for the organization. Noolaham Foundation encourages a collaborative-leadership framework whereby contributors lead one another to achieve organizational and community goals. We steward community resources consciously to support social justice and knowledge based community development of all the communities we serve.