[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Harmonic map

nt space . By the definition of the trace operator, the laplacian may be written as

where  is any -orthonormal basis of .

Dirichlet energy and its variation formulas
From the perspective of local coordinates, as given above, the energy density of a mapping  is the real-valued function on  given by

Alternatively, in the bundle formalism, the Riemannian metrics on  and  induce a bundle metric on , and so one may define the energy density as the smooth function  on . It is also possible to consider the energy density as being given by (half of) the -trace of the first fundamental form. Regardless of the perspective taken, the energy density  is a function on  which is smooth and nonnegative. If  is oriented and  is compact, the Dirichlet energy of  is defined as

where  is the volume form on  induced by . Since any nonnegative measurable function has a well-defined Lebesgue integral, it is not necessary to place the restriction that  is compact; however, then the Dirichlet energy could be infinite.

The variation formulas for the Dirichlet energy compute the derivatives of the Dirichlet energy  as the mapping  is deformed. To this end, consider a one-parameter family of maps  with  for which there exists a precompact open set  of  such that  for all ; one supposes that the parametrized family is smooth in the sense that the associated map  given by  is smooth.
 The first variation formula says that

There is also a version for manifolds with boundary.
 There is also a second variation formula.
Due to the first variation formula, the Laplacian of  can be thought of as the gradient of the Dirichlet energy; correspondingly, a harmonic map is a critical point of the Dirichlet energy. This can be done formally in the language of global analysis and Banach manifolds.

Examples of harmonic maps
Let  and  be smooth Riemannian manifolds. The notation  is used to refer to the standard Riemannian metric on Euclidean space.
 Every totally geodesic map  is harmonic; this follows directly from the above definitions. As special cases:
 For any  in , the constant map  valued at  is harmonic.
 The identity map  is harmonic.
 If  is an immersion, then  is harmonic if and only if  is minimal relative to . As a special case:
 If  is a constant-speed immersion, then  is harmonic if and only if  solves the geodesic differential equation.
 Recall that if  is one-dimensional, then minimality of  is equivalent to  being geodesic, although this does not imply that it is a constant-speed parametrization, and hence does not imply that  solves the geodesic differential equation.
 A smooth map  is harmonic if and only if each of its  component functions are harmonic as maps . This coincides with the notion of harmonicity provided by the Laplace-Beltrami operator.
 Every holomorphic map between Kähler manifolds is harmonic.
 Every harmonic morphism between Riemannian manifolds is harmonic.

Harmonic map heat flow

Well-posedness
Let  and  be smooth Riemannian manifolds. A harmonic map heat flow on an interval  assigns to each  in  a twice-differentiable map  in such a way that, for each  in , the map  given by  is differentiable, and its derivative at a given value of  is, as a vector in , equal to . This is usually abbreviated as:

Eells and Sampson introduced the harmonic map heat flow and proved the following fundamental properties:
 Regularity. Any harmonic map heat flow is smooth as a map  given by .
Now suppose that  is a closed manifold and  is geodesically complete.
 Existence. Given a continuously differentiable map  from  to , there exists a positive number  and a harmonic map heat flow  on the interval  such that  converges to  in the  topology as  decreases to 0.
 Uniqueness. If  and  are two harmonic map heat flows as in the existence theorem, then  whenever .
As a consequence of the uniqueness theorem, there exists a maximal harmonic map heat flow with initial data , meaning that one has a harmonic map heat flow  as in the statement of the existence theorem, and it is uniquely defined under the extra criterion that  takes on its maximal possible value, which could be infinite.

Eells and Sampson's theorem
The primary result of Eells and Sampson's 1964 paper is the following:

In particular, this shows that, under the assumptions on  and , every continuous map is homotopic to a harmonic map. The very existence of a harmonic map in each homotopy class, which is implicitly being asserted, is part of the result. Shortly after Eells and Sampson's work, Philip Hartman extended their methods to study uniqueness of harmonic maps within homotopy classes, additionally showing that the convergence in the Eells−Sampson theorem is strong, without the need to select a subsequence. Eells and Sampson's result was adapted by Richard Hamilton to the setting of the Dirichlet boundary value problem, when  is instead compact with nonempty boundary.