[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sustainable Development Strategy in Canada

t system are performed;
Obsolete documents need to be promptly removed from all points of issue and points of use, or otherwise assured against unintended use; and
The obsolete documents should be retained for legal and/or knowledge preservation purposes are suitably identified.

Operational control

The organization should identify those operations and activities that are associated with the identified significant environmental aspects in line with its policy, objectives and targets.  They should plan these activities, including maintenance, in order to ensure that they are carried out under specified conditions by:

Establishing and maintaining documented procedures to cover situations where their absence could lead to deviations from the environmental policy and the objectives and targets;
Stipulating operating criteria in the procedures; and
Establishing and maintaining procedures related to the identifiable significant environmental aspects of goods and services used by the organization and communicating relevant procedures and requirements to suppliers and contractors.

Emergency preparedness and response

The organization should establish and maintain procedures to identify the potential for and respond to environmental disasters, accidents and emergency situations and for preventing and mitigating the environmental impacts that may be associated with them.  The organization should review and revise, where necessary, its emergency preparedness and response procedures, in particular, after the occurrence of accidents or emergency situations.

Monitoring and measurement

The organization should establish and maintain documented procedures to monitor and measure, on a regular basis, the key characteristics of its operations and activities that can have a significant impact on the environment. This would entail a requirement to establish and maintain documented procedures for periodically evaluating compliance with relevant environmental legislation and regulations.

Non-conformance and corrective and preventive action

The organization needs to establish and maintain procedures for identifying responsibility and authority for handling and investigating nonconformance, taking action to mitigate any environmental impacts caused and for initiating and completing corrective and preventative action.

Records

Establish and maintain procedures for the identification, maintenance, and dispositions of environmental records. These records should include training records and the results of audits and reviews.

Internal audit

The organization should establish and maintain programs and procedures for periodic EMS internal audits to be carried out, in order to determine whether or not the EMS functions according to policies and procedures and provide information on the results of audits to management.  The internal audit program, including any schedule, should be based on the environmental importance of the activity concerned and the results of previous audits. In order to be comprehensive, the audit procedures should cover the audit scope, frequency, and methodologies, as well as the responsibilities and requirements for conducting audits and reporting results.

Management review
Senior management should, at reasonable time intervals review the EMS, to ensure its continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness. The management review process should ensure that the necessary information is collected to allow management to carry out this evaluation. This review should be documented.  The management review should address the possible need for changes to policy, objectives and other elements of the environmental management system, in light of EMS audit results, changing circumstances and the commitments to continual improvement.

Human resources

Sustainable human resources practices encourage working arrangements that support environmental objectives, the provision of environmental awareness into all training programs, and the promotion of environmental practices.

Training, awareness and competence

There is a requirement to identify training needs. It should require that all personnel, whose work may create a significant impact on the environment, have appropriate training.  It should establish and maintain procedures to make its employees or members at each relevant function and level aware of:

The importance of conformance with the environmental policy and procedures and with the requirements of the environmental management system;
The significant environmental impacts, actual or potential, of their work activities and the environmental benefits of improved personal performance;
Their roles and responsibilities in achieving conformance with the environmental policy and procedures and with the requirements of the environmental management system, including emergency preparedness and response requirements; and
The potential consequences of departure from specified operating procedures.