[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ITV Studios

Media Group, Palomar and Indiana Production.

In 2017, American horror film production company Blumhouse Productions sold a 45% stake in their independent television studio Blumhouse Television to ITV. Blumhouse is known for their globally successful films such as Paranormal Activity and Insidious.

On 1 October 2019, ITV Studios restructured their entire distribution business. The Creative Network division, led by Mike Beale, consists of all of ITVS' unscripted format labels in and outside the United Kingdom, including recently acquired Israeli company Armoza Formats. The Global Entertainment division, based in the Netherlands, focuses on international sales of ITVS' unscripted formats. As a result, Talpa Media became defunct while Talpa Global was absorbed into the Global Entertainment division. The Global Distribution division will handle ITVS' drama and finished-tape catalogue as well as co-financing, co-production and production of scripted series.

On 1 July 2020, ITV Studios announced a music partnership with BMG Rights Management (the sister company to ITV Studios' rival Fremantle via both companies' parent Bertelsmann), which includes a joint venture production music label.

On 28 April 2021, ITV Studios expanded into Spain with the launch of Cattleya Producciones, an offshoot of their Italian subsidiary Cattleya.

Output

ITV Studios is a major commercial TV producer in the UK, creating over 3,500 hours of original programming each year across all genres except news. Its network programmes include, or have included, Coronation Street, Emmerdale, Heartbeat, Marple and Agatha Christie's Poirot, Brainiac: Science Abuse, I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!, Parkinson, Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway, Tonight, The Jeremy Kyle Show and This Morning.

ITV Studios also produces programmes for other UK broadcasters outside of its own network. These include the BBC, Channel 4, Channel 5 and Sky. ITV Studios is based in London and Manchester, with the centre in Leeds now only home to Emmerdale and Shiver Productions (formerly Yorkshire-Tyne Tees Television's then Granada Productions' northern features department).  The production centres in Bristol and Norwich closed in 2006 and 2012 respectively. ITV Studios also owns So Television after acquiring Graham Norton's production company in 2012.  On 22 April 2013, ITV announced they had acquired production company The Garden for £18 million; which is best known for producing Channel 4 series 24 Hours in A&E. In 2013, ITV launched a new production company named Potato. 2016 saw ITV Studios secure a four-year British horse racing deal which saw the Cheltenham Festival, Grand National and Royal Ascot all be shown on ITV.

Since 14 January 2013, the ITV logo has been added to the opening credits of the majority of ITV Studios-produced shows airing on ITV's channels, similar to the BBC.

Production franchises of ITV Studios

In 2004, a duopoly had formed, and Granada owned six franchises, whilst Carlton Communications owned five. Granada bought a 64% controlling stake and took over Carlton in 2004 with the amalgamation of ITV. Consequently, programmes produced by all divisions were referred to as 'A Granada Manchester Production', 'A Granada London Production', etc., at the end of credits. ITV Studios comprises the network production divisions from its following predecessor companies:
ITV Anglia
ITV Central formerly Carlton Central, Central Independent Television and ATV.
ITV Granada
ITV Wales & West (formerly HTV) – including its former subsidiary, Harvest Entertainment.
ITV London (Carlton Television and London Weekend Television)
ITV Meridian
ITV Tyne Tees
ITV Yorkshire
ITV Breakfast (formerly GMTV)

ITV Border and ITV Westcountry rarely contributed network programmes, so were largely unaffected by the creation of ITV Studio except for the closure of their local news studios. Whilst continuing to present local programming, these are produced from Gateshead and Bristol respectively.

Local operations

12 Yard Productions
12 Yard was founded in 2001 by David Young and the creative team behind the worldwide hit Weakest Link and Hat Trick Productions. The company was originally operated as a joint-venture until December 2007, when ITV acquired the company for £35 million.

12 Yard has gone on to become one of the world's most successful entertainment format creators, producing hit formats including the BBC's long-running early evening quiz Eggheads, Saturday night BBC One lottery formats The National Lottery: In it to Win it and Who Dares Wins!, primetime feel-good format Holding out for a Hero, Take on the Twisters and Big Star's Little Star for ITV and Coach Trip for Channel 4.

Currently, as of 2022, 12 Yard currently produce shows such as Celebrity Coach Trip for E4, a revival of Eggheads for Channel 5, and the British version of ITV Studios/John de Mol's Let Love Rule format for ITV2, under the local name of The Cabins.