[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# May 1974

he bus, traveling from Chicago to Memphis, sideswiped an overturned truck, tearing the right side of the bus open.
Born: Simon Aspelin, Swedish tennis player; in Saltsjöbaden
Died: Eleanor Tennant, 79, American tennis player who was the first female player to turn professional

May 12, 1974 (Sunday)

Voters in Italy overwhelmingly favored keeping the right to divorce as they went to the polls in the first referendum in the history of the Italian republic. In balloting on Sunday and Monday, voters were asked to vote yes or no on the question, "Do you want the Law of 1 December 1970, No. 898, on the regulation of cases of dissolution of marriage, to be abrogated?", and although more than 13 million voted yes, over 19 million voted no, and the matter failed by a margin of 59% to 41%.
The Republic of Iraq executed five Kurdish activists by hanging, including Leyla Qasim, after the group had been convicted in a nationally televised trial on charges of attempting to hijack an airplane and to kill President Saddam Hussein.
With the best four of seven championship of the National Basketball Association tied at 3 games apiece, the Boston Celtics defeated the host Milwaukee Bucks, 102 to 87, to win the title. 
Australian John Newcombe won the $50,000 World Championship of Tennis (WCT) final over Swedish teenager Björn Borg, after losing the first set and then sweeping the next three of the best 4-of-7 match. The score was 4-6, 6-3, 6-3, 6-2.
Brazilian driver Emerson Fittipaldi won the 1974 Belgian Grand Prix at Nivelles-Baulers.
Born: Manoj Gajurel, Nepalese comedian and TV star; in Khebang 
Died:
Trudy Goth, 60, German-born American dancer and writer, died of cancer.
Georges Hirsch, 79, former and director of the Paris Opera
Wayne Maki, 29, Canadian NHL player for the Vancouver Canucks, whose career had ended during the 1972-1973 NHL season when he was diagnosed with brain cancer.

May 13, 1974 (Monday)
By a margin of 29 for and 51 against, the United States Senate rejected a bill filed by Senator Bob Dole of Kansas to allow states to raise the U.S. highway speed limit from  to .
KMS Industries of Ann Arbor, Michigan, announced the achievement of nuclear fusion on a small scale using laser light.
In the U.S. state of New York, Mohawk residents of the St. Regis Mohawk Reservation in Franklin County and of Canada's Akwesasne 59 Mohawk Nation reserve began an occupation of the abandoned Moss Lake Girl Scouts camp near Old Forge, New York, in Herkimer County, reclaiming it as traditional Mohawk land. 
Died:
Vern Knudsen, 80, American physicist and acoustical engineer, known for the application of acoustical design to architecture.
Lu Han, 79, Chinese general who defected from Taiwan to the People's Republic of China
Denny Shute, 69, U.S. professional golfer who won the British Open in 1933 and the PGA championship in 1936 and 1937
Jaime Torres Bodet, 72, Mexican public servant and former Director-General of UNESCO, shot himself to death.
Khuda Buksh, 62, Bengali insurance entrepreneur

May 14, 1974 (Tuesday)
Dr. Donald Coggan, the Archbishop of York, was appointed as the new Archbishop of Canterbury by Queen Elizabeth II on the recommendation of Prime Minister Harold Wilson.
Portugal's new government, installed during the Carnation Revolution, issued Law No. 2/74, abolishing the bicameral parliament of the Estado Novo, to be replaced by the unicameral Assembleia da República to be elected in 1975.
In Central Park in New York City, 13-year-old John F. Kennedy Jr.  was mugged by a boy of around 18, who took the young Kennedy's bicycle and tennis racket.
Died: Jacob L. Moreno, 82, Romanian-born American psychiatrist, pioneer in group psychotherapy  and developer (with his wife, psychologist Zerka T. Moreno, of the technique of psychodrama.