[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Baton Bob

shion show in Atlanta at Grady High School during Atlanta Fashion Week. The line was titled "Pecan Pie Couture" by designer Clint Ziegler, as a benefit of the high school's "UrbanCouture" fashion design program, and featured many southern inspired designs, which Baton Bob was proud to help show off.

He appeared on the cover of Creative Loafing's May 24–30 issue: "Hunting for Atlanta's Treasures SUMMER GUIDE '07," to honor the character. The same year, he was selected "grand marshal" of the Inman Park Festival Parade. In Creative Loafing's "BEST OF ATLANTA 2007", he was voted best in three categories: Best Local Hero, Best Local Celebrity and Best Street Character.

In 2008, he was selected by 10Best.com Travel Guides as one of the Atlanta Colorful Characters He was a 2008 10Best Bet award winners.

During January 2008, he participated in the "Doggies on the Catwalk", a pet fashion show at Grady High School. The event was produced by Grady's fashion program Urban Couture, featuring other local celebs with their pets, as a benefit for Pets Are Loving Support.

He participated in the official opening reception for the 2008 Special Events Tradeshow held at The World Of Coke Pavilon. He has presided as Master Of Ceremonies for radio station 99X's "2008 Mardi Gras Ball" at Club OPERA.  In June 2008, he was featured on Revision3's Internet Superstar.

At 5:06 PM, on November 6, 2013, he twirled his way through a reporter's live WSB-TV appearance.

2013 arrest and eventual marriage
On June 26, 2013, in the wake of several Supreme Court decisions that favored same sex marriage, Baton Bob performed in a wedding dress in Midtown Atlanta. Several police officers asked him to leave, and he refused, allegedly kicking one of the officers. According to Baton Bob, an officer then logged on to Baton Bob's Facebook account and posted a pro-police message reading, in part, "I want to verify, that the Atlanta police was respectful to me considering the circumstances". The charges were later dismissed, and the officer who posted the message resigned; his lieutenant was disciplined for "violating the responsibilities of a supervisor".

Baton Bob filed a federal civil rights lawsuit against the city. Although the city released a statement calling Baton Bob's claims "baseless", they offered a $20,000 settlement.

On June 26, 2015, two years to the day after the arrest, Baton Bob married local chef Gary Bender in a ceremony that had been long planned for that day. Their wedding happened to fall on the same date that the Supreme Court announced its decision legalizing same-sex marriage nationwide.

References

Year of birth missing (living people)
Living people
People from Martinsville, Virginia
Artists from St. Louis
Artists from Atlanta
African-American LGBT people
21st-century American LGBT people