[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 121]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

h clear eyes. She
struggled to get round and beyond that past-fashioned self, not merely
in order to see truly, but in order to see at all. And in doing so, she
ran the risk of letting go what she might have done better to hold. She
felt painfully different from these people among whom she found herself.
Her very trick of pondering over things sent her spinning to hopeless
distances. They seemed to ponder so wholesomely little. Their
intelligence was devoted to matters of the moment; they were keen and
well-finished and accomplished. Hadria used to look at them in
astonishment. How did these quick-witted people manage to escape the
importunate inquisitive demon, the familiar spirit, who pursued her
incessantly with his queries and suggestions? He would stare up from
river and street and merry gardens; his haunting eyes looked mockingly
out of green realms of stirring foliage, and his voice was like a
sardonic echo to the happy voices of the children, laughing at their
play under the flickering shadows, of mothers discussing their cares and
interests, of men in blouses, at work by the water-side, or solemn, in
frock-coats, with pre-occupations of business and bread-winning. The
demon had his own reflections on all these seemingly ordinary matters,
and so bizarre were they at times, so startling and often so terrible,
that one found oneself shivering in full noontide, or smiling, or
thrilled with passionate pity at "the sad, strange ways of men."

It was sweet to stretch one's cramped wings to the sun, to ruffle and
spread them, as a released bird will, but it was startling to find
already little stiff habits arisen, little creaks and hindrances never
suspected, that made flight in the high air not quite effortless and
serene.

The Past is never past; immortal as the Gods, it lives enthroned in the
Present, and sets its limits and lays its commands.

Cases have been known of a man blind from birth being restored to sight,
at mature age. For a time, the appearance of objects was strange and
incomprehensible. Their full meaning was not conveyed to him; they
remained riddles. He could not judge the difference between near and
far, between solid and liquid; he had no experience, dating from
childhood, of the apparent smallness of distant things, of the connexion
between the impression given to the touch by solids and their effect on
the eye. He had all these things to learn. A thousand trifling
associations, of which those with normal senses are scarcely conscious,
had to be stumblingly acquired, as a child learns to connect sound and
sight, in learning to read.

Such were the changes of consciousness that Hadria found herself going
through; only realising each phase of the process after it was over, and
the previous confusion of vision had been itself revealed, by the newly
and often painfully acquired co-ordinating skill.

But, as generally happens, in the course of passing from ignorance to
knowledge, the intermediate stage was chaotic. Objects loomed up large
and indistinct, as through a mist; vague forms drifted by, half
revealed, to melt away again; here and there were clear outlines and
solid impressions, to be deemed trustworthy and given a place of honour;
thence a disproportion in the general conception; it being almost beyond
human power to allow sufficiently for that which is unknown.

For some time, however, the dominant impression on Hadria's mind was of
her own gigantic ignorance. This ignorance was far more confusing and
even misleading than it had been when its proportions were less defined.
The faint twinkle of light revealed the dusky outline, bewildering and
discouraging the imagination. Intuitive knowledge was disturbed by the
incursion of scraps of disconnected experience. This condition of mind
made her an almost insoluble psychological problem. Since she was
evidently a woman of pronounced character, her bewilderment and
tentative attitude were not allowed for. Her actions were regarded as
deliberate and cool-headed, when often they would be the outcome of
sheer confusion, or chance, or perhaps of a groping experimental effort.

The first three weeks in Paris had been given up to enjoying the new
conditions of existence. But now practical matters claimed consideration.
The _pension_ in the Rue Boissy d'Anglas was not suitable as a permanent
abode. Rooms must be looked for, combining cheapness with a good situation,
within easy distance of the scene of Hadria's future musical studies, and
also within reach of some park or gardens for Martha's benefit.

This ideal place of abode was at last found. It cost rather more than
Hadria had wished to spend on mere lodging, but otherwise it seemed
perfect. It was in a quiet street between the Champs Elysées and the
river. Two great thoroughfares ran, at a respectful distance, on either
side, with omnibuses always passing. Hadria could be set down within a
few minutes' wa