[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Saudi Arabia v. Nelson

brought by Mr. and Mrs. Nelson was not “based upon a commercial activity” according to the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 (section 1605(a)(2)). The Court of Appeals judgment was thereby reversed, thus restoring the trial courts dismissal based upon a “lack of subject-matter jurisdiction”.

The court reasoned that the tortious acts of the defendant were not “based upon a commercial activity”, therefore not in violation of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976. The defendant's conduct, however heinous, could not be classified as being “based upon a commercial activity”. The tortious conduct rather is a gross abuse of state police power, which is an act only performed by sovereign states. Only States perform acts such as unlawful detention of private citizens, torture, conduct foreign engagements, and diplomatic relations. Private citizens cannot participate in acts of State.

Concurrences
Justice White and Justice Blackmun concur with Justice Souter's majority opinion with one caveat. The justices disagree that the defendant's tortious conduct was not “based upon a commercial activity”, but nonetheless concur with the majority judgment because the commercial acts did not occur in the US.

Dissents
Justice Kennedy believes the wrongful acts perpetrated by the defendant do constitute commercial activity. Under FSIA, the Saudi Government's operation of the hospital, employment practices, and disciplinary procedures were “based upon commercial activity” and therefore the plaintiff has proven the court does have jurisdiction.

Additionally, unlike Justice White, he believes the defendant's commercial activities did have adequate contact within the United States to fulfill an immunity exception under the FSIA.

See also
 List of United States Supreme Court cases
 List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 507
 List of United States Supreme Court cases by the Rehnquist Court

External links

United States Constitution Article Three case law
United States Supreme Court cases
United States Supreme Court cases of the Rehnquist Court
1993 in United States case law
Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act case law
Saudi Arabia–United States relations
Torture in Saudi Arabia
HCA Healthcare