[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences

fe Centre
NIMHANS Health Centre
NIMHANS Integrated Centre for Yoga
NIMHANS Gymkhana
Nutrition and Dietetics Centre
Physiotherapy Centre
NIMHANS Digital Academy
NIMHANS Convention Centre
NIMHANS Gymkhana
WHO Collaborating Centre for Injury Prevention and Safety Promotion

Academics

Academic programs

Doctor of Philosophy
(a) Institute Fellowship
 Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology                
 Ph.D. in Neurophysiology                    
 Ph.D. in Psychiatric Social Work                
 Ph.D. in Speech Pathology & Audiology             
 Ph.D. in Biostatistics
 Ph.D. in Clinical Neurosciences (ICMR Fellowship)
   
(b) External Fellowship
 Ph.D. in Biophysics  
 Ph.D. in Biostatistics  
 Ph.D. in Child & Adolescent Psychiatry  
 Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology  
 Ph.D. in Human Genetics  
 Ph.D. in Neurochemistry  
 Ph.D. in Neuroimaging & Interventional Radiology  
 Ph.D. in Neurological Rehabilitation  
 Ph.D. in Neurology    
 Ph.D. in Neuroimaging & Interventional Radiology
 Ph.D. in Neuromicrobiology  
 Ph.D. in Neuropathology  
 Ph.D. in Neurophysiology  
 Ph.D. in Neurovirology  
 Ph.D. in Nursing   
 Ph.D. in Psychiatric Social Work  
 Ph.D. in Mental Health Rehabilitation  
 Ph.D. in Psychiatry
 Ph.D. in History of Psychiatry
 Ph.D. in Clinical Psychopharmacology & Neurotoxicolog  
 Ph.D. in Speech Pathology & Audiology

Super Speciality Medicine Courses
 DM in Neuroimaging and Interventional Radiology
 DM in Neurology (Post MBBS)
 DM in Neurology (Post MD/DNB)              
 DM in Child & Adolescent Psychiatry
 DM in Addiction Psychiatry
 DM in Forensic Psychiatry
 DM in Geriatric Psychiatry
 DM in Neuroanaesthesia & Neurocritical Care
 DM in Neuropathology
 M.Ch. in Neurosurgery (Post MBBS)                 
 M.Ch. in Neurosurgery (Post MS/DNB)

Post-graduate Degree/Fellowship
 MD in Psychiatry    
 Fellowship in Psychosocial Support in Disaster Management
 Fellowship in Geriatric Mental Health Care
 Fellowship in Mental Health Education
 Fellowship in Geriatric Mental Health Nursing
 Fellowship in Psychiatric Rehabilitation
 Fellowship in Psychosocial Care for elderly
 M.Phil. in Biophysics
 M.Phil. in Clinical Psychology
 M.Phil. in Neurophysiology
 M.Phil. in Neurosciences
 M.Phil. in Psychiatric Social work   
 Masters in Public Health
 M.Sc. in Psychiatric Nursing
 M.Sc. in Biostatistics

Post-doctoral Fellowship
 Child & Adolescent Psychiatry                      
 Neuroanaesthesia                              
 Neurocritical Care                         
 Neuroinfection                              
 Hospital Infection Control                                                   
 Epilepsy                              
 Movement Disorders                          
 Neuromuscular Disorder                      
 Stroke                           
 Neuropathology
 Paediatric Neurology                          
 Transfusion Medicine                            
 Neurological Rehabilitation                        
 Acute Care & Emergency Psychiatry                
 Community Mental Health                    
 Addiction Medicine
 Forensic Psychiatry                    
 Consultation Liaison Psychiatry                
 Geriatric Psychiatry                        
 Obsessive Compulsive disorder & related disorders        
 Clinical Neurosciences & Therapeutics in Schizophrenia
 Non-Invasive Brain Stimulation of Psychiatric disorders
 Cognitive Neurosciences
 Women's Mental Health

Undergraduate Courses

B.Sc Nursing
B.Sc Anaesthesia Technology
B.Sc Radiography
B.Sc Clinical Neurophysiology Technology

Rankings

The National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences has been ranked 4th among medical institution in India by the National Institutional Ranking Framework medical ranking for 2022.

Mental Health Outreach 
NIMHANS experts criticized a report on mental health in India published by the World Health Organization. The head of the psychiatry department, S K Chaturvedi, said that the figures by the WHO were highly inflated. Where, in the report, it alleges that 36% of Indians suffer from depression, the highest among all the countries, the NIMHANS faculty state that the incidence of depression is much lower due to a stronger social support system and family structure. However, the lifetime prevalence of depression in India measured by the study was only 9%, and the figure of 36% was a different metric that was mistakenly reported.
In May 2015, the faculty association of the institute lodged criticism against the 'Juvenile Justice Bill' which was tabled in parliament. Preeti Jacob, from the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, was quoted as saying "Juveniles are less culpable and are much more amenable to rehabilitative efforts and thus should not be transferred to the adult criminal justice system. The assessments that are being proposed in the bill in order to ascertain the mental capacity to commit an offence are arbitrary and unscientific."