[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Senate of Kazakhstan

hair is nominated by the President of Kazakhstan.

Mäulen Äşimbaev is the current Chair of the Senate.

Deputy Chair of the Senate 

The Senate Chair has two Deputy Chairs who carry out tasks that are made by the Chair. The Deputy Chairs are elected by the Senate MP's who are nominated by the Chair.

There are two Deputy Chairs of the Senate who are Asqar Şäkirov and Nurlan Äbdirov.

Rights, Requirements, and Responsibilities of Senators

A member of the Parliament must be a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan who has been a permanent resident on its territory over the last ten years.

To hold office Senators have to be at least 30 years of age with higher education and 5 years of work experience, permanently residing on the territory of the particular region, city of republican significance or the capital of the Republic for at least 3 years.

Powers of a member of the Parliament commence from the moment of his/her registration as a member of the Parliament by the Central Election Commission of the Republic.

At the first session of Parliament at joint session of its Chambers MPs take oath to the people of Kazakhstan: "I do solemnly swear to truly serve the people of Kazakhstan, to strengthen integrity and independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, to abide strictly by its Constitution and laws, to carry out honestly the high duties of an MP assigned to me".

Administration of the oath is done by the President at a ceremony in the presence of members of the Government, the Constitutional Council, judges of the Supreme Court, ex-presidents of the Republic.

Senators, along with all other MPs, must participate in the work of the Parliament and its bodies; they may only vote in person.

Member of the Senate exercises the right of a decisive vote on all issues considered at sessions of Parliament and its bodies of which he/she is a member.

Senators have the rights to:
 elect and be elected to working bodies of the Parliament and the Senate;
 make proposals and comments concerning the session agenda, the procedure and content of discussed issues;
 express opinion on nominations elected or appointed by the Senate of Parliament or consent to the appointments made by the Parliament and the Senate;
 submit proposals to Bureau of the Chamber regarding issues at a joint session of the Chambers of the Parliament and at a Senate session of the Parliament and if his/her proposals are turned down - submit them for the Senate's consideration;
 submit issues for consideration at gatherings of working bodies of the Parliament and of the Senate of Parliament;
 propose to hold a hearing by the officials accountable to Chambers of Parliament at a joint session of Parliament;
 make MP inquiries in the order established by the law;
 participate in debates, to make queries to speakers, and also to the chairperson;
 present arguments upon his/her voting in favor of certain amendments and share information;
 make amendments to draft bills, resolutions, other decrees accepted by Parliament;
 inform members of Parliament about appeals of public significance from citizens;
 see texts of MP speeches in shorthand reports and minutes of Parliament's session;
 request information and documents necessary for his/her activity from state bodies and officials; state bodies and officials should provide MPs with requested documents and materials with consideration of secrets protected by law;
 exercise other powers according to the present Constitutional Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the status of MPs", rules of Parliament and of its Chambers.

Parliamentary activities 
Standing committees of the Senate within the scope of their competence are free to choose forms and methods of activity, interact with state bodies and public unions, examine and take into account public opinion, hold parliamentary hearings, government hours, conferences, round tables, meetings, presentations and other parliamentary events.

Committees of the Senate hold visiting sessions across regions in order to examine public opinion on bills under consideration by the Parliament and other pressing issues.

MPs visit for their or other regions quarterly and meet with different groups of people, get acquainted with the situation on the fields, answer citizens' questions, comment on major provisions of laws adopted by the Parliament.

Standing committees
 Committee on Constitutional Legislation, Judicial System and Law Enforcement Bodies
 Committee on Finance and Budget
 Committee on International Relations, Defense and Security
 Committee on Economic Development and Entrepreneurship
 Committee on Social and Culture Development and Science
 Committee on Exploitation of Natural Resources and Development of Rural Areas

MPs' inquiries and questions