[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Anglican Episcopal Church of Brazil

ists of nine dioceses, each headed by a bishop, one of whom is elected as Primate Bishop. The 30th General Synod of the church, held in July 2006, elevated the Amazon mission as the ninth diocese of the province and grouped the dioceses and the missionary district of the province into three regions.

 Anglican Diocese of the Amazon
 Headed by Bishop Marinez Rosa dos Santos Bassotto, it covers the states of Pará, Amapá, Roraima, Amazonas and Acre.
 Anglican Diocese of Brasilia
 Headed by Bishop Maurício José Araújo de Andrade (former Primate Bishop), it covers the Federal District, the states of Goiás, Tocantins and the west portion of Minas Gerais.
 Anglican Diocese of Curitiba
 Headed by Bishop Naudal Alves Gomes, it covers the state of Paraná.
 Anglican Diocese of Pelotas
 Headed by Bishop Renato Raatz, it covers the area of the town of Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul and the surrounding coastline. Previous bishops include Luis Prado.
Anglican Diocese of Recife
 Headed by Bishop João Cancio Peixoto, it covers the area of the Northeast Region of Brazil.
Anglican Diocese of Rio de Janeiro
 Headed by Bishop Eduardo Coelho Grillo, it covers the states of Rio de Janeiro, Espírito Santo, and most of Minas Gerais.
Anglican Diocese of São Paulo
 Headed by Bishop Flávio Augusto Borges Irala, it covers the state of São Paulo.
Southern Diocese
 Headed by Bishop Francisco de Assis da Silva (also Primate Bishop), it covers the coastal areas of the states of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, excluding the area in the Diocese of Pelotas.
South-West Diocese
 Headed by Bishop Humberto Maiztegui Gonçalves, it covers the inland areas of the states of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul.
Missionary District of the West
 Also headed by Bishop Francisco de Assis da Silva, it covers the states of Rondônia, Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul.

Social issues
Due to the predominance of the Liberal wing – which defends a social interpretation of the Gospels because of the oppression that a literal interpretation may cause – IEAB rejects fanaticism and preaches that the church should be an instrument of social change, seeking to engage congregations and communities in debates still considered taboo in Brazilian society, such as those involving land concentration, domestic violence, sexism, racism, homophobia and xenophobia. It describes itself as concerned about the social, political, moral and spiritual lives of its members. It is also considered an Inclusive Church for it accepts, as members, people from historically marginalized groups such as LGBT, women, indigenous and landless. According to the canons of IEAB, "as Christians, we bear the promise of the Holy Spirit, which leads us to the Word made flesh, who welcomes the oppressed, the neglected, the misunderstood and the marginalized".

IEAB argues that "everyone baptized, faithful and obedient to God, regardless of their sexual orientation, are full members of the Body of Christ, the Church". According to Cardoso, the Church has welcomed gay people as members since 1998. In 1997, the Bishops of IEAB signed a document saying that "sexuality is a gift from God, and sexual intercourse, when practiced in a context of love and mutual respect, should not only be accepted but also considered as one of the good things that God has created". In 2001, IEAB conducted the first national consultation on human sexuality, when its members decided to reject "the principle of exclusion implicit in the ethics of sin and uncleanness" and declare inclusiveness as an "essence of the ministry of Jesus". On 12 May 2011, IEAB released a statement declaring its support for the Supreme Federal Court decision to recognize same-sex unions in Brazil. More recently, the Presiding Bishop issued a letter in support of the Episcopal Church's decision to adopt a non-gender marriage stance and stating that he wanted his church to do the same soon. The Church has declared its support for the ordination of openly gay clergy and has offered a service of blessing for same-sex marriages. According to Santos, the political progressivism of IEAB's religious leaders is the reflex of their broad theological education.

In June 2016, the presiding bishop convened an Extraordinary Synod to discuss amending the marriage canon to include same-sex marriage, but a consensus was not reached; the issue will be considered in the General Synod in 2017. IEAB is among the Anglican churches that are open to blessing same-sex unions. "Anglican churches in Brazil, South Africa, New Zealand and Scotland have moved to recognize same-sex relationships."

Clergy were able to enter civil partnerships, and are now also able to enter into same-sex marriages. On 1 June 2018 the General Synod voted to change the marriage canon to allow same-sex couples to get married.