[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Islamist

luable testimony. The challenge - likely to be unmet by ideologues - is to reflect upon its totality, rather than appropriate it selectively for some narrow, predetermined cause.

Mixed
Brian Whitaker, who was Middle East editor of The Guardian for seven years, concludes his review by writing that, 

The tricky question is what, in the hothouse of youthful politics—whether at Oxford, in Liverpool or east London—leads some to violence while others, like Ed Husain, end up writing books about it. Ed doesn't seem to have an answer, and I doubt that anyone else really knows either.

Critical
In The Independent, Ziauddin Sardar, complains of what he sees as Husain's "reductive extremist" activity, first embracing "the extremist cleric Omar Bakri Muhammad, and ... the atrocious Hizb ut-Tahir", and then going in the opposite direction blaming multiculturalism "for the radicalisation of Muslim youth".   He goes on to dismiss Husain's book, saying "The Islamist seems to have been drafted by a Whitehall mandarin as a PR job for the Blair government."
Writing in The Guardian, Madeleine Bunting argues that

Husain's book will be used in many debates—the future of multiculturalism, whether infringements of civil liberties are necessary to combat terrorism, what parts of Islamist histories from Asia and the Middle East a British Muslim community needs to jettison. One suspects the naivety which took him into Hizb-ut Tahrir has blinded him as to how his story will be used to buttress positions hostile to many things he holds dear—his own faith and racial tolerance, for example. A glance at the blog response to a Husain piece in the Telegraph reveals how rightwing racism and anti-Islamic sentiment are feasting on his testimony.

A commentary page piece in  The Guardian by Riazat Butt accused Husain of having been a peripheral character whose association with Islamic groups in Britain occurred over a decade ago. 

He is happy to reinforce stereotypes and justifies this by saying he knows what inspires terrorists—the likely inference being that his book is an educational tool. But Husain was not a terrorist and his account is dated and misleading. The groups he mentions, and their modus operandi, are more fluid and sophisticated now. Husain provides no new answers and no fresh information. The activities of Hizb ut-Tahrir and their ilk have been well documented already. I have to ask why, when his experiences are firmly based in the 1990s, this book is being published now and is being greeted with an adulation that is both embarrassing and unwarranted.

See also
Ed Husain
 Maajid Nawaz
Islamism
 Radical: My Journey out of Islamist Extremism
Extremism
East London Mosque
Islamism in London
Undercover Mosque
Londonistan: How Britain is Creating a Terror State Within
 Muslim Brotherhood
 Islamic terrorism

References

External links
 The Islamist - Penguin Books 
 Review of the Islamist by The Guardian
 CNN Interview with Ed Husain (Video)
 CNN Interview Transcript
 "The 'Islamist' bogeyman" by Taji Mustafa, executive committee of Hizb ut-Tahrir in Britain
 Review of the Islamist by Ziauddin Sardar, The Independent
 Review of the Islamist by Inayat Bunglawala, The Muslim Council of Britain
 April 21, 2007 How a British jihadi saw the light

Islamic terrorism in the United Kingdom
Islamism in the United Kingdom
Books about Islamism