[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Moshe Sanbar

aspects of inter-national banking, despite the complexity of the specific circumstances causing the dissolution of the bank to be finalized only after more than three decades. A commission of inquiry chaired by Meir Shamgar completed its findings in 1975, finding Sanbar's acts to have been adequate.

Sanbar was outspoken on the need for separation between the role of the governor of the central bank and the role of economic advisor to the government. However, considering the role as it was, during his term the Bank of Israel's research department was central in preparation of policy papers and in establishing a professional database for monetary data to be used by all relevant government authorities, as well as preparation of econometric projections.

In early 1976 Sanbar announced he would not seek appointment for a second term in November. It was speculated he would be appointed as chairman of Hadera Paper company, but he ultimately declined the position.

Sanbar's signature is found on the Israeli Pound fourth series.

Sanbar Commission

Despite leaving the civil service, in the years 1977–1981 he accepted Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's request to chair a governmental commission on municipal affairs, on a volunteer basis. The commission was operated by five committees, two of which were headed by Sanbar himself: the subcommittee for funding of local authorities and the subcommittee for examining the relation between the central government and local authorities in matters of public services. The commission's five subcommittees operated about 120 teams.

The commission produced twenty interim reports and following its first report, legislative action was taken in 1978 to implement some of its initial recommendations. Its final report was presented to Prime Minister Menachem Begin in June 1981. Central recommendations in the commission's report called for: Increase in the independent income of local authorities, setting criteria for government support in the local government and the listing of standard services to be controlled by the local authorities and/or supported by the state budget. 

Despite support in the Knesset and by the Federation of Local Authorities in Israel, objections by Finance Minister Yoram Aridor brought forward only partial implementation. It was only after the formation of a new government in 1984 that the full report was adopted by the government.

Private sector
From 1977 onwards, Sanbar held various positions in the private sector, as chairman of industrial and financial institutions: Electrochemical Industries (1977–82), Atzmaut Bank for Mortgages and Development, Le Nacional Insurance (1985–91), Zelon Ltd. (1981–90), M.G. Rubber Industries (1984–88), Solel Boneh (1986) and others. In 1978, he was appointed as member of the executive of the Manufacturers Association of Israel and in 1981 as a member of its presidium.

Throughout the 1980s he was mentioned repeatedly as a possible candidate for minister of finance. He was also consulted often by Shimon Peres during his terms as prime minister and minister of finance and was instrumental in orchestrating the 1984 “package deal” In 1985, he advised on the Economic Stabilization Plan. In 1984–1985 he was a member of the public committee appointed by minister of finance Yitzhak Moda'i for determining prioritization in public expense and the state budget.

Chairman of Bank Leumi
From 1988 to 1995, Sanbar chaired Bank Leumi's board of directors and its subordinate banking firms. In the two years prior to his appointment, three chairmen resigned and the bank suffered from an ongoing labor dispute. Furthermore, the bank faced various financial crises such as debts of the Kibbutz Movement estimated at one billion US dollars and debts of Koor Industries estimated at 150 million US dollars.

Sanbar formed a new decision-making process in the bank, relying on professional subcommittees set by the board of directors. Additionally, he incorporated a new business approach, subjugating the bank's aid towards insolvency solely to corporations taking actual steps to better their own state of affairs. Up to Sanbar's end of term in 1995, the bank had a stable leadership and had seen renewed growth in its organizational structure and in its net profit. This was enhanced by Sanbar's approach in favor of the bank's involvement in venture capital in forming “Teuza” fund, as well as the Israel Growth Fund for investments.