[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hapoel Petah Tikva F.C.

season, the 2 clubs met for a critical match in which 2 goals scored by Hapoel were called void by Haim Livkovich, the referee. Later on, after the game was ended 0:0, the 2 goals were proven to be valid but unfortunately this was too late for Hapoel that missed the league championship as a result.

In the following year the team dropped to the fourth place, but finally won a major trophy again, after beating Maccabi Tel Aviv in the state cup final, 3:1. Following that Hapoel Petah Tikva became the first Israeli team to participate in UEFA Cup Winners’ Cup. It also became the first Israeli team to beat a major European club in any UEFA contest, with a 2:1 victory over Feyenoord (but knocked out due to a 0:1 loss in the away game).

In 1996 the club was purchased by the businessman Meir Shamir. In 1997 Hapoel Petah Tikva was ranked second in the league once again, and competed in UEFA Cup for the first time.
Another good season was in 2000, where the team competed for the championship, but ended up ranking third. 
Overall the club seemed to be in a strong position in that era, being ranked at the top half of the league in 14 out of 15 seasons, with a strong players base and good youth teams. However, that did not last much longer.

Bankruptcy and Relegations – 2003–2015
Starting at 2003 the team became gradually weaker. Homegrown players were being sold to other clubs, and every year a larger portion of the squad was being replaced. In 2007 Hapoel Petach Tikva was relegated to the second league after 23 consecutive years in the first league. The club managed to get promoted the following year, but was extremely poorly managed at this point.

In the summer of 2011 the poor management proved to be even worse than expected, when large debts were discovered and the club filed for bankruptcy. The team started the season with a 9 points deduction, which led to another relegation. In 2014 the team was promoted back, but faced relegation once again in the following season.

Second League and Fans Ownership – 2016–Present Day
The following years were even worse, with the team struggling in the second league. In the summer of 2018, seven years after the first time, the club declared bankruptcy once again. Therefore, the team started the 2019 season with a point deduction of 11 points, but still managed to avoid relegation.

In March 2019 Hapoel Petah Tikva became a fans-owned team, after the supporters' trust named The Blue bought the club. This did not prevent an awful season in 2021 which ended with a relegation to the third league for the first time in history. However, the team ended up staying in the second league due to financial trouble in Hapoel Iksal.

In 2022, Israeli businessman Adam Neumann became a sponsor for the team. 

At the end of 2022–23 Liga Leumit the team was ranked in the second place and was promoted to the Israeli Premier League after 8 years in the Liga Leumit.

Stadium
The home ground of Hapoel Petah Tikva is HaMoshava Stadium which opened at the end of 2011, and replaced Petah Tikva Municipal Stadium as the home ground of the team.

Current squad

Honours

League

Cup competitions

Managers