[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Exterminator 2

.
 Longer version of the scene where X and his gang members attack Caroline in the park.
 Some lobby cards show pictures from the original ending with John and X fighting with each other next to the garbage truck and the wounded X kneeling on the ground while some cop is pointing his shotgun at him.

Alternative/original ending
 
The original ending in the rough cut of the movie was different, Instead of the chase scene between John and X in the factory, both of them confront each other after John kills all of X's gang members and get into a fight. X almost kills John, but Caroline shows up in her wheelchair (she did not die in the original cut, the scenes where John finds her dead body were also filmed during reshoots with Geffner's and Ginty's stand-ins) and shoots X, wounding him. When the police shows up, John puts X into the garbage truck and the chase starts between him in his truck and the police cars. The chase ends with John crashing the garbage truck into the river and X's dead body floating out of it. Some behind the scenes footage included in an old making-of documentary shows the filming of the fight scene between John and X in the original ending, sadly the garbage truck driving off a bridge into a river was never filmed because of the expense.
 
A shot of John taking his mask off in the ending after X dies is actually an outtake edited from the original scene the exterminator flames gang members at the end of the movie, which is why the scene cuts abruptly when he starts taking the mask off, this scene can actually be seen in the "making of" TV special for "Exterminator 2". According to some interview from the time when the movie was released, Ginty hated the way the movie was cut down and re-edited by the studio.

Workprints

The 2 workprints of Exterminator 2 are extreme rough cuts and are of poor quality as they came from VHS tapes.

The first earlier workprint is after production of the movie was shut down, the original story is complete with the nightclub explosion, Caroline survives and is in a wheel chair for the 3rd act but also suffers from a lack of footage filmed as it has title cards explaining missing scenes and also no ending, this cut is only 58 minutes long.

The second workprint is a later cut while the reshoots were still taking place, this cut seems to be trying to complete the story from the original script while adding more action using the stunt double for the flame thrower scenes and the new ending that was still not yet complete as the explosion scene with the bag isn't included, instead X simply falls to his death with some very blurry footage and in this version a stunt double is standing over X with his welding mask down as Robert Ginty was not available for filming. In this version Caroline dies same as the theatrical cut.
Even with the new content this cut is only 67 minutes long.

The theatrical cut follows a different story while trying to use the same footage.

Release

In various countries more scenes were cut just to meet the R rating (or 18 rating), earlier VHS and DVDs were heavily edited, especially in the UK releases.

In the early 90s a VCD release of Exterminator 2 includes various scenes not in any other cut.

In September 2016, 101 Film released "THE UNCUT" Version of Exterminator 2 on Blu-ray - this version includes all of the previously removed edits for violence and 1 scene removed for their violent content for the UK release but does not change the story.

Shout! Factory released Exterminator 2 as part of a four-film "Action-Packed Movie Marathon" DVD set on March 19, 2013.

Reception
Exterminator 2 received negative critical reviews. The film holds a 0% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 5 reviews.

References

External links
 
 

1984 action thriller films
1984 films
1980s superhero films
American action thriller films
American sequel films
American superhero films
Golan-Globus films
American vigilante films
1980s vigilante films
1984 directorial debut films
1980s English-language films
1980s American films