[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zanzhi

nd printing errors, "some of which were quite significant" (Pina 2018, 38). Thomas Henshaw's 1655 English translation of Semedo capitalizes the second syllables as Kia Quen and Tean Zu (Semedo 1655, 143). The 1667 French translation by Louis Coulon hyphenates Kia-quen and Tean-zu (Semedo 1667, 209).

Álvaro Semedo's widely-translated book does not identify what romanization system is used for Chinese words, specifically his tean zu ghost word for zanzhi (拶指) or zanzi (拶子) and kia quen for jiagun (夾棍). When Semedo reached China in 1610, the Jesuit missionaries Michele Ruggieri (1543–1607) and Matteo Ricci (1552-1610) had developed the first Chinese romanization systems for transcribing Chinese words in the Latin alphabet. During 1583-88, Ruggieri and Ricci co-edited a Portuguese-Chinese dictionary, the Dizionario Portoghese-Cinese (葡漢辭典), which was the first bilingual European language dictionary of Chinese. In these two phonological systems, Pinyin zanzhi (拶指) is romanized as  (Ruggieri) and chánçu  (Ricci) and Pinyin zanzi (拶子) as zantsɪ (Ruggieri) and chánçù (Ricci) (Witek 2001, pp. 19, 1, and 21). In 1626 the Jesuit missionary Nicolas Trigault devised another Chinese romanization system, based mostly on Ricci's, in his Xiru Ermu Zi (西儒耳目資, literally "Aid to the Eyes and Ears of Western Literati").

Chinese linguists and sinologists have developed many transcription systems for Standard Mandarin. The tean zu spelling is not a recognizable Chinese word, but both tean and zu are used in modern Chinese transcription systems. In the Gwoyeu Romatzyh system, which alphabetically indicates the four tones of Mandarin by varying the spelling of syllables ("tonal spelling"), tean represents the third tone tiǎn, IPA /tʰiɛn/. The international standard Pinyin system uses zu for IPA /tsu/. Although there are several Chinese words pronounced tianzu, such as tiānzú (天足, "natural [unbound] feet", as opposed to footbinding), none of them refer to torture. While the precise origins of tean zu remain unknown, one possibility is that tean was a misprint of tsan. The Ruggieri system gives tsaŋ or ciam for zhuàng (狀, "form, shape") and tſaŋ or zam for zhuàng (撞, "collide, run into") (Witek 2001, 21). Compare the 19th century Wade-Giles tsan-tzŭ romanization for Pinyin zanzi (拶子).

The "tean zu" ghost word continues in the present day. A Google search finds over 38,000 results.

Early accounts of Chinese torture
The Spanish Augustinian Catholic bishop and author Juan González de Mendoza (1545-1618) published one of the earliest Western histories of China: the 1585 Spanish-language Historia de las cosas más notables, ritos y costumbres del gran reyno de la China (The History of the Great and Mighty Kingdom of China and the Situation Thereof), which describes the zanzhi and jiagun without noting their Chinese names. In the 1588 English translation,
Cruel torments. These judges do use two manner of torments to make them to confess the truth, when by fair means they can not, or by policy, the which first is procured with great care and diligence: the one is on their feet, and the other on their hands, and is so terrible that it cannot be suffered, but of force they do confess that which the judge doth pretend to know; yet do they execute none of them except first they have good information, or at the least, semiplena, or else so many inductions that it is a sufficient information for the same. The torments on the hands is given with two sticks as big as two fingers, and a span long, turned round and full of holes in all places, wherein are put cords to pull in and out their fingers of both their hands are put into the cords, and little and little they do pinch them, till in the end they do break them at the joints, with an incredible pain unto them that do suffer it, and it causes them to give great shrieks and groans that will move any man to compassion. And if it so come to passe that by this cruel torment they will not confess, and that the judge do understand by witness and by indiction that he is faulty and culpable, then doth he command to give him the torment of the feet, which is a great deal more cruel than that of the hands, and is in this sort: they take two pieces of wood, four square of four spans long and one span broad, and are joined together with a gume, and holes bored thorough, and put thorough them cords, and in the midst of these bords they do put the whole foot, and strain the cords, and with a mallet they do strike upon the cords, wherewith they do break all the bones, and cause them to suffer more pain and grief than with the torment of the hands. At the executing of these torments the supreme judges are always present, the which seldom times doth happen: for that such as be culpable will sooner confess than suffer those torments, desiring rather to die some other death that is not so cruel, than to suffer the pains of this torment. (de Mendoza 1585, tr. Parke 1588, 143; adapted to modern typography)