[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Act (Brazil)

Agir ([a.ʒˈiɾ], lit. 'Act') is a political party in Brazil, established in 1985. It was founded as the Youth Party (; PJ), and was renamed the National Reconstruction Party (, PRN) in 1989, and the Christian Labor Party (, PTC) in 2000. The party was renamed Agir in 2021, a change ratified by the Superior Electoral Court the following year.

As the PRN, it had the first president chosen through direct elections after the end of Brazil's military dictatorship, Fernando Collor de Mello, who suffered an impeachment process in 1992.

History

The party was founded in 1985 as the Youth Party by lawyer Daniel Sampaio Tourinho, a former member of the Democratic Labor Party. In 1989, it was renamed the National Reconstruction Party. In the same year, it succeeded in having its candidate, Fernando Collor de Mello, elected to the presidency of Brazil with 53.03% of the total votes.

The party carried out a platform of encouraging free trade, opening Brazil's market to imports, privatizing state-run companies, and attempting to reduce the country's rampant hyperinflation by way of the Plano Collor, which significantly reduced inflation rates in 1991, but was followed by a renewed and persistent, though smaller uptick in 1992. Following the impeachment of Fernando Collor for corruption and influence peddling charges in 1992, the party suffered a deep confidence crisis, losing most of its parliamentary representation.

In the 1994 presidential election, the party launched the candidacy of Carlos Antônio Gomes, who came second to last with 0.61% of the total votes. In 1998, while still affiliated with the party, Collor tried to run in that year's presidential election. The Superior Electoral Court prevented him from doing so, as he had been ineligible for eight years since his impeachment in 1992. In 2000, the party was renamed the Christian Labor Party.

In 2016, the party won the affiliation of senator of Alagoas and former president Fernando Collor, who stayed until 2019, when he entered the Republican Party of the Social Order. 

On 5 October 2021, during an event in Brasilia, it was announced that the party would be renamed Agir. The Superior Electoral Court ratified this decision the next year. 

In 2023, the party underwent a total reform, starting to promote the rights and well-being of the autistic people.

Electoral history

Legislative elections

Presidential elections

Notes

References

External links
 (in Portuguese)

Conservative parties in Brazil
Political parties established in 1985
Liberal parties in Brazil
Social conservative parties
1985 establishments in Brazil
Labour parties