[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# First Battle of Charleston Harbor

killed in a later attack on Charleston.

The monitors and New Ironsides continued to take part in the blockade of Charleston that remained in force, but the former never again inspired such awe among the Rebels as they had before the attack. All were used in the continuing campaign against the city.

Even the sunken Keokuk continued to figure in the war. She had sunk in shallow water that left her smokestack above the surface, so her position was known. Adolphus W. LaCoste, a Charleston civilian hired by the Confederate government, was able to salvage the two  guns from the wreck. He and his crew worked by night and were able to escape notice of the blockaders; Du Pont did not suspect their activity until it was announced in the Charleston Mercury.

See also
Second Battle of Charleston Harbor
Battle of Fort Pulaski
Blockade runners of the American Civil War
List of monitors of the United States Navy
Ironclads: American Civil War

References

Bibliography

 Ammen, Daniel, The Atlantic Coast.New York: C. Scribner's sons, 1885; reprint: Blue and Grey Press, n.d.
 Browning, Robert M. Jr., Success is all that was expected: the South Atlantic blockading squadronduring the Civil War. Washington, D.C. : Brassey's, 2002. 
 Coker, PC, "Charleston's Maritime Heritage 1670–1865", Charleston, CokerCraft Press, 1987 
 Gibbons, Tony, Warships and naval battles of the Civil War. Gallery Books, 1989. 
 Musicant, Ivan, Divided waters: the naval history of the Civil War. New York: HarperCollins, 1995. 
 Reed, Rowena, Combined operations in the Civil War. Annapolis: Naval Institute Press, 1978. 
 Rodgers, C. R. P., "Du Pont's attack at Charleston." Battles and leaders of the Civil War,eds. Johnson, Robert Underwood, and Clarence Clough Buel. Vol. 4, pp. 32–47Century, 1894; reprint: Castle, 1956.
 Scharf, J. Thomas (John Thomas), History of the Confederate States Navy from its organization to the surrender of its last vessel; its stupendous struggle with the great Navy of the United States, the engagements fought in the rivers and harbors of the South and upon the high seas, blockade-running, first use of iron-clads and torpedoes, and privateer history. New York: Rogers & Sherwood, 1887; reprint: Gramercy, 1996.
 Tucker, Spencer, Blue & gray navies: the Civil War afloat. Annapolis, Md.: Naval Institute Press, 2006. 
 Wise, Stephen R., Lifeline of the Confederacy: blockade running during the Civil War. Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1988. 
 National Park Service battle summary
 CWSAC Report Update

Further reading

 Url
 Brennan, Patrick (1996) Secessionville: Assault on CharlestonSavas Publishing Company, Campbell, California,  pp. 394, , Url

Charleston Harbor I
Charleston Harbor I
Charleston Harbor I
Charleston Harbor I
Charleston Harbor I
Charleston County, South Carolina
Charleston Harbor
1863 in South Carolina
April 1863 events