[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chinese people in India

an affection for him that he trusted him with everything. He was the greatest exponent of the Moorish superstition and enemy of the Christians in all Malabar and for those taken captive at sea and brought thither he invented the most exquisite kinds of torture when he martyred them."

British India

Kolkata, then known as Calcutta, was the capital of British India from 1772 to 1911. Although it was also geographically the easiest accessible metropolitan area from China by land, there were few Chinese people in Calcutta until the late British Raj era; Chinese immigrants choose to go to Burma instead. One of the first persons of Chinese origin to arrive in Calcutta was Yang Tai Chow (a.k.a. Tong Achew and Yang Da Zhao) who arrived in 1778. He was an either northern Chinese or a Hakka from Guangdong or Fujian province of China judging by the pronunciation of his surname. Governor-General of India Warren Hastings granted land to Achew to set up a sugar cane plantation and sugar factory in a place, currently called Achipur, located near the town of Budge-Budge on the banks of the River Hoogly. According to records of the East India Company from the year 1778, "Achew was granted 650 bighas of land about 6 miles south of Budge – Budge for an annual rent of Rs 45". Many of the earliest Chinese immigrants worked on the Khidderpore docks. A police report in 1788 mentions a sizable Chinese population settled in the vicinity of Bow Bazaar Street. The sugar mill that Atchew had set up in the patch of land near the town of Budge Budge drew other Chinese migrants and soon a small community had formed around it. By 1783, we know Atchew was dead – a letter shows an East India Company attorney trying to extract money from the executor of his estate. An advertisement in the Calcutta Gazette in 1804 announces that the sugar mill was up for sale. A temple and the grave of Tong Achi still remain and are visited by many Chinese who come from the city during the Chinese New Year.

A later British census found that there were only 362 Chinese people in Calcutta in 1837.  A common meeting place was the Temple of Guan Yu, the god of war, located in the Chinese quarter near Dharmatolla. They are all men and came to help assist the British carpentry business after the destruction from British colonial famines in India.

In Assam, after the establishment of tea gardens in Assam, the British authorities encouraged the migration of Chinese labourers, artisans, tea growers and tea makers, who were then employed in the burgeoning British owned tea gardens. The migration started in 1838. They soon surmounted the language barrier and started intermingling, many of the Chinese married local women and established a new society in Assam. Instances of intermarriage grew to the point where it became hard to physically differentiate Chinese immigrants in Assam from the locals during the period of their internment during the 1962 Sino-Indian War. A series of voluntary migrations of Chinese from China followed. This broadened the space of the newly established society and made it more multi-cultural and multi-ethnic as the migrants married local girls and settled down. Their physical features changed; the descendants forgot the Chinese language. Through sheer hard work and perseverance, the dislocated Chinese made a new life for themselves and prospered. Many 'China Patty,’ or small China towns, sprang up in different parts of Assam – of which the China Patty of Makum was the biggest.

According to Alabaster, there were lard manufacturers and shoemakers in addition to carpenters.  Running tanneries and working with leather was traditionally not considered a respectable profession among upper-caste Hindus, and work was relegated to lower caste muchis and chamars.  There was a high demand, however, for high quality leather goods in colonial India, one that the Chinese were able to fulfill.  Alabaster also mentions licensed opium dens run by native Chinese and a Cheena Bazaar where contraband was readily available. Opium, however, was not illegal until after Indian independence in 1947. Immigration continued unabated through the turn of the century and during World War I partly due to political upheavals and poverty.  Around the time of the First World War, the first Chinese-owned tanneries sprang up.

Sino-Indian War