[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Estonian anti-German resistance movement 1941–1944

ed. On January 6, 1943, a meeting was held at the Estonian foreign delegation in Stockholm. It was decided that, in order to preserve the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia, the last constitutional prime minister, Jüri Uluots, must continue to fulfill his responsibilities as prime minister.

The movement subsequently formed the National Committee of the Republic of Estonia () in March 1944. The original initiative to form the committee came from the Estonian pre-war opposition parties but it was quickly joined by  Jüri Uluots, the last constitutional pre-war Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia and his supporters. The Committee aimed to establish a provisional government during expected German withdrawal as the Red Army had reached the border of Estonia on 2 February 1944. By April 1944 a large number of the committee members were arrested by the German security agencies. While some 200 people were arrested, the leaders of the resistance movement escaped arrest however their activities were severely curtailed until mid June. In June 1944 the elector's assembly of the Republic of Estonia gathered in secrecy from the occupying powers in Tallinn and appointed Jüri Uluots as the prime minister with the responsibilities of the President. On 21 June 1944 Jüri Uluots appointed Otto Tief as deputy prime minister. On 18 September 1944 Uluots, suffering from cancer, named Otto Tief the Acting Prime Minister and appointed a Government which consisted of 11 members. Tief assumed office in accordance with the constitution and took the opportunity with the departure of the Germans to declare the legitimate Estonian government restored. The Estonian national government was proclaimed in Estonia, the Estonian military units seized the government buildings in Toompea and ordered the German forces to leave. The flag of Germany was replaced with the Estonian tricolour in the Pikk Hermann, the flag tower of the seat of the Government. Tief's government failed to keep control, attempting to organise the defence of the capital city against the advancing Red Army making use of the men who had fought in the Finnish Infantry Regiment 200 and a military unit organised by Johan Pitka, the Germans overran the headquarters of Admiral Pitka in Tallinn and it is presumed he was subsequently killed in the ensuing battle.  Most of the members and officials were caught, jailed, deported, or executed by the advancing Soviets.

Pro-Soviet resistance
A small number of Estonians were involved in underground resistance during World War II ranging from producing illegal publications, to espionage, to violent sabotage. They included Rein Alasoo, Evald Laasi, Georgi Loik, Aleksander Looring, as well as others.

See also 
Soviet partisans in Estonia
Anti-fascism
:Category:Military history of Estonia during World War II
Occupation of Estonia by Nazi Germany
Resistance during World War II

References

Military history of Estonia during World War II
World War II resistance movements
Eastern European World War II resistance movements
Generalbezirk Estland
Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic