[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Aramaic

t Aramaic may have had six):
 ס, שׂ  (as in English "sea"),
 ז  (as in English "zero"),
 שׁ  (as in English "ship"),
 צ  (the emphatic Ṣāḏê listed above).

In addition to these sets, Aramaic has the nasal consonants מ m and נ n, and the approximants ר r (usually an alveolar trill), ל l, י y and ו w.

Historical sound changes
Six broad features of sound change can be seen as dialect differentials:
 Vowel change occurs almost too frequently to document fully, but is a major distinctive feature of different dialects.
 Plosive/fricative pair reduction.  Originally, Aramaic, like Tiberian Hebrew, had fricatives as conditioned allophones for each plosive. In the wake of vowel changes, the distinction eventually became phonemic; still later, it was often lost in certain dialects. For example, Turoyo has mostly lost , using  instead, like Arabic; other dialects (for instance, standard Assyrian Neo-Aramaic) have lost  and  and replaced them with  and , as with Modern Hebrew. In most dialects of Modern Syriac,  and  are realized as  after a vowel.
 Loss of emphatics. Some dialects have replaced emphatic consonants with non-emphatic counterparts, while those spoken in the Caucasus often have glottalized rather than pharyngealized emphatics.
 Guttural assimilation is the main distinctive feature of Samaritan pronunciation, also found in Samaritan Hebrew: all the gutturals are reduced to a simple glottal stop. Some Modern Aramaic dialects do not pronounce h in all words (the third person masculine pronoun hu becomes ow).
 Proto-Semitic */θ/ */ð/ are reflected in Aramaic as */t/, */d/, whereas they became sibilants in Hebrew (the number three is שלוש šālôš in Hebrew but תלת tlāṯ in Aramaic, the word gold is זהב zahav in Hebrew but דהב dehav in Aramaic). Dental/sibilant shifts are still happening in the modern dialects.
 New phonetic inventory. Modern dialects have borrowed sounds from the dominant surrounding languages. The most frequent borrowings are  (as the first consonant in "azure"),  (as in "jam") and  (as in "church"). The Syriac alphabet has been adapted for writing these new sounds.

Grammar
As in other Semitic languages, Aramaic morphology (the way words are formed) is based on the consonantal root. The root generally consists of two or three consonants and has a basic meaning, for example, כת״ב k-t-b has the meaning of 'writing'. This is then modified by the addition of vowels and other consonants to create different nuances of the basic meaning:
 כתבה kṯāḇâ, handwriting, inscription, script, book.
 כתבי kṯāḇê, books, the Scriptures.
 כתובה kāṯûḇâ, secretary, scribe.
 כתבת kiṯḇeṯ, I wrote.
 אכתב eḵtûḇ, I shall write.

Nouns and adjectives
Aramaic nouns and adjectives are inflected to show gender, number and state.

Aramaic has two grammatical genders: masculine and feminine. The feminine absolute singular is often marked by the ending ה- -â.

Nouns can be either singular or plural, but an additional "dual" number exists for nouns that usually come in pairs. The dual number gradually disappeared from Aramaic over time and has little influence in Middle and Modern Aramaic.