[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

mberlain's Creek. During this time, infantry under the command of Union General Gouverneur Kemble Warren, located east of Sheridan's army, was driven back. The attacking Confederate force then turned its attention to Sheridan—Sheridan's cavalry had to face two enemy infantry divisions and a cavalry.

As the Union cavalry was driven back toward Dinwiddie Court House, Capehart's 3rd Brigade was recalled from duty guarding the wagon train. They moved near what would soon become the front, an open area in front of Dinwiddie. Capehart's brigade, sometimes called the "Virginia Brigade", used rails from a fence to quickly build a protective area for fighting while dismounted. The men in the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry, along with the rest of the 3rd Brigade, were able to halt the Confederate attack in fighting that continued until after dark.

Battle of Five Forks

The Battle of Five Forks occurred on April 1, 1865. Five Forks is a small community in Dinwiddie County, located between Dinwiddie Court House and Petersburg. For this Union victory, Sheridan received reinforcements from the Fifth Corps and a division of cavalry from the Army of the James. Sheridan's plan was to capture the Confederate infantry that had isolated itself beyond the Confederate line of defense after pursuing Sheridan at Dinwiddie.

Union infantry attacked from the east side of the battlefield, while most of the cavalry attacked from the south and west. Capehart's brigade attacked from the southwest, and eventually was on the extreme western side of the battlefield. At times, the cavalry fought dismounted, with their horses led at a safe distance behind. The opposing forces were always within range of the Union cavalry carbines, keeping the weapon's seven-shot advantage—and not enabling the Confederate infantry to utilize the advantage of their longer range weapons.

After 5:00 pm, Custer's division (including Capehart's brigade) remounted, and attacked a Confederate battery. The battery was unable to shoot low enough to hit the charging cavalry, and was soon captured. The rebels responded with a Rebel yell, and soon the opposing forces were fighting in close combat using sabers. Because of their position on the field, most of the Union casualties in this encounter belonged to the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry—but a large portion of the loss was from wounds that were not lethal.

Since the fighting was very close, many of the Confederates were killed before they had a chance to retreat. The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry drove the rebels to the end of the field, only to be partially driven back by a second group of Confederate cavalrymen. After the regiment was reinforced by the rest of Capehart's brigade, the Confederates were driven from the area, and numerous battle flags were captured.

Battle of Sailor's Creek

On April 1, General Lee, realizing the threat to his army and the Confederate government in Richmond, recommended abandoning the city. The battles as Dinwiddie Court House and Five Forks played important roles in this decision. Confederate president Jefferson Davis left the city on April 2.  Lee's army began moving west a few days later.

On April 6, Union troops chased Lee's Army to an area south of the Appomattox River near Saylor's Creek. The area was about halfway between Richmond and Lynchburg.  Some historians say the Battle of Sailor's Creek was actually three battles that were fought simultaneously at Lockett Farm, Hillsman Farm, and Marshall's Crossroads.  Sheridan's cavalry fought in the Marshall's Crossroads area.  Confederate General Richard Ewell's two divisions were between Little Sailor's (also spelled Saylor's and Sayler's) Creek and Marshall's Crossroads. Confederate General Richard H. Anderson commanded additional divisions mostly west of Marshall's Crossroads.      Sheridan's cavalry, commanded by General Merritt, was on the southeast side, with the three divisions commanded by Devin, Crook, and Custer.  The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry, as part of Capehart's Brigade and Custer's 3rd Division, began their fight south of Marshall's Crossroads. Once again, Union infantry attacked from the east, while Sheridan's cavalry attacked mostly from the south and west.