[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Derick Brassard

n his usual third line position, centreing Aleksander Barkov and Vincent Trocheck, before receiving a promotion to the second line wing with Trocheck and Mike Hoffman. Brassard dressed with the Panthers for only 10 games before being traded again, during which time he had one goal and three assists.

As part of a larger slew of trading deadline moves, on February 25, 2019, the Panthers traded Brassard to the Colorado Avalanche for a third-round pick in the 2020 NHL Entry Draft. Had Brassard re-signed with the Avalanche the following season, the Panthers would have also received a sixth-round pick in the 2020 draft. The day of the trade, the Panthers were already in Colorado to play the Avalanche at the Pepsi Center, and Brassard was pulled away during Florida's morning skate session to begin dressing for the other team. Although Brassard scored a goal against his former team that night, Colorado ultimately fell to Florida 4–3 in overtime. Brassard scored four goals in 20 games with Colorado, finishing the season with 14 goals and 23 points across the three teams for which he played. The Avalanche fell to the San Jose Sharks in the second round of the 2019 Stanley Cup playoffs, and Brassard, who missed three games of the first-round series against the Calgary Flames with an illness, was one of many depth forwards who did not score a goal during the Sharks–Avalanche series. Brassard became a free agent at the end of the season, which marked a change in his career trajectory. Whereas he had previously been a "big-money, coveted-by-the-market" player, he soon began signing shorter contracts later in the free agency period.

New York Islanders (2019–2020) 
Brassard signed a one-year, $1.2 million deal with the New York Islanders on August 21, 2019. Wanting to avoid a repeat of the previous season, in which he had been traded twice and played for three separate teams, his contract included a no movement clause, which prevented New York from trading Brassard, placing him on waivers, or sending him to the AHL without his prior agreement. Islanders coach Barry Trotz shifted Brassard from his usual center position to the wing, with Brock Nelson centering the line and Anthony Beauvillier on the opposite wing. Under this new arrangement, Brassard setled into a scoring rhythm, and went on a five-game point streak in late October. He also served as a mentor to Beauvillier, a rookie and fellow Francophone. Trotz altered the lines as the season progressed, with Brassard and Josh Bailey each taking turns at center until the trading deadline, at which point the Islanders acquired Brassard's former Ottawa teammate Jean-Gabriel Pageau. Pageau and Brassard played only seven games together and had not found a permanent third linemate when the NHL announced the indefinite suspension of the  season due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Brassard finished the curtailed regular season with 10 goals and 22 assists in 66 games. When the NHL returned to play for the 2020 Stanley Cup playoffs that August, Brassard joined the Islanders in Toronto, playing on a line with Pageau and Tom Kuhnhackl. Although the Islanders were eliminated from the postseason by the Tampa Bay Lightning in the Eastern Conference Final, Brassard recorded two goals and six assists in 18 playoff games.

Arizona Coyotes (2020–2021) 
As the pandemic-delayed  NHL season approached, Brassard signed a one-year contract with the Arizona Coyotes on December 30, 2020. He had taken an interest in Arizona while watching the team during the 2020 playoffs, while Coyotes general manager Bill Armstrong was looking for a veteran center to help a younger-skewing line-up. COVID-19 quarantine protocols caused Brassard to miss most of Arizona's training camp, but he was able to join the team for a scrimmage shortly before the start of the season. Head coach Rick Tocchet appointed Brassard as a temporary alternate captain at the start of the season, with the intention of re-evaluating his position after the first five games. Brassard ultimately carried the title through the 2020–21 season while filling a number of roles on the ice: he played both left wing and center and made appearances on every line besides the top. On March 20, Brassard helped snap a five-game Coyotes losing streak with a hat-trick in a 5–1 defeat of the Anaheim Ducks. It was his first regular-season hat-trick in 883 NHL games. Among active players at the time, only Valtteri Filppula, who had played in 1,038 games without a hat-trick, had a longer drought. The Coyotes failed to qualify for the 2021 Stanley Cup playoffs, having been mathematically eliminated from postseason contention at the start of May, but Brassard finished the season with eight goals and 20 points in 53 games.