[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Soulton Hall

The National Youth Theatre (NYT) gave their first live in person performance since the restrictions following the lockdown that was brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. The play was a new, specially devised work called The Last Harvest In 2021, the NYT returned with a performance of Animal Farm.

In October 2021 Soulton Hall hosted an immersive performance of the Old English epic poem Beowulf, together with a selection of shorter pieces of Old English and Old Welsh poetry, by early medieval living history/reconstructive archaeology group Thegns of Mercia, titled Beowulf at the Barrow. The performance took place around the site, with the historic Moot Hall representing the great hall Heorot, and the Soulton Long Barrow representing the dragon's lair and Beowulf's own burial mound, serving as venue for the final sections of the poem.

Public affairs 
Michela Gove visited as Secretary of State for DEFRA in 2017.

In 2021, during the North Shropshire by-election, the various candidates and media were headquartered at the manor.

Dance 
An eighteenth century dance, the Soulton Jigg, is linked to the manor and published in John Walsh's 1740 "The Second Book of the Compleat Country Dancing-Master".

Material from the Soulton collection concerning its dancing pavement was loaned to the inaugural John Weaver Festival of Dance, (marking the 350th anniversary of the birth of the Shropshire-born "Father of English ballet").

Literaturary and other publishing 
The manor is referenced in the following books:

 Regenesis: Feeding the World Without Devouring the Planet by George Monbiot
 Wilderland and Hill and Dale, both by Andrew Fusek Peters
 Riding Out by Simon Parker
 How to Love Animals by Henry Mance
 Stones of the Magi by James D. Wenn (forthcoming)
 First Christmas by Katherine E. Smith

Poetry

Merlin Fuhcher is the poet in residence.

Archaeology 
The manor includes various protected archaeology.

An official excavation with DigVentures took place in June 2019. The excavation of a mound (a scheduled ancient monument) revealed the existence of a structure which might be a castle from the 13th to 15th centuries, according to an archaeologist. As the dig continued, medieval artifacts were also unearthed, including an ampulla, a necklace, cups, bowls, and jug handles. These have been dated to circa 1250.

Heritage status 
Soulton Hall is a listed building, along with its walled gardens, pillared forecourt and carved stone work. Soulton Bridge, crossing Soulton Brook is a Grade I listed structure, built in 1801 by Thomas Telford.

An ongoing project to improve the presentation of the hall and its history was begun in 2022 by the Ashton family with advice and guidance from architectural history consultant James Wenn of Byrga Geniht, involving re-furnishing rooms to a state more representative and sensitive to their Tudor heritage. 

As part of this inscriptions have been added to the entry-way which encourage visitors toward consideration of the building's themes.

A plaque at the entrance to the hall reads:Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile,Hath not old custom made this life more sweetThan that of painted pomp? Are not these woodsMore free from peril than the envious court?'Here feel we not the penalty of Adam...And this our life, exempt from public haunt,Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,Sermons in stones, and good in everything.

- William Shakespeare, 'As You Like It', Act II, Scene 1. The Forest of Arden

It is believed that affairs of state that took place at Soulton in the time of Sir Rowland Hill, in the sixteenth century, inspired Shakespeare to write this play and shaped several others.

Gold lettering above the door reads:
UT ROSA FLOS FLORUM, SIC EST ISTA DOMUS DOMORUM

[As the rose if the flower of flowers, so this is the house of houses]Similar inscriptions can be found in the Chapter House of York Minster. and Westminster Abbey.
The connections of the building to the Classical philosophy and geometry of Ancient Greece are represented with an insctription from Isocrates echoing a 1600s carving on what is now Shrewsbury Library.
ἐὰν ᾖς φιλομαθής, ἔσει πολυμαθής,[If you loving learning you will become wise]

There is a banner for St Erkenwald in the studiolo.

Contemporary monuments

Long Barrow 
A modern long barrow, Soulton Long Barrow, has been constructed on farmland north of Soulton Hall. Begun in 2017, the site became operational in 2019. The new monument was covered on an episode of BBC Countryfile, being visited by Matt Baker and Ellie Harrison in April 2019.

Standing stones