[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C.

io Sefer
  Imran Oulad Omar
  Hélder Lopes
  Kristoffer Peterson
  André Biyogo Poko

Professional staff

 Last updated:30 August 2023

Coaches

Youth department
Hapoel "Hashlosha" Be'er Sheva, which represents the country's main southern football, and one of the largest youth departments in Israel.

During most of the club's years, the club enjoys a strong youth department. Until 1969 Hapoel Be'er Sheva had one youth team, and it even won the first Israeli Youth Championship this year. At the end of the championship season, another group, Hapoel "Hashlosha", was established in Be'er Sheva after three employees of the "Makhteshim" factory who died in a work accident. The "Hashlosha" coach was Chaim Sne and within a short time the "Hashlosha" became the senior youth group in the city. "Hashlosha" won the first Israeli youth championship in 1973–74. Until the end of the 1980s Hapoel "HaShlosha" Be'er Sheva was regularly ranked in the top ranks of the Youth Super League and even won four State Youth Championships. From the mid-1960s, Hapoel Be'er Sheva youth teams relied on the talents discovered in the municipal youth leagues, founded by Aharon Ben Yaakov, who in their heyday numbered thousands of boys who played in hundreds of teams. As the group moved into private hands in the 1990s, the investment in the youth department declined and the youth group dropped to the re-election after a few years. Since 2007, when Alona Barkat has purchased the club, many funds have been invested to bring the youth departments back to the forefront, and in recent years the youth group has gradually returned to the top of the youth league.

Youth department groups
Professional director of the Youth Department: Shmulik Hanin

Honours
 Youth Israeli champions:
 Winners (4): 1969–70, 1973–74, 1975–76, 1984–85
 Youth Super Cup:
 Winners (1):  1984–85

In popular culture
The title character of the Israeli sitcom Shemesh, is a devoted supporter of the club, and the club appears in the show's main setting and is mentioned several times throughout the show.

The love for Hapoel Be'er Sheva is at the center of Asher Halperin book, "I was crazy about it: a story about love and football."

References

External links

Hapoel Be'er Sheva – Israel Football Association (archived 19 July 2016)

 
1949 establishments in Israel
Association football clubs established in 1949
Be'er Sheva
Be'er Sheva
Sport in Beersheba