[Source: PubMed]

73. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 5;9(3):e90718. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090718.
eCollection  2014.

Is violent radicalisation associated with poverty, migration, poor self-reported 
health and common mental disorders?

Bhui K(1), Warfa N(1), Jones E(2).

Author information:
(1)Wolfson Institute of Preventive Medicine, Queen Mary University of London, 
London, United Kingdom.
(2)King's Centre for Military Health Research, King's College London, London, 
United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Doctors, lawyers and criminal justice agencies need methods to 
assess vulnerability to violent radicalization. In synergy, public health 
interventions aim to prevent the emergence of risk behaviours as well as prevent 
and treat new illness events. This paper describes a new method of assessing 
vulnerability to violent radicalization, and then investigates the role of 
previously reported causes, including poor self-reported health, anxiety and 
depression, adverse life events, poverty, and migration and socio-political 
factors. The aim is to identify foci for preventive intervention.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey of a representative population sample of men 
and women aged 18-45, of Muslim heritage and recruited by quota sampling by age, 
gender, working status, in two English cities. The main outcomes include 
self-reported health, symptoms of anxiety and depression (common mental 
disorders), and vulnerability to violent radicalization assessed by sympathies 
for violent protest and terrorist acts.
RESULTS: 2.4% of people showed some sympathy for violent protest and terrorist 
acts. Sympathy was more likely to be articulated by the under 20s, those in full 
time education rather than employment, those born in the UK, those speaking 
English at home, and high earners (>£75,000 a year). People with poor 
self-reported health were less likely to show sympathies for violent protest and 
terrorism. Anxiety and depressive symptoms, adverse life events and 
socio-political attitudes showed no associations.
CONCLUSIONS: Sympathies for violent protest and terrorism were uncommon among 
men and women, aged 18-45, of Muslim heritage living in two English cities. 
Youth, wealth, and being in education rather than employment were risk factors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090718
PMCID: PMC3944722
PMID: 24599058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.