[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dimitri Payet

goal in a 4–1 win over Metz. The midfielder appeared as a substitute in the match and had been on the field for no more than two minutes before netting the goal. After appearing in a league match against Toulouse on 4 February, Payet was relegated back to the reserve team for the rest of the season.

Ahead of the 2006–07 season, Payet signed a three-year professional contract with Nantes. He was officially promoted to the senior team and assigned the number 31 shirt by Le Dizet. After appearing as a substitute in the first two matches of the season, Payet made his first professional start on 9 September 2006 in a league match against Lille. In the match, he scored the equalizing goal in a 1–1 draw. Two weeks later, Payet started again and scored the opening goal in a 2–1 win against Marseille. Payet, subsequently, appeared as a starter for the rest of the campaign. He scored his only other goal during the season in a 1–1 draw with Sedan. One dark spot during the campaign was a straight red card in an embarrassing 5–2 loss to Valenciennes. Despite the successful individual season by Payet, Nantes ultimately finished the season in 19th place and were relegated, which meant the club would play in Ligue 2 for the first time since 1963.

Saint-Étienne
Following Nantes' relegation, Payet's desire to remain in the first division led the player to issuing a transfer request. The player was, subsequently, linked with Sochaux and Saint-Étienne. Payet ultimately decided to sign with Les Verts, stating the move to the club was a "straightforward logical answer" and that Saint-Étienne "can offer me the opportunity to play, which is a priority". Payet ultimately succeeded in getting the move after agreeing to a four-year contract with the club ahead of the 2007–08 season. Nantes was compensated €4 million for the player.

In his first season at Saint-Étienne, Payet struggled to assert himself into the team. He made his club debut on 4 August 2007 in a 1–1 draw with Monaco. Despite being a starter for the majority of the campaign, Payet scored no goals and also failed to provide any assists. In a reversal of fortune, despite Payet's sub-par season, Saint-Étienne finished in fifth place, which meant qualification to the UEFA Cup. In the 2008–09 season, Payet return to the form that resulted in Saint-Étienne signing the player. Prior to the start of the season, he was given the honour of captaining Saint-Étienne during a friendly against the Réunion national team in the player's return to the island. Payet appeared in 30 league matches scoring four goals and supplying six assists in the season. He scored his first league goal for the club on 29 September 2008 in a 1–1 draw with Bordeaux, netting the opener. In December 2008, he scored the game-winning goal against his former club Le Havre.

Payet featured in European competition for the first time after playing in the 2008–09 edition of the UEFA Cup. He made his debut in the competition on 18 September in the first leg of the team's first round tie against Israeli club Hapoel Tel Aviv. On his debut, he scored the opening goal in a 2–1 win. In the group stage, Payet scored a goal in a 3–1 win over Danish club Copenhagen. In the knockout rounds, Payet was instrumental to the team's 5–2 aggregate victory over Greek club Olympiacos. In the first leg, he assisted on a goal in a 3–1 win, while in the second leg, he netted the opener in 2–1 positive result. Saint-Étienne were eliminated from the competition in the next round by German club Werder Bremen, losing 3–2 on aggregate. Payet appeared as a substitute in both legs. Due to focusing its efforts on performing well in four competitions, Saint-Étienne finished one spot short of relegation in the league. On 22 July 2009, Payet signed a two-year contract extension with the club until 2013.