[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# USS Samuel Chase

USCG received the Bronze Star for meritorious performance as Assistant Boat group Commander aboard Samuel Chase during the assault on France on 6 June 1944.  Despite enemy gunfire, he closed the beach many times in order to provide the Group Commander with valuable data for carrying out the assault.

Operation Dragoon
Samuel Chase sailed on 4 July 1944 for the Mediterranean to participate in Operation Dragoon, the assault on Southern France. After embarking troops at Naples on 16 July, it landed them in the Bay of Pampelonne on 15 August. She then made several voyages in the Mediterranean transporting French personnel from Italy and Algeria to ports in Southern France before sailing from Oran on 25 October for overhaul at Boston, Mass., where she arrived on 8 November.

Pacific operations
Ordered to the Pacific Fleet, Samuel Chase departed Boston on 15 January 1945 and reached Pearl Harbor on 6 February and arrived at Leyte, Philippine Islands, on 4 March. She began amphibious training on 14 March, but struck a shoal during training two days later. She then transferred her troops to ; sailed east; and arrived at San Francisco on 24 April for repairs. The transport sailed again on 19 June for the western Pacific; and, after brief stops en route, arrived off Okinawa on 24 July. She remained off the beach there under frequent enemy air attacks which followed the Battle of Okinawa until sailing for Ulithi on 10 August.

After the Japanese surrender on VJ-Day, 15 August 1945, Samuel Chase sailed to San Pedro Bay in the Philippines, embarked occupation troops there between 26 August and 2 September, and delivered them to Yokohama, Japan, on 8 September. She then returned to the Philippines for more troops, whom she disembarked on Hokkaido on 5 October. Returning to the Philippines, she embarked personnel of a Seabee battalion, which she landed at Tsingtao, China, on 1 November. Reporting for "Operation Magic Carpet" duty on 15 November, the transport sailed from Tsingtao on 19 November and delivered a full load of homeward-bound troops at San Diego on 11 December. Coming under the control of the Naval Transportation Service, she made three more voyages to the western Pacific in the next six months, touching at Okinawa, Hong Kong, Yokosuka, Siapan, Guam, Peleliu, and Majuro. At least one of these voyages (6 April to 15 May 1946, round trip from San Francisco) was dubbed the "Diaper Brigade" by some of the sailors on board as dependants of occupation troops were carried to join their families.

Deactivation
The ship arrived at Norfolk, Virginia on 21 July 1946 for inactivation, was decommissioned there on 26 February 1947, and was laid up in the James River. The transport was struck from the Navy list on 1 October 1958 and transferred to Maritime Administration custody on 11 February 1959. She remained in the James River Reserve Fleet until 10 August 1973 when delivered to the Consolidated Steel Corp. of Brownsville, Texas after being sold for scrap for $116,660 on 9 May 1973.

Awards
Samuel Chase received 5 battle stars for her World War II service. North Africa, Sicily, Anzio, Normandy and Pampelonne.

 Combat Action Ribbon (2 awards – retroactive for North Africa and Okinawa)
 American Campaign Medal 
 European–African–Middle Eastern Campaign Medal 4 battle stars
 Asiatic–Pacific Campaign Medal with 1 battle star
 World War II Victory Medal
 Navy Occupation Medal with "ASIA" clasp
 China Service Medal
 Philippine Liberation Medal

References

 Omaha Beach – Force O – Americain D-Day.
 APA-26 Samuel Chase – Navsource Online (photographic record).
 APA/LPA (Attack Transports) – US Navy History website (DANFS)
 The Battle for Fox Green Beach, D-Day Normandy.
 "D-Day" Landings on "Omaha" Beach – US Navy History website.
 Nine wonderful years in the Coast Guard – Unofficial Coast Guard website.

 

Arthur Middleton-class attack transports
Ships built in Pascagoula, Mississippi
1941 ships
World War II auxiliary ships of the United States
World War II amphibious warfare vessels of the United States