[Source: Semantic Scholar | Fields:  | Year: 2024 | Citations: 3]

Title: Information Warfare as an Instrument of Geopolitical Influence on Ukraine: Main Aspects and The State's Response

Abstract:
The purpose of the article is to study information warfare as an instrument of geopolitical influence on Ukraine, the main aspects of this problem and certain elements of the Ukrainian side's response to the Kremlin regime's information attacks. To achieve this goal, the methods of comparison, analysis, synthesis and content analysis were used. The results indicate that the Russian side in the information warfare uses both traditional tools, such as the media, troll factories, bot factories, and fakes, and new technologies, such as deepfake. This arsenal is constantly evolving and adapting to technological advances. The Kremlin's main goal in the information warfare is to "undermine" Ukraine from within, creating the impression of close ties between Ukraine and Russia as a Eurasian state. Russian activities go beyond Ukraine, influencing public opinion in European countries, the United States and beyond. "Influence operations use social media platforms to spread individual narratives and sow hostility. To counter Russian influence, a program is being implemented to increase media literacy among the Ukrainian public. Ukrainian television companies are responding to the invasion by creating joint telethons that expand communication channels and counter disinformation. Individual tools, such as podcasts, are becoming important in countering disinformation. Ukrainian radio plays a key role in providing information in the occupied regions, and media literacy projects help to verify information and increase information literacy. Initiatives to develop media literacy and counter disinformation in Ukraine are widespread and effective. Results show that the level of resistance to propaganda has increased, and more than 70% of the population can recognize manipulative tactics. Government and civil society initiatives are working together to combat disinformation. Institutions such as the Center for Countering Disinformation and the Center for Strategic Communications are making an important contribution to the resilience of Ukrainian society.