[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yellow-bellied toad

The yellow-bellied toad (Bombina variegata) belongs to the order Anura, the  family Bombinatoridae, and the genus of fire-bellied toads. The toad is distributed mainly across western Europe as well as a handful of countries in eastern Europe. While the population of the toad is steadily decreasing over time, its numbers are not critical enough to be considered threatened or extinct. Conservation efforts in Germany are taking place to remedy the declining population before it is too late.

The toad is characterized by its bright ‘yellow belly,’ and has a dark brown and green dorsal body. The toad displays crypsis to camouflage itself from predators. It also positions itself to display yellow coloration when facing a threat. The warts found on the dorsal side allow for the toad's toxins to be readily excreted when needed.

The yellow-bellied toad is fascinating species to study because of its breeding choices; it chooses calculated risk when deciding to breed in shallow, unpredictable locations. Due to its breeding and egg laying behavior, climate change and habitat fragmentation heavily impact this species.

Description 
Specimens range from 28–56 mm, typically weighing between 2.3 and 12 g. This places them among the smaller members of the family Bombinatoridae, which can reach sizes of 7 cm. Their top side is grey-brown, often with washed-out, bright spots. Their under side, including the inner sides of the limbs, fingers, and toes, is grey-blue to black-blue with striking, bright yellow to orange spots or patches, usually covering more than half of the underside. Yellow-bellied toads have compact bodies - though not so flat as the related European fire-bellied toad - and a rounded snout. The pupils are heart-shaped, with the eardrums not visible. The overside has numerous warts with raised swirls. A study conducted by researchers from Brill Academic Publishers had concluded that there are sexually dimorphic differences noted within the species. Males of the species have notably longer humerus length resulting in a longer forelimb length; It is believed to give them an advantage while coupling and while fighting other males of the same species.

Variation
A study conducted by Bogdan Stugren and Stefan Vancea in 1968 on yellow-bellied toads in Romania and the USSR established eight different forms of B. variegata, expanding on the three forms previously posited by Michalowski in 1958. Each of these forms represents a ratio of yellow to black markings on the underside of the toad, ranging from nearly completely yellow (Form 1) to nearly completely black (Form 8). Stugren and Vancea found that the undersides of B. variegata specimens from northern regions typically had greater coverage by black markings than those that were found in southern regions.

Habitat and distribution 
The yellow-bellied toad is found in mountainous regions, typically in Western Europe. Within Europe, two species of Bombina exist, Bombina variegata and Bombina bombina. Due to postglacial advance of the latter, Bombina variegata has been found in lower numbers in comparison. The yellow-bellied toad is also found in a much smaller, more isolated, region. France, Germany, Belgium, and the Netherlands are the most common locations in which the toad would be found. Due to habitat disturbances, the areas of occupancy for the yellow-bellied toads have seen a significant decrease in size.