[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Polícia Judiciária

The  (PJ; ) is the national criminal investigation police agency of Portugal, focused in fighting serious crimes, including homicides, kidnapping, organized crime, terrorism, illegal drug trade, corruption, cybercrime and financial crime. It is integrated into the Ministry of Justice, but operates under the supervision of the Public Ministry.

Several countries and territories that were once overseas provinces of Portugal maintain criminal investigation police forces modeled after the Portuguese one, with some of them retaining also the name Polícia Judiciária. These are the cases of Cabo Verde, Guinea-Bissau and Macau.

The Polícia Judiciária Militar (Military Judiciary Police) is a separate criminal investigation police agency that operates under the Ministry of National Defense. This agency is responsible for the investigation of military crimes and crimes committed among the Portuguese Armed Forces.

History
In 1945, after a general police restructuring in Portugal took place, the Polícia Judiciária (Judiciary Police) such as it exists today was created by Decree-Law No. 35042 of 20 October 1945 under the direction of Judge Monteiro Júnior, and was organically integrated into the Ministry of Justice, replacing the Criminal Investigation Police (PIC).

Integrated into the general scheme of the ordinary procedural system and of the crime prevention and repression institutions, the Polícia Judiciária was defined as the entity in charge of "investigating criminal offences and finding their perpetrators, conducting preparatory investigations for the corresponding proceedings and organising crime prevention, mainly with regard to habitual crime".

In 1958, the Polícia Judiciária inaugurated its new premises at Rua Gomes Freire, in Lisbon, which were built resorting to prison labour. The building became the institution's headquarters, a situation which persists to this day.

The Forensic Science Laboratory, under the direction of Professor Alberto Ralha, and the Criminal Sciences Practical School, both organically integrated into the Polícia Judiciária, were founded in 1957.

The first major restructuring of the Polícia Judiciária occurred in 1977 under the direction of Judge Lourenço Martins. Decree-Law No. 364/77 of 2 September 1977 defined this police service as "a crime prevention and investigation service, assisting the administration of justice, hierarchically organised under the Minister of Justice".

The Judiciary Police School was established in 1978, based on the existing Criminal Sciences Practical School, in order to "ensure the training and retraining of the Polícia Judiciária staff", as well as to plan and implement actions for the selection, training and improvement of the Polícia Judiciária's officers.

Initially based in Lisbon, Oporto and Coimbra, a few years after its creation the Polícia Judiciária embarked on a process of territorial expansion, setting up new departments in various parts of the country, especially in areas with high crime rates.

In 1990, within the General Directorate of the Polícia Judiciária and besides the already existing Central Office for Combating Banditry, Decree-Law No. 295-A/90 of 21 September 1990 created the Central Office for Drug Trafficking Investigation, the Central Office for Investigating Corruption, Fraud and Economic and Financial Crime, as well as the Central Department for Information Registration and Crime Prevention from the then extinct Central Office for Prevention and Investigation and Central Records and Information Archive.

The Europol National Unit was created in 1996, organically integrated in the Polícia Judiciária and temporarily located in Leiria, from a structure that was already there ensuring connections with the then called Europol Drugs Unit, future "Europol".

Following a protocol signed by those responsible, the Polícia Judiciária, together with the other police and security forces and services, started a process of operational cooperation to combat drug trafficking based on information sharing, cooperation between forces, operational coordination and joint intervention.

In 2000, the national police structure was reformed following the approval of the Organisation of Criminal Investigation Act (LOIC). As a result, the Polícia Judiciária was restructured for the second time pursuant to Decree-Law No. 275-A/2000 of 9 November 2000. Both instruments were amended in 2008 with the publication of LOIC No. 49/2008 of 27 August 2008 and of the Polícia Judiciária’s new organic law, Law No. 37/2008 of 6 August 2008.