[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Zanzhi

lways present, the which seldom times doth happen: for that such as be culpable will sooner confess than suffer those torments, desiring rather to die some other death that is not so cruel, than to suffer the pains of this torment. (de Mendoza 1585, tr. Parke 1588, 143; adapted to modern typography)

.
As mentioned above, the 1655 English version of Semedo's 1643 Italian translation says:
The Rack is used also in certain necessary cases. I do not know that they have above two kindes of it. That of the feet, and that of the hands. For the feet they use an instrument called Kia Quen, it consisteth of three pieces of wood put in one Traverse, that in the middle is fixe, the other two are moveable, between these their feet are put, where they are squeezed and press, till the heele-bone run into the foot: for the hands they use also certain small pieces of wood between their fingers, they call them Tean Zu then they straiten them very hard, and seale them round about with paper and so they have them for some space of time. (Semedo 1655, 143; adapted to modern typography.)

George Staunton's 1810 Fundamental Laws of China was the first foreign translation of the 1740-1805 Great Qing Legal Code, and gives precise instructions for constructing legal instruments of torture, including the jiagun and zanzhi. Note: the approximate equivalents for the below Chinese units of length, 1 "Chinese foot" or chi (che) is 33 cm and 1 "Chinese inch" cun (tsun) is 33 mm.
Instruments of torture of the following dimensions, may be used upon an investigation of a charge of robbery and homicide: The instruments for compressing the ankle-bones, shall consist of a middle piece, 3 Che 4 Tsun long, and two side-pieces, 3 Che each in length; the upper end of each piece shall be circular, and 1 Tsun 8 decimals in diameter; the lower ends shall be cut square, and, 2 Tsun in thickness: At a distance of 6 Tsun from the lower ends, four hollows, or sockets, shall be excavated, 1 Tsun 6 decimals in diameter, and 7 decimals of a Tsun in depth each; one, on each side the middle-piece, and one in each of the other pieces, to correspond. The lower ends being fixed and immovable, and the ankles of the criminal under examination being lodged between the sockets, a painful compression is effected by forcibly drawing together the upper ends.
The instrument of torture for compressing the fingers, shall consist of 5 small round sticks, 7 Tsun in length, and 45/100 of a Tsun in diameter each: the application of this instrument is nearly similar to that of the former. In those cases wherein the use of torture is allowed, the offender, whenever he contumaciously refuses to confess the truth, shall forthwith be put to the question by torture; and it shall be lawful to repeat the operation a second time, if the criminal still refuses to make a confession. If the first application fails to elicit the truth, it is lawful to repeat the operation a second time, if the criminal still refuses to make a confession. (1810, 488-489) 

George Ryley Scott's popular 1940 The History of Torture Throughout the Ages quotes Semedo (1655) and Staunton (1810), adding that the kia quen and tean zu "were not applicable, however, to criminals under fifteen years of age or over seventy; to the diseased or the crippled." (Scott 1940, 103).

Other translations
Translating zanzhi into English is problematic. The near-equivalent word thumbscrew is also a torture device for the fingers but differs in design and construction. Chinese-English dictionaries and books about China generally describe the zanzhi:
"to squeeze, by pieces of wood put between the fingers, whilst the ends are compressed" (Morrison 1815, 209)
"Pieces of wood arranged so as to be drawn tight together by strings, and formerly used for squeezing the fingers of prisoners or witnesses in order to extort evidence, but declared under the present dynasty to be illegal" (Giles 1912, 1428)
"An instrument of torture for squeezing the fingers of prisoners or witnesses in order to extort evidence or confession" (Mathews 1931, 979)
"Press fingers between sticks as a form of torture" (Lin 1972)
"crush fingers between sticks (as torture)" (DeFrancis 1996)
"finger squeezer" (Theobold 2000)
"finger press" (Brook et. al 2008, 43)
"to squeeze the fingers (old form of torture)" (CEDICT 2022)

See also
Chinese finger trap

References