[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# So where the bloody hell are you?

words, "We're bloody well in the Coromandel."

In the aftermath of the 2008 Summer Olympics, British tabloid newspaper The Sun advertised posters aimed at Australians and asking "Where the bloody hell were you?" in reference to the number of gold medals Great Britain won in comparison to Australia.

Ashes version
An advertisement was produced to promote the Nine Network's television coverage of the 2006-07 Ashes series, in the style of this ad but on a cricketing theme (e.g., '"We've rolled the ground, we've put in the stumps"). The next sentence parodied the beer quote from the original ad but this time referencing the supposed English predilection for warm beer ("we've warmed up the beer"), then "we've hidden the sunscreen, and we've brought you some soap", and finally Australian captain Ricky Ponting descending the steps of a cricket ground stating, "And we've been waiting all year."

This ad also culminates in a bikini-clad Bingle asking "So where the bloody hell are you?" on the Sydney Cricket Ground, holding a cricket bat and wearing nothing but a green and gold bikini, white shoes, and leg pads. A coda is then provided by Richie Benaud saying "Marvellous".

Effectiveness of the campaign
On 6 December 2006, News Limited newspapers around Australia drew attention to the campaign's shortcomings. The A$180 million campaign had hoped to attract visitors to Australia from Japan, Germany and the United Kingdom, but tourist figures show that during October 2006 the number of Japanese tourists visiting Australia fell by 5.7% in comparison with the same period in 2005. German tourists were down 4.7% and UK visitors dropped 2.3%, although there was a slight increase in tourists from the United States and also the People's Republic of China (where the advertisement was not screened). Critics argue that the expensive campaign failed to deliver the promised increase in tourist numbers, with then opposition tourism spokesperson Martin Ferguson saying "We've been told it was a huge success and generated all these hits on a website but the latest tourism figures show the numbers are down."

In March 2007 The Age newspaper credited the ad with a $1.8 billion increase in tourism spending, and Tourism Australia stated that the primary goal of the campaign was to attract higher-spending, longer-staying visitors, not just to increase tourist numbers. After calling the ads "great" at the time of their launch when he was in Opposition, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd subsequently stated: "That campaign, every place I have visited in the world, has been basically described as an absolute rolled gold disaster."

See also
 Shrimp on the barbie – another often-quoted Australian tourism slogan
 Tourism in Australia

References

General
 Australian advert banned on UK TV — BBC News
 "Tourism spoof not bloody funny" — Sydney Morning Herald
 "What did we get for $180m?" — News.com.au

External links
 Downwind media website
 Where the Bloody Hell Are You? reviewed at The Inspiration Room Daily

2006 in Australia
2006 neologisms
Advertising and marketing controversies
Australian advertising slogans
Australian television commercials
British banned television advertisements
Censorship of broadcasting
Scott Morrison
Tourism campaigns
Tourism in Australia