[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Loudoun County in the American Civil War

vote of 1,626 to 726. The votes against secession came primarily from the northwestern part of the county, where some precincts voted as much as 7 to 1 against the Ordinance. The southern and eastern portions were strongly in favor of the measure, with some precincts voting unanimously in its favor.

Units and people
On April 18, one day after the passage of the Ordinance of Secession, yet over a full month before its passage by referendum, Governor John Letcher called out the Loudoun Militia in anticipation of the state's seizure of the Federal arsenal at Harpers Ferry.  The units drilled for 9 days before being ordered to Alexandria rather than Harpers Ferry, which was promptly abandoned without a fight. The militia fell back on Manassas Junction, where they were organized into regiments and battalions.  Meanwhile, back in Loudoun, recruiting efforts got underway, with men like William E. Harrison, James McCarty, both Virginia Military Institute graduates, and Eppa Hunton setting up shop in Leesburg.  The first two were recruiting for the newly created professional Provisional Army of Virginia, while Hunton was recruiting for the Volunteer army.  Professional soldiering was unattractive to most Loudoun men, and only four regiments from Loudoun were raised.  Hunton, meanwhile raised an additional two companies to supplement the four militia units already absorbed into his regiment.

On the other side of the mountain from Leesburg, in the Catoctin Valley, an entirely different situation had arisen. When the militia was called up, the 56th regiment out of Goresville, which drew from men on both sides of the mountain, mustered only the 60% of its ranks coming from the east of the Catoctin.  Faced with threats of arrest and property confiscation, many of Loudoun's most staunch and prominent Unionists began trickling across the Potomac into Maryland, including Samuel C. Means, Loudoun's wealthiest miller.  Many of these men enlisted in border units, such as the Maryland Home Brigades, forming on the north bank of the river.

Recruiting efforts for partisan units continued in the county throughout the war, most notably in late 1861 and early 1862, when Elijah White raised a Confederate command at Leesburg and Samuel Means the Union company at Waterford.  Beginning in 1863 to the end of the war, John Mosby regularly attracted Loudouners to his partisan command.

Confederate units

Infantry:
 8th Virginia Infantry,
Co. A, Hillborough Border Guard (Volunteer Corps)
Co. D
Co. E, Capt. Mandley Hampton's Co.
Co. F, Blue Mountain Boys
Co. H
Co. I, Capt. James R. Simpson's Co.
17th Virginia Infantry
Co. C, Loudoun Guard

Cavalry:
1st Virginia Cavalry
Co. H, Loudoun Light Horse (Carter's Company)
6th Virginia Cavalry
Co. A,  Loudoun Dragoons (The Dulany Troop)
Co. K,  Loudoun Cavalry
 7th Virginia Cavalry
 Co. G, (Mason's Rangers)
11th Virginia Cavalry
Co. H,  Octavus T. Weems' Co.

Artillery:
Longstreet's Corps
 Loudoun Artillery (Rogers')

Partisan:
 35th Battalion of Virginia Cavalry- "The Comanches"
Co. A, White's Rebels
43rd Battalion Virginia Cavalry – "Mosby's Rangers"
 John Mobberly's Gang

In addition to these Loudoun units, men from Loudoun served in the Richmond Howitzers, Stuart's Horse Artillery, Chew's Battery, Stribbling's Artillery, Gilmore's Battalion, the 34th Virginia Artillery, 40th Virginia Infantry and the 1st and 7th Georgia Infantry.

Union units

Cavalry:
1st Maryland Cavalry

Partisan and Border Guards:
 The Loudoun Rangers – "Mean's Rangers"
Co. A
Co. B
 1st Maryland Cavalry Potomac Home Brigade - "Cole's Cavalry"
 1st Maryland Infantry, Potomac Home Brigade - "Maulsby's Brigade"
 Blazer's Scouts

Important figures of Loudoun in the war
John Janney – Delegate to and president of the Virginia Secession Convention
Robert Chilton – Aide to Robert E. Lee, transcriber of the famed "Lost Order"
Eppa Hunton - Colonel, leader of the 8th Va. Infantry
Elijah V. White – Colonel, leader of the 35th Battalion Va Cav.; last leader of the famed Laurel Brigade
Samuel C. Means – Prominent Loudoun Unionist, founder and 1st commander of the Loudoun Rangers
John S. Mosby - Colonel, leader of the 43rd Battalion Va. Cav.
John Mobberly – Infamous partisan

Loudoun in the Eastern Theater