[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# HMS Saumarez (G12)

HMS Saumarez was an S-class destroyer of the Royal Navy, completed on 1 July 1943. As a flotilla leader, her standard displacement was 20 tons heavier than other ships of her class. She continued the tradition of flotilla leaders being named after prominent British seamen, in her case Vice-Admiral James Saumarez, 1st Baron de Saumarez of the late 18th and early 19th centuries.

Arctic convoys
After working up, the Saumarez was allocated to the 3rd Destroyer Flotilla, Home Fleet, and shortly after to the 23rd Destroyer Flotilla, working with the Arctic convoys. She was one of the escorts which sailed from Seyðisfjörður, Iceland on 23 October, taking with them five Russian minesweepers and six Russian motor launches, to bring back from the Kola Inlet thirteen ships which had been there since the Spring. The convoy (RA 54A) sailed from Arkhangelsk on 1 November and arrived in United Kingdom ports on 13 and 14 November without loss, although it had been delayed by thick fog. Saumarez escorted an outgoing Arctic convoy shortly afterwards, which also arrived without loss or damage.

Battle of North Cape

On 22 December Convoy RA 55A sailed from Kola, escorted by eight destroyers, including Saumarez, two Canadian destroyers, three corvettes and a minesweeper. The outgoing convoy, JW 55B, had left Loch Ewe on 20 December and was expected to reach Bear Island on Christmas Day about the same time as RA 55A. Cruiser cover was provided east of Bear Island by ,  and , and heavy cover by the battleship  and the cruiser .

Enigma intelligence alerted the Admiralty to the fact that Scharnhorst was being deployed, and early on 25 December allied ships were so informed. She was detected by the cruisers and after some hours trying to evade them and strike at the convoy, headed for home. The German vessel was intercepted and hit by Duke of York and a long chase followed. In the ensuing action, Saumarezs guns fired continuously for eleven minutes, followed by torpedo attacks. A shell from Scharnhorst, which did not explode, passed through the Director Control Tower, killing eleven men and putting the tower out of action. A near miss also damaged the forced lubrication system. Duke of York and the cruisers sank Scharnhorst, three hours after the first sighting. The four destroyers, Saumarez, ,  and the Norwegian  had scored at least three hits.

Saumarez steamed to Murmansk on one engine and after temporary repairs by the Soviets left for the UK. Following a refit, completed in March 1944, she was again part of the escort of a pair of Arctic convoys, JW 58 and RA 58, both of which reached their destinations unscathed. The successful Fleet Air Arm attack on the , which took place on 3 April, was synchronised with the passage of JW 58.

Normandy
In Operation Neptune, the landings in Normandy in June 1944, Saumarez was Senior Officer's ship of the 23rd Destroyer Flotilla, which gave naval gun fire support as part of Force S in the assault on Ouistreham. Saumarez and the destroyer  engaged a convoy of three or four minesweepers and one merchant vessel off St Peter Port, Guernsey on 14 August. The convoy was frequently hit and both destroyers sustained slight damage and casualties.

In September Saumarez was part of the escort of another Arctic convoy. She was refitted at Newcastle from November to January 1945, prior to joining the 26th Destroyer Flotilla, British East Indies Fleet.

Far East

Early in January 1945, Saumarez left from the Clyde to rendezvous with the aircraft carrier  and escort her from Alexandria to Colombo. She arrived at Colombo on 8 February and Trincomalee on 10 March. On 11 March Saumarez took part in a sweep in the Andaman Sea, with the destroyers  and . They found and destroyed a junk in Stewart Sound, but Rapid and Volage sustained damage and casualties from hits from a coastal gun reported to be 6 inch or larger. On 25 March, a further sweep was made.  A Japanese convoy was sighted the next day and engaged.  Although the destroyers attacked with gunfire and torpedoes they made few hits and, being low on ammunition, called on two Liberator bombers to sink the enemy. One of these sank one of the Japanese auxiliary, Risui with bombs. Volage sank the other auxiliary, Teshio Maru, with gunfire. Both escorts were also sunk. Saumarez was in Force 63 in April, when she bombarded Oleelhoe, Sumatra.