[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hamilton Police Service

afety across the Hamilton Harbour and for security policing on Commission-owned properties, a responsibility it maintained until 1986, when the constabulary was disbanded, with the security division privatized and the harbour policing division amalgamated into the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police.

In 1996, the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police entered into an agreement with the neighbouring Halton Regional Police Service to share a marine unit. This agreement was terminated in 2008, and the Halton Regional Police moved its marine unit to the Bronte Harbour.

Today, the Unit is responsible for patrolling the Hamilton Harbour, the entirety of the City's waterfront, and all inland waterways. The Unit actively patrols from mid-April until mid-November. In the off-season, it responds to calls for service on an as-requested basis.

In 2011, the Unit, with assistance from the Halton Regional Police, rescued a group of high-school rowers caught in a freak storm. Five Hamilton Police officers received the Rescue of the Year award from the Canadian Safe Boating Council for their work.

Mounted patrol

The mounted patrol unit (MPU) was formed in September 2009 and consists of five horses and six officers. 
The priorities of the MPU are to heighten the service’s ability to accomplish:

crime prevention
manage entertainment districts
conduct search and rescue
provide park and trail safety
public safety during large scale festivals and events, protests and demonstrations

MPU offers coverage throughout the city of Hamilton with rotating day, afternoon and night shifts.

Equipment

Fleet

Police cars, also known as police cruisers are the most common vehicle used by the Hamilton Police Service. The vehicles are numbered in regards to their division and car number. For example, 710-1 represents that the vehicle is from division 1 (central), and the preceding 710 is the vehicle designation number.  Vehicles assigned to uniformed patrol begin with a 7 for a car and a 6 for a sport utility vehicle.  Specialty units such as ERU and canine begin with a 9.

Motor vehicles

Support vehicles

Marine unit vessels

Aircraft

Bicycles

Weapons

In the 1990s, the majority of law enforcement agencies of Canada began wearing bulletproof vests and municipal police agencies started carrying semi-automatic handguns in the 9mm or .40 S&W calibre cartridge. The Hamilton Police carry  Glock 22 handguns with hollow-point .40 S&W calibre ammunition.

These firearms replaced the aging .38 Special revolver. A police cruiser might carry a Remington Model 870 shotgun capable of firing a variety of shotgun shells.  In 2018 patrol officers began carrying carbine rifles.

Other less-lethal weapons carried include conducted electroshock weapons, pepper spray, and  expandable batons. In addition, the personal equipment of police officers typically includes: handcuffs, flashlights, portable radios, notebooks, and a pair of disposable gloves and Kevlar gloves.

The emergency response unit (ERU) members are issued Glock handguns with 9 mm calibre ammunition.  They also use a variety of less-lethal weapons such as flexible baton rounds. Other weapons that have been used by ERU include:

 Tikka T3 .308
 Sako TRG .308 sniper rifle
 37 mm flare gas gun
 Ruger Mini-14 RETIRED
 Steyr AUG assault rifle RETIRED
 MP5A3 9 mm submachine gun RETIRED
 Remington 870 shotgun
 Remington Model 770 rifle
 Diemaco C8 carbine
 Taser International M18 taser
 Taser International X26 taser
 Pepper spray (OC spray)
 Tear gas (CS gas)
 Rubber bullets or bean bags rounds
 ARWEN 37 37 mm riot gun (and AR-1 plastic baton rounds, may also be available to the public order unit (POU) for crowd/riot control)

See also
 Hamilton Fire Department
Hamilton Paramedic Service
Hamilton Police Pipe Band
 Lincoln Alexander (Honorary Police Chief)
 Paul Manning
 Evelyn Dick
 Rocco Perri
 Musitano Crime Family

References

External links
 Hamilton Police Service Official website
 Hamilton Fire Department
 Hamilton Emergency Medical Services

Law enforcement agencies of Ontario
Municipal government of Hamilton, Ontario
1833 establishments in Upper Canada