[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Telerehabilitation

establishment of sustainable telerehabilitation services.

There continues to be a need for ongoing research to develop and validate the use of telerehabilitation applications in speech-language pathology in a greater number and variety of adult and paediatric communication and swallowing disorders.

Occupational therapy
Occupational Therapy Practitioners (OTP), work with people across the lifespan in order to facilitate independence, establish or rehabilitate roles, habits and routines. Occupational Therapy can be administered through means of telehealth, and since telehealth is often being performed in the clients' own environment, carry-over and efficacy of interventions is often increased. There are many types of occupational therapy intervention that can be provided through telehealth. Many positive outcomes have been reported across multiple intervention areas including: motor learning/relearning, ADL/IADL retraining (following CVA, TBI, Cancer, joint replacement, etc), functional cognitive training, home modification assessments, vision rehabilitation, pediatric therapies and family training. It is safe to consider telehealth as an emerging practice area for OTPs with evidence of efficacy mounting from various areas of practice.

Following the COVID-19 Pandemic, Medicare and many private insurance companies swiftly adopted Telehealth as a reimbursable option for provision of occupational therapy services, although Telehealth has been used for many years prior especially in rural areas. As the public health emergency is due to expire, many advocates of telehealth are working towards establishing more permanent measures to protect telehealth as a reimbursed service. The American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA) and World Federation of Occupational Therapists (WFOT) are both in support of Telehealth as a means to provide care. Most importantly, OTPs themselves are in support of making telehealth a permanent option for service delivery. Telehealth is a promising adjunct to in-person treatment for persons receiving occupational therapy services.

Physical therapy
Types of Physical rehabilitation therapies delivered through telerehabilitation include strengthening exercises, motor retraining, goal setting, virtual reality, robotic therapy, community-therapy.

Motor strengthening exercises are the most commonly implemented modality. In motor training exercises, a provider guides a patient through performing different motions and activities in order to regain strength and function. Motor training through telerehabilitation has consistently been shown to produce equivalent functional outcomes compared with in-person therapy. However, many patients require in-person therapy initially before transitioning to telerehabilitation.

Goal setting has been used in remote areas where cost and provider availability prohibit access to physical therapy. Patients work with a therapist to set personal goals and track their progress through sessions. Goal setting telerehabilitation has been shown to produce increased patient satisfaction and improvement in activities of daily living compared with a control group receiving no therapy.

Virtual reality therapy involves the use of a sensor to detect movement and a virtual environment displayed on either a screen or headset. Patients perform therapeutic movements that correspond to tasks within the virtual environment. This provides an immersive environment for the patient and allows computerized monitoring of patient progress. Studies that compared virtual reality with motor training exercises have shown equal or better outcomes with virtual reality.

Robotic therapy typically involves the use of hand and foot strengthening robots which provide resistance training and assist the patient with performing movements. Robotic devices can also obtain precise data on patient movements and usage statistics and transmit them to providers for evaluation. Robotic therapy has even been combined with virtual reality telerehabilitation to create a virtual environment which responds to robotic movements. Robotic telerehabilitation studies have shown patient improvement from baseline but equivalent functional outcomes compared with motor training exercises.

Community therapy is used to deliver education and therapy to patients remotely, either through group exercise sessions or through kiosks. Community therapy tends to have lower patient compliance than individualized therapy, but can deliver similar results if appropriately utilized.

Chronic respiratory disease 
Telerehabilitation for chronic respiratory disease

The latest evidence suggests that primary pulmonary rehabilitation and maintenance rehabilitation delivered through telerehabilitation for people with chronic respiratory disease reaches outcomes similar to centre-based rehabilitation. While there are no safety issues identified, the findings are based on evidence limited by a small number of studies.