[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fang Lijun

y can have a voice and everybody lives in freedom. The other approach describes death as a relief from this life. Because life is too stressful or too complicated, death becomes the best solution to escape from this world to go to a more peaceful place such as heaven.

"China/Avant-Garde" exhibition

This exhibition took place in February 1989. It was first denied access by the government. Some of the artists decided to move the artist's villages to begin to make a "department art". The target audience of the artists was not the public but other artists/painters among their circle of friends. Fang Lijun's works were shown during this exhibition. Due to the different economic and political times, there was a lot of attention that was being drawn from this exhibition among the artists. The intention was to motivate the movement of the society to reinforce a new structure of China. When the corruption happened, people started getting lost in direction of where to go or how to change the country. The China/Avant-garde called people together to make a bigger change, to fire up different movements that happened right after this exhibition

New Generation exhibition
This New Generation exhibition was held to draw people's attention to the Cynical Realism. This took place in July 1991 in the National History Museum in Beijing. There were many new major painters such as Fang Lijun, Liu Wei, Song Yonghong,  who participated and helped with this event. This exhibition is known as a starter for the trend of realistic painting. In this event, Fang Lijun and other new painters introduced new ideas on society, painting and art critique. His paintings in this exhibition mostly focused on the national identity, cultural change and other related issues through stereotypical bald head men, family style and people's faces.

Reception in Europe 
In October 2002, when Rolf Lauter became director of the Kunsthalle Mannheim, he met Alexander Ochs, an art dealer from Berlin, and asked him about showing young artists from Asia, especially China, with his support in the museum. In 2003, Lauter presented loans from Fang Lijun, Yue Minjun and Yang Shaobin in his second re-presenting of the collection in a temporary exhibition on the subject of "SelfSpace" with 19th century portrait sculptures by Maillol and Rodin, light boxes by Jeff Wall and works by Alex Katz. Especially the work "SARS" (later named "Untitled") by Fang Lijun, a large-format woodcut, attracted attention. Lauter wrote in his introductory text: "Opposed to the pictures by Katz is a work composed of seven printed scroll paintings in the size 400 x 854 cm by the Chinese artist Fang Lijun. In addition to a rising tendency towards "de-individualisation" of people, his work labeled "SARS" also addresses the "glowing" danger of the virus for the crowds in China" Unfortunately, Lauter‘s purchase request was not fulfilled in Mannheim at the time. Today versions of the work are in the collections of the MoMA and the Centre Pompidou Paris.

Exhibitions
1996: Human Images in an Uncertain Age, The Japan Foundation Asia Center, Tokyo .
1999: d'APERTutto, 48th Venice Biennale, Venice 
2001: Asian Fine Art, Berlin .
2002: Between Beijing and Dali, Woodcuts and Paintings 1989-2002, Ludwig Forum Fur InternationaleKunst Aachen .
2003: Die Neue Kunsthalle II:  natürlich – körperlich – sinnlich / The New Kunsthalle II: natural - physical - sensual, Kunsthalle Mannheim November 24, 2003 – March 7, 2004. Booklet: Rolf Lauter.
2004: Leben Ist Jetzt, Alexander Ochs Galleries Berlin, Beijing, Berlin, Germany .
2005: National Galerie/China Art Museum, Beijing, China  .
2006: Kupferstichkabinett Staatliche Museen zu Berlin, Germany .
 2016: Chinese Whispers, Museum of Fine Arts Bern, Bern, Switzerland 

He has shown work internationally in exhibitions including The Next Ones at Alexander Ochs , Beijing, New Work, New Acquisitions at the Museum of Modern Art  in New York City and Alors, la Chine? at the Pompidou Centre  in Paris.

References

External links
Fang Lijun at 88MoCCA - the Museum of Chinese contemporary art on the web
Fang Lijun at Thomas Erben Gallery 
Fand Lijun – Hanmo Gallery

1963 births
Living people
20th-century Chinese painters
21st-century Chinese painters
Painters from Hebei
People from Handan