[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# History of Harringay (1880–present)

ish-born residents beginning to be replaced by an influx of mainly Irish and Greek Cypriot immigrants (between 1959 and 1961 10,000 English-born people left the borough of Hornsey, including Harringay, while among the newcomers were over 9000 born outside the UK - 3000 from the Republic of Ireland).

By the 1950s the area was especially popular with Greek immigrants from Cyprus and it began to take on a distinctly Greek side to its character with the Greek Cypriots, and the Turkish Cypriots who followed, initially largely engaged in the garment industry. Although by the late 1980s the Greek population was beginning to disperse, the Cypriot connection remained as Turkish Cypriots, and then Turks and Kurds, began to occupy many of the shops on Green Lanes. As a result, it gained a reputation as a lively area with many Turkish restaurants, jewellers, and fruit and vegetable shops. For a short period Turkish and Kurdish criminal groups used Green Lanes as a base to run national drug operations and more local protection schemes. Such activity subsided followed a police crackdown after the death of a man in a street battle in November 2002.

Despite their ubiquitous presence along Green Lanes, the Turks and Kurds were not present in great numbers in the residential streets of Harringay. A number of the houses were converted to flats and a new wave of more affluent young middle class professionals began to move in, taking advantage of the fact that, despite rapidly appreciating property prices, Harringay was one of the relatively more affordable areas within easy access of central London to buy or rent a home. Following the expansion of the European Union after 2004 to include eleven central and east European states, many migrants from these countries, especially Poles, also moved into Harringay and by the end of the decade Polish shops were becoming an increasingly common sight along Green Lanes.

From 1965 Harringay formed part of the new London borough of Haringey, incorporating the former municipal boroughs of Hornsey and Tottenham and controlled by the Labour Party since 1971. After the reorganisation of parliamentary constituencies in 1982 all of it was included within the Tottenham constituency. This was politically significant because Tottenham (Tottenham North and South until 1950) has returned Labour members to the House of Commons ever since 1935 while Hornsey (Hornsey and Wood Green after 1983) returned Conservatives from its creation in 1885 until 1992 (when Labour first won the now marginal seat, then lost it to the Liberal Democrats in 2005 and regained it in 2015).

The changing social composition of the neighbourhood had political repercussions. Although the Labour Party managed to retain control of the borough in the 2006 and 2010 local elections, fending off a strong challenge from the Liberal Democrats, it lost two of the three seats in the Harringay ward to the Liberal Democrats in both polls. As had been the case a century earlier, despite lying just to the east of the north–south railway marking the political fault line across the borough (in 2010, except in Harringay, Labour won all the council seats to the east and none to the west), the increasingly middle class residents of Harringay at the beginning of the 21st century were again demonstrating their difference. However, Labour again won all the Harringay ward seats in 2014, retaining them with an increased majority four years later.

The area retained its original Victorian architectural landscape almost intact. Beyond the few war damaged buildings and a small proportion of post-war infill building, the Electric Cinema on the corner of St Ann's Road was the only Victorian building to be replaced. The commercial frontage on Green Lanes however was not preserved and is now an eclectic mix of late 20th and early 21st century commercial styling.

Entertainment

The Stadium and Arena

Harringay Stadium opened in 1927 as a major greyhound racing venue, the stadium was soon serving a dual purpose, also host to a famous speedway track.  Next door the shorter-lived Harringay Arena opened in 1936 between the Stadium and Green Lanes. It was home, amongst many other things, to ice hockey, boxing, circuses, greyhound racing, stock car racing, the Horse of the Year Show (from 1949 to 1958), classical music and a famous crusade by the American evangelist Billy Graham in 1954.  The Arena had closed by 1958, while the Stadium continued racing dogs until 1987.

However, things were nearly very different. In 1912, when Arsenal Football Team was seeking to relocate from Woolwich, Harringay was one of three sites, along with Battersea and Highbury, shortlisted for the team's new ground. The proposed site in Harringay was presumably where the stadium and arena were built in the 1920s and 1930s.

Cinemas