[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Cristina Yang

lot together: weddings, deaths, drownings, plane-crashes, bomb-threats, shootings, you name it, they've lived (and danced) through it." and added, "And with the 3 words, "You're My Person", Meredith Grey and Cristina Yang solidified their status as the small screen's best best-friends ever."

Awards

Oh has received numerous awards and nominations for her portrayal of Yang. In 2005, she was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series, which she was nominated for every year until 2009. Also in 2005, she was nominated for Best Supporting Actress – Series, Miniseries or Television Film at the 10th Satellite Awards. The next year, the cast won the Satellite Award for Best Cast – Television Series. In 2006, Oh won the award for Best Supporting Actress – Series, Miniseries or Television Film at the 63rd Golden Globe Awards. In 2006, the cast was nominated for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series, which they won in 2007, and were nominated for again the following year. Also at the 12th Screen Actors Guild Awards, Oh won the award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series. In 2010, Oh was nominated for Outstanding Actress in a Drama Series at the 41st NAACP Image Awards, which she was nominated for again in 2012, and in 2011, she was nominated for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series at the 42nd NAACP Image Awards. In 2011, Oh was nominated for Favorite TV Drama Actress and Favorite TV Doctor at the 37th People's Choice Awards an award she was nominated again for three years later at the 40th People's Choice Awards and also the subsequent year at the 41st People's Choice Awards. She was also nominated alongside Pompeo for the Favorite TV Gal Pals category.

References 
Specific

General

External links 
Cristina Yang at ABC.com

Fictional American Jews
Fictional feminists and women's rights activists
Fictional characters from Beverly Hills, California
Television characters introduced in 2005
Fictional surgeons
Grey's Anatomy characters
Fictional characters with dyslexia
Fictional female doctors
Fictional Jewish women
Atheism in television
American female characters in television
Fictional cardiothoracic surgeons
Fictional Korean American people