[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

presentatives to the Twentieth Zionist Congress. On August 15, Tsirelson spoke at the World Agudath Israel congress in Karlovy Vary, where he pleaded for an Orthodox–Revisionist alliance: "I decree that all pious Jews must support the Jewish state. The main thing is to ensure the rule of the Torah."

Ahead of legislative elections in December, the PER announced that it would present its own candidates in all of Romania's counties, but only ended up covering most of these. In late November, it was still discussing an alliance with the UER. Published on December 5, the new party manifesto, was also signed by all three Fischers, as well as by Weissman, Sami Singer, Benvenisti, Tsirelson, Marton, Rosenstein, Mendelsohn, S. Rosenhaupt, Segal, Mizrachi, Kertész, Nobel, Markus Krämer, S. Nussbaum, Tumarkin, and Iakerkaner. It identified the PER with "Jewish parliamentary representation" as the "protective body of collective Jewish interests", inviting Jews to support it "regardless of your religious, cultural and social views". The document also explained that the PER would not caucus with the democratic opposition: "Those opposition parties [...] today feel compelled to avoid any actions or statements that would give their opponents the opportunity to prove that there is any kind of agreement between them and our country's Jewish population. Understandably, they basically had to resist any attempt at reaching out to the Jewish organizations."

This return to national politics was described as a provocation by the Sephardi polemicist Napoléon B. Arié, who was especially critical of the PER's promise to provide the Jews with a proportional representation in public offices. Arié also rejected Tsirelson's claim that only the PER could illustrate the existence of Jews as a nation, since "Romania's Parliament is not merely a diet of the nationalities." A similarly critical analysis was provided by Gheorghe Zane of the PNȚ chapter in Iași. At a regional rally on December 5, Zane remarked: "the submission of separate candidacies by the Jewish Party is a mistake—Jews should not be isolating themselves politically." An unnamed PNL leader from Bessarabia predicted on December 15 that the PER would not manage to collect many votes, since its candidates were "not at all liked by the Jews themselves." This situation was manifest in Brăila, where PER delegate David Cohn was faced with the hostility or indifference of local Jews; none of the six PER candidates in that section were born in the county, and the list had to be submitted with support from Christians—"not enough proponents could be recruited from Brăila's own Jews".

Several local alliances were still sealed. As reported in Curentul, the Magyar Party left Maramureș to the PER, which instead allowed its partner to "lure voters" from Hunedoara and Mureș. According to one report in Adevărul, the PER chapter in Botoșani only put up a symbolic fight against the PNL, having "some obligations left" from the previous deals. At the time, the Fischers had in fact agreed to a Transylvanian collaboration between the PER and the National Peasantists, though maintaining separate lists. This move sparked outrage when it became apparent that the PNȚ had a non-aggression pact with the Iron Guard. According to Zissu, the situation signified a "betrayal of the Jewry's interests". Benvenisti also called Fischer's tactic a "grave mistake." In a 1946 plea, PNȚ leader Iuliu Maniu argued that the agreement was solely for electoral transparency and against government fraud. He recalled that the PER and the Social Democrats had adhered to it on November 26, 1937, which was one day after the Guard; according to Maniu, this indicated that the pact could not be read as condoning Guardist antisemitism.

Nationally, the PER won 1.42% of the vote, again below the electoral threshold. The only parliamentarian still representing Jews was Chief Rabbi Jacob Itzhak Niemirower, who held a supplementary seat in Senate. He was twice physically assaulted by LANC militants. The Jewish Party was touched by the antisemitic laws first reintroduced by the National Christian Party (PNC) government of Octavian Goga in the final days of 1937. Weissman, by then the PER's vice president, was suspended from the Bucharest Bar, following a review of his Romanian citizenship; in all, some 30% of the Romanian Jews being eventually stripped of their citizenship rights.