[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Seyed Hossein Mousavian

isted, Iran has no interest in acquiring nuclear weapons. He offered ten reasons for this, among them that developing nuclear weaponry would be considered "forbidden or haram" under Islam, would "trigger a regional nuclear arms race," and would be contrary to Iran's goal of becoming a modern nation.

In another December 2012 article, Mousavian argued that "U.S. strategists... should understand... the role of religion and clerics" in Iran. Noting that the world's "most powerful ideological-political party... is the Shia Cleric Organization in Iran," he complained that "Western policymakers and some of their 'Iranian experts'... have yet to realize that the clerical system... is a collective decision-making process, with heated discussions and debates among about twenty of the most revered Grand Ayatollahs in the country." Washington, he emphasized, "needs to recognize that Islam is the main source of Iranian power, and the religious establishments will play a key role in the future developments of Iran and the region...Instead of changing Iran's government, the United States should focus its regional policy on three key areas: addressing the Palestinian issue, engaging moderate Islamists, and pursuing a regional security pact."

In a January 2013 New York Times op-ed headlined "How to Talk to Iran," Mousavian and Mohammed Ali Shabani argued that there will be no “resolution of the nuclear standoff” between Iran and the West if Western leaders fail to grasp two key concepts: "maslahat," meaning "expediency, or self-interest" and "labor," meaning "face – as in, saving face." For millennia, they wrote, "Persian culture has been distinguished by customs that revolve around honor and esteem....There are almost no instances in modern Iranian history when maslahat has trumped aberu. The West has poorly understood these concepts. This was particularly true under President Bush, who rewarded Iran’s tacit acceptance of the American invasion of Afghanistan by labeling Iran a member of an 'axis of evil.'" Mousavian and Shabani expressed the belief that "Iran would be open to new measures regarding the transparency of its nuclear program and would agree not to pursue any capability to enrich uranium beyond that needed to fuel atomic power plants, if its legitimate right to enrichment under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty was recognized and if an agreement to remove sanctions was reached."

Mousavian is a member of the International Panel on Fissile Materials, an organization that works to end the production and use of enriched uranium and plutonium.

Iranian Nuclear Crisis: A Memoir
Reviewing Mousavian's 2012 book, Iranian Nuclear Crisis: A Memoir in the Wall Street Journal, Sohrab Ahmari said that although the book “is billed as a memoir,” it is more of “a diplomatic brief, complete with awkward bureaucratic prose and key sections stippled by bullet points.” Ahmari drew attention to “the endnotes, where an editor felt obliged to acknowledge where the author parts company with the public record,” as in an assertion that Iran had fully disclosed the details of its nuclear activities to the IAEA.

Bibliography 

Imam Khomeini: His Life and Leadership, 1990, Saffron Publications, London, UK
Islamic Thinkers of Germany, 1995, Institute for Political and International Studies (IPIS), Iranian Foreign Ministry
Challenges of Iran-West Relations; Analysis of Iran-Germany Relations, 2006, The Center for Strategic Research
Iran-Europe Relations: Challenges and Opportunities, 2008, Routledge Press, London, UK
Additional Protocol and Islamic Republic’s Strategy, 2008, The Center for Strategic Research
Human Rights: Trends and Viewpoints, 2008, The Center for Strategic Research
The Iranian Nuclear Crisis: A Memoir, 2012, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
Iran and the United States, An Insider’s View on the Failed Past and the Road to Peace, Co-authored with Shahir Shahidsaless, 2014, Bloomsbery

Critical studies and reviews of Mousavian's work
Iran and the United States

References

External links

Princeton University Site
 Official Personal Website

Iranian diplomats
Iranian prisoners and detainees
Living people
Prisoners and detainees of Iran
Alumni of the University of Kent
Ambassadors of Iran to Germany
International Atomic Energy Agency officials
Iranian nuclear negotiators
1957 births
Moderation and Development Party politicians
People convicted of espionage in Iran
Islamic Republican Party politicians
Iranian industrial engineers