[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

ies are left on the street. A British soldier on the scene reported that the car contained three men in "Provisional Government uniform" and three more in trench coats – presumed to be from the CID intelligence unit.
Three unarmed Free State soldiers are shot at Glasson, near Athlone. One is killed.

September 1922
A civilian, Livingstone Cooke, is shot dead by gunmen thought to be Republicans, at Old Blackrock Road, Cork City.
2 September – 
Republicans attack Macroom, County Cork with infantry and a captured armoured car. They withdraw after a seven-hour fire fight.
Republicans attack Free State troops while they are drilling in front of the City Club in Cork city. They drive up in a lorry and open machine-gun fire on the Free State troops, killing two and injuring six.
Two Free State soldiers are killed in an ambush at Watergrass Hill, County Cork.
There are attacks by Anti-Treaty fighters on Free State troops in Dublin city centre and Tallaght and Rathfarnham in County Dublin. In an ambush, one civilian is killed, and a Free State soldier and another civilian are wounded. Two Free State soldiers are wounded in an attack in Rathfranham and the RIC barracks there is destroyed.
Three CID police are shot in an ambush at Dean Grange, Dublin, one later dies.
Anti-Treaty IRA members Leo Murray and Rodney Murphy, Deans Grange are shot in their beds at lodge house of Newpark Lodge, Stillorgan, Dublin. Another, John Joe Stephens, Bellek, Fermanagh is taken from his lodgings at 7 Gardiner Place and shot at Naas Road, Dublin, the following day. National Army or CID personnel are assumed to be responsible.
3 September – Massbrook House, Crossmolina, County Mayo is burnt down by Republicans.
4 September – An Anti-Treaty IRA unit under Liam Pilkington takes Dromhaire barracks, County Sligo. The Free State garrison there surrenders.
A civilian is shot dead by Free State troops in a raid on a shop at Capel Street, Dublin.
4 September – 
A Free State convoy is ambushed near Aughatubrid, County Kerry. Two Free State soldiers are killed and two wounded. One Republican is wounded and captured.
The Castle in Ballina, the historic seat of the Earl of Arran, is burnt and destroyed by Republicans. Around 350 priceless paintings in the Earl's art collection are destroyed.
5 September – A secret meeting takes place between Richard Mulcahy and Éamon de Valera, political leader of the Republicans, to try to arrange a truce. However, according to de Valera, they, "couldn't find a basis" of agreement.
A large party of Republican fighters attack Carrickmacross barracks, County Monaghan. The attack is unsuccessful but one Free State soldier is killed.
A Free State soldier is assassinated at Barrack Street, Cork, while visiting his family.
There are gun attacks on Free State posts in Waterford City. One civilian, Kate Walsh is killed. Separately two bodies of anti-Treaty fighters, buried clandestinely after a previous action are dug up in Waterford.
Republicans ambush Free State troops in Glenacone County Limerick, but are worsted in the ensuing action. One IRA officer, D Finich of Cork 2 Brigade is killed and 12 prisoners are taken. Two Free State soldiers are wounded.
6 September – A Free State column is ambushed outside Kilkelly, County Mayo by Anti-Treaty fighters. The Free State troops have five wounded and claim to have killed seven Republicans.
A skirmish takes place in Mitchelstown, County Cork. One Anti-Treaty officer is killed and 12 of his men are captured.
8 September – Republican activist Timothy Kenefick is abducted from his home in Cork city by Free State troops. He is shot dead and his body is dumped near Macroom. Anti-Treaty fighters attack Free State posts protecting the railway line around Limerick Junction, County Tipperary. One Free State soldier and one Republican are killed and several others wounded in the fighting.
9 September – Republicans attack and take Kenmare in County Kerry. A total of 84 Anti-Treaty fighters take over the town and shoot dead local pro-treaty officer Tom "Scarteen" O'Connor and his brother after taking them prisoner. They take 120 Free State troops in the town prisoner, but later release them. They capture 110 rifles and 20,000 rounds of ammunition. This action allowed the Kerry Anti-Treaty units to pursue a fairly effective guerrilla campaign for the remainder of the war.
A British intelligence report states that the Free State intelligence unit, the Crime Investigation Department or CID has, "murdered a number of prominent Republicans" in Dublin.
Anti-Treaty fighters attack the barracks at Carrickmacross. One Free State soldier is killed and two wounded in the firing. A civilian is also killed in the crossfire.
10 September – Anti-Treaty ambush of Free State troops near Rathmore, County Kerry. Seven Free State soldiers are killed. The Republicans retreat after an artillery piece is brought up to fire seven shells at them.
Republicans take Tarbert, County Kerry temporarily, capturing 40 r