[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dagestan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic

and math, instruction was also carried out in the Lak language.  Although he was initially protected from the purges of the Stalin era due to his place as a chairman on a Soviet sharia court, he was eventually arrested and deported to Kazakhstan, where he would spend the remaining years of his life.

Late Soviet Era 
Migrations and social changes forced on the indigenous ethnic groups of Dagestan oftentimes led to conflict among these groups. Ethnic Kumyks originated in the plains region of Dagestan and were largely more secular due to Soviet Atheist influence, however due to forced displacement of many of the traditionally mountainous and more strictly Islamic Avar people, conflict began to arise. Initially, contact with the Avar drew many Kumyk towards the interpretation of Islam practiced by them. However, ethnic conflict began to arise during the late Soviet period when the economy began to worsen. This culminated in some Kumyk developing their own strict Wahabist interpretation of Islam. This conflicted with the Avar interpretation of Islam, which was now seen in the eyes of many Kumyk as too "Sovietized."

Demographics 

Dagestan is home to many indigenous Northern Caucasian ethnic groups, such as the Avar, Dargin, Lezgin, and other groups such as the Kumyk, Nogai, and Azeri. The largest ethnic group in Dagestan, the Avar, are divided into about 15 subgroups. There are also many ethnic Russians in this region who arrived after the era of Russian conquest. The predominant religion of Dagestan is Sunni Islam, however there is also a minority of Russian Orthodox Christians. Although Dagestan was one of the most religious regions of the Soviet Union, state atheism was enforced in Dagestan, as well as the other North Caucasus republics of the Soviet Union. 

The largest cities in Dagestan are the capital of Makhachkala, as well as Derbent, Kizlyar, Buynaksk, and Izberbash.

Gallery

See also
Republic of Dagestan
List of leaders the Dagestan ASSR
First Secretary of the Dagestan Communist Party
Flag of the Dagestan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic

Notes

References

Autonomous republics of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic
States and territories established in 1921
Former socialist republics
1921 establishments in Russia
1991 disestablishments in the Soviet Union