[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brian Howard (English footballer)

"largely anonymous" in the final as United lost 1–0 to Burnley.

Reading

Howard began the 2009–10 season in Sheffield United's starting eleven, but on 2 September 2009, he signed for Championship rivals Reading on a three-year contract for a fee of £500,000; James Harper went the other way on loan.

He scored his first goal for the club on 20 October against Queens Park Rangers, a late consolation with Reading already 4–0 down. During the match against Derby County on 28 November, Howard suffered mild concussion and a fractured jaw in a clash of heads. He was out for several weeks recovering from surgery to insert metal plates in his jaw. In the FA Cup fifth round against West Bromwich Albion, Howard volleyed over the goalkeeper only to hit the crossbar before scoring a 94th-minute equaliser; Gylfi Sigurðsson's "brilliant curling winner" in extra time put Reading into the quarter-finals for the first time since 1927. He stood in as captain for four matches towards the end of the season while Matt Mills served a suspension.

Howard was sent off against Middlesbrough in September for a late tackle. In mid-March 2011, he was linked with a move back to Southampton. He remained at Reading, making 28 appearances over the season and contributed to their reaching the play-offs, but was an unused substitute in the semifinal second leg and the final, as Reading lost to Swansea City. He then stated that if Reading were unable to give him regular football, he would prefer to leave. Howard spent three months on loan at Championship club Millwall in the first half of the 2011–12 season. He said he expected to leave Reading in the January transfer window, but no move took place, and he was released when his contract expired in June 2012.

Portsmouth
After a pre-season trial with Portsmouth, who were rebuilding a squad after losing all their senior players because of the club's administration, Howard was one of ten players to sign a one-month contract on 16 August 2012. He was named captain. Howard scored his first goal in a Football League Trophy match at home to Bournemouth on 4 September, but was relieved of penalty-taking duties in October after missing twice in a week. In January, Howard was one of a number of players given a week's notice that their contracts would not be renewed, and they duly left the club.

Bristol City
On 15 February 2013, Howard signed a contract until the season's end with Bristol City, taking shirt number 11. His first appearance was as a substitute in the Severnside Derby against Cardiff City the next day, and he made a further five appearances, all as a substitute, before being released at the end of the season.

CSKA Sofia
Howard signed a one-year contract with Bulgarian A Football Group club CSKA Sofia in August 2013. He played 13 games, 11 in the League, before returning to England during the mid-season break.

Birmingham City
Howard joined yet another Championship club, Birmingham City, in January 2014 until the end of the season. After making his debut in a 2–0 defeat at home to Yeovil Town, Howard's first goal for Birmingham, a 48th-minute flicked header from Paul Caddis's cross, opened the scoring at home to Derby County on 1 February; the match finished 3–3. He suffered a broken toe and ankle problems, and after just three more appearances, he was released when his contract expired.

Oxford United
Howard joined Oxford United on 15 September 2014. His contract ran until January 2015 with the option of extending until the end of the season, but played only infrequently and was released in December.

Later career
In January 2015, Howard signed for Conference Premier club Eastleigh until the end of the season. In September 2015, he joined Alresford Town, and by the end of the season had played 18 matches and scored 6 goals in all competitions, with 4 goals from 15 matches in the Wessex League. He moved to Romsey Town for the start of the 2016–17 season before switching in January 2017 to Brighton-based National League South club Whitehawk.

International career
Howard played for England from under-16 to under-20 level. Howard, whose father is from Glasgow, was called up by Scotland manager George Burley for their friendly match against Croatia on 26 March 2008; however he was deemed ineligible by FIFA as he had not registered his availability at a young enough age. Attempts to have the decision overturned proved fruitless.

Career statistics

Honours
Barnsley
Football League One play-offs: 2005–06

Individual
PFA Championship Team of the Year: 2007–08

References

External links

Brian Howard profile at The SaintsHub
Alresford Town profile