[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Taiyuan campaign

The Taiyuan campaign was a campaign of the Chinese Civil War fought between the nationalist and communist factions.  The campaign was over the control of Taiyuan, the capital of the . The campaign resulted in a communist victory.

Prelude
After the end of the Central Shanxi campaign, the majority of the province had fallen into the communist hands, and the nationalists were left with only two cities in entire Shanxi: Taiyuan, the provincial capital, and Datong.  In order to take control of the entire province, the communists decided to launch the Taiyuan campaign in mid-October 1948.  Communist commander Xu Xiangqian was put in charge, facing his adversary Yan Xishan, his nationalist counterpart who had just suffered a humiliating defeat in the hands of Xu in the Central Shanxi campaign. Yan appeared to be determined to fight to the end and repeatedly claimed in public that he would go down with the city of Taiyuan, but Yan would ultimately be airlifted to Nanjing. The communists began to mass their troops in places including Qingyuan (清原), Taigu (太谷) and Yuci (榆次) for the preparation of the attack on the provincial capital.

Order of battle
First Stage:
Nationalists: 6 Armies totaling 20 Divisions
14 infantry divisions
3 Columns (Divisions)
3 Specialized Divisions
Communists:
Units of 7th Column
Units of 8th Column
Units of 13th Column
Units of 15th Column
Second Stage:
Nationalists: 2 Corps totaling 6 armies
X Corps
XV Corps
Communists:
Units of XVIII Corps
Units of XIX Corps
Units of XX Corps
Units of the 7th Army
Units of the 1st Artillery Division of the Fourth Field Army
Units of the 3rd Artillery Division of the communist North China Military Region

Strategy

The nationalist defenders had some significant advantages in terms of geography: the rugged mountainous terrain strongly favored the defenders and prevented large numbers of attackers from being effectively deployed.  When the attackers were forced to reduce their numbers, they were furthered confronted by a large numbers of complexes of fortifications and bunkers.  The nationalist defense parameter bordered by the Yellow Camp (Huang Zhai, 黄寨) and Zhou Family's Mountain (Zhou Jia Shan, 周家山) in the north, Wuxiu (武宿) and the Town of Little Hotel (Xiao Dian Zhen, 小店 镇) in the south, Rocky Thousand Peak (Shi Qian Feng, 石千峰) in the west, and Han (罕) Mountain in the east.  Within this defense parameter, there were more than 5,000 large bunkers outside the city wall alone, and additionally, important positions such as regions of Ox and Camel Camp (Niu Tuo Zhai, 牛驼寨), Lesser Yaodong Head (Xiao Yao Tou, 小窑头), Mountain Peak (Shan Tou, 山头), and Zhuo Ma (淖马) to the east of the city, the Twin Pagoda Temple (Shuang Ta Si, 双塔寺) to the southeast of the city, and Crouching Tiger Mountain (Wo Hu Shan, 卧虎山) to the northeast of the city were all fortified as bunker complexes.  The nationalist 30th Army was airlifted from Xi'an to Taiyuan to further strengthen the urban defense, while the total nationalist artillery pieces gathered for the defense of the city was more than six hundred.

The defenders of Taiyuan itself first divided the city into four sectors, the eastern, western, northern and southern sectors, but this was soon further split into five when the eastern sector was further divided into northeastern and southeastern sectors.  A total of eleven divisions were tasked to defend these five defensive sectors while another six divisions were used as mobile strike force.  The rest three divisions were used as reserves.  To counter the nationalist defense, on September 28, 1948, Xu Xiangqian decided the communist strategy of gradually annihilating the defenders in the outskirt of the city, hopefully when they were out of their fortifications, and then to take the city.  The first step was to breach the nationalist defense from southeast and northwest, and preventing the use of the two airports by artillery bombardment.  The second step would be taking the nationalist strongholds of Mountain Peak (Shan Tou, 山头), Zhuo Ma (), the Twin Pagoda Temple (Shuang Ta Si, 双塔寺) and others, and the last step was to take the city from northeast and southeast.