[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Insurgency in Laos

vanished militarily as well as ideologically. A correlated movement of sporadic insurgents succeeded the LNLF and while divided into the congruent style of multiple minimally-proportioned bands of insurgents, have been estimated to contain a strength nearing 2,000 to 3,000 men as of the early 1990s.

Right-wing insurgency 
An insurgency politically correlative to the Royalist insurgency led by the United Front for the Liberation of Laos (LPNLUF) and minor allied similar groups had also transpired around the same time period, and reportedly was equipped with a strength of 40,000, Chinese and Khmer Rouge funded and trained right-wing insurgents who placed their desire to expel Vietnamese political and military standing in Laos above any other goal. While the movement managed to proclaimed their own provisional or "liberation" government (speedily disbanded by the Lao military), this insurgency proved to be as by chance less effective than the lesser-trained Royalist-focused insurgency.

This insurgency has no reported standing in terms of force within Laos today. While its claims have never been verified nor widely accepted, the LPNLUF claims to have put some one-third of Laotian territory under its provisional jurisdiction before it was put down by the Lao government.

The insurgents of the LNLF were largely former Royalist government officials who had fled into exile after the Kingdom of Laos' demise in 1975 in the conclusion of the Laotian Civil War and Vietnam War. The LNLF proved successful in recruiting fair numbers of rural militiamen from Champassak and Savannaket provinces. Individual units varied from as few as ten men to as many as 50, and all of these operated with little coordination.

Human rights and refugee situation
In Laos there exists a large population of CIA-trained Hmong veteran soldiers who fought as American allies against Communist forces, which, during the insurgency were persecuted for their political beliefs. Fearing reprisals, retribution, retaliation and persecution, around half of the 300,000 Hmong in Laos were forced to flee, becoming refugees and settling in countries such as the United States.

See also

United Front for the Liberation of Oppressed Races
FULRO insurgency against Vietnam
2007 Laotian coup d'état attempt
Royal Lao Government in Exile
Laotian Civil War
The Center for Public Policy Analysis

References

External links
FactFinding.org  – information about the Hmong veterans of the Secret War remaining in the jungles of Laos (requires Adobe Flash)
"Acts of Betrayal", by Michael Johns, National Review, 23 October 1995.
Clips from "Hunted like animals" – a documentary by Rebecca Sommer on the plight of the Hmong in Laos and problems faced by those facing repatriation from Thai refugee camps
The Hmong Crisis: The Secret Tragedy of Laos 

20th-century conflicts
20th century in Laos
21st-century conflicts
21st century in Laos
History of Laos (1945–present)
Hmong
Hmong-American culture and history
Indochina Wars
Insurgencies in Asia
Politics of Laos
Proxy wars
Third Indochina War
Violence against indigenous peoples
Wars involving Laos
Wars involving Vietnam