[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Peruvian Army

der-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. They are organized as follows:

 Comandancia General del Ejército (Army General Command)
 Estado Mayor General del Ejército (Army General Staff)
 Inspectoría General del Ejército (Army General Inspectorate)
 Secretaría General del Ejército (Army General Secretariat)

Operational units are assigned to one of the following military regions, which are directly subordinate to the Army General Command through the Ground Operations Command.

1st Army Division

North Military Region and 1st Division, formerly known as the Northern Army Detachment. Headquartered at Piura.

 1st Cavalry Brigade (Sullana)
 1st Infantry Brigade (Tumbes)
 7th Infantry Brigade (Lambayeque)
 32nd Infantry Brigade (Trujillo)
 6th Jungle Brigade (El Milagro)
 9th Armored Brigade

2nd Army Division

Central/North Central Military Region and 2nd Division, headquartered at Lima.
 18th Armored Brigade (Lima)
 2nd Infantry Brigade (Ayacucho)
 1st Special Forces Brigade (Lima)
 3rd Special Forces Brigade (Tarapoto)
 1st Army Aviation Brigade (Callao)
 "Mariscal Domingo Nieto" Cavalry Regiment Escort (Lima)
 Guard Brigade of the Army "Peruvian Guard Legion" (Lima)
 1st Mechanized Cavalry Regiment "Hussars of Junín" (Lima)
 1st Mechanized Infantry Battalion Peruvian Legion of the Guard
 1st Artillery Battery (Separate)
 1st Combined Arms Brigade
 21st Infantry Brigade (Reserve)

3rd Army Division

South Military Region and 3rd division, headquartered at Arequipa.

 3rd Armored Brigade (Moquegua)
 6th Armored Brigade
 3rd Cavalry Brigade (Tacna)
 4th Mountain Brigade (Puno)
 5th Mountain Brigade (Cuzco)
 6th Special Forces Brigade
 3rd Divisional Communications Brigade
 3rd Divisional Air Defense Artillery

4th Army Division
4th (South Central) Military Region and Division.

2nd Infantry Brigade
31st Infantry Brigade
32nd Engineering Brigade
33rd Infantry Brigade

5th Army Division
Eastern Military Region and 5th Division, headquartered at Iquitos.

 5th Jungle Brigade (Iquitos)
 35th Jungle Brigade
115th Logistics Brigade

Personnel

Ranks

Ranks of the officers, sub-officers and others enlisted of the Army. 

Officers

Enlisted

Equipment

Future Equipment

The Peruvian Ministry of Defence has awarded a US$67 million contract to General Dynamics Land Systems-Canada for 32 Light Armoured Vehicles (LAVs) for the Peruvian Marines. The contract was signed through the Canadian Commercial Corporation, a Crown corporation of the Government of Canada. In 2016, the Defense Security Cooperation Agency of the United States made a determination to approve a possible Foreign Military Sale to Peru of 178 reconditioned Stryker infantry carrier vehicles. In 2023, amidst the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the United States was reported to be pushing Central and South American countries with large quantities of Russian equipment to provide them to Ukraine, by either donating them or exchanging them for U.S. military equipment. Analysts report that Peru is a likely candidate, due to their large quantities of Russian equipment.

Heroes and Patrons
Patron of the Army: Francisco Bolognesi Cervantes
Patron of the Infantry branch: Andrés A. Cáceres Dorregaray
Patron of the Cavalry branch: Ramón Castilla y Marquezado
Patron of the Artillery branch: José Joaquín Inclán Gonzáles Vigil
Patron of the Engineering branch: Pedro Ruiz Gallo
Patron of the Communications branch: José Olaya
Patron of the Legal Service: Mariano Melgar
Patron of the Health Service: José Casimiro Ulloa Bucello
Patron of the War Material Service: Leoncio Prado Gutiérrez
Patron of the Intendancy Service: Pedro Muñiz Sevilla

Anthem of the Army

See also
 Cenepa War
 Ecuadorian–Peruvian War
 Inca army
 Paquisha War
 War of the Pacific

References

Sources
  Basadre, Jorge, Historia de la República del Perú. Editorial Universitaria, 1983.
  Cobas, Efraín, Las Fuerzas Armadas Peruanas en el Siglo XXI. CESLA, 2003.
Cruz, César, "Latin America Air Forces Survey – Peru". Air Forces Monthly 220: 77–78 (July 2006).
International Institute for Strategic Studies, The Military Balance 2000–2001. IISS, 2000.
  Mejía, Lewis and César Cruz, "La Aviación del Ejército del Perú".Defensa 290: 42–48 (June 2002).
  Ministerio de Defensa del Perú, Libro blanco de la defensa nacional.
  Rial, Juan, Los militares tras el fin del régimen de Fujimori-Montesinos.https://web.archive.org/web/20070927210407/http://www.resdal.org/art-rial.htm
  Tecnología Militar, N°1/2006 
  Marchessini, Alejo, "Plan Bolognesi: Actualidad y Futuro del Ejército del Peru". Defensa 347 (March 2007).
 Aircraft information files Brightstar publishing File 344 sheet 4

External links

Official Peruvian Army Website
Maquina de Combate
Latin American Light Weapons National Inventories

 
1821 establishments in Peru