[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# James Ensor

ing as military figures violently quell a protest. These prints are very rare today because Ensor attempted to remove them from circulation after being named Baron and many others were lost during the war.

The Seven Deadly Sins

Honour
 1919: Commander of the Order of Leopold.

Influence and legacy

Ensor is considered to be an innovator in 19th-century art. Although he stood apart from other artists of his time, he significantly influenced such 20th-century artists as Paul Klee, Emil Nolde, George Grosz, Alfred Kubin, Wols, Felix Nussbaum, and other expressionist and surrealist painters of the 20th century. As Los Angeles County Museum of Art CEO and Wallis Annenberg Director Michael Govan has explained: "James Ensor's signature style – his radical distortion of form, his ambiguous space, his riotous color, his muddled surfaces, and his proclivity for the bizarre – both anticipated and influenced modernist movements from symbolism and German expressionism to dada and surrealism."

Ensor's works are in many public collections, notably the Modern Art Museum of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels, the Royal Museum of Fine Arts in Antwerp, and Mu.ZEE in Ostend. Major works by Ensor are also in the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Musée d'Orsay, Paris, the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, and the Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne. A collection of his letters is held in the Contemporary Art Archives of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Brussels. The Ensor collections of the Flemish fine art museums can all be seen at the James Ensor Online Museum.

Ensor has been paid homage by contemporary painters and artists in other media. The Belgian artist Pierre Alechinsky (b. 1927) and noted member of COBRA, painted The Tomb of Ensor (1961) in homage to Ensor, which is now in the collection of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. He is the subject of a song, "Meet James Ensor", recorded in 1994 by the alternative rock duo They Might Be Giants. The 1996 Belgian movie, Camping Cosmos, was inspired by drawings of James Ensor, in particular Carnaval sur la plage (1887), La mort poursuivant le troupeau des humains (1896), and Le bal fantastique (1889). The film's director, Jan Bucquoy, is also the creator of a comic Le Bal du Rat mort inspired by Ensor.

An exhibition of approximately 120 works by James Ensor was shown at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City in 2009, and then at the Musée d'Orsay, Paris, October 2009 – February 2010. The Getty mounted a similar exhibition June–September 2014. The Art Institute of Chicago exhibited Ensor's 1887 masterpiece The Temptation of St. Anthony from November 2014 through January 2015, along with other important paintings and etchings. From October 2016 through January 2017, the Royal Academy of Arts in London hosted a major exhibition of Ensor's paintings and etchings, curated by the Belgian artist Luc Tuymans. The black artist Kara Walker painted a controversial work, "Christ's Entry into Journalism", inspired by Ensor in 2017.

The yearly philanthropic "Bal du Rat mort" (Dead Rat Ball) in Ostend continues a tradition begun by Ensor and his friends in 1898.

In the movie Halloween (1978), a poster of one of Ensor's self-portraits appears on the wall of a room in Laurie Strode's (Jamie Lee Curtis) home.

References
Citations

Works cited
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Further reading
 Berko, Patrick & Viviane (1981). "Dictionary of Belgian painters born between 1750 & 1875", Knokke 1981, p. 272–274.
 Janssens, Jacques (1978). James Ensor. New York: Crown Publishers Inc.

External links

 
 James Ensor Online Museum
 James Ensor Archief – Publications by or with the cooperation of Patrick Florizoone
 The Royal Museums' Modern Art Collection: 19th-century symbolism, with Ensor's Skeletons fighting for a smoked herring
 Exhibition at the Royal Museum of Fine Arts of Antwerp: "Ensor and the Moderns"
 The Getty Museum: James Ensor
 James Ensor: The Temptation of Saint Anthony digital exhibition catalogue
 Flemish Art Collection: James Ensor, Graphic Artist 
 "Goya, Redon, Ensor Grotesque paintings and drawings" 2009 Special Exhibition at KMSKA
 2009 Ensor show at Museum of Modern Art, NYC
 Sanford Schwartz, "Mysteries of Ensor," New York Review of Books, 24 September 2009.

1860 births
1949 deaths
19th-century Belgian painters
Belgian male painters
19th-century Belgian male artists
20th-century Belgian painters
20th-century printmakers
Artists from Ostend
Académie Royale des Beaux-Arts alumni
Barons of Belgium
Belgian Expressionist painters
Belgian people of English descent
Belgian printmakers
Belgian satirists
Belgian Symbolist painters
Members of the Royal Academy of Belgium
Modern painters
Belgian atheists
20th-century Belgian male artists