[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Police misconduct

olice record all no-knock raids. In recent times, police departments have been trying to implement the body camera as a step to fixing misconduct. The police departments in Pittsburgh have been trying body cameras on their officers to see both the positive and negative aspects of using body cameras.

Recording by witnesses has made a significant impact on the notability and handling of police incidence, such as the Rodney King beating.

Advantages and Disadvantages of Body Worn Cameras - Police Misconduct

Although body worn cameras(BWCs) can record several situations involving law enforcement misbehavior, the key question is whether they're able to also prevent it. In an effort to enhance interactions between the police and the community, several police departments are beginning to use BWCs. Which agencies are implementing them and which police agencies are not? In this article, the authors highlight how not all police departments around the nation are utilizing video recording technology. Law enforcement agencies who do not believe the new technology is necessary, who indicate a lack of support for BWC adoption from the agency's leadership and from patrol personnel, and who have privacy and cost-related concerns, report resistance to the use of BWCs. Police departments that registered a higher percentage of complaints for the excessive use of physical force are significantly more likely to be against the adoption of BWCs, even though the authors' discussion of the perceived lack of public support for the adoption of BWCs does not distinguish between agencies that intend to acquire BWCs and agencies that do not. Police agencies who have already purchased other types of recording technology have a substantially higher level of support for the use of BWCs. Results showed that law enforcement agencies located in US states with strong police unions are more likely to show resistance to the adoption of BWCs soon, even though recent state level legislative changes related to BWCs do not have a significant impact on BWC adoption decisions at the organization level.

Studies on BWC toward police misconduct

Some studies suggest that body-worn cameras may offer benefits while others show either no impact or possible negative effects when it comes to police misbehavior and many police agencies choosing whether to use BWCs in hopes of reducing police misconduct or strengthen the police and community ties. As an example, some studies have examined the claimed benefits of BWCs, including the ability to reduce citizen complaints and police use of force. Early research claimed that using BWCs lowered both outcomes significantly, but several subsequent investigations have failed to find similar results. for example, one study based on data from a randomized controlled trial conducted by the Spokane (WA) Police Department in which BWCs were issued to about 82 patrol officers in May and the remaining officers in November of the same year.  This research evaluates the influence of BWCs on use of force, complaints against police, and officer injuries using more than three years' worth of official department data, both before and after the deployment of BWCs.

Another study examines how BWCs are marketed as a technological improvement that will result in more pleasant interactions between police and residents. There have been attempts to explain how BWCs impact various policing outcomes, but little research has been done on how BWCs influence assaults on police. In this current study is limited to a few jurisdictions and has minimal relevance to a broader spectrum of police organizations. This study explores the relationship between BWCs and police victimization by focusing on total assaults and attacks with guns against police officers using data from a sample of 516 police organizations. The data show that BWC usage is negatively associated with police victimization. The study concludes that BWCs can help prevent the occurrence of both moderate and severe violence against police in a variety of circumstances and among a wide spectrum of law enforcement organizations.

Although there are many studies on why implementing BWCs in the hope of reducing police misconduct and the use of force by law enforcement toward citizens, there are many studies that also show the challenges that come with implementing BWCs. Techno-fixes by themselves will not resolve underlying issues of fractured community–police relations, including ongoing issues of racial and ethnic antagonism and colonialism, and may even exacerbate these tensions. True reform requires establishing bonds of trust between communities and police that acknowledge the importance of procedural treatment, which may be supported by but are not dependent on BWCs.