[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HHV Infected Cell Polypeptide 0

like neuronal factors may silence herpes genes in neurons, blocking the production of other immediate-early genes such as ICP4 and reducing production of ICP22.  The repressed production of immediate-early HSV genes may contribute to the establishment of latency during infection with herpes viruses.

CoREST and NRSF combine with another cellular protein, histone deacetylase-1 (HDAC) to form a HDAC/CoREST/NRSF complex. This complex silences production of the HSV-1 protein ICP4 by interfering with chromatin remodeling of the viral DNA that is necessary to allow viral gene transcription; it deacetylates histones associated with viral DNA in viral chromatin.  Furthermore, an NRSF-binding region is located between the viral genes expressing proteins ICP4 and ICP22.  ICP0 interacts with coREST, dissociating HDAC1 from CoREST/NRSF in the HDAC/CoREST/NRSF complex and preventing the silencing of the HSV genome in non-neuronal cells.

Suppression of ICP0 activity

Interaction with latency-associated RNA transcript (LAT) 

During latent infection a viral RNA transcript inhibits expression of the herpes virus ICP0 gene via an antisense RNA mechanism.  The RNA transcript is produced by the virus and accumulates in host cells during latent infection; it is known as Latency Associated Transcript (LAT).  A chromatin insulator region between promoters of the LAT and ICP0 genes of the HSV-1 genome may allow for the independent regulation of their expression.

Silencing of ICP0 gene activity by ICP4 
Although it is tempting to hypothesize that LAT is the repressor of the ICP0 gene, evidence supporting this hypothesis is lacking. Recent data suggest that ICP4 strongly suppresses the ICP0 gene, and ICP0 antagonizes ICP4.  The balance between ICP0 and ICP4 dictates whether the ICP0 gene can be efficiently transcribed.

Homologs across Herpes virus species 

The ICP0 gene and protein from HSV-1 have orthologs in related viruses from the herpes virus family. HSV-2 ICP0 is predicted to produce a polypeptide of 825 amino acids with a predicted molecular weight of 81986 Da, and 61.5% amino acid sequence similarity to HSV-1 ICP0.  Simian varicella virus (SVV) is a varicellovirus that, like HSV-1 and HSV-2, belongs to the alphaherpesvirinae subfamily of herpes viruses. SVV expresses an HSV-1 LAT ortholog known as SVV LAT, and an HSV-1 ICP0 ortholog known as SVV ORF-61 (Open Reading Frame 61).  Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV) is another varicellovirus in which a homolog of HSV-1 ICP0 gene has been identified; VSV ORF-61 is a partial homolog and a functional replacement  for HSV-1 ICP0 gene.

See also
 ICP-47

References 

Herpesviridae
Proteins