[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# County of Nice

signed the Armistice of Cassibile with the Allies, German troops invaded the region on 8 September 1943, and initiated brutal raids. Alois Brunner, the SS official for Jewish affairs, was placed at the head of units formed to search for Jews. Within five months, 5,000 Jews were caught and deported.

The area was returned to France following the war and in 1947, the areas of La Brigue and Tende, which had remained Italian after 1860 were ceded to France. Thereafter, a quarter of the Niçard Italians living in that mountainous area moved to Piedmont and Liguria in Italy (mainly from the Roya Valley and Tenda).

Creation of Alpes-Maritimes

As the county was too small to form its own department, the Government of France added it to the arrondissement of Grasse, detached from the neighboring Var department, to create the  department. Since 1926, the county has been largely coterminous with the arrondissement of Nice, one of two arrondissements of the , in the  region. Nevertheless, the term County of Nice ( in Niçard dialect) continues to be in use to identify the territory as a distinct cultural and historical region, particularly to distinguish it from the neighboring Provence.

The historical language used by inhabitants of the County of Nice was Niçard, though it has been almost entirely supplanted by French since 1860. Since 2010, the statue  on the  commemorates the 150th year of Nice's annexation.

Francization of the toponyms of the municipalities of the County of Nice
The Francization of the toponyms of the municipalities of the County of Nice was the process, imposed by the French authorities, of replacing the official Italian toponyms with francized names for its 101 municipalities which formed the arrondissement of Nice after the annexation to France in 1861 following the Treaty of Turin (for some territories in 1947 following the Treaty of Paris).

See also
 Bishopric of Nice
 Provence
 Italia irredenta
 Italian irredentism in Nice

References

Sources

 Amicucci, Ermanno. Nizza e l'Italia. Mondadori Editore. Milano, 1939.
 Barelli Hervé, Rocca Roger. Histoire de l'identité niçoise, Nice: Serre, 1995. 
  (flag/history).

External links
  Territorial changes in the history of the County of Nice
  Dances and traditional musics used in the County of Nice
 

Duchy of Savoy
Kingdom of Sardinia
Alpes-Maritimes
County of Nice
1100s establishments in the Holy Roman Empire
1108 establishments in Europe
States and territories established in the 1100s
1860 disestablishments in Europe
1860 disestablishments in Italy