[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# May 1974

ortstop, 2002 American League MVP and 2004 major league RBI leader; in Baní
Germán Paoloski, Argentine journalist and TV host; in Coronel Suárez, Buenos Aires Province
Died: Donald Crisp, 93, English-American film actor, 1942 Academy Award winner for Best Supporting Actor for How Green Was My Valley

May 26, 1974 (Sunday)
In the 1974 Luxembourg general election, the representation of the Christian Social People's Party (CSV) in the Chamber of Deputies decreased from 21 out of 56 seats to 18 out of 59. Prime Minister Pierre Werner, a member of the CSV, and his coalition cabinet resigned the following day.
Almost 800 girls were injured, 14 seriously, in a human crush at a David Cassidy concert at London's White City Stadium. One Cassidy fan, 14-year-old Bernadette Whelan, became comatose from traumatic asphyxiation, and died of her injuries four days later.
The collapse of an apartment building, under construction in Kuwait City, took place while 150 workers were inside as concrete was being poured on the sixth floor. Ten injured people were rescued, and four bodies were recovered, but police said that "scores of others were feared missing."
Johnny Rutherford won the 1974 Indianapolis 500 at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.
Swedish driver Ronnie Peterson won the 1974 Monaco Grand Prix on the Circuit de Monaco.
The Jorkanden mountain peak,  high, was climbed for the first time. A team from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police scaled the highest of the peaks in the Kinner Kailash mountain range of the Greater Himalayas, located in India's Himachal Pradesh state.
Born: Lars Frölander, Swedish swimmer and 2000 Olympic gold medalist in the 100m butterfly; in Boden, Norrbotten County
Died:
Stewart Alsop, 60, American newspaper columnist, died of acute myeloblastic leukemia.
Kitty Gordon (stage name for Constance Minnie Blades), 96, English silent film star in the 1910s

May 27, 1974 (Monday)
The nationwide railway strike in India was abruptly ended by the Action Committee of the All India Railwaymen's Federation (AIRF), 20 days after its start. Over three weeks, more than 30,000 union members had been arrested under India's preventive detention law, including AIRF president George Fernandes. The Indian government began releasing prisoners the next day.
Valéry Giscard d'Estaing was inaugurated as President of France at the Élysée Palace. His four-minute inaugural address was one of the briefest in history, and had only 12 sentences. Five hours later, Giscard d'Estaing appointed Jacques Chirac, the Minister of the Interior, as Prime Minister.
In Boulder, Colorado, the murder of six Hispanic-American residents began with the explosion of a bomb planted in the car of lawyer Reyes Martinez at Chautauqua Park. Martinez, his girlfriend Uma Jaakola and her friend Neva Romero were all killed in the blast. Two days later another car bomb exploded in the parking lot of a Burger King restaurant that had closed for the night, killing Florencio Granado, Heriberto Teran and Francisco Dougherty. Another person, Antonio Alcantar Jr., who was standing outside the car, survived but lost a leg. Nearly 50 years later, no suspect had been arrested for the killing of "Los Seis de Boulder" (Spanish for "The Boulder Six").
In Brazil, 13 of the 14 people aboard a boat on the Parana River were killed when the watercraft capsized in the river, infested with piranhas.
Barbara Forrest, 20, was raped and strangled in Pype Hayes Park, Erdington, Birmingham, England. Forrest's co-worker Michael Ian Thornton was charged with her murder but would be acquitted due to lack of evidence. In a bizarre coincidence, the murder of Mary Ashford, which led to the Ashford v Thornton criminal case, also took place in Pype Hayes Park on May 27, 1817, 157 years to the day before Forrest's murder. In each case, a suspect with the surname Thornton was acquitted of the crime.
Funeral services for Duke Ellington attracted 12,500 people to New York City's Cathedral of St. John the Divine, with the Suffragan Bishop of New York presiding. McHenry Boatwright, Ella Fitzgerald, Earl Hines, Ray Nance, Lou Rawls, Joe Williams, and Mary Lou Williams performed during the service. Present also were Pearl Bailey (representing President Nixon), Count Basie and Jack Dempsey.
Born:
Sébastien Foucan, French founder of freerunning and developer of the sport of parkour; in Paris
Marjorie Taylor Greene, American conservative politician and conspiracy theorist, U.S. Representative for Georgia since 2021; in Milledgeville, Georgia
Dr. Margaret "Mags" Portman, British physician and developer of preventative treatment for HIV using the technique of pre-exposure prophylaxis; in Leeds (d. 2019 from mesothelioma)
Arbi Barayev, Chechen terrorist and leader of the Special Purpose Islamic Regiment; in Alkhan-Kala, Checheno-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, Soviet Union (killed in gun battle, 2001)
Gürkan Uygun, Turkish TV actor known for 10 seasons of Kurtlar Vadisi (Valley of the Wolves);