[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 60]
# The Republic — Plato

what I
have told thee is true. And thou wilt be doubly indebted to me, in that
I have left thee this realm and have taught thee how to keep it.”

After this there came to Castruccio those citizens of Pisa, Pistoia,
and Lucca, who had been fighting at his side, and whilst recommending
Pagolo to them, and making them swear obedience to him as his
successor, he died. He left a happy memory to those who had known him,
and no prince of those times was ever loved with such devotion as he
was. His obsequies were celebrated with every sign of mourning, and he
was buried in San Francesco at Lucca. Fortune was not so friendly to
Pagolo Guinigi as she had been to Castruccio, for he had not the
abilities. Not long after the death of Castruccio, Pagolo lost Pisa,
and then Pistoia, and only with difficulty held on to Lucca. This
latter city continued in the family of Guinigi until the time of the
great-grandson of Pagolo.

From what has been related here it will be seen that Castruccio was a
man of exceptional abilities, not only measured by men of his own time,
but also by those of an earlier date. In stature he was above the
ordinary height, and perfectly proportioned. He was of a gracious
presence, and he welcomed men with such urbanity that those who spoke
with him rarely left him displeased. His hair was inclined to be red,
and he wore it cut short above the ears, and, whether it rained or
snowed, he always went without a hat. He was delightful among friends,
but terrible to his enemies; just to his subjects; ready to play false
with the unfaithful, and willing to overcome by fraud those whom he
desired to subdue, because he was wont to say that it was the victory
that brought the glory, not the methods of achieving it. No one was
bolder in facing danger, none more prudent in extricating himself. He
was accustomed to say that men ought to attempt everything and fear
nothing; that God is a lover of strong men, because one always sees
that the weak are chastised by the strong. He was also wonderfully
sharp or biting though courteous in his answers; and as he did not look
for any indulgence in this way of speaking from others, so he was not
angered with others did not show it to him. It has often happened that
he has listened quietly when others have spoken sharply to him, as on
the following occasions. He had caused a ducat to be given for a
partridge, and was taken to task for doing so by a friend, to whom
Castruccio had said: “You would not have given more than a penny.”
“That is true,” answered the friend. Then said Castruccio to him: “A
ducat is much less to me.” Having about him a flatterer on whom he had
spat to show that he scorned him, the flatterer said to him: “Fisherman
are willing to let the waters of the sea saturate them in order that
they may take a few little fishes, and I allow myself to be wetted by
spittle that I may catch a whale”; and this was not only heard by
Castruccio with patience but rewarded. When told by a priest that it
was wicked for him to live so sumptuously, Castruccio said: “If that be
a vice then you should not fare so splendidly at the feasts of our
saints.” Passing through a street he saw a young man as he came out of
a house of ill fame blush at being seen by Castruccio, and said to him:
“Thou shouldst not be ashamed when thou comest out, but when thou goest
into such places.” A friend gave him a very curiously tied knot to undo
and was told: “Fool, do you think that I wish to untie a thing which
gave so much trouble to fasten.” Castruccio said to one who professed
to be a philosopher: “You are like the dogs who always run after those
who will give them the best to eat,” and was answered: “We are rather
like the doctors who go to the houses of those who have the greatest
need of them.” Going by water from Pisa to Leghorn, Castruccio was much
disturbed by a dangerous storm that sprang up, and was reproached for
cowardice by one of those with him, who said that he did not fear
anything. Castruccio answered that he did not wonder at that, since
every man valued his soul for what is was worth. Being asked by one
what he ought to do to gain estimation, he said: “When thou goest to a
banquet take care that thou dost not seat one piece of wood upon
another.” To a person who was boasting that he had read many things,
Castruccio said: “He knows better than to boast of remembering many
things.” Someone bragged that he could drink much without becoming
intoxicated. Castruccio replied: “An ox does the same.” Castruccio was
acquainted with a girl with whom he had intimate relations, and being
blamed by a friend who told him that it was undignified for him to be
taken in by a woman, he said: “She has not taken me in, I have taken
her.” Being also blamed for eating very dainty foods, he answered:
“Thou dost not spend as much as I do?” and being told that it was true,
he continued: “Then thou art more avaricious than I am