[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gerald Guterman

erman continues to develop condominium housing, with recent communities in Chicago, Illinois;  Fort Myers, Florida;   Fort Pierce, Florida;  Naples, Florida;  Ocean Springs, Mississippi;  Biloxi, Mississippi;  St. Paul, Minnesota and Phoenix, Arizona and Houston, Texas

A bar mitzvah aboard the QE2 

In September 1986, Guterman drew media attention when he chartered the famed ocean liner Queen Elizabeth 2 along with a crew of over 1,000, for his 13-year-old son's bar mitzvah party. Although the QE2 had been chartered for cruises by corporations, the Guterman family party was a first of its kind, said a spokesman for the Cunard line. The guests were mostly relatives, friends and neighbors of Gutermans who lived in Bedford, N.Y., in Westchester County, or friends of the children from camp or school.  In attendance were numerous politicians and real estate figures including New York City Council, President Andrew J. Stein, Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin. The ship set sail at 6 p.m. though helicopters continued to touch down on the sports deck to drop off late-comers, including Ivan F. Boesky, the stock and investment speculator.  When asked about the cruise in a recent interview for his upcoming biography, Guterman remarks that he maintains mixed feelings about the event.  "On the one hand, it was a fantastic and extraordinary celebration for my family.  As a father, I was proud of my children and wanted to give them the things I never had growing up as a poor kid in Brooklyn.  On the other hand, when you wind up on the front page Leisure Section of New York Times, you leave yourself open for backlash, especially in those rare times of financial struggle."

The Guterman Collection 

Beginning in the 1970s, Guterman acquired a collection of 17th-century, Dutch and Flemish Old Master paintings. The collection was referred to by experts as one of the very best in America.  The paintings were housed in a  gallery (created in the image of Manhattan's famous Frick Gallery) in a wing of Guterman's Bedford Estate.  Artists in Guterman's collection included Rembrandt,  Renoir, Barent Fabritius, Solomon van Ruysdael, Frans Hals, Hendrick Avercamp, Jan Lievens, Govaert Flinck, and Jan van Goyen, to name a few.

1988 tax law reversal 

In 1988, a new tax law eliminated the tax shelter aspect of the co-op conversion model, making them less desirable and resulting in heavy financial setbacks for Guterman and his Companies. Having already taken financial losses in the "Black Monday" stock market crash of 1987,  Guterman placed his Stanhope Hotel (purchased in 1985 for $19,600,000) into Chapter 11 and immediately sold the hotel to Tobishima (a property company from Japan) for over $76,000,000.

Further setbacks were created by a divorce decree that forced Guterman to sell his renowned art collection, considered at the time to be the most valuable such selection of Old Master paintings ever auctioned in New York. While the sale of Guterman's paintings brought "the highest total ever for an Old Master sale in America" and set 11 artist's records for price, to some it was disappointing.

Describing the buying as "very selective", John L. Marion, Sotheby's chairman, said: "On the one hand, it is the highest total ever for an Old Master sale in America and there were 11 artist's records set. On the other hand, you could observe the fact that there was little or no bidding from dealers. I think this means these were not the kind of pictures they buy for stock."

Guterman's active support of some New York politicians, such as Ed Koch and Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin also brought repeated scrutiny from the New York news media. A new law was passed in 1988 that limited private campaign contributions and drew scrutiny to both Donald Trump and Gerald Guterman. While their contributions were discussed at the hearings, the new law did not prohibit their practices that drew so much attention:

For example, the developer Donald Trump told the commission that in 1985 he spread tens of thousands of dollars in contributions to City Council President Andrew J. Stein among 18 subsidiary companies to skirt the state's limits of $50,000 for individual and $5,000 for corporate contributions. Another developer, Gerald Guterman, contributed $100,000 in one month to Mr. Goldin by parceling the gifts among 21 companies.

The Patriot deal drew criticism from congress in a report that called the RTC model for disposing of savings and loan properties in bulk "wasteful" and "uncompetitive." Further, the report criticized the RTC for negotiating with Guterman while he was under investigation, though it was also noted that Guterman had been falsely accused and that all charges had been withdrawn or dismissed.