[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of smoking bans

World Expo, but compliance in restaurants was reportedly poor and enforcement lax. In 2015, Shanghai municipality improved the smoking ban by adding hotels, offices and restaurants. As of March 2017, Shanghai widened its smoking ban by implementing on all public places and adding some outdoor areas

In Guangdong Province, the municipalities of Guangzhou and Jiangmen restricted smoking in public places in 2007, but the law was not effectively enforced.

A new national smoking ban, which extends to all enclosed public areas, came into effect on 1 May 2011.  However enforcement of this is patchy at the best of times, especially outside developed cities like Beijing.

On 1 June 2015, Beijing enacted a new law banning smoking in public spaces such as restaurants and bars, offices, shopping malls, on public transportation and at airports. Those breaking the law will be fined 200 yuan ($32) and will be "named and shamed" on a government website after three times.  Businesses allowing patrons to light up could be fined up to 10,000 yuan ($1,600) and could have their licenses revoked for repeat offences. The new law also cracks down on advertising.
Hong Kong has seen all public smoking restricted from 1 January 2007 under the government's revised Smoking (Public Health) Ordinance (Cap. 371), first enacted in 1982 with several amendments subsequently. The latest amendment enlarges the smoke-free regulations to include indoor workplaces, most public places including restaurants, Internet cafés, public lavatories, beaches and most public parks. Some bars, karaoke parlors, saunas and nightclubs were exempt until 1 July 2009. Smoke-free regulations pertaining to lifts, public transport, cinemas, concert halls, airport terminals and escalators had been phased in between 1982 and 1997. The smoke-free requirements in shopping centres, department stores, supermarkets, banks, game arcades have been in place since July 1998.

An anomaly exists on cross-border trains between Hong Kong and mainland China as they are operated jointly between MTR Corporation and China Railways, of whom the latter allows smoking in the restaurant car and in the vestibules at the end of the cars, but not in the seating area.

Any person who smokes or carries a lighted tobacco product in a statutory no smoking area commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a maximum fine of HK$5,000. Unlike many other jurisdictions, Hong Kong does not place the onus on licensees of liquor licensed premises to enforce smoke-free regulations bans with subsequent loss of licence for non-compliance. A 2009 law provides for fixed-penalty arrangement (HK$1,500) for smoking, on a par with that for littering. At the same time smoking was to be prohibited in designated public transport interchanges, but the government has yet to clarify how it will enforce this against non-Hong Kong ID card-holders and tourists, since the offender has 21 days after the ticket issue to pay up.

The overall daily smoking rate in Hong Kong is 11.8% (HK Department of Census and Statistics Household Thematic Survey 36) with 25% of males smoking whereas in mainland China 63% of males smoke.

Macau

In Macau, smoking is prohibited in a number of places as per Law No. 5/2011.

Colombia

In 2009, Colombia extended its existing tobacco control regulations by requiring all indoor work places and public places be immediately smoke-free; prohibiting tobacco advertising, promotions and sponsorship, and the use of terms such as 'light' and 'mild' on packaging, requiring large, pictorial health warnings on tobacco packaging (covering 30 per cent of the front and back) within a year, preventing the sale of tobacco products to minors; and mandating public education programs on the deadly effects of tobacco use.

Comoros
Comoros has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.

Costa Rica

In 2012, Costa Rica passed one of the strictest smoking regulations in the whole world. This legislation has banned smoking in buses, taxis, trains and their terminals, work places (including parking lots), public buildings, restaurants, bars, casinos, and all enclosed public-access buildings, granting no exceptions (no separate "smoking areas" are permitted). It also bans smoking in outdoor recreational or educational areas such as parks, stadia and university campuses. It introduced a 20 colones tax per cigarette and prohibits any form of tobacco advertising, the use of misleading terms such as "light" or "mild" and the sale of small packages or individual cigarettes. It also prohibits bars and restaurants from selling cigarettes. Violators will be fined a minimum of 180.000 colones (US$355).

Japan