[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Doug Wright Award

The Doug Wright Awards for Canadian Cartooning (established in December 2004) are literary awards handed out annually since 2005 during the Toronto Comic Arts Festival to Canadian cartoonists honouring excellence in comics (including webcomics) and graphic novels published in English (including translated works). The awards are named in honour of Canadian cartoonist Doug Wright. Winners are selected by a jury of Canadians who have made significant contributions to national culture, based on shortlisted selections provided by a nominating committee of five experts in the comics field.  The Wrights are handed out in three main categories, "Best Book", "The Spotlight Award" (affectionately known as "The Nipper"), and, since 2008, the "Pigskin Peters Award" for non-narrative or experimental works. In 2020, the organizers added "The Egghead", an award for best kids’ book for readers under twelve. In addition to the awards, since 2005 the organizers annually induct at least one cartoonist into the Giants of the North: The Canadian Cartoonist Hall Fame.

The Wright Awards are modeled after traditional book prizes, with the intention of drawing attention to the comics medium from a broad range of demographics inside and outside of its traditional fanbase. The Wrights have garnered acclaim as well as earning the support of a diverse range of participating artists and jurors including Scott Thompson, Don McKellar, Bruce McDonald, Jerry Ciccoritti, Bob Rae, Andrew Coyne, Sara Quin, Greg Morrison, Chester Brown, Lorenz Peter, and Nora Young.

Awards

The Best Book and The Spotlight awards are a large wood-and-glass trophies which are engraved with images from Wright's comic strip (the one difference being the images that are etched on the glass). The award was designed by the cartoonist Seth, who admitted to some embarrassment at being the inaugural winner of the trophy he designed. The Pigskin Peters Award, named in honour of a character from Jimmy Frise's Birdseye Center, is a custom, tailored derby hat with its own unique plaque that doubles as a hat post. It was also designed by Seth.

Each recipient of a Doug Wright Award also receives a custom-bound copy of their winning work.

Nominees 

Winners are indicated by ***.

2005

(Jurists: Chester Brown, Rebecca Caldwell, Nora Young, Jerry Ciccoritti and Don McKellar)

Best Book 

 Worn Tuff Elbow #1 by Marc Bell (Fantagraphics Books)
 Pamplemoussi by Geneviève Castrée (L'Oie de Cravan)
 The Frank Ritza Papers by David Collier (Drawn & Quarterly)
 DC: The New Frontier vol. 1 by Darwyn Cooke (DC Comics)
 Clyde Fans, Book One by Seth (D&Q) ***

Best Emerging Talent 

 Rabbithead by Rebecca Dart (Alternative Comics)
 Revolver #1 by Max Douglas / Salgood Sam (self-published)
 Canvas by Alex Fellows (Fantagraphics)
 Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life by Bryan Lee O'Malley (Oni Press) ***

2006

(Jurists: Justin Peroff, Alan Hunt and Ben Portis)

Best Book 

 Pyongyang: A Journey in North Korea by Guy Delisle (D&Q)
 Scott Pilgrim Versus the World by Bryan Lee O’Malley (Oni)
 Dragonslippers: This Is What an Abusive Relationship Looks Like by Rosalind B. Penfold (Grove Press)
 Paul Moves Out by Michel Rabagliati (D&Q) ***
 Wimbledon Green by Seth (D&Q)

Best Emerging Talent 

 Northwest Passage Vol. 1 by Scott Chantler (Oni)
 The Unexpurgated Tale of Lordie Jones by Marc Ngui (Conundrum Press)
 Dark Adaptation by Lorenz Peter ***
 Skim by Mariko Tamaki and Jillian Tamaki
 Nil: A Land Beyond Belief by James Turner (Slave Labor Graphics)

2007

(Jurists: Bruce McDonald, Mark Kingwell, Judy MacDonald, Lorenz Peter and Jessica Johnson)

Best Book 

 Shenzhen: A Travelogue From China by Guy Delisle (D&Q)
 This Will All End in Tears by Joe Ollmann (Insomniac Press) ***
 Scott Pilgrim & The Infinite Sadness by Bryan Lee O'Malley (Oni)
 Gilded Lilies by Jillian Tamaki (Conundrum Press)
 Nog-a-dod edited by Marc Bell (Conundrum Press)

Best Emerging Talent 

 Gray Horses by Hope Larson (Oni)
 House of Sugar by Rebecca Kraatz (Tulip Tree Press) ***
 Was She Pretty? by Leanne Shapton (Farrar, Straus & Giroux)
 Bacter-area by Keith Jones (D&Q)
 Mendacity by Tamara Berger & Sophie Cossette (Kiss Machine)

2008

(Jurists: Katrina Onstad, Ho Che Anderson, Marc Glassman, Mariko Tamaki and Helena Rickett)

Best Book 

 365 Days: A Diary by Julie Doucet (D&Q)
 Spent by Joe Matt (D&Q)
 The Magical Life of Long Tack Sam by Ann Marie Fleming (Riverhead Books) ***
 Southern Cross by Laurence Hyde (D&Q)

Best Emerging Talent 

 Essex County Vol. 1: Tales from the Farm and Vol. 2: Ghost Stories by Jeff Lemire (Top Shelf Productions) ***
 Pope Hats by Ethan Rilly
 Kieffer #1 by Jason Kieffer
 The Experiment by Nick Maandag

2008 saw the introduction of a new category dedicated to works that fall outside the bounds of traditional storytelling. Named after a character in the classic Canadian comic strip Birdseye Center, the Pigskin Peters Award recognizes experimental and avant-garde comics.