[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Athol Murray College of Notre Dame

Gord Kluzak
 Slater Koekkoek
 Vincent Lecavalier
 Gary Leeman
 Ella Matteucci
 Stefan Meyer
 Willie Mitchell
 Tyler Myers
 Scott Pellerin
 Teddy Purcell
 Brad Richards
 Morgan Rielly
 Paul Sample
 Jaden Schwartz
 Mandi Schwartz
 Logan Stephenson
 Todd Strueby
 Barry Trotz
 Taylor Woods

Other sports

 Scott Franklin, a rugby union player
 Wayne Shaw, a Canadian football player

Music

The Prayer and Victory March

"Dear Notre Dame,
We hail the Alma Mater.
Thy loyal sons,
Thy banners proudly bear.
We pledge to thee,
Our love and our devotion,
We beg thee hear and grant our prayers.
Oh guide our steps,
And lead us safely onward,
Through all the years,
With love and care.

What though the odds be great or small,
Old Notre Dame will win over all,
While her loyal sons are marching,
Onward to victory,
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame,
Wake up the echoes cheering her name,
Send a volley, cheer on high,
Shake down the thunder from the sky!
What though the odds be great or small,
Old Notre Dame will win over all,
While her loyal sons are marching
Onward to victory,
Notre Dame!"

Hazing controversy 
On December 22, 2021, TSN broke a story about a Notre Dame student who claimed to have been the victim of "a series of vicious sexual, physical and psychological assaults during his time at Notre Dame" in 1986 and has been unable to get an apology for what happened to him since 1999. The hazing incidents included him being forced by other students to eat Kraft Dinner that had been cooked in human urine, to play a tug-of-war-like game wherein his genitalia were attached to those of another student and stretched, and to massage the buttocks of senior students. The student allegedly visited the school nurse at least twice each week because of the beatings, but the nurse never informed his parents of the incidents. A dorm supervisor who witnessed an alleged incident where students whipped the victim with wet towels while he was forced into a jetliner position allegedly ignored the incident. The student fled the school but was forced back inside. The next day, his mother arrived at the school to take him home, and the dorm supervisor informed him that he was being expelled for having left the school without permission, and that the alleged abuse was being investigated. The alumnus filed a negligence lawsuit against the school in 2018, which is ongoing. Notre Dame has not yet apologized for the hazing—which has resulted in mental health challenges and suicide attempts by the victim—and claims that the student's records went missing.

References

Père Murray and the Hounds, the story of Saskatchewan's Notre Dame College, by Jack Gorman, 
Père - A Père Murray Compendium, compiled by Jack Gorman 
Legacy . . . the treasures of Notre Dame, by Jack Gorman
The Hounds of Notre Dame - a movie based on the compelling story of Père Murray and the Hounds
Tales from the Shacks : Pere Murray's Notre Dame College, by Richard Dukes 
Notre Dame of the Prairies, by Alice (Stefan) Henderson 
The Rink: Stories from Hockey's Home Towns, by Chris Cuthbert and Scott Russell

External links
 
 TABS Association of Boarding Schools Athol Murray College of Notre Dame Profile

Boarding schools in Saskatchewan
High schools in Saskatchewan
Catholic secondary schools in Saskatchewan
Catholic boarding schools
Educational institutions established in 1920
1920 establishments in Saskatchewan