[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# African Union of Railways

Loading gauge 
Loading gauges vary considerably, and through trains would be forced to use the most restrictive loading gauge along its route. The structure gauge of tunnels and bridges needs to be about  taller to allow for piggy back operation of trains of one gauge on the wagons of another gauge.

The loading gauge width for new standard gauge railways in Ethiopia and Kenya is following the  standard for high speed lines pioneered by Shinkansen in Japan, and followed by South Korea and China.  May also be followed by Tanzania and Nigeria.

Platform and carriage floor heights should be standardised, as well as the gap between platform and carriage.

Axle loads 
Axle loads vary considerably, depending on the strength of the track, especially the weight of the rails which are generally too light for modern traffic.  A reasonable minimum rail weight is , though  or  would be preferred for heavy duty use.

The Kribi-Mbalam iron ore railway has an axleload of 37.5T.

Train lengths and crossing loop lengths 
Crossing loops should be as long as the longest likely train, considered globally.  Some UIC standards are . Extra length of the loop enables the rear of the train to clear the main line at more than line speed thus saving time.

Because of dangers imposed by wild animals such as lions, manual control of loops turnouts is not necessarily a good idea, and some degree of automation of these turnouts, and fencing, is desirable.

Minimum radius 
Limits speeds, although speeds are less important on minor branch lines. Minimum radius also affects heaviest trains, due to tendency to pull wagons off the rails and derail them.

Language 
Confusion and even accidents can occur if more than one language (or accent) is used to operate a railway.  A simplified language such as seaspeak would be useful to reduce such problems.
 Pécrot rail crash with confusion of Dutch and French speakers.
 Complicated phrases can be simplified and made succinct by using say telegraphic codes.
 Great Western Railway telegraphic codes
 Australian railway telegraphic codes
 Railway block code
 Commercial code
 Words can be spelled out over noisy lines using say the NATO phonetic alphabet.
 Names of stations should be distinguishable from one another. Similarly the Post Office doesn't like towns spoken or written alike.
 Thus the village of Perth in New South Wales was getting mail intended for Perth, Scotland and Perth, Western Australia, so it was renamed Perthville.
 Thus Makutopora and Makutupora are two distinct localities.

Namibia 
As of 2007, Namibian railways built nearly  of a line with Angola.  Namibia has been using Tubular Modular Track.  Tubular Modular Track maintains its track resilience even in harshest sandy desert conditions. Transnet Freight Rail in South Africa uses Tubular Modular Track in the main Ermelo yard on its 70 million tonnes per annum heavy haul coal export line. The continuous support provided by Tubular Modular Track increases rails and turnout life by a factor of two and weld life by a factor of ten (compared to conventional and slabtrack offering discrete support for rails). The Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) uses Tubular Modular Track in stations to ensure fixed vertical alignment between platforms and trains.

Nigeria 
Plans by Nigeria's to change convert its  gauge lines to  have accelerated in 2020.  Some new lines are double track replacing single track sections.

Libya 
Libya started in 2007 building a completely new  railway system, albeit slowly.  A link across the Sahara to Central Africa, probably Nigeria, would also spur the growth of  connections, which make use of continuous access to the Middle East, Europe, and even China in the foreseeable future. In March 2011, the works ground to a halt because of the revolution with no news when or even if they would resume.

Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda 
Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda are odd men in the  South & East zone as they use  gauge.

The latest plans for a greatly expanded railway with links to adjoining countries are to build new lines in standard gauge and possibly upgrade and convert existing metre gauge lines to the same wider gauge.

Zambia 
  Mchinji - connects to Malawi Railways
  Chipata () - railhead - opened 2010

Iron ore railways 
Heavy duty iron ore railways in Africa carry much more traffic than ordinary railways so they almost always adopt standard gauge to make use of proven off the shelf technology.  New such lines are planned for Cameroon, Senegal and Guinea.  Gabon is already using .  The Transguinean Railways is proposed to be standard gauge.  Some standard gauge lines in Liberia are to be restored.  An isolated  gauge line in Sierra Leone is to be converted to standard gauge.

High Speed Lines 

High Speed Lines (AIHSRN)

Conferences 

  - a conference held in Brazzaville on 10–14 April 2006.
 35th General Assembly
 2006

Timeline