[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 35]
# List of Shaman King characters

Hao.

 
 An archangel commanded by Chris, the spirit of a Hummer H1 that Venstar drove during the Gulf War and is kept in a rocket artillery launcher. An archangel stronger than Michael, it wields a shield and morning star and possesses an incredible destructive power befitting its tough structure.

 
 An archangel commanded by Cebin, the spirit of a 300SL Coupe contained in specially built guns resembling human forearms. Known as the messenger charged with guiding souls to Heaven and delivering divine visions, it has the power of thunder. The angel is lightweight and attacks by emitting electrical charges from Cebin's hands. Because of Cebin's calm demeanor, neither of them loses their cool in battle and Remiel's outstanding speed and strength allow the creation of a stable Over Soul.

 
 The first archangel to be created, commanded by Luchist Lasso and regarded as a fallen angel. It is the spirit of a Lamborghini Countach LP400, a car with great value to Luchist and known for its speed and power. It is contained in a Comp Hunter revolver.

 
 Another fallen angel commanded by Hans Reiheit. It is the spirits of tanks from World War II and is contained a Steyr AUG. The spirit is regarded as highly dangerous because its Reiyoku level at 470 000 is higher than that of the Spirit of Fire's Reiyoku of 300 000. However, Reiheit's lower furyoku level means that he cannot materialize the spirit for more than three seconds and suffers a considerable backlash if his Over Soul is broken.

Buddhas
The Guardian ghosts of the Gandhara. Unlike the X-Laws' Archangels, the Gandhara spirits are genuinely divine, deriving from the Buddha. All of them are stronger than the Spirit of Fire.

  The Buddha commanded by Lady Sati, nicknamed .  He became Sati's partner after he emerged from the statue of a thousand armed kannon to save a young Sati from land sharks at the Saigan Temple.  He affectionately calls Sati "Sacchan".  One of the largest Buddhist gods among the Gandhara, he primarily uses his mighty palms in combat and his Reiryoku is 700,000.  His appearance in his spirit form, along with his background and relationship to Sati, is a reference to Senju from Takei's earlier work, Butsu Zone.

 
 The Buddha commanded by Daiei. Its Reiryoku is 650,000.  His spirit form resembles the character Jizo from Takei's work, Butsu Zone.

 
 The Buddha commanded by Komeri. Its Reiryoku is 650,000.  Similar to other members of Gandhara, he resembles the character Batoh from Takei's work, Butsu Zone.

 
 The Buddha commanded by Jackson. Its Reiryoku is 400,000 and uses a vajra as its medium.  According to Pascal Avaf, the spirit rules over the Three Passions of Buddhism: wrath, greed, and sloth.  Acala wields a personal sword known as Bankoken that will place a person into a deep sleep from which they cannot easily wake from when the person is cut. The spirit also holds a chain that will hunt down any spirit, regardless of its speed. In its Over Soul form, Acala resembles the character "Fudou" in Takei's work, Butsu Zone.

 
 The Buddha commanded by Yainage, possessing a Reiyoku of 400 000.  Its primary abilities involve palm strikes that nullify any furyoku based attack and defense and follows the movement of Yainage as he wields a vajra used as the spirit's medium.

 
 The Buddha commanded by Cado. Its Reiryoku is 400,000. In Over Soul form, the spirit is armed with a bow and arrows, relying on its six arms to fire multiple shots or rapidly strike with its many palms. Arrows fired by Ragaraja will follow and strike down any spirit, regardless of speed. The spirit's medium is Cado's cell phone.

 
 The Buddha commanded by Mami and Sami, its Reiryoku is 400,000.  As one of the Eight Deva Guardians of Buddhism, the Over Soul he forms with Mamy as a medium allows them to wield the other seven Devas as weapons, which provides them with a wide arsenal of techniques in combat.  However, his evil passion is described as being incredibly strong, making it difficult to form an Over Soul with him.  He is based on Senju's rival in Takei's work Butsu Zone.

 
 The Buddhas commanded by Ozam, known individually as  and , the two wrath-filled muscular guardians of the Buddha.  Each has a Reiyoku of 25,000.

 
 The Buddha commanded by Seikyou. Its Reiryoku is 400,000 and uses a mirror as its medium.

 
 The Buddha commanded by Aeon Li. Its Reiryoku is 400,000.  Its medium is Aeon's necktie.