[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dyab Abou Jahjah

g means to an end. Sharia would be instated after a democratic process. Indeed, his messages are altogether mixed  Jahjah suggested in a televised debate that a similar attack was likely in the Netherlands. "It's logical," he said. "You make war with us, we make war with you."

Controversies

Arrest

Abou Jahjah was arrested and detained for several days in 2002 after he allegedly organized riots and called for violence. The riots broke out in Borgerhout, a district of Antwerp, after a 27-year-old Belgian-Moroccan was shot by his Flemish neighbor. He was acquitted from all charges on October 21, 2008. A police officer who was watching him the night of the riots said that Abou Jahjah is innocent and that the evidence against him was fabricated. His arrest sparked sharp debates and dominated Belgian politics for months. He gained a lot of support among Belgian intellectuals and academics and was considered as a political prisoner. 300 personalities signed a petition demanding a more moderate approach by the government in dealing with the AEL and the issue of immigration and discrimination in the country. The case became a famous example of demonization of political activists and violation of the separation of powers. The Abou Jahjah affaire is still taught as a case study in some law schools in Belgium and the Netherlands.

Theo van Gogh

In the Netherlands, Abou Jahjah had a row with the late film director Theo van Gogh, who was known for his opposition to Islam. After van Gogh, who was supposed to be the moderator of a debate between him and Boris Dittrich, insulted Abou Jahjah by calling him "de pooier van de profeet" ("the prophet's pimp") in front of an audience of 1000 people, Abou Jahjah stormed out of the theater, with his bodyguards in tow and refused to continue considering that a moderator should be neutral and not insult the guests. His opponent that day Boris Dietrich declared his sympathy to his position and his dismay at the behavior of Van Gogh.

2006 Israel-Lebanon war

In July 2006 he announced that he would be going to Lebanon to help in whatever way he can defending his country against the attack by Israeli forces. In response, Vlaams Belang leader Filip Dewinter called on the Belgian government to revoke Abou Jahjah's citizenship.

He wrote a book on the Israel-Lebanon war called "Diary Brussels Beirut".

Return to Lebanon
Since 2007 Abou Jahjah left Belgium and resettled in Lebanon and focused on his management career as a CEO of a small BPO company, Jana SARL in Saida. He later confirmed in 2009 on his Facebook wall that he was "glad to be out of that shit-hole now".

It was also in 2009 that he called on Facebook and in Arab language on his blog: "la valise ou le cercueil" and "And resist the occupier and colonizer constantly and without hesitation, and by all means necessary and available, and the most important thing, the armed struggle – until his expulsion from our land for good and unconditionally."

He continued visiting Europe regularly to speak at meetings and media shows. The VRT, the Belgian-Flemish state television, was even accused of sympathising with him and promoting him after it became known that the TV station paid his airplane ticket and hotel costs to attend the Belgian talk show Phara.  He is considered an authority on issues of immigration, and the Arab world. After the Arab spring, that Abou Jahjah supports adamantly, he gained intellectual credit in the West as someone who has always defended the opinion that revolution is inevitable in the Arab world. In 2008 a group of Flemish students videotaped an interview with him in which he was speaking in details about revolution in Egypt and elsewhere and expected it to happen within 5 years. Parts of the video were later shown on Belgian Television.  Three young students from Arab origin in Belgium wrote that Abou Jahjah and his AEL were a chance to build a better understanding between communities, and that chance was missed. Many argue today that it would have been much easier and more productive to dialogue with a person  like Abou Jahjah instead of the religious groups that appeared after he left Europe. This opinion has been outed by many people including former rivals, like former prime minister Verhofstadt, the man who decreed his arrest.