[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Dan Cronin

Philip. He also sponsored a bill attempting to reverse the Illinois Supreme Court's decision in the Baby Richard case and keep children with their adoptive parents. The following year, he sponsored a bill that authorized winners of the Illinois Lottery to receive their winnings as lump-sum payments.

Cronin served as chair of the Senate's education committee and was regarded as a leading voice for Senate Republicans on education issues. In 1995, he sponsored a bill that gave the mayor of Chicago more control over the management of Chicago Public Schools (CPS). The following year, he backed a measure that would have required pay raises for teachers to be based on merit rather than seniority. In 1997, Cronin worked with several legislators to overhaul funding for public schools in Illinois, and supported Edgar's proposal to switch the burden from property taxes to income taxes. In 1998, he supported a proposal to provide direct financial relief to Catholic schools run by the Archdiocese of Chicago, amidst a broader push towards tax credits for private school tuition. In 1999, Cronin sponsored a bill that would have removed the power of Local School Councils to fire principals without the approval of central administration, but postponed further action on the bill after it became controversial. In 2002, he opposed an agreement between CPS and the Chicago Teachers Union that restored some of the bargaining rights that had been restricted under the 1995 law. In 2004, he opposed a deal in which Governor Rod Blagojevich earmarked $20 million towards the Gwendolyn Brooks College Preparatory Academy, a project backed by Senate President Emil Jones, in exchange for giving the governor more power over the Illinois State Board of Education. In 2007, Cronin proposed a bill that would have reviewed the role and authority of Local School Councils, but the legislation did not move forward.

In 2000, Cronin sponsored legislation that would have restricted Medicaid funding for abortions. The bill was vetoed by Governor George Ryan, a Republican who had long opposed abortion rights, prompting condemnation by Cronin and other social conservatives. In 2002, he sponsored a bill requiring the Illinois Department of Transportation to consult local communities and environmental groups on projects affecting highways.

Cronin sponsored a constitutional amendment to allow voters to recall elected officials, but the proposal was blocked by Senate Democrats. In 2008, he voted in favor of a pension reform bill that required the Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) to increase its pension contributions. In 2010, he co-sponsored legislation with Representative Randy Ramey that would reform DuPage County's water commission, an independent entity, by bringing it under the county's direct control. The proposal came after it was revealed that the commission had misspent around $69 million in reserve funds, with the financial administrator spending down some of those reserve funds without informing the water commission. A forensic audit revealed that missteps by the commission, the financial administrator, and the general manager caused several accounting errors that nearly depleted the reserves. The city council of Naperville joined the DuPage Mayors and Managers Conference in opposing the legislation, citing fears that the county would be taking control over municipal amenities.

Cronin stepped down from the Senate on November 30, 2010, after being elected to the county board. He was replaced by Ron Sandack.

DuPage County board chairman

Campaign 
Cronin ran for chairman of the DuPage County Board during the 2010 elections. He announced his candidacy at a Westin hotel in Lombard; over 300 supporters attended the event. In the Republican primary, he faced Senator Carole Pankau, Burr Ridge Mayor Gary Grasso, and county board member Debra Olson. All four candidates touted their experience in government. Grasso differentiated himself from his opponents as the only candidate to have experience as an executive of a government. Pankau stated that she would be a full-time board chairman, unlike her opponents who have other jobs or business interests. Cronin won the primary, and faced Democratic candidate Carole Cheney, an attorney from Aurora. By then, countywide elections would depend more on support from independent voters. Cheney ran a positive campaign, though she labeled Cronin as a "career politician".