[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Regina B. Schofield

Safe Childhood, the President's DNA Initiative, the Prisoner Reentry Initiative, and Helping America's Youth.
She announced her resignation on September 13, 2007—just one day prior to the release of an internal DOJ audit revealing extravagant travel and banquet expenses—effective September 28, 2007.

An internal Justice Department audit, released one day after her resignation, on September 14, 2007, revealed that the department had sent employees to 10 conferences over the last two years, with unusually high expenses, including $4.04 per serving of Swedish meatballs at a dinner. Six of the 10 conferences were approved by Schofield's department. It is not known whether her departure from the Department is related to this investigation. The department spent more than $13,000 on cookies and brownies for 1,542 attendees of a four-day conference in 2005. A networking session that offered butterfly shrimp, coconut lobster skewers and Swedish meatballs for a Community Oriented Policing Services conference in July 2006 cost more than $60,000. (source: http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,296838,00.html)

Speculation exists regarding a link between Schofield's departure date and the report release date one day later. In the aftermath of her departure, she was described as "someone who 'takes care of herself' and is 'perfectly coiffed.'" She was also tight.(source: http://abovethelaw.com/2007/09/musical-chairs-crickets-chirping-at-the-doj/)

Exposed Problems Within OJJDP

During a compressed grant making season in early 2007, many erroneous assumptions have been made, including the belief that Schofield provided information "that J. Robert Flores, administrator of the U.S. Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP), 'misrepresented the rating scores' of bidders for the National Juvenile Justice Programs last year, hiding the fact that most of his choices received lower scores than many of the proposals that he rejected.".

Flores was eventually investigated by the Inspector General, testified before the Oversight Committee and Government Reform, and then left OJJDP in 2009.

In regards to the matter, Chief of Staff at OJJDP, Michele DeKonty refused to speak with investigators from the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform by asserting her Fifth Amendment privilege. DeKonty was then fired June 24, 2008.

References

1962 births
Living people
United States Assistant Attorneys General
Jackson State University alumni
People from Franklin County, Mississippi
People from Natchez, Mississippi