[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# PISCES

ES). In cooperation with Bosnia's Council of Ministers, the US government aims to install and maintain all the hardware and software required for the PISCES system to operate - starting with the International airport Sarajevo and later expanding to other airports and border crossings in the country.

Expected future deployment 
 Algeria. In FY 2007, NADR/Terrorism Interdiction Program (TIP) assistance is requested to implement new program operations and equipment that Algeria will use in support of the ongoing Global War on Terrorism.
 Morocco. In FY 2007, NADR/Terrorism Interdiction Program (TIP) assistance is requested to implement new program operations and equipment that Morocco will use in support of the ongoing Global War on Terrorism.
 Tunisia. NADR/Terrorist Interdiction Program (TIP) funds are requested to launch program operations and provide necessary equipment.
 Yemen. NADR/Terrorism Interdiction Program (TIP) assistance is requested to implement new and increased program operations and provide equipment that Yemen will use in support of the ongoing Global War on Terrorism.
 Afghanistan PISCES Program started in Afghanistan on 2002 from Kabul International Airport and successfully expanded into 12 other POEs.
 Kenya Since mid-2003, the Terrorist Interdiction Program computer system has been operational at select airports; scheduled for NADR-TIP funding in FY 2007
 Tanzania Since mid-2003, the Terrorist Interdiction Program computer system has been operational at select airports; scheduled for NADR-TIP funding in FY 2007
 Ethiopia Since mid-2003, the Terrorist Interdiction Program computer system has been operational at select airports; scheduled for NADR-TIP funding in FY 2007

Former deployment 
 Azerbaijan: Part of Canadian Bank Note Company ID card and passport-issuing and inspection system in Azerbaijan was a border control system that replaced the State Departments's Pisces system in Azerbaijan. No TIP-funding FY 2007.
 Nicaragua In 2003, post began the deployment of a new immigration computer system called PISCES. The contractor made the original equipment installations, but was unable to follow through with making the system operational due to the greater demand to bring the system on line in the Middle East. PISCES should be operational in 2005. The contractor will provide training to Nicaraguan Immigration personnel. No TIP-funding FY 2007

Unclear 
 Ghana, Senegal, Zambia and Georgia were scheduled for NADR-TIP funding in FY 2007.
 Djibouti is expected to be operational this year (2004); scheduled for NADR-TIP funding in FY 2007
 Uganda  is expected to be operational this year (2004); scheduled for NADR-TIP funding in FY 2007

See also
 Booz Allen Hamilton

References 

United States Department of State
Databases
Counterterrorism in the United States