[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Richmond Hill Inn

. The US trustees motion to convert the case to a chapter 7 and/or appoint a chapter 11 trustee was denied in a hearing 20 January 2010  Thus The Hammocks LLC doing business as the Richmond Hill Inn shall remain as debtor in possession in till such time as there is a discharge from bankruptcy court.

It appears that the managing partners plan to shut down the Richmond Hill Inn soon under a chapter 11 "liquidation plan" and sell the real estate to satisfy the mortgage owed 
The bankruptcy court for the western district of North Carolina has objected to this plan as it is not transparent. It does not disclose partner compensation. It does not disclose timing of this "liquidation"
It is noted it does not appear that employees or future guests have been notified of this plan. The Richmond hill Inn has closed for the winter but appears to be still taking reservations for April 2010. It is not known if Richmond hill inn is collecting deposits on wedding reservations. As of late February 2010 the Richmond Hill Inn website is reporting that it will not reopen in April 2010, due to arson by former employees.

Controversy over media coverage of William Gilman Gray managing partner of Hammock LLC d/b/a Richmond Hill Inn
Local paper Asheville Citizen-Times ran an article on Richmond Hill Inn managing partner William G Gray on his past criminal arrest record for allegedly molesting boys in several states over the last three decades and surrendering his license to practice medicine in lieu of a hearing or after a hearing in many states. The article generated intense controversy in the community as to its content.
There appear to be federal government documents that support the controversy in regard to William G Gray losing his DEA license to proscribe controlled substances for "his prescribing or dispensing various controlled substances to several individuals, two of whom were minors, without a legitimate medical purpose and outside the scope of professional practice"

and there appear to be state of California, North Carolina and state of Virginia documents in regard to alleged criminal behavior in regard to minors  And a Revocation of license to practice for a "mental abnormality" in regard to behavior towards his male minor patients 
It is a public policy question to note that William Gilmans Gray's 1977 surrender of his California license to practice medicine still does not appear on the California's medical board website.

The ownership management team at the Richmond Hill Inn did release a statement prepared by the public relations firm of Dan Kellerby Media of Nashville, TN. It tells of the hardships in the hotel industry in the last years of the economic crises and alleged forced cutbacks on staff and the ownership structure's family and emotional attachment to the community.
 
This is an example of a case study of multi-media tourism marketing before the fire

Continued Operation After Fire
The Richmond Hill Inn re-opened after the 2009 fire and continued to operate under chapter 11 bankruptcy protection , even though the mansion was destroyed and Gabrielle's Restaurant was destroyed due to the arson.  In August 2011, Oshun Mountain Sanctuary (OM Sanctuary) purchased the Richmond Hill Inn to transform the property into a holistic education retreat center.
It appears that this non profit has a website here http://www.omsanctuary.org/
the non profit's mission https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n74W8aYVxY0