[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 47]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

youth, that I
value a thousand times beyond my own. But it is now fit that my generous
patron should be informed of the whole truth. Know, then, that when the
unfortunate Hamet was taken by your galleys, his aged father shared his
captivity--it was his fate which so often made me shed those tears which
first attracted the notice of your son; and when your unexampled bounty
had set me free, I flew to find the Christian who had purchased him. I
represented to him that I was young and vigorous, while he was aged and
infirm; I added, too, the gold which I had received from your bounty; in
a word, I prevailed upon the Christian to send back my father in that
ship which was intended for me, without acquainting him with the means
of his freedom; since that time I have staid here to discharge the debt
of nature and gratitude, a willing slave----'"

At this part of the story, Harry, who had with difficulty restrained
himself before, burst into such a fit of crying, and Tommy himself was
so much affected, that Mr Barlow told them they had better leave off for
the present and go to some other employment. They therefore went into
the garden to resume the labour of their house, but found, to their
unspeakable regret, that during their absence an accident had happened
which had entirely destroyed all their labours; a violent storm of wind
and rain had risen that morning, which, blowing full against the walls
of the newly-constructed house, had levelled it with the ground. Tommy
could scarcely refrain from crying when he saw the ruins lying around;
but Harry, who bore the loss with more composure, told him not to mind
it, for it could easily be repaired, and they would build it stronger
the next time.

Harry then went up to the spot, and after examining it some time, told
Tommy that he believed he had found out the reason of their misfortune.
"What is it?" said Tommy. "Why," said Harry, "it is only because we did
not drive these stakes, which are to bear the whole weight of our house,
far enough into the ground; and, therefore, when the wind blew against
the flat side of it with so much violence, it could not resist. And now
I remember to have seen the workman, when they begin a building, dig a
considerable way into the ground to lay the foundation fast; and I
should think that, if we drove these stakes a great way into the ground,
it would produce the same effect, and we should have nothing to fear
from any future storms."

Mr Barlow then came into the garden, and the two boys showed him their
misfortune, and asked him whether he did not think that driving the
stakes further in would prevent such an accident for the future. Mr
Barlow told them he thought it would; and that, as they were too short
to reach to the top of the stakes, he would assist them. He then went
and brought a wooden mallet, with which he struck the tops of the
stakes, and drove them so fast into the ground that there was no longer
any danger of their being shaken by the weather. Harry and Tommy then
applied themselves with so much assiduity to their work that they in a
very short time had repaired all the damage, and advanced it as far as
it had been before.

The next thing that was necessary to be done, was putting on a roof, for
hitherto they had constructed nothing but the walls. For this purpose
they took several long poles, which they had laid across their building
where it was most narrow, and upon these they placed straw in
considerable quantities, so that they now imagined they had constructed
a house that would completely screen them from the weather. But in this,
unfortunately, they were again mistaken; for a very violent shower of
rain coming just as they had finished their building, they took shelter
under it, and remarked for some time, with infinite pleasure, how dry
and comfortable it kept them; but at last the straw that covered it
being completely soaked through, and the water having no vent to run
off, by reason of the flatness of the roof, the rain began to penetrate
in considerable quantities.

For some time Harry and Tommy bore the inconvenience, but it increased
so much that they were soon obliged to leave it and seek for shelter in
the house. When they were thus secured, they began again to consider the
affair of the house, and Tommy said that it surely must be because they
had not put straw enough upon it. "No," said Harry, "I think that cannot
be the reason; I rather imagine that it must be owing to our roof lying
so flat; for I have observed that all houses that I have ever seen have
their roofs in a shelving posture, by which means the wet continually
runs off from them and falls to the ground; whereas ours, being quite
flat, detained almost all the rain that fell upon it, which must
necessarily soak deeper and deeper into the straw, till it penetrated
quite through."

They therefore agreed to remedy this defect; and for this purpose they
took se