[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George O'Malley

is ineligible to transfer after failing the intern exams. O'Malley decides to repeat his intern year, and confesses to Torres that he slept with Stevens, leading the two to separate. O'Malley and Stevens embark on a short-lived relationship, only to discover there is no real chemistry between them.

O'Malley moves in with new intern Lexie Grey (Chyler Leigh), Meredith's half-sister. Lexie and O'Malley discover that he failed his exam by only a single point, leading him to confront Richard Webber (James Pickens Jr.), the chief of surgery, to ask for a chance to retake the exam. He passes the second attempt, and begins to distance himself from Lexie, who has fallen in love with him. O'Malley supports Stevens when she discovers she has melanoma, and walks her down the aisle as she marries Karev. O'Malley begins to display a talent for trauma surgery, and is told by the chief of trauma surgery Owen Hunt (Kevin McKidd) that it is definitely his specialty. He then abruptly and inexplicably decides to join the U.S. Army in Iraq. While his friends at the hospital prepare an intervention to convince O'Malley to stay, they all work on a severely disfigured John Doe, brought in after a horrible bus accident, in which he pushed a woman out of the way and saved her life. John Doe writes on Meredith's hand "007" and she realizes it is actually George. She runs to tell the other surgeons and they rush him to surgery. However, he flatlines and is ultimately declared braindead. There is confusion on if John Doe is really George and Callie confirms by a freckle on his hand. His organs are donated after Stevens confirms that it is what O'Malley would have wanted, and he is buried a week later.

Development

Casting and creation

T. R. Knight signed on for the pilot as O'Malley, expecting that the role might be short-lived, because he liked that the character was multi-faceted. In October 2006, news reports surfaced that Washington had insulted Knight with a homophobic slur, during an argument with Patrick Dempsey. Shortly after, the details of the argument became public, and Knight later disclosed that the slur made him come out as gay. "I was under no delusions," Knight said at the time. "My friends on the set knew. We talked about it. Publicly it's not my thing to call up People magazine and be like, 'Hey, you want to know something about me?'...I could've just let it slide and not said anything, but it became important. It became important to make the statement." The situation seemed somewhat resolved when Washington issued a statement, apologizing for his "unfortunate use of words during the recent incident on-set". 

At the 64th Golden Globe Awards, while being interviewed on the red carpet, Washington joked, "I love gay. I wanted to be gay. Please let me be gay." Later, Washington claimed he never used the slur, labeling it "vile". In June 2007, it was reported that the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) and Shonda Rhimes had chosen not to renew Washington's contract with the show, not immediately specifying a reason. In a subsequent interview, Washington claimed that "they fired the wrong guy" (referring to Knight), and said he was considering filing a lawsuit as a result. He accused Knight of using the controversy to bolster his own career and increase his salary on Grey's Anatomy.

On July 2, 2007, Washington appeared on Larry King Live, to present his side of the controversy. According to Washington, he never used the "F-Word" in reference to Knight, but rather blurted it out in an unrelated context in the course of an argument "provoked" by Dempsey, who he felt was treating him like a "B-word", a "P-word", and the "F-word", which Washington said conveyed "somebody who is being weak and afraid to fight back". In 2009, Rhimes told Entertainment Weekly that she may not have handled the incident correctly, stating: "I wasn't interested in what anybody thought publicly. I was interested in what was going on right here on the ground...with the people I work with every day. Did I do it perfectly? Of course not. This is my first television show. It was a learning experience." Knight said that Rhimes was among those for discouraging him to come out, however Rhimes said: "I remember saying [to fellow executive producer], 'This is our proudest day here. T. R. got to come out and I got to say to him that it wouldn't affect his character' because he was concerned he was going to come out and George would suddenly be gay. The idea that a gay actor can't play a straight man is insulting."