[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Star Wars: Visionaries

Star Wars: Visionaries is a 2005 collection of 11 stories written and drawn by concept artists who worked on the film Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith. The book is published by Dark Horse Comics and edited by Jeremy Barlow.

Contents

Old Wounds
Story and Art: Aaron McBride
13 pages
Galactic Year: 16 BBY
Preceded by: The Value of Proper Intelligence to Any Successful Military Campaign is Not to be Underestimated
Followed by: The Destroyer

The opening story, "Old Wounds" by Aaron McBride, is set in "the third year Imperial Occupation" and begins with Owen Lars trying to teach new words to a toddler-age Luke Skywalker. They see a strange figure on the horizon running towards the Lars homestead, and Owen instructs his wife Beru to bring him his rifle and take the boy inside. The figure dodges warning shots with ease and uses the Force to disarm Owen before smashing the weapon over his head. Standing on triple-jointed droid legs and concealed by a dark hood, the figure calls out through the Force to an unseen enemy. The voice claims to have been tracking this adversary for years, just missing him by two days on Kamino, one day on Geonosis, and only a few minutes on Mustafar. He had then killed witnesses on Polis Massa before finally gaining crucial information on Mos Espa from an aged Watto, whom he beheaded for his greed. The creature declares that he knows threatening Luke would bring his adversary out into the open, to which the hidden voice finally asks through the Force, "Does Palpatine know?" The cyborg-legged monster replies, "No. There is no Palpatine. No Empire. No Jedi. There is no Light. No Dark... Just you and I here now." At this point, Obi-Wan Kenobi bursts out from the sand. The dark figure casts off his hood and reveals himself to be Darth Maul, his severed lower body replaced by a pair of large cybernetic legs and abdomen, and his cranial horns having grown, crown-like, to over three times their original length. Kenobi and Maul engage in furious combat, in which Maul loses a further arm and four horns before being held at Kenobi's mercy. With his lightsaber hilt to Maul's forehead and his finger on the blade-ignition button, Kenobi hesitates to execute his helpless opponent, but has the decision taken out of his hands when the revived Owen blows the former Sith's head apart with his damaged rifle. As Kenobi prepares to leave and bury Maul's corpse, Owen asks to permanently stay away from their farm, fearing that his presence will attract other potential enemies. Kenobi agrees, but, as he leaves, he tells Luke through the Force that he will always be watching over him.

The plot of Maul returning with cybernetic legs shared similarities with his canonical return in the CGI-animated The Clone Wars television series. The Old Wounds storyline would be adapted in the episode "Twin Suns" of the Star Wars Rebels animated series, where Maul tracks down Obi-Wan Kenobi to Tatooine and engages him in a final lightsaber duel, resulting in the former Sith Lord's death.

The Artist of Naboo
Story and Art: Erik Tiemens
12 pages
Galactic Year: 19 BBY
Preceded by: Revenge of the Sith
Followed by: Sithisis

Wat Tambor and the Quest for the Sacred Eye of the Albino Cyclops
Story and Art: Mike Murnane
13 pages
Galactic Year: 19 BBY
Preceded by: Brothers in Arms
Followed by: The Brink

Sithisis
Story and Art: Derek Thompson
14 pages
Galactic Year: 19 BBY
Preceded by: The Artist of Naboo
Followed by: Orders

Entrenched
Story M. Zachary Sherman
Art: Alex Jaeger
12 pages
Galactic Year: 3 ABY
Preceded by: Tag and Bink Are Dead 2
Followed by: Blind Fury

This story presents the Battle of Hoth (depicted in The Empire Strikes Back) from the perspective of a young Rebel soldier, Corporal Jobin Mothma. He has recorded a holographic message for his mother, and the words in his message parallel the events in the story.

The Rebel troops prepare for the Imperial assault, and the Empire unloads AT-ATs and Juggernauts. Jobin fights in the trenches with his squad. One of his men spots a group of snowtroopers and an AT-ST advancing on the Rebellion's Planetary ion cannon. After attempting to reach Ion Control, he and four of his men rush to outflank the AT-ST.

Meanwhile, the snowtroopers inside the now-captured emplacement listen to Rebel requests for ion support. The Rebels burst in. They dispatch the Imperials, losing a squad member. When Jobin fires the cannon, his men set it to self-destruct. The three remaining troops retreat to Hangar Bay Seven, only to find Darth Vader and his troops.