[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Judge Rotenberg Educational Center

burns. The phone call was later found to be a hoax perpetrated by a former resident who was pretending to be a supervisor. In December 2007, the center was found by the Massachusetts Department of Early Education and Care to have been abusive towards residents and had failed to protect their health.

The incident led to two investigations – one by the federal government, and one by the state of Massachusetts. While the investigation was ongoing, Matthew Israel ordered tapes destroyed, despite a court order to keep them. In May 2011, Israel was indicted on charges of child endangerment, acting as an accessory after the fact, and obstruction of justice for misleading a grand jury over the JRC's destruction of tapes. In 2011, Israel was forced to resign his position at JRC in a deferred prosecution plea deal with the Massachusetts State Attorney General's office.

Torture of Andre McCollins 
In 2002, an autistic teenager from New York City named Andre McCollins was restrained on a four-point board and shocked 31 times over the course of seven hours. The first shock was given after he did not take off his coat when asked; subsequent shocks were given as punishments for screaming and tensing up while being shocked. In the video, McCollins can be heard shouting "Someone, help me, please!" The JRC staff listed this as a "major disruptive behavior", for which he was administered a GED shock. The day after the incident, McCollins' mother had to drive him to the hospital, as he was unable to speak and had burns on many parts of his body. The doctor diagnosed him with acute stress disorder, which was a direct result of the center's aversives. His mother subsequently claimed that "There is no counseling for the [residents] there... and the staff there lied to [her] all these years..."

In 2012, a video of the incident was released as part of a lawsuit by McCollins' mother, which was settled for an undisclosed sum. The video aired on national news, and caught the attention of the hacker group Anonymous, which announced in a YouTube video that the center and those affiliated with it were targets. Anonymous hacked the JRC's website, retrieved confidential information about individuals and groups associated with it, and posted that information to Pastebin. The doxed information included the names and addresses of the center's sponsors, lobbyists, lawyers, supporters, and founder.

Behavior modification
The Judge Rotenberg Center provides behavioral treatment using the methodologies of applied behavior analysis (ABA). JRC's behavior modification program relies heavily on aversion therapy, with treatment directed exclusively towards promoting normalization. Aversives used to modify behavior include: food deprivation, restraint, solitary confinement, and GED skin shocks. While the center often claims that it uses aversives only as last resort against self-harm and aggression, these claims have been refuted. Reports by multiple government agencies have found that the center regularly uses aversives on children with no history of self-harm or aggression, often for minor infractions. Several former residents of the center who used to be on the GED have successfully transitioned to positive behavior support programs elsewhere. There is medical consensus that positive-only support is both safer and more effective than the use of aversives.

Aversives

Contingent skin shocks 

The center has stated that the GED was only used as a last resort to prevent violent or self-injurious behavior when positive behavioral support had failed. However, a 2006 report by the New York State Education Department found that the device was regularly used when there was no threat of serious physical harm or injury, including for:
 Failing to be neat
 Wrapping one's foot around the leg of a chair
 Stopping work for more than ten seconds
 Closing one's eyes for more than five seconds
 Minor acts of noncompliance

Other reported reasons for administering shocks included:
 Using the bathroom without permission
 Urinating on oneself after being refused the right to use the bathroom
 Screaming while being shocked
 Attempting to remove the GED

The report also found that despite the center's claims, no significant positive behavioral support program existed.

Additionally, the report found that the GED could be programmed to give automated skin shocks in response to targeted behaviors. For example, some residents were made to sit on GED seats that would automatically administer skin shocks for the target behavior of standing up, while others wore waist holsters that would administer skin shocks if the resident pulled a hand out of the holster. Shocks were administered continuously until the target behavior stopped occurring. The center did not have approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to use the device in this way.