[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Averno (wrestler)

Renato Ruíz Cortes (born May 9, 1977) is a Mexican professional wrestler better known by the ring name Averno (Hell). Ruíz initially worked for Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) as Rencor Latino in 1995, but did not achieve any significant success until he adopted the ring name Averno in June 2001. Under his new ring name, Ruíz went on to become a one–time CMLL World Middleweight, CMLL World Trios Champion, NWA World Middleweight Champion and NWA World Historic Middleweight Champion and a three–time CMLL World Tag Team Champion. His ring name is most commonly translated as "Hell" in English.

For many years Averno's real name was not a matter of public record, as is often the case with masked wrestlers in Mexico where their private lives are kept a secret from the wrestling fans. However, in May 2011, Averno was booked in a Lucha de Apuesta, where he lost his mask and was forced to reveal his true identity. Ruíz left CMLL in April 2014 and joined rival promotion Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide (AAA) the following month.

Personal life
Renato Ruíz Cortes was born on May 9, 1977, in Mexico City, Mexico, son of then-professional wrestler Rodolfo Ruíz. He began training for a professional wrestling career himself at a young age, training under his father, who by then had retired from in-ring competition and instead was working as a referee and trainer. He made his in-ring debut in 1995, around his eighteenth birthday.

Professional wrestling career

Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (1995-2014)

Rencor Latino (1995–2001)
Ruíz began wrestling in 1995 under the ring name Rencor Latino (Latin Hostility). Working as Rencor Latino he soon started working in the lower ranks of Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL; "World Wrestling Council"). He won his first Lucha de Apuestas, or "bet match", 1998 unmasking Apolo Chino by defeating him after a midcard feud. On August 4, 2002, Rencor Latino was one of twelve wrestlers putting their mask on the line during CMLL's Entre Torre Infernal ("In the Infernal Tower") pay-per-view. The match came down to Rencor Latino and veteran wrestler El Hijo del Gladiador, and ended with Rencor Latino winning the match, taking El Hijo del Gladiador's mask in the process. He continued wrestling in the midcard until he was recruited by El Satánico in the summer of 2001 to be part of a new Los Infernales ("The Infernal Ones") group.

Averno (2001–2014)

During a televised segment Satánico used his supposed "satanic powers" to turn técnico (good guy) Rencor Latino into one of his "minions", a rudo (bad guy) character known as "Averno" ("Hell"). Traditionally when a masked wrestler transitions from one identity to a new identity it is not publicly acknowledged, but in Ruíz' case it was actually part of the storyline. As a result of the transition Averno would on occasion wrestle wearing a special mask that was half Averno, half Rencor Latino. Satánico and Averno were joined by Mephisto who had previously wrestled as Astro Rey Jr. The trio feuded with Último Guerrero, Rey Bucanero, and Tarzan Boy throughout the year with Averno and El Satánico unsuccessfully challenging Guerrero and Bucanero for the CMLL World Tag Team Championship in August 2001. The team lost when Satánico was disqualified for using a low blow. When Tarzan Boy was injured and unable to wrestle Bucanero and Guerrero recruited Máscara Mágica to even the numbers. The storyline between the two factions reaches its high point at the CMLL 68th Anniversary Show where all seven wrestlers faced off in a steel cage match. The stipulation of the match was that the winning side would gain the rights to use the name Los Infernales while the loser on the opposite side would be forced to unmask or have their hair shaved off. In the end El Satánico pinned Máscara Mágica, forcing him to unmask. After losing the match Guerrero, Bucanero and Tarzan Boy became known collectively as Los Guerreros del Infierno (The Infernal Soldiers), while El Satánico, Averno and Mephisto continuing to work as Los Infernales.