[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Kenney Dam

der to be safe for migrating and spawning salmon. In response to the DFO studies, the federal government asked Alcan to increase water flow from the Nechako Reservoir into the river, but Alcan declined. This led to the "constitutional battle" over who controls the flow of water in the Nechako River.

Kemano Completion Project
In the late 1970s Alcan announced the Kemano Completion Project. The project would construct a second tunnel from the Nechako Reservoir to Kemano, where four more power generators would be built.

Controversies began in 1980, starting with the DFO and the federal government when they realized Alcan was going to go ahead with the Kemano Completion project without addressing the existing water level and temperature concerns. The proposed Kemano Completion Project would result in an additional 12% reduction in the Nechako River water levels. To avoid increased tensions Alcan accepted annual renewals of a court injunction setting water flows from 1980 until 1985, while the DFO performed studies on the potential effects on the Nechako's salmon population. In 1985, Alcan refused to consent to the renewal of the injunction, and DFO brought a claim against Alcan in the Supreme Court of British Columbia. Both parties armed with their own scientists.  While the trial was briefly commenced in 1987, it was ultimately settled out of court through negotiations involving Alcan, the provincial government and the federal government, resulting in the 1987 settlement agreement. Aspects of the agreement include: Alcan could build a cold water release valve in the Nechako Reservoir to cool the water temperature for migrating salmon and, in turn, release a smaller volume of water, and the company gave up its water rights to the Nanika River. In addition, the federal and provincial governments agreed to allow Alcan to proceed with a modified version of its completion project. Critics and opposition governments accused all three parties of not doing a proper environmental assessment.

Alcan has not built the cold water release facility outlined in the 1987 settlement agreement, and as such has not reduced the amount of water released in to the Nechako water system. Studies showed that the water in the reservoir was too cold and contained too much nitrogen, while not enough oxygen. In order to create the correct balance, it was suggested that Alcan needed to draw water from both the centre and the surface of the reservoir, then run the water through "a hallow cone valve and over a baffle-clock spillway to reduce the amount of nitrogen". Second delays in the construction were due to a decrease in the demand of aluminum and a decrease in the economy. 

In the early 1990s there were increased objections to the completion project, both from the public and the newly elected NDP provincial government, and in 1993 the BC Utilities Commission was directed to conduct public hearings. The hearings began January 17, 1994. They looked at the design and construction of the plans for the facilities required for the completion project, hydrology impacts, fishery impacts, and the economic impacts for the people in the surrounding areas. In 1995, due to the potential and unresolved impacts on the salmon fishery, BC Premier Mike Harcourt announced the cancellation of the Kemano Completion Project. However, Alcan had already invested $1.3 billion in the Kemano Completion Project and in 1987 had been given permission to continue with the project.

After two years of negotiations between Alcan and the BC government, the two parties signed the 1997 settlement agreement. Alcan committed to spending $50 million on a cold water release facility at Kenney Dam. In addition, the government paid Alcan $500 million for what the company had previously invested in the project.

See also

Nechako River
Nechako Reservoir
Nechako Canyon Protected Area
Kemano, British Columbia
Kitimat, British Columbia

External links
 Power Operations – Rio Tinto Alcan.
  "Engineers Invade Another Wilderness – Huge Canadian Power Project Marks 20th Century Frontier Boom" , by Richard Neuberger detailed 1951 Popular Science article on the Kemano Hydro Project
 "Colossus in the Wilderness" Popular Mechanics, December 1953, pp. 96–104.

References

Hydroelectric power stations in British Columbia
Dams in British Columbia
Nechako Country
Rock-filled dams
Dams completed in 1954
1954 establishments in British Columbia
Privately owned dams in Canada
Kitimat