[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# South Carolina Dispensary

e dry counties sought to end the sale of alcohol throughout the state. A referendum held in the state on the question of prohibition saw two-to-one support from the voters, and the General Assembly subsequently enacted a law in 1916 to ban the sale of alcohol and limit importation from other states.

Bottle varieties
For the most part, all that remains of the S.C. Dispensary are the (mostly empty) bottles that were made simply to contain alcoholic beverages to be sold and consumed, with no regard to the aesthetics of the bottle or design. The bottles are treasured by collectors not for their beauty of design or color, but more as a link to an intriguing era in history.

Today, many bottle collectors enthusiastically seek S.C. Dispensary bottles, which have become fairly scarce in terms of common varieties. A few varieties are exceedingly rare and are worth $20,000 or more to avid collectors willing to pay the price for them. Some very rare specimens bring just under $30,000, under the right conditions.

The most common type of S.C. Dispensary bottle is the "jo-jo" flask, which is a flask with flat panels front and back, rounded shoulders, and a rounding towards the base. These were made and used throughout the life of the dispensary system. Another type of flask, the union flask, was used until the turn of the 20th century, and none were made with the monogram design. Unlike the jo-jos, which all bore the legend "SC Dispensary", unions bore both this and "South Carolina Dispensary". Half-pint, pint, and one quart cylindrical bottles were also made and used.

Stoneware jugs were produced in two major variants. They consist of ones made in Edgefield District, South Carolina and ones made in Virginia.

The South Carolina variations were made in half-gallon and gallon sizes, all were made from local clay with the palmetto tree and S. C. Dispensary stamped by hand after being wheel turned. In June 1893, the state purchased 2,118 half-gallon jugs and 2,046 one-gallon jugs from J. G. Baynham of Trenton at a total cost of $217.35. The half-gallon jugs were 3.5 cents each and the one-gallon jugs were 7 cents each. The vast majority were made by Baynham, but the Hahn(or Horne) family assisted with some of the production.

A fine example of one of these jugs can bring $7,000 to $9,000.  A lot of factors go into making it a "fine example".

The Virginia stoneware jugs were not wheel turned but made with a Jigger-Mold or similar process.  The three main varieties of these and all known specimens are stamped with a blue state emblem and the dispensary name under a clear silica/glass glaze. These will bring $2,500 to $3,500 depending on condition and variation.

There are fakes on the market of both variants and a couple of the glass bottles.

There are other non-typical bottle types, and some bottles which were not embossed, being marked as a dispensary item by label only. A much sought after item is the two-ounce capacity souvenir commemorative dispensary bottle made for the South Carolina Interstate and West Indian Exposition in Charleston, S.C. which was held in 1901–1902. With different glass color varieties, glass manufacturers, and design nuances, there are many varieties of S.C. Dispensary bottles to be collected. Each S.C. Dispensary bottle is unique due to being blown in a mold by a glassblower, as the Owens AR automatic bottle-making machine was not yet in widespread use.

Notes

References

 Niels Christensen, Jr. "The State Dispensaries of South Carolina," Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, vol. 32, (Nov., 1908), pp. 75–85 in JSTOR
 John Evans Eubanks. Ben Tillman's Baby: The Dispensary System of South Carolina, 1892-1915. (1950)

 Heath, Frederick M. and Kinard, Harriet H. "Prohibition in South Carolina, 1880-1940: an Overview." Proceedings of the South Carolina Historical Association 1980: 118–132.  Retrieved March 23, 2017.
 Francis Butler Simkins. The Tillman Movement in South Carolina. (Duke U.P. 1926) ch 8 online edition

External links
SC Statehouse Biography of Governor Ben Tillman
SCIway Biography of Governor Ben Tillman
ASME Manufacturing of bottles
SC Dispensary bottles
 Hamm, Richard F. Dispensary. South Carolina Encyclopedia

History of South Carolina
Benjamin Tillman
Prohibition in the United States
South Carolina law