[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Darragh Ó Sé

Darragh Ó Sé (born 5 March 1975 in Ard an Bhóthair, Ventry, County Kerry) is an Irish former Gaelic footballer. He plays with his local club, An Ghaeltacht, and was a member at senior level of the Kerry county team from 1997 until he announced his retirement in early 2010. Ó Sé has made 81 championship appearances, scoring one goal and 31 points. He also appeared for Kerry in 95 National Football League games scoring one goal and 26 points. He is regarded as one of the greatest midfielders of all time.   His younger brothers Tomás and Marc are also Gaelic footballers who have represented Kerry at the All-Ireland Senior Club Football Championship

Playing career

Club
Ó Sé played his club football with his local club called an Ghaeltacht and enjoyed a great deal of success during his career. He made his debut with the club's senior team in 1992 and was an ever-present fixture at midfield.

In 2000 an Ghaeltacht reached the final of the county senior championship for the very first time.  Ó Sé's side were the red-hot favourites going into the match; however, all did not go as planned as Dr. Croke's took charge. A hard-fought 1–4 to 0–6 score line resulted in defeat for an Ghaeltacht.

In 2001 an Ghaeltacht were out to atone for this defeat. The team regrouped well and reached a second consecutive county final. Tralee-based club Austin Stack's provided the opposition on this occasion; however, Ó Sé's side were well prepared.  A conclusive 1–13 to 0–10 victory gave Ó Sé a county winners' medal.

An Ghaeltacht surrendered their club title in 2002; however, the following year Ó Sé's side were back in the county championship decider.  Laune Rangers were the opponents on this occasion, however, the game ended in a 0–10 apiece draw. The replay a fortnight later was a much more conclusive affair. A 0–12 to 2–4 score line gave an Ghaeltacht the victory and gave Ó Cinnéide a second county winners' medal in three years. This victory allowed the club to represent Kerry in the provincial club championship. A successful campaign saw Ó Sé's side reach the provincial final against St. Senan's of Clare. A close game developed, however, the Kerrymen held on in the end to secure a 1–8 to 1–6 victory, giving Ó Sé a Munster club winners' medal. An Ghaeltacht continued their march in the All-Ireland series and lined out on St. Patrick's Day 2004 in the All-Ireland club championship final. Caltra, a club from County Galway, provided the opposition and an exciting game developed. Dara Ó Cinnéide faced the heartbreak of missing a goal in the dying seconds as an Ghaeltacht lost out by just a single point – 0–13 to 0–12.

The following few years saw Ó Sé enjoy little success with the club after the victories of the earlier parts of the decade.

Minor & under-21
Ó Sé first came to prominence on the inter-county scene as a member of the Kerry minor football team in the early 1990s. He first lined out with his native county in that grade in 1993, however, Kerry were knocked out of the provincial championship at a very early stage.

Ó Sé subsequently joined the Kerry under-21 team in 1994. While it was an unsuccessful year for the team in that grade, Ó Sé's nailed down his position at midfield and the following year lined out in his first Munster under-21 final. Opponents Waterford were inflicted with a 1–21 to 2–5 trouncing, giving Ó Sé a Munster winners' medal in the under-21 grade. Kerry later qualified to play Mayo in the All-Ireland final. After the highs of the Munster final victory, Kerry were held to a draw and a replay was required. That game was also a close affair, however, Kerry's goal-scoring ability proved the key. A 3–10 to 1–12 score line saw Kerry claim the victory and gave Ó Sé an All-Ireland winners' medal with the Kerry under-21 team.

In 1996 Ó Sé was in his final year as a member of the Kerry under-21 team. A second Munster winners' medal was secured after an absolute trouncing of Clare in the provincial decider. The 3–14 to 0–6 victory put Kerry on the All-Ireland trail once again. Cavan provided the opposition in the subsequent All-Ireland decider, however, that game was far from a rout. Kerry had the upper hand for much of the game and went on to win by 1–17 to 2–10. It was Ó Sé's second All-Ireland winners' medal in the under-21 grade.

College
He played for Dublin Institute of Technology, with whom he won a Trench Cup in 1995.

Senior
By this stage Ó Sé was also a member of the Kerry senior football team. He made his senior debut in a National Football League game against Donegal in the 1993–94 season. Ó Sé later made his championship debut against Limerick; however, Kerry were defeated on that occasion.

In 1995 Ó Sé played in his first senior Munster final against archrivals Cork. Expectations were high that 'the Kingdom' could defeat 'the Rebels' and break back into the big time after a three-year period in the wilderness. The game was a disappointing one for Ó Sé as his side lost by 0–15 to 1–9.