[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Douglas Murray (author)

rd, and the New York Post. In February 2022, Murray became a Fox News contributor.

Political views 

Murray has been described as a conservative, a neoconservative, and a regular critic of immigration and Islam. Murray's views have been described as "anti-Muslim" by British journalist Peter Oborne.

Murray has argued that the term 'far right' is used far too often by the political left. He has also said that political parties previously identified as far-right should be recognised as being able to moderate their politics over time. Murray has argued that there is an effort by the left to destroy Western culture and has argued that criticisms of Western leaders and philosophers are motivated by attempts to hurt the west.

Islam and Muslims
In February 2006, Douglas Murray said "conditions for Muslims in Europe must be made harder across the board: Europe must look like a less attractive proposition." Murray's former coworker James Brandon interpreted this comment as calling for the collective punishment of Muslims. After Murray refused Paul Goodman's offer to disown these comments, the Conservative Party frontbench severed formal relations with Murray and his Centre for Social Cohesion.

According to Murray's former coworker at the Centre for Social Cohesion, James Brandon, Murray failed to distinguish Islam from Islamism. Brandon said he attempted to "de-radicalise" Murray to ensure that only Islamists were targeted and not "Muslims as a whole". Brandon writes that Murray has privately retracted some of his comments.

In 2005 Murray said there is "a creed of Islamic fascism – a malignant fundamentalism, woken from the Dark Ages to assault us here and now". In 2010, during an Intelligence Squared US debate titled "Is Islam a Religion of Peace?" Murray argued "[Islam's Prophet] Muhammad was a bad man".

In the wake of the 2017 London Bridge attack, Murray blamed Islam as a religion and called for reduced immigration.

In 2008, Murray listed the cases of 27 writers, activists, politicians and artists – including Sir Salman Rushdie, Maryam Namazie and Anwar Shaikh, all three of whom had received death threats due to their criticism of Islam. Murray said that "Unless Muslims are allowed to discuss their religion without fear of attack there can be no chance of reform or genuine freedom of conscience within Islam."

In 2009, Murray was prevented from chairing a debate at the London School of Economics between Alan Sked and Hamza Tzortzis on the topic "Islam or Liberalism: Which is the Way Forward?", with the university citing security concerns following a week-long student protest against Israel's attacks on Gaza. The debate took place without Murray chairing. The move was criticised by the conservative press, such as The Daily Telegraph and The Spectator.

In June 2009, Murray accepted an invitation to a debate with Anjem Choudary, leader of the banned group Al-Muhajiroun, on the subject of Sharia law and British law at Conway Hall. Members of Al-Muhajiroun acting as security guards tried to segregate men and women at the entrance of the event. Clashes broke out near the entrance between Choudary's and Murray's supporters and Conway Hall cancelled the debate because of the attempted forced separation of men and women. Outside the building, a confrontation between Choudary and Murray over the cancellation of the event occurred. Murray's Centre for Social Cohesion later published a study arguing that one in seven Islam-related terrorist cases in the UK could be linked to Al-Muhajiroun.

Murray has argued in defence of Muslim reformers in his writing.

Brexit 
Murray supported the 'Leave' side in the UK's 2016 EU referendum. In the wake of the Brexit vote, Murray expressed concern that the result "has just not been accepted by an elite" and said that the result "should be celebrated by anybody who actually believes in democracy".

Immigration 
Murray is a vocal critic of immigration. In March 2013, Murray claimed that London was a "foreign country" due to "white Britons" becoming a minority in 23 of the 33 London boroughs. In Murray's book The Strange Death of Europe, he writes that Europe and its values are committing suicide due to mass immigration; in the opening pages, he calls for halting Muslim immigration. In the book, he also details crimes committed by immigrants in Europe and writes favourably of immigration hard liner Viktor Orbán.