[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Executions during the Irish Civil War

with bitterness for a decade afterwards. In the Irish republican tradition, those IRA members executed in the Civil War became martyrs and were venerated in songs and poems. (For example, the ballad "Take It Down From The Mast", written in 1923 by James Ryan and later popularised by Dominic Behan).

As a result of the executions in the Civil War, many Republicans would never accept the Free State as a legitimate Irish government, but rather saw it as a repressive, British-imposed government. This attitude was partially alleviated after 1932, when Fianna Fáil, the party that represented the bulk of the Republican constituency, entered government peacefully. Ironically, in 1939 De Valera himself enacted the Offences against the State Act and the Emergency Powers Act 1939, under which a further 5 Republicans were executed by hanging.

Kevin O'Higgins, the man Republicans saw as most directly responsible for the enactment of the Public Safety Act, with its sanction of executions, himself fell victim to assassination by the IRA in 1927 - becoming one of the last victims of Civil War era violence in Ireland. Richard Mulcahy became a leader of Fine Gael in 1948, but never became Taoiseach because of his role in the Civil War.

In fiction
Author Ulick O'Connor wrote a play in 1985 titled Execution about the 1922 executions of Rory O'Connor, Liam Mellows, Joe McKelvey and Dick Barrett.

The 2006 film The Wind That Shakes the Barley climaxes with an IRA guerrilla being executed by a firing squad commanded by his own brother, who supports the Free State. This was inspired by the case of Sean and Tom Hales who were both leaders, but on opposing sides of the war.

The Republican: An Irish Civil War Story by T.S. O'Rourke follows the Irish Civil War from a Republican perspective in Dublin and includes details of the reprisal executions carried out by the Free State.

List of official executions

See also
 Timeline of the Irish Civil War
 Free State Intelligence Department – Oriel House
 Capital punishment in Ireland

References

Bibliography
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 *

External links
 Republican perspective in an An Phoblacht article on the executions
 Irish writer Ulick O'Connor in the Irish Independent on the executions of December 8, 1922
 Article on the executions of seven republicans from Kildare
 New York Times, 9 December 1922 on the Executions of Mellows, O'Connor, McKelvey and Barrett
 Article on executions in Offaly
 An Phoblacht article about summary executions
 Republican article about killings in Dublin
 An article on the memory of the Civil War Killings in Dublin

Irish Civil War