[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of University of the Philippines Diliman people

isumbing - USC Chairperson
 Rafael Salas - USC Chairperson
 Miriam Defensor Santiago - USC Vice Chairperson, Philippine Collegian Editor-in Chief
 Eric de Guia (aka Kidlat Tahimik ) - Student Union Chairperson; member, Upsilon Sigma Phi
 Wenceslao Vinzons - USC Chairperson; member, Upsilon Sigma Phi

Notable past and present faculty
Maria Ressa - journalist and Rappler CEO; included in the Times Person of the Year 2018 and first Filipina Nobel Peace Prize laureate
Romulo Davide - National Academy of Science and Technology, Nematology/Plant Pathology; Upsilon Sigma Phi
Jose Juliano - National Academy of Science and Technology, Nuclear Chemistry and Physics; Upsilon Sigma Phi
 Vicente Abad Santos - former Supreme Court justice
 Nicanor Abelardo - Filipino musician, composer of "U.P. Naming Mahal" ("U.P. Beloved"), the University of the Philippines hymn
 José Abueva - former University of the Philippines president
 Napoleon Abueva - sculptor and National Artist
 Virgilio S. Almario - National Artist; former director of the U.P. Institute of Creative Writing; current UP College of Arts and Letters dean
 Walden Bello - sociologist
 Henry Otley Beyer - co-founder, UP Department of Anthropology
 Emilia Boncodin - former Budget and Management secretary; Hyatt 10 member
 Clarita Carlos - political analyst; president of Center for Asia Pacific Studies, Inc.; pioneer of political psychology in the country
 Ryan Cayabyab - musician, artistic director of the San Miguel Foundation for the Performing Arts
 Irene Cortes - lawyer and former Supreme Court of the Philippines justice
 Adrian Cristobal - writer, columnist
 Isagani R. Cruz - literary critic and playwright
 Randy David - professor of sociology; newspaper columnist; former TV public affairs host
 Malou de Guzman - film and TV actress, former senior lecturer at the UP Film Institute
 Juan R. Francisco - indologist and professor
 N. V. M. Gonzalez - fictionist and National Artist
 Margarita Holmes - renowned psychologist and sex expert, TV personality
 Jun Lana - playwright, screenwriter and director
 Cheche Lazaro - broadcast journalist; founding president of Probe Productions, Inc.
 Salvador P. Lopez - writer, journalist, diplomat, former University of the Philippines president
 Alexander Magno - political scientist, TV host, newspaper columnist
 Rogemar Mamon - mathematician, quantitative analyst, British and Canadian academic
 Paz Márquez-Benítez - fictionist
 Felipe B. Miranda - founder of Pulse Asia; Professor Emeritus at University of the Philippines Diliman Department of Political Science
 Solita Monsod - professor of economics, former Economic Planning secretary, newspaper columnist, broadcast journalist
Ambeth R. Ocampo - historian, writer, Chairman National Historical Institute, TOYM History, decorated by Spain and France
 Cristina Padolina - professor of chemistry; current President of Centro Escolar University
 Raymundo Punongbayan - geologist, former Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) director
 Henry J. Ramos - first Filipino plasma physicist, inventor
 Nicanor Reyes Sr. - economist, one of the founders of Far Eastern University
 Temario Rivera - political scientist
 Carlos P. Romulo - Pulitzer Prize winner, president of the United Nations General Assembly 1949–1950, former chairman of the United Nations Security Council and University of the Philippines president
 Caesar Saloma - applied physicist, Dean of College of Science, recipient of 2004 International Commission for Optics' Galileo Award, 2008 ASEAN Outstanding Scientist and Technologist Award
 E. San Juan Jr. - poet and cultural critic
 Bienvenido Santos - poet and fictionist
 Rogelio R. Sikat - writer
 Cesar Virata - former Philippines prime minister and Finance secretary; former dean and professor at the UP College of Business Administration
 Haydee Yorac - professor of law; former Philippine Commission of Elections; chairperson of the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG) commissioner
 Prescillano Zamora - professor of biology

Faculty members who are writers
 Gémino Abad
 Mila Aguilar
 Virgilio Almario
 José Wendell Capili
 Lourdes Castrillo Brillantes
 Conchitina Cruz
 Jose Dalisay Jr.
 J. Neil Garcia
 Luis Katigbak
 Domingo Landicho
 Bienvenido Lumbera
 Paolo Manalo
 Ambeth R. Ocampo
 Cristina Pantoja-Hidalgo
 Ligaya Tiamson-Rubin
 Nicanor Tiongson
 Ricardo de Ungria
 Rene Villanueva

National Artists
Of the 66 National Artists of the Philippines thus far honored, the majority are UP alumni, including three former students who did not earn their degree at the university. The honored league of National Artists from UP are: