[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Aaron Ramsey

les, beginning with the match against England on 26 March 2011. This made him the youngest ever Wales captain at the age of 20 years 90 days, beating the record set by Mike England in 1964. He scored his first goal as captain in Wales' final Nations Cup match against Northern Ireland on 27 May 2011.

Ramsey was one of five Welshmen selected to compete at the 2012 Olympic Football Tournament for Great Britain. He featured in all three group games, the latter two as a starter. In the quarter-finals against South Korea on 4 August at Cardiff's Millennium Stadium, he equalised with a penalty kick and the match finished 1–1; he scored again in the penalty shootout which his team lost.

In October 2012, Ashley Williams was appointed captain of Wales by Chris Coleman, replacing Ramsey after a run of defeats, but the manager said Ramsey would most likely be captain of Wales again in his career. On 22 March 2013, Ramsey scored an equalising 73rd-minute penalty in a 2–1 victory over fellow British rivals Scotland in a 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification fixture. However, he received a red card for a foul on James McArthur during added time.

On 31 May 2016, Ramsey was named in the 23-man Wales squad for Euro 2016. On 11 June, in Wales' opening match of the tournament, he set-up Hal Robson-Kanu's match-winning goal in a 2–1 win over Slovakia; this was Wales's first win in a major international football tournament in 58 years. On 20 June, in his team's final group match, he scored the opening goal of a 3–0 win over Russia, which saw Wales top their group; he also set-up the final goal of the match, which was scored by Gareth Bale. In the round of 16 match against Northern Ireland on 25 June, Ramsey once again contributed to a Welsh victory in the 75th minute of play; he played a pass to Bale, who then delivered a cross into the penalty area; defender Gareth McAuley deflected the ball into his own net, and Wales won the match 1–0. Ramsey was booked in injury-time for kicking the ball away after conceding a foul. In the quarter-final against Belgium on 1 July, Ramsey set up two goals in a 3–1 win which ultimately saw his nation advance to the semi-finals; however, he was booked for the second time in the tournament during the match, which ruled him out of the semi-final. Wales were eliminated from the tournament in the following match by eventual champions Portugal on 6 July. Ramsey finished the tournament as the joint-highest assist provider, with four assists, alongside Eden Hazard, and was named to the team of the tournament for his performances.

Ramsey missed the first three matches in Wales' qualification group for the 2018 FIFA World Cup, but played the full 90 minutes for the other seven. He scored the opening goal in a 1–1 draw with Serbia and the second goal in a 2–0 win over Moldova, and assisted Tom Lawrence's goal against Georgia. Ultimately, Wales missed out on qualifying for the World Cup, as they lost to the Republic of Ireland in the final group match, with the Irish finishing above them in second place. When the two countries met again in the UEFA Nations League, Wales won the match 4–1, with Ramsey scoring the third goal. He missed much of the qualification group matches for UEFA Euro 2020 through injury, but he came off the bench to play thirty minutes against Azerbaijan and in the final group match, he scored a brace against Hungary to secure qualification. The following year, further injuries prevented him from making more than one appearance for Wales, and in 2021, he played in two friendlies, before being named in the 26-man Wales squad for Euro 2020, which was delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He scored the opening goal in Wales's second group match on 16 June, a 2–0 win over Turkey; he helped his country qualify for the round of 16, in which they were beaten 4–0 by Denmark. Ramsey missed the September matches of Wales' qualification group for the 2022 FIFA World Cup, and returned the next month, where he scored against the Czech Republic. He then went on to provide the assist for Kieffer Moore in a 1–0 win over Estonia, and scored another brace against Belarus. Wales finished second in their group behind Belgium, qualifying for the play-off semi-final. Ramsey played in the semi-finals and the final, overcoming Austria and Ukraine, respectively, thus cementing their place in history as the first Welsh squad to qualify for a World Cup in 64 years. In November 2022, he was named in the 26-man Wales squad for the 2022 FIFA World Cup. Ramsey played in all three group matches, but Wales finished bottom of their group.

On 14 March 2023, Wales announced that Ramsey had been named captain again following the retirement of Gareth Bale.

He scored his 100th career goal when he scored from the penalty spot in Wales' 2-0 win over Latvia on 11 September 2023.

Style of play