[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Larry Brilliant

On February 22, 2006, Google Inc. appointed him as the Executive Director of Google.org, the philanthropic arm of Google, a position which he held until April, 2009, when he joined the Skoll Foundation, as its President, the philanthropic organization established by former eBay president Jeff Skoll.

In July 2006, he was awarded the TED Prize, granting him $100,000 and 'One Wish to Change the World' which he presented at TED in July 2006.  As his prize nominator summed up, "'Dr. Brilliant' is a name to live up to, and he has."  His one wish that he presented at the conference was, "To build a powerful new early warning system to protect our world from some of its worst nightmares."

Following the H1N1 swine flu outbreak in 2010, Brilliant expressed concern that the public was not suitably concerned by the threat posed by infectious diseases. This led to Brilliant and several colleagues contributing to the creation of the film Contagion, released the following year in 2011.

In May 2013, he gave the commencement speech at Harvard School of Public Health,

COVID-19 
In spring 2020, Brilliant commented that the World Health Organization, where he had worked for ten years, was slow to declare COVID-19 a pandemic.

Brilliant participates as an advisor to the COVID-19 Technology Task Force, a technology industry coalition founded in March 2020 collaborating on solutions to respond to and recover from the COVID-19 pandemic.

Personal life
Brilliant is married to Girija (formerly Elaine) and has three children: Joe, Jon, and Iris Brilliant. Girija holds a PhD in public health administration and is an equal partner in many of her husband's enterprises. Co-founder of Seva Foundation, she was instrumental in the World Health Organization's smallpox eradication program.

Brilliant was a close friend of Steve Jobs and visited him often during the last year of his life.

References

External links

 Are Social Entrepreneurs Heroes? Larry Brilliant on BBC The Forum
 
 Seva Foundation (Co-Founder)
 Larry Brilliant, President, Skoll Global Threats Fund, Profile at Skoll Foundation
 
  (TED2006)
  (Skoll World Forum 2007)

1944 births
20th-century American businesspeople
American humanitarians
American officials of the United Nations
American people of Russian-Jewish descent
American philanthropists
American public health doctors
Jewish American writers
Living people
Google employees
Physicians from Detroit
University of Michigan School of Public Health alumni
University of Michigan faculty
Wayne State University School of Medicine alumni
World Health Organization officials
21st-century American Jews
American epidemiologists
21st-century American businesspeople