[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peter Ackerman

ounded several other companies, including Safari Acquisition. One of Safari's attempted acquisitions was its 1996 bid for control of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. His main investment firms include Rockport Capital Inc. and Crown Capital. In 2002 Ackerman co-founded the online grocery service FreshDirect.

Ackerman was a member of the board of the Atlantic Council, and the Council on Foreign Relations. He was the chair emeritus of the board of advisors of The Fletcher School at Tufts University, his alma mater, and was the former chair of the board of trustees of Freedom House, serving there from September 2005 until January 2009.

Political activities
In 2008, Ackerman sat on the board for Unity08, an organization intended to fund third-party candidates. In October 2012 Ackerman, along with New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg and Passport Capital founder John Burbank, funded the purchase of $1.75 million in independent political advertising, in the name of Ackerman's tax-exempt Americans Elect organization, to support the Senate campaign of Maine governor Angus King. Ackerman contributed the initial $5 million seed money to Americans Elect, a 2012 third-party Presidential nomination initiative, and served as chairman of its board of directors. Ackerman's son, Elliot, serves as Chief Operating Officer of Americans Elect. On May 17, 2012 Americans Elect, unable to mount a successful primary ballot, announced that "The primary process for the Americans Elect nomination has come to an end."

Controversy
Georgian Prime Minister Irakli Gharibashvili accused Peter Ackerman of working with the Georgian opposition to overthrow the Government of Georgia.

Courtroom issues
In 2003 Ackerman sued the California Franchise Tax Board to recover $5 million in taxes previously paid. He lost the case on appeal. In 2005 a bill was introduced in the California legislature, which was noted by a Senate Revenue and Taxation Committee analysis to appear to solely benefit Ackerman at a potential cost of $5 million to the state. That year the United States Tax Court ruled that Ackerman was involved in an illegal $1.7 billion tax shelter; the IRS determined that Ackerman owed $150 million in taxes. This case was resolved in June 2011 in an undisclosed settlement. Another tax court ruling in 2009 found that he owed an additional $2.6 million.

Death 
Ackerman died on April 26, 2022.

References

External links
A Force More Powerful

1946 births
2022 deaths
Colgate University alumni
The Fletcher School at Tufts University alumni
Drexel Burnham Lambert
Businesspeople from New York City