[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Glandular odontogenic cyst

ce of CRTC3-MAML2 fusion after an in-vitro application. The MAML2 rearrangement represents the developmental growth of the central MEC from the GOC. The use of fusion-gene transcript may be helpful towards the differentiation of the GOC from the central MEC of the jaw and salivary glands.

Treatment

Pre-treatment protocols 

A computed tomography and panoramic x-ray must be undertaken in order to observe the severity of internal complications. These scans allow for the observation of the GOC size, radiolucency, cortical bone, dentition, root, and vestibular zone. In some cases, the dentition may be embedded into the cavity walls of the lesion, depending on the position of expansion at the odontogenic tissue. The diagnosis of a smaller sized GOC is related to the attachment of only two teeth. While, a greater sized GOC develops over two teeth. Presentation of a greater sized lesion usually requires a biopsy for a differential diagnosis and a precise treatment plan.

Treatment process 
The unilocular and multilocular nature is imperative to the determination of treatment style. Local anesthesia is regularly provided as the GOC is embedded within the tissue structure of the jaw and requires an invasive procedure for a safe and accurate extraction. For unilocular GOCs with minimal tissue deterioration, "enucleation, curettage, and marsupialization" is a suitable treatment plan. Notably, the performance of enucleation or curettage as the primary action is linked to an incomplete extraction of the GOC and is only recommended to the less invasive lesions. Multilocular GOCs require a more invasive procedure such as "peripheral ostectomy, marginal resection, or partial jaw resection". GOCs associated with a more severe structural damage are encouraged to undergo marsupialization as either an initial or supplementary surgery. The frequency of reappearance is likely due to the lingering cystic tissue structures that remain after the performance of curettage. The incorporation of a "dredging method i.e. repetition of enucleation and curettage" is also suggested until the remnants of the GOC diminishes for certain. The treatment ensures scar tissue is removed to promote the successful reconstruction of osseous material for jaw preservation. Alongside the main treatments, bone allograft application, cryosurgery, and apicoectomy are available but have not been consistently recommended. Though Carnoy's solution, the chloroform-free version, is recommended with the treatment as it degenerates the majority of the damaged dental lamina. The most effective type of treatment remains unknown due to the lack of detailed data from reported cases.

Post-treatment protocols 
Follow-up appointments are necessary after the removal of the GOC as there is a high chance of remission, which may be exacerbated in cases dealing with "cortical plate perforation". The GOC has a significant remission rate of 21 to 55% that can potentially develop during the period of 0.5 to 7 years post-surgery. Cases occupied with a lower risk lesion are expected to continue appointments with physicians for up to 3 years post-surgery. A higher risk lesion is encouraged to consistently consult with physicians during a 7-year period after treatment. Remission events require immediate attention and appropriate procedures such as enucleation or curettage. In more damaging cases of remission, tissue resection, and marsupialization may have to be performed.

Epidemiology 
The clinical presentation of the GOC is very low in the population as noted by the 0.12 to 0.13% occurrence rate, extrapolated from a sample size of the 181 individuals. The GOC mainly affects older individuals in the population, especially those that are in their 40 to 60s. However, the GOC can affect younger individuals i.e. 11, and more older individuals i.e. 82 in the population. The age distribution starts at a much lower number for people living in Asia and Africa. Those in their first 10 years of life have not been diagnosed with the GOC. The GOC does present a tendency to proliferate in more males than females. There is no definitive conclusion towards the relevance of gender and its influence on the rate of incidence.

References

Bibliography

Further reading 

 

Cysts of the oral and maxillofacial region
Lesion