[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kay v Lambeth LBC

ach of the majority who decided the earlier legal decision as to the "width" of "gateway (b)" was incompatible with the Article.

Facts and judgment in the Leeds appeal
Lord Scott combined the fact pattern and legal consequences, as others in their opinions did. Concatenating his paragraphs 123-128:

The appellants were the five-adult Maloney family, travellers, whose home was in one or more caravans, often on the move from one place to another. The respondent was Leeds City Council ("Leeds"). Leeds is the owner of a recreation ground (at Spinkwell Lane). On 13 June 2004 the Maloneys moved onto it, after successively at least two other groups of travellers entered and parked there since the previous month. Two days later, on 15 June, Leeds sued in the County Court for possession. The particulars of claim said that the travellers were trespassers and refused to vacate the recreation ground. 24 June 2004 was the return date specified on the claim form. The Maloney family were the only occupiers of the recreation ground to attend court on that date and they contested. They were formally joined as defendants. The case was adjourned to be heard in October. Leeds' claim to possession was based on its ownership (not in dispute). Nor disputed was that the Maloneys were trespassers who had entered onto and remained on the land without any licence or consent from Leeds. They sought to defend by relying on article 8 and by contending that Leeds was in breach of its statutory obligations to provide suitable sites where gypsies could park their caravans. They said, also, that their personal circumstances were "exceptional" in that several members of the family suffered from medical and psychiatric problems, three members of the family were school-age children and in the twelve months preceding their trespass the family had been evicted or forced to move under threat of eviction more than fifty times. Leeds responded by notifying the family that their status as unintentionally homeless and in priority need was accepted and by accepting a duty to help them obtain accommodation.

On 22 September the case was transferred to the High Court. The article 8 issue was dealt with as a preliminary issue and, on 25 October, HHJ Bush, following Harrow LBC v Qazi, held that contractual and proprietary rights to possession could not be defeated or qualified by reliance on article 8. So he made an order for possession forthwith. He refused a stay of execution but gave leave to appeal to the Court of Appeal. Following the order for possession and the refusal of the stay of execution the Maloneys and their caravans left the recreation ground. The family gave notice of appeal to the Court of Appeal apparently "for...ventilating the article 8 issue." Tactically this was a misuse both of public (legal aid) money and of court time on a point rendered moot as an appellate court would have no power to order Leeds to permit the Maloneys and their caravans to re-enter the recreation ground, trespassers again as they had been before. No one found any legal argument for any money compensation either.

...It was common ground that the Article did not give any protection to the occupation of land or a building unless the land or building is the occupier's "home". If a traveller with his caravan enters as a trespasser upon a piece of land, by what process does the small area of land on which he happens to station his caravan and, presumably, a few square yards surrounding that small area of land, become identified as his "home"? If a homeless person enters an unoccupied building, places his few possessions in one of the rooms and spends the next night or two there, does the room become his "home" in relation to which he is entitled to an article 8 "right of respect"? The answer must, I think, be 'No'. It is clearly possible for a trespasser to establish a "home" in property that belongs to someone else but whether and when he has done so must be matters of degree. In Buckley v United Kingdom (1996) the Strasbourg commission (para 63), said that
"whether or not a particular habitation constitutes a 'home' which attracts the protection of article 8(1) will depend on the factual circumstances, namely, the existence of sufficient and continuous links."

It could not credibly be suggested that in the two days between the entry by the Maloneys on the recreation ground and the commencement by Leeds of possession proceedings the Maloneys had established "sufficient and continuous links" with the piece of land on which their caravan stood so as to constitute that singular piece of land their article 8(1) "home".