[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Edward Mardigian

ilding. In recognition of the family foundation's generosity, the building's lobby was named the Edward Mardigian Memorial Lobby. "We have always believed in sharing," Helen Mardigian said in announcing the gift. "We have always wanted to do something for the Hospital. Edward would be very pleased."

Hospital waiting area
Funded by a $1 million donation from the Edward Mardigian Family, the Mardigian Family Surgery Center at the Royal Oak Beaumont Hospital provides a comfortable and bright waiting
area for family members. The area features a children's playroom and a business center with computer access and health care information. To enhance patient privacy, coaster pagers, similar to those used in restaurants, summon waiting family members to the postsurgery consultation with the surgeon.

Art, culture and history
Opened in 1979, the Edward and Helen Mardigian Museum of Armenian Art and History of Jerusalem is located in a 200-year-old building that once housed the Armenian Patriarchate's Theological Seminary. Closed over many years, it reopened in 2023. The museum presents a picturesque overview of Armenian history, religion and cultural heritage.

Exhibits include historical and religious artifacts, many brought to Jerusalem by pilgrims, including hand-woven rugs, a collection of Armenian coins, huge copper cauldrons crafted by Armenian smiths, colorful tiles from the world-famous Kütahya district, and a map of the ancient world printed in Armenian. There is also a replica of Gutenberg's original printing press, the first to be established in Jerusalem in 1833.

Awards
The Armenian Students' Association of America awarded Mr. Mardigian the Sarafian Award for Good Citizenship in 1986.

References

External links
Origins of the Armenian Assembly of America
Engagement Announcement, Siran Hovnanian and Robert Mardigian, New York Times, July 19, 1981
Mardigian Donates $875,000 to the University of Michigan
Mardigian Foundation donates $3,000,000 to the University of Michigan
Mardigian Foundation donates $3,000,000 to the University of Michigan
Edward Mardigian Family Surgery Center, Royal Oak Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak, MI
Past recipients of the Armenian Professional Society Grant
Armenian Museum of Art and History - Jerusalem

American people of Armenian descent
Emigrants from the Ottoman Empire to the United States
Armenians from the Ottoman Empire
Armenian engineers
20th-century American engineers
Engineers from Istanbul
Wayne State University alumni
1907 births
1993 deaths
Detroit Institute of Technology alumni