[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Thomas C. Durant

n to allow female students to attend lectures and examinations at Columbia College. (Other prominent signers included Susan B. Anthony, Caroline Sterling Choate, Chauncey M. Depew, Parke Godwin, Emma Lazarus, Josephine Shaw Lowell, Theodore Roosevelt, Georgina Schuyler, and Charles Comfort Tiffany.)

Death
Durant died in Warren County, New York, on October 5, 1885. He is buried in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York.

Legacy and honors
 Durant, Iowa, was named after him.
 Additionally, he endowed that eastern Iowa community with several hundred dollars to establish the first school there; today, the school is also named after him.
 He achieved the construction of a wooden railroad bridge in 1856, the first to cross the Mississippi River.
 Durant, Polk County, Nebraska, is an unincorporated community in the United States that was established when the Union Pacific Railroad was extended to that point, during the building of the First transcontinental railroad.
 In 1870, Durant was elected a Fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers.

In popular culture
 John Marston portrayed Durant in the film Union Pacific (1939).
 Forrest Fyre portrayed Durant in the mini-series, Into the West (2005), in episode 4, "Hell On Wheels".
 Colm Meaney portrayed a fictionalized version of Durant, who is a main character, in the AMC television program Hell on Wheels. The series portrayed the UP's construction of the eastern portion of the First Transcontinental Railroad. Additionally, Virginia Madsen played a fictionalized version of Hannah Durant, in the second season.
 Eric Rolland portrayed Durant in The American West.
Durant's family life is fictionalized in the novel Imaginary Brightness: a Durant Family Saga.
 The A&E and Netflix original program Longmire takes place in the fictional town of Durant, Wyoming.

References

Further reading
Ambrose, Stephen (2000) Nothing Like it in the World: The Men Who Built the Transcontinental Railroad 1863–1869. Simon and Schuster. 
Myers, Sheila (2015) Imaginary Brightness: a Durant Family Saga. Createspace Publishing.

External links
 
 
 
Durant Family Story

1820 births
1885 deaths
19th-century American railroad executives
Albany Medical College alumni
American financiers
Burials at Green-Wood Cemetery
Businesspeople from Massachusetts
People from Lee, Massachusetts
Physicians from Massachusetts
Union Pacific Railroad people
People of the American Old West