[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 92nd Illinois Infantry Regiment

nessee through several passes. He sent each corps to a separate pass to take. Bragg made two failed attempts to attack Rosecrans in detail between September 9 and 12 that were bungled by his subordinates. Their failure actually helped keep Rosecrans unaware of how vulnerable his dispersion left him.

While Bragg was trying to put together his attacks on Rosecrans's separated forces, Wilder's brigade had been probing southeast ahead of Crittenden's corps. Wilder's brigade took the advance of Crittenden's corps, moving toward Ringgold at dawn 11 September. The 92nd Illinois and a section of mountain howitzers led the movement one mile in advance of the main body of the brigade. Before reaching Ringgold at 13:00, the 92nd ran into 500 troopers of Scott's Brigade, Pegram's Division, Forrest's Corps of Confederate cavalry, deployed in an L-shaped ambush with the blocking part perpendicular to the Union advance and part the enfilading part along the left side of the road.

The 92nd dismounted and moved forward. Atkins put the Spencer rifle-armed F Company on the left and another Spencer rifle company, E Company, forward as skirmishers. Wilder came forward, sending the 17th Indiana to flank Scott's right, and put a section of Lilly's battery in support. As the brigade prepared for an attack, skirmishers of the 8th Kentucky and 51st Ohio of Brigadier General Horatio Van Cleve's division of Crittenden's corps joined the fight, forcing Scott to pull back to Ringgold, leaving thirteen Confederate dead. Atkins lost six horses and three men wounded, the only casualties sustained by the brigade. The brigade pushed on through Ringgold, where Atkins and the 92nd Illinois departed the brigade.

The 92nd's integration into the brigade was challenging as the transfer occurred during a lull in the action, but not a long enough pause for its complete assimilation. The regiment was behind the rest of the brigade in arming and outfitting, and it was not fully armed with Spencers prior to the battle of Chickamauga. Additionally, Hoover's Gap had been a defining day that had such a team-building effect on Wilder's brigade that the 92nd's joining the brigade after the battle meant some soldiers in the brigade viewed the 92nd as lesser members of the brigade. One wrote that the men of the 92nd lacked “the pride of Indianans” and had to be pulled from their place in column due to their incompetence dealing with guerrillas on the Cumberland Plateau. This criticism, along with Atkins' prior difficulties with the chain of command, is also significant in light of the missions assigned to the 92nd for it would be detached from the brigade three times in the next thirty days.

The 92nd's conduct in their first engagement with the brigade north of Ringgold on 11 September should have erased any worry's about its abilities. It led the brigade's march column, met the enemy and deployed well by all accounts. Atkins demonstrated complete control of the situation, and Wilder called his action a “gallant attack.”

Chickamauga campaign 

During the Chickamauga battle, the regiment was again detached from the brigade to secure Dyer and Dry Valley Roads between the Corps and Chattanooga while the rest of the brigade took part in Gen. Reynolds' Division of Gen. Thomas' Corps. The howitzer section of Lilly's Battery was sent with them. The 92nd remained in the rear during the brigade's mauling of the Rebels at Alexander's Bridge on September 18.

While the rest of the brigade had been busy in West Viniard Field stopping McNair's Brigade and Robertson's's Texas Brigade, the 92nd had been brought forward from Pond Springs by Gen. Reynolds to make an attack to assist Colonel Edward King's brigade, which was being overwhelmed in the woods just east of the Brotherton Field. There, the regiment had its hands full slowing down an onslaught of four Confederate regiments of Tennessee and Texas troops up Brotherton Road to Lafayette. King's rattled brigade was already being overwhelmed in the woods just east of the Brotherton Field. The 92nd, with their superior firepower, successfully stopped the Confederates   King's brigade had already fallen back, and had taken many of the 92nd's horses in their flight up Dyer Road. Atkins could not find General Reynolds, so he withdrew his men and their remaining horses
from the field and moved to link up with Wilder and the rest of the brigade.  In their action at the Brotherton Field, Atkins and his men stopped the Rebels but  lost twenty-five killed and wounded in addition to losing one of the howitzers.

Later that night, the 92nd rejoined their brigade on its left flank. For the second day in a row, members of the brigade men had helped save the Army of the Cumberland from total disaster: the 92nd at Brotherton Field and the rest of the brigade at Viniard Field.