[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Thiago Silva

to be eliminated from the Champions League but in the 114th minute, Silva atoned for his error with a towering header to beat Thibaut Courtois to help PSG advance to the next stage. Silva was voted by several media sources as the best player in the match as he produced an extraordinary performance.

PSG finally took pole position in the league after their 2–3 win over Marseille; Silva was dominant in his duels and played a crucial role in the victory. Three days later, he was voted man of the match in a 4–1 victory against Saint-Étienne in the Coupe de France semi-final. On 11 April, Silva captained the club to a 4–0 win in the Coupe de la Ligue final against Bastia. Four days later, Silva suffered an injury in the 20th minute of PSG's quarterfinal against Barcelona. He was ruled out for two weeks as PSG were comprehensively beaten 1–5 on aggregate by Barça. Upon his return in a 3–1 win against Metz, Silva had a comfortable performance as PSG moved closer to the title. After an incredible 6–0 win against Guingamp which edged the club closer to the first possible French domestic treble, Silva claimed that this PSG side was the best he had ever played in. One week later, PSG clinched the Ligue 1 title in a hard-fought 2–1 away win at Montpellier; Silva was voted man of the match and he was hailed for marking out Lucas Barrios. In the final match of the season, Silva was rated as the best player on the pitch in PSG's 3–2 win against Reims. For the third consecutive season, Silva was voted by his peers into the Ligue 1 Team of the Year. Silva was also selected in Opta's Ligue 1 Team of the Season based on statistical merit.

2015–2020: Sustained domestic success, European final

After playing in the 2015 Copa América, Silva finally returned to club training on 20 July in New Jersey. The first pre-season match that Silva played in was the final match of the 2015 International Champions Cup against Manchester United, where PSG won 2–0 to win the trophy; Silva was rated as the best player in the match. Two days later, Silva captained PSG to a 2–0 victory in the 2015 Trophée des Champions against Lyon. Silva had a good match with little to do defensively, as Lyon's star striker Alexandre Lacazette played an insignificant role in the match.

PSG began their league campaign with a 1–0 victory against Lille, playing with ten-men for two-thirds of the match. Silva had a superb display, leading the defence to a hard-fought clean sheet. His performance was described as dominant, showcasing his intelligence and athleticism throughout the match. On 8 May 2018, he played as PSG won 2–0 against Les Herbiers VF to clinch the 2017–18 Coupe de France.

In April 2020, PSG were awarded the 2019–20 Ligue 1 title after the season was ended prematurely due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic; at the time of the League's suspension, PSG were in first place, with a twelve–point lead over second–placed Marseille. This was Silva's record seventh Ligue 1 title with the club, which saw him equal the all–time individual record of most Ligue 1 title victories, along with his club teammate Marco Verratti, which was jointly held by Hervé Revelli and Jean-Michel Larqué of Saint-Étienne, as well as Grégory Coupet, Juninho and Sidney Govou of Lyon. On 13 June, PSG's sporting director Leonardo revealed that Thiago Silva would be leaving the club at the end of the Champions League campaign in August, alongside his teammate Edinson Cavani. PSG completed a domestic treble, while his last competitive match for PSG was the 2020 UEFA Champions League Final on 23 August, which PSG lost 1–0 to Bayern Munich. However, Silva became the first Brazilian to start a Champions League Final as a captain.

Chelsea

2020–21: Debut season and European glory

On 28 August 2020, Silva joined Premier League club Chelsea on a one-year deal with an option for a second. He made his debut for the club on 23 September, in a 6–0 home win over Barnsley in the third round of the EFL Cup. Three days later on 26 September, Silva made his Premier League debut in a 3–3 draw against West Bromwich Albion at The Hawthorns as captain. On 7 November, Silva scored his first goal for Chelsea in a 4–1 home league win over Sheffield United. On 21 December, Silva scored his second goal for Chelsea in a 3–0 victory over West Ham.

On 3 April 2021, Silva received a second yellow card and got sent off in the 29th minute in Chelsea's 5–2 home defeat to West Bromwich Albion. Silva led the defence as Chelsea reached its third Champions League final, defeating Real Madrid in the semi-finals. On 29 May, Silva went off injured in the 39th minute while he won his first-ever Champions League trophy after Chelsea's 1–0 victory against Manchester City in the 2021 UEFA Champions League Final at the Estádio do Dragão.

On 4 June 2021, Chelsea announced the extension of his contract for another year, keeping him at the club until June 2022.

2021–23: 100 Champions League appearances