[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Senate (Antigua and Barbuda)

The Senate is the Upper House of Parliament of Antigua and Barbuda. It consists of 17 members appointed by the Governor General. Ten members are appointed on the advice of the Prime Minister, four on the advice of the Leader of the Opposition, one on the advice of the Barbuda Council, one resident of Barbuda on the advice of the Prime Minister, and one at the Governor General's discretion. Subject to the provisions of Section 30 of the Constitution, any person who at the time of his appointment: is a citizen; is twenty-one years of age or older; has lived in Antigua and Barbuda for the twelve months immediately prior to the date of his appointment; and is able to speak and, unless disabled by blindness or another physical condition, to read the English language with enough proficiency to allow him to take an active part in the proceedings.

Every Senator must resign from the Senate in the following situations: at the next dissolution of Parliament after being appointed; if he is nominated with his consent to run for the House of Representatives; if he loses citizenship; if he is absent from Senate proceedings for the period or periods and under the conditions specified by the Senate's rules of procedure; if any circumstances arise that, if he were not a Senator, would make him ineligible for appointment as such under subsection (1) of section 30 of the Constitution or under any law passed in accordance with subsection (2) of that section, subject to the provisions of subsection (2) of section 31; if the Governor-General, acting in accordance with the advice of the Prime Minister in the case of a Senator appointed pursuant to that advice, the Leader of the Opposition in the case of a Senator appointed pursuant to that advice, the Barbuda Council in the case of a Senator appointed pursuant to that advice, or in his discretion in the case of a Senator appointed by him in his discretion; or if after being appointed in accordance with section 28(6) of the Constitution, he no longer resides in Barbuda.

The Governor-General may appoint a person qualified for appointment as a Senator to be temporarily a member of the Senate during such absence, suspension, or illness whenever a Senator is unable to perform his or her duties as a Senator due to absence from Antigua and Barbuda, suspension under section 31(2) of the Constitution, or due to illness. The provisions of Section 31 of the Constitution shall apply to a Senator appointed under this Section in the same manner as they do to a Senator appointed under Section 28 of the Constitution, and an appointment made under this Section shall in any event cease to have effect if the person appointed is notified by the Governor-General that the circumstances giving rise to his appointment have ceased to exist. 

The  President of the Senate is Senator the Hon. Alincia Williams-Grant, with Senator the Hon. Osbert Richard Frederick serving as Deputy President.

Any bill other than a money bill may be introduced in either House of Parliament; a money bill cannot be introduced in the Senate.

Members of the Senate
The following are the current members of the Antigua and Barbuda Senate.

See also
 President of the Senate of Antigua and Barbuda
 Parliament of Antigua and Barbuda
 Politics of Antigua and Barbuda
 House of Representatives of Antigua and Barbuda
 List of legislatures by country

References

Antigua
Government of Antigua and Barbuda