[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Audrey Flack

turb or crowd the pictorial space, which are often composed as table-top still lives. Flack often brings in actual accounts of history into her photorealist paintings, such as World War II' (Vanitas) and Kennedy Motorcade.  Women were frequently the subject of her photo-realist paintings.

Sculpture

Audrey Flack's sculpture is often overlooked in light of her better-known Photorealist paintings. In The New Civic Art: An Interview with Audrey Flack, Flack discusses the fact that she is self-taught in sculpture. She incorporates religion and mythology into her sculpture rather than the historical or everyday subjects of her paintings. Her sculptures often demonstrate a connection to the female form, including a series of diverse, heroic women and goddess figures.  These depictions of women differ from those of traditional femininity, but rather are athletic, older, and strong. As Flack describes them: "they are real yet idealized... the 'goddesses in everywoman.'"

In the early 1990s, Flack was commissioned by a group called Friends of Queen Catherine to create a monumental bronze statue of Catherine of Braganza, in whose honor the borough of Queens is named. The statue, which would have been roughly the height of a nine-story building, was meant to be installed on the East River shore in the Hunters Point area of Long Island City, across from the United Nations. The project was never fully realized, however, as protestors in the mid-late 1990s objected to Queen Catherine's ties to the Transatlantic Slave Trade. (Others objected to the statue of a monarch overlooking a Revolutionary War battleground.) Flack nevertheless remained dedicated to the project, and notes that she endeavored to depict Catherine as biracial, reflecting her Portuguese background and paying homage to the ethnic diversity of the borough of Queens.

Further reading
 Baskind, Samantha, Jewish Artists and the Bible in Twentieth-Century America,Philadelphia, PA, Penn State University Press, 2014, 
 Flack, Audrey, Thalia Gouma-Peterson, and Patricia Hills. Breaking the Rules: Audrey Flack, a Retrospective 1950-1990. New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1992.
 Mattison, Robert S., Audrey Flack: The Abstract Expressionist Years , New York, Hollis Taggart Galleries, 2015,  .
 Flack, Audrey, Art & Soul: Notes on Creating, New York, Dutton, 1986,

References

External links
 
 https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smithsonian-institution/stand-aside-old-masters-feminist-artist-cultivating-her-old-mistress-legacy-180978318/
"Audrey Flack: Breaking the Rules" 
Audrey Flack in the Indianapolis Museum of Art
Audrey Flack in National Gallery of Victoria 
Audrey Flack exhibition, the Guggenheim Museum
My Portrait of Anwar Sadat by Audrey Flack, Archives of American Art Blog, Smithsonian Institution
Oral history interview with Audrey Flack, 2009 Feb. 16, Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution
Audrey Flack Biography: Hollis Taggart Galleries

20th-century American painters
21st-century American painters
Feminist artists
Yale University alumni
New York University Institute of Fine Arts alumni
1931 births
Living people
University of Pennsylvania staff
Painters from New York (state)
20th-century American sculptors
20th-century American women artists
21st-century American women artists
American women printmakers
20th-century American printmakers
American women painters
The High School of Music & Art alumni
Photorealist artists
Sculptors from New York (state)