[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2nd Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

p's Hill and entrenched for the rest of the battle. Although the 2nd Wisconsin was able to replenish some of its losses, it was never the same fighting force again.  It later served in the Bristoe and Mine Run campaigns.  The final campaign for the 2nd Wisconsin was Grant's bloody Overland Campaign.

With the regiment's original three-year enlistments expiring on June 11, 1864, those who chose not to re-enlist were sent back to Madison, with the final company mustering out on July 2, 1864.  Newer recruits and re-enlisted veterans were restructured into a battalion of two companies, first under the command of Captain Dennis B. Dailey, then under Lt. Albert T. Morgan, and finally Lt. Henry Naegly.  The battalion participated in the Siege of Petersburg—suffering several more casualties during that campaign—until they were ultimately consolidated into the 6th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment on November 30, 1864.

Total enlistments and casualties
The 2nd Wisconsin Infantry initially mustered 1,051 men and later recruited an additional 152 men, for a total of 1,203 men.
The regiment lost 10 officers and 228 enlisted men killed in action or who later died of their wounds, plus another 77 enlisted men who died of disease, for a total of 315 fatalities.

Commanders
 Colonel S. Park Coon (April 24, 1861July 30, 1861) resigned.
 Colonel Edgar O'Connor (August 3, 1861August 28, 1862) was killed in action at Gainesville, Virginia, during the Second Battle of Bull Run.
 Colonel Lucius Fairchild (September 8, 1862October 20, 1863) began the war as captain of Co. K, 1st Wisconsin Infantry, and joined the 2nd Wisconsin Infantry as major.  He lost an arm at Gettysburg and was promoted to brigadier general by President Lincoln.  After the war he became the first three-term governor of Wisconsin and, later, was appointed U.S. Minister to Spain.
 Colonel John Mansfield (February 9, 1864August 14, 1864) began the war as captain of Co. G.  Mustered out with the regiment as Colonel.  Later became the 15th lieutenant governor of California.

Notable people
 Thomas S. Allen was captain of Co. I and later colonel of the 5th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.  He received an honorary brevet to brigadier general. After the war he was elected Secretary of State of Wisconsin.
 Allen S. Baker was a private in Co. H and was wounded at Gettysburg.  After the war he became a Wisconsin state legislator.
 Melvin Baldwin was enlisted in Co. E and was wounded at Gainesville.  Later he was detached as chief of the division's ambulance corps, he returned to the regiment and was later commissioned captain of Co. E.  He was captured by the enemy at Gettysburg and was a prisoner of war for 18 months.  After the war he became a U.S. congressman from Minnesota.
 Joseph Bock was a private in Co. C and was wounded at Gainesville.  After the war he became a Wisconsin state legislator.
 Gabriel Bouck was captain of Co. E and later colonel of the 18th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment. After the war he became a U.S. congressman and Speaker of the Wisconsin State Assembly.
 Norton J. Field was sergeant and later 1st sergeant in Co. F.  After the war he became a Wisconsin state legislator.
 William H. Harries enlisted in Co. B and was wounded at Antietam.  Later he was commissioned as 2nd lieutenant and promoted to 1st lieutenant of that same company.  After the war he became a U.S. congressman from Minnesota.
 Henry B. Harshaw enlisted in Co. E and was commissioned 2nd lieutenant of the company in March 1863.  He lost his left arm at the Battle of Chaffin's Farm.  After the war he was elected State Treasurer of Wisconsin.
 George M. Humphrey was enlisted in Co. H and was wounded at First Bull Run.  Later he was commissioned as 1st lieutenant of Co. H.  After the war he was Speaker of the Nebraska House of Representatives.
 John Johnson was a private in Co. D, but served most of the war detached to the 4th U.S. Artillery, Battery B.  He received the Medal of Honor for actions at the Antietam and Fredericksburg, where he lost his right arm.  
 David McKee was captain of Co. C, and was later commissioned lieutenant colonel of the 15th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.  He was killed at the Battle of Stones River.
 Fordyce R. Melvin was a private in Co. D and was wounded at First Bull Run.  He later re-enlisted with the 24th New York Infantry Regiment. After the war he became a Wisconsin state legislator.
 Albert T. Morgan was 1st lieutenant in Co. A and later a captain in the independent battalion, and was captain of Co. H in the 6th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment after that regiment absorbed the independent battalion.  After the war he worked to enfranchise freedmen in Mississippi during Reconstruction, but was chased out of the state by White terrorism in the 1870s.  He later wrote a memoir of his experiences.
 Patrick Henry Ray was a private in Co. K but was transferred to the 1st Wisconsin Heavy Artillery Regiment in December 1861.  He rose to the rank of captain in the 1st Wiscon