[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Russian cruiser Zhemchug

mmander-in-chief of the Allied Fleet, Commander Cherkassov had given most of his crew shore leave, and left the ship with all torpedoes disarmed, and all shells locked away save for 12 rounds stowed on deck with only five rounds of ready ammunition were permitted for each gun with a sixth chambered.

On 28 October 1914, Commander Cherkassov was at the Eastern & Oriental Hotel in George Town with a lady friend. The remaining crew were having a party on board rather than keeping watch. The German light cruiser  was disguised as a British warship and pulled alongside Zhemchug at a distance of . At that range, Emden raised the Imperial German naval flag, launched a torpedo, and opened fire with her 10.5 cm guns. The torpedo hit near the aft funnel, blowing off the fantail of the cruiser and destroying the aft guns. To their credit, Zhemchugs crew managed to load and return fire with the front guns, but missed the German raider and struck a merchant ship in the harbor instead. Emden turned around and fired a second torpedo that struck the burning Zhemchug at the conning tower, causing a tremendous explosion that tore the ship apart. By the time the smoke cleared, Zhemchug had already slipped beneath the waves, her masts the only parts of the ship still above water. Cherkassov watched helplessly from shore as his cruiser was sunk. The sinking of Zhemchug killed 81 Russian sailors and wounded 129, of whom seven later died of their injuries. Emden afterwards sank the  which concluded the Battle of Penang.

A court-martial held in Vladivostok found Commander Cherkassov guilty of gross negligence and sentenced him to 3.5 years in prison. His executive officer, Lieutenant Kulibin, was sentenced to 18 months. In addition, both officers were stripped of their rank and decorations and were degraded from nobility to become commoners. The sentences were later commuted to 18 months by Tsar Nicholas II as sending to the front as ordinary seamen, where both men later distinguished themselves in combat and were decorated with the Cross of St. George.

The bodies of 82 crewmen were buried in Penang; the other seven bodies were never recovered. The ship's  guns were salvaged by the Russian cruiser  in December 1914. In the 1920s, the ship was partially raised and scrapped by British experts.

Legacy

A total of 12 Russian sailors are buried on Penang and Jerejak. The monument honouring the sailors of Zhemchug was twice renovated by Soviet sailors on 1972 and 1987 respectively. The battle was mentioned numerous times by Vladimir Putin on his 2003 presidential visit to Malaysia. The Russian embassy in Malaysia holds memorial services twice annually in honour of the fallen sailors.

References

Bibliography

External links

Izumrud-class cruisers
Cruisers of the Imperial Russian Navy
Russo-Japanese War cruisers of Russia
World War I cruisers of Russia
Shipwrecks in the Strait of Malacca
Naval ships of Russia
1903 ships
Maritime incidents in October 1914
World War I shipwrecks in the Indian Ocean
Ships built at Sredne-Nevskiy Shipyard