[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Third Generation (1979 film)

The Third Generation () is a 1979 West German film, a black comedy about terrorism, written and directed by Rainer Werner Fassbinder. The plot follows an ineffectual cell of underground terrorists who plan to kidnap an industrialist.

Plot
P.J. Lurz, an industrialist with an office in a Berlin high-rise, informs his American headquarters that the company has difficulty selling its security-related computer systems to the West German government in Bonn. Nevertheless, Lurz has hatched a secret plan to boost sales. Meanwhile, Susanne, Lurz's secretary, receives a phone call with the message "The world as will and idea". This is a code phrase among a secret group of thirty-something middle-class leftists and would-be terrorists to which she belongs. The phrase has been taken from the central work of the German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer, The World as Will and Representation. With these words, Susanne sets an ambiguous covert plot into motion, alerting the members of the terrorist cell of an upcoming meeting. They are: August Brem, the ringleader; Susanne's composer husband Edgar; feminist history professor Hilde Krieger; Petra Vielhabor, a housewife who is constantly arguing with her banker husband Hans; and Rudolf Mann, a clerk in a record store.

P.J. Lurz is informed by Gerhard Gast, the inspector-general of the police, that he is being watched and is under police protection. Gast has also arrived to pick up Susanne, his daughter-in-law. En route to their home, Susanne and Gerhard stop at a hotel room and have sex. They have been carrying on an affair with sado-masochistic undertones. The Gast family has dinner together: Gerhard, Susanne, her husband Edgar, the caustic grandfather, the delusional pianist grandmother, and the young couple's small son. During dinner Grandpa Gast tells Edgar that every generation needs a war.

The terrorists gather at Rudolf's large apartment, but August is annoyed by the presence of Rudolf's roommate Ilse Hoffman, a drug addict. August sees her as a threat to their secret activities. Bored and with not much to do, the group spend their time playing Monopoly. They eagerly await the arrival of a new contact. His name is Paul; he arrives from training camps in Africa where he has gained experience. Paul is assigned to live with Hilde. He rapes her; however, by the following day they have become a couple.

August Brem, the leader among the terrorists, is in fact a double agent. He is secretly in contact with Lurz, who wants to boost sales of his security computers by financing the terrorist group. Rudolf's apartment serves as the terrorist headquarters and meeting point. Claiming domestic abuse, Petra leaves her husband and decides to stay with Rudolf. The group of terrorists is completed with the arrival of two friends of Ilse. One is her former boyfriend, Franz Walsh, a beefy black German who is an explosives expert recently discharged from the military. The other is his friend Bernhard von Stein, an aristocrat whose fondness for the works of Bakunin makes him the object of jokes. Franz fails to find a job, but reconnects with his drug addict girlfriend Ilse.

August gives out paper squares to the group, some of which bear a mark and some not. Petra, Rudolf and Hilde receive those with the marks; they must break into an office at night in order to steal the new identities. Rudolf is so scared that he pees in his pants and the others laugh at him. The joke is short-lived because Franz finds Ilse dead of a drug overdose.

The tension among the conspirators gets even worse when Paul is gunned down by the authorities at a restaurant. Edgar witnesses his death and sees his father, Officer Gast, at the scene. Paul's death scares the members of his gang. In order to finance their activities, Petra and some of the other terrorists rob the very bank in which Petra's husband works. While they are escaping, Petra shoots and kills her husband. They frantically change their looks and names and flee from their homes.