[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jason Puncheon

e his loan spell into a permanent move, for a fee of around £1.75m. Puncheon's three goals in January and a further three in back-to-back wins in April that lifted Palace away from the relegation zone, led boss Tony Pulis to issue a 'hands off' warning to other clubs interesting in signing Puncheon.

On 16 August 2014, in Palace's first match of the new season away to Arsenal, Puncheon took a corner which was headed in by Brede Hangeland for the first goal of the game. He was sent off for his second booking in the 89th minute, after which Arsenal scored their winning goal. On 17 January 2015, Puncheon scored his third goal of the season and second in as many games against Burnley in a 3–2 away win. Crystal Palace had come from 2 goals down to claim victory to boost their survival hopes. Palace manager Alan Pardew praised Puncheon's performance, describing him as "the best player on the pitch by a country mile".

On 6 April 2015, Puncheon scored the winning goal for Crystal Palace against Manchester City. Puncheon's goal came from a freekick which went past Manchester City's goalkeeper Joe Hart. He opened the scoring in the 2016 FA Cup Final against Manchester United with a goal in the 78th minute, but Palace went on to lose the match 2–1 after extra time.

On 18 July 2017, Puncheon replaced Scott Dann as captain. In January 2018, manager Roy Hodgson announced that Puncheon would play no further part in the 2017–18 season following a cruciate ligament injury sustained while playing against Manchester City.

In May 2019, Crystal Palace issued a statement that Puncheon would leave the club at the end of the 2018–19 season after having made 169 appearances and scored 16 goals.

Loan to Huddersfield Town
On 4 January 2019, Puncheon signed for Premier League club Huddersfield Town on loan until the end of the season.

Cyprus
In August 2019, Puncheon completed a move to Cypriot football with First Division side Pafos. After three seasons with the club, he moved to Anorthosis Famagusta, where he spent one season before retiring.

Managerial career
Puncheon was appointed head coach of Cypriot Second Division club Peyia 2014 ahead of the 2023-24 season.

Personal life
Puncheon is of Jamaican descent and is eligible for the Jamaica national football team.

In December 2017, Puncheon was arrested and charged with possession of an offensive weapon, common assault, and a public order offence of "causing fear or provocation of violence" after a fight outside a nightclub in Reigate. On 5 January 2018, Puncheon appeared in court where he denied the charge of assault. The charge of possessing an offensive weapon was withdrawn and he was bailed to appear again in court on 4 June. He later changed his plea to guilty and was given a community order requiring him to carry out 210 hours of unpaid work, and pay the doorman involved £250 compensation.

Career statistics

Honours
Southampton
Football League One runner-up: 2010–11

Crystal Palace
FA Cup runner-up: 2015–16

Individual
PFA Team of the Year: 2007–08 League Two, 2009–10 League One

References

External links

1986 births
Living people
Footballers from Croydon
English men's footballers
Men's association football wingers
English expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Cyprus
English expatriate sportspeople in Cyprus
Wimbledon F.C. players
Milton Keynes Dons F.C. players
Fisher Athletic F.C. players
Lewes F.C. players
Barnet F.C. players
Plymouth Argyle F.C. players
Southampton F.C. players
Millwall F.C. players
Blackpool F.C. players
Queens Park Rangers F.C. players
Crystal Palace F.C. players
Huddersfield Town A.F.C. players
Pafos FC players
Anorthosis Famagusta FC players
English Football League players
Isthmian League players
National League (English football) players
Premier League players
Cypriot First Division players
Black British sportsmen
English people of Jamaican descent
English people convicted of assault