[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Interesting Drug

atures a cameo of a copy of Moby Dick as well as a reference to Morrissey favorite Charles Hawtrey in the fictional Hawtrey high school the boys attended. 

The words "Bad people on the right" were written on a wall during one scene, which Morrissey said "would apply to the Conservative government."

The video prompted controversy and was banned by the BBC for a period. It eventually appeared on Top of the Pops, but only after the word "rise" was changed to "right" and the seal scene was omitted.

Critical reception
Edwin Pouncey in NME gave a positive review, saying the song was a "finely crafted pop single", while also commenting, "I still ache with a longing to know just what Morrissey's minions see in the man, what special stardust quality does he possess to endear him so closely to their palpitating hearts". Fellow NME writer Stuart Maconie spoke similarly in his review of Bona Drag, writing, Interesting Drug' is no classic but it is quite sprightly and does contain that drumbeat in full."

In a retrospective review, Ned Raggett of AllMusic called the song "a vicious slam on the long-loathed by him Tory government and a sometimes slightly too breathless musical and singing rush". The same site's Dave Thompson praised MacColl's "delightful vocal melody" as well as the song's "lyric that apparently muses on the power trips enjoyed by those people positioned to save their own skins by ruining people's lives. Spin named it Morrissey's 13th best solo song, writing, "He may have intended it as another shot at his much-loathed Tories, but it fits just fine for ethically bankrupt villains of other eras too."

"Interesting Drug" did see acclaim from other musicians at the time. The Durutti Column guitarist and former Morrissey collaborator Vini Reilly listed it first on his list of all-time favorite records. Chas Smash of Madness named it his favorite Morrissey song, stating, "Morrissey is a most interesting drug, curiously tasty."

Live performances
Morrissey first performed the song live at his infamous debut solo concert at Wolverhampton's Civic Hall on 22 December 1988, alongside Rourke, Joyce, and Gannon. The song was unreleased at the time. Their performance of the Smiths song "Sweet and Tender Hooligan" from that night would appear on the 12-inch single of "Interesting Drug". It was also performed in 1991 and 1992 and three times in the autumn of 2007.

Track listings
7-inch vinyl

12-inch one-sided etched vinyl (HMV 12POPS1621)

12-inch vinyl, compact disc and cassette

Personnel
 Morrissey – vocals
 Kirsty MacColl – backing vocals
 Craig Gannon – guitar
 Neil Taylor – guitar
 Andy Rourke – bass guitar
 Stephen Street – keyboard
 Mike Joyce – drums

Release history

Charts

References

Morrissey songs
1989 singles
1989 songs
His Master's Voice singles
Song recordings produced by Stephen Street
Songs about drugs
Songs written by Morrissey
Songs written by Stephen Street