[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert H. Milroy

after ten months he was relieved of any culpability for the debacle.

During the attack on Winchester, Milroy's horse was hit by an exploding shell. He was thrown from the saddle and bruised his left hip in the process, but did not seek any medical attention and instead merely mounted another horse.

After this period of inactivity, Milroy was transferred to the Western Theater, recruiting for Maj. Gen. George Henry Thomas's Army of the Cumberland in Nashville in the spring of 1864. Much like in western Virginia, Milroy gained a reputation for his harsh treatment of civilians and frequent banishments and public executions of those who expressed pro-Confederate sympathies. He also commanded the Defenses of the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad in the Department of the Cumberland until the end of the war. Although it was not anticipated that this would be a combat assignment, he fought briefly in the Third Battle of Murfreesboro, part of the Franklin-Nashville Campaign in 1864. Anxious to reduce some of the stigma of Winchester, he ordered the 13th Indiana Cavalry to make a mounted charge directly at an enemy artillery position, assuming that it was only a portion of Maj. Gen. Nathan Bedford Forrest's dismounted cavalry. The Hoosiers suffered heavy casualties. When Milroy realized that he was facing not cavalry, but an infantry division of Maj. Gen. Benjamin F. Cheatham's corps, he returned to the safety of "Fortress Rosecrans" in Murfreesboro. The following day General Lovell H. Rousseau, commander of all Union forces in the Murfreesboro area, reinforced Milroy with two infantry brigades.  Milroy attacked and routed the combined Confederate infantry and cavalry.  The battle was "well conducted by Maj. Gen. Milroy" in the words of General Rousseau. Milroy resigned his commission on July 26, 1865.

Postbellum career
After the war, Milroy was a trustee of the Wabash and Erie Canal Company and, from 1872 to 1875, he was the superintendent of Indian Affairs in the Washington Territory and an Indian agent for the following ten years. During this time he was active in ensuring that the aging Yakama chief, Kamiakin, would not be evicted from his ancestral land by area ranchers.

Not long after the war ended, Milroy began suffering extensive pain from his hip injury at Winchester which worsened as he got older, eventually impairing his mobility and requiring him to use a cane. Doctors diagnosed his condition as chronic inflammation of the ligaments around the hip joint. Milroy died from heart failure in Olympia, Washington on May 29, 1890, and is buried in the Masonic Memorial Park at Tumwater, Washington.

He was the author of Papers of General Robert Huston Milroy, published posthumously in 1965 and 1966.

Commemoration
Milroy is the namesake of the city of Milroy, Minnesota.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)
White Top, on which Fort Milroy — named for the General — was emplaced.

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands, Stanford University Press, 2001, .
 Fremantle, Arthur Lyon, Three Months in the Southern States: April–June 1863, New York: John Bradburn, 1864.
 Sword, Wiley, The Confederacy's Last Hurrah: Spring Hill, Franklin, and Nashville, University Press of Kansas, 1992, .
 Warner, Ezra J., Generals in Blue: Lives of the Union Commanders, Louisiana State University Press, 1964, .

Further reading
 Grunder, Charles S. and Brandon H. Beck, The Battle of Second Winchester, H.E. Howard, Inc., .

External links

General Milroy Collection - Jasper County (Indiana) Public Library

1816 births
1890 deaths
People from Rensselaer, Indiana
People from Washington County, Indiana
People of Indiana in the American Civil War
Indiana lawyers
Union Army generals
Indiana University Maurer School of Law alumni
Norwich University alumni