[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# GoShogun

, "Shout", "Safety Dance", and "The Heat is On".

Discotek Media released the series on subtitled-only DVD in November 2017. Central Park Media had licensed the Time Étranger film and released the film twice on DVD. Discotek has also licensed the film and released it on DVD and Blu-ray in June 2017.

Europe
Around the same time as the US adaptation, Saban released another version of the series in several European countries, also under the title Macron 1. This version, however, did not incorporate any footage from Srungle or the parallel-universe angle, making the international Macron 1 a more straightforward adaptation of GoShogun, though still heavily edited. In Italy the series was broadcast earlier, in 1982, as Gotriniton – Goshogun, and was a direct translation of the Japanese original, without recutting. In France, the first few episodes of GoShogun were released under the title Fulgutor.

This was the first anime series broadcast in Soviet Union.

Characters

Good Thunder Team
Captain Sabarath (v.b. Osamu Kobayashi): Captain of Good Thunder and senior advisor of the GoShogun team; colleague of the late Professor Sanada. Depicted as bald, wearing tinted glasses, and smoking cigars; pragmatic and generally unemotional. Probably named after Telly Savalas, whom he resembles in appearance. Renamed Dr. James Shegall (v.b. Ike Medlick) in Macron 1.
Shingo Hojo (v.b. Hirotaka Suzuoki): Young team leader and gunman who pilots the jet King Arrow, which docks in GoShogun's chest. He is in charge of GoShogun during battle, voice-activating its launch, the docking of the three jets, and various attacks. Stoic, serious, and a little stiff, but brave and level-headed under pressure. Prior to the events of the series, lost his fiancee in a Dokuga terrorist attack. Renamed Jason Templar (v.b. Cam Clarke) in Macron 1.
Remy Shimada (v.b. Mami Koyama): Female pilot of the jet Queen Rose, which docks inside GoShogun's left leg. She is in charge of the smaller robot TriThree, voice-activating its assembly, movement, and attacks. Smart, spunky, and beautiful, but unlucky with the opposite sex. Formerly a secret agent in France. Knowledgeable in art; hopeless in the kitchen. Renamed Kathy Jamison (v.b. Lisa Michelson, then wife of Gregory Snegoff) in Macron 1.
Killy Gagley (v.b. Hideyuki Tanaka): Pilot of the third jet, Jack Knight, which docks inside GoShogun's right leg. A former gangster from New York, nicknamed the "Wolf of Bronx", he is tough, street-smart, and something of a jokester. Has a knack for throwing knives, an eye for the ladies, and is writing an autobiography. Renamed Scott Cutter (v.b. Kerrigan Mahan) in Macron 1.
Kenta Sanada (v.b. Yōko Matsuoka): The son of Professor Sanada, the scientist who discovered Beamler and built Good Thunder and GoShogun. Ten years old at the start of the series, highly inventive, but initially a slacker and troublemaker. Over time, he develops a paranormal ability to communicate with machines and robots, as well as with spirits of the earth's ecosystems, and finally becomes the living embodiment of Beamler energy. Renamed Nathan Bridger (v.b. Barbara Goodson) in Macron 1.
Father (v.b. Yuzuru Fujimoto): Good Thunder's super-computer and AI, programmed from the mind of Professor Sanada. At times, overrides commands from Sabarath to follow the Professor's instructions and ensure the passing of Beamler energy from one stage of development to the next. Renamed Hugo (v.b. Steve Kramer) in Macron 1.
OVA (v.b. Satomi Majima): Kenta's robot tutor and caretaker, who becomes more like a mother to him. Renamed ND-2 (v.b. Ted Layman) in Macron 1.
TriThree: Small robot formed by the assembly of the three jets, piloted by Kathy, renamed MacStar-1 in Macron 1.
GoShogun: The eponymous robot of the series, renamed MacStar in Macron 1. Its weapons include a gigantic axe, an energy sword, and a photon bazooka. GoShogun can fire laser-like beams from its eyes and other parts of its body. Its most powerful weapon, called GoFlasher, consists of five energy missiles launched from the robot's upper back, giving its head a semi-divine aura. Initially, GoFlasher has a purely destructive power, but as Beamler develops, this power becomes an animating one, giving sentience to enemy robots, which then choose to self-destruct rather than continue fighting.