[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fred Copeman

, I had tasted leadership and felt the thrill of power, which came from the willing support of thousands of followers. The Party were quick to observe this and to draw me into active association with them. It was not long before I was in the thick of the political battle on their side and liking it.

Union activist 
Shortly after being discharged from the Royal Navy, Copeman became a member of the National Unemployed Workers' Movement. He organised pickets and demonstrations at Employment Exchanges and elsewhere. In 1933, he was imprisoned in Wandsworth Prison for two months for breaking a government ban on marches. He repeated the offence on being re-released, for which he was sentenced to a further three months, in Brixton Prison. A few months later, he was again arrested and imprisoned for four months, in Wormwood Scrubs, this time at hard labour.

Spanish Civil War, 1936–1939

Along with many other Communist Party members, Copeman decided to join the defence of the Second Spanish Republic. He left for Spain on 26 November 1936, where he joined the British Battalion of the International Brigades. At the Battle of Jarama, in February 1937, Copeman was wounded in the arm and head:

Copeman made what appeared to be a complete recovery and, on his return to the battalion, became commander. Later, just before the Battle of Teruel, he nearly died of complications from his wound (a small piece of unremoved shrapnel became infected) and was invalided home permanently.

World War II and after
The first thing Copeman did on return was to marry. This took place at Lewisham Register Office on 21 May 1938 and "some eleven hundred people" gathered for the wedding reception that night at St Pancras Town Hall.

However, in common with many returned volunteers, Copeman was disenchanted by what he had seen in Spain. As a member of the Executive Committee of the Communist Party, he was invited to visit the Kremlin, where he met Dolores Ibárruri, better known as La Pasionara.  He was disillusioned by what he saw and, following a fist-fight, left the Communist Party shortly afterwards.

Copeman was closely monitored by the British Security Service MI5 for years. 

Nevertheless, when the Second World War came "he was to play a significant role in organising civilian protection against German air-raids in London and was decorated".

In June 1940, shortly after the government had affirmed that it would not make evacuation compulsory, Copeman spoke at a meeting of the National Baby Welfare Council. He referenced his experiences in Spain to argue that the state should make evacuation compulsory: ['In Spain I witnessed] Hitler bombing towns which [were] being evacuated and I … said to myself over and over again, "If only these people had gone when they had the chance" … If you depend on sentiment and rely on the mothers to send their children away you will get nowhere – naturally they will not be parted from their children if they can help it. But if it is made compulsory, mothers after the first raid will bless those who send their children away.During the conflict, Copeman served as manager of the deep tube shelters. In this capacity, he gave several lectures to the Royal Household at Buckingham Palace. For this service, he was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 1946 New Year Honours. Shortly afterwards, he was received into the Roman Catholic church.

He remained active in politics, though over the years he mellowed. He became a "popular Trades Union organiser" and a Labour Party councillor on Lewisham Borough Council.  He stood unsuccessfully for Lewisham North at the 1949 London County Council election, and the equivalent parliamentary constituency at the 1950 UK general election.

Copeman and his wife, Kitty, had four children. He died in London in 1983.

WorksReason in Revolt. London: Blandford Press, London, 1948. —autobiography

Further reading
Jason Gurney, Crusade in Spain. London: Faber & Faber, 1974.
Alan Ereira, The Invergordon Mutiny. London: Routledge, 1981.
Len Wincott, Invergordon Mutineer.'' London: Weidenfeld, 1974.

Footnotes

1907 births
1983 deaths
People from Wangford
Royal Navy sailors
English communists
Communist Party of Great Britain members
British people of the Spanish Civil War
British mutineers
British people of World War II
English Roman Catholics
Officers of the Order of the British Empire
People educated at Watts Naval School
International Brigades personnel