[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Otomat

g a 6 m hole in it. Flight took a little over 400 seconds. In another example, at least 8 missiles were purchased by the US Navy: thanks to a new evasive maneuver, the majority of these weapons, called LRAT (Long Range Autonomous Target) penetrated inside the formidable missile defenses of US ships.

All in all, this missile was and is a very powerful weapon. Without helicopter provided mid-course guidance (especially in presence of dangerous high-speed enemy dogfighters), this weapon is still capable of striking well over the horizon. A range of 50 km can be covered with the ship's own sensors and missiles like MM38 Exocet are at their optimum. Between 50 and 120 km is the range that weapons like Harpoon, which have over the horizon capabilities but no data-link updater, come into play. At ranges longer than that a target moving in unpredicted directions will give such weapons little or no chance to acquire their target. Finally, over 120 km is where the need for a long-range weapon, external targeting platforms and data-linked updates come into play as only with course and target position updating can any long-range missile have a chance of engaging a moving target at these ranges. This is the typical capability of the Otomat, and long-range soviet missiles or French Exocet MM.40 Block 3 (>180 km). In short-range engagements, the Otomat does not have any advantage since it is bigger than other missiles and presents a larger target to shoot down.

There has been a strong resurgence in naval military orders from Fincantieri shipyards, including seven ships for the Qatari Navy (four corvettes, two offshore patrol vessels, and a landing platform dock (LPD) similar to the 8,800-ton ), the US , an LPD (with EMPAR) for Algeria, and the UAE Abu Dhabi class corvette. The Qatari order in particular was strongly contested between Italy and France, and one of the largest recent naval contracts worldwide. This resurgence, and a planned update of the Otomat system, should further enhance orders of Otomat and Marte systems. A contract was signed on 1 September 2016 between MBDA Italy and Qatar for the sale of coastal Marte ER missiles.

Submodels

There are significant differences between Otomat versions. The only component that has remained the same is the engine. In the mid-1990s production exceeded 900 missiles (compared to 3,000 Exocets and 6,000 Harpoons).

This is the complete family, in chronological order:
 Otomat Mk 1: first model, without data link, 60 km practical range, service from 1976
 Otomat Mk 2 Block I: first model with data-link, 180 km range, first over-the-horizon launch in 1978
 Otomat Mk 2 Block II: it had foldable wings, allowing the use of smaller boxes, and so using two missiles instead of one. It started to appear in the 1980s, though it took considerable time to replace the first model.
 Otomat Mk 2 Block III: new INS navigation system, 'insensible' warhead, new, safer solid propellant for boosters, improved data link to allow TESEO to guide missiles also from the ship directly. It is not known when it entered service.
 Otomat Mk 3/NGASM/ULISSE: new version with longer range, stealth design (both shape and materials), IRST sensor coupled with the radar and GPS, land attack capabilities. Development started at the beginning of '90s. The US Navy was interested but didn't adopt the system and the Italian Navy abandoned the project, the cost being too high for the Italian navy alone.
 MILAS: ASW version with a light torpedo in the nose. Weights 800 kg (including torpedo), 6-meter length, 0.46-meter diameter, and 5 km to 35+ km effective range, compatible with Otomat standard systems. The MILAS program started in the 1980s, and was finally adopted only by Italian Navy, the French Navy withdrawing from the program due to cost.
 Otomat Mk 2 Block IV: also called Teseo Mk2/A (for the Italian Navy, with a new electronic set, partially derived from Marte Mk 2/S missile program. The missile has a range of 180 kilometres. The TG-2 (data-link for helicopters) is abolished, because the ship is capable to guide the missile directly (as happened with ERATO) with information given by external platform with OTH engagements. The missile is capable of: re-attack, 3-D mission planning, coordinate attacks, capability to operate in littoral theaters, and attack with terminal evasive maneuvers. GPS is added and so the weapon can attack also land targets. In May 2006, Teseo MK2/A was successfully test-fired for the first time. This variant will in due course be deployed on the Italian variant of the Franco-Italian FREMM frigate. Teseo MK2/A has entered service with the Italian Navy in 2007. Available on the export market and has been purchased by export customers as of 2008.
 Otomat Mk 2 E: the Italian Navy has acquired the new MBDA heavy-duty missile TESEO MK / 2E (TESEO "EVO") with also a strategic land attack capability for the attack of ground targets (the latter capacity, currently only possessed by the Air Forc