[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# History of Dedham, Massachusetts, 1635–1699

the new settlement from Dedham and the fact that the proprietors were not strictly "a Dedham company." On May 7, 1673 the General Court separated the town of Deerfield, with additional lands, provided they establish a church and settle a minister within three years.

Natural resources

Mother Brook

While both the Charles River and the Neponset River ran through Dedham and close by to one another, both were slow-moving and could not power a mill. With an elevation difference of  between the two, however, a canal connecting them would be swift-moving. In 1639 the town ordered that a 4000-foot ditch be dug between the two so that one third of the Charles' water would flow down what would become known as Mother Brook and into the Neponset. Abraham Shaw would begin construction of the first dam and mill on the Brook in 1641 and it would be completed by John Elderkin, who later built the first church in New London, Connecticut. A fulling mill would be established in 1682.

Trees
It is estimated that each family would burn enough wood in a year to clear cut four acres of land. With the memory of the social unrest that happened in Boston when they cleared nearly every tree in that town within three years of its founding, restrictions upon cutting trees on public and unallotted lands were strictly enforced. Preserving these trees became "one of the first conservation projects in New England.

The Old Avery Oak Tree, named for Dr. William Avery, stood on East Street for several centuries. The builders of the USS Constitution once offered $70 to buy the tree, but the owner would not sell. The Avery Oak, which was over 16' in circumference, survived the New England Hurricane of 1938 to be toppled by a violent thunderstorm in 1973; the Town Meeting Moderator's gavel was carved out of it.

Swamps, bogs, and meadows
Owners of swampland were required to drain them. Doing so served several purposes. First, it deprived dangerous wild animals of a habitat. Secondly, it made it easier to cut down the trees on the land at a time when lumber was in high demand for building projects and for burning. Clearing the swamp turns it into a bog, and draining a bog turns it into a meadow. Meadowland was in high demand to raise cattle, and the rich meadows along the Charles River were a major factor in choosing the location to settle in the first place.

The General Court had awarded 300 acres to Samuel Dudley along the northeast border of town, between East Street (which was part of an ancient Indian trail) and the river. Four men, Samuel Morse, Philemon Dalton, Lambert Genere, and John Dwight, purchased the meadowland from Dudley for £20. With an immediate need for more meadows, the Town purchased it from them for £40, doubling their initial investment. The land came to be known as Purchase Meadows and was divided into herdwalks for use by the residents of the various districts.

A road, today known as Needham Street, was laid out along the banks of the Charles River in 1645, but was frequently washed out or flooded. The road brought farmers from their homes in the village to the planting field at Great Plain, in what is today Needham. In addition to washing out the road, the waters would also frequently would flood the "broad meadow," further limiting needed pasture.

It was discovered that the river, which runs due east for many miles, suddenly took a turn southeast, then north, and then northwest, at which point it flowed close by to where it originally turned. Despite a run of seven or eight miles, it only fell three feet, accounting for much of the flooding. In January 1652, Town Meeting voted to dig a 4000-foot ditch connecting the Charles River at either end of its great loop. It was not completed for nearly two years, but once it was it began channeling the water directly from the high side to the low side. Doing so also created an island, today the neighborhood of Riverdale.

Animals

Wild animals were an issue, and the town placed a bounty on several of them. Upon producing an inch and a half of a rattlesnake, plus the rattle, the killer was entitled to six pence. A ten shilling bounty was placed on wolves, and was frequently paid, in addition to a bounty on wildcats. In 1638, seven-year-old John Dwight disappeared in the woods near Wigwam Pond, an area known to be particularly infested with wolves. Between 1650 and 1672, more than 70 wolves were killed in Dedham.

For a short period of time, the Town employed professional hunters and a pack of dogs. Dogs could also be a problem, though. In 1651, the Town deputized Joshua Fisher to keep them from disturbing people in the meetinghouse. On May 27, 2647, Daniel Fisher gave a parcel of land to the Town for use as an animal pound but reserved the right to cut the trees on it.