[Source: PubMed]

10. EClinicalMedicine. 2021 Sep;39:101053. doi: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2021.101053.
Epub  2021 Aug 3.

Global public health security and justice for vaccines and therapeutics in the 
COVID-19 pandemic.

Hotez PJ(1), Batista C(2), Amor YB(3), Ergonul O(4), Figueroa JP(5), Gilbert 
S(6), Gursel M(7), Hassanain M(8), Kang G(9), Kaslow DC(10), Kim JH(11), Lall 
B(12), Larson H(13), Naniche D(14), Sheahan T(15), Shoham S(16), Wilder-Smith 
A(13)(17)(18), Sow SO(19)(20), Strub-Wourgaft N(21), Yadav P(22)(23)(24), 
Bottazzi ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Texas Children's Center for Vaccine Development, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Médecins Sans Frontières, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Center for Sustainable Development, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Koc University Research Center for Infectious Diseases, Istanbul, Turkey.
(5)University of the West Indies, Mona, Kingston, Jamaica.
(6)Nuffield Department of Medicine, Jenner Institute, Oxford University, Oxford, 
UK.
(7)Middle East Technical University, Ankara, Turkey.
(8)College of Medicine, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(9)Christian Medical College, Vellore, India.
(10)PATH Essential Medicines, PATH, WA, USA.
(11)International Vaccine Institute, Seoul, South Korea.
(12)University of Houston College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.
(13)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(14)ISGlobal-Barcelona Institute for Global Health-Hospital Clinic-University of 
Barcelona, Spain.
(15)University of North Carolina, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(16)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(17)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Bern, 
Switzerland.
(18)Heidelberg Institute of Global Health, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(19)Center for Vaccine Development, Bamako, Mali.
(20)University of Maryland, MD, USA.
(21)Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative, Geneva, Switzerland.
(22)Center for Global Development, Washington, DC, USA.
(23)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(24)Affiliate Professor, Technology and Operations Management, INSEAD, France.

A Lancet Commission for COVID-19 task force is shaping recommendations to 
achieve vaccine and therapeutics access, justice, and equity. This includes 
ensuring safety and effectiveness harmonized through robust systems of global 
pharmacovigilance and surveillance. Global production requires expanding support 
for development, manufacture, testing, and distribution of vaccines and 
therapeutics to low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Global intellectual 
property rules must not stand in the way of research, production, technology 
transfer, or equitable access to essential health tools, and in context of 
pandemics to achieve increased manufacturing without discouraging innovation. 
Global governance around product quality requires channelling widely distributed 
vaccines through WHO prequalification (PQ)/emergency use listing (EUL) 
mechanisms and greater use of national regulatory authorities. A World Health 
Assembly (WHA) resolution would facilitate improvements and consistency in 
quality control and assurances. Global health systems require implementing steps 
to strengthen national systems for controlling COVID-19 and for influenza 
vaccinations for adults including pregnant and lactating women. A collaborative 
research network should strive to establish open access databases for 
bioinformatic analyses, together with programs directed at human capacity 
utilization and strengthening. Combating anti-science recognizes the urgency for 
countermeasures to address a global-wide disinformation movement dominating the 
internet and infiltrating parliaments and local governments.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eclinm.2021.101053
PMCID: PMC8330385
PMID: 34368661

Conflict of interest statement: MEB and PJH are developers of a COVID-19 vaccine 
construct, which was licensed by Baylor College of Medicine to Biological E 
Ltd., a commercial vaccine manufacturer for scale up, production, testing and 
licensure. MG participates in one of eight SARS-CoV-2 vaccine development 
projects supported by The Scientific and Technological Research Council of 
Turkey (TÜBİTAK) since March 2020. SG is cofounder of Vaccitech and has a patent 
on ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 licensed to AstraZeneca. MH is Founder and Managing Director 
of SaudiVax. JPF, GK and DCK are members of the WHO SAGE Working Group on 
COVID-19 vaccines. GK is independent director appointed by the Wellcome Trust, 
MSD Wellcome Trust Hilleman Laboratories Private Limited and Vice Chair of the 
Board, Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). DCK reports grants 
from Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) and grants from CEPI, JHK reports 
personal fees from SK biosciences. HL reports grants and honoraria from 
GlaxoSmithKline for training talks and from Merck as a member of the Merck 
Vaccine Confidence Advisory Board, grants from J&J outside the submitted work. 
AWS serves as Consultant to WHO. The views presented here reflect her views and 
not necessarily those of WHO. TS reports grants from National Institute of 
Allergy and Infectious Disease and Fast Grants and research contracts from 
GlaxoSmithKline, and ViiV Healthcare. SS reports grants from Ansun BioPharma, 
Astellas Pharma, Cidara Therapeutics, F2G, Merck, T2 Biosystems, Shire 
Pharmaceuticals, Shionogi, and Gilead Sciences, outside the submitted work; and 
personal fees from Amplyx Pharmaceuticals, Acidophil, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, 
Reviral, Intermountain Healthcare, Karyopharm Therapeutics, Immunome, Celltrion, 
and Adagio outside the submitted work. All other authors declare no conflict of 
interests. The authors views and opinions in the Commentary do not necessarily 
represent the views, decisions, or policies of the institutions, universities, 
or health systems with which they are affiliated.