[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Political families of India

orks Department(Son of H. D. Devegowda) 
Bhavani Revanna - Member of Zilla Panchayth Hassan. (Wife of H. D. Revanna)
Prajwal Revanna - Member of the 17th Lok Sabha from Hassan (son of H. D. Revanna)
Suraj Revanna - Member of Legislative Council from Hassan Constituency (Son of H. D. Revanna)

Kerala

Madhya Pradesh

Singh family (Churhat) 

Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh (1894–1955) from ChurhatMember of Jawaharlal Nehru's cabinet
Arjun Singh - Former Union Minister for Human Resources Department and former Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh (son of Rao) 
Ajay Arjun SinghFormer cabinet minister in the Madhya Pradesh government and former opposition leader (son of Arjun)

Chaudhary family

 Chaudhary Dilip Singh ChaturvediMLA from Bhind
 Chaudhary Rakesh Singh ChaturvediFormer cabinet minister, former leader of the opposition, MLA from Bhind (son) 
 Chaudhary Mukesh Singh ChaturvediMLA from Mehgaon (son)

Chaturvedi family 

Vidyawati ChaturvediMLA from Laundi
Satyavrat ChaturvediMember of the Rajya Sabha (son)

Nath family 

Kamal NathFormer Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, former Minister of Urban Development, former member of the Lok Sabha from Chhindwara
Alka NathFormer MP from Chhindwara (wife)
Nakul NathMember of the Lok Sabha from Chhindwara (son)

MP Singh family 

 Balbhadra SinghMLA from Raghogarh
 Digvijaya Singh15th Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh (son)
 Lakshman SinghMLA from Raghogarh (son)
 Mool SinghMLA from Raghogarh (nephew)
 Jaivardhan Singh—Ex minister madhyaprdesh kamalnath cabinet, MLA from Raghogarh (Grand son)

Vajpayee family 

 Atal Bihari Vajpayee10th Prime Minister of India
 Karuna ShuklaMember of the 14th Lok Sabha (niece)

Maharashtra

Ambedkar family

 B. R. Ambedkar (1891-1956) - Father of the Constitution of India, first Minister of Law and Justice, Member of Parliament, Rajya Sabha, labour member of the Viceroy's Executive Council, opposition leader in the Bombay Legislative Assembly, member of the Bombay Legislative Council
 Yashwant Ambedkar (1912-1977) - Leader of the Republican Party of India, member of the Maharashtra Legislative Council (son of B. R. Ambedkar)
 Prakash Ambedkar - Leader of the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi, former Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MP (son of Yashwant)
 Anandraj Ambedkar - Leader of the Republican Sena (son of Yashwant)

Thackeray family 

Bal Thackeray - Founder of the Shiv Sena political party
Uddhav Thackeray - Former Chief Minister of Maharashtra (son) 
Aditya Thackeray - Former Cabinet minister in the Government of Maharashtra (grandson)

Pawar family 

Sharad Pawar – Former Defence Minister of India and Chief Minister of Maharashtra
Supriya Sule – Member of the Lok Sabha From Baramati (daughter)
Ajit Pawar –  Deputy Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Former Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly (nephew)
Rohit Rajendra Pawar - Member of Maharashtra assembly (nephew's son)

Odisha

Patnaik family
Biju Patnaik - Former Chief Minister of Odisha (earlier known as Orissa)
Naveen Patnaik - Chief Minister of Odisha (son)

Biswal family
Basant Kumar Biswal - Former Deputy Chief Minister of Odisha
Chiranjib Biswal - Former deputy opposition leader of the Odisha Legislative Assembly (son)

Puducherry

Reddiar family 

V. Venkatasubha ReddiarFormer Chief Minister of Pondicherry and freedom fighter
V. Vaithilingam ReddiarFormer Chief Minister of Pondicherry (son)

Farook family 
M. O. H. FarookFormer Chief Minister of Pondicherry
 M. O. H. F. ShahjahanFormer Education Minister of Pondicherry (son)

Punjab

Talwandi family 
 Jagdev Singh Talwandi –  Former President Shiromani Akali Dal; Former President Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee; Former MP (Lok Sabha); Former MP (Rajya Sabha); Former Minister, Punjab
 Ranjit Singh Talwandi – former MLA from Raikot constituency
 Jagjit Singh Talwandi – SGPC member
 Harjit Kaur Talwandi – President women's wing Shiromani Akali Dal(Sanyukt)
 Dev Raj Singh Talwandi – former MLA from Raikot constituency

Jakhar family 
 Chaudhari Rajaram Jakhar, zaildar from Panjkosi, Abohar, Fazilka, Punjab
 Balram Jakhar, 2 times MLA and leader of opposition, MP Ferozepur 1980, Speaker of Lok Sabha. Governor of Madhya Pradesh 
 Sajjan Kumar Jakhar, MLA and Minister 
 Sunil Kumar Jakhar, 3 times MLA, President of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Punjab, former leader of opposition, Member of Parliament from Gurdaspur. Former chief of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee
 Sandeep Jakhar, MLA

Badal family 
Prakash Singh Badal – Former Chief Minister of Punjab 
Sukhbir Singh Badal – Former Deputy Chief Minister of Punjab, MP (Lok Sabha), president Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) (son)
Harsimrat Kaur Badal – Member of the Lok Sabha (wife of Sukhbir Singh)
Bikram Singh Majithia – Former minister, Punjab (brother of Harsimrat Kaur)
Adesh Pratap Singh Kairon – Minister, Punjab (son-in-law of Prakash Singh)

Brar (Harcharan) family