[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 113]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

employed in her room with more than common assiduity. At
length, on the very day that was destined for this important exhibition,
she came to him with a benevolent smile, and spoke to him thus: "I was
so much pleased with the account you gave me the other day of that poor
young woman's duty and affection towards her parents, that I have for
some time employed myself in preparing for them a little present, which
I shall be obliged to you, Master Harry, to convey to them. I have,
unfortunately, never learned either to embroider or to paint artificial
flowers, but my good uncle has taught me that the best employment I can
make of my hands is to assist those who cannot assist themselves."
Saying this, she put into his hands a parcel that contained some linen
and other necessaries for the poor old people, and bade him tell them
not to forget to call upon her uncle when she was returned home, as he
was always happy to assist the deserving and industrious poor. Harry
received her present with gratitude, and almost with tears of joy; and,
looking up in her face, imagined that he saw the features of one of
those angels which he had read of in the Scriptures; so much does real
disinterested benevolence improve the expression of the human
countenance.

But all the rest of the young gentry were employed in cares of a very
different nature--the dressing their hair and adorning their persons.
Tommy himself had now completely resumed his natural character, and
thrown aside all that he had learned during his residence with Mr
Barlow; he had contracted an infinite fondness for all those scenes of
dissipation which his new friends daily described to him, and began to
be convinced that one of the most important things in life is a
fashionable dress. In this _most rational_ sentiment he had been
confirmed by almost all the ladies with whom he had conversed since his
return home. The distinctions of character, relative to virtue and
understanding, which had been with so much pains inculcated upon his
mind, seemed here to be entirely unheeded. No one took the trouble of
examining the real principles or motives from which any human being
acted, while the most minute attention was continually given to what
regarded merely the outside. He observed that the omission of every duty
towards our fellow-creatures was not only excused, but even to a certain
degree admired, provided it was joined with a certain fashionable
appearance; while the most perfect probity or integrity was mentioned
with coldness or disgust, and frequently with open ridicule if
unconnected with a brilliant appearance. As to all the common virtues of
life--such as industry, economy, a punctuality in discharging our
obligations or keeping our word--these were qualities which were treated
as fit for none but the vulgar. Mr Barlow, he found, had been utterly
mistaken in all the principles which he had ever inculcated. "The human
species," Mr Barlow used to say, "can only be supplied with food and
necessaries by a constant assiduity in cultivating the earth and
providing for their mutual wants. It is by labour that everything is
produced; without labour, these fertile fields, which are now adorned
with all the luxuriance of plenty, would be converted into barren
heaths, or impenetrable thickets; these meadows, now the support of a
thousand herds of cattle, would be covered with stagnated waters, that
would not only render them uninhabitable by beasts, but corrupt the air
with pestilential vapours; and even these innumerable flocks of sheep
that feed along the hills, would disappear immediately on the cessation
of that cultivation, which can alone support them, and secure their
existence."

But, however true might be these principles, they were so totally
inconsistent with the conduct and opinion of Tommy's new friends, that
it was not possible for him long to remember their force. He had been
nearly a month with a few young ladies and gentlemen of his own rank,
and instead of their being brought up to produce anything useful, he
found that the great object of all their knowledge and education was
only to waste, to consume, to destroy, to dissipate what was produced
by others; he even found that this inability to assist either themselves
or others seemed to be a merit upon which every one valued himself
extremely; so that an individual, who could not exist without having two
attendants to wait upon him, was superior to him that had only one, but
was obliged in turn to yield to another who required four. And, indeed,
this new system seemed much more easy than the old one; for, instead of
giving himself any trouble about his manners or understanding, he might
with safety indulge all his caprices, give way to all his passions, be
humoursome, haughty, unjust, and selfish to the extreme. He might be
ungrateful to his friends, disobedient to his parents, a glutton, an
ignorant blockhead, in short, ever