[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Winkler v. Rumsfeld

Winkler v. Rumsfeld was a case regarding the United States Armed Forces and their support of the Boy Scouts of America's national Scout jamborees.

Every four years, the Boy Scouts of America holds a national Scout jamboree, where for ten days, approximately 30,000-40,000 Scouts camp out and participate in a wide variety of activities. At the time of the case, the US Department of Defense was the official host of the jamboree. From 1981 until 2010, the jamboree was held at Fort A.P. Hill, a US Army base in Virginia. The US Government spent an average of $2 million a year towards hosting of the jamboree.

The Boy Scouts of America has always required all Scouts to agree to the Scout Oath which includes the phrase "To do my Duty to God". There have been several high-profile cases in which atheists and agnostics were removed from the organization for failing to agree to the Scout Oath.

The American Civil Liberties Union brought suit on behalf of Chicago-area taxpayers Eugene Winkler, Methodist pastor, Gary Gerson, Reform rabbi, Timuel Black, teacher and civil rights activist, Douglas Ferguson and Mary Cay Marubio arguing that the Department of Defense's use of taxpayer money to fund the jamborees of what they called a private religious organization violates the First Amendment, which prohibits Congress from establishing a religion.

In 2005, a U.S. District Court ruled that the DOD's spending on national Scout jamborees violates the Establishment Clause of the United States Constitution. The decision was subsequently reversed by the US Court of Appeals on April 4, 2007 in Winkler vs Gates (renamed due to a new Secretary of Defense), which ruled that the plaintiffs lacked legal standing as taxpayers to bring the suit in the first place. Therefore, the 2010 Jamboree at Fort A.P. Hill and future support by DOD of Jamborees continued as before.

The case arose out of Winkler v. Chicago School Reform Board of Trustees, in which the plaintiffs sued the U.S. government and the city of Chicago.

Background information
The national Scout jamboree is a large gathering of Scouts held once every four years. Historically, jamborees were held in state and national parks like other groups' gatherings, but mutual concerns by BSA and the government over the environmental impact of 35,000 Scouts camping in heavily used public places led to a 1978 agreement to use infrequently used military facilities instead. The United States military used the jamboree as a large-scale training exercise for engineer, military police, and medical units. In addition, the military supported the jamboree through many different public relations and civilian support functions as well, as well as by teaching merit badges. While only registered Scouts and Scouters are allowed to camp at the jamboree, the exhibits and shows are open for the general public to visit and typically 300,000 persons visit a jamboree.

From 1981 to 2010, the U.S. Army allowed the BSA to use Fort A.P. Hill in Virginia as the home of the national Scout jamboree, as authorized by Congress in 1972 through 10 U.S.C. 2554. As part of the 1978 agreement, BSA paid for capital improvements at Fort A.P. Hill (water lines, road improvements, amphitheater, etc.) that are used by both the jamboree and unrelated military encampments. BSA uses the facility for four weeks once every four years and it is available to the military and other members of the public for the rest of the time. The U.S. military regards the national Scout jamboree as beneficial for public relations and recruitment, and is a unique training opportunity, particularly in testing operations needed to support large-scale military encampments or refugee tent cities.

The U.S. military has supported all of the national Scout jamborees since 1937. Most of the approximately $50 million jamboree expense is paid for by BSA and its participants. About 1,500 troops and DOD contractors are involved during the four weeks of a national jamboree operation. About half of them are involved in military training operations and half are involved in military public relations activities oriented towards the participants and visitors. Total Defense Department funding for these training and public relations activities averaged $8 million per jamboree. According to the government, "these funds were used to pay not only for services provided in support of the event itself, but also for the costs of transporting and billeting the population of soldiers brought to Fort A.P. Hill to perform services during the event."