[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

ia 

The Royal Australian Air Force operates a number of specialised aircraft to carry the King of Australia, members of the Royal Family, the Governor-General of Australia, the Prime Minister of Australia, senior members of the Australian government, and foreign, mostly Pacific Island, dignitaries.

An Airbus A330 MRTT multi-role tanker was announced by Defence Minister David Johnston in 2014 to be acquired for VIP transport, whilst maintaining its original ability to serve as a military tanker and transport aircraft.[1] The aircraft has the registration A39-007 and is painted in an "air force grey" livery rather than the white colour scheme. While no official photos have been released, the aircraft has 100 lie-flat seats for its passengers.

The RAAF's other VIP aircraft are two leased Boeing Business Jets and three Dassault Falcon 7Xs which are operated by the No. 34 Squadron RAAF and are based at Canberra Airport. The Falcon 7Xs replaced three Bombardier Challenger 604s in 2019. The Boeing Business Jets are custom configured Boeing 737-700s, fitted with facilities such as conference tables, offices suites, secure satellite and communication capabilities. These two aircraft have a longer range than what is standard for Boeing Business Jets. The Prime Minister regularly makes use of the aircraft for domestic and international travel.

The BBJs and Challenger 604s replaced five No. 34 Squadron Dassault Falcon 900s and passenger-configured Boeing 707s tanker transports of No. 33 Squadron RAAF in 2002. These in turn replaced two BAC One-Elevens, three Dassault Falcon 20s and two Hawker Siddeley HS 748s.

These aircraft usually fly under the callsign "ASY", followed by a three-digit number.

Fiji
The government uses commercial aircraft, e.g. Fiji Airways, for travel abroad, or they use government aircraft borrowed from other countries.

Kiribati
The government of Kiribati uses commercial aircraft.

Marshall Islands
The government uses commercial aircraft for travel.

Nauru
The government uses commercial aircraft.

New Zealand

The Royal New Zealand Air Force maintains two Boeing 757-200s which are occasionally used to transport the Governor-General, the Prime Minister, various other government officials, as well as members of the Royal Family when on New Zealand business. As multi-role aircraft, they are more often used as transport aircraft for troops or freight. Generally, the Prime Minister and government officials use commercial or chartered flights (with Air New Zealand where available) to travel both domestically and internationally. The 757s replaced a pair of aging Boeing 727s. The planes use a regular RNZAF "KIWI/KIW" callsign.

Palau
The government uses turbo-prop or commercial aircraft for travel.

Papua New Guinea
The government uses a Dassault Falcon 900EX (Reg: P2-ANW) for overseas travel, which flies under a special Air Niugini callsign. Otherwise, the government utilises commercial aircraft.

Samoa
The government uses commercial aircraft.

Solomon Islands
The government uses commercial aircraft for travel.

Tonga
The government uses private or commercial aircraft.

Tuvalu
The government uses commercial aircraft for travel.

Vanuatu
The government can use turbo-prop or commercial aircraft for international travel.

South America

Argentina 

The Presidential Air Group uses a Boeing 757 outfitted in a VIP configuration for use as presidential transport.

The Argentinian government once operated a much larger fleet of aircraft and helicopters for exclusive use by the President of Argentina and his or her family. This set of aircraft was known as the "Agrupación Aérea Presidencial" (literally Spanish for Presidential Air Group) and belonged to one of the Departments of the Presidency, called the Military House (known in Spanish as Casa Militar).

This department was responsible for presidential security and transportation. Also incorporated during the presidency of Carlos Menem to replace an ageing Boeing 707, a Boeing 757-200 (T-01) was used for international visits. The Agrupación Aérea Presidencial was closed in 2016 by then-president Mauricio Macri, because of the high cost of repairs and maintenance and the lack of adequate pilots and spare parts. The fleet of the Presidential Air Group in 2014 was composed of

 T-01 (Tango 01) Boeing 757-200
 T-02 Fokker F-28-4000 Fellowship
 T-03 Fokker F-28-1000C Fellowship
 T-04 Boeing 737-500
 T-10 Learjet 60
 H-01 Sikorsky S-70A Black Hawk
 H-02 Sikorsky S-76B
 H-03 Sikorsky S-76B

All aircraft from the Agrupación Aérea Presidencial are currently stored, however Mauricio Macri used the Boeing 737-500 for domestic and short-haul trips, while utilising private jets for long-haul trips.