[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mayo A. Shattuck III

hey also increased the company's exposure to financial market developments. When credit ultimately dried up during the financial crisis, ratings agencies downgraded Constellation's debt and Constellation stock fell by 76% leading some to question whether Shattuck should continue to lead the company.

Nonetheless, general sentiment on Constellation's board was "overwhelmingly" to keep him citing his "imperturbability" amid chaos. Over the following few years, Shattuck steered the company through the global financial downturn, securing funding from Berkshire Hathaway to keep the company afloat while avoiding a buyout from the same company, preserving the independence of Constellation. Finally in April 2011, Exelon corporation announced plans to acquire Constellation Energy. The planned merger drew negative reactions from some but was ultimately approved by regulators and completed in March 2012. After Exelon completed its acquisition of Constellation Energy, Shattuck assumed the new role of executive chairman. Shattuck retired from Exelon on February 28, 2013 but remained on the board as non-executive chairman. As a non-executive chairman less is required of Shattuck, allowing him to shift his focus from many of the daily tasks associated with leading the company.

Advocacy 
Spending much of his career in the energy industry after leaving Alex. Brown & Sons, much of Shattuck's advocacy centers around topics dealing with the future of electrical energy in the United States.

One such major point of advocacy has been the deregulation of energy markets across the United States. While prior to the 1990s energy was largely distributed by government regulated monopolies, legislation in various states eventually led to competition between energy companies, thus forcing significant change in how energy companies distributed electricity. In 2010, Shattuck spoke before the US Chamber of Commerce:"We have markets now where the important thing is that people have choice...Twenty-two states have broken up their regulated utilities to permit competition, he said, and costs have come down. "Deregulated markets do what they are supposed to do...Monopolies are not going to be the answer in terms of driving efficiencies, driving costs down and driving innovation"Additionally, in contrast to many of his peers in the energy industry, Shattuck has been vocal in his support for a carbon tax stating,"We ought to address climate change, and address it through a price on carbon"In 2009, Shattuck released a statement on behalf of Constellation Energy backing a bill named the American Clean energy Security Act of 2009 which limited carbon emissions and promoted green energy generation. Lastly and most notably, Shattuck is an outspoken advocate for American nuclear energy. In particular, Shattuck argues for additional sovereign support in the form of extension of government loan guarantees in the construction of nuclear reactors. Speaking to a Johns Hopkins audience, he stated that"if that upfront fee is really big, it's going to discourage people from wanting to take the loan, because there's so much money going out for a plant of that size. It is a process that we're in to get all parties to get their arms around the gap analysis"During his time at Constellation Energy and Exelon, Shattuck served as chairman of the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations and a member of the Executive Committee of the Nuclear Energy Institute and Co-Chairman of the Commission on Nuclear Policy in the United States. After withdrawing from a joint project with EDF to operate nuclear plants in the United States, Shattuck continues to advocate for nuclear energy.

Controversy 
Maryland began to deregulate electricity in the early 2000s (prior to Shattuck's tenure at Constellation) which would ultimately lift the state's electricity rate price caps. This development coincided with large hurricanes in the southeastern United States reducing natural gas production in 2007. All of this resulted in Baltimore Gas and Electric Company, a regulated utility company subsidiary of Constellation Energy Group, having to raise electricity rates by 72%. Opponents argued that increased revenues from Constellation profits should be used to subsidize utility prices and keep them low. Shattuck himself was scrutinized for contributing $8,000 in the Maryland gubernatorial election. On the other hand, defenders point out that BG&E is legally separated from Constellation and is heavily regulated by the state's Public Service Commission to keep levels of profitability in check. The Maryland General Assembly ultimately put up a temporary measure to limit price increases to 15%.

Other affiliations 

In 1997, Mayo Shattuck was made trustee of the Seagram Company, Ltd. Shattuck also serves as an independent director at several corporations including: