[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Organization of Women's Freedom in Iraq

ir families or who have been affected by the acts of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). They do this by providing them with food, shelter, medicine, and clothing in their safe shelters. The OWFI provides these women and their families with supplies and tools that are essential for survival.

Newsletter 
The OWFI has a website that contains updates on the events they have organized. It also works to bring awareness about what is happening in the Iraqi government and women's status in Iraq. The newsletter highlights their efforts in the fight for equal rights and legal status. Their website includes articles that give updates on the latest activities, campaigns, and press releases related to their organization and women's rights. It also provides a background to how the organization came to be, what they advocate for, and why their work is so important. The website includes a link to their Facebook page where they post videos of their radio station's content. In their newsletter posted in June 2018, they identify that the democracy in Iraq is not functioning, as the latest elections have failed to announce the final results from their elections. They organized an event and discussed the discrimination that exists in Iraq towards Black Iraqi women. On their website Yanar Mohammed says, "This year in particular we are committing to lobbying structural and legislative changes for women's rights in Iraq."

Employment and sex trafficking/prostitution 
There have been a lack of jobs and opportunity for education in Iraq. In Iraq the work force is male-dominated and taking care of children and families and predominately a female's duty. However, women who can work have been seeking jobs near Damascus, Syria, because of the job shortage in Iraq. Unfortunately for women, there are traffickers that trick them into sex work by telling them they will be working at textile factories where they can receive to $300 a month. This phenomenon has brought many women and girls as young as 12 years old to Damascus because of the economic instability that Iraqi families have faced in the past 15 years. Moreover, since there are limited employment opportunities for women, many of them turn to prostitution to for income. In order to sustain the cost of living for themselves and their families sex work is one of their only options. However, sex work is not appropriate according to the beliefs that many Iraqi's have. Many families disown these women and they are left with no homes because they are not following the Islamic beliefs. However, the OWFI helps women with this by preventing them from falling for these sex trafficking tricks and providing housing for victims of sex trafficking and those who have been rejected by their families.

Honor killings 
Honor killings are a practice in Iraq where a woman is killed for not following Islamic morals, such as proper dress code and proper sexual conduct. Women who step out of these codes are killed to restore honor to the families bloodline. In the city of Basra honor killings are so common that "hitmen" can be hired by the head of the family to restore the honor their female family members might have tarnished. Since Iraq is under Sharia law those who commit honor killings are rarely punished. In 1990 the party in charge of the northern Kurdish section in Iraq was actively participating in these honor killings. Southern Iraqi law enforcement claims that they are powerless to monitor and prevent honor killings. More recently, in 2007, at the Basra Security Committee, a lawyer explained how police in Basra do not take measures to prevent perpetrators from being convicted of murder. In the same year there were at least 40 killings reported by extreme religious groups in the city of Basra, as well as 15 killings by groups named "Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice" with almost no response from the police or government. In 2008, there was a 70% increase in religious murders. In that same year, again in the city of Basra, 81 women were murdered in but only five people were convicted. Not only do extreme religious groups participate in these honor killings but the families of these women do as well. Especially when it involves a woman having sexual intercourse with a man without the family's permission, even through rape. Families can take action themselves or higher a hitman to enact these honor killings for prices as low as $100. Moreover, theses crimes are hardly investigated unless the one who committed the crime confesses. The OWFI is fighting to change these laws and bring justice to the women who are being murdered. Additionally, their shelters serve a safe haven for women who are being sought after to kill.