[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Justice Lords

The League's apparent degeneration cast it into an increasingly bad light. However, it successfully recruits the populist, astute Green Arrow as its political conscience; he puts the role of Cadmus in perspective for the League, preventing it from succumbing to the temptation that created the Lords.

Luthor hacks the Justice League Watchtower to attack Cadmus headquarters, causing extensive collateral damage to the surrounding area. The public turns against the League, and they decide to decommission the Watchtower and faithfully surrender (except for Batman, who wants to clear the League's name on his own). However, Cadmus decides to retaliate, sending Galatea (a clone of Supergirl) and an army of genetically engineered metahumans to destroy the Watchtower and kill the rest of the League on board. The League subdues the clones and Supergirl defeats Galatea. When Batman finally convinces Waller that Luthor is responsible for the attack, they confront him in his Lexcorp offices, only to be beaten back by Lex, who demonstrates unnatural speed and strength due to Brainiac secretly being in his body for several years.

"Divided We Fall" 
In "Divided We Fall", Brainiac and Luthor unite into an entity that creates duplicate androids of the Lords to fight the League, playing on their worst fears: Superman becoming a Justice Lord, and Green Lantern and Hawkgirl's failed relationship and her pariah status on Earth and Thanagar. Only Flash appeared to be the most unaffected by his replica's taunts due to his optimistic nature, and the androids were quickly destroyed, though the group of androids was merely a delaying tactic on the part of the Brainiac/Luthor entity.

The growing fear that the League might become the Lords reaches a climax in this episode, when the Flash exceeds his maximum speed to destroy Brainiac, vanishing into the Speed Force. With Flash supposedly dead and Luthor at his mercy, Superman is put in the same position as his Justice Lord counterpart, but resists the temptation and proclaims that he is his own person. J'onn then senses Flash's presence, and the League successfully pulls him back to reality.

Realizing they have estranged themselves from those they are trying to protect and still fearful of the future, Superman publicly announces the complete dissolution of the Justice League. However, Green Arrow challenges him, saying the Justice League was bigger than any individual and would continue without the original seven, and Superman changes his mind, deciding for the League to establish an embassy on Earth as a secondary Watchtower and maintain a closer relationship with governments and law enforcement.

Members
 Superman (voiced by George Newbern) - Leader of the Justice Lords who breaks into the White House and kills President Luthor after Luthor kills Flash. He and the other Lords then impose their version of justice on the world. Superman lobotomizes the villains (including Joker, Poison Ivy, Two-Face, Doomsday and Ventriloquist), despite opposition from Lois Lane. He and the other Lords capture the Justice League and plan to take over their Earth. Responding to Lex Luthor's escape from prison, he leads the others into a trap in which Luthor is the Justice League's Martian Manhunter. Superman defeats Flash and is willing to kill him when Luthor blasts him with an energy disruptor.
 Batman (voiced by Kevin Conroy) - Unlike the others, Batman is morally ambiguous; while he does not join in their escapades, he is unperturbed by them. Batman discovers the Justice League, captures them with the other Lords and takes over their world. When Batman remains behind to guard the League, the Flash accelerated his heart rate until he seemed to flatline. Although Batman is alerted, the Flash overpowers him and locks him up. He escapes and battles League Batman in the Batcave. Though he initially convinces League Batman to side with him, witnessing a man being arrested for simply complaining about a restaurant bill makes him realize that the League's cause is just. League Batman convinces him to help the League return to their world.
 Wonder Woman (voiced by Susan Eisenberg) - Helps Superman defeat and lobotomize Doomsday. She is defeated by her counterpart when Luthor blasts her with an energy disruptor.
 J'onn J'onzz (voiced by Carl Lumbly) - When the Lords discover the Justice League, he leads them into a trap and helps in the fight against Doomsday. He is defeated by his League counterpart (Martian Manhunter), aided by Luthor and his energy disruptor.
 Green Lantern (voiced by Phil LaMarr) - Unlike his League counterpart, he maintains his relationship with Hawkgirl.
 Hawkgirl (voiced by Maria Canals-Barrera) - She maintains her relationship with John Stewart.
 Flash - When Luthor becomes president, he sends the army after the Flash and kills him.