[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Bjørn Lomborg

reign Policy and Prospect (2008)
 50 people who could save the planet - The Guardian (5 January 2008)
 Glocal Hero Award - Transatlantyk - Poznań International Film and Music Festival (2011)
 FP Top 100 Global Thinkers - Foreign Policy (2012): "For taking the black and white out of climate politics"

Discussions in the media 
After the release of The Skeptical Environmentalist in 2001, Lomborg was subjected to intense scrutiny and criticism in the media. As in the scientific community, his scientific qualifications and integrity were criticised, although some popular media outlets supported him. The verdict of the Danish Committees for Scientific Dishonesty fueled this debate and brought it into the spotlight of international mass media. By the end of 2003 Lomborg had become an international celebrity, with frequent appearances on radio, television and print media around the world. He is also a regular contributor to Project Syndicate since 2005.
 Scientific American published criticism of Lomborg's book. Lomborg responded on his own website, quoting the article at such length that Scientific American threatened to sue for copyright infringement. Lomborg eventually removed the rebuttal from his website; it was later published in PDF format on Scientific Americans site. The magazine also printed a response to the rebuttal.
 The Economist defended Lomborg, claiming the panel of experts that had criticised Lomborg in Scientific American was both biased and did not actually counter Lomborg's book. The Economist argued that the panel's opinion had come under no scrutiny at all, and that Lomborg's responses had not been reported.
 Penn & Teller: Bullshit! — the U.S. Showtime television programme featured an episode entitled "Environmental Hysteria" in which Lomborg criticised what he claimed was environmentalists' refusal to accept a cost-benefit analysis of environmental questions, and stressed the need to prioritise some issues above others.
 Rolling Stone stated, "Lomborg pulls off the remarkable feat of welding the techno-optimism of the Internet age with a lefty's concern for the fate of the planet."
 The Union of Concerned Scientists criticised The Skeptical Environmentalist, claiming it to be "seriously flawed and failing to meet basic standards of credible scientific analysis", accusing Lomborg of presenting data in a fraudulent way, using flawed logic and selectively citing non-peer-reviewed literature. The review was conducted by Peter Gleick, Jerry D. Mahlman, Edward O. Wilson, Thomas Lovejoy, Norman Myers, Jeff Harvey, and Stuart Pimm.
 The New York Times criticised False Alarm, stating "This book proves the aphorism that a little knowledge is dangerous. It's nominally about air pollution. It's really about mind pollution." The review was conducted by Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz.

Publications 
 "Nucleus and Shield: Evolution of Social Structure in the Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma", American Sociological Review, 1996.
 
  Global Crises, Global Solutions, Copenhagen Consensus, Cambridge University Press, 2004. , as editor
 How to Spend $50 Billion to Make the World a Better Place, Cambridge University Press, 2006. , as editor
 Solutions for the World's Biggest Problems – Costs and Benefits, Cambridge University Press, 2007. , as editor
 
 Smart Solutions to Climate Change, Comparing Costs and Benefits, Cambridge University Press, 2010, .
 The Nobel Laureates Guide to the Smartest Targets for the World 2016–2030, Copenhagen Consensus Center, 2015. 
 Prioritizing Development: A Cost Benefit Analysis of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals Cambridge University Press, 2018, , as editor

See also 
 Global warming controversy
 Environmental skepticism
 Project Syndicate

References

Further reading 
Sarvis, Will. Embracing Philanthropic Environmentalism: The Grand Responsibility of Stewardship, (McFarland, 2019).

External links 

 Lomborg's personal website, with own articles, links to related broadcasts on radio and TV, and Lomborg's opinion on the issues with the Danish Committees on Scientific Dishonesty
 Column archive at The Guardian
 Column archive at Project Syndicate
 
 
 
 "Lomborg Errors" compilation of claims of errors in Lomborg's work
 
 
Interviews

Articles

 

1965 births
Living people
Aarhus University alumni
Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs
Academic staff of Copenhagen Business School
Danish economics writers
Academic staff of Aarhus University
Danish political scientists
Environmental economists
Gay academics
Gay scientists
Danish gay writers
Non-fiction environmental writers
Political science educators
University of Copenhagen alumni
University of Georgia alumni
The Australian journalists
21st-century Danish LGBT people
Environmental skepticism
Cornucopians
Hoover Institution people