[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sidney Edgerton

entually made it out of Virginia, but always believed had he left the wagon, the men would have killed him. After this encounter, Edgerton viewed Southerners, generally, with contempt. Edgerton continued to be a large voice in the anti-slavery movement, but decided not to run for reelection in 1862.

American Civil War
During the Civil War, Edgerton served briefly as colonel in the Ohio Militia. Edgerton was one of the Squirrel Hunters, expert shots from Ohio, and served at the Defense of Cincinnati. Edgerton served as both a U.S. Congressman and soldier at the same time, during the first few years of the war.

Territory of Idaho
On March 6, 1863, Edgerton was nominated by President Abraham Lincoln to be Chief Justice of the Idaho Territorial Supreme Court, and he was confirmed by the senate four days later. His salary was to be $2,500 a year (about $34,000 in 2009). He left with his wife, his children, his niece, Lucia Darling, his nephew, Wilbur F. Sanders, Sanders' wife, Sanders' children, a family friend, Henry Tilden, and a young woman named Almarette Greer. Edgerton's group first travelled to Cleveland, Ohio, by train, they then traveled, by boat, across Lake Erie, continuing, by train, to St. Joseph, Missouri, they then travelled, by steamboat, to Omaha, Nebraska. They then bought their provisions, and began their trip on ox-drawn wagons. The party was met by good weather, and no bad confrontations with Native Americans. The group stopped at Chimney Rock, to visit. They then started off again, on their trip. One incident that did happen was when Edgerton fell from one of the wagons, and was almost crushed by one of the wheels. The group arrived at South Pass, in August 1863. After arriving in South Pass City, Edgerton received a telegraph message saying that the capital of the Territory of Idaho had yet to be decided. On August 15, as the group was heading west, a man arrived with a telegraph message saying that the capital of the Territory of Idaho was to be at Lewiston. The message was welcome news to the group, but knew that to get to Lewiston, before the snows, would be difficult. As the group descended the western slopes of the Rocky Mountains, it was discovered that Mary Edgerton was pregnant. In September, the group arrived at the trail, beginning at the Blackfoot River. Edgerton realized, that it would not be possible to make it to Lewiston, before the snows. The group then changed its course for Bannack. The party crossed the Snake River, by ferry, on September 6. After crossing, they met Sheriff Henry Plummer. This would not be the last meeting between Edgerton and Plummer. The group continued, and crossed Monida Pass. The group finally made it to Bannack, on September 16.

After arriving in Bannack, Idaho Territory, Edgerton reported to Territorial Governor William Wallace. Edgerton requested the designation of courts and districts, but no court was designated for his district. Wallace appointed Edgerton to one of the farthest and most remote places away from the capitol. When he arrived there was no administrator to administer the oath of office. He never took the oath of office and therefore he never legally took his position as Chief Justice. The Edgerton's then bought a home at a Sheriff's sale for $400. The one room home became the first Montana Governor's Residence. After arriving in his district, he began taking tours of the territory gold fields and gold camps. Edgerton realized the value of the gold fields, to the Union. He was then chosen, by the local population, to go to Washington D.C. His mission was to lobby for the split of the Territory of Idaho. Edgerton and Sanders then left in a stagecoach for Washington. Edgerton arrived with $2,500 in gold nuggets in his pockets (about $34,000 in 2009). He presented this to President Abraham Lincoln and numerous members of Congress. His lobbying paid off in 1864. That year the Territory of Idaho split into three parts. The three parts included the Territory of Idaho, the Territory of Montana, and the Territory of Dakota.

Territory of Montana
Before leaving Washington, D.C. for the Territory of Idaho, Edgerton had a private meeting with President Abraham Lincoln, in which he asked for the position of Territorial Governor of Montana. Lincoln told Edgerton that he would think about it. Edgerton then left for the west, unsure of whether or not he would have a new position when he arrived, but on May 23, 1864, while on his way home, Mary Edgerton had a baby girl. She named her Idaho, unknowing of the fact that it was now the Territory of Montana. After seeing his skills in the Territory of Idaho, President Abraham Lincoln appointed Edgerton as the first Territorial Governor of Montana.