[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Legality of the Iraq War

pheld the order for disclosure in early 2009  Jack Straw (then Justice Minister) issued the first ever ministerial veto (Section 53 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000) and prevented the release of the minutes. On 6 July 2016, extracts from the minutes were disclosed by the Iraq Inquiry.

Germany

On June 21, 2005, the German Federal Administrative Court found with regard to the Iraq War that it had "grave concerns in terms of public international law." The Court did not make it clear that, in its opinion, the war and the contributions to it by the German Federal Government were outright illegal.

In this minor criminal case the court decided not to convict a Major in the German Army of the crime of refusing duty that would advance the Iraq war. Nikolaus Schultz wrote of this decision: "The Court did not express an opinion as to whether the war on Iraq constituted an act of aggression in the first part of its judgement when dealing with the exceptions to the obligation of a German member of the Federal Armed Forces to obey orders. At a later stage in the written reasons, however, it jumped to the conclusion that a state that resorts to military force without justification and, therefore, violates the prohibition of the use of force provided for by Art. 2.4 of the Charter, at the same time commits an act of military aggression. The (non-binding) Definition of Aggression of the GA attached to UN General Assembly Resolution 3314 is broad enough to support this conclusion. However, it has to be recalled that the State Parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) could not agree on a definition of the crime of aggression."

Nikolaus Schultz wrote in summary of this case: "These findings were watered down to an extent by the Court when it used the cautious proviso that the actions of the states involved only gave rise to grave concerns before arguing the respective issues at stake. By doing that, the Court shifted the burden to the individual soldiers and their decision of conscience whether to obey an order rather than reaching the conclusion that participating in a war violating rules of international law, and even constituting an act of aggression, as the court held, would be illegal and, therefore, justify insubordination."

Netherlands
Following intelligence from the UK and US, the Dutch government supported the operation of the multinational force in 2003. In January 2010, in the Netherlands, the 10-month Davids Commission inquiry published its final report. The Commission had been tasked with investigating Dutch government decision-making on political support for the war in Iraq in 2003 . The inquiry by the Dutch commission was the first ever independent legal assessment of the invasion decision. The Dutch commissioners included the former president of the Supreme Court, a former judge of the European Court of Justice, and two academic lawyers.

According to the report, the Dutch cabinet failed to fully inform the House of Representatives that the allies' military action against Iraq "had no sound mandate under international law" and that the United Kingdom was instrumental in influencing the Dutch decision to back the war. It also emerged that the British government had refused to disclose a key document requested by the Dutch panel, a letter to Balkenende from Tony Blair, asking for the support. This letter was said to have been handed over in a "breach of diplomatic protocol" and therefore for Balkenende's eyes only.

In response, Balkenende stated that he had fully informed the House of Representatives about government support for the invasion, and that Saddam Hussein's repeated refusal to respect UN resolutions and cooperate with UN weapons inspectors had justified the invasion.

See also
Command responsibility
Criticism of the Iraq War
Human Rights Record of the United States
Human rights in post-invasion Iraq
International Criminal Court and the 2003 invasion of Iraq
Iraq War misappropriations
Laws of war
Legitimacy of the 2003 invasion of Iraq
List of United Nations Security Council resolutions concerning Iraq
List of Iraq War resisters
Opposition to the Iraq War
Protests against the Iraq War
Public relations preparations for 2003 invasion of Iraq
Rationale for the Iraq War
United Nations Security Council and the Iraq War
United States and the International Criminal Court
Views on the 2003 invasion of Iraq
Hussein Kamel al-Majid
 Legality of the Russian invasion of Ukraine

Notes

Legality of wars
Iraq War
Iraq War legal issues