[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# LGBT rights in Belgium

are also used to present the gay movement's political agenda in the form of a list of demands. The list has been updated a number of times and has included demands for anti-discrimination laws, inclusion of gay relationships in high school sex education and the right to adoption by same-sex parents.

In the 2007 march, some participants were seen with a banner "Thank you Verhofstadt!", in reference to the fact that same-sex marriage in Belgium and other LGBT reforms were realised by the first two governments of Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt (Open VLD), which respectively consisted of liberals, socialists and greens, and of liberals and socialists.

Prior to 1998, the marches were held under the name Roze Zaterdag – Samedi Rose ("Pink Saturday"). The name was adopted for the first ever Belgian demonstration march for gay rights in 1979, taken from the same-named series of Dutch marches which were first held in 1977. The 1979 march was organised on 5 May in Brussels, with subsequent marches the next two years in respectively Antwerp and Brussels again. After this first short series of annual events, it was only in 1990 that the decision was made to again organise the marches regularly, starting anew on 5 May in Antwerp and then bi-annually in Ghent and again in Antwerp. The latter choice of city was motivated by what is known as "Black Sunday", when the right-wing party Vlaams Blok (now Vlaams Belang) scored a major electoral victory in Antwerp. Then in 1996, "Pink Saturday" was moved indefinitely to Brussels, and became an annual event. The next year, the list of demands was for the first time prominently displayed on 10 large banners carried by participants throughout the march. In 1998, the name of the march was changed to Belgian Lesbian and Gay Pride (BLGP), and then in 2009 to Belgian Pride.

In 2013, Antwerp was the host city of the third World Outgames. The 2019 Belgian Pride parade was attended by an estimated 100,000 people.

Summary table

See also

 Human rights in Belgium
 LGBT rights in Europe
 LGBT rights in the European Union
 Genres Pluriels, an NGO active for gender fluid, transgender and intersex rights

References

External links

Official website of the Belgian Pride association
Official website of Çavaria. (in Dutch)
Official website of Arc-en-ciel Wallonie. (in French)
GayBelgium, gay news and lifestyle site
Official website of Weljongniethetero. (in Dutch)