[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of Maroun al-Ras

zbollah  fighters died in the battle. According to Hezbollah officials Maroun al-Ras was only defended by 17 soldiers, seven of whom died in the battle.

Hirsch had ordered the military police in Israel to prepare prisoner facilities for 100 prisoners. None were taken in the battle of Maroun al-Ras.

Aftermath
The battle of Maroun al-Ras became a watershed in the Lebanon war. After realizing that the standing army was not enough to defeat Hezbollah, Israel finally decided on July 22 to call in the reserves. This decision increased the options available to Israel and would eventually lead to the decision at the end of July to commence ground operations. Operation Change of Direction 8 was initiated on July 31 with the aim of taking control of a 6- to 8-kilometer-wide "security zone" along the entire Lebanese border, an aim that was never realized. On August 9 Israel launched Operation Changing Direction 11, which aimed at occupying South Lebanon up to the Litani river.

At Maroun al-Ras IDF experienced for the first time sustained Hezbollah attacks with anti-tank rockets and guided missiles and especially the deadly effect of the "swarming" technique. As a member of Egoz later told: "What can you do when a missile is being fired at you other than say your prayers?" IDF Northern command banned the introduction of vehicles to Lebanon, with exception of tanks and heavy APCs, such as the Achzarit. This would have a detrimental effect on IDF's ability to supply its troops later in the war. The battle at Maroun ar-Ras, however, showed that not even these heavy armored vehicles were invulnerable to Hezbollah missiles.

The most painful lesson that the IDF learnt at Maroun al-Ras was the deadly effectiveness of Hezbollah "Nature Reserves". After the battle the head of IDF Northern Command Maj. Gen. Udi Adam forbade any further attacks on Nature Reserves. "A nature reserve can swallow an entire battalion," he said. This prohibition would remain in force throughout the war and would to a large extent determine the outcome of the war. The well-entrenched Nature Reserves were not vulnerable to artillery or air bombardment. The decision not to attack these positions, sometimes only hundreds of meters from the Israeli border, made it possible for Hezbollah to continue firing rockets over Northern Israel throughout the war. Most of the short-range Katyusha rockets fired on Israel during the war were fired from Nature Reserves. Human Rights Watch concluded in a report that "Hezbollah stored most of its rockets in bunkers and weapon storage facilities located in uninhabited fields and valleys" and "fired the vast majority of its rockets from pre-prepared positions outside villages."

A report on the war written by the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee sharply criticized the decision not to attack Nature Reserves and claimed that it "played into Hezbollah's hands".

Israeli IDF fatalities 
Israel officially confirmed that eight soldiers were killed in the battle:

July 19, 2006
 St.-Sgt. Yonatan Hadasi (Maglan), 21, of Kibbutz Merhavia
 St.-Sgt. Yotam Gilboa (Maglan), 21, of Kibbutz Maoz Haim
July 20, 2006
 Maj. Benjamin (Benji) Hillman (Egoz), 27, of Maccabim Re'ut
 St.-Sgt. Refanael Muskal (Egoz), 21, of Mazkeret Batya
 St.-Sgt. Nadav Baeloha (Egoz), 21, of Karmiel
 St.-Sgt. Liran Saadia (Egoz), 21, of Kiryat Shmona
 St.-Sgt. Yonatan (Sergei) Vlasyuk (Egoz), 21, of Kibbutz Lahav
July 26, 2006
 Lt. Yiftah Shreirer (Paratroopers, Bat. 101), 21, of Haifa

Hezbollah fatalities 
Hezbollah reported losing 7 soldiers in the battle. The official Israeli account stated that 13 Hezbollah  fighters were counted killed. General Udi Adam claimed that Hezbollah's death toll was in fact higher, but could not be fully counted because he had ordered his soldiers not to risk their lives to recover enemy dead. An Israeli officer who took part in the battle estimated that at least 30 Hezbollah  fighters were killed.

Sources
Crooke, Alastair and Mark Perry, How Hezbollah Defeated Israel, Asia Times
PART 1: Winning the intelligence war, Oct 12, 2006
PART 2: Winning the ground war, Oct 13, 2006
PART 3: The political war, Oct 14, 2006
 Erlich, Dr. Reuven (Col. Ret.), "Hezbollah's use of Lebanese civilians as human shields", Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center at the Center for Special Studies (C.S.S), November 2006. [The study was supported by Military Intelligence, the Operations Division of the IDF General Staff, the IDF Spokesperson and the legal experts of the IDF and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.]

 Harel, Amos and Avi Issacharoff, 34 Days: Israel, Hezbollah, and the War in Lebanon, Palgrave Macmillan, New York, 2008 
 Rapaport, Amir: Friendly Fire, How We Failed Ourselves in the Second Lebanon War (עמיר רפפורט, "אש על כוחותינו: כך הכשלנו את עצמנו במלחמת לבנון השנייה"), Sifriya Ma'ariv (2007).

References

Battles of the 2006 Lebanon War
July 2006 events in Asia
Bint Jbeil District
Battles involving Israel