[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Policy Network

Policy Network was an international progressive think tank based in London. The President of Policy Network was former UK First Secretary of State and EU Trade Commissioner Lord Mandelson; Lord Liddle (former Special Adviser to President of the European Commission José Manuel Barroso) was Chairperson.

Policy Network sought to promote strategic thinking on progressive solutions to the challenges of the 21st century and the future of social democracy. It organized debates and conducted research on policy and political challenges.

In May 2021, Policy Network merged with Progress to form Progressive Britain.

Website
Policy Network's website hosted the Policy Network Observatory, a forum for ideas and policy debate. The Policy Network Observatory also hosted a monthly insight bulletin, The State of the Left, which included insider analyses of the political climate in a number of countries around the world. In 2010, Policy Network launched its opinion poll tracker, which tracked the fortunes of Europe's social democratic parties on a cross-comparative basis. Many articles on the Policy Network Observatory had been re-published by the New Statesman and The Guardian and some were translated into French at Toute L’Europe and Spanish at Agenda Pública and promoted by Policy Network's partner organisations in Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Sweden, Spain, and Italy.

Work programmes

Under conditions of globalisation and European integration, the distinction between national and international problems has become increasingly blurred. Understanding the relationship between the domestic and the international informs Policy Network's work across three areas:
 The renewal of social democracy
 Europe's economic and social models
 The politics of multi-level governance and institutional reform

Specific topics include: welfare state and labour market reform, globalisation, European Union, economic governance, industrial policy, climate change and energy, and migration and integration.

Current or recent projects include economic and public service reform; migration, integration and political trust; and the future of the post-financial crisis global economy.

Progressive Governance Network 

The Progressive Governance Network, for which Policy Network acts as the secretariat, brings together progressive heads of state, government ministers, politicians and intellectuals from across the world to address the challenges of globalization. The network's stated goal is to enhance co-operation and links between key progressive policymakers and academics as well as to provide a meeting place for exchanging concrete policies and practices. The Progressive Governance Network was launched in 1999 by U.S. President Bill Clinton, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Tony Blair, Chancellor of Germany Gerhard Schröder, Prime Minister of the Netherlands Wim Kok, and Prime Minister of Italy Massimo D'Alema.

Since its formation in 1999, Progressive Governance conferences have been held in Chile, the United Kingdom, the United States, South Africa, Germany, Norway and Sweden. These conferences have often been hosted by incumbent heads of state including; Chilean President, Michelle Bachelet in 2009; UK Prime Minister, Gordon Brown in 2010; Norwegian Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg in 2011, and Irish Tánaiste Eamon Gilmore in 2012. Participants have included Brazilian presidents Fernando Henrique Cardoso and Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva; U.S. Vice President Joe Biden; Director-General of the World Trade Organization Pascal Lamy; and Spanish Prime Minister José Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. The 2013 Progressive Governance conference was hosted by the Prime Minister of Denmark Helle Thorning-Schmidt in Copenhagen in April 2013.

Board members

President

Peter Mandelson, Baron Mandelson: Former UK first secretary of state, business secretary and EU Trade commissioner

Co-Chairs

 Roger Liddle, Baron Liddle: Labour front bench spokesperson on Europe in the House of Lords.
 Patrick Diamond: Senior research fellow at Policy Network and former head of long-term policy in the UK Prime Minister's Office, 10 Downing Street. Formerly group director of policy at the Equality and Human Rights Commission.

Board