[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Mexico–United States relations

uthorities on procedures performed on migrants in these facilities, after allegations that six Mexican women were sterilized without their consent. Another women said she had undergone a gynecological operation, although there was nothing in her detention file to support she agreed to the procedure.

In October 2020, retired Secretary of National Defense Salvador Cienfuegos was arrested by U.S. officials at Los Angeles International Airport on alleged drug and money-laundering charges. General Cienfuegos's arrest infuriated President Obrador, who was particularly riled that Mexican officials had not been informed about the investigation into the general. Cienfuegos was cleared of all charges on 14 January 2021, and Obrador said the accusations against him was politically motivated. The U.S. Justice Department threatened to restart prosecution if Mexico didn't prosecute him.

Biden administration 

On February 25, 2021, it was announced that through the Merida Initiative, the United States and Mexico have forged a partnership to combat transnational organized crime and drug trafficking while strengthening human rights and the rule of law. Merida promotes greater cooperation between U.S. and Mexican law enforcement, prosecutors and judges as they share best practices and expand capabilities to track criminals, drugs, weapons and money to disrupt the business model of transnational criminal organizations.

In March, the Biden administration confirmed it would not be sharing its COVID-19 vaccines with Mexico, according to White House press secretary Jen Psaki ahead of Biden's first bilateral meeting with Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador. “The president has made clear that he is focused on ensuring vaccines are accessible to every American.” When Biden took office, Mexico had sought more cooperation with the US to increase Mexico's access to COVID-19 vaccine supplies.

In May, US regulators banned Mexican airlines from expanding new service or routes in the country. The FAA claimed there were "several areas" where the country did not meet aviation standards. President Obrador stated, "We have been complying with all the requirements. We feel that this decision should not be carried out." further stating the move appeared to help US airlines. "They are the ones who benefit and the national airlines could be harmed." As Mexico's airlines focused on domestic flights, the US ban was expected to have less impact. 

In July 2021, President López Obrador blamed the US embargo against Cuba for contributing to the unrest in Cuba. The foreign ministry sent two navy ships with food and medical supplies to assist Cuba.

In September 2021, Mexico sued US-based gunmakers for trafficking guns into the country. The lawsuit stated guns from America are more likely to kill Mexican citizens than American citizens. US laws however protect gun makers from civil liability and prevents victims from suing manufacturers.

In January 2023, President Joe Biden traveled to Mexico to attend the North American Leaders' Summit in Mexico City.

In April 2023, Mexico's President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said during a news conference that Mexico would not tolerate any spying on his government by the United States, which had resulted in leaks being published by the Washington Post.

In 2023, Republican members of the US Congress threatened to invade Mexico to stop cartels, but was noted by others as attempted resource extraction. Mexican President Obrador has stated that "We are not going to permit any foreign government to intervene in our territory, much less that a government's armed forces..."

Gallery

Diplomatic missions

of the United States in Mexico

 Mexico City (Embassy)
 Ciudad Juárez (Consulate General)
 Guadalajara (Consulate General)
 Hermosillo (Consulate General)
 Matamoros (Consulate General)
 Mérida (Consulate General)
 Monterrey (Consulate General)
 Nogales (Consulate General)
 Nuevo Laredo (Consulate General)
 Tijuana (Consulate General)
 Acapulco (Consular Agency)
 Cabo San Lucas (Consular Agency)
 Cancún (Consular Agency)
 Mazatlán (Consular Agency)
 Oaxaca (Consular Agency)
 Piedras Negras (Consular Agency)
 Playa del Carmen (Consular Agency)
 Puerto Vallarta (Consular Agency)
 San Miguel de Allende (Consular Agency)

of Mexico in the United States