[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Virginia State Navy

rged most of its seamen. A few ships were fitted out in 1782 and 1783, but with the conclusion of the 1783 Treaty of Paris, all but two were sold. The Liberty and the Patriot were retained as revenue cutters into 1787. The Liberty was one of the longest-serving ships of the Patriot cause in the war.

American Civil War
The Provisional Navy of Virginia was established by an ordinance of the Convention of Virginia on April 27, 1861, when Virginia seceded from the Union. The ordinance called for the enlistment of two thousand seamen and marines to serve terms of three and four years respectively. As a result of a shortage of warships, most of these seamen were employed in the construction and manning of harbor and coastal defense batteries. When Virginia joined the Confederate States of America, Governor John Letcher issued a proclamation on 6 June 1861, transferring "all officers, seamen, and marines of the Provisional Navy of Virginia" and they were absorbed into the Confederate States Navy. One of the Virginia's first actions following secession was to appoint Robert E. Lee as commander in chief of the military and naval forces of Virginia.

The only flag officer of the second Virginia Navy was Commodore French Forrest, a former officer of the United States Navy. Its headquarters were the naval base at Norfolk, Virginia, which had been abandoned by Union forces on April 20, 1861.

Noteworthy officers 
Former members of the United States Navy who would play a significant role in the American Civil War:

 Samuel Barron
 John Mercer Brooke
 Franklin Buchanan (commanded the ironclads  and )
 French Forrest
 Catesby ap Roger Jones
 Sydney Smith Lee
 William Francis Lynch
 Matthew Fontaine Maury
 Robert Dabney Minor (flag officer in the 1st attack by the ironclad )
Thomas J. Page
 William Harwar Parker
 Robert B. Pegram
 Thomas R. Rootes
 James H. Rochelle
 John Randolph Tucker
 William C. Whittle

Ships in service 
In order to create a navy to defend Richmond, the Navy Department salvaged the frigate USS United States, which became a receiving ship. Additionally, Virginia purchased several steamers including the Empire, Northampton, Thomas Reaney, Jamestown, and the Yorktown, which was renamed Patrick Henry as the flagship of the James River Squadron.

At the time when it turned over its military to the Confederate States, the Virginia Navy had the following ships:

 USS United States, rechristened CSS Confederate States
 CSS George Page
 CSS Logan
 CSS Northampton
 CSS Teaser
 CSS Jamestown
 CSS Patrick Henry

Notes

References 

  This work contains summary information on each of the various state navies in the revolution.

Navy
Navy
Confederate States Navy
Military units and formations established in 1861
Navy
Military units and formations of the United States in the American Revolutionary War
Military units and formations established in 1775
Disbanded navies
1861 establishments in Virginia