[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Moses in rabbinic literature

and placed him within it. When he reached heaven the angels asked God: "What does this man, born of woman, desire among us?" God replied that Moses had come to receive the Torah, whereupon the angels claimed that God ought to give the Torah to them and not to men. Then God told Moses to answer them.

Moses was afraid that the angels might burn him with the breath of their mouths; but God told him to take hold of the throne of glory. Moses then proved to the angels that the Torah was not suited to them, since they had no passions to be subdued by it. The angels thereupon became very friendly with Moses, each one of them giving him something.

The angel of death confided to him the fact that incense would prevent the plague. Moses subsequently caused Aaron to employ this preventive. Moses, following the custom of the angels, ate nothing during his forty days' sojourn in heaven, feeding only on the splendor of the Shekinah. He distinguished day from night by the fact that God instructed him by day in the Torah, and by night in the Mishnah. God taught him also everything which every student would discover in the course of time. When Moses first learned the Torah he soon forgot it; it was then bestowed upon him as a gift and he did not again forget it.

The people worship the Golden Calf

The Torah was intended originally only for Moses and his descendants; but he was liberal enough to give it to the people of Israel, and God approved the gift. According to another version, God gave the Torah to the Israelites for Moses' sake. Moses' burnt tongue was healed when he received the Law.

As Moses was writing down the Torah, upon reaching the passage "Let us make man", he said to God, "Why dost thou give the heretics the opportunity of construing these words to mean a plurality of gods?" whereupon God replied: "Let those err that will". When Moses saw God write the words erekh appayim ("long-suffering"; Exodus 34:6), and asked whether God was long-suffering toward the pious only, God answered, "Toward sinners also." When Moses said that sinners ought to perish, God answered, "You yourself will soon ask me to be long-suffering toward sinners". This happened soon after Israel had made the golden calf. Before Moses ascended to heaven he said that he would descend on the forenoon of the forty-first day. On that day Satan confused the world so that it appeared to be afternoon to the Israelites. Satan told them that Moses had died, and was thus prevented from punctually fulfilling his promise. He showed them a form resembling Moses suspended in the air, whereupon the people made the golden calf. When, in consequence of this, Moses was obliged to descend from heaven, he saw the angels of destruction, who were ready to destroy him. He was afraid of them; for he had lost his power over the angels when the people made the golden calf. God, however, protected him.

When Moses came down with the tables and saw the calf, he said to himself: "If I now give to the people the tablets, on which the interdiction against idolatry is written, they will deserve death for having made and worshiped the golden calf." In compassion for the Israelites he broke the tablets, in order that they might not be held responsible for having transgressed the command against idolatry. Moses now began to pray for the people, showing thereby his heroic, unselfish love for them. Gathering from the words "Let me" that Israel's fate depended on him and his prayer, he began to defend them. He said that Israel, having been sojourning in Egypt, where idolatry flourished, had become accustomed to this kind of worship, and could not easily be brought to desist from it. Moreover, God Himself had afforded the people the means of making the golden calf, since he had given them much gold and silver. Furthermore, God had not forbidden Israel to practise idolatry, for the singular and not the plural was used in Exodus 20:2-5, referring, therefore, only to Moses.

Moses and Israel

Moses refused God's offer to make him the ancestor of a great people, since he was afraid that it would be said that the leader of Israel had sought his own glory and advantage and not that of the people. He, in fact, delivered himself to death for the people. For love of the Israelites he went so far as to count himself among the sinners, saying to God: "This calf might be an assistant God and help in ruling the world." When God reproved him with having himself gone astray and with believing in the golden calf, he said: "Lord, why doth thy wrath wax hot against thy people". Moses atoned for the sin of making the calf; he even atoned for all the sins of humanity down to his time, freeing men from their burden of sin.