[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2002 BDO World Darts Championship

ampion Trina Gulliver on 2 December 2001, on the day of the final of the 2001 World Masters. It was broadcast live on the BBC sport programme Sunday Grandstand. The first round of the competition, in which 32 players participated, took place from 5 to 7 January and was held to the best-of-five sets.

In this round Walton whitewashed the four-time semi-finalist Andy Fordham 3–0. Walton led 1–0 before Fordham took a solitary leg in the second set. He then claimed the third set to eliminate Fordham in the first round for the first time in his eighth appearance in the tournament. The 1998 tournament semi-finalist Colin Monk overcame Tony O'Shea 3–2. Monk was two legs behind when he won three in a row to claim the first set. O'Shea won three consecutive legs for the second set and level the score before Monk won the third to go 2–1 ahead. O'Shea forced a final set decider that Monk won after O'Shea missed five attempts on a double ring. Gary Anderson won with scorelines of 3–1 in the first two sets against Nagy and whitewashed him 3–0 in the third set. Van Barneveld defeated George 3–1 to stop the latter from becoming the tournament's oldest winner aged 57. He began with a maximum en route to claiming the first and second sets. George had a failed attempt at a nine-dart finish in the third set. He recovered to claim the set after five legs. George led the fourth set before Van Barneveld won the match.

Eighth seed Wayne Mardle completed a 3–0 whitewash of Richardson 3–0 in the fifth leg of the third set. Welge and Erik Clarys tied 1–1 before the latter won a low-scoring third set. A 141 checkout from Welge elongated the match until Clarys hit the double eight and four rings to win 3–1. Vincent van der Voort led 1–0 over Suljović, who took sets two and three. Suljović attempted a nine-dart finish in set four until he missed the treble 17 ring. He then took the following two legs before Van Der Voort forced a final set decider that Suljović won for a 3–2 victory. Fourth seed Mervyn King defeated Stewart 3–1; King twisted his left knee as he retrieved his darts from the board after the first set. He played with a limp for the rest of the game and sought treatment afterwards. Korhohen, the youngest player in the competition's history at 18 years and 50 days, lost 3–1 to Steve Coote from scores of 3–1 and 3–2 in sets two and three.

Adams compiled scores of 3–0 and 3–1 to lead 2–0 over Johnstone. He completed a 3–0 whitewash after defeating Johnstone 3–2 in the third set. Ted Hankey, the 2000 champion and seventh seed, defeated Jarkko Komula 3–2. Both players equalled the score and forced the game to enter a final set decider that Hankey won 3–0. Afterwards Komula said he was annoyed because he was not informed of tournament organisers moving the game's start time by two hours to allow it to be televised. Jones twice recovered from being one set behind Tony Eccles to win 3–2. Mike Veitch, who participated in the competition for the first time since the 1990 edition, was whitewashed 3–0 by Co Stompé after protracted play. Sixth seed Bob Taylor progressed to the second round for the first time since the 1994 championship with a 3–0 victory over Ferrell with a match-winning 102 checkout.

Tony David, who has the blood-clotting disorder haemophilia which prevents him from straightening his throwing arm, beat Ritchie Davies, the tournament's sole Welsh player, 3–1. Davies led 1–0 early on and David won the next three sets to enter the next round. The final first round match was played between third seed Marko Pusa and Matt Clark. Pusa took the first set 3–1 and won the second unchallenged. Clark claimed set three 3–0 before Pusa took the fourth set to complete a 3–1 victory.

Second round

The second round was held from 8 to 9 January. Van Barneveld took 21 minutes to whitewash Clarys 3–0 and was the first player to reach the quarter-finals; he lost two legs to Clarys. Monk won 3–2 over Walton. His opponent claimed the first set before Monk secured the following two sets to lead 2–1. Walton drew level with Monk 2–2 after his opponent missed the double 18 ring in the fourth set's final leg. This caused the match to conclude with a final set decider, which Monk won 3–2 to progress to the second round after a 116 checkout and a double 10 finish. Walton said afterwards he was uncertain whether the strain of attempting to win the tournament for a second time or a minor repetitive strain injury on his wrists contributed to his loss against Monk.