[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Struma motorway

partially financed by The Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession (ISPA) and the Daskalovo-Dolna Dikanya section of the highway received a loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB).

The construction of the complete motorway is estimated to cost 1.2 billion €.

Exits

Lyulin motorway

The Lyulin motorway (, ) was a motorway in Bulgaria, that provided a link between the western arc of the Sofia ringroad and the Daskalovo interchange, at the town of Pernik, where it merged with Struma motorway (A3). The total length of the motorway was around , which made it the shortest motorway in Bulgaria. It ran through mountainous terrain and needed several tunnels and many viaducts in order to avoid ecological, environmental and terrain issues.

On 8 August 2006, a contract for the construction of the motorway was signed with the Turkish consortium Mapa Cengiz for 137,381,785 euro. The construction began in 2007 and was scheduled to be finished in 38 months. However, in 2010 the initial deadline was postponed for May 2011 and the price rose to 185,000,000 euro. The Lyulin motorway was launched on 15 May 2011 and thus became the first fully operating motorway in Bulgaria.

The highway was named after the Lyulin Mountain through which it passed. The largest neighborhood of Sofia from which the highway started is also named Lyulin.

Incidents and accidents
On 17 April 2010, during construction of a concrete element of the motorway, the supporting structure holding an area where concrete was being poured collapsed, killing three workers and seriously injuring further 7. The incident occurred between 9:30pm and 10:00pm at the 13.7th kilometre of the motorway, near the village of Golyamo Buchino. Four workers were transported to Pirogov Hospital, whilst the remaining six were sent to hospital in Pernik, where two of the workers died. A third died the following day, also in Pernik. All of the casualties were working for the Turkish construction firm Mapa-Dzhengiz. A formal investigation into the cause of the accident has been launched.

On 23 November 2021, a North Macedonian bus carrying 52 passengers and 2 bus drivers crashed into a barrier on the motorway near the village of Bosnek, 44.2 km south from Sofia, while going back to the North Macedonian capital of Skopje from a weekend trip in Istanbul. The bus caught on fire before or after it crashed. 45 people, including 12 children, died in the crash, and 7 were hospitalized after escaping through the windows of the burning bus.

Gallery

Gallery

References

External links
 Lyulin motorway at Road Infrastructure Agency (in Bulgarian)

Motorways in Bulgaria
Proposed roads in Bulgaria