[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Papu Gómez

onza
On 29 September 2023, Gomez joined Italian club Monza on a free transfer.

On 20 October 2023, Monza announced that Gómez had been found to have failed an anti-doping test, resulting in a two-year ban for the player. Gómez took the drug terbutaline in October 2022, during his time with Sevilla.

International career

In 2007, Gómez was picked to represent the Argentina Under-20 team at the 2007 South American Youth Championship in Paraguay. Later that year he was in the Argentina squad that won the 2007 FIFA U-20 World Cup in Canada.

Having only played internationally for Argentina at youth level, dual citizenship was widely believed to have qualified him for selection to the senior Italy national team, for whom he had expressed interest in playing. FIFA has since ruled him ineligible to switch his football nationality, however, because he did not have a dual passport when he first represented Argentina at that level, and does not have Italian lineage, which would have allowed him to override this requirement.

On 19 May 2017, Gómez received his first senior call-up by newly appointed coach Jorge Sampaoli for Argentina's friendlies against Brazil and Singapore in June. He made his senior international debut in the match against Singapore on 13 June, helping Argentina to a 6–0 away win, and also marked his debut by scoring his first international goal, while also setting up a goal for Federico Fazio during the same match. He went to make three more international appearances that year.

In June 2021, Gómez was included in Argentina's squad for the 2021 Copa América in Brazil. On 21 June, he scored the only goal of the match in Argentina's third group match against Paraguay; the result allowed his side to progress to the quarter-finals. A week later, he scored again in a 4–1 win against Bolivia in his team's final group stage match, also helping to win a penalty, which was converted by Lionel Messi.
He was included in Argentina's final 26-man squad for the 2022 FIFA World Cup, starting his nations's opening game as they went all the way to win a third world title after defeating France on penalties in the final.

Style of play
A talented, diminutive player, with quick feet, explosive acceleration, and a low centre of gravity, Gómez is a creative, technically gifted, and dynamic footballer, who is renowned for his pace, dribbling skills, and high work-rate.

Possessing good movement and a powerful and accurate long range shot with either foot, he is known for his eye for goal from midfield, although he is also capable of creating goalscoring opportunities for teammates. A versatile attacker, he is capable of playing in several offensive positions, and has even been deployed as a main striker on occasion, or as a false 9, although he usually plays as a second striker, in a central playmaking role as an attacking midfielder, or as a winger, usually on the left flank, a position which enables him to take on defenders in one on one situations, cut into the centre onto his stronger right foot, and attempt a curling shot at goal, although he was often used on the right wing earlier in his career. Due to his stamina and work-ethic, he has also been deployed in a box-to-box role on occasion. In recent seasons, he has often operated in a free attacking role in the centre, behind another striker, which enables him to link-up with his teammates, roam the pitch at will, change positions with other forwards, lose his markers by dropping off onto the flanks, or find space in the box with his runs and finish off chances; Gómez has described this role as a "false second striker". He is also an accurate free kick taker, and often takes penalties for his team. In addition to his playing ability, Gómez is also known for his leadership qualities, having served as Atalanta's captain.

Career statistics

Club

International

Scores and results list Argentina's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Gómez goal.

Personal life
Gómez's uncle is former Club Atlético Independiente defender Hugo Villaverde, who is his mother's brother. Gómez is married to Linda Raff, with whom he has three children. 

Gómez is a dual citizen of Argentina and Italy, having been granted an Italian passport during his time at Atalanta.

In October 2023, he was banned for two years after testing positive for a banned substance ahead of the 2022 World Cup.

Honours
Arsenal de Sarandí
Copa Sudamericana: 2007
Suruga Bank Championship: 2008
Sevilla

 UEFA Europa League: 2022–23

Argentina U20
FIFA U-20 World Cup: 2007

Argentina
FIFA World Cup: 2022
Copa América: 2021 
CONMEBOL–UEFA Cup of Champions: 2022

Individual
Serie A top assist provider: 2018–19, 2019–20
Serie A Player of the Month: June 2020, September 2020
Serie A Best Midfielder: 2019–20
UEFA Champions League Squad of the Season: 2019–20
 Serie A Team of the Year: 2019–20

Notes

References

External links