[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Finlay Macdonald (minister)

lasgow.

Macdonald had an advantage over the other three candidates. In general, most holders of the office of Principal Clerk have become Moderator.  Macdonald had become well-known and widely respected in the Church of Scotland.  Noted commentator Stewart Lamont wrote about Macdonald's nomination:

It was inevitable the widely-respected Finlay Macdonald would be proposed at some time.  As secretary to each Moderator, he knows the job as well as any, and since the Queen will act as her own Lord High Commissioner next year, a safe pair of hands is needed. The current edition of Life and Work contains an article by Finlay Macdonald on the need to share out leadership responsibilities. Good timing or coincidence? Although classifiable as Old Kirk moderate, the current PC is PC on the subject of women in the ministry. When a parish minister in Jordanhill, he once demanded that a minister with fundamentalist views on women elders be required to pledge he would not veto women if he was inducted to another Glasgow parish.

There was a 75% chance that the 2002 Moderator would have a Glasgow connection. Macdonald was announced the Moderator Designate on 20 October 2001, ending speculation that The Kirk was ready to appoint its first female moderator. Although some were disappointed that a woman was not chosen, most believe that the proper choice had been made. Macdonald himself was gracious and understanding of the importance of gender and the Moderator position saying, "Clearly I don't know what considerations swayed the nomination committee today. I am just very honoured. I would be delighted to see a woman as moderator and hope that will happen."

In December 2001, Macdonald was appointed a Chaplain to the Queen in Scotland.

Moderator: 25 May 2002 – 24 May 2003 
In May 2002, Macdonald's nomination for the one-year post went before the General Assembly and, as expected, Macdonald succeeded John Miller as Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland on Saturday, 25 May 2002. The Queen did not install Macdonald as the Moderator, but only observed the ceremony.

At the time Macdonald took up the office of Moderator, the total population of the Church had fallen steadily from 5.21 million in 1971 to 5.11 million in 2002. As the new Moderator, Macdonald saw the primary task for the Church of Scotland as becoming more appealing to a younger audience to turn this tide of more than 30 years of falling congregations.

In June 2002, Macdonald received an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from the University of St Andrews. During his speech, Macdonald rejected the idea of creating more faith, church and culture-based schools in favor of existing schools educating pupils within a moral and spiritual framework.

Post Moderator 
The moderatorship is for one year only; Macdonald was succeeded by Professor Iain R. Torrance in May 2003. Macdonald returned to his role as Principal Clerk to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland and as an honorary Chaplain to the Queen in Scotland. He is an active member of ACTS (Action of Churches Together in Scotland), CTBI (Churches Together in Britain and Ireland). He was also formerly a member of EECCS (European Ecumenical Commission on Church and Society).

His formal title (following the end of his Moderatorial year) is the Very Reverend Dr Finlay Macdonald.

He retired in 2010 and was succeeded as Principal Clerk by the Rev John Chalmers.

Footnotes and references
(Note: Most references archived at Church of Scotland Extranet search.) Obtained 3 November 2006.

Publications
Macdonald, Finlay A. J. (May 2001).  Deliverances of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland: Special Commission Anent Review and Reform in the Church. A Church Without Walls. 
Children at the Table.  (1982) David G. Hamilton (Editor); Finlay J. Macdonald (Editor).  Publisher: Church of Scotland Date Published: 
Luke Paul.  (2012); Finlay J. Macdonald.  Publisher: Shoving Leopard Productions Date Published:

See also
List of Moderators of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland

External links
Council of Assembly

Moderators of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland
People educated at the High School of Dundee
Alumni of the University of St Andrews
Living people
1945 births
People associated with Dundee
20th-century Ministers of the Church of Scotland
21st-century Ministers of the Church of Scotland