[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Samata (NGO)

Samata is an India-based non-governmental organization that focuses on advocacy and development issues among tribal communities in Andhra Pradesh. Samata aims to help tribal groups address problems of land alienation, displacement, and political dis-empowerment. Its mission is to uphold the traditional, constitutional, and human rights of the tribal or adivasi people.

Samata focuses primarily on projects in the tribal villages of East Godavari and Vizag districts in the state of Andhra Pradesh, India. This region forms a part of the Eastern Ghats range of mountains.

History
Samata achieved NGO status in 1990 and has become one of the primary advocates for tribal and adivasi rights in India. It continually expanded as an organization, taking on new campaigns and issues as the demand for its services grew in the 1990s and into the new millennium.

Beginning
In 1987 Samata was formed to mobilize groups of tribal and rural youth against exploitation by non-tribal people and address the government's negligence towards villages of Mallapuram, East Godavari District of Andhra Pradesh. Samata applied tribal land protection laws to prevent further abuse of tribal land rights, and they eventually won the implementation of government programs in 49 villages of the area that led to the construction of primary schools, housing, roads, drinking water projects, and electricity grids.

Samata was formally registered as a non-government organization in August 1990 under the Indian Societies Registration Act.

Growth
New projects and campaigns followed the early actions in Mallapuram. Samata organized communities in the hills of Poolabanda, Andhra Pradesh and facilitated an ongoing dialogue with government officials covering primary education, development projects, and environmental rights. In Sovva, Orissa Samata helped farmers form the Vegetable Growers’ Cooperative and successfully lobby the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) for assistance with the transportation of their goods to the market.

Samatha judgment
During an organizing session on tribal land alienation in January 1993, villagers informed Samata of mining companies acquiring tribal land specifically protected by the Fifth Schedule of the Indian Constitution referring to Scheduled Tribes. Samata mobilized a grassroots movement among villagers in the affected areas and began a legal battle that same year.

They filed a case in the local court and again in the High Court against the Government of A.P for leasing tribal lands to private mining companies in the scheduled areas. The High Court dismissed the case after which Samata filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court of India. In July 1997 by a three judge-bench. In its final verdict the Supreme Court of India declared that the term ‘person’ would include both natural persons as well as juristic persons, including constitutional governments, and that all lands leased by the government or its agencies to private mining companies in the scheduled areas were null and void.

It also held that transfer of land to the government or its instrumentalities is an
entrustment of public property. Since public corporations function in public interest, such transfers were upheld.

Community development focus
For the last ten years Samata has focused on community-based development with the following objectives:
 Assist tribal people in obtaining basic development and infrastructure facilities for education, health care, drinking water, and housing.
 Encourage sustainable development with regard to forests and other natural resources.
 Raise consciousness of legal rights among tribal groups.
 Organize tribal communities to resist exploitation, assert their rights and control their natural resources.
 Promote accountable, grassroots-level institutions for socio-economic independence and self-governance.

Problems and issues
 Land alienation, exploitation by non-tribal groups, industrialization and displacement, state violation of constitutional and protective legislation.
 Loss of control over natural resources and rights to decision-making  
 Economic exploitation and abuse by moneylenders and traders 
 Deforestation and indiscriminate plunder of natural resources through ill-conceived development policies of the state 
 Government negligence and lack of infrastructure facilities to the tribal groups whose basic needs are scarcely addressed; 
 Ill-health and inaccessibility of health services resulting in high mortality; 
 Inadequate and substandard educational facilities to the tribal children with a very high drop out rate particularly of girls.