[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Local development framework

A local development framework is the spatial planning strategy introduced in England and Wales by the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 and given detail in Planning Policy Statements 12. In most parts of the two countries, maintaining the framework is the responsibility of English district councils and Welsh principal area councils.

Background

Planning Policy Statement 12: Creating Strong Safe and Prosperous Communities through Local Spatial Planning (commonly abbreviated as PPS 12), is a document produced by the British Government that sets out the Government's policy on the preparation of local development documents which will comprise the local development framework. The current version was introduced in June 2008 and replaces the original PPS 12: Local Development Frameworks which was produced in 2004.

The local development framework replaces the previous system of county level structure plans and district level local plans, and unitary development plans for unitary authorities.

The previous system was perceived as being too inflexible and difficult to change in a timely manner. The local development framework system is intended to improve this situation by replacing the old plans with a new portfolio of local development documents that can be tailored to suit the different needs of a particular area and can be easily updated.

The frameworks were prepared within a regional spatial strategy (RSS) prepared for each region by the Secretary of State (specifically the Deputy Prime Minister). Local development frameworks were required to have regard to the RSS until they were abolished in 2010.

All PPS were replaced by the National Planning Policy Framework in 2012. Chapter 3 sets out the requirements for plan-making.

Composition
The local development documents taken as a whole must set out the authority's policies relating to the development and use of land in their area. In the case of LDDs included in a minerals and waste development scheme, the LDDs together must also set out the authority's policies relating to minerals and waste development.

Each framework will be a folder containing a number of inter-related documents. The Core Strategy, development plan documents and statement of community involvement are compulsory, with other documents being optional.

Local development scheme
This is a public 'project plan' which identify which local development documents will be produced, in what order and when. The local development scheme acts as the starting point for the community and stakeholders to find out about the local authority's planning policies in respect to a particular place or issue, and what the status of those policies is. It also outlines the details of, and timetable for the production of all documents that make up the local development framework over a three-year period. All local authorities submitted their local development schemes to the Secretary of State by the end of March 2005

Development plan documents

These include the Core Strategy Document and the Local Plan.

Statement of community involvement
The SCI should explain to the public how they will be involved in the preparation of the framework. They should set out the standards to be met by the authority in terms of community involvement, building upon the minimum requirements set out in the Regulations and PPS 12. Prior to the statement being adopted, local authorities must ensure that any plan preparation work meets these minimum requirements.

A key outcome of the SCI will be to encourage 'front loading' meaning that consultation with the public begins at the earliest stages of each document's development so that communities are given the fullest opportunity to participate in plan making and to make a difference.

Annual monitoring report
The Annual Monitoring Report is submitted to Government by a local planning authority at the end of December each year to assess the progress and the effectiveness of a Local Development Framework, specifically:
 Are policies achieving their objectives, and is sustainable development being delivered?
 Have policies had the intended consequences?
 Are the assumptions and objectives behind policies still relevant?
 Are the targets set in the Local Development Framework being achieved?

To achieve this goal, the Annual Monitoring Report includes a range of local and standard (Core Output) indicators.