[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Paper Dolls (film)

Paper Dolls (, Bubot Niyar) is a 2006 documentary by Israeli director Tomer Heymann, which follows the lives of transgender migrant workers from the Philippines who work as health care providers for elderly Orthodox Jewish men and perform as drag queens during their spare time. It also delves into the lives of societal outcasts who search for freedom and acceptance.

In 2013, the story was adapted as a musical and produced at the Tricycle Theatre in London.

Story
The documentary followed five Filipino transsexuals, each in different stage of gender transition and often referred to by their feminine names, who have emigrated to Israel to work as health care providers for elderly Orthodox Jewish men. Religious rules forbid the Orthodox men from being touched by women, so their carers must be male. On their nights off, the transsexuals perform in Tel Aviv nightclubs as a drag group called "Paper Dolls". They are among 300,000 foreign immigrants who came to Israel in the wake of the Second Intifada to fill lowly jobs that had been handled by Palestinians. Their status is precarious because they cannot file for citizenship and their visas are revoked if they lose their jobs. Although the task of taking care of the elderly is not easy, the liberal atmosphere of their adopted country has allowed the Paper Dolls to be free, despite being viewed as outsiders, and they are able to earn enough money to send support to their families in the Philippines.

A main story told in the documentary concerns the relationship between Sally and her elderly ward Chaim, who lost his voice due to throat cancer. He urges her to learn Hebrew by having her recite a poem written by Yehuda Amichai, while he basks in Sally's warmth and wit. In contrast, when the Paper Dolls were arranged for an audition at TLV—the largest nightclub in Tel Aviv—the booker instead relegated them as geishas. They would bow by the entrance and were described by the booker, as well as other drag queens, as "unprofessional" and "fit only for a bus stop".

Participants
Salvador "Sally" Camatoy
Chiqui Diokno
Giorgio Diokno
Francisco "Cheska" P. Ortiz Jr.
Toran "Jan" Jacob Libas
Efrenito "Nits" Manalili
Jose "Neil" T. Datinguinoo
Eduardo "Rika" Javar (died during production)
Chaim Amir (died during production)
Noa Heymann

Production
The documentary, shot for a span of five years and 320 hours of videotape, was distilled from a six-part Israeli TV feature produced by Claudius Films, Ltd., Heymann Brothers Films, and Switzerland-based LM Media GmbH, in association with The Film Sales Company, through the research of Levin. Andrew Harwitz and Maja Hoffman were its associate and executive producers respectively. Additional cinematography were done by Levin, Heymann, Daniel Miran, and Gonen Glazer. Asaf Billet provided the graphic design. Alex Claudius served as the interviewer of the participants.

Releases
Paper Dolls was shown around the film festival circuit, first in Berlin International Film Festival on February 9, 2006, then debuted in the United States at SILVERDOCS: AFI/Discovery Channel Documentary Festival on June 15 that same year. Its US theatrical premiere was held on September 6, 2006, in New York City's Film Forum. The documentary was also commercially released in Switzerland, 15 US states, and Tel Aviv.

Before its second release in the Philippines at the 2007 Israeli Film Festival, Paper Dolls was given an "X" rating by the country's Movie and Television Review and Classification Board, which would make it "unfit for public viewing" despite already being shown in a public cinema in Makati during the 2006 Cinemanila International Film Festival. The organizers of the Israeli Film Festival decided the film be shown in various universities around Metro Manila.  The Region 1 DVD of Paper Dolls was released on March 13, 2007.

Reception