[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 188]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ean. What is called making the best of it, would testify
all the wrong way. My life, instead of being a warning, would be a sort
of a trap. Let me at least play the humble rôle of scarecrow. I am in
excellent condition for it," she added, grasping her thin wrist.

Algitha shook her head anxiously.

"I fear," she said, "that the moral that most people will draw will be:
'Follow in the path of Mrs. Gordon, however distasteful it may seem to
you, and whatever temptations you feel towards a more independent life.
If you don't, you will come to grief.'"

"Then you think it would be better to be 'resigned,' and look after
one's own soul?"

"Heaven knows what would be better!" Algitha exclaimed. "But one thing
is certain, you ought to look after your body, for the present at any
rate."




CHAPTER L.


Hadria had found the autumn saddening, and the winter tempt her to
morbid thoughts, but the coming of spring made her desperate. It would
not allow her to be passive, it would not permit her emotions to lie
prone and exhausted. Everything was waking, and she must wake too, to
the bitterest regret and the keenest longings of which she was capable.

She had tried to avoid everything that would arouse these futile
emotions; she had attempted to organise her life on new lines,
persisting in her attitude of non-surrender, but winning, as far as she
was able, the rest that, at present, could only be achieved by means of
a sort of inward apathy. It was an instinctive effort of
self-preservation. She was like a fierce fire, over which ashes have
been heaped to keep down the flames, and check its ardour. She had to
eat her heart out in dullness, to avoid its flaming out in madness. But
the spring came and carried her away on its torrent. She might as well
have tried to resist an avalanche. She thought that she had given up all
serious thought of music; the surrender was necessary, and she had
judged it folly to tempt herself by further dallying with it. It was too
strong for her. And the despair that it awoke seemed to break up her
whole existence, and render her unfit for her daily task. But now she
found that, once more, she had underrated the strength of her own
impulses. For some time she resisted, but one day, the sun shone out
strong and genial, the budding trees spread their branches to the warm
air, a blackbird warbled ecstatically from among the Priory shrubberies,
and Hadria passed into the garden of the Griffins.

The caretaker smiled, when she saw who stood on the doorstep.

"Why ma'am, I thought you was never coming again to play on the piano; I
_have_ missed it, that I have. It makes the old place seem that
cheerful--I can almost fancy it's my poor young mistress come back
again. She used to sit and play on that piano, by the hour together."

"I am glad you have enjoyed it," said Hadria gently. The blinds were
pulled up in the drawing-room, the piano was uncovered, the windows
thrown open to the terrace.

"You haven't had much time for playing since your mamma has been ill,"
the woman continued, dusting the keys and setting up the music-rest.

"To-day my mother has a visitor; Mrs. Joseph Fleming is spending the
afternoon with her," said Hadria.

"To be sure, ma'am, to be sure, a nice young lady, and so cheerful,"
said the good woman, bustling off to wind up the tall old clock with the
wise-looking face, that had been allowed to run down since Hadria's last
visit. "Seems more cheerful like," observed the caretaker, as the steady
tick-tack began to sound through the quiet room.

"And have you fed my birds regularly, Mrs. Williams?" asked Hadria,
taking off her hat and standing at the open window looking out to the
terrace.

"Yes indeed, ma'am, every day, just as you used to do when you came
yourself. And they has got so tame; they almost eats out of my hand."

"And my robin? I hope he has not deserted us."

"Oh, no, he comes right into the room sometimes and hops about, just as
he did that afternoon, the last time you was here! I think it's the same
bird, for he likes to perch on that table and pick up the crumbs."

"Poor little soul! If you will give me a scrap of bread, Mrs.
Williams----"

The caretaker left the room, and returned with a thick slice, which
Hadria crumbled and scattered on the window-sill, as she stepped out to
the terrace.

The calm old mansion with its delicate outlines, its dreamy exquisite
stateliness, spoke of rest and sweet serenity. The place had the
melancholy but also the repose of greatness. It was rich in all that
lies nearest to the heart of that mysterious, dual-faced divinity that
we call beauty, compounded of sorrow and delight.

Ah! if only its owner could come and take up his abode here. If only he
would get well! Hadria's thoughts wandered backwards to that wonderful
evening, when she had played to him and Algitha, and they had all
watched the sunset afterwards, from the terra