[Source: PubMed]

66. Front Public Health. 2022 Oct 25;10:977512. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.977512. 
eCollection 2022.

Religious affiliation as a driver of immunization coverage: Analyses of 
zero-dose vaccine prevalence in 66 low- and middle-income countries.

Santos TM(1), Cata-Preta BO(1), Wendt A(1)(2), Arroyave L(1), Hogan DR(3), 
Mengistu T(3), Barros AJD(1), Victora CG(1).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, International Center for Equity in 
Health, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Tecnologia em Saúde, Pontifícia Universidade 
Católica do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil.
(3)Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance, Geneva, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The literature on the association between religion and immunization 
coverage is scant, mostly consisting of single-country studies. Analyses in low 
and middle-income countries (LMICs) to assess whether the proportions of 
zero-dose children vary according to religion remains necessary to better 
understand non-socioeconomic immunization barriers and to inform interventions 
that target zero-dose children.
METHODS: We included 66 LMICs with standardized national surveys carried out 
since 2010, with information on religion and vaccination. The proportion of 
children who failed to receive any doses of a diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus (DPT) 
containing vaccine - a proxy for no access to routine vaccination or "zero-dose" 
status - was the outcome. Differences among religious groups were assessed using 
a test for heterogeneity. Additional analyses were performed controlling for the 
fixed effect of country, household wealth, maternal education, and urban-rural 
residence to assess associations between religion and immunization.
FINDINGS: In 27 countries there was significant heterogeneity in no-DPT 
prevalence according to religion. Pooled analyses adjusted for wealth, maternal 
education, and area of residence showed that Muslim children had 76% higher 
no-DPT prevalence than Christian children. Children from the majority religion 
in each country tended to have lower no-DPT prevalence than the rest of the 
population except in Muslim-majority countries.
INTERPRETATION: Analyses of gaps in coverage according to religion are relevant 
to renewing efforts to reach groups that are being left behind, with an 
important role in the reduction of zero-dose children.

Copyright © 2022 Santos, Cata-Preta, Wendt, Arroyave, Hogan, Mengistu, Barros 
and Victora.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2022.977512
PMCID: PMC9642099
PMID: 36388274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: TM and DH are employed by Gavi, the Vaccine 
Alliance, sponsor of this research. They had total freedom to express their 
views which do not necessarily reflect those of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. The 
remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any 
commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential 
conflict of interest.