[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Act of Settlement 1701

being or marrying Roman Catholics; however, potential Roman Catholic successors would be required to convert to Anglicanism prior to acceding to the throne. In reaction to the letter and media coverage, Harper stated that, this time, he was "supportive" of what he saw as "reasonable modernizations".

At the 2011 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting on 28 October 2011, the prime ministers of the other Commonwealth realms agreed to support Cameron's proposed changes to the Act. The bill put before the Parliament of the United Kingdom would act as a model for the legislation required to be passed in at least some of the other realms, and any changes would only first take effect if the Duke of Cambridge were to have a daughter before a son.

The British group Republic asserted that succession reform would not make the monarchy any less discriminatory. As it welcomed the gender equality reforms, the British newspaper The Guardian criticized the lack of a proposal to remove the ban on Catholics sitting on the throne, as did Alex Salmond, First Minister of Scotland, who pointed out that "It is deeply disappointing that the reform [of the Act of Settlement of 1701] has stopped short of removing the unjustifiable barrier on a Catholic becoming monarch." On the subject, Cameron asserted: "Let me be clear, the monarch must be in communion with the Church of England because he or she is the head of that Church."

The disqualification arising from marriage to a Roman Catholic was removed by the Succession to the Crown Act 2013.

See also
 Jacobitism
 List of British monarchs
 List of Canadian monarchs
 List of New Zealand monarchs
 List of Australian monarchs
 Royal Succession Bills and Acts
 Succession to the British throne
 Alternative successions of the English and British crown

References

Citations

Notes

Bibliography

External links

Text of the Act of Settlement as originally passed, The Statutes at Large: vol X: 1696/7–1703 (1764), pp. 357–60.
Official text of the "Act of Settlement 1700" as currently in force in the Australian Capital Territory
British Monarchy web page on the Act of Settlement

Image of original act from the Parliamentary Archives website 

Australian constitutional law
Constitution of Canada
Constitutional laws of England
Constitution of the United Kingdom
Acts of the Parliament of England
Acts of the Parliament of England still in force
1701 in law
1701 in England
Monarchy in Canada
Monarchy in Australia
Monarchy in New Zealand
Succession acts
Succession to the British crown
Succession to the Canadian Crown
Law about religion in the United Kingdom
History of Christianity in Canada
History of Catholicism in England
Anti-Catholicism in England
Sophia of Hanover