[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hubertus von Bonin

y Group North in its advance through the Baltic states towards Leningrad, the unit began combat operations shortly afterwards. On 30 June, von Bonin was transferred to take command of Jagdfliegerschule 4, the fighter pilot school in Fürth. Command of I. Gruppe passed on to Hauptmann Erich von Selle.

On 1 October 1941, he then took command of the III. Gruppe of Jagdgeschwader 52 (JG 52—52nd Fighter Wing) on the Eastern Front. At the time of his posting to JG 52, III. Gruppe was based at Poltava and supporting the 17th Army in its assault on Kharkov, leading up to the First Battle of Kharkov. Under his leadership, III. Gruppe of JG 52 became the most successful fighter unit of the Luftwaffe. Von Bonin claimed his first aerial victory with JG 52 on 29 April 1942. That day, he shot down a Yakovlev Yak-1 fighter. III. Gruppe had just relocated to Zürichtal, a small village at the Inhul in the former German settlement west of Feodosia in the Crimea. On 12 May, III. Gruppe was ordered to relocate to an airfield named Kharkov-Rogan,  east of Kharkov where they participated in the Second Battle of Kharkov. Over the next weeks, III. Gruppe was moved several times. On 19 May, the Gruppe moved to Barvinkove where they stayed until 12 June mostly fighting over the encircled Soviet forces in the Izium salient. They were then ordered to Belgorod and to Grakowo, located approximately halfway between Kharkov and Kupiansk, on 22 June. On 26 June, III. Gruppe then moved to Bely Kolodez where they stayed until 3 July. According to Prien, Stemmer, Rodeike and Bock, von Bonin claimed seven aerial victories between 9 May to 30 June which were not documented.

On 28 June, German forces had launched Case Blue, the strategic summer offensive in southern Russia. On 7 July, Army Group A began their advance towards the oil fields in the Caucasus. On 13 August, III. Gruppe had reached Mineralnye Vody in the North Caucasus region. In mid-August, von Bonin was ordered to detach a small Kommando (commando) under the command of Oberleutnant Hermann Graf. On 23 August, von Bonin claimed a Polikarpov I-16 fighter and a Douglas A-20 Havoc, also known as a Boston, taking his total to 19 aerial victories. On 27 August, III. Gruppe reached an airfield named Gonschtakowka located north-northeast of Mozdok on the Terek. There, von Bonin claimed two Lavochkin-Gorbunov-Gudkov LaGG-3 fighters and a Boston bomber shot down on 30 August. On the next two days, he shot down one LaGG-3 fighter on each day taking his total to 24. On 2 September, von Bonin was credited with a Polikarpov I-153 fighter and two Boston bombers.

On 19 September, III. Gruppe reached an airfield named Soldatskaya, west of Mozdok. The Gruppe would remain here until 1 January 1943 but would also use airfields at Mozdok and Digora. He was awarded the German Cross in Gold () on 27 October 1942. On 1 November, von Bonin became an "ace-in-a-day" claiming a La-5, a MiG-3, and two LaGG-3 fighters plus an Il-2 ground attack aircraft, taking his total to 46 aerial victories. On 13 December, von Bonin claimed two Yak-1 fighters, his last aerial victories of 1942, taking his total to 56. A week later, on 21 December, von Bonin received the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross (). Von Bonin claimed his next aerial victories in late April 1943. III. Gruppe had been ordered to Taman on the Kuban on 1 April. On 29 April, he shot down two LaGG-3 fighters. His last claim with JG 52 was filed on 29 May when he shot down a LaGG-3 fighter.

Wing commander and death

On 5 July 1943, Oberstleutnant Hannes Trautloft, the Geschwaderkommodore (wing commander) of JG 54, was transferred to the staff of the General der Jagdflieger (General of Fighters), an office held by Generalmajor Adolf Galland. In consequence, von Bonin was transferred and assumed command of JG 54 on 6 July 1943. At the time, the Geschwaderstab (headquarters unit) of JG 54 was based at Siversky and subordinated to Luftflotte 1 (Air Fleet 1), supporting Army Group North. Prior to this posting, von Bonin had just recently married. Further south, German forces had launched Operation Citadel on 5 July, the failed attempt to eliminate the Kursk salient that initiated the Battle of Kursk. In support of this offensive, JG 54 moved to Oryol on 9 July, fighting on the northern pincer of Generaloberst Walter Model's 9th Army.

In October, the Geschwaderstab moved to Vitebsk. On 15 December, von Bonin claimed two Il-2 ground attack aircraft shot down northeast of Gorodok (now Haradok, Belarus). Von Bonin had attacked a flight of six Il-2 ground attack aircraft and their fighter escort. In this encounter, he was shot down and killed in action in his Focke Wulf Fw 190 A-5 (Werknummer 2600) east of Gorodok. Command of JG 54 initially remained vacant until Oberstleutnant Anton Mader was appointed Geschwaderkommodore on 28 January 1944.

Summary of career

Aerial victory claims