[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

Party, and Karl Klüger, Saul Klüger, Josef Mann, Mizrachi, Benedikt Kaswan, Manfred Reiffer, and Leon Schmelzer. Ernő (Ernest) Marton, Mișu Weissman, and Landau were other prominent members of the PER. Lawyer Eugen Kertész headed the PER chapter in Cluj, later joined by the UER defector Miksa Klein.

Many party recruits continued to espouse a distinctly radical Zionism. In 1929, Ebner criticized Moses Mendelssohn and his assimilationist ideology upon Mendelssohn's centennial, arguing that: "the ideas of assimilation lead straight to de-Judaisation, alienation, indifference towards all things Jewish, and finally to dissolution." Such commentary was also found in Marton's own essays, which were addressed to the Hungarian Jews of Transylvania: "The Jews", Marton noted, "would be able to live among the peoples only as a people." At that stage, the party was joined by the Zionist writer-industrialist A. L. Zissu, who brought in his own Zionist cell, Renașterea Noastră. In 1930, the latter group had taken control of the Zionist Federation in Bucharest. Zissu, a "bourgeois conservative", also advocated "integral" Zionism, communitarianism and self-segregation within the "poly-ethnic state", whereas Filderman's stances were "coherently liberal".

Strongly inclined to a prophetic form of Religious Zionism, Zissu defined himself as "the political opponent" of the UER. As he explained in a 1931 interview, he still regarded the PER as politically and socially compatible with the "Romanian bourgeoisie", regardless of its ethnic background, seeing this symbiosis as a necessary curb on full segregation. Zissu also claimed that the PER had served the Romanian state in unifying Jews from Transylvania and Bessarabia, who were not Romanian-speaking, around the Bucharest nucleus, which endured as "so very close to Romanian language and culture." The latter goal was received with annoyance by Magyarized Jews who identified with the Hungarian minority. On their behalf, writer Géza Földes expressed the belief that Transylvanian Jews would remain Hungarian, just as Old-Kingdom Jews would continue to be Romanian, forcing the Zionists "to recruit members of the Jewish party from among Hebrew-speaking Jews."

Early growth and stagnation
The PER took part in the June 1931 election. Its list for Bucharest-centered Ilfov County, announced on May 9, was headlined by Adolphe Stern and Tivadar Fischer. The other positions were held, in descending order of eligibility, by Radu Bauberger, Mihail Stern, Weissman, Iosef M. Gotlieb, Ernest Frenkel, Blumenfeld, Mizrachi, Mayer Segall, Robert Weinberg-Verea, Leiba Rosenberg, Osias Avram, Benedict Littman, Alfons Feldman, Lăzărescu, Moriț Abramovici, and Benvenisti. The UER, accused by the PER of electoral fraud, preferred to join Argetoianu's "National Union" alliance. Zissu made one of his few returns to Romania, intervening to sabotage the alliance, and urging Jews to focus on voting for the PER. In the end, the PER obtained some 60,000 votes, 2.19 or 2.38% of the total—depending on the number of deputies considered as part of the PER. A review of the results, carried in Dimineața of June 8, concluded that 64,000 Jews had voted for the PER, of a total 180,000 Jews who voted, indicating that "the immense majority of Jewish voters opposes such a party and [the notion of having] separate Jewish lists."

The Stern–Fischer list only received 24 votes, all of them in the rural parts of Ilfov; by comparison, the group's best performance, in the northern Bessarabian County of Soroca, had gathered 3,680 votes. Overall, however, the PER had received a significant share of the votes in localities that had virtually no Jewish inhabitants, including Brâncoveni, Chirnogi, Focșani, Movilița, and Sascut—indicating that "matters of local convenience" had dictated the vote. Landau was arrested while a candidate in Hotin County, allegedly because he had exposed Argetoianu's fraud and had refused to settle the matter with bribes. According to Landau, there were normally 12,000 Jewish voters in that corner of Bessarabia, and all of them had pledged for the PER. In the neighboring Bălți County, the PER list was not approved in time for the election, leading Tivadar Fischer to ask for an invalidation. The PER formally won four seats in the Assembly of Deputies, but later received another affiliation, raising it two five seats. Ebner took the final position in Cernăuți and Diamant did similarly Storojineț, with József Fischer elected in Maramureș County, and Tivadar at Soroca. Rieffer won the race in Câmpulung County after government agreed to a recount. In accordance with a previous agreement that no affiliate region would go unrepresented, Tivadar Fischer was replaced by Landau, and Ebner ceded his seat to Sami Singer.