[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Vijaypat Singhania

Vijaypat Singhania (born 1938) is a businessman and aviator from India. A member of the prominent Singhania family, he is well-known as a textile magnate, having been chairman and managing director of the Raymond Group from 1980–2000. In flight, he holds the world record for highest altitude gained in a hot air balloon as of 2023, and also set a microlight endurance record in 1988 by flying from London to Delhi in 23 days. He is the author of two book-length memoirs, the story of his microlight flight and his autobiography.

The Government of India has given him two awards, the Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award for his aviation exploits in 2001, and the Padma Bhushan for his achievements overall in 2006. In addition, the Indian Air Force made him an Honorary Air Commodore in 1994. Mumbai named him the 2006 Sheriff of Mumbai.

In 2015, he gave his entire 37% stake in Raymond Group to his younger son and then-chairman of Raymond Gautam Singhania. This was the start of a widely-publicized and long-running feud in Singhania's family over various matters stemming from the transfer.

Business 

Singhania has said that he only went into business at the behest of his father, Lala Kailashpat (L.K.) Singhania. He did not enjoy the subjects of commerce and economics as a student, and only came to appreciate them later in life when he was teaching postgraduate management classes at the JBIMS. He has mused that he might have been better off if he had become a scientist or engineer, since maths and science were his best subjects in school and he tended to get poor marks in everything else.

Singhania's father L.K. Singhania was the one who initially ran Raymond after the Singhania family purchased it from E.D. Sassoon & Co. in 1944, when it was merely a textile mill. Singhania's cousin Gopal Krishna (G.K.) Singhania took it over from L.K. Singhania after his death in 1969. Singhania became chairman in January 1980, after G.K. Singhania's death.

According to Singhania, Hari Shankar Singhania, another of his cousins, was the one who initially wanted to take over Raymond after G.K. Singhania died. However, Singhania claims that the senior executives threatened to quit at this prospect, saying they would only work for L.K. Singhania's eldest son. That happened to be Singhania, who at the time was running J.K. Chemicals, one of the J.K. Organisation companies. He was initially disinterested in the Raymond chairman position as he was happy at J.K. Chemicals, but said he agreed to take it once he heard of the senior executives' views.

During his time at the helm of Raymond, he led the company into having one of the best-known clothing brands in India, it being one of the most successful of any of the Singhania family companies for much of his tenure. He also expanded it into an industrial conglomerate, taking it from solely a woolen textile manufacturer to also producing synthetic fabrics, denim, steel, files, and cement. This ran the company into trouble late in his chairmainship, however, as a recession affecting steel and cement cut deeply into the company's profits in 1996–97. Raymond put up several of its divisions for sale during this time. In September 2000, Singhania turned the Raymond chairmanship over to his son Gautam Singhania, who completed the sale of the company's synthetics, steel, and cement divisions early in his tenure, opting to retain the rest. Singhania stayed on as Chairman-Emeritus, in a non-executive capacity.

In March 2007 he was nominated to be Chairman of the Governing Council at the IIMA until 2012 (succeeding N.R. Narayana Murthy). He had previously been on the board of the IIMA from 1991 to 2002.

Aviation 

Singhania is an enthusiastic aviator; by 2003 he had accumulated over 5000 hours of flying experience. He has cited Howard Hughes and J.R.D. Tata as his idols in aviation.

In 1988, he set a speed-over-time endurance record for microlight aircraft by flying solo from London Biggin Hill Airport in London to Safdarjung Airport in New Delhi over 23 days. The prior record holder Brian Milton and then-Minister-of-State Sheila Dikshit met him on the tarmac in Delhi to give their congratulations. Singhania said the most difficult part of the journey for him was flying between Crete and Alexandria across the Mediterranean Sea; he has a fear of deep water, and flew that leg wearing a life jacket and with a can of shark repellent in his lap. When he got bored in the air, he would pass the time by carrying on pretend conversations with a photo of his two-year-old granddaughter Ananya.