[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 72]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

the friend of all the poor in the
neighbourhood; he gives us food and medicines when we are ill, and he
employs us when we can find no work; but what we are even more obliged
to him for than the giving us food and raiment, and life itself, he
instructs us in our duty, makes us ashamed of our faults, and teaches us
how we may be happy, not only here, but in another world. I was once an
idle, abandoned man myself, given up to swearing and drinking,
neglecting my family, and taking no thought for my poor wife and
children; but since Mr Barlow has taught me better things, and made me
acquainted with this blessed book, my life and manners, I hope, are much
amended, and I do my duty better to my poor family.

"That indeed you do, Robin," answered the woman; "there is not now a
better and kinder husband in the world; you have not wasted an idle
penny or a moment's time these two years; and, without that unfortunate
fever, which prevented you from working last harvest, we should have the
greatest reason to be contented."

"Have we not the greatest reason now," answered the man, "to be not only
contented, but thankful for all the blessings we enjoy? It is true that
I, and several of the children, were ill this year for many weeks; but
did we not all escape, through the blessing of God, and the care of good
Mr Barlow and this worthy Master Sandford, who brought us victuals so
many days, with his own hands, when we otherwise should perhaps have
starved? Have I not had very good employment ever since; and do I not
now earn six shillings a-week, which is a very comfortable thing, when
many poor wretches as good as I are starving, because they cannot find
employment?"

"Six shillings a-week! six shillings a-week!" answered Tommy in
amazement; "and is that all you and your wife and children have to live
on for a whole week!"

_The Man._--Not all, master; my wife sometimes earns a shilling or
eighteenpence a-week by spinning, and our eldest daughter begins to do
something that way, but not much.

_Tommy._--That makes seven shillings and sixpence a-week. Why, I have
known my mother give more than that to go to a place where outlandish
people sing. I have seen her and other ladies give a man a guinea for
dressing their hair; and I know a little miss, whose father gives
half-a-guinea a time to a little Frenchman, who teaches her to jump and
caper about the room.

"Master," replied the man, smiling, "these are great gentlefolks that
you are talking about; they are very rich, and have a right to do what
they please with their own; it is the duty of us poor folks to labour
hard, take what we can get, and thank the great and wise God that our
condition is no worse."

_Tommy._--What! and is it possible that you can thank God for living in
such a house as this, and earning seven shillings and sixpence a-week?

_The Man._--To be sure I can, master. Is it not an act of His goodness
that we have clothes and a warm house to shelter us, and wholesome food
to eat? It was but yesterday that two poor men came by, who had been
cast away in a storm, and lost their ship and all they had. One of the
poor men had scarcely any clothes to cover him, and was shaking all over
with a violent ague; and the other had his toes almost mortified by
walking bare-footed in the snow. Am I not a great deal better off than
these poor men, and perhaps than a thousand others, who are at this time
tossed about upon the waves, or cast away, or wandering about the world,
without a shed to cover them from the weather; or imprisoned for debt?
Might I not have gone on in committing bad actions, like many other
unhappy men, till I had been guilty of some notorious crime, which might
have brought me to a shameful end? And ought not I to be grateful for
all these blessings which I possess without deserving them?

Tommy, who had hitherto enjoyed all the good things of this life,
without reflecting from whom he had received them, was very much struck
with the piety of this honest and contented man; but as he was going to
answer, the good woman, who had laid a clean, though coarse, cloth upon
the table, and taken up her savoury supper in an earthen plate, invited
them to sit down; an invitation which both the boys obeyed with the
greatest pleasure, as they had eaten nothing since the morning. In the
meantime the honest man of the house had taken his hat and walked to Mr
Barlow's, to inform him that his two pupils were safe in the
neighbourhood.

Mr Barlow had long suffered the greatest uneasiness at their absence,
and not contented with sending after them on every side, was at that
very time busy in the pursuit, so that the man met him about half-way
from his own house. As soon as Mr Barlow heard the good news, he
determined to return with the man, and reached his house just as Tommy
Merton had finished one of the heartiest meals he had ever made.

The little boys rose up to meet Mr Barlo