[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Geneva Call

of persuading armed groups to make unilateral declarations to abide by IHL norms".
In 2013, The Global Journal ranked Geneva Call 68th best NGO in the world and in 2017, NGO Advisor has rated Geneva Call as the 85th best NGO in the world in its 2017 edition of the ranking.

Criticism and Controversy

At the Seventh Meeting of States Parties to the Ottawa Treaty, Turkey accused Geneva Call of signing a Deed of Commitment with the Kurdistan Workers' Party without knowledge or consent from the Turkish government, describing the act as "inappropriate and unacceptable." Geneva Call claims that it informed Turkey of the engagement. Turkey refuses to allow Geneva Call into its borders to conduct verification missions with the Kurdistan Workers' Party.

The 2010 United States Supreme Court case Holder v. Humanitarian Law Project'' ruled that organizations providing international law training to organizations recognized as terrorist groups by the Department of State are committing a crime. Because of Geneva Call's work with the Kurdistan Workers' Party, some of the organization's activities could be considered illegal under American law. Geneva Call President at the time Élisabeth Decrey Warner responded that "civilians caught in the middle of conflicts and hoping for peace will suffer from this decision. How can you start peace talks or negotiations if you don't have the right to speak to both parties?"

Nevertheless, Geneva Call points out that its dialogue with ANSAs does not intend to legitimize them. In February 2022, Alain Délétroz, Geneva Call’s Director General, claimed that the organization adopts  a "depoliticized talk" approach with ANSAs.

As a humanitarian principled organization, Geneva Call undertakes humanitarian dialogue with all armed non-state actors to the conflict regardless of their ideologies, to increase the compliance with IHL and IHRL to better protect civilians from the negative effect of the armed conflicts. This includes, for instance, the Alliance of Patriots for a Free and Sovereign Congo, present in North Kivu, the Ukrainian armed non-State actor Azov Special Operations Detachment, and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, based in the Philippines.

References

Organisations based in Switzerland
Anti-war movement
Mine action organizations
Organisations based in Geneva