[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Blerim Džemaili

the second of which came from a direct free-kick in a 3–0 friendly victory over Liechtenstein at Stockhorn Arena in Thun.

Džemaili was part of the squad in Euro 2016 and 2018 World Cup qualification. He was included in the Switzerland national football team 23 man squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup.

Style of play
During his time in Serie A, Džemaili differed from most other players in the attacking midfield position due to his box-to-box approach to the role and hard-running style. Indeed, although he is effective as a ball-winner in front of the back-line who breaks down opposing plays, he is also capable of contributing to his team's offensive plays with goals and assists in a more advanced role, courtesy of his vision and eye for goal from midfield. He is also good at timing his runs, finding space, and getting into the box unmarked by making late attacking runs into the area from behind, and is a powerful and accurate striker of the ball from both inside and outside the area, which allows him to play as a mezzala; he is also an effective penalty taker. Otherwise, Džemaili is tidy in possession and also has great passing range, usually completing around 90% of passes per game; moreover, he is known for his ability to switch the play with long balls. A versatile, consistent, tenacious, and tactically intelligent right-footed player, he is capable of playing in several midfield roles, and can adapt to various systems; aside from his usual offensive and holding midfield roles, he has also been used as a central midfielder in either a two or three-man midfield, as a deep-lying playmaker, or even as a winger. In addition to his playing ability, he is also highly regarded for his leadership.

Personal life
In 2015, Džemaili married Shkoder-born Albanian model Erjona Sulejmani who, in the same year, gave birth to their eldest son, Luan. By January 2018, they were divorced.

Career statistics

Club

International

Scores and results list Switzerland's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Džemaili goal.

Honours
Zürich
Swiss Super League: 2005–06, 2006–07, 2021–22
Swiss Cup: 2004–05

Napoli
Coppa Italia: 2011–12, 2013–14

Galatasaray
Süper Lig: 2014–15
Turkish Cup: 2014–15

References
Notes

Citations

External links

FC Zürich stats 

1986 births
Living people
Yugoslav emigrants to Switzerland
Swiss people of Albanian descent
Swiss people of Macedonian descent
Sportspeople from Tetovo
Swiss men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Switzerland men's youth international footballers
Switzerland men's under-21 international footballers
Switzerland men's international footballers
2006 FIFA World Cup players
2014 FIFA World Cup players
UEFA Euro 2016 players
2018 FIFA World Cup players
SC Young Fellows Juventus players
FC Zürich players
Bolton Wanderers F.C. players
Torino FC players
Parma Calcio 1913 players
SSC Napoli players
Galatasaray S.K. footballers
Genoa CFC players
Bologna FC 1909 players
CF Montréal players
Shenzhen F.C. players
Swiss Super League players
Serie A players
Süper Lig players
Major League Soccer players
Designated Players (MLS)
China League One players
Expatriate men's footballers in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Turkey
Expatriate men's soccer players in Canada
Expatriate men's footballers in China
Swiss expatriate men's footballers
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in Italy
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in Canada
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in England
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in Turkey