[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Seafort Saga

lacements orders them to fire on the galactic instead.

Suffering drastic damage, the galactic is ultimately destroyed. As a result of the destruction, Derek Carr and Arlene Seafort are killed. Watching both his wife and one of his oldest and dearest friends die in front of him scars Seafort's soul.

Finding himself unable to ever return to Earth again because of the Drastic damage his spine has suffered, Seafort languishes until he agrees to take command of the olympiad, galactic's sister ship. He reluctantly agrees because he realizes that even if he retires from politics, his mere existence in home system will forever place him at the forefront of every decision that is made, granting him no peace.

Mikhail tamarov adopts Seafort as a surrogate father, deciding to come along on the journey. Additionally his wife Arlene had frozen eggs before she died, and Seafort intends to keep the promise he made to her he will have another child, using a host mother.

With a sense of purpose as a father and a captain, Seafort says goodbye to his home planet in the knowledge that he will never return.

Children of Hope
The seventh book is set several years after the events of Patriarch's Hope and was the last in the series to be published before the death of author David Feintuch.

Galahad's Hope (unpublished)
Galahad's Hope is the working title of the eighth and final book in the Seafort Saga of science fiction novels, and the sequel to Children of Hope. The manuscript was reported to be completed before the death of author David Feintuch; however, Orbit UK has no current plans to publish this book. According to an Orbit online marketing executive, they haven't been approached by anyone connected to David Feintuch with a view to publishing the manuscript.

References

Further reading
Zaleski, Jeff, and Peter Cannon.. "CHILDREN OF HOPE (Book Review)." Publishers Weekly 248.11 (12 Mar. 2001): 67.
Green, Roland. "Adult Books: FICTION." Booklist 97.14 (15 Mar. 2001): 1360.

 
Military science fiction novels
Space navies
Book series introduced in 1994