[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Richard Misrach

e environment, but "it is much more about our relationship to the bigger, sublime picture of things."

Misrach completed the series in 2005 and went on to publish a large-format book called On the Beach in 2007, voted by Photo District News readers as one of the most influential books of the decade.

Returning to the same beach while on vacation in late 2011 with a new digital camera, he began working at the same location but with a different intent and mood: the artist says he was becoming "more comfortable with metaphysical questions," and the subjects of his 2011 images appear at play and in harmony with nature. The title of the series, On the Beach 2.0, alludes to the fact that the photographs are grounded in their technological moment in time – as do the individual titles, which refer to the date and exact minute of each shot.

Conversely, reviewer Allegra Kirkland points out that parts of this body of work are the closest Misrach has come to traditional portraiture since Telegraph 3 AM. The use of a digital camera and a telephoto lens introduced a new degree of speed and proximity to the artist's shooting methods; although faces are often obscured by a towel or magazine, many of the images in On The Beach 2.0 might still be considered gestural portraits.

Kirkland writes: "The [On The Beach 2.0] series is about waiting and what happens when you do—the strange, small, secret moments that compose life... Ten years after the debut of the original project, Misrach seems to be affirming that man and nature do not always have to exist in opposition."

Reverse photographs and iPhone images
Recently, as an homage to the end of the analog era, Misrach has created a number of reverse images, essentially presenting large prints in their negative form: "The colors are reversed when output as pigment prints, making the photographs chromatic negatives... With his new work, Misrach appears determined to renew that sense of unfamiliarity—to revive the idea that color is unreliable, artificial." (Art in America)

While making enormous large-scale prints, Misrach has also been experimenting with the relatively miniature, contemporary medium of cell phone photography; an exhibit of this work was shown in 2011, consisting entirely of small-scale color prints taken with an iPhone camera. Misrach "continues his examination of man's interaction with land and seascapes in these intimate and experimental images, [wherein] the artist revisits Bombay Beach, California, a flood zone where he [photographed] found objects and detritus – evidence of man's presence in the landscape. These compositions were also manipulated: positive becomes negative and objects are transformed in a reversed color spectrum."

In 2022, Notations, a large monograph of these experimental color reverse photographs was published by Radius Books.

Border Cantos
Misrach's Border Cantos series comprises photographs of the border between the U.S. and Mexico taken since 2004, and most extensively since 2009. In 2012 he began a collaboration with composer Guillermo Galindo, who manufactures playable instruments from objects found along the border. Misrach and Galindo have recovered artifacts from the border zone including water bottles, clothing, back-packs, Border Patrol "drag" tires, spent shotgun shells, ladders, and sections of the border wall itself, all of which have been transformed by Galindo into instrumental sculptures. The pair have produced the book Border Cantos (Aperture, 2016) and a museum exhibition that traveled to the San Jose Museum of Art, the Amon Carter Museum of Art, Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art, and Pace/PaceMacGill Gallery in New York (2016-2017). Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art has since acquired a number of pieces for their permanent collection and they are now traveling these pieces in an exhibit they call Border Cantos | Sonic Border. This exhibit has been traveling since 2018 and has gone to over a dozen museums such as the Amarillo Museum of art, the Missoula Art Museum, the Westmoreland Museum of American Art and the Figge Art Museum.

UCSF Nancy Friend Pritzker Psychiatry Building 
In 2019, Misrach was commissioned to produce all the art for a new UCSF psychiatry building in San Francisco. Mining his own archive of photographs, he produced over 120 works for the building which opened in fall 2022.

Alonzo King LINES Ballet 
“Let Not Your Heart Be Troubled,” a collaboration between Alonzo King LINES Ballet, Grammy-winning singer Lisa Fisher and Misrach, had its world premiere in April 2023 in San Francisco before starting a traveling tour.

Awards
Misrach's book Desert Cantos received the 1988 Infinity Award from the International Center for Photography, and his Bravo 20: The Bombing of the American West, co-authored with Myriam Weisang Misrach, was awarded the 1991 PEN Center West Award for a nonfiction book. His Katrina monograph Destroy This Memory won Best Photobook of the Year 2011 at PhotoEspaña.