[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Pacific Northwest Wrestling

to Portland Wrestling's referee and future promoter Sandy Barr. The Portland Sports Arena, as well as a former supermarket building next door which was used by Barr for the flea market he ran, were eventually acquired by a local church.

Former personnel

Champions (when the company closed in 1992)

Trying to rebuild
Sandy Barr continued promoting wrestling in the Pacific Northwest under the company names of Championship Wrestling USA and IGA Wrestling.  Barr created new titles for the promotion and abandoned the previous titles.  As Barr faced challenges when dealing with the Oregon state athletic commission similar to what Owen faced, he decided to move the promotion across the Columbia River to Vancouver, Washington.  Barr purchased late night airtime on local television station KOIN for a couple of years, but was never given a stable timeslot.  Barr would continue to run weekly shows until shortly before his death on June 2, 2007.

In 1996, Matt Borne became booker of CWUSA and crowds began to rise. Sandy Barr abruptly closed Championship Wrestling USA in 1997.  The remaining weeks of television that had been purchased on KOIN were filled with programs from 1993.  Matt Borne joined up with Ivan Kafoury, who owned a local radio station, and created the new Portland Wrestling.  They ran shows at the Aladdin Theater in Portland and later a flea market near Portland Meadows.  Their biggest success came in November 1997 when former University of Oregon football player Josh Wilcox made his pro debut in front of a crowd of over 700 fans.

The physical belt that was used as the NWA Pacific Northwest title was used at various times by its owner Len Denton before being sold on eBay in 2006. The last title claimant was local wrestling historian and part-time pro wrestler Matt Farmer, who defended the title at local lucha libre shows.

The "New" Portland Wrestling
In late 2000, wrestling returned to Portland with the opening of Portland Wrestling.  This new promotion claimed that its heavyweight and tag team title lineage were the same as the previous titles operated by Don Owen Sports.  However, this "Portland Wrestling" was not an NWA member promotion, nor was it directly linked in any way to the original Portland Wrestling.

The new Portland Wrestling initially aired on Portland's WB TV network affiliate, KWBP-TV (now KRCW-TV).  Frank Culbertson, Jr. (born ca. 1959), an advertising representative for the station, served first as ringside announcer and later as executive producer. KWBP changed hands in December 2002, and the new owners dropped virtually all local programming from its lineup, due to a decline in fan base. This development occurred at the same time Portland Wrestling was having major difficulties with the Oregon state government, in particular the athletic commission and the Attorney General's office.

On May 10, 2007, Culbertson, who was still running the operations of the promotion, was arraigned on charges of aggravated theft for allegedly embezzling US$10,000 from Portland-based Broadway Cab Company, where he had been working in the accounting department as a controller.  This event came as a surprise to Don Coss who, in light of Culbertson's criminal charges, has expressed uncertainty on the future of Portland Wrestling.

Champions when the company closed

Early championships
 World Heavyweight Championship (Northwest Version)
 World Light Heavyweight Championship (Northwest Version)
 Pacific Coast Heavyweight Championship
 Pacific Coast Junior Heavyweight Championship
 Pacific Coast Light Heavyweight Championship
 Pacific Coast Middleweight Championship
 Intermountain Junior Heavyweight Championship

NWA Regional Championships (Don Owen Sports era)
 NWA Pacific Northwest Heavyweight Championship
 NWA Pacific Northwest Tag Team Championship
 NWA Pacific Northwest Television Championship

Championship Wrestling USA Championships
 Championship Wrestling International Alliance World Heavyweight Championship
 Championship Wrestling International Alliance International Heavyweight Championship
 Championship Wrestling International Alliance International Tag Team Championship
 Championship Wrestling USA Television Championship
 Championship Wrestling USA Northwest Tag Team Championship

See also
 List of National Wrestling Alliance territories

References

External links
 Pacific Northwest Title Histories
 Kayfabe Memories of the PNW
 NWA Official Website
 Portland Wrestling Online

 
1925 establishments in Oregon
Independent professional wrestling promotions based on the West Coast of the United States
American public access television shows
Companies based in Portland, Oregon
Entertainment companies established in 1925
National Wrestling Alliance members
Sports in Washington (state)