[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Radha Krishna Temple

charya walked the whole route, dancing and chanting in front of a chariot carrying the deities of Jagannath, Balarama and Subhadra. Prabhupada's strength amazed his devotees, since he had been diagnosed with dysentery the previous week, while in Calcutta, and was considered to be too sick to travel.

Gurudas and Yamuna were based in Vrindaban in early 1974, where Gurudas was overseeing the construction of ISKCON's centre there. While Janaki left both Mukunda and the Hare Krishna movement, Mukunda ran the UK centres until relocating to Los Angeles in 1976, four years after which he founded the organisation's public relations department. Like Malati, Mukunda served on ISKCON's Governing Body Commission; in Malati's case, her 1998 appointment provided a breakthrough for gender equality within the movement.

See also
Hare Krishna in popular culture

Notes

References

Sources

 Keith Badman, The Beatles Diary Volume 2: After the Break-Up 1970–2001, Omnibus Press (London, 2001; ).
 The Beatles, The Beatles Anthology, Chronicle Books (San Francisco, CA, 2000; ).
 Pattie Boyd with Penny Junor, Wonderful Today: The Autobiography, Headline Review (London, 2007; ).
 Edwin F. Bryant & Maria Ekstrand (eds), The Hare Krishna Movement: The Postcharismatic Fate of a Religious Transplant, Columbia University Press (New York, NY, 2004; ).
 Harry Castleman & Walter J. Podrazik, All Together Now: The First Complete Beatles Discography 1961–1975, Ballantine Books (New York, NY, 1976; ).
 Chant and Be Happy: The Power of Mantra Meditation, Bhaktivedanta Book Trust (Los Angeles, CA, 1997; ).
 Alan Clayson, George Harrison, Sanctuary (London, 2003; ).
 Peter Doggett, You Never Give Me Your Money: The Beatles After the Breakup, It Books (New York, NY, 2011; ).
 Graham Dwyer & Richard J. Cole (eds), The Hare Krishna Movement: Forty Years of Chant and Change, I.B. Tauris (London, 2007; ).
 The Editors of Rolling Stone, Harrison, Rolling Stone Press/Simon & Schuster (New York, NY, 2002; ).
 Philip Goldberg, American Veda: From Emerson and the Beatles to Yoga and Meditation – How Indian Spirituality Changed the West, Harmony Books (New York, NY, 2010; ).
 Mukunda Goswami, Miracle on Second Avenue, Torchlight (Badger, CA, 2011; ).
 Satsvarupa dasa Goswami, Prabhupada: He Built a House in Which the Whole World Can Live, Bhaktivedanta Book Trust (Los Angeles, CA, 1983; ).
 Joshua M. Greene, Here Comes the Sun: The Spiritual and Musical Journey of George Harrison, John Wiley & Sons (Hoboken, NJ, 2006; ).
 Hare Krishna Tribute to George Harrison DVD (ITV Productions, 2002).
 Peter Lavezzoli, The Dawn of Indian Music in the West, Continuum (New York, NY, 2006; ).
 Simon Leng, While My Guitar Gently Weeps: The Music of George Harrison, Hal Leonard (Milwaukee, WI, 2006; ).
 Nori J. Muster, Betrayal of the Spirit: My Life Behind the Headlines of the Hare Krishna Movement, University of Illinois Press (Champaign, IL, 2001; ).
 Chris O'Dell with Katherine Ketcham, Miss O'Dell: My Hard Days and Long Nights with The Beatles, The Stones, Bob Dylan, Eric Clapton, and the Women They Loved, Touchstone (New York, NY, 2009; ).
 Bruce Spizer, The Beatles Solo on Apple Records, 498 Productions (New Orleans, LA, 2005; ).
 Gary Tillery, Working Class Mystic: A Spiritual Biography of George Harrison, Quest Books (Wheaton, IL, 2011; ).

External links

Radha Krsna Temple London (from Cosmic Empire)
Bhaktivedanta Manor history – George Harrison

International Society for Krishna Consciousness temples
Radha Krishna temples
Hindu temples in London
Apple Records artists
The Beatles and India
Religion in the London Borough of Camden