[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# August 1976

the star of Punky Brewster; in Glendora, California
Melissa George, Australian-born American film and TV actress; in Perth, Western Australia
Died: 
Gregor Piatigorsky, 73, Russian-born American cellist
Maria Klenova, 77, Soviet Russian marine geologist and Arctic explorer

August 7, 1976 (Saturday)

Viking 2 entered into orbit around Mars.
The Republic of the North Solomons, whose residents had declared their independence from the Australian-administered Territory of Papua and New Guinea on September 1, 1975, abandoned its secession.  The unrecognized republic, consisting of Bougainville Island and Buka Island, joined the now independent nation of Papua New Guinea as the "North Solomons Province", and the republic's president, Alexis Sarei, became the province's premier.
The decomposing body of former Chicago mobster John Roselli was found by two fishermen in Florida's Biscayne Bay, 10 days after he had disappeared.  Roselli had last been seen on July 28, when he departed from his sister's home in Plantation, Florida, to play golf.  His car had been found a few days later at the Miami International Airport.  According to the deputy chief medical examiner for Dade County, Roselli's body had been packed into an oil barrel that had been chopped with holes and weighed down with chains to sink to the bottom of the sea, but "Gases formed by the decomposition and trapped inside body tissue and the barrel had brought it to the surface."  Referring to Roselli's killers, Dr. Ronald Wright told reporters "These guys went to an incredible amount of trouble trying to make sure the body was never found."
The charred body of a person identified by his family as David Graiver, an Argentine banker accused of embezzlement, money laundering, and assistance to the Montoneros leftist guerrilla group, was found in the wreckage of a Dassault Falcon 888AR business jet on a hillside near Acapulco in Mexico.  Mexican investigators never took fingerprints of the remains found in the crash, consisting of "three severed hands", and Graiver was only confirmed by his relatives from "a piece of torso and a fragment of shirt", and the remains were later cremated, leading investigators to doubt that he had actually died. 
Apsarasas Kangri, at  the 96th highest mountain in the world, was climbed for the first time.  Yoshio Inagaki, Katsuhisa Yabuta and Takamasa Miyomoto of the Osaka University Mountaineering Club of Japan made the first ascent, reaching the peak over the west ridge.
Born: Karen Olivo, American stage actress; in the South Bronx, New York City

August 8, 1976 (Sunday)
An intoxicated Soviet border guard shot and killed six members of a group of Estonian gas company employees, and wounded 14 others, after getting into an argument with members who were having a picnic at the scenic Cape Letitpea park on the Gulf of Finland.  The shooting took place near the village of Kunda in the Estonian SSR, at the time a part of the Soviet Union.  Information about the crime was not reported in the Soviet-controlled press, but a monument would be placed at the site on the 15th anniversary of the killing in the final year of the Soviet Union's existence.
Defying more than 100 years of professional baseball tradition, the Chicago White Sox became the first team to wear short pants for summer games, defeating the visiting Kansas City Royals, 5 to 2, while dressed in Bermuda shorts.  The unpopular innovation was the idea of White Sox owner Bill Veeck.  The Sox played in shorts again on August 21 and August 22 before retiring the uniforms on their way to one of their worst seasons ever, finishing with 64 wins and 98 losses. 
Seven children ranging from 3 to 8 years old were killed, along with two adults, when a train struck the church bus they were on in the town of Stratton, Nebraska.  Eight other children on the bus were hospitalized.  All of the victims were local residents being driven by their pastor and his wife to Sunday school at the Stratton Church of Christ.