[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# USS Winona

USS Winona was a  built for service with the Union Navy during the American Civil War. Winona was heavily armed, with large guns for duels at sea, and 24-pounder howitzers for shore bombardment. Winona saw significant action in the Gulf of Mexico and in the waterways of the Mississippi River and was fortunate to return home safely after the war for decommissioning.

Construction and launch
Winona was the first ship to be so named by the U.S. Navy.  She was a propeller-driven gunboat constructed in 1861 at the Brooklyn, New York shipyard of C. & R. Poillon.  She was launched into the East River on 14 September 1861. The US Government allowed for 75 days of construction, but the shipyard finished its work 46 days after the contract was signed.  Winona was delivered to the Navy at the New York Navy Yard on 26 November 1861 and commissioned on 11 December 1861, Lt. Comdr. Edward T. Nichols in command.

Her sea trial under Commander Nichols was satisfactory in terms of the ship, but less so as to the navigation of the ship.  On her return from sea, she rammed and sank a launch leaving the Navy yard.  She was loaded with bomb shells worth $30,000.  Winona also hit a coal barge without apparent damage to either vessel.

Winona's hull was wooden, built from white and live oak, yellow pine, and locust.  She was rigged as a two-masted schooner and could sail, but her primary propulsion was provided by a single propeller  in diameter.  This was powered by two coal-fired steam engines, each with a  bore and an  stroke.  Steam was provided by two boilers which consumed 9 tons of fuel per day.  Winona's machinery was built by the Allaire Iron Works.

Winona's original cost, exclusive of armament, was $101,000.

Civil War service

Assigned to the Gulf coast
Ordered to the Gulf Blockading Squadron and allocated to the West Gulf Blockading Squadron when Union naval responsibility in the area was divided early the next year, she served at the mouth of and in the Mississippi River for the next seven months.

On 24 April 1862, she attempted to pass Forts Jackson and St. Philip but snagged herself on obstructions while the rest of her unit fought its way past the Confederate forts on the river banks and the South's naval forces. Eventually freeing herself, Winona remained below the forts with Comdr. David D. Porter's mortar flotilla while Flag Officer David Farragut moved on upriver to capture New Orleans, Louisiana.

Four days later, her commanding officer took part in accepting the Confederate capitulation of Fort St. Philip. In May, she moved upstream with the mortar boats to join the investment of the Southern stronghold at Vicksburg, Mississippi.

The siege of Vicksburg
That siege began in earnest late on the afternoon of 26 June when Farragut's mortar boats began their bombardment. At dawn on the 28th, Winona joined the other ships of Farragut's fleet in steaming past the Vicksburg batteries under a hail of fire to unite with the fleet under Flag Officer Davis which had been fighting its way down the river from its base at Cairo, Illinois.

Blocking CSS Arkansas
Once above Vicksburg, Winona and her colleagues settled into a more or less routine schedule supporting the first Vicksburg campaign and attempting to blockade the Confederate ironclad, Arkansas, in the Yazoo River. On 15 July, however, the Southern warship bested a three-gunboat expedition sent up the Yazoo River after her, disabling  in the river and chasing  and  back down the river.

Arkansas continued out of the Yazoo and into the Mississippi River to begin a bold dash through the 33-ship Union fleet of which Winona remained a unit. Firing as she went, the Confederate warship hurtled through the startled Northern squadron, briefly engaging Winona as she raced past her. Winona responded briefly, but the Confederate ship passed through the gauntlet safely and moored under the protection of the Vicksburg batteries. Soon thereafter, Winona, undertow of , re-passed Vicksburg with the rest of Farragut's force and went back to New Orleans.

Blockading Mobile, Alabama
By late August, the gunboat had joined the blockade off Mobile, Alabama. On 4 September, she was one of three ships on station off that important Confederate port. During the day, she and the gunboat  scampered back and forth investigating ships sighted.

At about 1705 that afternoon, the lookout on board Oneida spied the third strange vessel of the day. Winona received orders to investigate and steamed off toward the stranger. Disregarding the gunboat's hail, the stranger—a barkentine-rigged steamer bearing the unmistakable lines of a British gunboat and flying the red British ensign—bore on toward Oneida. Winona came about and gave chase.