[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jung Woo-sung

Festival for his performance. Shortly afterwards, Jung worked again with Kim Jee-woon on a short film for W Korea.

Jung then starred alongside Chinese actress Gao Yuanyuan in Hur Jin-ho's romance film A Season of Good Rain, and Su Chao-pin's martial arts film Reign of Assassins with Michelle Yeoh.

In 2011, Jung was cast in the English-language 3D remake of John Woo's The Killer. The film was to be shot in Los Angeles, and reunite him with A Moment to Remember director John H. Lee and Reign of Assassins director John Woo acting also as producer. The project was put on hold while John Woo worked on another film. The project has not progressed any further.Jung drew praise in his first villain role in Cold Eyes, an action thriller that became a box office hit in 2013. He portrayed the ruthless head of a criminal organization specializing in bank robbery, eluding the detectives chasing him with uncanny dexterity.
Jung next played a baduk player seeking revenge in The Divine Move, followed by an adulterous university professor gradually losing his eyesight in Scarlet Innocence. Scarlet Innocence had its world premiere at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival, meeting with positive reviews from critics. He then took a leading role in the melodrama indie feature Don't Forget Me, also known as Remember You, a remake of the 2010 short film Remember O Goddess, both directed by Lee Yoon-jung. Jung had also co-produced this movie, explaining that he wanted to protect the director's original ideas that other producers wanted to modify.

In 2016, he starred in the noir crime thriller Asura: The City of Madness, his fourth collaboration with director Kim Sung-su. Jung played a crooked detective who attempts to save his terminally ill wife while arresting a corrupt town mayor. Asura premiered globally at the 41st Toronto Film Festival in September 2016, where it was shown in the Special Presentations section. The actor's second movie shot in 2016 and released in 2017 was Han Jae-rim's political drama The King, whose plot revolves around a senior prosecutor being manipulated by an overambitious younger colleague connected to the mafia.

In 2017, Jung stars in Steel Rain, playing a former agent from North Korea's intelligence bureau. 
In 2018 he played an officer of the elite police unit in the science fiction action thriller Illang: The Wolf Brigade. The film, based on the Japanese anime Jin-Roh: The Wolf Brigade, was his second collaboration with director Kim Jee-woon.

In 2019, he is set to star in drama film Innocent Witness as a lawyer. His performance earned him the Grand Prize in film at the Baeksang Arts Awards. 
The same year he starred in the thriller Beasts that Cling to the Straw.

In 2020, Jung starred in the sequel of Steel Rain, titled Steel Rain 2: Summit. Jung starred alongside Lee Jung-jae in Lee's directorial debut, spy action film Hunt which premiered at 2022 Cannes Film Festival.

Television 
In 1995 Jung appeared in his first major television role in SBS drama series Asphalt Man, playing an aspiring race driver who leaves to United States to realize his dream. The part not only expanded his popularity but also brought him critical acclaim with Best New Actor award at 32nd Baeksang Arts Awards  and SBS Drama Awards.

In 2010 Jung returned to the small screen after 15 years' absence in the big-budget spy series Athena: Goddess of War, playing an NTS (National Anti-Terror Service) agent. Athena was a spin-off to the 2009 highly successful KBS2 drama IRIS. With a budget of  (), the series was shot on location in Italy, New Zealand, Japan and the United States. The aired in SBS channel, and its pilot episodes gathered 22.8% of the audience share. Jung and another actor were injured during filming in January 2011, causing a week's postponement of one of Athena's episodes.  The series was also edited into a two-hour movie version, and released in 2011 as Athena: The Movie.

He made his Japanese drama debut with a guest appearance in episodes 6 and 7 of Good Life ~Arigatou, Papa. Sayonara~.

Jung followed that with another TV series Padam Padam which marked the establishment of new cable broadcasting station JTBC. Jung said he "decided on this drama because (he) was drawn to the way Noh Hee-kyung writes 'family drama.' Whether mother-son or father-son, the love and pain experienced by families is something (he)'d like to try portraying in a realistic way." He played a man who has recently been released from jail after serving a 16-year sentence for a crime he didn't commit. The series premiered on December 5, 2011.

In December 2020, he replaced Bae Seung-woo for SBS television series Delayed Justice as leading role. Jung served as an executive producer for Netflix series The Silent Sea in 2021. and in 2022 he will star remake of Japanese drama Say Me to Love Me