[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Terminator video games

This list of Terminator video games includes video games based on the Terminator film series. The films generally focus on humans attempting to prevent the rise of Skynet, an artificial intelligence. In the future, Skynet will wipe out most of humanity with help from its army of Terminator machines.

The first Terminator game was released for DOS in July 1991, and is based on the original film, The Terminator (1984). Other games based on the first film and its sequel, Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991), were released over the next two years. Subsequent films also received game adaptations, and several non-film based games have also been released.

The Terminator (1984 film) games
Several video games titled The Terminator were released, each of them based on the 1984 film of the same name. By 1988, Danish company Robtek had acquired the license to create games based on the film, but it subsequently went into receivership before any game could be released.

By mid-1989, development was underway by Sunsoft on a Terminator game, which would be released for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES). However, Sunsoft lost the license and eventually published the game as Journey to Silius in 1990. Sunsoft reportedly lost the Terminator license because the game did not follow the plot of the film, instead focusing solely on Kyle Reese as he battles Skynet's machines in the future. Gameplay footage had been shown at the Winter Consumer Electronics Show in 1989, and the footage would resurface 30 years later.

DOS version

The Terminator is a DOS action-adventure game based on the first movie. In mid-1990, Bethesda Softworks announced a deal with the Hemdale Film Corporation to create computer video games based on The Terminator. Bethesda Softworks developed and published the game in July 1991. It was the first game based on the Terminator film series.

Sega versions

A shoot 'em up game, titled The Terminator, was developed by Probe Software and published by Virgin Games. It was released in 1992, for several Sega consoles: the Mega Drive/Genesis, the Master System, and the Game Gear.

Another shoot 'em up game, also titled The Terminator, was released for the Sega CD. It was developed and published by Virgin Games in 1993. The graphics and music took advantage of the Sega CD's capabilities, and the game includes the use of full motion video from the film.

Nintendo versions

A side-scrolling action game titled The Terminator was released for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) in December 1992. Gameplay consists of platforming and driving stages, with Kyle Reese as the player character. It was sublicensed by Bethesda Softworks, developed by Radical Entertainment, and published by Mindscape. Gary Whitta of Computer and Video Games (CVG) was critical of the graphics, and considered the gameplay outdated with no originality. He rated it 61 out of 100, while MegaFun rated it 55 out of 100.

Another side-scrolling action game, also titled The Terminator, was released for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES). It was developed by Gray Matter and published by Mindscape in April 1993. The SNES version also puts the player in control of Kyle Reese. It features levels based on the film, including the future war in 2029, and the police station and nightclub in Los Angeles 1984. It also includes several driving levels.

CVG rated the SNES version 70 out of 100. The magazine criticized the graphics, stating that they resembled an 8-bit game rather than the 16-bit capability of the SNES. CVG also criticized the difficulty, stating that checkpoints are placed too far apart. N-Force found the gameplay boring and exceedingly difficult, rating the game 55 out of 100. Nintendo Power considered the game an improvement over Mindscape's NES version. The magazine praised the graphics and music, while MegaFun found the graphics dreary and the sound monotonous, rating the game 58 out of 100. Reviewers for GameFan were critical of the game but praised its driving levels.

Mobile game

A mobile game, The Terminator, was released in 2003. It is a shoot 'em up developed and published by In-Fusio.

Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991 film) games
Several video games based on Terminator 2: Judgment Day were released between 1991 and 1993.