[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Provisional Irish Republican Army campaign

ber was killed, several knee-capped and more ordered to disband. The last known example of this practise as of February 2007 took place in 2000 and involved the shooting dead of a Real Irish Republican Army member for his opposition to the Provisionals' ceasefire.

Activities in Republic of Ireland 

Although the Provisional IRA's General Order No.8 forbids military action "against 26 County forces under any circumstances whatsoever", members of the Garda Síochána (the Republic of Ireland's police force) have also been killed, including Detective Garda Jerry McCabe. McCabe was killed by machine-gun fire as he sat in his patrol car in Adare County Limerick during the escort of a post office delivery in 1996. Sinn Féin has called for the release of his killers under the terms of the Good Friday Agreement. In total, the Provisional IRA killed six Gardaí and one Irish Army soldier, mostly during robberies.

Robberies and criminal enterprise 

The Provisional IRA has carried out numerous bank and post office robberies across Ireland throughout its existence. An RUC estimate from 1982–83, puts the amount stolen in such raids by the Provisional IRA at around £700,000 (sterling). Also in the 1980s, the Provisional IRA were involved in the kidnapping and ransom of businessmen Gaelen Weston, Ben Dunne and Don Tidey. Activities such as these were linked to the IRA's fund-raising. Gardaí estimate that the Provisional IRA got up to £1.5 million from these activities. Activities include smuggling, sale of stolen items and contraband including cigarettes, red diesel, extortion, protection rackets, and money laundering. Most recently, the Provisional IRA have been blamed for carrying out the Northern Bank Robbery in December 2004, although no proof was ever forwarded and this crime remains unsolved. The IMC note that in their view the Provisional IRA has not had any "organisational involvement in robbery or other such organised crime".

Thomas Murphy, a prominent Provisional IRA leader from South Armagh, has been the subject of repeated rumours of organised crime including diesel smuggling and tax evasion. In 2006 both Irish and British security forces mounted a major joint raid on his farm, and in December 2015 he was arrested and put on trial in Dublin's Special Criminal Court charged with tax evasion. He was found guilty of tax evasion on 17 December 2015.

See also 

 Chronologies of Provisional Irish Republican Army actions
 Improvised tactical vehicles of the Provisional IRA
 List of attacks on British aircraft during The Troubles

References

Sources 

 J. Bowyer Bell, The Secret Army: the IRA.  
 Martin Dillon, 25 Years of Terror – the IRA's War against the British. 
 Richard English, Armed Struggle – the History of the IRA. 
 Peter Taylor, Behind the Mask – the IRA and Sinn Féin. 
 Ed Moloney, The Secret History of the IRA. 
 Eamonn Mallie and Patrick Bishop, The Provisional IRA. 
 Toby Harnden, Bandit Country – The IRA and South Armagh. 
 Brendan O'Brien, The Long War – The IRA and Sinn Féin. 
 Tim Pat Coogan, The Troubles. 
 Tony Geraghty, The Irish War. 
 Kevin Toolis, Rebel Hearts. 
 David McKitrick, Seamus Kelters, Brian Feeney, Chris Thornton, David McVea, Lost Lives. 

 
Irish Republican Army campaigns
Guerrilla wars
History of Northern Ireland
.Campaign