[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lovell Rousseau

bureau, whereas Grinnell strongly supported the bill as a former active abolitionist and aide to runaway slaves. The debates eventually turned into mudslinging, Grinnell questioning Rousseau's military record and insulting his performance in battle as well as a few comments on the state of Kentucky.

On June 14, 1866, Rousseau approached Grinnell in the east portico of the capitol building after a session of congress. He told Grinnell that he had been waiting for an apology from him for the insults he made about him before the House. Grinnell pretended not to know what Rousseau was talking about, enraging Rousseau who struck him repeatedly with the iron handle of his rattan cane until it broke. He struck him chiefly in the face but a few blows hit Grinnell's hand and shoulder. Grinnell walked away with only bruises and did not have to absent himself from congress. However, a committee was organized to investigate the incident which was composed of Nathaniel P. Banks, Henry J. Raymond, Rufus P. Spalding, M. Russell Thayer and John Hogan. Rousseau was reprimanded for his actions and soon later resigned. He was elected back the same year to fill the vacancy caused by himself and continued to serve until 1867.

Personal life 
Rousseau's daughter, Mary E. Rousseau, married Louis Douglas Watkins, USV, in Jefferson County, Kentucky, on August 4, 1864.

Later life and death
After leaving the House of Representatives, Rousseau was appointed brigadier general in the U.S. Army with the brevet rank of major general, and was assigned to duty in Alaska on March 27, 1867. General Rousseau played a key role in the transfer of Alaska from the Russian Empire to the United States on October 18, 1867, today celebrated as Alaska Day. On July 28, 1868, he was placed in command of the Department of Louisiana. He died in this capacity in New Orleans, Louisiana, on January 7, 1869. He was interred in Cave Hill National Cemetery in Louisville, Kentucky; in 1892, his wife had his body removed from Cave Hill and re-interred at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia. His monument at Cave Hill remains.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Union)
 Louisville in the American Civil War
 List of federal political scandals in the United States
 List of United States representatives expelled, censured, or reprimanded

Notes

References
 Retrieved on 2008-08-16
 Sons of the South: Battle of Leesburg (Ball's Bluff)
 Lovell Rousseau at Arlington National Cemetery
 Iowa Journal of History by the State Historical Society of Iowa
 Black, Col. Robert W. Cavalry Raids of the Civil War. Mechanicsburg, PA: Stackpole Books, 2004. .

External links

 
 
 Portrait of Gen. Rousseau on his horse

|-

1818 births
1869 deaths
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century American legislators
American lawyers admitted to the practice of law by reading law
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery
Censured or reprimanded members of the United States House of Representatives
Indiana lawyers
Indiana state senators
Indiana Whigs
Kentucky lawyers
Kentucky state senators
Kentucky Unionists
Louisville, Kentucky, in the American Civil War
Members of the Indiana House of Representatives
Members of the United States House of Representatives from Kentucky
People from Bloomfield, Indiana
People from Indiana in the Mexican–American War
People from Lincoln County, Kentucky
People of Kentucky in the American Civil War
Politicians from Louisville, Kentucky
Unconditional Union Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Kentucky
Union Army generals