[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Culture of Philadelphia

ademy of Music and the Merriam Theater. The Philadelphia Dance Company (Phildanco) was founded in 1970 and specializes in modern dance. The Koresh Dance Company was formed in 1991 and performs choreography that mixes elements of ballet, jazz, modern dance, and other dance forms.

Film and television

On December 18, 1895 Charles Francis Jenkins showed off his film projector at the Franklin Institute. It was the first demonstration of moving pictures using flexible film in Philadelphia. A week later Woodville Latham's eidoloscope was shown to Philadelphia audiences. German immigrant and optician, Siegmund Lubin, was impressed with the technology and bought Jenkins' camera. In Philadelphia he filmed his first film, his horse eating hay. Lubin continued to make films in Philadelphia, now showing them commercially, and built his own cameras and projectors which he marketed. He eventually created a production company, Lubin Manufacturing Company, in 1902. Shortly afterwards Lubin opened up some of the cities first movie theaters and in 1905 Jules Mastbaum opened the city's first Nickelodeon. Lubin Studios shut down in 1917 and through most of the 20th Century Philadelphia had an almost non-existent film industry. In 1985 the Greater Philadelphia Film Office was created as part of the city government, and, in 1992, it became a regional economic office. Since 1992 the GPFO, which promotes the Philadelphia region and helps coordinate film productions, has assisted in the making of over 200 films and television shows. Between 1992 and 2002 film productions have brought in US$500 Million to the city's economy. In 2007 MovieMaker Magazine named Philadelphia the second-best American city to make a movie in. The magazine cites local talent, cost of living and help provided by the Philadelphia Film Office as reasons. Several months after the MovieMaker Magazine article, Pacifica Ventures announced that it will be opening a film studio in the Philadelphia area in 2008. Every year Philadelphia hosts the Philadelphia Film Festival and the Philadelphia International Gay & Lesbian Film Festival.  The Philadelphia Asian American Film Festival started in October 2008.

In the early 1930s, Philco Corp. founded Philadelphia's first experimental television station, W3XE. That station became NBC's first affiliate in 1939, and in 1941 the station became WPTZ-TV after it was granted Philadelphia's first commercial license. By the late 1940s WPTZ, which would eventually become CBS owned and operated KYW-TV, was joined by WCAU-TV and WFIL-TV, now WPVI-TV. In succeeding decades, WHYY-TV, WPHL-TV, WTXF-TV and WPSG-TV joined the Philadelphia market. According to Nielsen Media Research Philadelphia has the fourth largest media market in the U.S. Major shows that were broadcast out of Philadelphia include American Bandstand, Double Dare and The Mike Douglas Show.

Cuisine

Philadelphia is the home of many culinary institutions, both gourmet and local staples. The city's immigrant history has allowed many tastes to mix and develop. The cheesesteak, created in Philadelphia in the 1930s, is a well known city icon. A popular Philadelphia argument is which of two cheesesteak rivals has the best steaks, Pat's Steaks, which invented the cheesesteak, and Geno's Steaks. Italian ice (often referred to exclusively as "water ice" in the Philadelphia area) and soft pretzels were not invented in Philadelphia, but because of their popularity and availability have become Philadelphia staples. Irish potato candy is a popular Philadelphia confection that is especially popular around St. Patrick's Day.

During the 18th century, city taverns such as the London Coffee House and Tun Tavern (birthplace of the United States Marine Corps in 1775) were regular meeting places for the political and business leaders. Another tavern frequented by politicians is McGillin's Olde Ale House, which is the oldest continuously operated tavern in the city. In the late 19th century two Philadelphia landmarks were created, the Reading Terminal Market and Italian Market which sell all types of food and other commodities. The early 20th century saw the creation of the first automat in the United States on Chestnut Street and the founding of the Tasty Baking Company. For most of the 20th century fine dining could only be found in private clubs or dinner parties, but with the beginning of the city's revival in the 1970s a restaurant renaissance began. Starting with Le Bec-Fin in 1970, many upscale restaurants have sprung up in the popular neighborhoods. Philadelphia has since added over 150 upscale establishments, famously including the several trendy restaurants of Stephen Starr as well as dozens of sidewalk cafes and trendy bars. Such a renaissance has led to an acclamation of Philadelphia as a world-class "food city".