[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Terrorism in Syria

ndawi, who allegedly received Syrian government support after the bombing, and possibly beforehand. The European response was to impose sanctions against Syria and state that these measures were intended "to send Syria the clearest possible message that what has happened is absolutely unacceptable."

However, Syria has assisted the United States and other governments in their opposition to al-Qaeda. This include Syria's efforts in stemming the flow of al-Qaeda backed fighters from crossing into Iraq along its border. (Country Reports on Terrorism, Office of the Coordinator for Counterterrorism, 27 April 2005).

Before the Syrian Civil War, Hamas members received military style training in Iran and in Syria.

In 2012, Lebanon charged former Lebanese Minister Michel Samaha and a high-ranking Syrian military official,  Syria's National Security Bureau chief Ali Mamlouk, with being involved in a terror plot aimed at destabilizing Lebanon. Samaha is a longtime ally, and friend, of Syrian President Bashar Assad and Ali Mamlouk. Samaha reportedly confessed to his involvement in the terror plot, and some Lebanese politicians have called to break ties with the Assad government.

During the probe, it was alleged that Syrian President Bashar Assad gave direct orders to execute terrorist attacks in Lebanon, and Michel Samaha admitted that he was working for Assad's government in trying to execute a plan to detonate explosives in Akkar, Lebanon. Samaha admitted to collaborating with General Ali Mamlouk, who heads the Syrian national security bureau.

Numerous assassinations of opponents of Syria and the Syrian government have been alleged to involve the Syrian government.  Syria and its supporters claim that no substantial evidence has been produced to prove these allegations.

(December 2005) Gebran Tueni, an anti-Syrian journalist and lawmaker was assassinated. 
(September 2005) May Chidiac an anti-Syrian journalist and political commentator was severely injured in an assassination attempt against her life. 
(June 2005) Samir Kassir, an anti-Syrian journalist was assassinated. 
(February 2005) Rafic Hariri was killed by a car bomb which killed ten others. Hariri was a known opponent of the pro-Syrian policies of Émile Lahoud. The opposition parties in Lebanon accuse Syria of orchestrating the assassination.
(July 1980) Assassination of Riad Taha, a prominent journalist.
(March 1977) Assassination of Kamal Jumblatt, a prominent politician.

See also
United States and state-sponsored terrorism

References

External links
"Terrorism: The Syrian Connection", by Daniel Pipes
Syrian terrorist incidents

 
Syria
Human rights abuses in Syria