[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Chapter Two of the Constitution of South Africa

by children. These rights relate to domestic family life, child labour, education, imprisonment, and armed conflict. It is stated that "In this section, "child" means a person under the age of 18 years.“ and "A child's best interests are of paramount importance in every matter concerning the child.“

The rights listed are as follows
” to a name and a nationality from birth;”
” to family care or parental care, or to appropriate alternative care when removed from the family environment;”
” to basic nutrition, shelter, basic health care services, and social services;”
” to be protected from maltreatment, neglect, abuse or degradation;”
” to be protected from exploitative labour practices;”
” not to be required or permitted to perform work or provide services that are inappropriate for a person of that child's age; or place at risk the child's well-being, education, physical or mental health or spiritual, moral or social development;”
” not to be detained except as a measure of last resort, in which case, in addition to the rights a child enjoys under sections 12 and 35, the child may be detained only for the shortest appropriate period of time, and has the right to be kept separately from detained persons over the age of 18 years; and treated in a manner, and kept in conditions, that take account of the child's age;”
” to have a legal practitioner assigned to the child by the state, and at state expense, in civil proceedings affecting the child, if substantial injustice would otherwise result;”
” not to be used directly in armed conflict, and to be protected in times of armed conflict".

Education
Section 29 enshrines the right to education, and defines the positive responsibilities of the state in this respect. The Section states "Everyone has the right to a basic education, including adult basic education; and to further education, which the state, through reasonable measures, must make progressively available and accessible".

The right to education is amongst others recognised in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and Section 29 expands on this provision in detail with regard to language, and the right to the establishment of self-funded private schools.

The detailed provisions with regard to language reflect the fact that South Africa is a culturally diverse nation and has 11 official languages. Chapter 1 (Founding Provisions), Section 6 (Languages) of the Constitution of South Africa is the basis for the government language policy, and Section 29 (Chapter 2, Bill of Rights) places positive responsibilities upon the state in this regard.
Section 29 states that "Everyone has the right to receive education in the official language or languages of their choice in public educational institutions where that education is reasonably practicable. In order to ensure the effective access to, and implementation of, this right, the state must consider all reasonable educational alternatives, including single medium institutions, taking into account equity; practicability; and the need to redress the results of past racially discriminatory laws and practices".

See: Languages of South Africa

Language and culture
Section 30 also considers the issue of language in terms of cultural rights, although with limitation. Section 30 states that "Everyone has the right to use the language and to participate in the cultural life of their choice, but no one exercising these rights may do so in a manner inconsistent with any provision of the Bill of Rights".

See: Languages of South Africa

Cultural, religious and linguistic communities
Section 31 specifically considers cultural, religious, and linguistic communities within South Africa. Section 31 does not grant these communities group rights, but reaffirms their individual rights to exercise a number of cultural rights.

Section 31 states that "Persons belonging to a cultural, religious or linguistic community may not be denied the right, with other members of that community to enjoy their culture, practice their religion and use their language; and to form, join and maintain cultural, religious and linguistic associations and other organs of civil society".

Section 31 concludes with the following limitation "The rights in subsection (1) may not be exercised in a manner inconsistent with any provision of the Bill of Rights".

Access to information
Section 32 provides for the right to access to information, also known as the right to know. This provision is unique among human rights instruments but is comparable with freedom of information legislation in other countries. The right to know was enshrined in the South African Bill of Rights in reaction to the restrictive information policies of the Apartheid regime.

Section 32 states that "Everyone has the right of access to any information held by the state; and any information that is held by another person and that is required for the exercise or protection of any rights".