[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Perth Concert Hall (Western Australia)

The Perth Concert Hall is a concert hall located in Perth, the capital of the Australian state of Western Australia. Owned by the City of Perth, the hall is the main venue of the West Australian Symphony Orchestra, and also hosts a number of other events and performances. The building itself is located in Perth's central business district, adjacent to the Supreme Court Gardens and Government House. The building has two façades: facing north over St Georges Terrace, and facing south over the Swan River.

The concert hall was constructed on land granted to the City of Perth by the Government of Western Australia, and opened on Australia Day (26 January), 1973. Designed by Howlett and Bailey Architects, local architectural firm, the building is constructed in the Brutalist style, making heavy use of white off-form concrete and a solid opaque interior. The main auditorium of the hall seats 1,729 people, as well as a 160-person choir gallery and a 3000-pipe organ. Acoustically, the venue is considered one of the best in Australia, with the design overseen by the New Zealand acoustician Sir Harold Marshall.

History

In 1950, the Government of Western Australia granted the City of Perth land between Stirling Gardens and Government House. Howlett & Bailey designed an administrative building and an auditorium, however due to financial constraints, only the former was built, Council House opening in 1963. In 1968 Howlett & Bailey was appointed to design a concert hall with construction commencing in 1971. It was officially opened on 26 January 1973 by the Governor General Paul Hasluck, with Prime Minister Gough Whitlam also in attendance.

In January 2015 the West Australian Symphony Orchestra become the venue manager of the hall, taking over from AEG Ogden that had managed it since March 1999. In April 2018, the City of Perth approved a $1.4 million upgrade for the concert hall.

A $52 million redevelopment of the concert hall was announced in 2020 as part of the Perth City Deal project, with the WA government contributing $36.4 million, the federal government contributing $12 million and the City of Perth contributing $4 million. In March 2022, With Architecture Studio and Office for Metropolitan Architecture (OMA) were appointed lead architects for the redevelopment. In March 2023, the WA government announced an additional $98 million towards the project, bringing the total funding to $150 million. The redevelopment is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2024.

Architectural design

The building was designed by Howlett and Bailey Architects. Jeffrey Howlett and Don Bailey had won a design competition for a Town Hall and auditorium in 1961. Their design consisted of two buildings, one containing administrative offices and the other, oval in shape, comprising the "town hall" or auditorium. The administration offices, called Council House, were built, however financial constraints and doubts regarding the auditorium's acoustic properties meant that construction of the auditorium building was delayed.  Its design was subsequently re-considered and it was not until the late-1960s that a different plan was approved. This plan was
...to accommodate not more than 2,000 people and to cost no more than $2,000,000 and with the highest priority to be given to its musical uses, i.e. Symphony concerts, choral concerts, organ recitals, etc., and, in addition, performances of minimum staged ballet, fold dances or musical drama, and also be suitable for other functions such as large Civic receptions, conferences, conventions, public meetings, pageants, school speech days, pop concerts and folk singers.

Through 1969, the architectural plans were amended several times. These amendments included beautification and landscaping of the main pedestrian approach from St Georges Terrace and construction of a subway under the Terrace, a pit for a 60-piece orchestra with removable flooring and seating to cover the pit when not in use, and improved access and facilities for disabled people. The original plans included a restaurant with a seating capacity for 400, but following inspection of similar halls in the eastern states of Australia, it was decided that this was not warranted. It was, therefore, decided to make the restaurant smaller and include a tavern and cocktail bar, allowing patrons a wider choice. The bar area was named The Wardle Room, after Sir Thomas Wardle.