[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bruce Smith (Australian politician)

ns and "meddling legislation". He believed that 'if the issue [of Federation] were to come again before the people it would be negatived by the people'.   Smith was a strong supporter of the women's movement and was known as parliament's preeminent political economist and one of its finest debaters.

While a member of parliament, Smith continued to act as a barrister and was made a King's Counsel in 1904. Additionally, he served on numerous commercial boards, including as a director of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd, and held senior positions with community organisations such as New South Wales president of the British Empire League in Australia and state president of the Association for the Protection of Native Races.

Smith lost Nationalist preselection at the 1919 election and was defeated as an independent candidate, having spent almost all his period in federal parliament in opposition. He was offered the role of Speaker of the Australian House of Representatives twice but declined in order to concentrate on other matters.

Post-political life

In 1925 he retired to Bowral, New South Wales, where he died in 1937. Survived by two daughters and a son, Smith was buried beside his wife in the Bowral Church of England cemetery.

Smith was considered an anachronism by the end of his political career but his stature has been revived in recent years, thanks in part to the recent republishing of Liberty and Liberalism. Prominent historian Keith Windschuttle refers to Smith as "one of the outstanding intellectuals of Australian history", adding "were anyone to write a proper history of ideas in Australia, Smith should figure prominently". According to Geoffrey Bolton, Smith was once "dismissed as a spokesman for employers who wanted to introduce cheap non-European labour into White Australia", but by the late 20th century had been rehabilitated as "a tolerant multiculturalist ahead of his time".

References

1851 births
1937 deaths
Free Trade Party members of the Parliament of Australia
Members of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly
Members of the Australian House of Representatives
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Parkes
People educated at Wesley College (Victoria)
Melbourne Law School alumni
Treasurers of New South Wales
Commonwealth Liberal Party members of the Parliament of Australia
Nationalist Party of Australia members of the Parliament of Australia
Independent members of the Parliament of Australia
20th-century Australian politicians
Australian King's Counsel
20th-century King's Counsel