[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# History of Mesopotamia

bopolassar of Babylon. These allies, together with the Scythians, overthrew the Assyrian Empire and destroyed Nineveh in 612 BC. After the final victory at Carchemish in 605 BC the Medes and Babylonians ruled Assyria. Babylon and Media fell under Persian rule in the 6th century BC (Cyrus the Great).

For two centuries of Achaemenid rule both Assyria and Babylonia flourished, Achaemenid Assyria in particular becoming a major source of manpower for the army and a breadbasket for the economy. Mesopotamian Aramaic remained the lingua franca of the Achaemenid Empire, much as it had done in Assyrian times. Mesopotamia fell to Alexander the Great in 330 BC, and remained under Hellenistic rule for another two centuries, with Seleucia as capital from 305 BC. In the 1st century BC, Mesopotamia was in constant turmoil as the Seleucid Empire was weakened by Parthia on one hand and the Mithridatic Wars on the other. The Parthian Empire lasted for five centuries, into the 3rd century AD, when it was succeeded by the Sassanids. After constant wars between Romans and first Parthians, later Sassanids; the western part of Mesopotamia was passed to the Roman Empire. Christianity as well as Mandeism entered Mesopotamia from the 1st to 3rd centuries AD, and flourished, particularly in Assyria (Assuristan in Sassanid Persian), which became the center of the Assyrian Church of the East and a flourishing Syriac Christian tradition which remains to this day. A number of Neo-Assyrian kingdoms arose, in particular Adiabene. The Sassanid Empire and Byzantine Mesopotamia finally fell to the Rashidun army under Khalid ibn al-Walid in the 630s. After the Arab-Islamic conquest of the mid-7th century AD, Mesopotamia saw an influx of non native Arabs and later also Turkic peoples. The city of Assur was still occupied until the 14th century, and Assyrians possibly still formed the majority in northern Mesopotamia until the Middle Ages. Assyrians retain Eastern Rite Christianity whereas the Mandaeans retain their ancient gnostic religion and Mesopotamian Aramaic as a mother tongue and written script to this day. Among these peoples, the giving of traditional Mesopotamian names is still common.
 Classical Antiquity
 Median and Babylonian Assyria (605 to 549 BC)
 Persian Babylonia,
 Achaemenid Assyria (6th to 4th centuries BC)
 Seleucid Mesopotamia (4th to 2nd centuries BC)
 Parthian Asuristan (Assyria) (2nd century BC to 3rd century AD)
 Osroene (2nd century BC to 3rd century AD)
 Adiabene (1st to 2nd centuries AD)
 Roman Mesopotamia (2nd to 7th centuries AD), Roman Assyria (2nd century AD)
 Late Antiquity
 Sassanid Asuristan (Assyria) (3rd to 7th centuries AD)
 Arab Muslim conquest of Mesopotamia, dissolution of Assyria (633–651 AD)

See also

 Assyria
 Babylonia
 Cradle of civilization
 Music of Mesopotamia
 History of Iraq
 Sumer

 History of institutions in Mesopotamia

References

Citations

Notes

Bibliography

Further reading