[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Alberto Giacometti

s usually imitation, the end products were an expression of his emotional response to the subject. He attempted to create renditions of his models the way he saw them, and the way he thought they ought to be seen. He once said that he was sculpting not the human figure but "the shadow that is cast".

Scholar William Barrett in Irrational Man: A Study in Existential Philosophy (1962), argues that the attenuated forms of Giacometti's figures reflect the view of 20th century modernism and existentialism that modern life is increasingly empty and devoid of meaning. "All the sculptures of today, like those of the past, will end one day in pieces...So it is important to fashion one's work carefully in its smallest recess and charge every particle of matter with life."

A 2011–2012 exhibition at the Pinacothèque de Paris focused on showing how Giacometti was inspired by Etruscan art.

Walking Man and other human figures 
Giacometti is best known for the bronze sculptures of tall, thin human figures, made in the years 1945 to 1960. Giacometti was influenced by the impressions he took from the people hurrying in the big city. People in motion he saw as "a succession of moments of stillness".

The emaciated figures are often interpreted as an expression of the existential fear, insignificance and loneliness of mankind. The mood of fear in the period of the 1940s and the Cold War is reflected in this figure. It feels sad, lonely and difficult to relate to.

Legacy

Exhibitions 
Giacometti's work has been the subject of numerous solo exhibitions including the High Museum of Art, Atlanta (1970); Centre Pompidou, Paris (2007–2008); Pushkin Museum, Moscow "The Studio of Alberto Giacometti: Collection of the Fondation Alberto et Annette Giacometti" (2008); Kunsthal Rotterdam (2008); Fondation Beyeler, Basel (2009);  Buenos Aires (2012); Kunsthalle Hamburg (2013); Pera Museum, Istanbul (2015); Tate Modern, London (2017); Vancouver Art Gallery, "Alberto Giacometti: A Line Through Time" (2019); National Gallery of Ireland, Dublin (2022).

The National Portrait Gallery, London's first solo exhibition of Giacometti's work, Pure Presence opened to five star reviews on 13 October 2015 (to 10 January 2016, in honour of the fiftieth anniversary of the artist's death).
From April 2019, the Prado Museum in Madrid, has been highlighting Giacometti in an exhibition.

Public collections 
Giacometti's work is displayed in numerous public collections, including:

 Albright-Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo
 Art Institute of Chicago
 Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore, Maryland
 Bechtler Museum of Modern Art, Charlotte, North Carolina
 Berggruen Museum, Berlin
 Botero Museum, Bogotá, Colombia
 Bündner Kunstmuseum Chur, Switzerland
 Carnegie Museum of Art, Pittsburgh
 Detroit Institute of Arts
 Fondation Beyeler, Basel
 Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washington D.C.
 J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, California
 Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University
 Kunsthaus Zürich
 Kunstmuseum Basel
 Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art, South Korea
 Los Angeles County Museum of Art
 Louisiana Museum of Modern Art, Denmark
 Minneapolis Institute of Art
 Museum of Modern Art, New York
 Museum of Fine Arts, Boston
 National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C.
 National Gallery of Canada, Ottawa
 North Carolina Museum of Art, Raleigh, North Carolina
 Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts, University of East Anglia
 Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art, Scottsdale, Arizona
 Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York
 Tate, London
 Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art, Iran
 University of Michigan Museum of Art
 Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford
 Walker Art Center, Minneapolis
Vancouver Art Gallery

Art foundations 
The Fondation Alberto et Annette Giacometti, having received a bequest from Alberto Giacometti's widow Annette, holds a collection of circa 5,000 works, frequently displayed around the world through exhibitions and long-term loans. A public interest institution, the Foundation was created in 2003 and aims at promoting, disseminating, preserving and protecting Alberto Giacometti's work.

The Alberto-Giacometti-Stiftung established in Zürich in 1965, holds a smaller collection of works acquired from the collection of the Pittsburgh industrialist G. David Thompson.

Notable sales 
According to record Giacometti has sold the two most expensive sculptures in history.

In November 2000 a Giacometti bronze, Grande Femme Debout I, sold for $14.3 million. Grande Femme Debout II was bought by the Gagosian Gallery for $27.4 million at Christie's auction in New York City on 6 May 2008.

L'Homme qui marche I, a life-sized bronze sculpture of a man, became one of the most expensive works of art, and at the time was the most expensive sculpture ever sold at auction. It was in February 2010, when it sold for £65 million (US$104.3 million) at Sotheby's, London. Grande tête mince, a large bronze bust, sold for $53.3 million just three months later.