[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Radja Nainggolan

e his debut in his country's First Division on 22 September, starting in the 4–2 home victory against Genk. His first goal in the competition was the game's only away to neighbours Beerschot on 5 December, and he dedicated the goal to his late mother whose honour had been insulted by the local fans.

On 17 October 2022, Nainggolan was suspended indefinitely by Antwerp after being arrested for driving with an expired driver's licence and later smoking an electronic cigarette on the bench ahead of a 3–0 loss at Standard Liége. In December, he left by mutual consent.

SPAL
After weeks of speculation, on 30 January 2023 Nainggolan officially joined Italian second-tier club SPAL, coached by former Roma team-mate and friend Daniele De Rossi, on a free transfer, signing a five-month contract with an option for one more season in case of promotion.

International career

Due to his father's heritage, Nainggolan was eligible to represent both Indonesia and Belgium, but ultimately chose to play for the latter nation. He took part at the 2007–09 International Challenge Trophy finals, a tournament which the under-23 team won.

Nainggolan earned his first senior cap on 29 May 2009, against Chile in the Kirin Cup. He scored his first goal for the Red Devils on 5 March 2014, in a 2–2 friendly draw with Côte d'Ivoire.

On 13 May 2014, Nainggolan was selected in a standby list for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. He did not make the final cut, however.

Nainggolan was a starter for the Marc Wilmots-led side during the UEFA Euro 2016 qualifying campaign. He scored in an away draw with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and a 4–1 win in Andorra as the team qualified for the tournament for the first time in 16 years.

Nainggolan was selected to the finals in France. He made his debut in the tournament on 13 June, playing 62 minutes in a 2–0 loss against Italy. After featuring as a second-half substitute in the second game, a 3–0 defeat of the Republic of Ireland, he returned to the starting XI against Sweden, scoring the game's only goal at the Stade de Nice after a counter-attack to send his country to the knockout stage as second; in the quarter-finals, he netted from 25 metres to put his country ahead against Wales after 12 minutes, but in an eventual 3–1 loss.

On 26 August 2017, aged 29, Nainggolan announced that he would be retiring from international football after not being selected for Belgium's upcoming World Cup qualifiers, and stated that he would be focusing on his club career with Roma. However, he was selected by new manager Roberto Martínez for friendlies against Mexico and Japan in November, only to pull out due to injury.

On 21 May 2018, after once again not being picked for the upcoming World Cup in Russia, Nainggolan retired from the international scene.

Style of play
Nainggolan is a quick, dynamic, hard-working, physically strong and versatile midfielder, who is capable of playing in several midfield positions; possessing good vision, passing range, and technique, he is often used as a playmaker in front of his team's defensive line. He is also known for his attacking drive, ability to get forward and eye for goal from midfield, courtesy of his powerful and accurate striking ability from distance, as well as his movement and ability to make late attacking runs off the ball; his talent, energy, skill, and wide range of attributes led to him being used in a more offensive role as an advanced playmaker behind the two forwards during his time with Cagliari.

Due to his pace, stamina, tenacity and aggressive tackling, as well as his willingness and ability to chase down and press opponents off the ball, Nainggolan is also a good ball-winner, and has frequently been used in a box-to-box role; he is also capable of playing as a winger. After his move to Roma, he was mainly deployed as a central or defensive midfielder in a 4–3–3 formation or in the "mezzala" role, and on occasion even as a right-back; following the arrival of Luciano Spalletti, however, he returned to playing in a more advanced role as an attacking midfielder or second striker in a 4–2–3–1 or a 3–4–2–1 formation. He has also been used in a more central or attacking role on occasion, or even as a false attacking midfielder.

In addition to his footballing abilities, Nainggolan has also been praised for his leadership in the media, although he has also drawn criticism for his difficult character and his involvement in several controversial incidents off the pitch.

Outside of football

Personal life
Nainggolan married Claudia Lai, with the couple being parents to daughters Aysha (b. 2012) and Mailey (b. 2016). His twin sister, Riana, is also a footballer; she is openly lesbian and he spoke out against homophobia.

On 10 July 2019, Lai confirmed in an Instagram post that she had been diagnosed with cancer and would begin chemotherapy treatment.