[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Milan Lukić

. He said that he feared people on his own side, "Karadžić's people". He told the court: "I know lots of things happened during the war, and I was afraid that they would kill me because there are many who do not want it known what happened. As the saying goes: better to be a tongue without a voice."

He was returned to The Hague. On 24 February 2006, he made his initial appearance before the Tribunal and pleaded not guilty to twelve counts of crimes against humanity (persecution, murder [5 counts], inhumane acts [4 counts], extermination [2 counts]) and nine counts of violations of the laws or customs of war (murder [5 counts], cruel treatment [4 counts]). A request by the Prosecution to have Lukić's case referred to the national authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina was ultimately denied by the Appeals Chamber of the ICTY. On Friday, 20 July 2007, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) decided to revoke the referral of the Sredoje Lukić case to Bosnia and Herzegovina, clearing the way for it to be tried jointly in The Hague with the case of Milan Lukić. The Lukićs' co-indictee, Mitar Vasiljević, had already been convicted and sentenced for his part in crimes committed in association with Lukić.

ICTY trial and conviction

Milan Lukić was charged on the basis of individual criminal responsibility (Article 7(1) of the Statute of the Tribunal) with:
 Persecutions on political, racial and religious grounds; murder; inhumane acts; and extermination (crimes against humanity, Article 5)
 Murder; and cruel treatment (violations of laws or customs of war, Article 3)

On 20 July 2009 judgment was handed down in Case IT-98-32 against Lukić and Sredoje Lukić by the International Criminal Tribunal's Trial Chamber III, judges Patrick Robinson (Presiding), Christine Van Den Wyngaert and Pedro David.

The Trial Chamber found Milan Lukić guilty on all charges, convicting him, on the basis of individual criminal responsibility (Article 7 (1) of the Statute of the Tribunal), of:
 Persecutions on political, racial and religious grounds (crimes against humanity, Article 5);
 Murder (crimes against humanity, Article 5);
 Murder (violations of the laws and customs of war, Article 3);
 Inhumane acts (crimes against humanity, Article 5);
 Cruel treatment (violations of the laws and customs of war, Article 3);
The Chamber, by majority, with Judge Van Den Wyngaert dissenting, also convicted Milan Lukić of:
 Extermination (crimes against humanity, Article 5)

The specific crimes, committed as part of a widespread and systematic attack against the Bosnian Muslim civilians of the municipality of Visegrad and its surrounding area, included the following:
 Milan Lukić led seven Bosnian Muslim men to a site on the bank of the Drina river, near Višegrad, forced them to line up along the bank, and then shot them, killing five of the men.
 He forced seven Bosnian Muslim men from the Varda sawmill and furniture factory in Višegrad to go to the bank of the Drina river, and then shot them repeatedly, killing all seven men.
 He murdered approximately 70 Bosnian Muslim women, children and elderly men in a house on Pionirska Street in Višegrad by barricading the victims in one room of the house, setting the house on fire and then firing automatic weapons at those people who tried to escape through the windows, killing some and injuring others.
 He murdered approximately 70 Bosnian Muslim women, children and elderly men in a house in the village of Bikavac, near Višegrad, by forcing the victims into the house, barricading all the exits and throwing in several explosive devices.
 He brutally murdered a Bosnian Muslim woman in the Potok neighbourhood of Višegrad.
 He beat, on multiple occasions, Bosnian Muslim men who were detained in the detention camp at the Uzamnica military barracks in Višegrad.

Lukić's defense claimed he was a victim of "rumors" and mistaken identity claiming witnesses had misidentified him. Lukić was found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment. His cousin Sredoje Lukić was found guilty of crimes including aiding and abetting the murders at Pionirska Street and was sentenced to 30 years imprisonment.

ICTY failure to prosecute crimes of rape
The Association of Women Victims of War, representing Višegrad rape victims, expressed anger at the ICTY's failure to prosecute Milan Lukić for rape and rapes committed under his authority. The Association's head, Bakira Hasečić, who has described how she herself was raped at knifepoint by Lukić in a basement of the Višegrad police station, claimed rape victims were let down by the failure of the ICTY to charge either Milan Lukić or Sredoje Lukić with rape or sexual abuse.