[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of PlayStation games incompatible with PlayStation 2

enes during the game.)
Tanaka Torahiko no Ultra-ryuu Shougi - Ibisha Anaguma-hen (The screen is not displayed normally on the environment setting screen after selecting "Option" from the title menu.)
Test Drive 4 (If a player make specific settings in "Options" of the title menu, part of the course may not be displayed properly.)
Test Drive Off-Road / Gekitotsu! Yonku Battle (The screen may not be displayed properly in the ending movie during the game.)
The City of Lost Children
The Hive
The Hoobs
The Land Before Time: Great Valley Racing Adventure
The X-Files
Three Lions
Toaplan Shooting Battle 1 (In "Ultimate TIGER" and "TWIN COBRA", the speed during the game is slow.)
Tomba!
Transport Tycoon
Tsuridou - Keiryuu Mizuumihen (When a player try to display the screen by selecting "Option", it is not displayed.)
Twins Story - Kimi ni Tsutaetakute (After setting items on the schedule screen, the image stops when the execution starts.)
Twisted Metal 2: World Tour
Ultimate Fighting Championship
U.P.P. (The screen may not be displayed properly after the logo is displayed when the game is started.)
Vandal Hearts II
Victory Boxing Contender
Vigilante 8
Virtua Pachi-Slot EX (BGM and sound effects do not sound normally.)
Virtua Pachi-Slot V - Yamasa, Kitadenshi, Olympia  (BGM and sound effects do not sound normally.)
Virtua Pachi-Slot VI (BGM and sound effects do not sound normally.)
VR Sports Powerboat Racing
Walt Disney World Quest: Magical Racing Tour
Warpath: Jurassic Park
Westlife Fan-O-Mania
Wing Commander III - Heart of the Tiger (During video playback, the screen blacks out, an error message is displayed at the top of the screen, and the image stops.)
Worms (The title movie and opening movie at the time of starting the game are not played normally, and the game proceeds to the next scene.)

PlayStation 2 games
AC Milan Club Football 2005
Arsenal Club Football 2005
Aston Villa Club Football 2005
Ai Yori Aoshi - Limited Edition (During the game, BGM may not be played normally or the screen may freeze.)
ATV Offroad Fury 3
Bakusou Dekotora Densetsu - Otoko Hanamichi Yume Roman (The screen may freeze during the race. - SCPH 750XX series only)
Beyond Good & Evil (The sound effects keep repeating.)
Big Mutha Truckers
Big Mutha Truckers 2: Truck Me Harder
Birmingham City Club Football 2005
Chelsea Club Football 2005
Destruction Derby Arenas
Duel Masters - Birth of Super Dragon (The screen may stop when the game is played with the character "Kyoshiro Kokujo" equipped with armor. - SCPH-750XX series only)
ESPN NBA 2K5
EverQuest Online Adventures: Frontiers
EA Sports F1 2001 (The screen may freeze after the logo is displayed when the game is started.)
F1 2002 (With GT-FORCE connected the screen may stop after the logo is displayed. This doesn't occur when it's connected after the game is started or a DualShock 2 is connected.)
Fight Night Round 2
Final Fantasy XI (100% incompatible with the system, as the game requires the PlayStation 2 Hard Disk Drive, with which the Slimline doesn't support or fit.)
Gadget & the Gadgetinis
Gauntlet Dark Legacy (The screen may freeze after playing the movie when the game starts.) 
Get on Da Mic 
Initial D Special Stage (After skipping the opening movie, the screen may stop immediately after selecting each game mode from the title screen. - SCPH-750XX series only) 
International Cue Club 2 
Hitman: Contracts (It takes some time to create save data.) 
Jak X: Combat Racing
Kaido Touge no Densetsu (When colliding with a wall or guardrail during a race, the sound effect may continue to be played. - SCPH-750XX series only)
Lethal Skies Elite Pilot: Team SW
Looney Tunes: Back in Action
Major League Baseball 2K5
MX World Tour
Naruto: Uzumaki Chronicles (The disc is unable to be read most of the time. After starting there are no issues. - SCPH-750XX series only)
Onimusha: Warlords
Racing Battle - C1 Grand Prix (When colliding with a wall or guardrail during a race, the sound effect may continue to be played.)
Shin Bakusou Dekotora Densetsu (The screen may freeze during the race. - SCPH-750XX series only)
Shutokou Battle 01 (When colliding with a wall or guardrail during a race, the sound effect may continue to be played. - SCPH-750XX series only)
Silent Hill 3
Simple 2000 Ultimate Series Vol. 22 - Stylish Mahjong Usagi (The screen may freeze on the data save screen after changing the option.)
SOCOM II U.S. Navy SEALs
SpongeBob SquarePants: Lights, Camera, Pants!
SRS: Street Racing Syndicate
Super Monkey Ball Deluxe (PAL version works with no issues on slim.) 
SWAT: Global Strike Team
Tekken 5 (If "Tekken 3" selected in ARCADE HISTORY where a player can enjoy successive games, the screen may stop after the save screen. - SCPH-750XX series only)
Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005
Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Jungle Storm
Ty the Tasmanian Tiger 3: Night of the Quinkan (Game does not work on NTSC consoles)
Usagi Yasei no Topai (The screen may freeze on the data save screen after changing the option.)
Wacky Races