[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Blockade of Wonsan

ng their daily barrage which continued in June. Heavy gun strikes also continued and the communists resisted every UN attack but very few hits were made. On June 3, Wonsan shore batteries fifteen 105-millimeter shells at  and USS Lofberg but no damage occurred. The guns were silenced by return fire.

USS LSMR-409 was hit on June 4, causing moderate damage to the messing compartment and the radio room, and resulting in five men wounded. The enemy fired thirty rounds of 76-millimeter fire before being silenced by over 200 rockets from the LSMR.  destroyed five North Korean fishing boats on the beach at the northern end of Ho-do Pan-do. The weather was very foggy due to Typhoon Judy, which hampered TF-77's operations for three days. Lofberg and John A. Bole were attacked on June 8 by batteries, but it was another inconclusive contact. John A. Bole spent the next day bombarding enemy guns. On June 11, USS Wiltsie received an estimated forty-five rounds of 105-millimeter fire. The vessel was hit once on the starboard side of her main deck but was still completely operational. Shrapnel caused a lot of damage and a four-inch hole in the deck. No casualties were inflicted on American forces.

Three days after this incident USS Bremerton, USS Lofberg and USS John A. Bole exchanged fire with the batteries, several guns were destroyed and there were no friendly casualties. Lofberg, John A. Bole and  received 110 rounds of fire on the next day without effect. Shore batteries on Ho-do Pan-do were increasingly menacing the allied blockade. Concentrated fire was directed against destroyers in Wonsan Harbor on June 17.  and  re-escaped to seventy-five founds and Henderson avoided another seventy-five, the nearest landing ten yards from Henderson.

Irwin and Rowan would fight another battle the following day. In it the North Koreans scored their highest number of hits in one engagement. USS Irwin was hit by one round from Kalmagak and it tore a  hole in the main deck. Five American sailors were wounded. Rowan suffered five hits and ten wounded and she received forty-five rounds of different caliber altogether. The destroyer was moderately damaged. Thirty-six shells were fired at Saint Paul but she was not hit.

A small surface engagement occurred the same day. An armed South Korean Army intelligence boat encountered a North Korean thirty foot patrol boat and for ten minutes the vessels fought until the North Koreans withdrew under cover of a battery. The patrol boat had a speed of twenty knots, carried a radio and was armed with rocket launchers, machine guns and the crew carried various small arms. On June 19 Rowan and Bremerton were fired on but no hits resulted.

USS Manchester was conducting a heavy bombardment of Wonsan on or about July 3 when fragments from a near miss put a two-inch hole in the after stack and through the door of a powder room. On July 7, North Korean gunners on Ho-do Pan-do fired on the blockade. Over 300 rounds of 76-millimeter to 122-millimeter fire landed near USS Lofberg, USS Thomason and . Thomason suffered holes and dents topside due to air burst straddles, but there were no casualties. The Americans returned 880 rounds of counter battery fire before the action ended.

A few days after, North Korean artillery fired forty-eight rounds of 76-millimeter to 105-millimeter shells at USS Saint Paul and scored a hit on a gun mount. Two guns were damaged but nobody was wounded. For the next several days, the North Koreans focused on attacking UN islands until July 23, when Saint Paul drew twelve rounds of 155-millimeter fire, all of which splashed in the water ten to fifty yards from the ship. On July 27 Saint Paul fired the last American shots of the battle against shore batteries. With the signing of an armistice, the fighting came to an end after 861 days of action.

Aftermath
United Nations ships at Wonsan achieved a significant goal by maintaining a blockade against hostile territory for so long. UN naval forces inflicted heavy casualties on the North Korean forces while sustaining comparatively few casualties of their own. The North Korean artillerymen who defended Wonsan were mostly ineffective, thousands of dollars' worth of artillery shells were wasted. Wonsan was destroyed and remained so for years after the war, but due to its location, it was eventually rebuilt and is still an important strategic point.

See also
 List of US Navy ships sunk or damaged in action during the Korean War

References

 
Wonsan
Blockades
Naval battles of the Korean War
Blockades involving the United Kingdom
Blockades involving the United States
Battles and operations of the Korean War in 1951
Battles and operations of the Korean War in 1952
Battles and operations of the Korean War in 1953
Battles of the Korean War involving South Korea 
Battles of the Korean War involving North Korea
Battles of the Korean War involving the United Kingdom