[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Jamie Yates

Jamie Yates (born 24 December 1988) is an English Football coach and professional footballer who is the player/assistant manager of Sheffield FC.

As a player he is a midfielder who notably played in the Football League for Rotherham United, before going on to spend his career in non-league football with Burton Albion, Alfreton Town, Boston United, Gainsborough Trinity, North Ferriby United, Matlock Town and now Sheffield FC

Playing career

Rotherham United

He signed a new one-year contract with Rotherham in May 2008. Yates was released from the club in June 2009 after making 34 appearances scoring 3 goals. Notably scoring v Mansfield in 2008 sending them to the national league in a 0-1 Victory at Field Mill.

In January 2009, Yates joined Conference National club Burton Albion initially on a month's loan, which was subsequently extended to the end of the season. He scored his first goal for Burton in a 0–1 win away to Grays Athletic on his league debut for the club, a match which also set a new Conference record of twelve consecutive wins.

Non-League
After a successful spell at Boston United winning promotion to the National League North and making 77 appearances across almost 20 months. Yates signed for rivals Gainsborough Trinity in 2011 going on to make 152 appearances in 2 spells including reaching the national league north play off final and the FA Trophy Semi Final v Wrexham

In September 2017 Jamie Yates signed for Current club Sheffield FC, he collaborates a playing role alongside being Assistant Manager to Ryan Cresswell.

Coaching career
In 2015 Yates was appointed head coach of Matlock Town youth system, which saw him develop and see several players go into the professional and semi professional game. In 2019 Yates left Matlock and was appointed player/coach of Sheffield FC, a role which involved working closely with the club's youth system in partnership with Leeds United.

In January 2022, Yates returned to his first club Rotherham United as football development officer, a role which involves being lead coach of the clubs development sides whilst continuing his position with Sheffield FC.

On 1 July 2022, he was appointed as assistant Manager of Sheffield after helping keep the club in the Northern Premier League East the previous season working with manager, Ryan Cresswell. On 1 May 2023 it was announced that Yates would sign a new contract alongside manager Cresswell until 2025 after a 9th-placed finish in the league table.

References

External links

English men's footballers
Footballers from Sheffield
1988 births
Living people
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Rotherham United F.C. players
Burton Albion F.C. players
Kettering Town F.C. players
Alfreton Town F.C. players
Boston United F.C. players
Gainsborough Trinity F.C. players
North Ferriby United A.F.C. players
Matlock Town F.C. players
Rotherham United F.C. non-playing staff
Leeds United F.C. non-playing staff
Men's association football midfielders