[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# To Catch a Thief (novel)

ffer to help him.

Francie thinks Robie's gang stole the jewels. She demands the return of the diamond dog, threatening to expose him. Robie plays for time. Robie thinks that perhaps Danielle, who is clever, and Claude, who is athletic, are behind the thefts. Bellini investigates, and clears Claude.

At the Souzas' cottage, Coco dismisses one of his crew, a quarrelsome Romani, and Robie joins him on watch. The next day, at the beach, he introduces Paul to Danielle. Later, Robie tells her about Lisa.

Francie again pressures Robie for the diamond dog, and he tells her the whole story; also, how he came to be Le Chat. His parents were circus acrobats, as was he. Orphaned when young, he came to Europe, was stranded, and took to burglary.

Two nights later, Robie spots a figure sneaking away from the Souza cottage. Then Detective Lepic shoots the man dead. It is the Romani, who tried to use Robie's Le Chat-style planning. This seems to exonerate Le Chat, but the stolen jewels are still missing. Robie is certain that the Romani was not athletic enough to be the hotel thief. The thief is still at large, and will strike again.

The target will be the Sanfords. The next weekend is their gala house party, and the guests will bring fabulous jewels. Francie wangles an invitation for "Burns". But Count Paul is also a guest. Paul demands that Robie leave, and won't listen to his explanation. Lepic and Oriol also arrive to protect the guests' jewels.

Robie abandons his disguise and lies in wait for the thief on the roof of the chateau. Late that night, he pursues the thief over the roof. The police are aroused, and Oriol demands Robie's surrender. Robie catches up with the thief, who is Danielle. Reflexively, he joins her in evading the police. They slip through the window of Paul's room. Paul hides them from Oriol, and now listens to Robie's story. Danielle too was a hungry young orphan acrobat. She deliberately mimicked the famous Le Chat, and never recognized "Burns" until they met on the roof.

Paul, who is in love with Danielle, asks her to marry him. He can pay what is required to save her freedom. But Robie has a better idea – since she still has the stolen jewels, Danielle and Bellini take the jewels to Paige, who tells Oriol and Lepic that the jewels have been returned and "Burns" was his company's agent. With the jewels restored and the Romani dead, the case is closed.

Robie can now return safely to Vence, where he has everything he wants – except, he now realizes, Francie Stevens. He finds her packing to leave for America.

Characters

 John Robie, an American living in Vence near the French Riviera; once a famous jewel thief, and then a Resistance fighter (maquisard), now retired.
 Count Paul du Pré de la Tour, Robie's wealthy, widowed neighbor and friend, living in Grasse.
 Commissaire Oriol, head of police in Vence.
 Bellini, ex-maquisard comrade of Robie, small businessman and fringe criminal in Cannes.
 Jean-Pierre, ex-maquisard comrade of Robie, and fence in Marseille.
 Coco, ex-maquisard comrade of Robie, and crook in Cannes.
 Le Borgne, ex-maquisard comrade of Robie, and crook in Cannes.
 The Romani, ex-maquisard, and burglar in Cannes.
 Michel, ex-maquisard and crook in Cannes.
 Mrs. Maude Stevens, wealthy, flamboyant American widow.
 Francie Stevens, her daughter.
 Danielle, an employee of Bellini's beach concession.
 Claude, swimming instructor at Bellini's beach concession.
 Mr. Paige, representative of the British company which insured most of the jewels.
 Commissaire divisionnaire Lepic, sent down from Paris.
 Mr. and Mrs. Sanford, wealthy American residents of Cannes.
 Senhor and Senhora Souza, wealthy Brazilian residents of Cannes.

Adaptations
In 1955, the novel was made into a film by Alfred Hitchcock, starring Cary Grant and Grace Kelly.

In 1963, the premise of a jewel thief who must come out of retirement was adapted in the caper-comedy, The Pink Panther.

Episode 10 of Season 10 of the TV series Bones (December 11, 2014), "The 200 in the 10th", is a free adaptation of the novel, with the show characters appearing as in a movie set in the 1950s.

In 2011, the novel was dramatized as a Saturday Play, which was broadcast on 8 January on BBC Radio 4.

Publication history

Editions

New York: Random House, 1952. 248 pp. [1st ed.]
New York: Dell Publishing Company, 1953 (Dell 658). 224 pp.
London: Michael Joseph, 1953. [1st UK ed.]
Harmondsworth, Middlesex: Penguin Books, 1955 (Penguin 1053). 215, [1] pp.
London: White Lion Publishers Limited, 1972. 215, [1] pp. 
London; Melbourne: J.M. Dent & Sons, 1988 (Mastercrime). 200 pp. 
Eugene, OR: Bruin Books, 2010 (Bruin Crimeworks). ix, 281 pp.