[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jerome A. Cohen

ter Chen escaped from house arrest in 2012. After a series of negotiations between the U.S. and Chinese governments, Chen was allowed to travel to the U.S. and become a fellow at New York University.

Cohen also serves on the Board of Directors for the U.S. Committee for Human Rights in North Korea.

Taiwan
Cohen's influence has been particularly strong in Taiwan where his former student, Ma Ying-jeou (馬英九) was president from 2008 to 2016.

In 1985, Cohen played a key role in securing the release of political prisoner Annette Lu (呂秀蓮) who had been a student of Cohen's at Harvard and who would later become vice-president of Taiwan.  Cohen asked his former student Ma Yingjeou who was now secretary to the Republic of China's President Chiang Ching-kuo to intervene. Lu had been sentenced to 12 years in prison for her role in the Kaohsiung Incident. A week after Cohen arrived in Taiwan, Lu was freed. Ma has never commented on his role in Lu's release but Cohen is grateful. 

Also in 1985, following the murder in California of Henry Liu, a Taiwanese-American author critical of the martial law government, Cohen served as a pro-bono representative of Liu's widow at the trial in Taipei. On appeal of what he thought was a show trial convicting reputed gangsters, he sought to show that the government was directly involved in the plot. The sentences were upheld, and later, Taiwan's chief of military intelligence was also convicted for his involvement.

Korea
In 1972, Cohen became the first American academic to visit North Korea.

In South Korea, Cohen was able to intervene in the kidnapping of Kim Dae-jung (김대중), who would later become president and receive the Nobel Peace Prize. In August, 1973, Cohen received an urgent call from Kim's aide, telling him that Kim had been kidnapped by Korean intelligence officials in Tokyo and imploring Cohen to request Henry Kissinger's help. Cohen did and Kim's life was saved, although Kim later reported that he had been bound and blindfolded aboard a boat with weights tied to his wrists, before the execution was suddenly called off.

Works
Cohen's writings regularly appear in Hong Kong's English daily South China Morning Post.

 "The Struggle for Autonomy of Beijing's Public Interest Lawyers," China Rights Forum, 2009, no. 1.
 Investment Law and Practice in Vietnam (Longman, 1990)
 Contract Law of the People's Republic of China (Longman, 1988) (with Yvonne Y.F. Chan and Ho Yuk Ming)
 People's China and International Law (Princeton University Press, 1974) (with H.D. Chiu)
 The Criminal Process in the People's Republic of China, 1949–63: An Introduction (Harvard University Press, 1968)

See also
 Derk Bodde (1909–2003): U.S. scholar of ancient Chinese law and society
 List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States (Chief Justice)
 List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States (Seat 2)
 William P. Alford: current Harvard Law School scholar of Chinese law
Institutes studying Chinese Law
Chinese law

References

External links
 Cohen's profile at NYU Law school
 Bibliography of Cohen's work
 NYU's US-ASIA Law Institute directed by Cohen and publishing his recent work
Jerome A. Cohen:  三十而立：1960年的我是如何投身中 国研究的How I started to study China in 1960, Financial Times (Chinese version),2017-03-02

1930 births
Yale Law School alumni
American legal scholars
American sinologists
Law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States
Scholars of Chinese law
Linden High School (New Jersey) alumni
Living people 
New York University School of Law faculty
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison people
People from Elizabeth, New Jersey
People from Linden, New Jersey