[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jefferson County Schools (Alabama)

The Jefferson County School System is the second-largest public school system in Alabama, United States. It is the third oldest school system in Jefferson County preceded only by the Birmingham and Bessemer School Systems.  The Jefferson County School System was created in 1896, and initially served all unincorporated communities and cities in the county other than Birmingham and Bessemer.   Beginning in the late 1960s and early 1970s various other cities began to establish their own separate systems (i.e., Homewood, Midfield, Vestavia Hills, Hoover, etc.). Today the County system serves students in those unincorporated areas of Jefferson County, Alabama such as Alliance, Bagley, Concord, Corner, Forestdale, McCalla, Minor, Mt. Olive, and Oak Grove.  It also includes students who reside in the cities of Adamsville, Clay, Fultondale, Gardendale, Graysville, Hueytown, Irondale, Kimberly, Morris, Pinson, Pleasant Grove, and Warrior among others.  Those cities listed below each have a city-based school system, therefore, their students do not attend schools in the Jefferson County School System:

 Bessemer (Bessemer Public Schools)   (established in 1887)
 Birmingham (Birmingham City Schools)   (established in 1874)
 Fairfield (Fairfield City Schools)  (established 1923?)
 Homewood (Homewood Public Schools) (established 1970)
 Hoover (Hoover City Schools) (established 1987)
 Leeds (Leeds City Schools) (established 2003)
 Midfield (Midfield City Schools) (established 1970)
 Mountain Brook (Mountain Brook School System) (established 1959)
 Tarrant (Tarrant City Schools) (established 1930)
 Trussville (Trussville City Schools) (established 2005)
 Vestavia Hills (Vestavia Hills School System) (established 1970)

Current Board Members, Responsibilities, and Election
The system is presided over by the elected Jefferson County Board of Education which is responsible for setting school policy, adoption of an annual operating budget, and broad issues usually dealt with by most school boards, such as construction of new schools, etc. The Board also relies on the guidance of the Superintendent in the making of many of those decisions.   the work of the Board is financed by appropriations from the Alabama Legislature and a series of property taxes some of which are "district wide" and some of which are "county wide" in nature, plus the proceeds of a 1 cent sales tax.

The Board consists of five members elected by Place Number in partisan elections for six year terms.  While these races are usually decided in the respective party primaries almost none of the work or decisions of the Board are of a partisan nature.  There is no limitation on the number of terms to which a member can be elected.  Four of the five members (Places 1-4) are elected only by the voters of the areas actually served by the school board.  The fifth member (Place 5) is elected collectively only by the voters of the 11 cities that have their own school systems.  This configuration is mandated by State law. When vacancies occur during a term the remaining members of the Board have the power to appoint someone to the post for the remainder of the unexpired term.  Two of the current members came to office in this manner when Ronnie Dixon was appointed to replace Dean Taylor, Jr. who died in office and Carita Venable replaced Jacqueline Smith who resigned. Officers of the board are elected for one-year terms from the five members.  The immediate past President of the Board is Oscar Mann.  The current President is Ronnie Dixon who was elected to the post in November, 2019.

The current Board members, their party affiliation, and the designated Place Number when they appear on the ballot are as follows:

(1) Dixon was appointed to the Board in May, 2016.
(2) Venable was appointed to the Board in February, 2019.

History
During the COVID-19 pandemic in Alabama, the school district required face masks for all of the 2020-2021 school year.

Past Board Members (Partial List)
Many different men and women have served on the Board over the years.  For most of the Board's history all its members were Democrats until the election of Republican Jim Hicks in 1980.  After Mr. Hicks election the Board transitioned to a Republican majority over the next few election cycles.  It has remained with a Republican majority ever since.  Three African-Americans have served on the Board including the present Board member, Carita Venable.  Previously, Martha Bouyer, and Jacqueline Smith served with Mrs. Smith being the first African-American to be elected as Board President. Below is a partial listing of past members: