[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gunnar Heinsohn

d the 14th century, respectively. As a result, Heinsohn concluded that they created a "phantom" history of two thousand years. In contrast, Heinsohn interpreted stratigraphic evidence to suggest that Egyptian and Mesopotamian civilizations arose around 1,200 BCE, not 3,200 BCE, as the textbooks say.

Heinsohn's ideas on ancient chronology were introduced to the English-speaking world in the Velikovskian journal Kronos in 1985.  They have found support with a small number of writers and academics, most of whom are favorably disposed towards Velikovsky; amongst whom are Professor of Philosophy Lynn E. Rose, Professor of Classics at Bard College William Mullen, Professor of Art History Lewis M. Greenberg, speech writer and long-time observer of the Velikovsky scene Clark Whelton, German author Heribert Illig, and British writer Emmet Sweeney. However, his views have been severely criticized by several students of Velikovsky-inspired ancient chronology revision: Aeon editor Dwardu Cardona, New Zealand researcher Lester Mitcham, University of New Orleans Professor of History William H. Stiebing, Jr., British researcher Anthony Rees and Aeon publisher Ev Cochrane.

In 2016, Heinsohn received the Liberty Award.

Main publications 
 Vorschulerziehung und Kapitalismus. Eine soziologische Untersuchung der Ursachen, systemverändernden Möglichkeiten und Verwirklichungsschwierigkeiten von Reformbestrebungen in der Vorschulerziehung des kapitalistischen Deutschland, Frankfurt 1971
 together with Rolf Knieper and Otto Steiger: Menschenproduktion. Allgemeine Bevölkerungstheorie der Neuzeit. Suhrkamp, 1979
 (ed.): Das Kibbutz-Modell. Bestandsaufnahme einer alternativen Wirtschafts- und Lebensform nach sieben Jahrzehnten. Suhrkamp,
 Privateigentum, Patriarchat, Geldwirtschaft, sozialtheoretische Rekonstruktion zur Antike. Suhrkamp, Frankfurt am Main 1984 (suhrkamp taschenbuch wissenschaft 455)
 together with Otto Steiger: Die Vernichtung der weisen Frauen. Beiträge zur Theorie und Geschichte von Bevölkerung und Kindheit. März, Herbsten 1985, 14th edition 2005
 together with  Heribert Illig: Wann lebten die Pharaonen? Archäologische und technologische Grundlagen für eine Neuschreibung der Geschichte Ägyptens und der übrigen Welt. Eichborn, Frankfurt 1990.
 The Rise of Blood Sacrifice and Priest-Kingship in Mesopotamia: A "Cosmic Decree'?', In Religion. A journal of religion and religions, vol. 22 (1992), p. 309–334
 Warum Auschwitz? Hitlers Plan und die Ratlosigkeit der Nachwelt. Rowohlt, 1995
 Eigentum, Zins und Geld. Ungelöste Rätsel der Wirtschaftswissenschaft. Rowohlt, 1996,
  Post-Genocidal Reconciliation in Rwanda: Are there Lessons from Germany?, Bremen 1997
 together with Otto Steiger: The Euro Debate: A Weak Bank Means a Weak Euro, in: The Wall Street Journal Europe, 1 July 1997
 Lexikon der Völkermorde. Rowohlt, 1998
 What Makes the Holocaust a Uniquely Unique Genocide? (PDF) In: 'Journal of Genocide Research' vol. 2,3 (2000), p. 411–430
 Genocide: Historical Aspects, in: International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, Elsevier Science, Amsterdam 2001, p. 6153–6159
 Söhne und Weltmacht. Terror im Aufstieg und Fall der Nationen. Orell Füssli, 2003
 together with Otto Steiger: Eigentumsökonomik. Metropolis, Marburg 2006
 Hitler's Motive for the Holocaust. In: Wolfgang Bialas, Lothar Fritze (eds.): Nazi Ideology and Ethics, Cambridge Scholars Publishing, Cambridge 2014, p  103–126
 Ownership Economics: On the Foundations of Interest, Money, Markets, Business Cycles and Economic Development, Routledge, 2013 (transl. of Eigentum, Zins und Geld'' by Frank Decker).

See also
Property premium

References

External links
 Raphael-Lemkin-Institute for Comparative Genocide Research at University of Bremen
 A Continent of Losers. Interview with Heinsohn by Lars Hedegaard. Covers Youth Bulge Theory in context with world demographic trends and European demographic decline
 Gunnar Heinsohn: Babies Win Wars
 Articles by Heinsohn available online (mostly in German)
 The Security Demographic: Population and Civil Conflict after the Cold War
 The "Youth Bulge" Anne Hendrixon criticizes Youth Bulge Theory

1943 births
2023 deaths
German anthropologists
Proponents of alternative chronologies
Free University of Berlin alumni
Academic staff of the University of Bremen
Reichsgau Danzig-West Prussia
People from Gdynia