[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Deltona massacre

Vega was bludgeoned and stabbed in the throat by Victorino in the master bedroom near his girlfriend, Michelle Ann Nathan, who hid in a closet until discovered by Hunter who bludgeoned and stabbed her to death.

Belanger's pet dachshund, George, was intentionally stomped to death during the attack.

Trial and sentencing
The month-long jury trial was moved from Volusia due to concerns that media coverage made a fair jury trial impossible, and was moved  to the Richard O. Watson Judicial Center in St. Augustine, Florida, after two years of preparation. The $1.5 million in legal defense fees were a 7th Circuit record.

The trial came to an end on August 2, 2006, when 7th Circuit Judge William Parsons sentenced Victorino and Hunter to death by lethal injection, and Cannon and Salas to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Victorino and Hunter were carrying out their sentences in one-person cells on death row at the Union Correctional Institution in Raiford, Florida. However, on June 14, 2017, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reported that Victorino and Hunter were to receive new sentencing hearings due to a state Supreme Court decision that requires unanimity of jurors in recommending death. Prosecutors decided to seek death sentences for the two men again and both Hunter and Victorino are awaiting resentencing.

Victorino was found guilty of first-degree murder of all six victims, abuse of a dead human body, armed burglary of a dwelling, and animal cruelty. At trial, he claimed he was drinking at a bar when the murders occurred. Victorino contended that the size-12 bloody boots presented at trial were his, someone must have stolen them from him before committing the murders.

Hunter was also found guilty of first-degree murder of all six victims, conspiring to commit aggravated battery, tampering with physical evidence, abuse of a dead human body, and armed burglary of a dwelling. He closed his eyes as the first "guilty" verdict was read, and stared straight ahead as he was further condemned to death. Hunter was at one point the youngest inmate on death row in Florida. A September 2008 appeal by Hunter was rejected.

Cannon pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six life terms without parole for the murders, life for armed burglary of a dwelling with a weapon, five years for conspiracy to commit aggravated battery, murder, armed burglary of a dwelling and tampering with physical evidence, 15 years each for five counts of abuse of a dead human body, and five years for cruelty to an animal.

Salas was found guilty of first-degree murder of all six victims, conspiring to commit aggravated battery, tampering with physical evidence, and armed burglary of a dwelling.

Victims
Belanger, Ayo-Roman, Nathan, and Vega were four friends who worked together at Burger King and rented the Telford Lane home. Gleason was not a resident at the home; Gonzalez was another co-worker who was spending the night. George was Belanger's pet dachshund.

Originally from Nashua, New Hampshire, Belanger moved to Deltona in 2004 to help take care of her grandmother's winter home. She met Troy Victorino in Deltona, Florida while she was working at a Burger King as a cook. Ayo-Roman, Belanger's new boyfriend and co-worker, grew up in Puerto Rico. He moved to Florida to finish school and obtain his nursing certification.

Vega, a painter and construction worker, moved to Florida from The Bronx, New York. He moved into the three-bedroom Telford Lane house two weeks prior to the slaying.

Nathan, Vega's girlfriend, said she wanted to marry Vega and was very excited about living on her own. Her parents considered her a princess, and she had a tattoo of a princess on her arm. After her death, her father got the same tattoo on his arm.

Tito Gonzalez moved from Inwood, Manhattan to Florida in 2004.

Gleason, originally from Deltona, was the only person living in the home who did not work at the Burger King; however, he had filled out an application. He spoke Spanish, Portuguese, and French, and was planning to volunteer at a medical clinic in Africa. People that personally knew him described him as a very intelligent, funny, loving guy who loved people, and often performed in plays, and even dabbled in dance.

Murderers

The attackers share two commonalities: a degree of mental illness and troubled, unstable upbringings.