[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

tration.

Syria 

The government of Syria operated a Dassault Falcon 900 in 2016. They also operate a Dassault Falcon 20E and a Dassault Falcon 50, which all use special Syrianair callsigns. President Bashar al-Assad used an Airbus A320 from Syrianair during a landmark trip to Saudi Arabia.

Tunisia

The government of Tunisia operates a Boeing 737 BBJ bought in 1999 and registered under TS-IOO. In 2008 former President Ben Ali tried to replace it with an Airbus A340-542 registered TS-KRT, but he only used it once before he sent it back to France to change the interior design. Ben Ali was ousted in the Tunisian Revolution in 2011 and the post-revolutionary government sought to get rid of the aircraft,  eventually selling it to the Turkish government in 2016. Whenever a plane is carrying the President, it uses the callsign "TUNIS1".

Turkey

The government of Turkey has a VIP fleet which is maintained by Turkish Airlines for and on behalf of the President of the Republic. Airplanes and helicopters use the state aircraft hangar at Ankara Esenboğa Airport as its main base, which was opened in 2013. The maintenance and parking operations of these aircraft and helicopters are performed here. The airplanes and helicopters are used for the domestic and international flights of the President, Vice Presidents, the Speaker of the Grand National Assembly and the Ministers. In 2016, there was a total of 2026 flight hours performed by 11 aircraft. In the same year, the three helicopters flew together for a total of 485 hours. Flight operations and catering services of the aircraft is done by the Turkish Airlines staff, while the maintenance of aircraft is done by Turkish Technic staff. The maintenance and flight operations of the helicopters are carried out by Presidential personnel.

The composition of the Turkish government fleet is shown in the table below.

The Airbus A340-500 was purchased from the Tunisian government after President Ben Ali, who ordered it to replace a Boeing BBJ, was ousted.

A heavily modified Boeing 747-8 was gifted to Turkey by the royal family of Qatar.

When the President of the Turkish Republic is on board any aircraft, the call-sign is "Turkish Republic One"/TRK1.

United Arab Emirates

The United Arab Emirates has seven constituent Emirates, each one with its own private jet fleet. The most notable fleets are maintained by the Dubai Royal Air Wing and Presidential Flight (UAE).

The Dubai Royal Air Wing has 10 aircraft ranging in size from a Boeing 737-700 to a Boeing 747-400, used by the Emir of Dubai as well as government officials.

Presidential Flight of the Abu Dhabi Emirate has 8 aircraft, the smallest being an Airbus A320-200 and the largest being a Boeing 787-9.

The Sharjah Royal Flight uses an Airbus A319 and Airbus A320.

The Fujairah Amiri flight has one aircraft, an Airbus A320.

The Boeing 777 in the fleet has also, in the past, been used by the Jordanian royal family for trips overseas; if this happens then any "UNITED ARAB EMIRATES" titles are removed from the fuselage of the plane to avoid confusion.

The planes use the callsign "Dubai" or "AUH".

Yemen

Yemenia operated a VIP-configured Boeing 747SP registered 7O-YMN for use by the government of Yemen. The aircraft carried the Yemenia Yemen Airways livery. In March 2015, the Boeing 747SP was damaged by gun fire during a militia attack at Aden airport, and a subsequent blaze destroyed the aircraft completely. In August 2016, the internationally recognized government bought a Boeing 757-200 registered 7O-VIP that previously operated as a VIP transport for Uzbekistan Airways with UK75700 as its registration. The 757 underwent refit and repaint in Yemen government's livery at GMF AeroAsia's maintenance facility at Soekarno-Hatta International Airport, Jakarta, prior to delivery to Yemen.

Any aircraft carrying the president uses the callsign "IYE1".

North America

Antigua and Barbuda 
The Prime Minister and the Government of Antigua and Barbuda flies on commercial aircraft for long-haul trips or uses a Britten-Norman BN-2 Islander (reg:ABDF-A1) operated by the Antigua and Barbuda Defence Force Air Wing for short-haul trips.

The Bahamas 
The government travels on turbo-prop and commercial aircraft.

Barbados 
The government travels on turbo-prop and commercial aircraft.

Belize 
The government travels on turbo-prop and commercial aircraft.

Canada