[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Apoptosis

ncoating, viral internalization, along with the replication of cells is necessary. Apoptosis in some viruses is activated by extracellular stimuli. However, studies have demonstrated that the OROV infection causes apoptosis to be activated through intracellular stimuli and involves the mitochondria.

Many viruses encode proteins that can inhibit apoptosis. Several viruses encode viral homologs of Bcl-2. These homologs can inhibit proapoptotic proteins such as BAX and BAK, which are essential for the activation of apoptosis. Examples of viral Bcl-2 proteins include the Epstein-Barr virus BHRF1 protein and the adenovirus E1B 19K protein. Some viruses express caspase inhibitors that inhibit caspase activity and an example is the CrmA protein of cowpox viruses. Whilst a number of viruses can block the effects of TNF and Fas. For example, the M-T2 protein of myxoma viruses can bind TNF preventing it from binding the TNF receptor and inducing a response. Furthermore, many viruses express p53 inhibitors that can bind p53 and inhibit its transcriptional transactivation activity. As a consequence, p53 cannot induce apoptosis, since it cannot induce the expression of proapoptotic proteins. The adenovirus E1B-55K protein and the hepatitis B virus HBx protein are examples of viral proteins that can perform such a function.

Viruses can remain intact from apoptosis in particular in the latter stages of infection. They can be exported in the apoptotic bodies that pinch off from the surface of the dying cell, and the fact that they are engulfed by phagocytes prevents the initiation of a host response. This favours the spread of the virus. Prions can cause apoptosis in neurons.

Plants
Programmed cell death in plants has a number of molecular similarities to that of animal apoptosis, but it also has differences, notable ones being the presence of a cell wall and the lack of an immune system that removes the pieces of the dead cell.  Instead of an immune response, the dying cell synthesizes substances to break itself down and places them in a vacuole that ruptures as the cell dies. Additionally, plants do not contain phagocytic cells, which are essential in the process of breaking down and removing apoptotic bodies. Whether this whole process resembles animal apoptosis closely enough to warrant using the name apoptosis (as opposed to the more general programmed cell death) is unclear.

Caspase-independent apoptosis
The characterization of the caspases allowed the development of caspase inhibitors, which can be used to determine whether a cellular process involves active caspases. Using these inhibitors it was discovered that cells can die while displaying a morphology similar to apoptosis without caspase activation. Later studies linked this phenomenon to the release of AIF (apoptosis-inducing factor) from the mitochondria and its translocation into the nucleus mediated by its NLS (nuclear localization signal). Inside the mitochondria, AIF is anchored to the inner membrane. In order to be released, the protein is cleaved by a calcium-dependent calpain protease.

See also 

 Anoikis
 Apaf-1
 Apo2.7
 Apoptotic DNA fragmentation
 Atromentin induces apoptosis in human leukemia U937 cells.
 Autolysis
 Autophagy
 Cisplatin
 Cytotoxicity
 Entosis
 Ferroptosis
 Homeostasis
 Immunology
 Necrobiosis
 Necrosis
 Necrotaxis
 Nemosis
 Mitotic catastrophe
 p53
 Paraptosis
 Pseudoapoptosis
 PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway

Explanatory footnotes

Citations

General bibliography

External links 

 Apoptosis & cell surface
 Apoptosis & Caspase 3, The Proteolysis Map – animation
 Apoptosis & Caspase 8, The Proteolysis Map – animation
 Apoptosis & Caspase 7, The Proteolysis Map – animation
 Apoptosis MiniCOPE Dictionary – list of apoptosis terms and acronyms
 Apoptosis (Programmed Cell Death) – The Virtual Library of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Cell Biology
 Apoptosis Research Portal
 Apoptosis Info Apoptosis protocols, articles, news, and recent publications.
 Database of proteins involved in apoptosis
 Apoptosis Video
 Apoptosis Video (WEHI on  YouTube )
 The Mechanisms of Apoptosis  Kimball's Biology Pages. Simple explanation of the mechanisms of apoptosis triggered by internal signals (bcl-2), along the caspase-9, caspase-3 and caspase-7 pathway; and by external signals (FAS and TNF), along the caspase 8 pathway. Accessed 25 March 2007.
 WikiPathways – Apoptosis pathway 
 "Finding Cancer's Self-Destruct Button". CR magazine (Spring 2007). Article on apoptosis and cancer.
 Xiaodong Wang's lecture: Introduction to Apoptosis 
 Robert Horvitz's Short Clip: Discovering Programmed Cell Death
 The Bcl-2 Database 
 DeathBase: a database of proteins involved in cell death, curated by experts
 European Cell Death Organization
 Apoptosis signaling pathway created by Cusabio

 
Cell signaling
Cellular senescence
Immunology
Medical aspects of death
Programmed cell death