[Source: PubMed]

36. Acta Chir Belg. 2025 Jun;125(3):125-131. doi: 10.1080/00015458.2020.1846943. 
Epub 2025 Apr 28.

Teaching humanitarian surgery: filling the gap between NGO needs and 
subspecialized surgery through a novel inter-university certificate.

Thoma M(1), Dominguez L(2), Ledecq M(3), Goolaerts JP(3), Moreels R(3), 
Nyaruhirira I(3), Brichant JF(3), Roumeguere T(4), Reding R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Abdominal Surgery and Transplantation, Cliniques universitaires 
Saint Luc, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Médecins Sans Frontières, Operations Centre, Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, CHU de Liège, Université de Liège, Liège, 
Belgium.
(4)Department of Urology, Hôpital Erasme, Université Libre de Bruxelles, 
Brussels, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Access to surgical care is a global health burden. A broad spectrum 
of surgical competences is required in the humanitarian context whereas current 
occidental surgical training is oriented towards subspecialties. We proposed to 
design a course addressing the specificities of surgery in the humanitarian 
setting and austere environment.
METHOD: The novelty of the course lies in the implication of academic medical 
doctors alongside surgeons working for humanitarian non-governmental 
organizations (NGO). The medical component of the National Defense participated 
regarding particular topics of war surgery. The course is aimed at trained 
surgeons and senior residents interested in participating in humanitarian 
missions.
RESULTS: The program includes theoretical teaching on surgical knowledge and 
skills applied to the austere context. The course also covers non-medical 
aspects of humanitarian action such as international humanitarian law, 
logistics, disaster management and psychological support. It comprises a 
large-scale mass casualty exercise and a practical skills lab on surgical 
techniques, ultrasonography and resuscitation. Attendance to the four teaching 
modules, ATLS certification and succeeding final examinations provide an 
interuniversity certificate. Thirty participants originating from 11 different 
countries joined the course. Various surgical backgrounds, training levels as 
well as humanitarian experience were represented. Feedback from the participants 
was solicited after each teaching module and remarks were applied to the 
following session. Overall participant evaluations of the first-course session 
are presented.
CONCLUSION: Teaching humanitarian surgery joining academic and field actors seem 
to allow filling the gap between high-income country surgical practice and the 
needs of the humanitarian context.

DOI: 10.1080/00015458.2020.1846943
PMID: 33334249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]