[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Wheat Field

h resides at the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, both in vivid complementary colors of yellow and blue-violet.  Both he considers harsh studies, but instead of being almost entirely yellow like The Reaper, the "picture is almost entirely violet. Broken violet and neutral tints."

Fall and winter, 1889

In September Van Gogh worked on Wheat Field behind Saint-Paul Hospital with a Reaper. Intending to paint a pure sulfur yellow, he wrote to Émile Bernard that he had taken up the "devil of a question of yellow". He explained to his brother Theo, "I see in this reaper – an undefined figure, struggling in the intense heat like the devil to finish his work – I see him as an image of death in the sense that the humans are the corn that is being cut down. So it is, if you will, the opposite of the sowing that I tried earlier. But this death is not sad, it takes place in bright light with a sun that covers everything with a light like pure gold."

Rain, also called Enclosed Wheat Field in the Rain, is unique to Van Gogh's work in the South. He represented falling rain by diagonal lines of paint.  The style is reminiscent of Japanese prints, but the effect is stylistically personal to Van Gogh.

In December Van Gogh made Wheat Field with a Rising Sun, held in a private collection. The work, started in late November, shows a sunrise above a field of young wheat in the complementary colors of yellow-green and purple. Deep furrows run towards the enclosed wall behind which is a row of purple hills. The sun is surrounded by a large yellow halo. Van Gogh sought to "express calmness, great peace". Further, he expresses "without making direct reference to the actual Gethsemane... and there is no need to portray figures from the Sermon on the Mount in order to express a comforting and gentle motif."  It was one of the six canvases he selected for the exhibit at Les Vingt [XX] in Brussels in 1890.

Wheat Field with Cypresses
The Wheat Field with Cypresses paintings were made when Van Gogh was able to leave the asylum. Van Gogh had a fondness for cypresses and wheat fields of which he wrote: "Only I have no news to tell you, for the days are all the same, I have no ideas, except to think that a field of wheat or a cypress well worth the trouble of looking at closeup."

In early July Van Gogh wrote to his brother Theo of a work he began in June, Wheat Field with Cypresses: "I have a canvas of cypresses with some ears of wheat, some poppies, a blue sky like a piece of Scotch plaid; the former painted with a thick impasto . . . and the wheat field in the sun, which represents the extreme heat, very thick too." Van Gogh who regarded this landscape as one of his "best" summer paintings made two additional oil paintings very similar in composition that fall.  One of the two is in a private collection.

London's National Gallery A Wheat Field, with Cypresses painting was made in September which author H.W. Janson describes: "the field is like a stormy sea; the trees spring flamelike from the ground; and the hills and clouds heave with the same surge of motion.  Every stroke stands out boldly in a long ribbon of strong, unmixed color."

There is also another version of Wheat Fields with Cypresses made in September with a blue-green sky, reportedly held at the Tate Gallery in London (F743).

Other wheat field paintings
Van Gogh describes the ripening Green Wheat Field with Cypress painted in June: "a field of wheat turning yellow, surrounded by blackberry bushes and green shrubs. At the end of the field there is a little house with a tall somber cypress which stands out against the far-off hills with their violet-like and bluish tones, and against a sky the color of forget-me-nots with pink streaks, whose pure hues form a contrast with the scorched ears, which are already heavy, and have the warm tones of a bread crust."

In October van Gogh made Enclosed Wheat Field with Ploughman.

Wheat Fields in a Mountainous Landscape, also titled Meadow in the Mountains was painted in late November - early December 1889.

In November, Wheat Field Behind Saint-Paul was painted by Van Gogh, now owned by Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.

See also
 List of works by Vincent van Gogh

References

Further reading
 Leighton, J., Reeve, A., Roy, A., White, R. ‘Vincent Van Gogh’s “A Cornfield, with Cypresses”‘. National Gallery Technical Bulletin Vol 11, pp 42–59.
 Jirat-Wasiutyński, V. Vincent van Gogh’s Paintings of Olive Trees and Cypresses from St.-Rémy. The Art Bulletin, 75(4), 1993, 647–670
 Vincent Van Gogh, Wheatfield with Cypresses, Colourlex

Paintings by Vincent van Gogh
Paintings of Saint-Rémy-de-Provence by Vincent van Gogh
Series of paintings by Vincent van Gogh
1889 paintings
1890 paintings
Collections of the Kröller-Müller Museum
Farming in art
Sun in art