[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Spanish Christmas Lottery

who draw the higher prizes are applauded. Apart from the prizes drawn from the vessel, some prizes are calculated from the winning numbers (view the table with prizes above). Once the grand prize (El Gordo) is declared, this number is instantly broadcast on television, online and on public screens.

The two-vessels system was the traditional system used by Lotería Nacional in its draws, but nowadays it is only used in the special Christmas draw. Since 1965 the rest of the ordinary and special Lotería Nacional draws use five spherical cages with ten balls each (numbered 0 to 9), from where the five digits of the winning numbers are drawn.

The smallest prize is the reintegro, tickets that end with a certain digit get the money back. That means ten per cent of all tickets get the money back. There is a 5.3% chance of winning higher prizes meaning more than ten per cent of all tickets win some prize which is a significantly higher winning rate than most other lotteries. The prize structure makes it easier to win some money compared to other lotteries, and it is common saying that the prizes of the Christmas Lottery are well distributed all around Spain. Chances of winning El Gordo are 1 in 100,000, that is 0.001%, while chances of winning the top prize of EuroMillions are 1 in 139,838,160 or 0.00000072%, and chances of winning the top prize of Mega Millions are 1 in 302,575,350 or 0.00000000330496189%.

Non-winners are known to claim "it's health that really matters" after losing. Those who get their money back often re-invest it in a ticket for Sorteo Extraordinario de El Niño, the second most important Lotería Nacional draw, held every January 6, the Epiphany of Jesus day.

El Gordo
The climax of the drawing is the moment when El Gordo is drawn. Lottery outlets usually only sell tickets for one or two numbers, so the winners of the largest prizes often live in the same town or area or work for the same company. In 2011, El Gordo was sold entirely in Grañén, Huesca, a town with about 2,000 people. In 2010, €414 million from the first prize were sold in Barcelona, and the rest of the €585 million of El Gordo was distributed between Madrid, Tenerife, Alicante, Palencia, Zaragoza, Cáceres, and Guipúzcoa. In 2006, the winning number was sold in eight different lottery outlets across Spain, while the second prize number (€100,000 per décimo) was only ever sold from a kiosk on the Puerta del Sol in central Madrid. In 2005, the winning number was sold in the town of Vic in Catalonia (population 37,825), whose inhabitants shared about €500 million (€300,000 per winning décimo). The moment is aired live on La 1 and RNE, as well as on sister channels TVE Internacional and 24 Horas, and the resulting combination and winning price are shown on all lottery outlets following.

As a misconception in many non-Spanish speaking countries, it is often assumed that the term El Gordo is specific for the Christmas Lottery; some even think that El Gordo is in fact the name of the lottery. However, the real meaning of El Gordo is simply "the first prize" (literally "the fat one" or more accurately "the big one"); other lotteries have their Gordo as well. To add to the confusion, there is a relatively new weekly Spanish lottery game called El Gordo de la Primitiva, which has nothing in common with the Christmas lottery, except the fact that it is organized by the Spanish public lottery entity Loterías y Apuestas del Estado.

References

External links 
 Loterías y Apuestas del Estado official page
 Rural Spanish housewife clubs win "El Gordo" lottery Reuters. December 22, 2011.

Lotteries in Spain
Culture of Spain
Christmas events and celebrations
Christmas in Spain