[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# William Gaston (Massachusetts politician)

William Gaston (October 3, 1820 – January 19, 1894) was a lawyer and politician from Massachusetts.  A Democrat, he was the first member of that party to serve as Governor of Massachusetts (1875–1876) after the American Civil War.  He was a successful trial lawyer and politically conservative Democrat, who won election as governor after his opponent, Thomas Talbot, vetoed legislation to relax alcohol controls.

Born in Connecticut, Gaston was educated at Brown University, where he helped establish the second chapter of Delta Phi in 1838. Gaston launched a successful law practice in Roxbury before becoming involved in local politics.  In the 1860s, he served as mayor of Roxbury, and afterward promoted its annexation to Boston (completed in 1868).  He then later served as Boston mayor, during a period which included the Great Boston Fire of 1872.

Early years
Gaston was born on October 3, 1820, in Killingly, Connecticut.  His father, Alexander Gaston, was a merchant of French Huguenot descent, and his mother, Kezia Arnold Gaston, was from an old Rhode Island family.  He received his primary education at Brooklyn, Connecticut, and was prepared for college in the academy at Plainfield. He entered Brown University at the age of fifteen, and graduated in 1840 with high honors.

Gaston then moved to Roxbury, Massachusetts (then independent of neighboring Boston), where his parents had taken up residence, to pursue the study of law.  He first studied with Francis Hillard, and then with Benjamin Curtis, later a justice of the United States Supreme Court.  He was admitted to the Massachusetts Bar in 1844, and opened his own practice in Roxbury in 1846.  The practice flourished, and he soon became a leading trial lawyer in Norfolk and Suffolk Counties.

In 1852, Gaston married Louisa Augusta Beecher. They were the parents of three children, including William A. Gaston, who joined his law firm, and also became a leader in the Democratic party, losing at runs for the governorship in 1902 and 1903.

Roxbury and Boston politics
Gaston became involved in Roxbury city politics not long after settling there.  He was elected to its common council from 1849 to 1853, serving as council president the last two years.  He represented the city in the state legislature (1853–54) as a Whig, and was swept out of office in the 1854 Know Nothing landslide that destroyed the Whig Party.  His opposition to the Know Nothing cause gained him support in the city's Irish American community, and he was once again elected to the legislature as a Democrat in 1856.  He was also appointed Roxbury's solicitor in 1856, a post he held until 1860.

In 1860, Gaston ran successfully for mayor of Roxbury, and won election again the following year.  His moderate and fiscal conservative policies were popular, drawing Republican voters to his camp.  He supported the Union cause during the American Civil War, raising troops at home and visiting them in the field.  He resumed the private practice of law after his second term.

During the 1860s the annexation of Roxbury to Boston was discussed, and Gaston, who supported the idea, was appointed to the Roxbury commission that evaluated the idea in 1867.  He ran unsuccessfully for a seat in the United States Congress in 1870. Later that year he was elected Mayor of Boston, going on to serve two one-year terms. The most notable event of his tenure as mayor, the Great Boston Fire of 1872, occurred late in the second term.  The fire destroyed a large swath of the commercial district of the city, and Gaston was criticized for failing to show decisive leadership during attempts to bring the fire under control.  This weak showing, combined with a poor response to a smallpox epidemic in the city, contributed to his loss in a bid for a third term.

Governor of Massachusetts