[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative

erchant mariner credential indicating U.S. citizenship
 NEXUS card indicating U.S. or Canadian citizenship (only to or from Canadian airports)
 U.S. government-issued transportation letter or boarding foil (for entry only)
 Foreign emergency travel document or U.S. removal order (for departure only)

For entry by land or sea from the Americas, travelers must present one of the documents acceptable for entry by air or one of the following:

 U.S. passport card
 NEXUS, SENTRI, FAST or Global Entry card indicating U.S. or Canadian citizenship
 U.S. or Canadian enhanced driver's license
 Enhanced tribal card, Native American photo identification card, or Canadian Indian status card
 U.S. or Canadian birth certificate, U.S. Consular Report of Birth Abroad, U.S. naturalization certificate or Canadian citizenship certificate, only for children under age 16, or under age 19 in a supervised group
 Government-issued photo identification along with U.S. birth certificate, Consular Report of Birth Abroad or naturalization certificate, only for travel by cruise ship returning to the same place of departure in the United States

Nationals of Mexico may use a Border Crossing Card, which serves as a visa when presented with a passport. Without a passport, the card on its own also allows entry by land or sea while remaining within 25 miles from the Mexico–United States border (up to 75 miles in Arizona and 55 miles in New Mexico) for a stay of up to 30 days.

Children born to a U.S. permanent resident mother during a temporary visit abroad do not need a passport or visa at the mother's first re-entry to the United States within two years after birth. Similarly, children born abroad to a parent with a U.S. immigrant visa after its issuance do not need a passport or visa if listed in the parent's passport with a birth certificate.

It is also possible for the U.S. Department of State to waive the passport requirement for a U.S. national in case of an emergency, for humanitarian reasons or national interest.

See also
Visa policy of the United States
Visa Waiver Program

References

External links
 

International travel documents
Borders of the United States
Visa policy of the United States
United States Department of Homeland Security
Canada–United States relations
Mexico–United States relations