[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dark Frontier

h themes as woman in Hollywood and as an evolution of the character Kathryn Janeway.

In 2015, WhatCulture ranked this the 26th best episode of all time in the Star Trek science fiction universe. They praised this for mixing action and character development on Seven of Nine's quest for her humanity.

In 2017, Netflix announced that "Dark Frontier" (1 & 2) was among the top ten most re-watched Star Trek episodes on their streaming service, excluding the first two episodes of each series (e.g. "Caretaker", "Encounter at Farpoint").

Juliette Harrisson writing for Den of Geek in 2017, gave actress Susanna Thompson as Borg Queen an honorable mention in a ranking of best guest stars on Star Trek: Voyager, for her role in this episode and "Unimatrix" (Parts I & II).

The Borg cubes are rated as the 2nd best spacecraft of Star Trek by Space.com in 2017. In 2015, ScreenRant rated the Borg Cube as the 2nd most deadly spacecraft of the Star Trek science fiction universe.

TV Guide named the Borg #4 in their 2013 list of the 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time. In 2009, IGN ranked the Borg Queen (one of the characters featured in this episode) as the 24th best character of all Star Trek to date.

SyFy recommend "Dark Frontier" for their Seven of Nine binge-watching guide.

In 2019, Nerdist suggested watching "Dark Frontier" as part of an abbreviated binge-watching guide featuring USS Voyager's confrontations with the Borg.

In 2020, SyFy Wire ranked "Dark Frontier" as one of the seven essential episodes about Borg to watch as background for Star Trek: Picard.

In 2020, CNET noted "Dark Frontier" as an exciting confrontation between Seven of Nine and the Borg.

In 2020, Tom's Guide listed this as one of the best episodes for the character Seven of Nine (Jeri Ryan).

In 2021, ScreenRant ranked "Dark Frontier" the eighth best episode with the Borg, based on an IMDB rating of 8.6 out 10.

In 2021, Comic Book Resources highlighted "Dark Fontier" for Seven of Nine (Jeri Ryan)  and noting it was one of the "fascinating Borg-centric entries" along with "Infinite Regress" in season 5.

Connections
Actress Susanna Thompson would reprise her role as the Borg Queen for the "Unimatrix Zero" double episode, in 2000.

Releases 
Both parts of this episode "Dark Frontier" was released on LaserDisc in Japan on June 22, 2001, as part of 5th Season vol.2, which included episodes from "Dark Frontier" to "Equinox, Part I".  The episode had two audio tracks, English and also Japanese. This set had 6 double sided 12" optical discs giving a total runtime of 552 minutes.

"Dark Frontier" was released on VHS cassette paired with "Unimatrix Zero, Part I".

Music for the episode was released on Compact Disc audio by Roldan Records.

On November 9, 2004, this episode was released as part of the season 5 DVD box set of Star Trek: Voyager. The box set includes 7 DVD optical discs with all the episodes in season 5 with some extra features, and episodes have a Dolby 5.1 Digital Audio track.

See also
Fort Knox (Captain Janeway used Fort Knox as a metaphor to explain the scale and the level of security around the transwarp coil they sought)

References

External links

 
 
 
 

1999 American television episodes
Television episodes written by Brannon Braga
Television episodes about cyborgs
Star Trek: Voyager (season 5) episodes
Star Trek: Voyager episodes in multiple parts
Emmy Award-winning episodes