[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ron Tschetter

Ronald A. Tschetter (born October 4, 1941) was the 17th Director of the Peace Corps.

Education and Peace Corps service
Tschetter earned a bachelor's degree from Bethel University in psychology and social studies. After college, he and some friends traveled and hitchhiked around Europe, Syria, Lebanon, Israel and Egypt.  He returned home and met and married his wife Nancy. "One day we saw this Peace Corps ad, and I said to Nancy, 'We're going to do this work stuff the rest of our lives. Let's go out and see if we can do some good,'" Tschetter says. Although the couple wanted to serve in Turkey, Iran, or Afghanistan, Tschetter and his wife were assigned to teach family-planning techniques in Maharashtra, India, beginning in 1966. "We lucked out. India was more different than any of them," says Tschetter. "Wow, what a country." Over the years the Tschetters have returned to India five times to visit their friends. Once as a Peace Corps volunteer, Tschetter traveled across India to deliver medicine to a village suffering from a smallpox epidemic. "Ultimately the village recovered," said Tschetter. "And today, smallpox is eradicated in the world and it is because of this and thousands of other experiences like it."

Career as investment executive
Tschetter began his career in 1970 as both a retail and institutional investment executive with Blyth Eastman Dillon Union Securities. He joined Dain Rauscher in 1973 as a broker and spent 28 years there primarily in management before he retired. In 2004 Tschetter was named President of D.A. Davidson & Co., a full-service investment firm based in the Northwest. Tschetter served on the Securities Industry Association Sales and Marketing Committee and the New York Stock Exchange Regional Firms Advisory Committee.

Peace Corps Director

The White House announced Tschetter's nomination on July 25, 2006, and Tschetter was confirmed as Director of the Peace Corps by the U.S. Senate on September 13, 2006, and was sworn in on September 26, 2006, becoming the third returned Peace Corps volunteer to serve as director and the first under a Republican administration. Tschetter had previously served on the National Peace Corps Association board from 1993 to 1999, as board chairman from 1995 to 1998 and as an honorary board member from 2000 to 2003.

In an interview with Drew Houff of the Winchester Star in March 2008, Tschetter said that representing the Peace Corps is an honor. "It’s the best job in Washington — I report directly to the president," Tschetter says. "It is bipartisan, apolitical, and supported by most everyone. It also is strongly recognized as a great brand. I tell the new volunteers, ‘You are working for the gold standard of volunteerism in the Peace Corps.’"

Promoting the Peace Corps
Tschetter says that his service as a volunteer was a life changing experience and for the past 40 years he and his wife have worked to convince others to make the same commitment. "When you do and are going through it, you just don’t realize how much it is going to impact your life," says Tschetter. "Your whole value system, your insight, perceptions are impacted as such that it really changes your outlook. It changes what you do, and it changes your desire to serve." Tschetter says that he almost always accepts invitations to talk about the Peace Corps especially at universities because it helps bring new volunteers into the program and helps people understand what the Peace Corps does. "When I get an invitation from a university, it gets my attention because I just know what this can do for a young person who decides to do it," Tschetter says. "I am here to encourage the students that this is an option in your life that you ought to give serious consideration."