[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ayla Brown

enges. She first became involved in Songs of Love in 2010 when she covered the organization in a piece she did for CBS' The Early Show. Brown wrote a song for Hannah Lowe, a six-year-old cancer patient who was featured in the piece, and has since also written a song for Collin Lecey.

Other projects

Brown has also tried her hand at musical theatre. After twice turning down offers to star as the narrator in the Reagle Players' production of the Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice musical Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, Brown finally accepted the role in 2008. From June 12–15 and 19–21, Brown starred in eight shows at the Robinson Theatre in Waltham, Massachusetts, alongside Broadway's Eric Kunze and a host of talented area actors. Of starring in the show, Brown told The Boston Globe she never got to do a musical in high school because she was focused on her basketball career, saying, "I've always wanted to do a musical, and I really regretted not doing one in high school. I was always interested, but basketball always took up all my time."

Brown received much praise for her acting debut, as TheaterMirror.com described her as being "beautiful and statuesque" and that she "has a fantastic soprano voice which soars in all her numbers including the Prologue, Poor Poor Joseph and Go, Go Joseph." The Daily News Tribune'' voiced similar praise: "It's hard to take your eyes off Brown in this show. She's a beautiful, tall, willowy girl who has an appealing stage presence and a lovely way of exchanging glances and flirtations with other characters on the set."

Brown sang "The Star-Spangled Banner" at the 2012 Republican National Convention. On December 15, 2015, she sang "God Bless America" before the undercard Republican debate and "The Star-Spangled Banner" before the primetime Republican debate

Discography

Albums

Singles

References

External links

Ayla Brown's Official Website

Current information on her basketball career

1988 births
American Idol participants
Basketball players from Massachusetts
Boston College Eagles women's basketball players
Living people
People from Wrentham, Massachusetts
Small forwards
American women's basketball players
Singers from Massachusetts
Massachusetts Republicans
Noble and Greenough School alumni
21st-century American women singers
21st-century American singers