[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Environmental crime

ossible imprisonment of corporate officers changed the face of environmental law enforcement. For example, between 1983 and 1990 the US Department of Justice secured $57,358,404.00 in criminal penalties and obtained sentences of imprisonment for 55% of defendants charged with environmental offences.

Many environmental agencies like the Alabama Department of Conservation and National Resources # Peace Officers, Alabama Wildlife and Freshwater Fisheries Division, State Park Peace Officers and Alaska Game and Fish, Alaska State Troopers, Arizona Game and Fish play important roles in reducing environmental damage and protecting the environment through environmental laws and regulations. These agencies operate at varying levels from international, regional, national, state to local level keeping one agency working at one level. Various enforcement methods are employed by these agencies to warrant compliance with environmental laws and regulations. In some case's enforcement agencies use what is called "Command and Control" which are traditional regulatory approaches. In other cases, they may use economic incentive and hybrid-based approaches, which there are two. Moreover, it has increased the need for cooperation between different policing institutions. Environmental law enforcement agencies and police services do not operate in a vacuum; the legislative instruments that political systems implement govern their activities and responsibilities within society. However, ostensibly it is the legislative instruments implemented by governments that determine many of the strategies utilised by police services in protecting the environment. Generally these International, Regional, National and State legislative instruments are designed to ensure industries, individuals, and governments comply with the various environmental obligations embedded in national statutes and laws. There are also international legal instruments and treaties that also affect the way that sovereign states deal with environmental issues .

Environmental criminology

Environmental criminology examines the notions of crimes, offences and injurious behaviours against the environment and starts to examine the role that societies including corporations, governments and communities play in generating environmental harms. Criminology is now starting to recognise the impact of humans on the environment and how law enforcement agencies and the judiciary measure harm to the environment and attribute sanctions to the offenders. Environmental crime does not only affect the land, water, air, it affects the health of children as well. According to an article published in Environmental Health Perspectives in 2016, "The evolution and expansion of children's environmental health protection over the past two decades has been remarkable. At the U.S. EPA, significant efforts have been made to address the special susceptibility of children, and our work continues to address emerging environmental concerns to ensure that children's environments are free of hazards and support healthy development."

See also 

:Category:Environmental crime
Construction | Construction waste
Ecocide
Ecotax
Environment Agency
Environmental Crime Prevention Program
Environmental Investigation Agency
Environmental issue
Environmental killings
Environmental law
Fossil fuel
Illegal logging
Joss paper
List of environmental lawsuits
Power tool
Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation
Scottish Environment Protection Agency
Wildlife Enforcement Monitoring System
Wildlife smuggling
Poaching

References

Further reading

External links

Interpol - environmental crime page
Environmental Crime-Havocscope Black Markets -Statistics and data on environmental crime
Wildlife Enforcement Monitoring System
Australian Institute of Criminology
Monitoring and Enforcement of Climate Policy

 
Crime by type