[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Battlefield 2142

sible to permanently acquire Northern Strike unlocks without purchasing the expansion, they can be chosen as Field Upgrades if the unlocks preceding them are unlocked, or can be used by picking up the equipment of a fallen soldier if that soldier had a Northern Strike unlock equipped when they died.

MapsNorthern Strike offers three new maps, Bridge at Remagen, Liberation of Leipzig, and Port Bavaria. The new maps, which are the only available maps for Assault Lines (excepting the Highway Tampa map, obtained through the 1.40 patch), are the only maps that spawn either of the new vehicles, and feature relatively large numbers of Battlewalkers but no tanks and little air support outside of Titan Mode, which is also available on the Port Bavaria and Bridge at Remagen maps. They also feature a new "Horizontal Pod Launcher" structure that functions similarly to the Pod Launchers found on the Titans (but with reduced range and a maximum time after the player gets in until the pod is automatically launched).

Assault Lines
Assault Lines mode is similar to Conquest, but with a couple of major differences.  Most asymmetrical Conquest maps feature the PAC as the attacking force with the EU defending, whereas Assault Lines reverses the roles.  In Assault Lines, the APCs on Port Bavaria and the Goliath are spawn points for troops, much like they are in Titan mode, however the Goliath may not be stolen by the other team.  Finally, the PAC home base cannot be captured until every other base on the map belongs to the EU team before they can begin claiming the base as their own.  Completion of this awards a pin to those playing as EU at the time, players who switch teams after the home base has been captured do not receive the pin. If the PAC successfully recaptures the base and controls at least one other point on the map then it becomes locked again while the EU can not lock this point even through controlling all other points on the map.

ReceptionNorthern Strike received "generally favorable reviews", albeit slightly less than the original Battlefield 2142'', according to Metacritic.

References

External links
Official Battlefield 2142 website via Internet Archive
Official Northern Strike website via Internet Archive
Battlefield 2142 Demo game via Archive

2006 video games
 04
Dystopian video games
Electronic Arts games
Science fiction shooter video games
Military science fiction video games
Multiplayer and single-player video games
Multiplayer online games
MacOS games
Post-apocalyptic video games
Science fiction video games
Video games about mecha
Video games developed in Sweden
Video games set in the 22nd century
Fiction set in the 2140s
Video games set in Belarus
Video games set in Egypt
Video games set in France
Video games set in Germany
Video games set in Gibraltar
Video games set in Hawaii
Video games set in Italy
Video games set in Kuwait
Video games set in Russia
Video games set in Serbia
Video games set in Tunisia
Video games set in Belgrade
War video games set in the United States
Video games set in the future
Video games with expansion packs
Windows games