[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hai-Genti

e, it can also erect a force field around its body and create a shockwave that pulses through the ground around it.
Titan - the largest and most powerful organism the Hai-Genti have. The Titan is a creature of colossal size. In fact, it is so big it must be called down from the Mothership among flame and smoke. Its sheer size enables it to crush its foes, and it also has a poison breath that burns the skin of its opponents.
Devourer - a four-armed biped organism twice the size of a human. It can attack by grabbing its foes in its powerful claws, then devouring them.

Inception Spores
The main hub for all Hai-Genti activities. When they first arrived on Earth, Mammon, Auriga and the Overseer had a discussion on their methods of how to take over Earth in the first Inception Spore. Mammon has the authority to call a new Inception Spore from the Mothership. The Inception Spores are always seen near a Biomass Farm, and are usually surrounded by Hai-Genti.

Biomass Farms
Built over Survivor Compounds, where humans have taken refuge, Biomass Compounds produce Bio-Thralls by mutating the humans it was built over and releasing them once transformed. Biomass Farms are always seen near an Inception Spore, and can mainly be expected to be surrounded by Bio-Thralls.

Giant Alienoid Worm
A special breed of Hai-Genti that live underground. While normally they cannot be beamed down from the Mothership, it is possible to summon them from their earthy home with a Progenitor. Once released, the great worm bursts from the ground in a spray of dirt and rock, attacking all who oppose it. However, its eyes are very weak from living under the ground, and it soon burrows back down into the welcome darkness, giving the enemy a final attack by spraying them with acid slime.

Eggs
The objects which all Hai-Genti life forms hatch from. Eggs are beamed down from the Mothership, where the contents of the egg is then released to serve the Overseer. The larger the creature, the larger the egg must be. This explains why the Titan is released as it is: no egg could contain its massive body.

External links
http://uk.pc.ign.com/articles/717/717248p1.html
http://uk.pc.ign.com/articles/726/726613p1.html

Fictional extraterrestrial life forms
Fiction set around Proxima Centauri