[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Norman Naimark

Norman M. Naimark (; born 1944, New York City) is an American historian. He is the Robert and Florence McDonnell Professor of Eastern European Studies at Stanford University, and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution. He writes on modern Eastern European history, genocide, and ethnic cleansing in the region.

Career 
Naimark received all of his degrees at Stanford. He taught at Boston University, and was a fellow at Harvard University's Russian Research Center before returning to Stanford as a member of the faculty in the 1980s. Naimark is of Jewish heritage; his parents were born in Galicia.

He is a member of the editorial boards of a number of professional journals, including The American Historical Review and. The Journal of Contemporary History.

He was awarded the Officers Cross of the Order of Merit by Germany.

He may be best-known for his acclaimed study, The Russians In Germany. He wrote in a 2017 essay that genocide is often tied to war, dehumanization, and/or economic resentment. He writes, "if there weren’t other very good reasons to prevent war, the correlation between war and genocide is a good one".

Views on social groups and genocide 

Throughout his more recent works, Naimark argues that crimes, whereby there is an intent to destroy social and political groups, ought to be deemed ‘genocide’. This notion goes against the 1948 Genocide Convention which specifically excludes  political and social groups as potential victims. Naimark’s argument in his 2010 work Stalin’s Genocides is that the “world needs a much broader definition of genocide that includes nations killing social classes and political groups.“ 

Naimark argues that the Soviet government’s elimination of a socioeconomic class, namely the kulaks (higher-income farmers), the famine among Ukrainian peasants (known as the Holodomor) and the  1937 Soviet government order that called for the mass execution and exile of people deemed socially harmful elements or “enemies of the people” constitute genocide due to, among other factors, the intent of extermination that underpinned them. Naimark points to the fact that, as he claims, early drafts of the UN Genocide Convention contained mentions of social and political groups, but the final draft omitted them at the request of the Soviet delegation.

Published works 

Books
 Stalin and the Fate of Europe: The Postwar Struggle for Sovereignty. (Harvard University Press, 2019).
 Genocide: A World History. Oxford University Press, 2017.
 A Question of Genocide: Armenians and Turks at the End of the Ottoman Empire. Oxford University Press, 2011 (Paperback ed. 2012, ). (Editor, together with Ronald Grigor Suny and Fatma Müge Göçek) 
 Stalin's Genocides (Princeton University Press, 2010).
 Fires Of Hatred: Ethnic Cleansing In 20th Century Europe (Harvard, 2001)
 The Russians In Germany: The History Of The Soviet Zone Of Occupation, 1945–1949 (Harvard, 1995)
 Terrorists And Social Democrats: The Russian Revolutionary Movement Under Alexander III (Harvard, 1983)
 The History Of The "Proletariat": The Emergence Of Marxism In The Kingdom Of Poland, 1870–1887 (Columbia, 1979)

References

External links 

 Biography of Naimark from Stanford 
 HNet review of The Russians in Germany: A History of the Soviet Zone of Occupation, 1945-1949.
 Historians to reconsider Russian occupation of Eastern Europe 
 HNet review of Fires of Hatred: Ethnic Cleansing in Twentieth-Century Europe.
 Interview with Naimark on "New Books in History."
 Interview with Sean Patrick Hazlett on Through a Glass Darkly.
 American Academy in Berlin
 Norman M. Naimark: Stalin and Europe, 1945–1953  – Video of a lecture given at the Zentrum für Zeithistorische Forschung in Potsdam on April 14, 2011.

1944 births
21st-century American historians
21st-century American male writers
Living people
Stanford University alumni
Boston University faculty
Harvard Fellows
Stanford University Department of History faculty
Officers Crosses of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
Writers from New York (state)
American male non-fiction writers
Genocide studies scholars