[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gulval

memorating William Wingfield, MP, in the church. One of the vicars of Gulval, the Rev. William W. Wingfield, was vicar for a remarkable 72 years, from 1839 until his death in 1912. In 1873, during Wingfield's tenure, the churchyard was extended on the northern side and a row of elm planted.

Legends

Joseph of Arimathea
Within the bounds of the parish lies the disused Ding Dong mine, reputedly one of the oldest in Cornwall. Popular local legend claims that Joseph of Arimathea, a tin trader, visited the mine and brought a young Jesus to address the miners, although there is no evidence to support this. The Ding Dong mines have, according to tradition, been worked since Roman times but by the end of the 18th century it was disused. In 1814 it was reopened and worked until 1878. Attempts were made in 1912 and 1928 to reopen, but these failed.

Notable people
 Dudley Savage (20 March 1920 – 25 November 2008), theatre organist known for the long-running BBC radio request programme "As Prescribed", was born in Gulval.

Local government and village amenities
For purposes of local government Gulval is included in the civil parish of Penzance and has its own single member ward on Penzance town council. The principal local authority in the area is Cornwall Council. Elections to Cornwall Council are by way of a three-member Penzance electoral division.

Gulval is home to a post office and general store, a public house and a primary school that houses 144 pupils.

In 1931 the parish had a population of 1292. On 1 April 1934 the parish was abolished and merged with Penzance, Madron and Ludgvan.

Transport
The A30 runs to the south of Gulval Churchtown between Long Rock and Penzance. The main bus route through Gulval is number 16.

Penzance itself has more transport links, including a railway station.

Sport and recreation
Gulval has two football teams competing in the Trelawny League and two cricket teams competing in the Cornwall Cricket League. The Old Inn – a pub in Gulval Churchtown – was given to the Coldstream Guards Association in memory of Capt Michael Lempriere Bolitho and renamed "The Coldstreamer" (Capt Bolitho was killed on , a Royal Navy ship; her task was to crash through the boom at the entrance to Oran Harbour in Operation Torch on 8 November 1942).

The local community radio station is Coast FM (formerly Penwith Radio), which broadcasts on 96.5 and 97.2 FM.

Cornish wrestling
Cornish wrestling tournaments for prizes were held at the Mead Hall in Gulval.

John Roberts (1820-1892) known as "Johnnah" or "John-a" and was a famous champion heavyweight wrestler in the 1840s and 1850s, that more than once beat Gundry. After one such occasion, at the Penzance tournament, he was marched from one end of the town to the other accompanied by the mayor, several dignitaries and a band. He was subsequently the "quiet and unobtrusive" landlord of the "Old Inn" at Gulval for 30 years.

See also

 Listed buildings in Gulval

References

External links
 Cornwall Online Parish Clerks website
 Cornwall Record Office Online Catalogue for Gulval
 The history of the Count House of Ding Dong Mine

Former civil parishes in Cornwall
Penzance
Villages in Cornwall
Joseph of Arimathea