[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of South African slang words

(antelope) it refers to money (currency), although borrowed from the American term of the same meaning, coincidentally there are two types of bucks featured on the coins of the South African Rand (Springbok on the R1 and Kudu on the R2). Not to be confused with the "Bokke" (Springbokke/Springbucks).

 "chop/tjop" – it literally means a piece of meat ("pork chop" or "lamb chop") that you would often cook on a braai. If you can call someone a chop it means they are being silly or an acting like an idiot, "Don't be a chop". Calling someone a chop often does not mean any harm, it is a light and playful insult and this word is most commonly used in a friendly way between associates. It can also be meant in a teasing way, like "dont be silly".
 chop-chop – lit. means "quickly". Is used when a person has had something done, or wants to have something done in a short amount of time. Derived from the chopping of a knife.
 choty goty – beautiful girl
 chrisco – a party/disco where Christian music mainly features; a combination of the words "Christian" and "disco"
 Chwee chweereekeys – getting high
 koeldrank/cooldrink – refers to a soft drink
 dagga – most commonly used word for marijuana
 dice – not to be confused with the game of dice, it refers to a form of amateur motor-racing where 2 or more vehicles sprint to an impromptu Finish Line on public roads. Often considered to be a part of illegal street racing, dicing under the legal limit though is usually permitted, though still frowned upon.
 dik – lit. "thick". Can be a derogatory term for being overweight, similar to "dikgat", as well satiety (or the sensation of being full)
 dikbek – grumpy, in a huff (literally: "thick mouth" (pout)
 dikgat – lit. "fat-arsed". Derogatory term for overweight people, same as "vetgat"
 diedonnerin; diemoerin; diebliksemin – lit. extremely angry. From "donner", "moer" and "bliksem", all meaning to "hit/ strike (someone)".
 dinges – thingamabob, a whatzit or a whatchamacallit. Dutch – dinges.
 dof – stupid or slow to understand. "Are you dof?"
 Dog het gedog hy plant 'n veer en 'n hoender kom op – lit. "Thought thought it would plant a feather and then a chicken would come up". Used in retort when someone says they thought something was a good idea and it turned out not to be.
 doos – literally "box". Depending on context, the slang/derogatory version can mean prat, twat, idiot but most commonly understood as a translation of "arsehole" or "cunt", which in that case would be considered highly offensive.
 domkop – idiot (lit. dumbhead), same as German "Dummkopf" or Dutch "domkop"
 dom nool – emphasis of "stupid idiot"
 donner – to beat up. Same as "bliksem". Derived from "donder" (thunder, related to Thor).
 donnerse – lit. "damn thing". Often used in frustration with another person or thing: "Die donnerse ding wil nie werk nie." ("The damn thing doesn't wanna work").
 dop – alcohol, to drink alcohol, to fail a test. Originally refers to a tot (measure). The diminutive form "doppie" refers to a bottle cap.
 doss, dorse, dossing – sleep or nap
 draadsitter – lit. "fence sitter". Refers to someone who is uninterested in choosing a side in an argument and therefore remains neutral.
 draadtrek – lit. pull wire, to masturbate
 droëwors – (Afrikaans) dried boerewors, similar to biltong
 drol – lit. a turd (vulgar); also refers to an arsehole/idiot; a cigarette, with a singly sold cigarette called a 'los drol' ("loose cigarette") 
 dronkie – drunkard
 druk – to embrace or squeeze, hug (noun) "Gee my 'n drukkie," "Give me a hug"
 druk 'n drie, druk a drol, druk 'n vinger in jou hol – lit. "score a try, squeeze a turd and insert your finger into your anus". A crude but humorous way to say "go finger-fuck yourself"
 eh pappa! – lit. "whoa daddy!"
 eina! – ouch!
 eish! – Wow! What? Expression of surprise. Of Bantu origin.
 ek sê – "I say!" Used when making a statement.
 ent, entjie – cigarette, can also refer to the act of smoking a cigarette.
 flou – an unfunny (weak) joke (from the Afrikaans word for weak), can also refer to weak coffee or tea or weak alcoholic drink. A person that is weak.
 fok – Afrikaans for "fuck", can be used in most ways it is used in English. Fokken = fucking, gefok = fucked. Dutch – Fokken = breeding (animals).
 fokker – lit. "fucker".
 fokkoff  – lit. "fuckoff" (vulgar)
 fokkol – lit. "fuck-all". Literally means "absolutely nothing" (vulgar): Ek het fokkol geld ("I've got no money").
 fok voort – lit. to proceed in a single-minded direction regardless of obstacles. Derived from the phrase: Kyk Noord en Fok voort. (Look North, and go forth).
 fok weet – lit. "fuck knows". A response to an unanswerable question (vulgar).
 FPK  – flying poes klap, see poesklap
 ‘’gabba’’ - the section of anatomy between a man’s anus and scrotum. A combination of ‘gat’ and ‘ballas’: After cycling for five hours my gabba is a bit tender. Could also be used as a derogatory term to refer to a man.
 gat – lit. "hole". Also refers lit. to "a