[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Monarchy in Alberta

others in her family may bestow these honours in person: the Queen, when in the province in 2002, appointed Alberta citizens to the Royal Victorian Order and presented in Alberta, on her official Canadian birthday in 2005, the insignia of the Venerable Order of Saint John to new inductees.

History

Prince Edward (the future King Edward VIII) first toured Alberta in 1919, when he was hosted at the Bar-U Ranch by George Lane. The Prince ejoyed the province's rural life so much he purchased a  property nearby—outside Pekisko, High River—and named it E.P. Ranch (the initials a reversal of Prince Edward). There, he raised cattle, sheep, and horses imported from the Duchy of Cornwall. Though his father, King George V, did not approve of his son holding property in Canada—believing it would lead the other Dominions to expect the Prince to purchase land there, too—Edward held this ranch and stayed at it numerous times. One such occasion was in 1923, during which time Edward participated in typical ranch chores and dining with the hired hands on basic meals. Edward sold the ranch in 1962, a decade before his death.

A request was made by Premier Ralph Klein for the Queen of Canada to give royal assent to a bill in the Legislative Assembly of Alberta in May 2005. This request was turned down by the Office of the Governor General "for two reasons: such an unprecedented ceremony would hinder [the office's] ability to 'Canadianize' the Crown and the constitution specifically assigns to the Lieutenant-Governor the function of giving royal assent to provincial bills." That assertion, however, was contested by Professor and Senior Director of
Interdisciplinary Programs at the University of Alberta, Kenneth Munro.

Though Queen Elizabeth II did not tour any part of the province during her Golden Jubilee royal tour in 2002, the legislative assembly and government introduced a number of events and initiatives to mark the anniversary. More than 4,000 Albertans attended the Lieutenant Governor's Jubilee Levée on 23 June, where Lois Hole stated: "what we want to realize is how important the monarchy is to Canada and certainly to Alberta." Three years later, the Queen was in Alberta to mark the province's 100th anniversary of entry into Confederation, where she attended, along with an audience of 25,000, a kick-off concert at Commonwealth Stadium and addressed the legislative assembly, becoming the first reigning monarch to do so. At the same time, the Ministry of Learning encouraged teachers to focus education on the monarchy and to organize field trips for their students to see the Queen and her consort, or to watch the events on television.

In 2022, Alberta instituted a provincial Platinum Jubilee medal to mark Elizabeth II's seventy years on the Canadian throne; the first time in Canada's history that a royal occasion was commemorated on provincial medals.

See also
 Symbols of Alberta
 Monarchy

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 

Alberta, Monarchy in
Government of Alberta