[Source: PubMed]

42. Int J Emerg Med. 2023 Feb 3;16(1):5. doi: 10.1186/s12245-023-00481-5.

Penetrating gunshot wounds to the penis: a case report of combat patient injured 
in the war in Ukraine.

Golovko S(1), Gybalo R(2), Lurin I(3)(4), Taraban I(5), Kobirnichenko A(1), 
Ganiuk V(6), Gorobeiko M(7), Dinets A(8).

Author information:
(1)Urology Clinic of National Military Medical Clinical Centre, Main Military 
Clinical Hospital, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(2)Department of Surgery, National Military Medical Clinical Centre, Main 
Military Clinical Hospital, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(3)National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(4)State Institution of Science, Research and Practical Center of Preventive and 
Clinical Medicine, State Administrative Department, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(5)Department of Surgery #1, Kharkiv National Medical University, Kharkiv, 
Ukraine.
(6)Intensive Care Unit (For Surgical Patients), National Military Medical 
Clinical Centre, Main Military Clinical Hospital, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(7)Department of Surgery, Institute of Biology and Medicine, Taras Shevchenko 
National University of Kyiv, Demiїvska 13, Kyiv, 03039, Ukraine.
(8)Department of Surgery, Institute of Biology and Medicine, Taras Shevchenko 
National University of Kyiv, Demiїvska 13, Kyiv, 03039, Ukraine. 
andrii.dinets@knu.ua.

BACKGROUND: The current war in Ukraine is associated with frequent applications 
of multiple-launch rocket systems and cruise missiles as well as other various 
high-energy weapons to cause severe injuries in military personnel including 
abdomen wounds, vascular injury, and limb amputations as well as genitourinary 
trauma. The aim of this report is to demonstrate a case of successful penile 
salvage by restoring its function in a combat patient with gunshot genitourinary 
trauma in conditions of an interrupted supply of medical equipment.
CASE PRESENTATION: We describe a case of a 48-year-old male patient with a 
combined shrapnel gunshot wound to the penis with damage to the urethra and 
combined injury to the soft tissues of the left thigh. Several hours after the 
injury, the patient underwent primary surgical debridement of the left thigh, 
ligation of the great saphenous vein of the thigh, primary sutures on the penile 
urethra and navicular fossa, suturing of the rupture of the head and penis, 
drainage of the wound, catheterization of the bladder, and epicystostomy. An 
artificial erection was performed intraoperatively. The urethral catheter was 
removed 3 weeks after urethral suturing (May 4, 2022). The epicystostomy was 
removed 5 months after the injury (August 4, 2022) and 2 days after the 
restoration of spontaneous urination. At the follow-up of 7 months after the 
injury, the patient has normal urination with minor urinary dribbling, 
sufficient erection, and ejaculation.
CONCLUSIONS: We have shown that in a case of gunshot wounds to the penis and 
hanging part of the urethra, even in the presence of combined severe purulent 
lesions of non-urological localizations, it is possible to perform a primary 
reconstruction of urogenital injuries using a primary urethral suture and 
applying a negative pressure device. Findings from this case report shed new 
light on the management of penile gunshot injury in ongoing warfare as well as 
provide evidence of the possibility to perform adequate management for penile 
injury in conditions of limited medical resources, violation of international 
humanitarian law, and under frequent strikes of high-energy weapons.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12245-023-00481-5
PMCID: PMC9896691
PMID: 36737684

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.