[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Georgia–Russia relations

the military operations resumed. Shevardnadze denounced "reactionary forces" in Russia for encouraging the Abkhaz offensive. Yeltsin rejected Georgian charges of Russian interference in Georgia's internal affairs, but warned that Russia will take action if Russian lives and property are threatened.

On 17 December, 1992, the Georgian parliament blamed the Russian Federation for interfering in the Georgia's internal affairs. It noted that Russian troops took part in bombing of Sokhumi and its outskirts on 2 and 9 December. They have also dawned a helicopter of Georgian air forces on 5 October and Georgia's Su-25 on 13 October. Other facts concerning Russian involvement in the conflict were also mentioned. It was the first occasion when Georgia officially noted that Russian armed forces stationed in Abkhazia were involved in the conflict on the Abkhaz side and fought against the territorial integrity of Georgia.

On 2 November, Georgian units seized a Russian arms depot in southern Georgia. Russian parliament adopted a resolution on 25 December, 1992. It blamed Georgia for violating the terms of agreement concerning legal status of Russian armed forces on territory of Republic of Georgia. It recommended Russian president and government to impose sanctions on Georgia if Georgia failed to maintain security of Russian citizens and property of Russian Federation on the territory of Republic of Georgia.

During the battle of Gumista on 16 March 1993, Georgian side accused the Russian airforce of supporting the Abkhaz offensive. On 17 March Georgian parliament addressed the UN, European parliament, world parliaments and Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation. It demanded the withdrawal of Russian forces from Abkhazia and stated that Russia waged "an undeclared war" against Georgia. Russian side denied involvement in the conflict.

During the March 19 air raid on Sokhumi, Georgian forces succeeded in downing an SU-27 fighter-bomber. A UN military observer confirmed that the aircraft belonged to the Russian air forces. The Georgian side once again blamed Russia for aiding the Abkhaz. 

On April 1, Georgian Parliament adopted a resolution which openly blamed Russia in political facilitation of ethnic cleansing and genocide against Georgians.

On April 6-9, negotiations were held between Russia and Georgia. The topic of withdrawal of Russian armed forces from Abkhazia was discussed. 

On April 27, Georgian parliament adopting a new resolution. It emphasized the Russian involvement in the conflict on the Abkhaz side against the Republic of Georgia. It also blamed the Supreme Soviet of Russian Federation for adopting resolutions which violate Georgia's sovereignty. It stated that Russia was responsible for violation of the Moscow agreement and obstruction of the Sochi talks. It determined that Head of State Eduard Shevardnadze should have addressed the Russian president about withdrawal of Russian military units from Abkhazia. If Russia refused to withdraw its forces, the Georgian parliament would have proclaimed the area between the Gumista river and the Russian-Georgian border to be occupied by Russia. It called the Head of the State, Georgian Foreign Ministry and representatives in international organizations to take appropriate steps.

On May 14, Yeltsin and Shevardnadze met to negotiate a settlement in Abkhazia and sign a ceasefire agreement. Georgia and Russia agreed that all Russian military forces will withdraw from Georgia by the end of 1995. On May 20, a ceasefire agreement was signed in Moscow. 

On 27 July, a new ceasefire was signed in Sochi. The gradual demilitarization of the area should have taken place. A Russian-Georgian-Abkhaz control group should have been established to monitor the ceasefire. Georgian military forces began withdrawing from the conflict area on August 26.

On 16 September, the ceasefire was again violated and the battles resumed. The Abkhaz offensive aimed to capture Sokhumi. On 17 September, Georgian leadership met with Foreign Minister of Russia Pavel Grachev. He proposed two Russian divisions to enter Sokhumi to secure peace. Georgian side refused. 

Russia adopted a resolution about violation of the 27 July agreement. It said that if Abkhaz side once again failed to fulfill the terms of agreement, actions would have been taken against them in accordance with the international law and Russia would have suspended supply of energy to Abkhazia. Yet Russian armed forces helped the Abkhaz in their offensive.

On September 28, after Georgians lost control over the Sokhumi, Shevardnadze claimed that Russian military authorities masterminded the Abkhaz rebel attack on Sukhumi. He blamed anti-Yeltsin reactionary group in Russian establishment for fighting against Georgia. In a letter to the UN, Shevardnadze referred to Russia as "the evil empire".

After the war