[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ōtomo Sōrin

.

Conflict with Shimazu
In 1578, Sōrin came into conflict with the Shimazu family led by Shimazu Yoshihisa, the only major daimyō family remaining in control of significant portions of Kyūshū. Sōrin attacked Shimazu Takajo castle, but failed to capture the castle and lost at the Battle of Mimigawa.

In 1585, after Shimazu invasion of Chikuzen Province, Shimazu advanced and captured Iwaya Castle from Otomo's. Later, Sōrin along with the daimyō of the Ryūzōji clan, they appealed to Toyotomi Hideyoshi to aid in holding back the Shimazu, who were beginning to extend their influence over Ōtomo and Ryūzōji lands. Though at first unsuccessful in enlisting Hideyoshi's aid, eventually the Shimazu took up arms against the Ōtomo, Shimazu seize Toshimitsu Castle, Funai Castle and defeated Sōrin at Battle of Hetsugigawa in 1586.

In 1587, Hideyoshi began his Kyūshū Campaign, in which he overtook the entire island, with the help of the Ōtomo and other families which voluntarily entered his service.

Death
In 1587, Hideyoshi left Kyūshū, restoring the Ōtomo to their domains, taken from them by the Shimazu, and arranging a peace, with all three families officially subject to Hideyoshi and holding the domains, now officially Toyotomi lands, in trust. In June 1587, Ōtomo Sōrin died before this campaign was complete, and so it was his son, Ōtomo Yoshimune, who held the ancestral lands upon the defeat of the Shimazu.

Great Pillars of Ōtomo
Kamachi Akimori (1520-1578), He was known as a skilled commander in the battle and serve in all Ōtomo Sorin major campaigns. He died in the Battle of Mimigawa.
Takahashi Shigetane (1548-1586), He began his service beneath the Ōtomo of Bungo Province around this same initial time, with Ōtomo Sōrin as their leader and head. Eventually, Shigetane became the respective controller of the Takahashi clan.

Notable retainers
Tachibana Dōsetsu
Ōtomo Chikasada
Yoshioka Akioki
Tawara Chikataka
Yoshihiro Akimasa
Usuki Akisumi
Ichimata Akizane
Shiga Chikamori

See also
Tachibana Ginchiyo
Myorin

References

Citations

Bibliography
Frederic, Louis (2002). Japan Encyclopedia. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press.
Sansom, George (1961). A History of Japan: 1334–1615. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press.
Turnbull, Stephen (1998). The Samurai Sourcebook. London: Cassell & Co.

External links

Otomo family information

1530 births
1587 deaths
Daimyo
Samurai
Japanese Roman Catholics
Converts to Roman Catholicism from Buddhism