[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dru Onyx

rek Platinum lost to the GCW-NS champions the Hillbullies (Jeff Black and Cousin Eddie) on February 4, 2012 in Oshawa.

In 2011, Onyx received in invitation to train at WWE's developmental camp in Florida and wrestle at several of their house shows. He used his "Son of Abdullah" gimmick at the camp.

On January 30, 2015, Dru Onyx wrestled his first match for Ring of Honor in Dearborn, Michigan on the Winter Warriors Tour against The Romantic Touch

Soa Amin

Soa Amin is Onyx's other known gimmick, which he has wrestled as often throughout his career, switching back and forth between this alter ego and Dru Onyx since October 2003. He was originally billed as the son of Hardcore Legend Abdullah The Butcher (unrelated in real life, but has been endorsed by him), who used originated the gimmick. Like his father, Soa Amin is a violent, bloodthirsty, and mysterious as he rarely talks. His appearance is highlighted by his many different costumes, and horned tip wrestling boots. Amin's tends to be much more aggressive and weapon-friendly with variety of submissions then the Dru Onyx character. Amin's finisher is a cannonball into the turnbuckle. The Soa Amin's is the gimmick most fans in England & Ireland know Onyx for, as he wrestled as Soa Amin throughout the 2000s for the NWA promotions NWA Hammerlock & NWA Ireland.

Onyx in 2004 opened his opened his own professional wrestling school in Quebec called Torture Chamber Pro Wrestling Dojo.

Other media
In 2017 he appeared on Tele-Quebec’s show Cochon Dingue as himself. In 2016 he appeared in an episode of ALT for VRAK TV as himself.

2014-2015 Onyx worked on a French-Canadian sitcom produced by Radio Canada’s called La Theorie Du K.O. starring Remi-Pierre Paquin & Michel Cote, a comedy based on Paquin’s character losing his wife and is forced to become a professional wrestler to support his family. In the two seasons & twenty-five episodes. Onyx trained the actors in the art of professional wrestling, produced all the wrestling choreography, acquired pro wrestlers for the show, and was the onset coach throughout the series. Onyx also worked as a stunt double, doing the stunts and wrestling choreography for Kwasi Songui.

He released a CD titled Sinebriated in September 2004. It was released under his rap alter-ego R-Kade. Onyx began rapping when he was 16 and has collaborated with Bran Van 3000. In addition, he is the CEO of Clutch Records and is involved with a local talent agency.

Film

Championships and accomplishments
 All Canadian Wrestling
ACW Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Championship Wrestling Association
CWA Heavyweight Championship (2 times) 
Combat Revolution Wrestling 
CRW Quebec Championship (1 time)
CRW Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Bryan Kevins 
Federation Canadienne De Lutte 
FCL Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Dom Boulanger  
International Wrestling Syndicate
IWS World Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
IWS World Tag Team Championship (1 time) 
Jonquiere Championship Wrestling
 JCW Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Montreal Wrestling Federation
MWF National Championship (1 time)
MWF Regional Championship (1 time)
NWA Quebec Pro Wrestling
NWA Quebec Heavyweight Championship (2 times)
NWA UK Hammerlock
NWA British Commonwealth Heavyweight Championship (5 times, current)
NWA United Kingdom Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
National Wrestling Alliance
NWA Canadian Tag Team Championship (3 times) - with Jeremy Prophet (1 time) and Mike Marston (2 time, current)
NWA North American Heavyweight Championship (1 time) 
 Northern Championship Wrestling
NCW Quebec Championship (2 times)
NCW Inter- Cities Championship (1 times)
Top of the World Wrestling
TOW Tag Team Championship (3 times) - with Carl XL Leduc (1) and Eric Mastrocola (2)
Victory Ring
Victory Ring Championship (1 time, current)
 Pro Wrestling Illustrated
 PWI ranked him # 349 of the 500 best singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2012

Notes

Further reading

1974 births
Barbadian emigrants to Canada
Barbadian professional wrestlers
Canadian male professional wrestlers
Living people
Professional wrestlers from Quebec
People from Saint Michael, Barbados
NWA North American Heavyweight Champions