[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# France–Iran relations

r Mohsen Makhmalbaf resided in France during the run-off to the elections in 2009 and was spreading anti-government propaganda and promoting the Green velvet revolution.  Also, Iran accused the French embassy for having a role in instigating post election protest via its embassy personnel in Tehran.

In late August 2010, Iran's state-run daily paper Kayhan called France's first lady Carla Bruni-Sarkozy a 'prostitute' after she had condemned the stoning sentence against Sakineh Mohammadi Ashtiani for adultery in an open letter, along with several French celebrities. The paper later also called for Bruni to be put to death for supporting Sakineh Ashtiani, and for what the paper described as Bruni's moral corruption and having had extra-marital affairs herself. Even though Kayhan is a state-sponsored paper and it continued its tirade against Bruni along with other state-run Iranian media, Iranian officials tried to distance themselves from that violent stance, while a spokesman for the French Foreign Ministry criticized the comments as being 'unacceptable'.  The incident rapidly found its way into the Iranian domestic politics.

On 10 April 2019, Iran's president, Hassan Rouhani held a telephone conversation with French President Emmanuel Macron, discussing about how the labeling of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) as a terrorist organization in the United States Department of State list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations served as a very provocative action taken against Iran.

On May 12, 2022, France summoned a senior Iranian envoy after two of its citizens were imprisoned in Tehran in an arbitrary detention, according to the French government.

On July 15, 2022, the French foreign ministry announced that France had requested Iran to free three filmmakers who were detained earlier that month.

Cultural, scientific and technical relations
Cooperation relations are managed in the context of the general arrangement of 14 September 1993 and the cultural arrangement of 31 January 1999. Four priorities have been established:
The promotion of inter-university partnerships and advanced French training. France is the sixth-leading country in terms of hosting Iranian scholars. Actions supporting university cooperation conducted by the embassy in Tehran (welcoming and guiding students, improving language skills, providing networking opportunities with former scholars) are to be grouped together in a centre for university information and exchange.
Increased French instruction in Iran's secondary and higher education. Several public secondary schools in Iran offered French classes in Autumn 2003.
Borrowed words from French, and language similarities due to both being Indo-European languages.
The promotion of scientific partnerships (seismology, biology, environmental sciences, town planning, human and social sciences, veterinary medicine) in compliance with the rules of vigilance and with Iranian co-financing. A two-year integrated action programme (called “Gundishapur”) ended in July 2004.
Bidirectional development in cultural dialogue. The embassy provides volunteer translation and publication services and organizes cultural and scientific events. The French Research Institute in Iran is the only foreign research centre authorized to take part in disseminating information about Iranian culture.

Polls 
According to a 2012 BBC World Service poll, only 7% of French people viewed Iran's influence positively, with 82% expressing a negative view. According to a 2012 Pew Global Attitudes Survey, 14% of French people viewed Iran favorably, compared to 86% who viewed it unfavorably; 96% of French people opposed Iranian acquisition of nuclear weapons and 74% approved of "tougher sanctions" on Iran, while 51% supported use of military force to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons.

2016 
France's imports from Iran in the first nine months of 2016 showed a 34-fold rise compared to the corresponding period in 2015, Iran's state-run Tasnim News Agency reported on 10 December 2016.

Resident diplomatic missions
 France has an embassy in Tehran.
 Iran has an embassy in Paris.

See also 
 Foreign relations of France
 Foreign relations of Iran
 2011–12 Strait of Hormuz dispute
 Iranians in France
 Iran–EU relations
 Joseph Labrosse (Carmelite)

Notes

References
 Amini, Iradj (2000). Napoleon and Persia: Franco-Persian relations under the First Empire. Washington, D.C.: Taylor & Francis. .

External links
 
 French Foreign Ministry- France & Iran
 Iranian Foreign Ministry
 Persia and Napoleon - A Lecture by Ambassador Iradj Amini
 Farhad Sepahbody - Accounts of French-Iranian relations
 De Gaulle in Iran in 1963, part 1 part 2

 
Bilateral relations of Iran
Iran
Articles containing video clips