[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lumen Christi Catholic School

2022
Gymnastics (girls)
Ice hockey (boys)
State champs – 1977, 1978
Soccer (boys & girls)
Boys state champs – 2003 (tied)
Softball (girls)
Swim & dive (boys & girls)
Tennis (boys & girls)
Track and field (boys & girls)
Boys state champs – 2015
Volleyball (girls)
Wrestling (boys)

James Francis Rapp

In 2015, James Francis Rapp was charged by the Michigan Attorney General with 13 counts of criminal sexual conduct for crimes he committed while a priest, teacher, maintenance supervisor and wrestling coach at Lumen Christi from 1980 to 1986. At the time the Michigan charges were filed, Rapp was already serving a 40-year sentence for similar crimes in Oklahoma. Rapp pleaded no contest to 3 counts of first degree criminal sexual conduct and 3 counts of second degree criminal sexual conduct in return for the other charges being dropped. He was sentenced to an additional 20–40 years in prison by the Michigan court on top of the Oklahoma sentence. At the sentencing hearing, victims testified that they attempted to report the abuse at the time to Fr. Joseph Coyle, the original principal of the high school, but Coyle insisted that they do so in confession rather than in a formal hearing or office meeting. Coyle then admonished  them that what was said in confession could not be repeated and that they would "go to hell" if they did so.  Coyle did not report the abuse to authorities, but Rapp was quietly transferred. Rapp was sent to a month-long evaluation at the Saint Luke Institute, which concluded: 

Afterwards, he was transferred to other parishes, including the Oklahoma parish were he committed the later crimes. In the wake of the revelation of Coyle's complicity in Rapp's crimes, Coyle's name was removed from the fundraising charity for the school, the Fr. Coyle Society, out of consideration for Rapp's victims.

Notable alumni
Ryan LaMarre baseball player
Dominic Pangborn artist and graphic designer
Khari Willis football player

References

External links
 Official Lumen Christi Website
 Jackson Area Catholic Schools Website

Roman Catholic Diocese of Lansing
Catholic secondary schools in Michigan
Schools in Jackson County, Michigan
Educational institutions established in 1968
1968 establishments in Michigan
Catholic Church sexual abuse scandals