[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nick Rolovich

awaii wide receiver (2011–12). Drafted 163rd overall in the 2016 NFL Draft by the Green Bay Packers.
Joel Bitonio – Former offensive lineman for Nevada (2009–13). Drafted 35th overall in the 2014 NFL Draft by the Cleveland Browns. 2× Pro Bowl selection (2018, 2019), 2× 2nd Team All-Pro (2018, 2019).

As head coach 
Marcus Kemp – Former Hawaii wide receiver (2014–17). Signed by the Kansas City Chiefs as an undrafted free agent in 2017. Won Super Bowl LIV with Kansas City in 2020.
 Leo Koloamatangi – Former center for Hawaii. Signed by the Detroit Lions as an undrafted free agent in 2017. 
 Jahlani Tavai – Former linebacker for Hawaii (2014–18). Drafted 43rd overall in the 2019 NFL Draft by the Detroit Lions. 
 John Ursua – Former wide receiver for Hawaii (2016–18). Drafted 236th overall in the 2019 NFL Draft by the Seattle Seahawks.
 Cole McDonald – Former quarterback for Hawaii (2016–19). Drafted 224th overall in the 2020 NFL Draft by the Tennessee Titans.

Coaching style

Offensive philosophy
During his stint as offensive coordinator at Hawaii, Rolovich used the run and shoot offense that June Jones had run when Rolovich was the team's starting quarterback. As the offensive coordinator, he made adjustments to the offense so that it could be run out of the pistol formation, creating opportunities for the quarterback to be a second runner. This led to an increase in success in the running game. When he became the offensive coordinator at Nevada, he ran the pistol offense that longtime Nevada head coach Chris Ault had popularized. When he was named head coach at Hawaii, he was the de facto offensive coordinator with Brian Smith and Craig Stutzmann named running game coordinator and passing game coordinator for one season before naming Smith the offensive coordinator for the 2017 season. After running a balanced spread offense for the first two years, he switched back to the run and shoot. With the rise in popularity of the run-pass option (RPO), Rolovich once again made adjustments to the run and shoot offense so that the quarterback of the offense could run RPO plays.

Personality
Rolovich is known for his zany personality; he brought a tarot card reader, a Britney Spears impersonator, and an Elvis Presley impersonator to Mountain West Conference Media Days during his head coaching days at Hawaii. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Rolovich went around Washington State University's Pullman campus on a bicycle FaceTimeing a recruit with a phone taped to his bike helmet to show the recruit what Pullman and the campus looked like.

Personal life
Rolovich is married to Analea Donovan, his college sweetheart from Maui. They have four children.

Head coaching record

References

External links
 Hawaii profile
 AFL stats

1979 births
Living people
American football quarterbacks
City College of San Francisco Rams football players
Nevada Wolf Pack football coaches
Hawaii Rainbow Warriors football coaches
Washington State Cougars football coaches
Hawaii Rainbow Warriors football players
Denver Broncos players
Rhein Fire players
San Jose SaberCats players
Las Vegas Gladiators players
City College of San Francisco Rams football coaches
New Mexico Highlands University alumni
People from Daly City, California
Players of American football from San Mateo County, California
Marin Catholic High School alumni