[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Safety and Health in Mines Convention, 1995

good ventilation in all locations of the mine in which miners come in contact with. The Convention also requires that the working environment is monitored for hazards that can induce disease. Finally, article 5 requires that countries publish statistics on occupational disease (included black lung).

Issues with the Convention
The goal of the Convention is to create a standard that can be used for any ratifying nations to promote the health and safety of miners. It supports the notion for countries to create the proper agencies to regulate the safety and health of miner's and implement standards. However, many prominent mining countries have yet to ratify the Convention. In addition, many ratifying nations differ in the amount of effort put into the relevant agencies.

Currently there are five main developed countries that are prominent in the mining industry. Only two of these five have ratified the Convention (The United States and Germany). There are a number of developing nations that also largely partake in mining. Despite this, only a fraction have signed the Convention. China, the world's leading coal producer, has yet to ratify the Convention. China also has the most dangerous track record of miner's health and safety (based on number of fatalities).

Apart from the countries that haven't ratified it, the effectiveness of the Convention relies on the strictness of the government. The ratifying nations are ultimately responsible for creating the relevant agencies and enforcing the standards laid out in the Convention.

European Union strengthening of the Convention
In 2008, the European Commission released a Recommendation for all EU members to ratify recent conventions from the ILO, including Convention 176. Similar to the United States, many EU member States have laws already in place that would match or in some cases surpass the laws laid out in the Convention. However, the Recommendations laid out by the Commission did not just ask for the ratification of the various conventions. The Commission recognized the notion that governments can ratify, yet not enforce the Convention fully. Therefore, it asked for the conventions rules to be strengthened and made certain that a supervisory system was in place to monitor the effectiveness of the conventions enforcement. The Recommendation was released despite opposition from some EU nations claiming that the funding to the ILO should be lowered or in some cases dropped.

Ukrainian project related to the Convention 

The ILO project in Ukraine was implemented between 1 May 2017 and 31 March 2020. It aimed to increase mine safety and the health of miners by introducing and enhancing modern occupational safety and health (OSH) policies. Given its policy implications, the project has increased the social partners' awareness of the need to take steps to improve occupational safety, to prevent work accidents and the full implementation of health protection measures.

Ratifications

As of November 2022, 34 countries have ratified the convention.

External links 
Text.
Ratifications.

References

International Labour Organization conventions
Occupational safety and health treaties
Treaties entered into force in 1998
Treaties concluded in 1995
Treaties of Albania
Treaties of Armenia
Treaties of Austria
Treaties of Brazil
Treaties of Belgium
Treaties of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Treaties of Botswana
Treaties of the Czech Republic
Treaties of Finland
Treaties of Germany
Treaties of Ireland
Treaties of Lebanon
Treaties of Luxembourg
Treaties of Mongolia
Treaties of Morocco
Treaties of Norway
Treaties of Peru
Treaties of the Philippines
Treaties of Poland
Treaties of Portugal
Treaties of Russia
Treaties of Slovakia
Treaties of South Africa
Treaties of Spain
Treaties of Sweden
Treaties of Turkey
Treaties of Ukraine
Treaties of the United States
Treaties of Uruguay
Treaties of Zambia
Treaties of Zimbabwe
Mining treaties
Mine safety
1995 in labor relations