[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Edward S. Bragg

Edward Stuyvesant Bragg (February 20, 1827June 20, 1912) was an American politician, lawyer, soldier, and diplomat.  He was an accomplished Union Army officer in the American Civil War and served four terms in the United States House of Representatives representing Wisconsin.  Later, he was United States Minister to Mexico during the presidency of Grover Cleveland, and consul-general to the Republic of Cuba and British Hong Kong under President Theodore Roosevelt.

Early life and career
Bragg was born in Unadilla, New York, the son of Margarette (Kohl) and Joel B. Bragg.  Bragg attended district schools as a child. He then attended the local academy and Geneva College, today Hobart College, in Geneva, New York, where he was one of the charter members of the Kappa Alpha Society. He left college before graduating, in 1847, and studied law in the offices of Judge Charles C. Noble.  He was admitted to the New York State Bar Association in 1848, and worked as a junior partner with Judge Noble until 1850.

In 1850, he traveled west on a prospecting tour in Wisconsin, intending to settle near Green Bay.  On the road between Chicago and Green Bay, he recognized the name of a former schoolmate on a sign at Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, and decided to settle there.

Bragg quickly rose in prominence in Fond du Lac, associating himself with the Democratic Party.  He was elected district attorney of Fond du Lac in 1853 and was a delegate to the 1860 Democratic National Convention in Charleston, South Carolina, which nominated Stephen A. Douglas and Herschel V. Johnson for President and Vice President of the United States.

Civil War service
When word arrived of the attack on Fort Sumter, Bragg was engaged in a case at Oshkosh, Wisconsin, where he was acting as defense counsel for a woman who had been accused of murder.  He requested a recess and immediately returned to Fond du Lac.  That night he addressed an assembly in the city and an entire company of "three-month" volunteers was raised.  As Bragg went about arranging his personal affairs, the call came for another round of volunteers to enlist for three years service.  Bragg recruited another company and was chosen as their captain.  The company was referred to as "Bragg's Rifles" and would become Company E of the 6th Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry Regiment.

The 6th Wisconsin was organized at Camp Randall in Madison, Wisconsin, and mustered into service July 16, 1861, under Colonel Lysander Cutler.  They were ordered to proceed to Washington, D.C., for service in the eastern theater of the war.  Once at Washington, they were organized into the Brigade of General Rufus King.  They were soon joined by the 2nd Wisconsin, 7th Wisconsin, and 19th Indiana regiments in what would become known as the Iron Brigade of the Army of the Potomac.  From this point to the end of the war, Bragg participated in nearly every battle of the Iron Brigade.

Washington (Fall 1861Spring 1862)
The 6th Wisconsin spent the Fall of 1861 and Spring of 1862 on picket duty near Washington, building fortifications and drilling in preparation for combat.  During this time, Bragg was promoted to major, on September 17, 1861, and then to lieutenant colonel, on June 21, 1862, after Lt. Colonel Benjamin Sweet was commissioned colonel of the new 21st Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry Regiment.

Northern Virginia (Summer 1862)
In April 1862, the Iron Brigade marched south and camped at Falmouth, Virginia, on the Rappahannock River, across from Fredericksburg, Virginia, where they remained through most of the Peninsula campaign.  In June, they were briefly put on alert to prepare to reinforce General George B. McClellan, but ultimately did not participate.

In July, after General John Pope replaced McClellan in overall command of the Union Army, the Iron Brigade was assigned to participate in raids against Confederate infrastructure and logistics south of the Rappahannock.  The most notable is the raid on Frederick's Hall, in the first week of August, intended to cut the Virginia Central Railroad.  Part of the 6th Wisconsin, including Lt. Colonel Bragg, was detached from the brigade and sent on a rapid march to the North Anna River, where they discovered a large Confederate force was present on their flank.

A council of the officers was called to discuss whether they should abandon their raid due to the danger of being cut off and captured. Bragg, along with Major Rufus Dawes and Lt. Colonel Hugh Judson Kilpatrick, were adamant that the raid should proceed.  The mission was ultimately successful as two miles of Virginia Central Railroad track were destroyed and the Union raiders returned safely to Falmouth.

Second Bull Run (August 1862)