[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John William Stokes

John William Stokes (1 February 1910 – 3 August 1995) was an Australian administrator in the Northern Territory Police, and on the Territories of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and of Christmas Island.

His maternal grandparents were from Stolp, Pomerania, now within Poland, and after moving to Australia in the 1870s they became farmers at Burnett Creek, Victoria. His paternal grandfather was from North Carolina, USA, and died for the Confederates in the American Civil War. Upon his death, Stokes' father went to sea at the age of 14 due to the destitution at home. He eventually joined the Calcutta Police Force in India and came to Victoria in the 1870s when his first wife's health deteriorated. There were no children. After her death in 1894, his father, then one of the first plainclothes detectives in the Victorian Police Force, married his first wife's nurse in 1895. They had six children, the youngest being ‘Jack’ Stokes.

After the death of his father, Jack left school in 1924 at the age of 14 and joined the Victorian Railways as a “boy labourer”. Later, realising that there was no future in the position, he studied at night to become a clerical officer and during the Great Depression, accepted a transfer to the Victorian Taxation Department. There he languished in boredom until a fortuitous glance at a recruitment advertisement for police in the Northern Territory changed his life.

On 31 December 1936 he joined the Northern Territory Police, caught a ship to Darwin and over the next 20 years rose to be Administrative Inspector and Acting Superintendent.

On arrival in Darwin on 8 January 1937, he learned that training was acquired on the job. He began patrolling the streets the next day. The work included several patrols into outback areas, and in September 1937 he was sent for a year to Elcho Island, off Arnhem Land, to deter Japanese pearlers from prostituting Aboriginal women.

At Elcho and elsewhere as the lone policeman in an extensive remote area, he travelled widely with the Aboriginals observing their country and culture, helping to resolve disputes and administering first aid. Journalist Colin Bednall, who visited Elcho on the monthly supply vessel, described Stokes' camp as a “veritable wonder-home”, with gardens and sheds around the main tent. An airstrip was cleared with Aboriginal labour. His final report on departure was commended for its ‘fairness and honesty’ by the Chief Protector of Aborigines and years later he was remembered affectionately by locals.

Six months after leaving Elcho, it was discovered that Stokes had broken his spine in an accident before going to Elcho and now, after working for two years without knowing it, the spine was collapsing. He was sent to Melbourne where 7 inches were taken off the tibia of his left leg and five vertebrae fused together. He recuperated in bed for four months before returning to work in Darwin.

At the outbreak of World War Two in September 1939, Stokes applied for leave to join the Australian Army but was refused because his police work was considered an essential service. During the war he was in charge of the police district centred on Maranboy, south of Katherine, which was then a tin mining camp. He married Edna on 31 January 1940 and she became a vital unpaid contributor to the smooth operation of each of the police stations to which they were posted. Later, in retirement, he described his time in the Territory as the most fulfilling part of his career. Reflecting on a brief return by Stokes to the Territory in 1977, Darwin journalist Alan Wauchope described him as “the kindest and gentlest policeman of them all.”