[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Agha Shahi

rved in that position till the fall of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in 1977. Shahi was appointed Advisor on foreign affairs/foreign minister in 1977 by General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq and resigned from the position of foreign minister in 1982, after developing serious differences with General Zia.

Post-resignation activities
Shahi led various delegations of Pakistan to UN General Assembly, conferences of Non-Aligned Movement and Organization of Islamic Conference. He was a member of various UN commissions and was also elected Chairman of the UN Committee on Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) of which he had been a member since 1982. In 1993, Shahi was Co-Chairman of the Pakistan delegation to the World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna. Shahi also served as Chairman of Institute of Strategic Studies in Islamabad and headed Islamabad Council of World Affairs – a private think tank.

He was the younger brother of Agha Hilaly who also joined ICS and later opted for Pakistan's foreign service, serving as Pakistan's Ambassador in important capitals such as London, Moscow and Washington (at a time when his younger brother Shahi was Pakistan's permanent representative to UN in New York). Agha Hilaly's son, Zafar Hilaly (who is also a former diplomat), is Agha Shahi's nephew.

Death and legacy
On 6 September 2006, he died after suffering a heart attack, at the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences in Islamabad, aged 86.

Pakistan's foreign minister in 2006, Khurshid Mahmood Kasuri, reportedly commented on Agha Shahi's death, "Agha Shahi served in various key positions in the Foreign Ministry with great distinction rising to the position of foreign secretary and foreign minister. A generation of Pakistani diplomats had the fortune to learn from him."

See also
Agha Hilaly

Further reading

References

External links
Pakistan's ex-Foreign Minister Agha Shahi passes away from the Pakistan Times (newspaper) (archived)

|-

1920 births
2006 deaths
Politicians from Bangalore
Muhajir people
Foreign Ministers of Pakistan
Foreign Secretaries of Pakistan
Members of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination
Permanent Representatives of Pakistan to the United Nations
Ambassadors of Pakistan to China
Indian Civil Service (British India) officers
Project-706
Recipients of Nishan-e-Imtiaz
Pakistani civil servants
Pakistani scholars
Military government of Pakistan (1977–1988)
Pakistani anti-communists
People from Karachi
Indian Institute of Science alumni
Pakistani officials of the United Nations