[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mason Brayman

rculated expressing support for the embattled governor, one by Mormon residents, one in the northern counties, and two by anti-Ring groups.  With the conflicting opinions about Brayman, the Hayes administration decided to leave the governor in office till the expiration of his term on July 24, 1880.

The remainder of his term saw Brayman's influence largely blocked by political infighting with pro-Ring elements.  An effort to pass a militia bill during the 10th legislative session passed the upper house but the governor was unable pressure the lower house to pass the legislation.  Similar results occurred with efforts to bring railroad service to the southern portion of the Territory.  The Territory's unwillingness to pass subsidy legislation caused the railroads to lose interest in routes that crossed the Territory in favor of other alternatives.

Brayman's final efforts to defeat the Boise Ring came in his efforts for reapportionment.  In 1879, he took a leave of absence to return the East Coast and lobby the U.S. Congress for changes.  Unsuccessful in this effort he was forced to wait till after the 1880 Census when the governor would lead a three-man commission overseeing allocation of territorial representation.  His successor, John Baldwin Neil, however was named and arrived in the territory to take the oath of office before Brayman was able to complete his plans.

Later life
Brayman left Idaho on August 19, 1880.  His departure did not end his influence on Idaho politics however.  Lewiston-based newspaper editor Alonzo Leland, looking for a rallying point against the Boise Ring nominated the former governor to be the Territorial delegate to the U.S. Congress during the 1880 campaign.  As a result, Brayman received 904 of the 938 votes cast in the northern counties.  This support was insufficient for victory, however, as the southeastern and southwestern counties completely ignored Brayman's candidacy.
Brayman died of Bright's Fever in Kansas City, Missouri, on February 27, 1895.  Obituaries printed at the time tended to praise his earlier years while giving only passing mention to his time in Idaho.

See also
List of American Civil War generals (Union)

References

External links
 , Idaho State Historical Society
Mason Brayman autographed document, MSS 3966 at L. Tom Perry Special Collections, Harold B. Lee Library, Brigham Young University
Mason Brayman correspondence, MSS SC 479 at L. Tom Perry Special Collections, Harold B. Lee Library, Brigham Young University
 https://www.nps.gov/liho/planyourvisit/upload/Civil-War-Site-neighborhhod-Bulletin.pdf 

1813 births
1895 deaths
Politicians from Buffalo, New York
Politicians from Springfield, Illinois
Union Army generals
People of New York (state) in the American Civil War
Governors of Idaho Territory
Illinois lawyers
New York (state) lawyers
Illinois Republicans
Idaho Republicans
American temperance activists
19th-century American politicians
Activists from Buffalo, New York
Lawyers from Buffalo, New York
Military personnel from Buffalo, New York
Baptists from New York (state)
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century Baptists
Military personnel from Illinois