[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Chibli Mallat

e courts' role in society in the works of John Hart Ely and the American constitutional tradition, the progressive humanism of Lebanese leader Kamal Jumblat; the aggiornamento of the Islamic legal tradition by the Iraqi Mohammad Baqir al-Sadr; and Gilles Deleuze's creative, multi-layered philosophy.

Collaborative work
Academic collaborative work has seen him serving as a joint founder and general editor of the Yearbook of Islamic and Middle Eastern Law, now at Brill, a series on 'Horizons Européens' for the Centre d'Etudes de l'Union Européenne at Saint Joseph University, and a series on Islamic and Middle Eastern Law at Kluwer Law International as director of the  Center of Islamic and Middle Eastern Law at the School of Oriental and African Studies. He has also contributed several entries and chapters to specialised encyclopedias of Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies, and of comparative law.<ref>'Comparative law and the Islamic (Middle Eastern) legal culture', in Mathias Reimann and Reinhard Zimmermann eds., Oxford Handbook of Comparative Law, OUP, 2006, 609-639; 'Islam and the constitutional order', in Michel Rosenfeld and Andras Sajo eds, Oxford Handbook of Comparative Constitutional Law, Oxford University Press, 2012, 1287-1303 (Also in Japanese, published 2011 tr. and ed. Makoto Mizutani); Emtries 'Islamic Law in Arab Countries', 'Commercial Law: Islamic Law (Modern)', 'Contract: Contracts and Unilateral Acts in Islamic Law ', 'International Law: Islamic Public Law', 'Constitutional Law: Constitutions and Constitutional Law in Islamic Law: Overview and The Arab Countries',  in Stanley Katz general ed., Baber Johansen, ME and Islam ed., The Encyclopedia of Legal History, Oxford UP 2009; 'Attorney', entry in Encyclopaedia of Islam 3d ed., 2008; 'Islamic Legal Theory- Introducing usul al-fiqh, entry in IVR Encyclopaedia of Legal Theory and Philosophy of Law, 2005;  'Muhammad Baqer al-Sadr', 'Iraq', 'Contracts', entries in Encyclopaedia of the Modern Islamic World, Oxford University Press, 1995.</ref> In 2014, he helped found and became the commissioning editor of Bada'e', a niche publishing house of books in Arabic, French and English on the Middle East.

Islamic and Middle Eastern law
In his work on Islamic and Middle Eastern law, he has engaged scholarship from the West and from the Middle East in a search for a common language of human rights and the rule of law to be conveyed from within the uniquely rich legal tradition of the Middle East from Hammurabi to the present. His first book, the Renewal of Islamic Law, which focused on the legal works of the most innovative Islamic scholar of the 20th century, the Iraqi Mohammad Baqir al-Sadr, received the North America Middle East Studies Association's annual prize, the Albert Hourani Book Award. Its Arabic version, published in 1998, circulated underground in Iraq until the demise of Saddam Hussein in 2003, and was reprinted several times since. The book was reviewed in over a hundred academic and press outlets, and revealed to the West a humanist scholarship at the highest intellectual level in Najaf. In 2009, he published Iraq- Guide to Law and Policy at Aspen/Kluwer Law International.

His Introduction to Middle Eastern Law, the result of twenty years of research, appeared in 2007, and expanded the field of Islamic law to include the Middle East pre-Islamic legal tradition as an important component for legal research, and to prominently feature case law as a novel and essential focus to understand the law applied in everyday's life. For the classical period of Islam, it includes archival work on the court registers systematically analysed for the first time from a legal perspective. In the modern period, the Introduction covers the main fields of law in the operation of Middle Eastern courts from Pakistan to Morocco.

In 2023, he published an extensive treatise on Saudi Arabian Law at Oxford University Press.  The Normalization of Saudi Law is based on ten years of research in Saudi case-law and on his experience in Saudi cases litigated in the Cayman Islands, England and the United States.

European and international law
In European and international law, his writings have focused on the formation of the European Union with a particular attention to the shortcomings of the institutional structure in the EU's democratic deficit, the deadlocks of the exit mechanisms for nonconforming countries, including the Euro, and the rise of 'the Euro-Mediterranean continent'. In international law, he uses the Middle East as the privileged terrain for an understanding of the interaction between international criminal law, diplomacy and politics, especially through his representation of victims of crimes against humanity in Iraq, Lebanon, Israel-Palestine and Libya.