[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Samata (NGO)

f infrastructure facilities to the tribal groups whose basic needs are scarcely addressed; 
 Ill-health and inaccessibility of health services resulting in high mortality; 
 Inadequate and substandard educational facilities to the tribal children with a very high drop out rate particularly of girls.

Activities of Samata during the period
Within a larger development context, Samata explored ways of creating holistic approaches to supporting tribal groups struggling for land rights, environmental protection, and a responsive democracy. Samata's action took the form of grassroots campaigns to address the problems and issues facing tribal groups. These campaigns included:
 Building up micro credit networks among tribal women.
 Encouraging alternative development systems and local democratic institutions to avoid future economic exploitations and deprivations. This led to the creation of business associations and cooperatives, grain banks, property protection groups, health centers, and water-user associations.
 Constructing community managed primary education centers to meet the growing demand for education among tribal groups at the village level.
 Resolving forest conflicts, attaining recognition of forest settlements, and forming Vana Samrakshana Samithis (forest protection committees under the World Bank-aided forestry project).
 Using alternative technology development systems. These systems combine the traditional knowledge of tribal groups with low-cost modern technologies for safe drinking water, environmentally friendly irrigation, electricity, housing and land development projects.
 Promoting eco-tourism.
 Setting a precedent for conflict resolution between tribals and the state by settling conflicts over the designation of forest village by the Ministry of Environment and Forests, according to the guidelines set in 1980.
 Setting up a micro-hydel project as a model in an interior tribal area as alternate source of energy generation in the hills.

The Metamorphis – 1998

Samata, having played the role of a community-based micro level development organisation with its focus on organising tribal communities shifted its focus to advocacy and to providing support to address the macro issues of the region of north coastal Andhra Pradesh and Southern Orissa. 
Under the changed perspective, Samata's new focus is:   
To work towards a people and environment friendly development of the Eastern Ghats region. 
To enable community-based organisations working with the marginalised like tribals, farmers, fishermen, etc. build up their capacities with the support and experience of Samata.
To endeavour towards development of alternate development designs for optimal utilisation of natural resources. 
To empower poor communities in the Eastern Ghats and help them in their right to decision-making and right to gain control over their natural resources. 
To build up a strong Resource Centre for research and documentation on the issues related to north coastal Andhra Pradesh, particularly the tribal areas.

Services provided by Samata

1. Capacity building :

Samata, with its experience in community organisation, provides capacity building support to small groups and local organisations working for people's rights as they find it difficult to obtain information and inputs on their own. Samata assists ten community-based organizations in north coastal Andhra Pradesh in capacity building, education and health, legal aid, linkages, information and documentation, organisation management, financial support, campaign support, marketing and technical expertise.

2. Mines, Minerals & People:

Samata is the National Secretariat for a national network of communities, NGO's, resource organisations and several concerned institutions and individuals called Mines, Minerals & PEOPLE (mm&P). This network addresses the problems of communities and mine-workers affected by mining and also its impacts on the environment. It has about 150 member groups from 16 states in the country. The network supports local campaigns through information, linkages, legal, media, technical and policy support on mining issues and highlights them at a national and international level.

3. Industry Watch:

Samata, monitors the proposed and existing industries and development projects in the state of A.P in order to act as a vigilant civil society. It participates in public hearings, accesses information and disseminates it to the local communities affected. It takes up legal, technical and media advocacy on urban and rural environment issues affected by industries.

4. Support to Development Activities: