[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sal Rinauro

and former Embassy associate and tag team partner in ROH, Jimmy Rave.  Recently GCW secured a television deal to broadcast on cable 24 in Atlanta Georgia; the Pilot broadcast featured the main event of Sal Rinauro vs. Murder One, and the second broadcast featured a main event of him vs. Mike Kross.

Rinauro also wrestles for RAMPAGE Pro Wrestling, a promotion based out of Warner Robins Georgia. He has held the RPW Intercontinental Championship, continued his feud with Jimmy Rave, and also has had several outstanding matches with Austin "Consequences" Creed, who also appears as a regular of the promotion. He has also held the RPW heavy-weight and cruiserweight titles. In summer 2010 Rinauro was named Commissioner of RPW after Nick Patrick left. Rinauro was involved in the 4-corners match to crown the 1st ever RPW T.V. champion where he was unsuccessful. Rinauro faced heavy-weight champion Shaun Banks at Sizzlin Summer Bash 2 where he was unsuccessful. He joined the feud between Jimmy Rave & Kyle Matthews in a non-wrestling role until he resigned in December. On December 18 Rinauro returned as GM to team with Matthews, Drew Adler, Michael Stevens, & Adrian Hawkins against Jimmy Rave, Chip Day, Corey Hollis, Mike Posey, & Jeremy Vain where he was eventually eliminated although his team was victorious. Rinauro participated in a few matches over the next few weeks. On April 2 he challenged Jeremy Vain for the NWA RPW T.V. title where he was unsuccessful. On May 1 Rinauro was the special enforcer in the cage match between Rave & Matthews. Rinauro turned heel joining Rave and costing Matthews the match. On May 15 Rinauro teamed with Vain in a semi-final match in the NWA RPW tag team title tournament against Frankie Valentine and Matthews where they were unsuccessful. Earlier in the night Rinauro teamed with Hollis, Day, & Rave in a losing effort against the NWA RPW tag team champions the Usual Suspects & the NWA world tag team champions the Dark City Fight Club. On May 29 Rinauro faced off against his old rival J-Rod in a losing effort.

Sal is currently working on his self-proclaimed auto biography. " It's hard being a Salifornia kid". The book should be available everywhere books are sold September 23, 2016. He will be signing books the day of release in Daytona Beach, where he currently resides. Sal Rinauro made his last appearance for NWA on January 21, 2020, now he is working for WrestleMerica and Anarchy Wrestling.

Wrestling Road Diaries
In 2011, Roundtable Creations released The Wrestling Road Diaries, a wrestling documentary that features Sal, Colt Cabana and Bryan Danielson. The film was shot over a period of 10 days in September 2009, and follows the wrestlers as they travel from show to show. It also shows them performing for various wrestling companies and training aspiring wrestlers. (Wrestling Road Diaries. Dir. Eric Santamaria. Perf. Colt Cabana, Bryan Danielson, Sal Rinauro. DVD. Roundtable Creations, 2011.)

Championships and accomplishments
All-Star Wrestling Network
AWN Tag Team Championship (1 time) - Fry Daddy
Deep South Wrestling
DSW Tag Team Championship (1 time, final) – with Caleb Konley
Full Impact Pro
FIP Florida Heritage Championship (1 time)
FIP Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Spanky
Great Championship Wrestling
Great Championship Wrestling Interstate Championship (3 times)
NWA Anarchy
NWA Anarchy Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Seth Delay
NWA Wildside
NWA Wildside Junior Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Peachstate Wrestling Alliance
PWA No Limits Championship (1 time)
PWA Heritage Championship (3 times)
PWA Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Nigel Sherrod
Pro Wrestling Illustrated
Ranked No. 424 of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2021
Rampage Pro Wrestling
RPW Cruiserweight Championship (2 times)
RPW Intercontinental Championship (1 time)
Ring of Honor
ROH Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Tony Mamaluke
Southern Fried Championship Wrestling
SFCW Classic Championship (1 time)
SFCW Tag Team Championship (2 times) - with Sunny Daze 
Charles William Anschutz Memorial Tournament (2021) 
Southern Honor Wrestling
SHW Tag Team Championship (1 time) - Sunny Daze
Ultimate Christian Wrestling
UCW Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Why We Wrestle
Anarchy Triple Crown Championship (1 time)

Luchas de Apuestas record

References

External links
 Sal Rinauro's official website
 Accelerator wrestler biographies

1982 births
American male professional wrestlers
Living people
21st-century professional wrestlers
ROH World Tag Team Champions
NWA Georgia Junior Heavyweight Champions