[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Douglas S. Jackson

ackson apparently remained quite popular; he won the Democratic nomination for a third (second full) term in the Tennessee Senate on August 3, 2006 with over 80% of the vote. However, he was defeated in the general election by Republican Jim Somerville on November 2, 2010, ending his Senate service.

Legislative actions
Jackson sponsored a controversial bill "allowing Tennessee's estimated 270,000 handgun-carry permit holders to go armed in restaurants, bars, museums and other establishments licensed to sell alcohol for on-premises consumption (providing that they refrained from consuming themselves while armed)."  The Senate voted to override an earlier veto by Tennessee's Governor Phil Bredesen on May 28, 2010.  The law took effect on July 1 of that year.  Democratic then-Governor Phil Bredesen opposed the "guns bill sponsored by Sen. Doug Jackson, D-Dickson, on the basis that 'guns and alcohol don't mix.'"  Despite Jackson's assertion that, "I haven't gotten a complaint from a single citizen that a permit holder made them feel uncomfortable" there was some public outcry and websites started to voice opposition to the law.  At the time of its passage, many high-profile law enforcement officers stood in opposition to Jackson's position on the bill.  Jackson received public attention in early 2006 as a sponsor of a bill to increase Tennessee's minimum wage to $1.00 an hour above the then-federally required $5.15/hr. Unlike many other states, Tennessee has never had a state minimum wage requirement in excess of the federal rate.  This bill faced stiff opposition from business interests which have often supported Jackson in the past, as well as Republican members. Jackson's passed on the floor of the then-Democrat controlled House but failed on the floor of the Republican-controlled senate. The vote broke along party lines.

References

1954 births
Austin Peay State University alumni
Living people
Democratic Party members of the Tennessee House of Representatives
Democratic Party Tennessee state senators
Samford University alumni
Tennessee lawyers
People from Dickson, Tennessee