[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mercenaries in popular culture

nnamed sub-Saharan African nation. Daniel Carney's book has a screenplay by Reginald Rose, an exciting score by Roy Budd, Mike Hoare acts as technical adviser and is directed by Andrew V. McLaglen, son of Victor.
 Scorticateli Vivi/The Wild Geese Attack/Skin 'Em Alive/Duri a morire/Tough To Kill (1978) - An Italian action film which concerns a group of mercenaries in an unspecified African country who turn on each other. Many action setpieces from The Red Berets reappear in the film that was made by the same director.
 Cuba (1979) - Ex-SAS Major Sean Connery and ex-RAF pilot Denholm Elliott are hired by the Fulgencio Batista regime to put down Fidel Castro's Cuban revolution in 1959. It was directed by Richard Lester.
 The Dogs of War (1981) - Based on Frederick Forsyth's novel of a mercenary operation led by Christopher Walken that proceeds from Central America to the planning, preparation, and execution of a mercenary operation in Sub-Saharan Africa. Director John Irvin's erudite film begins with a quote from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar and ends with A.E. Housman's poem Epitaph For an Army of Mercenaries being sung over the end titles.
 Uncommon Valor (1983) - Gene Hackman recruits former soldiers to rescue POWs, including his own son, from a prison camp in Laos.
 Under Fire (1983) - A fictional account of a comedy relief mercenary in Nicaragua meeting journalist Nick Nolte
 Code Name: Wild Geese (1984) - Lewis Collins and Lee Van Cleef in a fictionalised account of mercenaries in the Far East
 Commando Leopard (1985) - Lewis Collins again is a mercenary up against rival mercenaries led by Klaus Kinski
 Flesh & Blood (1985) - The story of an insurgent mercenary band in Renaissance Italy, featuring Rutger Hauer as the band's leader.
 Men of War (1994) - John Sayles wrote a film about a group of mercenaries led by Dolph Lundgren who are sent to an unnamed Asian country on behalf of big business interests, When they empathise with the locals, their employers have to hire another mercenary group to destroy them.
 The Substitute (1996) - Tom Berenger stars as the head of a crew of mercenaries who finds himself teaching as a substitute teacher in a tough American high school by day and fighting a drug ring in his off time.
 The Lost World: Jurassic Park (1997) - The corporation InGen hires several mercenaries and hunters to capture dinosaurs on Isla Sorna.
 Ronin (1998) - Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, Natascha McElhone, Sean Bean and Stellan Skarsgård play mercenaries.
 Savior (1998) - American Regular Army officer Dennis Quaid loses his wife and child in a terrorist bomb attack in Paris that leads him to plot revenge, escape prosecution by joining the French Foreign Legion then leaving to become a mercenary in Bosnia where he rediscovers his lost humanity.
 Jurassic Park 3 (2001) - three mercenaries named Cooper, Nash, and Udesky infiltrate the island of Isla Sorna to find a missing boy named Eric Kirby only to be eaten by a Spinosaurus and a pack of Velociraptors
 Atlantis: The Lost Empire (2001)- The main antagonist, Lyle T. Rourke (voiced by James Garner) turns out to be a ruthless mercenary who is out to steal a crystal from Atlantis to make tons of money only to be crystallized and shattered into a million pieces at the end.
 Man on Fire (2004) - Denzel Washington plays a former mercenary hired as a bodyguard for a young girl in Mexico City who subsequently gets kidnapped. Christopher Walken plays his buddy and fellow mercenary who currently runs a bodyguard service in Ciudad Juarez.
 Blood Diamond (2006) - Leonardo DiCaprio plays a white Rhodesian mercenary and diamond smuggler who attempts to obtain the diamond from Djimon Hounsou's character. The film examines the use of professional mercenary soldiers in third-world conflict zones, often paid directly in namesake "blood diamonds". Especially notable is one of the movie's later scenes, which depicts a private army of ruthless South African mercenaries launching an assault on one of Sierra Leone's many dangerous conflict zones in search of rare pink diamonds.
 Outpost (2008) - Ray Stevenson plays a mercenary who is hired to protect a mysterious businessman in a war-torn eastern-bloc country with a crack team of ex-soldiers.
 Rambo (2008) - John Rambo, the main protagonist of the series, played by Sylvester Stallone joins a team of mercenaries, on a mission to save a group of volunteered missionaries, who are held captive in Burma.
 Babylon A.D. (2008) - Vin Diesel stars as a mercenary hired to protect a mysterious girl named Aurora to New York.
 The Star Wars series, particularly the Expanded Universe, features many mercenary and bounty hunter style characters, such as Kyle Katarn and the infamous Boba Fett.
 Predators (2010) - Royce, the protagonist of the movie, is a mercenary.
 The Expendables series of movies about a group of elite mercenaries, starring Sylvester Stallone, Jason Statham, Dolph Lundgren, Jet Li, Mickey Rourke, Randy Couture, Steve Austi