[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# George Boyd (footballer)

." Peterborough subsequently said that with Boyd's contract expiring in the summer, they would be prepared to offer him a new contract or let him leave on loan when the emergency loan window opened, with at least one club having signalled their interest in signing him on a loan agreement.

Hull City

Boyd  subsequently joined Championship club Hull City on loan until the end of the 2012–13 season on 21 February 2013, with a view to a permanent move. He made his debut two days after signing, coming on as a second-half substitute for Robert Koren in a 4–1 away defeat to Bolton Wanderers. Boyd's full debut came at home in the following match a week later, as he scored twice in a 5–2 victory over Birmingham City on 2 March 2013. After the performance, Hull manager Steve Bruce stated – "It was a wonder show. His work-rate and intelligence – he looked the real deal. I've always been a big admirer, but I didn't know he was that good. If he can keep performing like that then we've got some player on our hands". He played regularly for the remainder of the season, including in Hull's 2–2 home draw with Cardiff City on the last day of the season, the match that ultimately secured the club's promotion back to the Premier League. During his loan spell, Boyd made thirteen appearances and scored four times.

He signed for Hull on a permanent basis on 28 May 2013, joining on a two-year contract. He made his Premier League debut on the opening day of the 2013–14 season when he came off the substitute's bench in a 2–0 loss against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge. Boyd scored his first goal of the season, also his first in the top tier of English football, in Hull's 6–0 home win against Fulham on 28 December 2013, meeting Ahmed Elmohamady's cross to score the fourth of six-second-half goals. He scored the only goal of the game courtesy of a "towering header" as Hull secured a crucial 1–0 win over Swansea City on 5 April 2014; the victory helping move Hull "a substantial step closer to securing their Premier League status for another season". As well as helping Hull secure Premier League safety, Boyd also played in all seven of Hull's FA Cup matches that season, culminating in an appearance as a substitute in a 3–2 extra-time loss to Arsenal in the 2014 FA Cup Final at Wembley Stadium on 17 May 2014. Boyd made 39 appearances for Hull during the season, scoring twice.

Boyd remained at Hull for the start of the 2014–15 season and started in Hull's first appearance in a major European competition, also making his European debut, in a 1–0 first leg play-off round defeat away to Lokeren on 21 August 2014. The start proved to be only one of two appearances for Hull during the opening month of the season as manager Steve Bruce stated Boyd was nearing a move to fellow Premier League club Burnley. Ahead of the move being confirmed, Bruce stated "I wish him well. I've been in the game a long time and if all professional footballers were like George Boyd my job would be easy". During his year-and-a-half stay at Hull, Boyd made 54 appearances and scored six goals.

Burnley

The move to Burnley was confirmed on 1 September 2014, Boyd signing for an undisclosed fee "believed to be in the region of £3million" and on a three-year contract. He made his debut in a 0–0 draw against Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park on 13 September 2014, playing the whole match. Boyd scored his first goal for Burnley in the club's 3–1 defeat to West Ham United at Turf Moor on 18 October 2014, briefly halving the deficit when he reacted the quickest to latch onto Michael Kightly's cross. He scored three goals within the space of a month in December 2014 into January 2015 when he netted twice in two draws with Newcastle United, as well as scoring the first goal in a 2–2 comeback draw away at Manchester City. Boyd proceeded to score in the corresponding home fixture against Manchester City on 14 March 2015, his fifth goal of the season, when he "arrowed in a low half-volley" to secure a "famous" 1–0 win. He made 37 appearances during the season, scoring five times, as his first season at the club ended in relegation back to the Championship. Boyd finished the season as having covered an average of 7.45 miles per game, the highest average distance of any player in the Premier League that season. He was voted Burnley's Player of the Year at the end of the season, which Boyd described as a "great honour".