[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rail transport in Mexico

H.

Mass transit
Urban rail transit systems in Mexico include four light rail or rapid transit systems: 
The Guadalajara light rail system, the Mexico City Metro, the Xochimilco Light Rail line (in Mexico City) and the Monterrey Metro. In 2017, the Puebla-Cholula Tourist Train opened in Puebla City.

Expansion
In January 2022, the Mexican Secretary of communications and transport approved a 180 Kilometer rail expansion in the Durango-Mazatlan corridor. It has an estimated cost of 1.2 billion dollars to revive and expand the abandoned corridor under a private-public partnership with the company Caxxor Group, as part of the USMCA agreement.

Museums 

There are several rail museums in Mexico including the Railway Museum in San Luis Potosi, the Old Railway Station Museum in Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes;
a former station along the Interoceanic Railway of Mexico in Cuautla, Morelos which serves as a museum;
the Museo de las Ferrocarilles en Yucatán is in Mérida, Yucatán; and the National Railway Museum in Puebla, Puebla.

Railway links with adjacent countries 
 United States – freight only – same 
 Guatemala – at Ciudad Tecún Umán, – break-of-gauge  /  (rebuilt as standard gauge in 2019)

See also 

 List of Mexican railroads
 List of street railways in Mexico (all-time, historical list)
 Transportation in Mexico

References

Further reading
 Coatsworth, John H. "Indispensable railroads in a backward economy: the case of Mexico." Journal of Economic History 39.04 (1979) pp: 939–960. in JSTOR
 Coatsworth, John. "Railroads, landholding, and agrarian protest in the early porfiriato." Hispanic American Historical Review (1974) pp: 48–71. in JSTOR
 Knapp, Frank A. "Precursors of American investment in Mexican railroads." Pacific Historical Review (1952): 43–64. in JSTOR
 Lewis, Daniel. Iron Horse Imperialism: The Southern Pacific of Mexico, 1880–1950 (University of Arizona Press, 2007)
 Matthews, Michael. The Civilizing Machine: A Cultural History of Mexican Railroads, 1876–1910 (2014)  excerpt
 Miller, Richard Ulric. "American railroad unions and the national railways of Mexico: An exercise in nineteenth‐century proletarian manifest destiny," Labor History 15.2 (1974) pp: 239–260.
 Powell, Fred Wilbur. The Railroads of Mexico (1921)
 Van Hoy, Teresa. A social history of Mexico's railroads: peons, prisoners, and priests (Rowman & Littlefield, 2008)
 Donovan, Frank and Kerr, John Leeds. Destination Topolobampo: The Kansas City, Mexico & Orient Railway (Golden West Books, 1968)

External links 

 The Mexican Railways
 History of Mexico's Railroads  (in Spanish)
 The Railroads of Mexico by Fred Wilbur Powell on Google Books
 Ferrocarril Coahuila Durango
 Ferromex
 Ferrosur
 Kansas City Southern
 Ferrocarril Y Terminal Del Valle De Mexico
 Mexican government: Secretary of Communication & Transport
 Mexico Infrastructure and Rail Projects
 Union Pacific Railroad Company
 Kansas City Southern Railway Company
 Pictures of restored(non-operational) train station in Durango, Mexico