[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# July 1976

ent and United Nations diplomat who had been using his diplomatic immunity status to arrange asylum for endangered Chileans in foreign embassies, was found dead, two days after he had been kidnapped and tortured.
Billie von Bremen, American sprint runner and gold medalist in the 1932 Summer Olympics

July 17, 1976 (Saturday)
Canada hosted the Olympic games for the first time as the 1976 Summer Olympics began with opening ceremonies in Montreal.  Athletes representing 94 nations participated in the opening ceremony, while another 25 teams stayed away.
East Timor was declared the 27th province of Indonesia.  The eastern half of the island of Timor had been a colony of Portugal until 1975, and was invaded by Indonesia shortly after independence activists on the island attempted to declare East Timor to be an independent nation.
WBA World welterweight boxing champion Ángel Espada was knocked out in the second round of title bout in Mexicali by José Cuevas, an 18-year-old challenger.
Born: 
Luke Bryan, bestselling American country music singer; in Leesburg, Georgia
Matt Holmes, Australian TV actor known for Sea Patrol; in Albury, New South Wales
Died: 
Carol Park, 30, English housewife posthumously called "The Lady in the Lake", vanished after having last been seen in her home in Leece in Cumbria.  Her husband, Gordon Park, didn't report her disappearance until six weeks later, and said that his wife had said she was leaving him to live with another man.  Her body would be discovered 21 years later, on August 13, 1997, by amateur divers who found her corpse on an underwater ledge  below the surface of a large lake, Coniston Water. After being convicted of her murder in 2005 and sentenced to life in prison, Gordon Parks would hang himself in 2020.
Lucie Mannheim, 77, German singer and actress

July 18, 1976 (Sunday)

Nadia Comăneci of Romania became the first gymnast in Olympic history to receive a perfect score (10.00), after being judged perfect in her performance on the uneven parallel bars as part of the compulsory gymnastics exercises event, and went on to win the first of six gold medals.  The opinion of the judges was protested by the Soviet gymnastics team, without success.  Comaneci had been judged perfect in lower-level competitions prior to appearing in Montreal; a press report noted at the time that her mark was "the first in modern Olympic history but Nadia's 17th."  According to another observer, a perfect score had been given by one of the four judges in Olympic competition in the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo but "at least three of the four judges must score 10.00 before the overall score comes up the same." The 14-year-old prodigy of the gymnastics school of Béla Károlyi would achieve six more perfect scores and gold medals before the games concluded.
Diallo Telli, the Minister of Justice for the West African nation of Guinea since 1972, and the Secretary General of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) from 1964 to 1972, was arrested at his home and charged with attempting to overthrow the government of Guinean President Sekou Toure.  The indictment followed discussions in a special commission of inquiry headed by Mamadi Keïta, the Minister of Education and half-brother of Toure's wife.  Telli was imprisoned at Camp Boiro, where he and four other arrested government ministers would die of enforced starvation in 1977.  Telli's arrest, along with those of five other people, was announced by Toure in a radio address on July 24.  Two days before his arrest, Radio Conakry had announced that 19 people had been rounded up after the discovery of a plot to assassinate Toure.
Born: Elsa Pataky (stage name for Elsa Lafuente Medianu), Spanish stage, film and TV actress known for The Fast and the Furious series of films; in Madrid