[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 9th Michigan Cavalry Regiment

e attacked his rear, while General Judah attacked his front. The engagement was brisk, but short, and the rout of the rebels was complete, over 2000 prisoners being taken by the union forces, with some artillery and a large amount of small arms and equipment, with numerous horses and other property.

The Ninth was hotly engaged, Companies "L" and "F", under Major Gallagher, were dismounted and advanced as skirmishers, driving the rebels, turning their retreat into a complete rout. Major Gallagher, with Company "F:, under the command of Lieutenant Karrer, charged on the rebel flank, capturing three pieces of artillery, with a large number of prisoners, following the retreating confederates for about four miles, until relieved by other union forces. Another detachment of the Ninth, under the command of Colonel David, made up of Companies "C" and "K", along with portions of Companies "A" and "B", with a section of Battery "L", First Michigan Light Artillery, were ordered in pursuit of Morgan, having embarked on transports at Lawrenceburg on July 14., landed at Portsmouth, Ohio, on the 16th., thence pursuing the rebels in the direction of Chester, overtaking them and capturing some prisoners. Continuing the pursuit, the detachment reached Buffington's Island, then on Sunday morning of the 19th., engaged them at that point, taking a large number of prisoners. After the fight, Colonel David's forces were united with that of Lieutenant Acker, then the regiment commenced a movement back to Covington, arriving there on July 31. Another detachment, under the command of Major May, consisting of Companies "D", "E", "H", and "I", with a section of Battery "L", First Michigan Light Artillery, under Lieutenant Gallagher, had left Westport,KY, July the 15th., on board transports, arriving at Cincinnati on the 16th., going into camp at Covington, and remaining there until the 24th. Here Companies "C" and "K", from Portsmouth, joined Way's command. This force on the above date also entered on the pursuit of Morgan, by way of the Little Miami Railroad, arriving at Mingo Junction on the 25th., then marched to La Grange, then to Stubenville. Morgan. being tracked, was soon overtaken, when skirmishing commenced, continuing until after dark, with some loss in wounded, driving the rebels before them during the entire night, exchanging shots.

On the morning of the 26th., Morgan being hard pressed and flanked, was forced into an engagement which resulted, after a severe fight of an hour and a half, in the complete rout of his forces, with a loss of 23 killed, 44 wounded and 305 prisoners, while the detachment of the Ninth, lost in wounded, Lieutenant Fisk and seven men. The pursuit was continued, Morgan with the remnants of his force flying in confusion until, meeting with the forces under General Shackleford, he surrendered.

The regiment, having been reunited at Covington, proceeded to Hickman's Bridge, then participated in the expedition of General Burnside into Eastern Tennessee, arriving at Knoxville on the 3rd. of September, having skirmished at Loudon on the 2nd. From Knoxville they proceeded to the Cumberland Gap. On the 7th., a detachment of the regiment drove in the rebel pickets, entered the Gap, then burned a large mill, on which the confederacy depended to a great extent for subsistence. Loss to the regiment was one killed and one wounded. On the 8th., the rebels, 2500 strong, with 14 cannon, surrendered to the Union forces.

Subsequently, the regiment was engaged at Carter's Station, September 22, loss one killed, four wounded, Zollicoffer, September 24, driving the rebels from their fortifications, Blue Springs on October 5. and 10th., with a loss of two wounded, then at Raytown on October 11., with a loss of two killed and two wounded.

Since they arrived at Covington, in May 1862, the regiment marched nearly 3000 miles, exclusive of marches by detachments, while scouting, foraging, etc.

At the beginning of November, 1863, the regiment was at Henderson Station, and seems to have performed a considerable amount of scouting during the month, in that portion of Tennessee. In December, notes its march towards Knoxville on the 6th., then a skirmish with the confederates on Clinch Mountain on the 7th, during a march 30 miles. On the 10th., while on reconnaissance, the met the rebels two miles from Moorestown, and successfully engaged them, then on the 12th., was occupied, with its Brigade, in a sharp action near Russellville. The position of the regiment at Bean's Station, was attacked on the 14th, causing the command to fall back toward Rutledge.

The next two days, the regiment, under the command of Major Brockway, (Colonel Acker being wounded at Bean's Station), while acting as rear guard, was engaged in constant skirmishing near Rutledge. Later in the month they were in skirmishes at Dandredge and Mossy Creek.