[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 137]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

exactly what I refused to be from the first, and
no one could have spoken more plainly. And now you are shocked and
pained and aggrieved because I won't eat my words. Yet we have talked
over all this, in my room at Dunaghee, by the hour. Oh! Henriette, why
did you not listen to your conscience and be honest with me?"

"Hadria, you insult me."

"Why could not Hubert choose one among the hundreds and thousands of
women who would have passed under the yoke without a question, and have
gladly harnessed herself to his chariot by the reins of her own
conscience?"

"I would to heaven he _had_!" Henriette was goaded into replying.

Hadria laughed. Then her brow clouded with pain. "Ah, why did he not
meet my frankness with an equal frankness, at the time? All this trouble
would have been saved us both if _only_ he had been honest."

"My dear, he was in love with you."

"And so he thought himself justified in deceiving me. There is _indeed_
war to the knife between the sexes!" Hadria stood with her elbows on
the back of a high arm-chair, her chin resting on her hands.

"It is not fair to use that word. I tell you that we both confidently
expected that when you had more experience you would be like other women
and adjust yourself sensibly to your conditions."

"I see," said Hadria, "and so it was decided that Hubert was to pretend
to have no objections to my wild ideas, so as to obtain my consent,
trusting to the ponderous bulk of circumstance to hold me flat and
subservient when I no longer had a remedy in my power. You neither of
you lack brains, at any rate." Henriette clenched her hands in the
effort of self-control.

"In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, our forecasts would have come
true," she said. "I mean----"

"That is refreshingly frank," cried Hadria.

"We thought we acted for the best."

"Oh, if it comes to that, the Spanish Inquisitors doubtless thought that
they were acting for the best, when they made bonfires of heretics in
the market-places." Henriette bent her head and clasped the arms of the
chair, tightly.

"Well, if there be any one at fault in the matter, _I_ am the culprit,"
she said in a voice that trembled. "It was _I_ who assured Hubert that
experience would alter you. It was I who represented to him that though
you might be impulsive, even hard at times, you could not persist in a
course that would give pain, and that if you saw that any act of yours
caused him to suffer, you would give it up. I was convinced that your
character was good and noble _au fond_, Hadria, and I have believed it
up to this moment."

Hadria drew herself together with a start, and her face darkened. "You
make me regret that I ever had a good or a pitiful impulse!" she cried
with passion.

She went to the window and stood leaning against the casement, with
crossed arms.

Henriette turned round in her chair.

"Why do you always resist your better nature, Hadria?"

"You use it against me. It is the same with all women. Let them beware
of their 'better natures,' poor hunted fools! for that 'better nature'
will be used as a dog-chain, by which they can be led, like
toy-terriers, from beginning to end of what they are pleased to call
their lives!"

"Oh, Hadria, Hadria!" cried Miss Temperley with deep regret in her tone.

But Hadria was only roused by the remonstrance.

"It is cunning, shallow, heartless women, who really fare best in our
society; its conditions suit them. _They_ have no pity, no sympathy to
make a chain of; _they_ don't mind stooping to conquer; _they_ don't
mind playing upon the weaker, baser sides of men's natures; _they_ don't
mind appealing, for their own ends, to the pity and generosity of
others; _they_ don't mind swallowing indignity and smiling abjectly,
like any woman of the harem at her lord, so that they gain their object.
_That_ is the sort of 'woman's nature' that our conditions are busy
selecting. Let us cultivate it. We live in a scientific age; the fittest
survive. Let us be 'fit.'"

"Let us be womanly, let us do our duty, let us hearken to our
conscience!" cried Henriette.

"Thank you! If my conscience is going to be made into a helm by which
others may guide me according to their good pleasure, the sooner that
helm is destroyed the better. That is the conclusion to which you drive
me and the rest of us, Henriette."

"Charity demands that I do not believe what you say," said Miss
Temperley.

"Oh, don't trouble to be charitable!"

Henriette heaved a deep sigh. "Hadria," she said, "are you going to
allow your petty rancour about this--well, I will call it error of ours,
if you like to be severe--are you going to bear malice and ruin your own
life and Hubert's and the children's? Are you so unforgiving, so lacking
in generosity?"

"_You_ call it an error. _I_ call it a treachery," returned Hadria. "Why
should the results of that treachery be thrust on to _my_ shoulders to
bear? Why