[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 Malegaon bombings

to the 11 July 2006 Mumbai train bombings, a terrorist incident for which several Islamist groups are suspects. Since the investigation was still under way, Nasik Superintendent of Police Rajvardhan declined to give details, saying: "We can't say anything till we get reports from all the agencies".

However, the Anti Terroris Squad has prima facie ruled out the involvement of Hindu Nationalist groups like the Bajrang Dal in the Malegaon blasts citing two reasons:
 RDX is only available to Islamist outfits.
 Bajrang Dal activists so far have only used crude bombs, nothing as sophisticated as the ones in Malegaon.

Ajai Sahni, an intelligence analyst who tracks terrorist groups in South Asia, also said it was unlikely to be a Hindu group because they "lacked the organisation for such an attack".

On 12 September 2006, Indian Prime Minister said it was inappropriate to "rule out or rule in" the involvement of Hindu groups. "I think there should be a fair investigation which inspires confidence and brings out the truth and nothing but the truth without any pre-conceived notion. That has to be the objective".

B. Raman, in an op-ed published on 11 September, noted that "while it is too early to rule out the possibility of either Islamic or Hindu extremists as the perpetrators, there have been "attempts by some leaders of the Muslim community to create a divide between the community and the police by questioning the impartiality of the police and levelling other allegations against the investigating officers".

As of 30 October 2006, the most recent arrests involved members of the Students Islamic Movement of India and suspicions are presently directed at them as, after the arrests, the police have claimed to be closer to solving the case.

On 28 November 2006, Mumbai police stated that two Pakistani nationals were involved in the explosions. "We have successfully detected the Malegaon blasts case. We are, however, on the lookout for eight more suspects in the case," said DGP PS Pasricha. The Anti-Terrorism Squad probing into the case has already arrested eight suspects, including two booked in the 11 July Mumbai serial blasts, in connection with four explosions that rocked the town killing 31 people and injuring more than 200.

Three accused gave a confession about their involvement in the conspiracy, but soon after, two of them retracted before a magistrate, saying they had not made a voluntary disclosure. This was revealed to a special court by the accused themselves when they were produced before it for remand. The development assumes significance as under MCOCA, a confession does not have evidential value if it is not a voluntary and true disclosure.

Seeking their remand, public prosecutor Raja Thakre said the accused had played a vital role in the conspiracy and investigations conducted by Anti-Terrorist Squad so far had revealed involvement of more persons who are yet to be arrested.

On 16 November 2011, seven of the accused in the Malegaon blasts were released on bail after five years of detention in jail.

Case handover

In 2013, after taking over the case, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) contradicted the ATS and CBI findings, and arrested four persons, namely Lokesh Sharma, Dhan Singh, Manohar Singh and Rajendra Choudhary, all belonging to the Hindu right wing group Abhinav Bharat. On 22 May 2013 they were all chargesheeted.

On 25 April 2016, the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court dismissed all charges against the eight Muslim men initially arrested by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorist Squad in 2006. The men has spent five years in jail before being released on bail in 2011.

See also
 2007 Samjhauta Express bombings
 2008 Malegoan & Modasa bombing
 List of terrorist incidents, 2006
 Hindu nationalist terrorism

References

External links

 Thirty-five people killed in India blasts
 Blasts kill 37 in India graveyard
 38 killed in Malegaon blasts
 Pictures of the blast
 Voice of America news article
 BBC news article
 Aljazeera news article
 Google news link
 Allegations by Indian Muslim Newspaper of "Corpse with fake beard found"
 Malegaon blast: ATS says Purohit main conspirator - Express India
 7 accused in Malegaon case freed - Times Of India

21st-century mass murder in India
Mass murder in 2006
Improvised explosive device bombings in India
Terrorist incidents in India in 2006
History of Maharashtra (1947–present)
Crime in Maharashtra
Manmohan Singh administration
Malegaon
Hinduism-motivated violence in India
Anti-Muslim violence in India
September 2006 events in India
Hate crimes
Hindu terrorist incidents
Right-wing terrorist incidents