[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# PeaceMaker

nging", and holds a deep level of subtlety. He compares it to Balance of Power, a simulation of geopolitics during the Cold War, published by Chris Crawford in 1985. Adams claimed that while Balance of Power can be summarised as a zero-sum game, PeaceMaker is "a richer and more difficult challenge".

Eurogamer'''s Oliver Clare noted a few minor game design flaws, which he attributed to "Impact Games' inexperience with interface design". According to him, "the narrow theme" limits the replay value and appeal of the game. He stressed that the game shows no bias, and holds an "amazingly positive educational potential". Clare claimed he suffered viewing all the tragedies in the game, and that the first time he won the game, tears came to his eyes : "For a few poignant moments you get an inkling of what peaceful co-existence in the Middle East might actually feel like, what it might mean". Judy Siegel-Itzkovich from The Jerusalem Post had a similar opinion, stating that the game is "immersive" and that "learning the background of this endless dispute could be very educational". Her colleague Calev Ben-David was impressed by the graphics and texts. He also appreciated the winning condition: according to him, setting a time limit would have been unrealistic.

Critics agreed that the game model is relevant. Alexander Gambotto-Burke from The Guardian described it as "an astonishingly sophisticated simulation of the Israel/Palestine conflict". In a column published in July 2009, Steven Poole claimed that the game "provides a roughly accurate model of the political and security options on both sides of an actual conflict", and that it was rightly praised. Poole pointed out the game's most educational side is that the intentions of the player do not always lead to the expected outcome. According to him, PeaceMaker makes the player understand that "even people who do have power cannot control everything, and they, too, can be at the mercy of events". The Globe and Mail's Marc MacKinnon agreed, stating that "it gives players a feel for the impossibility of Mahmoud Abbas and Ehud Olmert's jobs".

In July 2007, PeaceMaker was the most sold second PC game of the week in North America on Amazon.com. The website mentioned a "suddenly high level of demand", that Asi Burak attributed to an interview at the National Public Radio the same month. As of February 2008, the game had sold  copies worldwide.

 Impact 
The rise of Internet allows alternative distribution channels, such as downloading freeware or through platforms such as Steam, and later Xbox Live Arcade, PlayStation Network or WiiWare. New mainstream developments tools, like Flash, allow a democratization of game production. These elements have given rise to new dynamics in the industry, such as fangame, independent game and serious game. This last category refers to games tackling serious issues like war, global warming or gerrymandering. In the 2000s, these games receive more coverage by both gaming and general press. They have however a bad reputation because of widely criticised gameplay and game design flaws.PeaceMaker has become a flagship of the serious game, and a major step for the acknowledgement of the genre. In 2006, it took the award in a competition organized by the University of Southern California, entitled "Reinventing public diplomacy through games". It won the " Best Transformation Game" award in 2007. This prize rewards "the best game which engages players on a deep and meaningful level around an important social issue, whose aims and outcomes are no less than to foster a powerful intellectual or behavioural transformation in it users". It is awarded by the association Games for Change, whose mission is to promote "games that engage contemporary social issues in meaningful ways to foster a more just, equitable and tolerant society". Suzanne Seggerman, co-founder of the association, stated in 2009 that just like Darfur is Dying, Food Force and Ayiti: The Cost of Life, PeaceMaker was just such a game, "having had an impact".PeaceMaker is described by its creators as "a video game to teach peace", and is primarily intended for Israeli and Palestinian students. In November 2007, the Peres Center for Peace funded the distribution of  copies in Israel and Palestine.  copies are sent to the subscribers of the Israeli daily  Haaretz,  to subscribers to the Palestinian daily Al-Quds. The remaining  are distributed in high-schools of both sides. This action is made in conjunction with the Annapolis conference, during which all parties agree on the two-state solution. Shortly after the Centre set up the "PeaceMaker Educational Program". It consists in using the game in Israeli and Palestinian schools, and to lead a supervised debate with the students. Over fifty workshops were held in 2008, involving  students from two states. This total amounts to  students in September 2009.