[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 218]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

it from their infancy; and in other places they are taught
otherwise?

But if Teaching be the cause of Faith, why doe not all beleeve? It is
certain therefore that Faith is the gift of God, and hee giveth it to
whom he will. Neverthelesse, because of them to whom he giveth it, he
giveth it by the means of Teachers, the immediate cause of Faith is
Hearing. In a School where many are taught, and some profit, others
profit not, the cause of learning in them that profit, is the Master;
yet it cannot be thence inferred, that learning is not the gift of God.
All good things proceed from God; yet cannot all that have them, say
they are Inspired; for that implies a gift supernaturall, and the
immediate hand of God; which he that pretends to, pretends to be a
Prophet, and is subject to the examination of the Church.

But whether men Know, or Beleeve, or Grant the Scriptures to be the Word
of God; if out of such places of them, as are without obscurity, I
shall shew what Articles of Faith are necessary, and onely necessary for
Salvation, those men must needs Know, Beleeve, or Grant the same.

The Onely Necessary Article Of Christian Faith, The (Unum Necessarium)
Onely Article of Faith, which the Scripture maketh simply Necessary to
Salvation, is this, that JESUS IS THE CHRIST. By the name of Christ, is
understood the King, which God had before promised by the Prophets of
the Old Testament, to send into the world, to reign (over the Jews,
and over such of other nations as should beleeve in him) under himself
eternally; and to give them that eternall life, which was lost by the
sin of Adam. Which when I have proved out of Scripture, I will further
shew when, and in what sense some other Articles may bee also called
Necessary.




Proved From The Scope Of The Evangelists

For Proof that the Beleef of this Article, Jesus Is The Christ, is all
the Faith required to Salvation, my first Argument shall bee from the
Scope of the Evangelists; which was by the description of the life of
our Saviour, to establish that one Article, Jesus Is The Christ. The
summe of St. Matthews Gospell is this, That Jesus was of the stock of
David; Born of a Virgin; which are the Marks of the true Christ: That
the Magi came to worship him as King of the Jews: That Herod for the
same cause sought to kill him: That John Baptist proclaimed him: That
he preached by himselfe, and his Apostles that he was that King; That
he taught the Law, not as a Scribe, but as a man of Authority: That he
cured diseases by his Word onely, and did many other Miracles, which
were foretold the Christ should doe: That he was saluted King when he
entered into Jerusalem: That he fore-warned them to beware of all others
that should pretend to be Christ: That he was taken, accused, and put
to death, for saying, hee was King: That the cause of his condemnation
written on the Crosse, was JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWES.
All which tend to no other end than this, that men should beleeve,
that Jesus Is The Christ. Such therefore was the Scope of St. Matthews
Gospel. But the Scope of all the Evangelists (as may appear by reading
them) was the same. Therefore the Scope of the whole Gospell, was the
establishing of that onely Article. And St. John expressely makes it his
conclusion, John 20. 31. "These things are written, that you may know
that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God."




From The Sermons Of The Apostles:

My second Argument is taken from the Subject of the Sermons of the
Apostles, both whilest our Saviour lived on earth, and after his
Ascension. The Apostles in our Saviours time were sent, Luke 9.2. to
Preach the Kingdome of God: For neither there, nor Mat. 10.7. giveth he
any Commission to them, other than this, "As ye go, Preach, saying, the
Kingdome of Heaven is at hand;" that is, that Jesus is the Messiah, the
Christ, the King which was to come. That their Preaching also after his
ascension was the same, is manifest out of Acts 17.6. "They drew (saith
St. Luke) Jason and certain Brethren unto the Rulers of the City,
crying, These that have turned the world upside down are come hither
also, whom Jason hath received. And these all do contrary to the Decrees
of Caesar, saying, that there is another King, one Jesus:" And out of
the 2.&3. verses of the same Chapter, where it is said, that St. Paul
"as his manner was, went in unto them; and three Sabbath dayes reasoned
with them out of the Scriptures; opening and alledging, that Christ must
needs have suffered, and risen againe from the dead, and that this Jesus
(whom he preached) is Christ."




From The Easinesse Of The Doctrine:

The third Argument is, from those places of Scripture, by which all the
Faith required to Salvation is declared to be Easie. For if an inward
assent of the mind to all the Doctrines concerning Christian Faith now
taught, (whereof the greatest part are disputed,) were necessary to