[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Raj Mukherji

Raj Mukherji is a State Assemblyman in the New Jersey Legislature, who was first elected in 2013 and represents the 33rd Legislative District. Since 2022, he serves in the Assembly as Deputy Speaker and formerly served as Majority Whip of the New Jersey General Assembly. He is also a lawyer, former healthcare and information technology CEO, former Deputy Mayor of Jersey City, former municipal prosecutor, and political science professor. Mukherji was reelected in 2015, 2017, 2019, and 2021, most recently by a 4-to-1 margin. In February 2022, following the adoption of a new 10-year legislative map by the New Jersey Legislative Apportionment Commission, Mukherji announced his candidacy for an open seat in the New Jersey Senate in a reconfigured 32nd Legislative District and was rapidly endorsed by local and statewide officials such as New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy and Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop. He is a former U.S. Marine Corps sergeant who enlisted two weeks following the September 11th terrorist attacks. Mukherji serves as Chairman of the Assembly Judiciary Committee and Vice Chairman of the Assembly Appropriations Committee. He previously served as Vice Chair of the Assembly Telecommunications and Utilities Committee.

Mukherji started multiple successful businesses before completing his teenage years and was sworn into his first public office at age 24.

At 28, Mukherji - as a running-mate of longtime State Senator Brian P. Stack - won a six-way Democratic primary election for the Assembly by a 36-point margin in 2013 and won the November general election by a 20-point margin, becoming the second South Asian legislator in state history (after Upendra J. Chivukula). In 2016 and 2017, Mukherji was identified by POLITICO as the most prolific lawmaker in the state because of his primary sponsorship of more bills signed into law than any other legislator.

The 33rd district includes the Hudson County municipalities of Hoboken, Jersey City, Union City and Weehawken. It is the most densely populated legislative district in the state. Mukherji's newly drawn 32nd legislative district, as of January 2024, will comprise Hoboken and Jersey City.

Early life, education, and career

Mukherji is the son of Indian American immigrants who arrived from Calcutta in 1970. According to news accounts, he supported himself through high school, college, and grad school as an emancipated minor when economic circumstances forced his parents to return to their native India. After suffering a pituitary tumor, stroke, and other ailments, Mukherji's father – an accountant and musician – could no longer work as a result of his health but could not afford health coverage without employment.

Labeled a "wunderkind" by the media, Mukherji was previously the CEO of an Internet consulting and software development company that he founded while in the sixth grade. Mukherji later sold the company to a federal contractor to enlist in the Marines two weeks after the September 11 attacks at age 17, where he served as a reservist in military intelligence. The young entrepreneur withdrew from high school at 15 to enroll in an early college program at Bard College at Simon's Rock, eventually earning his bachelor's degree from Thomas A. Edison State University. He also holds a master's from the University of Pennsylvania and a Juris Doctor, cum laude, from Seton Hall Law School, and he has performed on Broadway and in motion pictures, as a member of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG).

Mukherji cofounded and led as CEO companies that achieved an aggregate half billion dollars in enterprise value, spanning healthcare, information technology, medical cannabis, and real estate. At 19, he had cofounded a public affairs firm that he grew into the state's third largest lawyer-lobbying firm, reportedly through his ties to New Jersey Democratic establishments and the Obama administration. In 2011, he was named an annual "Legends" honoree by the Hudson County Chamber of Commerce.

Prior public service
At 24, Mukherji was appointed by the Mayor of Jersey City and confirmed by the City Council to replace Lori Serrano (who had been removed and was later charged with corruption) as the youngest Commissioner and Chairman to ever serve on the Jersey City Housing Authority, the state's second largest public housing authority and a $70 million agency serving over 16,000 residents and over 6,700 households. During Mukherji's tenure, the JCHA was applauded by HUD for attaining the highest score for Section 8 management among similar agencies in the state. The agency was also showered with federal grants and aid from the Obama administration, which dispatched then-U.S. Secretary of HUD Shaun Donovan to Jersey City on multiple occasions to announce tens of millions in competitive federal grants the agency had won.