[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Apt Pupil

fying Dussander as the man who he actually met, French confronts Todd, who responds by fatally shooting him. Todd's sanity breaks. He takes his rifle and ammunition to his hideout by the freeway and embarks on a shooting spree, resulting in his death at the hands of the authorities five hours later.

Connection to King's other works
 Kurt Dussander remembers using a "bank in the State of Maine" to purchase stocks under an assumed name. He goes on to say that the banker who bought them for Dussander went to jail for murdering his wife a year after he purchased them. He even references Andy Dufresne by name — he remembers the name because "it sounds a little like mine." Andy Dufresne is a central character in Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption, the novella preceding Apt Pupil in Different Seasons.
 When confronting Todd about his murders, Dussander mentions a serial killer named "Springheel Jack". This killer is the focus of "Strawberry Spring", a short story published in the King collection Night Shift (1978).
 The guidance counselor Ed French mentions his hotel room is number 217, the same as the famous Overlook Hotel room in The Shining. Furthermore, in The Shining, Jack Torrance is working on a play that includes a character named Denker, the same name as Dussander's alter ego. This has led some fans to speculate that Apt Pupil is Torrance's play. In the afterword to Different Seasons, King mentions having written Apt Pupil immediately after The Shining.

Adaptations
 In 1987, an attempt at an adaptation by Alan Bridges was started but never finished. It starred Ricky Schroder as the lead Todd Bowden, and Nicol Williamson as Kurt Dussander. It was stated that about 40 minutes were shot. Other sources have stated that 75% of the movie was shot. It was never finished due to loss of money. Once the necessary finances were collected to finish the movie, Schroder was deemed too old for the role, so the project was abandoned. King stated he saw the unfinished rough cut with the footage shot and thought it was "very good".
 In 1995, Chicago's Defiant Theatre staged a full-scale adaptation of the novella at the Preston Bradley Center in Chicago, IL. The novella was adapted and directed for the stage by Christopher Johnson. Veteran stage and film actor William J. Norris starred as Kurt Dussander.
 Sony Pictures released a film version of Apt Pupil in 1998. The film was directed by Bryan Singer. Brad Renfro stars as Todd Bowden and Ian McKellen stars as Dussander. The ending of the film is significantly different.
 The song "A Skeleton in the Closet" by the thrash metal band Anthrax is based on the novella.
 Funk supergroup Cameo frequently adds the lyric "Don't pull a Bowden" when performing the anti-violence song "Word Up".
 The Family Guy episode "German Guy" is a parody of the novella.

See also
 Stephen King short fiction bibliography

Notes

References
 Stephen King, Summer of Corruption: Apt Pupil (published in Different Seasons), Viking Press, U.S.A., 1982.

1980s novellas
Fiction set in 1974
American novellas
American novels adapted into films
Novellas by Stephen King
Novels set in the 1970s
Thriller short stories
Novels set in Los Angeles
Novels about Nazi fugitives
Novels about neo-Nazism