[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 38]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ping and
howling of a dog.

The minister, at the moment, was glorifying his Creator and his race at
the same time, by addressing Him as "Thou who hast given unto us, Thy
servants, dominion over the beasts of the field and over every living
thing, that they may serve us and minister unto us----"

Again, and more loudly, came the cry of distress.

"I must go and see what is the matter," exclaimed the Professor. At the
moment, the howling suddenly ceased, and he paused. The minister was
still appealing to his God for mercy. "Out of the deep have I cried unto
Thee, O Lord----," and then there was a general prayer, in which the
voices of the congregation joined. Some more singing and praying took
place, before the sound of a sudden rush and movement announced the
conclusion of the service.

"We had better go," said Miss Du Prel.

They had no more than time to leave the porch, before the doors burst
open, and the people streamed forth. A whiff of evil-smelling air issued
from the building, at the same time. The dog was howling more piteously
than ever. Someone complained of the disturbance that had been caused by
the creature's cries, during worship. The congregation continued to pour
out, dividing into little groups to discuss the sermon or something of
more mundane interest. An appearance of superhuman respectability
pervaded the whole body. The important people, some of whom had their
carriages waiting to drive them home, lingered a few moments, to
exchange greetings, and to discuss sporting prospects or achievements.
Meanwhile, one of the creatures over whom God had given them dominion,
was wailing in vain appeal.

"I can't stand this," cried the Professor, and he started off.

"I will come too," Hadria announced. Miss Du Prel said that she could
not endure the sight of suffering, and would await their return.

And then occurred the incident that made this afternoon memorable to
Hadria. In her last letter to her sister, she had said that she could
not imagine the Professor contemptuous or angry. She had reason now to
change her mind. His face was at once scornful and sad. For a moment,
Hadria thought that he was displeased with her.

"I sometimes feel," he said, with a scornful bitterness that she had not
suspected in him, "I sometimes feel that this precious humanity of ours
that we are eternally worshipping and exalting, is but a mean, miserable
thing, after all, not worth a moment's care or effort. One's sympathy is
wasted. Look at these good people whining to their heavenly Father about
their own hurts, craving for a pity of which they have not a spark
themselves!--puffed up with their little lordship over the poor beasts
that they do not hesitate to tear, and hurt, and torture, for their own
pleasure, or their own benefit,--to whom they, in their turn, love to
play the God. Cowards! And having used their Godhead for purposes of
cruelty, they fling themselves howling on their knees before their
Almighty Deity and beg for mercy, which He too knows how to refuse!"

"Thank heaven!" exclaimed Hadria. She drew a deep sigh of relief.
Without precisely realizing the fact, she had been gradually sinking
into an unformulated conviction that human beings are, at heart,
ruthless and hard, as soon as they are brought beyond the range of
familiar moral claims, which have to be respected on pain of popular
censure. Self-initiated pity was nowhere to be found. The merciless
coldness of many excellent people (kind and tender, perhaps, within
these accepted limits) had often chilled her to the heart, and prompted
a miserable doubt of the eventual victory of good over evil in the
world, which her father always insisted was ruled by mere brute force,
and would be so ruled to the end of time. She had tried to find a wider,
more generous, and less conventional standard in her oracle, Miss Du
Prel, but to her bitter disappointment, that lady had shrugged her
shoulders a little callously, as soon as she was asked to extend her
sympathy outside the circle of chartered candidates for her merciful
consideration. Hadria's hero-worship had suffered a severe rebuff. Now,
as the Professor spoke, it was as if a voice from heaven had bidden her
believe and hope fearlessly in her race, and in its destiny.

"I had almost come to shrink a little from people," she said, "as from
something cruel and savage, at heart, without a grain of real, untaught
pity."

"There is only just enough to swear by," said the Professor sadly. "We
are a lot of half-tamed savages, after all, but we may be thankful that
a capacity for almost infinite development is within us."

"I wish to heaven we could get on a little faster," exclaimed Hadria.

The incident proved, in the end, a fortunate one for the homeless, and
almost starving terrier, of plebeian lineage, whose wail of distress had
summoned two friends to the rescue. The creature had been ill-treated by
some boys, who