[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Proto-Ionians

w as the 31°N of Alexandria; stars which only skirt the southern horizon by a few degrees are not effectively visible. Assuming a Greek latitude would render Canopus and Fomalhaut invisible. Crommelin estimates the constellators at 2460 BC; R. A. Proctor has estimated 2170 BC. E. W. Maunder 2700 BC.

Faucounau's addition to this is the argument that Crete is also too far south, that the names of the constellations are (Ionic) Greek, not Minoan, and therefore that the constellation makers must be the proto-Ionians in the Cyclades. The south coast of Crete follows 35°N latitude; Syros, which he identifies as a center of proto-Ionian civilization, is at 37°20'. On this basis, he identifies the proto-Ionians with the archaeological Early Cycladic II culture: after all, they made round "frying pans," and one of them with an incised spiral, and the Phaistos Disc is round with an incised spiral.

His third argument depends on Herodotus's somewhat obscure use of the word Pelasgian for various peoples, Greek-speaking and otherwise, around the Aegean basin. Faucounau claims that the word, which he derives idiosyncratically from πελαγος, "sea", means the descendants of the proto-Ionians. Some of them lost their language because they settled among foreigners; others, such as the Athenians, preserved their language - Attic, apparently, arises from a mixture of proto-Ionian and other dialects. He does not explain why Homer speaks of Dodona, inland in north-western Greece, as Pelasgian (Il, 16,233); nor why no place in historic Ionia is called Pelasgian.

He adds to the above arguments with archaeological facts. For example, the Treaty of Alaksandu between Wilusa and the Hittite empire bore a Greek name at a time when there was no Mycenaean pottery at Troy. Faucounau considers that all these arguments are an indirect confirmation of his own decipherment claim of the Phaistos Disk as proto-Ionic.

Faucounau's "Proto-Ionic Disk Language" has most of the properties of Homeric Greek, including loss of labiovelars and even of digamma (both are preserved intact in the Mycenaean of the 14th century BC). Digamma, in Faucounau's reading of the Phaistos Disk, has in some instances passed to y, a sound shift not known from any other Greek dialect, but suspected in Ionic (e.g. Ion. païs v/etym. paus). For Faucounau, the Pelasgians, the Trojans, the Carians and the Philistines are all descended from the Proto-Ionians.

Faucounau's work on this subject has received two scholarly notices. Paul Faure, as below, writes warmly of many parts of the Proto-Ionian theory. He declines to address the decipherment, and omits the Celts; he also dates the Middle Cycladic culture only from 2700 BC, not 2900. Yves Duhoux expresses his disbelief in the decipherment, but does not mention the wider theory, except to deny that the Disc came from Syros. Faucounau's paper on the statistical problem of how many glyphs are likely to be omitted from a short text has never been cited. Most of it addresses the long-solved case in which the glyphs are equally likely.

See also
 Pelasgians
 Greek dialects
 Dorian invasion

References
 Jean Faucounau, Le déchiffrement du Disque de Phaistos, Paris 1999.
 Jean Faucounau, Les Proto-Ioniens : histoire d'un peuple oublié, Paris 2001. Esp. pp. 33ff, 35ff, 37f, p. 57, p. 61, p. 63 124.
 Review: Paul Faure, Revue des études grecques Vol. 15 (2002), p. 424f.
 Jean Faucounau, Les Peuples de la Mer et leur Histoire, Paris 2003.
 Jean Faucounau, Les Origines Grecques à l'Age de Bronze, Paris 2005.
 Vladimir Georgiev, "Mycénien et homérique: Le problème du digamma" in Proceedings of the Cambridge Colloquium on Mycenaean Studies, Cambridge 1966, p. 104-124.
 Vladimir Georgiev, "Le traitement des sonantes voyelles indo-européennes et le problème du caractère de la langue mycénienne" in Acta Mycenaea, Salamanca 1972, p. 361-379.
 Jonathan M. Hallm, Hellenicity: between ethnicity and culture. University of Chicago Press, 2002, , p. 39.
 George Hempl, Prehistoric Wanderings of the Hittite Greeks, in Mediterranean Studies, Vol III. Stanford University Press (1931), 
 Paul Kretschmer, Einleitung in die Geschichte der griechischen Sprache (1896).
 Pierre Lévêque, L'aventure grecque, p. 16-29.
 Michael W. Ovenden, The Origin of the Constellations in The Philosophical Journal 3 (1966), p. 1-18.
 A. C. D. Crommelin "The ancient Constellation Figures" in Hutchinson's Splendour of the Heavens London, 1923 Vol . II pp. 640–669.
 Cornelis J. Ruijgh, in Les Civilisations égéennes, René Treuil et al. edit, (Paris 1989), p. 401-423.
 Cornelis J. Ruijgh, Sur la position dialectale du Mycénien in Atti e Memorie del Secondo Congresso Internazionale di Micenologia (Roma 1996) p. 115-124.
 A. Thumb, E. Kieckers, Handbuch der griechischen Dialekte (1932).
 Liddell, Scott, Jones, A Greek–English Lexicon, s.v. πηδάω.
 National Geographic Atlas of the World (1992 ed.) p. 66.

External links
 Discussion by Faucounau of the "Risch-Chadwick Theory"