[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Elijah Boardman

build '', which still stands in New Milford. By this time, he had also opened a second shop outside of any partnership with his brothers, which was situated in Litchfield County and was designed by architect William Sprats, and on October 10, 1794, his first son, William Whiting Boardman, was born.

In September 1795, Boardman became a member of the Connecticut Land Company, and a purchaser of the Connecticut Western Reserve – now part of northern Ohio – which entitled Boardman and his associates to two townships located there, one of which being Medina. The  site set aside to create a county seat was originally named Mecca, until it was realised that a nearby town was named the same. Boardman's land agent, Rufus Ferris Sr., became the first resident of Medina, Together with his brothers, Boardman had thus became the owner of a "considerable" amount of real estate, among the post-Revolutionary War landed gentry "among the town's highest taxpayers."

Politics
Boardman's initial ventures into politics are recorded in a letter to then-President Thomas Jefferson on June 18, 1801. He included a sermon of the Rev. Stanley Griswold, of the New Milford church, which discussed the new president as "an example of how evil could be overcome by good." Jefferson subsequently replied with a detailed critique of the sermon.

Boardman became a member of the State House of Representatives for the period 1803–05 and again in 1816, before becoming a member of the State's upper house between 1817 and 1819, and a member of the State Senate between 1819 and 1821. On March 4, 1821, he was elected to the US Senate while living in Litchfield, Connecticut. He is listed by the Abridgment of the Debates of Congress, from 1789 to 1856 as having been present at Senate proceedings on December 3, 1821, in Washington DC in the company of Class-3 Connecticut senator James Lanman.

Later life and death

Boardman served in the Senate until his death during a visit to his son, whereupon he was succeeded by Henry W. Edwards. His cause of death is a subject of speculation, however biographer and son-in-law John Frederick Schroeder (m. Caroline Maria Boardman) related it while writing in 1849 to several bouts of cholera and fever Boardman had suffered throughout his life, particularly during a tour of Rhode Island in 1780, as well as other attacks in Vermont and New Hampshire throughout his life. Senator James Lanman proposed on December 5, 1823, a motion for the members of the Senate to wear "the usual mourning" for thirty days to commemorate his death. Boardman's body was returned home and interred in New Milford. He was survived by his first son, later politician William, and his second, Henry Mason Boardman. Mabel Thorp Boardman, American philanthropist, was his great-granddaughter.

See also
List of United States Congress members who died in office (1790–1899)

Notes

References

External links

 Elijah Boardman's Portrait by Ralph Earl at the Metropolitan Museum of Art

|-

1760 births
1823 deaths
18th-century American businesspeople
19th-century American businesspeople
American people of English descent
Businesspeople from Connecticut
Connecticut Democratic-Republicans
Connecticut Land Company
Connecticut militiamen in the American Revolution
Connecticut state senators
Democratic-Republican Party United States senators from Connecticut
Members of the Connecticut General Assembly Council of Assistants (1662–1818)
Military personnel from Connecticut
People from Boardman, Ohio
People from New Milford, Connecticut
People of colonial Connecticut
People of Connecticut in the American Revolution
United States senators who owned slaves