[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kīlauea Iki

inback had a higher rate of flow than the eruptions.

With every filling and draining of the lava lake, a 'black ledge' was formed along the rim of the crater which marked the level of the lava lake during each eruption episode. During lava drainbacks, a giant counter-clockwise whirlpool would form.

Magma mixing 
Samples collected from the first episode of the eruption were composed of two different kinds of magma. The first variant was identical to previous magmas erupted in the 1954 Kilauea caldera eruption and the second variant had a composition different from anything seen at previous eruptions, with a high ratio of CaO to MgO. Subsequent eruption episodes produced samples that were a mixture of the two variants plus some additional amount of olivine. The reason for two different magma compositions may be two magma storage areas beneath Kilauea Iki that had higher olivine concentrations at the bottom. At the beginning of the eruption, both magma sources provided material to the surface, while later eruption episodes at the single vent on the west side of the caldera contained a mixture of the two magmas. Additionally, the later eruption episodes were sourced from deeper sections of the magma chambers, resulting in higher concentrations of olivine.

Tourism 
Drivers may view Kīlauea Iki from either a lookout point or the trailhead parking lot.  Guests can hike across Kīlauea Iki by descending from Byron Ledge, which overlooks the crater. The trail crosses the floor of the crater, which once was a lake of lava.  Even after 50 years, the parts of the surface are still warm to the touch. Rainwater seeps into the cracks and makes contact with the extremely hot rock below and steam is emitted from various surface cracks.  The steam and some rocks are hot enough to cause serious burns.

References

External links
 Summit Eruption of Kīlauea Volcano, in Kīlauea Iki Crater
 US Department of Defense film of the 1959 volcano eruption of Kilauea Iki Crater
 

Kīlauea
1959 in the United States