[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hong Kong Strategic Route and Exit Number System

The Hong Kong Strategic Route and Exit Number System () is a system adopted by the Transport Department of the Hong Kong Government to organise the major roads in the territory into routes 1 to 10 for the convenience of drivers. When the system was implemented in 2004, the government promoted it with a major public campaign, including the slogan "Remember the Numbers; Make Driving Easier" ().

The system comprises ten major series of roads in Hong Kong, numbered routes 1 to 10, which can be classified into three categories: the three north-south routes, the six east-west routes and the New Territories Circular Road. The route numbers are displayed as black on yellow "road-shields" on overhead road signs.

Parts of the road system are limited-access roads, and a significant portion of these roads are expressways. The system also utilises exit numbering with the exits of each route are numbered sequentially; some exit numbers are suffixed with a letter. Exit numbers are indicated by white-in-black rectangular boxes on overhead and roadside signs.

Features

There are no traffic lights on the expressways. Traffic interchange with other roads is entirely via slip roads, maximising vehicular flow and land space usage. There are some stack interchanges.

The Strategic Route System has traffic lights on only a few roads, such as Waterloo Road (Route 1) and Kwun Tong Road (Route 7).

The road surface is asphalt. The lanes are separated by white dashed lines, while unbroken white lines are used to mark the edges of the median and shoulder. The shoulder is reserved for stops due to breakdowns and emergencies, and motorists are prohibited by law from travelling on it. Lanes are numbered from right to left, with lane 1 being the closest to the median. Crash barriers, cat's eyes and rumble strips are also used to ensure road safety. Signs mark the start and end of an expressway at its entry and exit points respectively. These expressways do not have rest areas.

The speed limits for most vehicles (see the paragraph below for exceptions) on the Hong Kong highways are 110 km/h for North Lantau Highway, 100 km/h for the New Territories roads and West Kowloon Highway, 80 km/h for the most expressways and 70 km/h, due to the older ones such as Island Eastern Corridor, East Kowloon Corridor, West Kowloon Corridor and Tsuen Wan Road. A speeding offence less than 10 km/h over the speed limit is not usually enforced. Subsequently, many drivers in Hong Kong drive at a speed that is 5-10 km/h more than the speed limit. If drivers are travelling at a speed of 15 km/h more than the speed limit, speed limit enforcement cameras will be activated and drivers may receive a fine. 

As stipulated by the Laws of Hong Kong Cap 374 s 40 (5) and (5A), medium goods vehicles, heavy goods vehicles and buses or any vehicle driven by a driver with a probationary driving licence shall travel no faster than the speed limit of the road or 70 km/h, whichever is slower; while minibuses shall travel no faster than the speed limit of the road or 80 km/h, whichever is slower. Many vehicles of these types actually ignore this and simply follow the speed limit of the road on the Hong Kong highways, thereby committing speeding offence. However, this law is not usually enforced – cameras are not tuned to be triggered differently by these types of vehicle.

Route number system

The three north-south routes are Route 1, Route 2, and Route 3. They connect Hong Kong Island, metro Kowloon and the New Territories via a series of flyovers and tunnels. They pass through the three tunnels crossing Victoria Harbour, and their sequence of numbering follows the order of opening dates of the three tunnels:

Route 1: Cross-Harbour Tunnel (opened 1972)
Route 2: Eastern Harbour Crossing (opened 1989; formerly Route 6)
Route 3: Western Harbour Crossing (opened 1997)

The five east-west routes — Route 4, Route 5, Route 6, Route 7, Route 8 and Route 10 — are numbered from south to north. Route 4 runs along the north shore of Hong Kong Island, connecting the eastern and western ends of the island, whereas Routes 5, 6 and 7 link southern New Territories with parts of Kowloon. Route 8 provides direct access to Chek Lap Kok Airport, and was extended to Sha Tin in 2008. Route 10 provides access to the border crossing at Shekou, Shenzhen.

Route 4: formerly Routes 7 and 8 (opened 1990)
Route 5: formerly Tsuen Wan – Ngau Tau Kok section of Route 2 (opened 1970-1980s)
Route 6: comprises the Central Kowloon Route, Trunk Road T2, Cha Kwo Ling Tunnel  (under construction) and the Tseung Kwan O-Lam Tin Tunnel (partially completed as of 2022)
Route 7: formerly Route 4 (opened 1970s)
Route 8: formerly Route 9 (Tsing Yi – Airport section opened 1997; Tsing Yi – Cheung Sha Wan section opened December 2009; Cheung Sha Wan – Sha Tin section opened 2008)
Route 10 (opened 2007)