[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tamara (2005 film)

ne as Roger
 Gil Hacohen as Patrick
 Chris Sigurdson as Mr. Riley, Tamara's Father

Reception

Box office
Tamara was released to US cinemas on February 3, 2006. It averaged $2,084 at 14 theatres, for a weekend gross of $29,157. It was in US cinemas for 13 weeks, and finished with a gross of $206,871

Critical reception
Tamara has received a mostly negative response from critics. Aggregated across 28 reviewers, the film holds a 32% on Rotten Tomatoes, with a consensus stating, "Resolutely misguided without ever really crossing into 'so bad it's good' territory, Tamara lacks even the cheap thrills promised by its premise". This reception is mirrored on Metacritic, where a similar result of 34/100, amortized over 10 critics, materialized, indicating "Generally unfavorable reviews."

Nathan Lee of The New York Times noted its low budget and its "even lower ambitions", but acknowledged that it had "one genuine, if unintentional, surprise." Awarding it one of four stars, Slant grappled with the film's "insufficient imaginativeness" and forced "theme of duality." Maitland McDonagh, a critic specialist in horror films, wrote that Tamara "panders to horror buffs" and "squanders the efforts of a competent cast", calling it a "rehash of Carrie", and awarding it two of five stars. Jessica Reeves of the Chicago Tribune was even more critical, panning the film with a harsh grocery list of descriptions: "dismal, depressing, embarrassing and utterly lacking in any artistic or social worth".

Some reviewers were slightly more magnanimous. For instance, Kyle Smith of the New York Post enjoyed the second act, praising how screenwriter Jeffrey Reddick "develops [the film] suspensefully." He noted some of the "creative murders", which were "grotesque" enough to "make even horror buffs flinch"; however, he decried the clichéd final act, complaining that Tamara is off-screen too much, and asserting that "villainy shouldn't be outsourced", "killings [shouldn't] become routine."

Likewise, Frank Scheck, writing for The Hollywood Reporter, provided a mixed review and confessed that "the film has its dubious pleasures".

References

External links

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2005 films
2005 horror films
2000s American films
2000s Canadian films
2000s English-language films
2000s high school films
2000s supernatural horror films
2000s teen horror films
American films about revenge
American high school films
American supernatural horror films
American teen horror films
Canadian films about revenge
Canadian high school films
Canadian supernatural horror films
English-language Canadian films
Films about pranks
Films about school bullying
Films about teenagers
Films about witchcraft
Films scored by Michael Suby
Films set in Illinois
Films shot in Winnipeg
Lionsgate films