[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Culture during the Cold War

infiltrate the Soviet Union.
 Russkies (1987) – A movie about a shipwrecked Soviet Navy sailor who washes ashore in Key West, Florida and is befriended by three American boys.
 Project X (1987) – A film starring Matthew Broderick where a US airman works with chimpanzees on Cold War-related projects.

Television
 Airwolf
 Danger Man, (Known as Secret Agent in the United States)
 I Led Three Lives – The first foray into mass culture dealing with the Cold War.
 I Spy (1965–68 US television series)
 Get Smart
 MacGyver
 The Man from U.N.C.L.E.
 Mission: Impossible
 Quatermass II
 Several episodes of Star Trek featured a futuristic version of the Cold War, in terms of the United Federation of Planets vs. The Klingon Empire and the Romulan Star Empire, analogs for the United States, the Soviet Union, and the People's Republic of China, respectively. "A Taste of Armageddon" also showed the concept of MAD in a war between opposing sides.
 Scarecrow and Mrs. King
 Ivan the Terrible 1976 sitcom
 The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show 1960s cartoon for children and adults where the villains are Boris and Natasha, who were both parodies of the soviets.
 The Sandbaggers
 The Twilight Zone, a number of episodes of which depicted fallout shelters, such as the 1961 episode, The Shelter, produced as a social commentary on the Civil Defense push during the Berlin Crisis of 1961, and the 1987 Ronald Reagan era "Shelter Skelter". Twilight Zone episodes commenting on other aspects of the Cold War, and World Peace include the 1986 A Small Talent for War.
 The Transformers (TV series), including the fact that the two first seasons take place during the latter years of the Cold War, an episode, Prime Target directly refers to an event of the episode as The highest point of tension between United States and Soviet Union, since the Cuban Missile Crisis.

Television commercials
Wendy's Hamburger Chain ran a television commercial showing a supposed "Soviet Fashion Show", which featured the same large, unattractive woman wearing the same dowdy outfit in a variety of situations, the only difference being the accessory she carried (for example, a flashlight for 'nightwear' or a beach ball for 'swimwear'). This was supposedly a lampoon on how the Soviet society is characterised with uniformity and standardisation, in contrast to the US characterised with freedom of choice, as highlighted in the Wendy's commercial.

Apple Computer's "1984" ad, despite paying homage to George Orwell's novel of the same name, follows a more serious yet ambitious take on the freedom vs. totalitarianism theme evident between the US and Soviet societies at the time.

Political commercials

Daisies and mushroom clouds

Daisy was the most famous campaign commercial of the Cold War. Aired only once, on 7 September 1964, it was a factor in Lyndon B. Johnson's defeat of Barry Goldwater in the 1964 presidential election. The contents of the commercial were controversial, and their emotional impact was searing.

The commercial opens with a very young girl standing in a meadow with chirping birds, slowly counting the petals of a daisy as she picks them one by one. Her sweet innocence, along with mistakes in her counting, endear her to the viewer. When she reaches "9", an ominous-sounding male voice is suddenly heard intoning the countdown of a rocket launch. As the girl's eyes turn toward something she sees in the sky, the camera zooms in until one of her pupils fills the screen, blacking it out. The countdown reaches zero, and the blackness is instantly replaced by a simultaneous bright flash and thunderous sound which is then followed by footage of a nuclear explosion, an explosion similar in appearance to the near surface burst Trinity test of 1945, followed by another cut to footage of a billowing mushroom cloud.

As the fireball ascends, an edit cut is made, this time to a close-up section of incandescence in the mushroom cloud, over which a voiceover from Johnson is played, which states emphatically, "These are the stakes! To make a world in which all of God's children can live, or to go into the dark. We must either love each other, or we must die." Another voiceover then says, "Vote for President Johnson on November 3. The stakes are too high for you to stay home." (Two months later, Johnson won the election in an electoral landslide.)

Bear in the woods
Bear in the woods was a 1984 campaign advertisement endorsing Ronald Reagan for President that depicted a brown bear (likely symbolizing the Soviet Union) wandering through the woods. Despite the fact that the ad never explicitly mentioned the Soviet Union, the Cold War or Walter Mondale, it thematically suggested that Reagan was more capable of dealing with the Soviets than his opponent.

Humor