[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Andrew J. Duck

c. Issues," and "Real Estate". OpenSecrets.org describes Duck's biggest sources of funding as including "Industrial Unions", "Lawyers/Law Firms", "Retired", "Misc Issues", "Leadership PACs" and "Real Estate", and describes more of his funding as coming from "Labor" rather than "Ideological' sources.

The Washington Times stated that Maryland's 6th district is the state's most reliably Republican and that Duck was not regarded as a serious threat to the incumbent.

Duck lost the election to Bartlett on November 7, 2006. He received 39% of the vote, while Bartlett received 59%.

2008 campaign 
Duck announced that he would challenge Congressman Bartlett again in 2008.

Duck was defeated in the Potomac Primary on February 12, 2008, by former Frederick mayor Jennifer Dougherty with 44% to Duck's 37%, the remaining votes split between three other candidates. Dougherty went on to lose in the general election to incumbent Republican Roscoe Bartlett.

2010 campaign 
Duck challenged Congressman Bartlett in the 2010 election. He defeated former TV newsman Casey Clark, in the Democratic Primary. While Duck did not succeed in defeating Bartlett in the election, his efforts increased registered Democrats in the district by 9%. This effort lead to the district to go from a Republican leaning district, into a Democratic leaning district. He was then succeeded by John Delaney in 2012.

2018 campaign 
Duck ran as a Democrat for the Maryland 6th congressional district race in 2018. He was one of six potential candidates.

Duck filed to run for Congress on June, 8th 2017 He has stated he decided to run after the election of Donald J. Trump. Since the election of Trump, he has been active in various local events and movements.

Love Trumps Hate Rally 
After the 2016 Election, Duck had seen various individuals in his local area shocked at the turn of the events. Spurned by the vitriol and rhetoric given by President-Elect Trump during the campaign, Duck sought to give comfort to those still reeling from the election. He created a gathering in Baker Park in downtown Frederick, MD. Over 200 people had attended the event, and on short notice.

Frederick Cares 

After the Love Trumps Hate Rally in Bakers Park, Duck sought to keep the message of caring for our community going with the people. Doing this, he helped found Frederick Cares. The organization continues to work, trying to enact positive social change in the Frederick County area and beyond. This organization has been active in not only reaching out to under represented minority groups, but as well as reaching across the aisle to conservative voters. They provided buses to the Women's March in DC in 2017. Andrew assisted in getting people to the march and organizing buses to take them there.

Our Revolution Western Maryland 

Duck was an organizer for Our Revolution Western Maryland. He has worked hard for advocacy after the 2016 Presidential election, and continues to be active in the organization. Our Revolution Western Maryland has now reached out into the area, and has even brought in speakers such as candidate for Governor Ben Jealous, and author Nina Turner.

Speeches 

Duck has been active in the area, often giving speeches at events to encourage discourse and to motivate voters to action. He was active in the No Potomac Pipeline in Hancock, Maryland. He testified to the MDE panel, highlighting its effects and stated ”This pipeline has no permanent benefit to the state of Maryland.”

Duck also marched in a local Women's March in Cumberland, Maryland. During that march, he marched with several women, and spoke directly to the crowd to encourage voter turn out. “We have people here from all walks of life and all political stripes who are tired of the division and hatred that we see in our system today,” said Duck. “We may have differences of opinion but it doesn’t mean we can’t talk to each other.  We have been taking action to show that love is greater than hate, caring is greater than divisions. We need to show that compassion is an American value.” Duck continues to encourage dialogue and compassion into the community.

Duck, Director of Operations of a Green Energy company called Avertica has often spoken out about Climate Change and renewable energy. He marched in a Climate Change March in Cumberland, Maryland. Citing his experience at Avertica, he has pushed for expansion of more green energy, and the growth of jobs in the new energy markets that will come.

See also

References

Bibliography

External links 
 

1962 births
Living people
United States Army officers
United States Army personnel of the Iraq War
People from Brunswick, Maryland
University of Oklahoma alumni
Texas State University alumni
Maryland Democrats
Candidates in the 2006 United States elections
Candidates in the 2010 United States elections
21st-century American politicians