[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Belanova

Belanova is a Mexican pop band that formed in the city of Guadalajara, Jalisco, in 2000. The group consisted of Denisse Guerrero (lead vocals), Edgar Huerta (keyboards, programming) and Ricardo "Richie" Arreola (bass, guitar). Although these are the only three official members, several other musicians performed in the band's live lineup, most notably Israel "Campanita" Ulloa (drums) and Richo Acosta (guitar). The band was signed to Virus Records, owned by Universal Music, in 2002.

History

Early years & Cocktail (2000–2004)

All three members of the band had a passion for music since childhood. Richie, from Guadalajara, developed his interest in music out of an admiration for The Beatles member Paul McCartney as a child. Edgar, also from Guadalajara, first became interested in music when his brother received a little keyboard as a Christmas present, showing little interest in it, and so Edgar simply began playing it one day. Denisse, originally from Los Mochis, Sinaloa, enjoyed singing since she was a child, and was previously a member of the band 40 Grados, literally "40 Degrees (Celsius)." The trio met in Guadalajara at a bar where both Edgar and Denisse were working.

Their first album was titled Cocktail and was released in 2003. The first single off the album was "Tus Ojos", which gained popularity due to its inclusion in a Mitsubishi publicity campaign, just after the Japanese car maker's arrival in Mexico. The song reached number one on the Mexican Top 100 and stayed there for 3 consecutive weeks. The album reached number five on the Mexican Albums Chart and was certified Gold; consequently, the album was named one of the Top Five albums of 2003 by Rolling Stone Mexico.

Apart from "Tus Ojos", the album also spawned two more top-twenty hits, "Suele Pasar" and "Y Aún Así Te Vas".

The band spent 2003 and 2004 on a 100-Concert Tour around Mexico promoting the album. Following Cocktail'''s success, management at Universal Music Mexico company encouraged the band to adopt a more commercial sound. Belanova flew to Argentina to record their second album, moving from electronic music to electropop, and the band was moved from the company's dance-music branch, Virus Records, to the larger one, Universal.

Dulce Beat & commercial success (2005–2007)
In 2005, Belanova released their second album, Dulce Beat, which gained popularity in the Latin American music market thanks largely to television stations such as MTV. The album was released on June 21, 2005, in Mexico, reaching the number one spot and holding the spot for four non-consecutive weeks. The album went on to sell over 200,000 copies in Mexico alone.
The first single was "Me Pregunto", with a sound similar to that of Cocktail. The single was followed soon after by "Por Ti", much more grounded in pop music. Both songs reached number one in Mexico. "Rosa Pastel" was released in July 2006 as the third single. The fourth single, "Niño", was used in promotions for Pizza Hut Mexico. The huge success of the album prompted Disney's Latin American branch to ask the band to record a Spanish version of the song "What I've Been Looking For" ("Eres Tú") for the Latin American release of the High School Musical Soundtrack.

The album was very successful in Latin America, with sales of over 500,000. This led to the release of the band's first live album, "Dulce Beat Live", which went Gold in Mexico only few hours after it was released. The album includes a set of 16 songs performed live at the Foro Expo in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico on March 10, 2006. A deluxe edition of Dulce Beat, featuring several acoustic versions of songs from Belanova's first two albums and a new vocal recording of "Te Quedas o Te Vas", was also released, titled Dulce Beat 2.0.
Belanova's video "Por Ti" broke the record for the most weeks on MTV Mexico's Top 20, peaking at number one for twenty-nine weeks. When the album was released in the United States in the spring of 2006, it hit number fifty-nine on Billboard's Top Latin Albums Chart and reached the top ten on the Top Electronic Albums Chart. The band earned a Latin Grammy Nomination for "Mejor Álbum Vocal Pop Dúo o Grupo" ("Best Pop Vocal Album by a Group or Duo"), but lost to La Oreja de Van Gogh. Belanova became the most nominated Mexican Act on the 2006's MTV Video Music Awards Latin America, despite only winning "Mejor Artista Norte" ("Best Northern Artist").