[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Monarchy in Quebec

eutenant governor. But, the proposal was not accepted. Legault was asked in September 2022 whether the province should eliminate the office of the lieutenant governor. Legault expressed his awareness of  calls to "replace" the lieutenant governor before noting the matter was not a priority.

History

Pre-colonial
Aboriginal groups in what is today Quebec were considered by Europeans to belong to kingdoms—such as along the north shore of the St. Lawrence River, between the Trinity River and the Isle-aux-Coudres, and the neighbouring kingdom of Canada, which stretched west to the Island of Montreal—and the leaders of these communities, particularly those chosen through heredity, were referred to as kings.

The first French colonies

The monarchy that exists in Quebec today can trace its ancestral lineage back to the claims of King Henry VII in 1497 and King Francis I in 1534; both being blood relatives of the current Canadian monarch. While the first French colonies in North America were established at Acadia (today Nova Scotia) and Port Royal, French explorers thereafter exanded the King's territory inland and, in 1541, Jean-François Roberval was appointed as Viceroy of Canada, to represent King Henry IV. In 1608, Quebec City was founded and, seven years later, it was, on the recommendation of its founder, Samuel de Champlain, designated as a royal capital of the French empire in the Americas; Place Royale is named for the King. Champlain was installed in 1627 as the representative of the King in New France, making him the first in an unbroken line of viceroys ending at the incumbent governor general of Canada today.

Champlain surrendered on 16 July 1629 to the English privateer and friend of King Charles I, David Kirke, as, at the time, the population of New France was on the brink of starvation and neither man was aware that peace had already been reached between France, Scotland, and England in the Thirty Years' War. Upon learning that hostilities had ceased before Quebec's capture, Champlain argued that Kirke's seizure had been unlawful and, in 1632, Charles I agreed to return New France in exchange for King Louis XIII paying the dowry of Charles' wife, Queen Henrietta, which was specifically included in the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. As a consolation, Kirke was knighted by Charles the following year.

Some six decades later, New France was designated by King Louis XIV as a royal province of France itself, ruled by the King through his appointed Conseil souverain, which included the governor general as the monarch's stand-in. One of the king's decrees, intended to augment, as well as level the gender imbalance of, the population of New France in the 1660s, was to send between seven and nine hundred women, known as the filles du roi (Daughters of the King), to the province, each with dowry, new clothing, and paid passage to the New World. As the population increased, infrastructure was built, such as the Chemin du Roi (King's Highway), between Montreal and Quebec City, and the Cathedral-Basilica of Notre-Dame de Québec, in the welfare of which the King took great interest. This type of French royal patronage extended through the 18th century; for example, from 1713 until 1758, Île-Royale was a project of King Louis XIV and King Louis XV, much of the financing for infrastructure—some 20 million livres—being provided by the monarchs (their names therefore appearing on such works).

Transfer to the British Crown

In the negotiations forming the Treaty of Paris in 1763, France relinquished New France in favour of its territory of Guadeloupe; King Louis XV found defence of the Canadian territory to be too much of a burden. It was with the signing of the treaty that the area that is today Quebec moved from under the sovereignty of the French Crown to that of the British Crown. However, King George III had previously allowed Catholicism within the laws of Great Britain and the Test Acts, which blocked Cathloics from governmental, judicial, and bureaucratic appointments, were relaxed in Quebec. Still, George faced the challenge of  persuading his French Catholic subjects to follow an English Protestant king.