[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Minnesota National Guard

and 22 months overall, the Red Bulls are recognized as having served the second longest tour of duty in Iraq of any military unit, active or reserve.

The Duluth-based 148th Fighter Wing expertly provided real-time surveillance for ground commanders using their Theater Aerial Reconnaissance System.

St. Paul’s 34th Combat Aviation Brigade was responsible for corps-level helicopter support from 2008 to 2009.

In 2009-2010, the 34th Red Bull Infantry Division Headquarters provided command and control for 16,000 U.S. military Service members operating in nine of Iraq’s 18 provinces.

With the prevalence of improvised explosive devices on the roadways in Iraq, the St. Paul-based 133rd Airlift Wing provided critical aerial transportation of people, equipment and materiel throughout the region.

In 2011, the 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team, 34th Infantry Division mission in Kuwait was the largest deployment of Minnesota Guardsmen since World War II. The brigade's mission included base management, convoy security, reaction forces, and management of specialized units from the Army, Navy and Coast Guard. The brigade drove 1.35 million miles and escorted 25,970 trucks during 480 missions prior to the last U.S. military convoy departing Iraq.

2012-2019

2020–present

George Floyd protests (2020) 

In mid 2020, the Minnesota National Guard was mobilized in full in response to the George Floyd protests in Minneapolis–Saint Paul. However, the Minnesota National Guard delayed its arrival to areas were unrest was occurring and afterwards received criticism for "lagging" in its response to the riots. After being activated, Minnesota National Guard adjutant general Maj. Gen. Jon A. Jensen claimed he and other guardsman were not provided clear directions by Minnesota Governor Tim Walz on how to respond to the protests and riots. It was noted that no Minnesota National Guardsmen were present during the May 29, 2020 riot which destroyed numerous businesses in Minneapolis and did not clear streets until the next day.

The Minnesota National Guard conducted a security mission alongside local law enforcement as street protests turned violent over the murder of George Floyd. A soldier from the Minnesota National Guard fired his weapon at a vehicle that was speeding towards police officers and National Guard soldiers in Minneapolis. The driver of the vehicle was given several verbal commands, and nonverbal signals in an attempt to slow the driver down. After the driver refused to stop, a soldier fired 3 rounds towards the speeding vehicle. Minnesota National Guard Major General Jon Jensen said "Our soldier fired 3 rounds from his rifle in response to a perceived and legitimate threat to him and the Minnesota police officers he was in direct support of."

By June 7, when the troops demobilized, 7,123 members of the Minnesota National Guard into duty in the largest deployment in the state's history since World War II.

Trial of Derek Chauvin and Daunte Wright protests (2021) 
In early 2021, the Minnesota National Guard was proactively mobilized for protests in Minneapolis regarding the trial of Derek Chauvin that began in March and concurrently responded to protests and unrest over the police-involved killing of Daunte Wright on April 11. Two National Guard soldiers sustained minor injuries after being shot at while sitting in a military vehicle. The two soldiers suffered injuries that included glass fragments in an eye and facial cuts caused by the shattering glass. One soldier was transported to a hospital for treatment. Hennepin County officials charged Andrew Thomas, a 28-year-old man with home address in Minneapolis and Chicago, with first-degree and second-degree assault with a dangerous weapon and illegal weapons possession. In July 2021, Thomas pleaded guilty in Hennepin County court to charges related to the drive-by shooting and illegal possession of a firearm. He received an eight-year sentence that included five years in jail and three years under supervised release.

Adjutants General
List of Adjutants General in Minnesota:

See also
 Minnesota Naval Militia
 Minnesota State Guard
 Minnesota Wing Civil Air Patrol

References

External links

 Camp Cody - Minnesota National Guard WW1
 Bibliography of Minnesota Army National Guard History compiled by the United States Army Center of Military History
 GlobalSecurity.org

 
National Guard (United States)
Military in Minnesota