[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Censorship in Pakistan

rally to free Kashmir from Pakistani rule. As a result of the police trying to stop the rally, 100 people were injured.
In 2023, PEMRA directed news channels to refrain from reporting on people who propagate hate speech, a move that was widely understood to prevent them from reporting on Imran Khan.

Film
On April 27, 2016 Maalik (Urdu: مالک) became the first Pakistani film to be banned by the federal government after being cleared with Universal rating by all three Censor Boards and running in cinemas for 18 days. Maalik is a 2016 Pakistani political thriller film made by Ashir Azeem. The film was released on 8 April 2016 in cinemas across Pakistan. میں پاکستان کا شہری پاکستان کا مالک ھوں, the film extols the principle of government of the people, by the people and for the people. Maalik is the desire of a common Pakistani for freedom, democracy and justice in a country that has been hijacked by the feudal elites after the departure of the British from the subcontinent and who continues to rule and mismanage an impoverished nation, while amassing huge personal fortunes for themselves.

Although the film was banned in Pakistan by the federal government on April 27, 2016 for endangering democracy, its ban was later lifted and the film was re-released on limited screenings in Karachi, Lahore, and Islamabad.

Internet

The OpenNet Initiative listed Internet filtering in Pakistan as substantial in the social and conflict/security areas, as selective in the Internet tools area, and as suspected in the political area in December 2010.

In late 2010 Pakistanis enjoyed generally unimpeded access to most sexual, political, social, and religious content on the Internet. Although the Pakistani government does not employ a sophisticated blocking system, a limitation which has led to collateral blocks on entire domains such as Blogspot.com and YouTube.com, it continues to block websites containing content it considers to be blasphemous, anti-Islamic, or threatening to internal security. Pakistan has blocked access to websites critical of the government or the military.

In 2019, The National Assembly Standing Committee on Information Technology and Telecom was informed by Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) that 900,000 URLs were blocked in Pakistan for "reasons such as carrying blasphemous and pornographic content and/or sentiments against the state, judiciary or the armed forces."

Maps of Kashmir/Junagadh
In 2022, the Pakistani government will propose to criminalise questions related to the sovereign territorial integrity of the frontiers of Pakistan in a manner that is, or should likely to be, prejudicial to the interests of the safety or security concerns of Pakistanis. Pakistan’s PTI government will require that all maps in publications circulated in Pakistan reflect the traditional claim to the entire region of Indian administered Jammu and Kashmir, which is disputed and contested by Islamabad, and regardless of the line of control respectively. Pakistan's government has maintained its territorial claim on Junagadh, along with Manavadar and Sir Creek in Gujarat, on its official political map issued on 4 August 2020. According to the Surveying and Mapping Act.

SMS
The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority required telecoms to filter Short Message Service (text messaging) for more than 1,000 offensive keywords from 21 November 2011. An unconfirmed list was leaked online and some of the innocuous keywords on the list was subjected to ridicule by Pakistanis.

See also 
 Constitution of Pakistan
 Freedom of speech in Pakistan
 Freedom of the press in Pakistan
 Human rights in Pakistan
 Internet Censorship in Pakistan
 Internet in Pakistan
 Media in Pakistan
 Pakistan Telecommunication Authority
 Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority

References

External links
 World Press Freedom Day 2011 honoring Pakistani journalists who were killed between May 2010 - May 2011 YouTube
"Censorship in Pakistani Urdu Textbooks", Ajmal Kamal, The Annual of Urdu Studies, Vol.10 (1995), pp. 125–133, Center for South Asia, University of Wisconsin, Madison
Karachi Union of Journalists, website
'Extreme fear and self-censorship': media freedom under threat in Pakistan The Guardian, 2019

 
Mass media in Pakistan