[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rama Yade

believes that this ban should be decided "as a defense of secularism and the dignity of women" and calls on Muslims to "leave the literal text behind, and adjust to the times". In 2010, she called for a referendum on banning the full veil burqas in France, in order to circumvent any legal obstacles.

LGBT rights 
As Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Human Rights of France, Yade met with several LGBT organizations on the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia in 2008 and announced to the organizations that henceforth the government officially recognized that day. She announced that she would appeal to the United Nations for the universal decriminalization of homosexuality, and asked, "How can we tolerate the fact that people are stoned, hanged, decapitated and tortured only because of their sexual orientation?" When asked about the issue of same-sex marriage in 2009, she replied that it was not up to her to settle the question for society.

When she became Secretary of State for Sports, she fought against homophobia in sports and participated in the third FARE Conference Against Homophobia in Paris in 2011.

In a June 2011 interview she said she would have voted for same-sex marriage if she had been in the National Assembly. In a 2012 interview with Le Parisien, she said, "To societal issues like this or gay marriage, it is legitimate to propose a referendum. We'll see if the left will have the courage to give voice to the people." She said in 2013 interview that her support for same-sex marriage was consistent with her fight on equal rights and claimed that she had been designated as the most gay-friendly member of the government. On 1 February Rama Yade had signed with MP Yves Jégo, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, Senator Chantal Jouanno, an article in Le Monde in favor of gay marriage in the name of equality.

Foreign vote 
When asked about the issue of foreign vote, Yade said it should be left to a referendum and said she was against it and said "Foreigners do not claim the right to vote. What they want is their children who are French, are elected to the Assembly, are well represented in the political, economic spheres media. In short, they are integrated. Now this is the bad conscience of the left for thirty years."

Syrian Civil War 
On the issue of the civil war in Syria, she said France must act and use the military option because the Syrians requested it.

Taxes 
On the issue of taxes, Yade has said "We're losing the rich, like Gérard Depardieu, and the poor feel betrayed," referring to workers at factories expected to close down. "France is the one getting weakened, and its future is being sold off cheaply," she said.

Convictions 
In April 2013, Yade was convicted for libeling and slandering Manuel Aeschlimann.

In September 2013, Yade was sentenced to pay a 2000 euro fine and 4000 euros in damages for libeling her political rival Philippe Sarre.

In January 2014, Yade was again convicted for slandering Jean-Marie Le Pen and his daughter Marine Le Pen.

Personal life
Yade is married to Joseph Zimet, the son of Yiddish singer Ben Zimet, and an adviser to former Secretary of State Jean-Marie Bockel. Her husband is Jewish. Yade considers herself a feminist.

Bibliography

References

External links
Official website

1976 births
Living people
Atlantic Council
Black French politicians
Senegalese emigrants to France
French political writers
French Muslims
Senegalese feminists
French LGBT rights activists
The Centrists politicians
People from Dakar
Radical Party (France) politicians
French right-wing politicians
Sciences Po alumni
Union for a Popular Movement politicians
Senegalese women writers
Senegalese writers
French feminists
Proponents of Islamic feminism
21st-century French women politicians
Union of Democrats and Independents politicians
Women government ministers of France
Women civil rights activists
Naturalized citizens of France