[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Basque rural sports

t the opposing team's blue marker over the team's own  line. Hands must always be on the rope and it may not be supported with any other part of the body or allowed to slacken. Only the last member of the team is allowed to wind the rope around their body.

In Spanish this is called  and in French .

Trontza (sawing)
Sawing competitions, also called  or , are seen as a variation of  and involve sawing through pieces of wood. The log is either fixed horizontally on sawhorses at a height of  or at an angle with one end over the sawhorse and two members of the sawing team sitting on the lower end to stabilise the log, with two other handling the saw. The saw is usually  long, the logs vary but can be over  in circumference and usually between 10 to 20 in number.

In Spanish this is called  or just  and in French .

Txinga eramatea (weight carrying)

In the weight carrying competition weights have to be carried in both hands as far as possible. There usually is no time limit but the weights weigh between  each and may not be put down or supported by any other part of the body. Competitors may hold them only  by the rope handles and are not allowed to put their hands through the handles. It is possible for competitors to bring their own, favourite weights, but they are checked by judges beforehand. The aim is to complete as many plaza of  as possible. Competitors each set their own pace and may stop (without putting the weights down). Champions typically manage .
It is similar to the churn carrying competition.

The word  variously shows up in dialect forms such as  or . In Spanish this is called  or .

Zaku eramatea (sack carrying)
The sack carrying, also called  (sack race) requires participants to have both speed and stamina. It usually takes the form of a relay race in teams of 3 where the runners have to carry heavy sacks across their shoulders. Depending on the area, the sacks contain a variety of things from bread to beans and usually weigh , , or .

In Spanish this is called  ("smugglers' runs") or  and in French .

Other rural sports
The above categories included in the H18K group aside, there are a number of other rural and traditional Basque sports, some of which are extremely popular both in and outside the Basque Country. Some are indigenous, some also occur in areas adjacent to the Basque country or other cultures around the world.

Ahari topeka (ram fighting)

Ram fights, also variously called  (ram bets) and ahari talka (ram bump) are very popular around the Urola basin in towns like Azpeitia (between October and June) and Arroa. They test the strength and endurance of the rams, using their natural inclination to fight other rams.

The rams are trained and fed on a variety of secret diets involving things like beans, apples, red wine, carrots or egg yolk. A basic fight goes over at least 8 ekintaldi (attacks), also called kintze (from Spanish quince "15"), with the best of 8 winning. To score a point, a ram has to land a square hit on his opponent's head or horns. If the ram runs away at the start, the owner is allowed to bring him back into the ring once. There are records of bets over 100 attacks, but these are rare now.

Although the strongest rams are said to come from the Aralar Mendilerroa mountain range between Gipuzkoa and Navarre, they are also said to be too placid so the preference is for rams from the region around Urbasa, Andia,  and Gorbeia.

The Basque Government controversially banned the Iurreta  in 2007 on animal welfare grounds.

This sport is called  in Spanish.

Aitzur jaurtiketa (hoe throwing)
A game of throwing hoes.

In Spanish this is called  and in French as .

Antzar jokoa (goose game)

There are two variations of this game depending on whether it is played at a seaside town or inland. In a seaside town, a long rope is suspended between a pole on the quay and the mast of a boat. A dead goose (previously live geese were used too) is suspended head down in the middle of the rope. Teams now have to row out and a designated person must jump up, grab the goose, hang on to it and try to remove the head before falling off. At the same time, sailors at both ends of the rope try their best to shake the person clinging to the goose off. The team that collects the most heads wins. Inland, the rope is suspended over the ground and the same goal must be achieved from horseback.

The most famous of these is held in Lekeitio on  (goose day), held between the 1–8 September goes back at least to the year 1877, when it was played only by sailors. It has also been celebrated on other days in other villages, sometimes (for example in Gernika) using chicken instead of geese.

In Spanish this is called juego de gansos and in French as jeu d'oie.

Ardi ile moztea (sheep shearing)
Sheep shearing also features in Basque rural sports and works along similar lines as other sheep shearing contests.  translates as "the shearing of sheep's wool" and it is also known as  "sheep shearing".