[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Brazilian presidential line of succession

The presidential line of succession defines who may become or act as President of the Federative Republic of Brazil upon the death, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of the elected president, and also when the president is out of the country or is suspended due to impeachment proceedings.

The Brazilian Federal Constitution establishes that a vice president succeeds as president when the elected president dies, resigns or is removed from office. The other officers in the line of succession are the president of the Chamber of Deputies, the president of the Federal Senate, and the president of the Supreme Federal Court, in that order, but those other officers do not succeed to the presidency as a vice president would. Instead, they merely serve as acting president.

The vice president and the other officers in the line of succession, in accordance with the constitutional order of preference, also serve as acting president when the president is under incapacity, or is suspended due to impeachment proceedings, or when the president travels abroad.

In Brazil, when the vice president dies, resigns or is removed from office, or when a vice president succeeds to the presidency, the vice presidency remains vacant until the inauguration of the vice president chosen in the next election. That election is usually the presidential election held in the last year of the presidential term to choose the president and vice president that will serve in the next four-year presidential term. Only when both the presidency and the vice presidency become vacant at the same time are special elections summoned to elect a new president and vice president to complete the pending presidential term.

Death, resignation or removal from office
Should a president die in office, resign or be removed from office, a vice-president succeeds as president.

The other officers in the line of succession do not become president in those cases. Instead, the next available person in line merely becomes acting president, and the Constitution dictates that, whenever both the presidency and the vice-presidency become vacant, new elections are to be held. So in the case of an acting president taking office due to a double vacancy in the presidency and vice-presidency, the acting president serves only until the special election takes place and the newly elected president and vice-president are sworn-in.

If the second vacancy triggering elections takes place in the last two years of the presidential term, the National Congress is empowered and required to elect the president (and his vice-president). If the double vacancy of the presidency and vice-presidency takes place in the first half of the four-year presidential term, however, a presidential election by popular vote is held.

In any event, the president and vice-president so elected merely finish what remains of the pending presidential term, and thereafter a new president and a new vice-president, chosen in the regular general elections, take office for a normal four-year term.

Acting president during presidential travel abroad: the special case of two centers of authority

In Brazil, per constitutional custom dating back to the 19th century, whenever a president travels abroad, although the president remains invested with the powers and duties of the office for the purpose of representing the country abroad, the dispatch of the business of the presidency and the discharge of the powers and duties of the office are also vested in the vice-president as acting president or, if the vice-president is also not available, in the next person in the line of succession who is able to serve.

The situation is similar in a way to the appointment of Counsellors of State by the British Sovereign. Just like the British Sovereign remains invested with the royal powers while the Counsellors of State are in place to handle the royal functions, so that there are two centers of authority capable of discharging those functions (the Sovereign himself or the Counsellors), when the president of Brazil travels abroad this automatically triggers the assumption of the office of acting president by the person next in line who is in Brazil, but in that specific case, dictated by constitutional custom and not by the express text of the Constitution, two subjective centers of authority remain in place: the president who is abroad and the acting president.

Service by an acting president in the event of presidential incapacity or during the trial of charges of impeachment accepted against the president

The vice-president, or, should the vice-presidency be vacant or the vice-president unavailable, the next person in the line of succession, takes office as acting president whenever the president is under an incapacity that impedes him from discharging the powers and duties of the presidency.