[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of the Barracks

rdered the JNA to return to its barracks within 48 hours. The move was motivated by Tuđman's impression that the conference would continue while the ZNG lost ground. Even though the order was disputed by other members of the body, it gave Croatia a justification to openly confront the JNA.

Timeline

Prime Minister Franjo Gregurić proposed Tuđman to implement Špegelj's plan. According to General Anton Tus, Tuđman ordered the ZNG to capture JNA barracks on 12 September, but rescinded the order the next day. The order was reinstated on 14 September after Tus pleaded with Tuđman to authorize the move, arguing that the ZNG was running out of time. The same day, the ZNG and the Croatian police blockaded and cut utilities to all JNA facilities it had access to, beginning the Battle of the Barracks. The move blockaded 33 large JNA garrisons in Croatia, and numerous smaller facilities, including border posts and weapons and ammunition storage depots. The blockade forced the JNA to amend its campaign in Croatia plans to accommodate the new development. Several JNA posts were attacked by the ZNG before the blockade was officially sanctioned, largely in response to local battlefield situations. The first such incident was a failed attack on JNA barracks in Sinj on 25 August, in response to the deterioration of ZNG positions in the nearby village of Kijevo. On 3 September, the ZNG captured a barracks in Sisak, and on 13 September a weapons storage depot in Gospić area was captured amid fighting for control of the city. In May, 21 M-84AB tanks were captured in a Đuro Đaković factory. The tanks were due to be shipped to Kuwait, but a part of the shipment was kept by Croatia. A train transporting JNA weapons from Slovenia to Serbia was captured in Slavonski Brod on 21 August. The ZNG seized its first anti-aircraft weapons, anti-tank weapons, and artillery pieces there while adding to its small stock of mortars. The ZNG forces besieging the JNA facilities were mainly drawn from the local populace; reinforcements deployed from other cities were relatively few.

September

On 14 Septemberthe day Croatian forces were ordered to blockade the JNA facilitiesthe ZNG and the police captured the JNA barracks in Ploče, one of several barracks in Gospić, and one in nearby Perušić. The JNA garrison in Otočacnorth of Gospićalso came under attack as the ZNG started to assault the barracks in the town. The "Sopnica" JNA depot near Zagreb and a JNA-manned post on the Hungarian border near Pitomača were captured that day. In response to the blockade of their barracks in Vukovar, the JNA dispatched a force to relieve the siege. The next day, the ZNG and the police captured a JNA depot near Popovecwest of Zagreband another depot near Slavonski Brod. At the same time, fighting erupted around JNA facilities in Varaždin, and two JNA border posts were captured north of Virovitica.

On 16 September, Croatian forces captured a JNA barracks and another storage depot in Slavonski Brod, and two barracks in Ogulin, while fighting erupted around a JNA post in Oštarije. Croatian forces also captured the Žrnovnica missile base and JNA weapons storage facilities near Daruvar, Otočac, Križevci and Virovitica. On 17 September, Croatian forces captured the JNA barracks in Daruvar, Ogulin, Čakovec, Križevci, Virovitica, Požega, two JNA barracks in the Šibenik–Rogoznica area and one in Varaždin. A JNA depot was captured near Zagreb (Duboki Jarak). On 18 September, three additional barracks in Varaždin, one near Rogoznica and two in Đakovotogether with all remaining JNA facilities in Gospić, a nearby weapons storage facility, a communications facility near Garešnica and dozens of border postssurrendered to Croatian forces.

On 19 September, the ZNG clashed with the JNA garrison at the Logorište barracks in Karlovac, captured a communications facility at Platak near Rijeka an additional JNA barracks and a storage depot in Varaždin, restricting the JNA to the barracks housing headquarters of the JNA Varaždin Corps. By 20 September, when the JNA launched a campaign against the ZNG throughout Croatia, more than 60 JNA facilities in Croatiaincluding 15 barracks and 11 storage depotshad surrendered or were captured. The JNA barracks in Našice surrendered on 21 September. The JNA Varaždin Corps surrendered the next day, providing the ZNG with a major cache of weapons. In the first few days of the blockade, the Croatian forces also captured several small JNA posts in Split, but no large JNA facility in the city.