[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hizma

llegal by the international community:
1544 dunams of land were taken for Pisgat Amir,
385 dunams of land were taken for Neve Ya'akov,
89 dunams of land were taken for Pisgat Ze'ev.

After the 1995 accords, about 9% of the village area was classified as Area B, while the remaining 91% became Area C.

There is a bypass road connecting the settlements with the neighboring Israeli settlements. There is also a buffer zone of 75 meters along the roads on each side. Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank are prohibited from using these roads, only Israelis and foreign nationals can use them, the status purpose being security concerns.

West Bank barrier
The Israel-West Bank barrier cuts off 40% of the village's area, with the Israeli side incorporating the settlements and surrounding forests, agricultural lands, open spaces, and a small part of the Palestinian residential area. As of 2012, an Israeli checkpoint located west of the village at an opening in the controls the passage to and from Hizma. Palestinians living outside Jerusalem must have a special permit that is reportedly hard to obtain.
Israeli citizens (including settlers) and permanent residents (including Palestinians in East Jerusalem) are allowed to pass in and out without any permits.

Israeli administration
Israeli authorities demolish the homes of Palestinians built without permits. Strict conditions for Palestinians applying for permits must be fulfilled and the permits are usually denied.

The village has on occasion been sealed off with road blocks in response to reported stone-throwing and rioting, characterized by many rights groups as a form of collective punishment.

Economy
In 2010, more than half of the workforce was working in the government or private employees sector; 22% was working in the Israeli labor market, 14% on agriculture, and 7% worked in the trade sector.

Hizma village is known for the cultivation of olives; 112 dunums of land were cultivated with olive trees in 2010. Cereals were grown on 233 dunums.

People from Hizma
 Sulaiman Khatib

Notes

Citations

Bibliography

External links
 Welcome To Hizma
 Hizma, Welcome to Palestine
 From Beirut to Bosnia Part 2 (The-Road-to-Palestine) - by Robert Fisk
 I watched a Palestinian family lose their land 25 years ago – and this week I returned to find them, Robert Fisk, The Independent
 Survey of Western Palestine, Map 17: IAA, Wikimedia commons
 Hizma Village (Fact Sheet), Applied Research Institute–Jerusalem (ARIJ), August 2012.
 Hizma Village Profile, ARIJ
 Himza aerial photo, ARIJ
 Locality Development Priorities and Needs in Hizma, ARIJ

Jerusalem Governorate
Towns in the West Bank
Municipalities of the State of Palestine