[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Coco Martin

ion or film. This film gave Martin his three Best Supporting Actor Awards at the 2009 Gawad Urian Awards, 2009 ENPRESS Golden Screen Awards, and 2009 Gawad Genio Awards. His contributions to the Philippines independent filmmakers led the media to dub him the "Prince of Philippine Independent Films."

2009–2014: Television projects and rise to fame
In late 2008 while accomplishing success in the indie films, Martin started doing television series and was cast in Ligaw na Bulaklak, his first ABS-CBN series playing the main antagonist. In 2009, he starred in the drama series Tayong Dalawa with Kim Chiu, Gerald Anderson, and Jake Cuenca where he won Best Drama Actor at the 2009 Star Awards for Television. After Tayong Dalawa, he starred in a remake of a 1990 film titled Nagsimula sa Puso, alongside Maja Salvador, Jason Abalos and Nikki Gil. Because of these projects, Martin was offered contract with Star Magic, ABS-CBN's biggest talent agency.

In 2010, he became part of the cast of ABS-CBN's primetime drama Kung Tayo'y Magkakalayo, and had his first leading role in the action series Tonyong Bayawak. The action series is the third installment of ABS-CBN weekly mini-series Agimat: Ang Mga Alamat ni Ramon Revilla ("Amulet: The Legendary Chronicles of Ramon Revilla"). He also starred in his first mainstream film under Star Cinema, Sa 'yo Lamang, and in the primetime series 1DOL with Sarah Geronimo and Sam Milby.

Despite his success in television, Martin starred in another award-winning, critically acclaimed indie film, Kinatay directed by Brillante Mendoza in 2009. The film premiered at the 62nd Cannes Film Festival, where it won the Best Director Award, the first Filipino film to do so. The film gave Martin his Best Actor Award at the 7th Golden Screen Award and Presidential Jury Award for Excellence in Acting at the 2009 Gawad Tanglaw Awards. He was also nominated for Best Actor at the 2009 FAMAS Award. The following year, Martin got his first top billing in an indie film,

Noy, produced by Star Cinema and directed by Dondon Santos. The film was selected as the Filipino entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 83rd Academy Awards, but didn't make the shortlist. It was a story about a journalist commissioned to come up with a documentary following the campaign of the character's namesake,  Sen. Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino III, who later became 15th president of the Philippines. In 2011, he led the acclaimed television series Minsan Lang Kita Iibigin, wherein he received the Dekada Award in the Gawad Urian ceremony. He was nominated for multiple awards for his portrayal as Alexander and Javier del Tierro in the series, and won Best Actor in the 20th KBP Golden Dove Awards and Best Drama Actor at the 25th Star Awards for TV.

In 2012, Martin starred in another ensemble series titled Walang Hanggan, an adaptation of the 1991 film Hihintayin Kita sa Langit. He was paired with Julia Montes, as his first official love interest. Because of the success of the series, Coco Martin was dubbed the "Prince of Philippine TV Series". He also starred in his second mainstream film entitled Born to Love You, opposite singer Angeline Quinto.  Later, he was cast in a romantic-comedy film directed by John D. Lazatin, Mae Czarina Cruz-Alviar, Frasco Santos Mortiz and Dado C. Lumibao titled, 24/7 in Love. In the same year, a script for a film called Juan dela Cruz was submitted to the 2012 Metro Manila Film Festival but failed to make the final list of entries. The entry, directed by Richard Somes, was one of the 7 rejected scripts. Because of this, Cinemedia Films Production Incorporated and ABS-CBN Dreamscape Entertainment unit head Deo Endrinal decided to retool the cancelled film as a television series, which was aired in 2013 with Erich Gonzales. The series had positive reviews and Martin became a household name. The series earned him another Best Actor Award at the 27th Star Awards for Television and at the 12th Gawad Tanglaw Awards.

In 2012, Martin starred in a film by Emmanuel Quindo Palo titled Sta. Niña along with Alessandra de Rossi, Anita Linda and Irma Adlawan. The film was an official entry for the New Breed Full Length Feature Category at the 8th Cinemalaya Independent Film Festival. The film also won "The Golden Crow Pheasant Award for Best Feature Film" aka Suvarna Chakoram at the 17th International Film Festival of Kerala in India.

Having worked with Director Palo in Sta. Nina, Martin was chosen to star in a 2013 film A Moment in Time together with Julia Montes as his leading lady. The film was shot in Amsterdam and Paris, and was produced by Dreamscape Cinema and Star Cinema. His performance earned him, a nomination for Best Drama Actor at the 2014 FAMAS Awards.