[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Palestine–Israel Journal

at Saragusti.

PIJ and IPCRI on the Annapolis Conference (November 7, 2007). Speakers: Ziad Abuzayyad, Dr. Ron Pundak.

“Lords of the Land” – Debating the impact of the Settlements (November 13, 2007). Speakers: Talia Sasson, Akiva Eldar. Moderator: Benjamin Pogrund. Introduction by Hillel Schenker.

The Role of the International Community (December 12, 2007). Speakers: Dr. Mufeed Qassum, Antoine Shalhat, Ziad Abuzayyad. Moderator: Nidal Erar.

1948: 60 Years After, Independence/Nakba, What Is Next?" (Aug 25, 2008). Speakers: Colette Avital, Jibril Rajoub, David Viveash. Introduction by Hillel Schenker.

Palestinian Refugees and the Two-State Solution (April 21, 2010). Speakers: Israela Orou, Dr. Adnan Abdelrazek, Dr. Ron Pundak, Dr. Nazmi Ju'beh. Moderators: Walid Salem, Hillel Schenker.

Conferences 
On January 27, 2010 Palestine–Israel Journal held a conference on Jerusalem entitled Israeli Settlements, Palestinian Refugees, and Gaza & the Two-State Solution.  The conference coincided with the release of three position papers on these subjects, which were commissioned by the European Union.  Speakers included Isaac Herzog and Ziad Abuzayyad.

On May 10, 2010 Palestine-Israel Journal, Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung and School of Oriental and African Studies, London held in international conference in Jerusalem entitled A Nuclear Free Zone in the Middle East: Realistic or Idealistic?, following the publication of the March  2010 issue of the same name. Speakers included Dr. Avner Cohen, Dr. Farhang Jahanpour, Dr. Emily Landau, Dr. Bernd Kubbig, Jamil Rabah and Dr. Dan Plesch.

On June 8, 2010 Palestine–Israel Journal held a conference in conjunction with the Veneto Region under the auspices of the Peace Education through Media Project and with the support of the European Union's Partnership for Peace Project.  The conference, entitled, "Peace Education Through Media", examined the role of the media and journalists in encouraging or discouraging violence, particularly in the context of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

On June 18–19, 2010 Palestine–Israel Journal and the International Dialogues Foundation held a conference in The Hague, Netherlands on the subject of, "Jerusalem: Dialogues for Justice and Peace".  Speakers included Ziad Abuzayyad, Menachem Klein, Walid Salem, and Moshe Maoz.

On April 13, 2011 Palestine–Israel Journal, with Ir Amim, the International Crisis Group and OCHA held a conference entitled Jerusalem - In the Eye of the Storm, coinciding with the publication of the 2011 double issue of the same name. Split into two sessions, the conference focused first on the presentations of reports and studies. Presenters included Ray Dolphin, Ofer Zalzberg, Yehudit Oppenheimer, and Hillel Schenker, with Ziad Abuzayyad as moderator. The second session consisted of a panel entitled Talking About Jerusalem, with Hagit Ofran, Dr. Jad Isaac, Hillel Ben-Sasson and Dr. Omar Yousef as speakers. The panel was moderated by Dr. Adnan Abdelrazek.

On December 13, 2012, The Palestine–Israel Journal held a public event in Tel Aviv discussing the challenges facing Israeli and Palestinian Civil Society.

In January 2012, The Palestine–Israel Journal held an event sponsored by the EU Partnership for Peace outlining guidelines for the media professionals covering the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

On March 18, 2012 in celebration of International Women's Day, the Palestine–Israel Journal held a conference titled Women in Power. Speakers included Lucy Nusseibeh, Professor Galia Golan and MK Michal Rozin.

In March, 2013, The Palestine–Israel Journal co-hosted two conferences with the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung Foundation; one called "Challenging the Israeli-Palestinian Stalemate" and the other "Jerusalem: Still Key to Any Future Israeli-Palestinian Agreement". Speakers included Ron Pundak, Hind Khoury and Muhammad Madani.

In April, 2014, co-editors Hillel Schenker and Ziad Abuzayyad flew to Washington D.C. to participate in a conference sponsored by The Foundation for Middle East Peace, Americans for Peace Now, and Churches for Middle East Peace titled "John Kerry's Initiative: Bump in the Road or End of the Road?".

The most recent conference was also co-sponsored by the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung Foundation held on April 9, 2014 in New York City titled "Advancing a Weapons of Mass Destruction-Free Zone in the Middle East". Speakers included Sameh Aboul-Enein, Shlomo Brom, Hillel Schenker, and Ziad AbuZayyad.