[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mohamed Atta's alleged Prague connection

Atta had been in Prague and we didn't know ...

MR. RUSSERT: And the meeting with Atta did not occur?

VICE PRES. CHENEY: We don't know. I mean, we've never been able to, to, to link it, and the FBI and CIA have worked it aggressively. I would say, at this point, nobody has been able to confirm ...

Senate Report of Pre-war Intelligence on Iraq
On September 8, 2006, the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released "Phase II" of its report on prewar intelligence on Iraq.  In the report, the following is stated regarding Atta in Prague:
Postwar findings support CIA's January 2003 assessment, which judged that "the most reliable reporting casts doubt" on ... an alleged meeting between Mohamed Atta and an Iraqi intelligence officer in Prague, and confirm that no such meeting occurred ... Prewar assessments described reporting on the Atta lead as contradictory and unverified.  In September 2002, CIA assessed that some evidence asserted that the two met, and some cast doubt on the possibility.  By January 2003, CIA assessed that ... they were "increasingly skeptical that Atta traveled to Prague in 2001 or met with IIS officer al-Ani."  Postwar debriefings of al-Ani indicate that he had never seen or heard of Atta until after September 11, 2001, when Atta's face appeared on the news.

The report also contains a full page of information with regards to Atta in Prague that was redacted.  Newsweek reports that the blacked-out portion of the Report involved a CIA cable that lays out the controversy.  According to Newsweek, "Democrats charged in a written statement that intelligence officials had failed to demonstrate 'that disclosing the [cable] ... would reveal sources and methods or otherwise harm national security.' The Democrats also complained that officials' refusal to declassify the cable 'represents an improper use of classification authority by the intelligence community to shield the White House.'"  Newsweek goes on to report: 
According to two sources familiar with the blacked-out portions of the Senate report that discuss the CIA cable's contents, the document indicates that White House officials had proposed mentioning the supposed Atta-Prague meeting in a Bush speech scheduled for March 14, 2003 ... According to one of the sources familiar with the Senate report's censored portions, who asked for anonymity due to the sensitivity of the subject, the tone of the CIA cable was 'strident' and expressed dismay that the White House was trying to shoehorn the Atta anecdote into the Bush speech to be delivered only days before the U.S. invasion of Iraq. The source said the cable also suggested that policymakers had tried to insert the same anecdote into other speeches by top administration officials.  A second source familiar with the Senate report, however, maintained that it could be read as routine give-and-take between policymakers asking legitimate questions about intelligence reporting and field operatives giving respectful responses. Both sources familiar with the report acknowledge that there is no proof the White House saw the cable, and thus it is unclear whether the CIA document had any bearing on the fact that Bush never mentioned the Atta anecdote in a speech.

CIA spokesman Paul Gimigliano asserted that the classification had nothing to do with protecting the Bush Administration: "When CIA did not agree to a specific public release, its case was based on current intelligence equities and a desire to preserve the candor essential to good internal discussion of complex issues. It's simply wrong to suggest the goal was to protect the White House."

See also
Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda link allegations

References

External links
 The Prewar Evidence (or Lack Thereof): Saddam Hussein’s Collaboration with Terrorists and His Deterrability

9/11 conspiracy theories
History of Prague
Al-Qaeda
Causes and prelude of the Iraq War
Disinformation operations
Mohamed Atta