[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Macedonian Australians

Naum of Ohrid of Kinglake and MPCO- Света Петка/Saint Petka of Kembla Grange. The Cathedrals are Macedonian Orthodox Cathedral- Свети Климент Охридски/Saint Kliment of Ohrid of Red Hill and Macedonian Orthodox Cathedral- Свети Кирил и Методиј/Saints Cyril and Methodius'' of Rosebery (autocephalous).

The Macedonian Orthodox Church "St George" was founded in 1959 before full Autocephaly had been declared. The Greek Orthodox Community of Shepparton is primarily Macedonian. In 1975 the "Macedonian Church of St Cyril and Methodius" was founded in Sydney.

Although most Macedonians are adherents of the Macedonian Orthodox Church many follow a different faith. In Melbourne there are two Macedonian Protestant Churches; the Macedonian Church in East Preston (Uniting Church) and Macedonian Baptist Community of Regent. There is another Macedonian Baptist Church in Sydney. Another Macedonian Methodist Community was established in Melbourne. Furthermore, Melbourne is home to a Macedonian-speaking Seventh-Day Adventist church in Footscray.

List of notable Macedonian Australians

Artists and media

Sports

Music

Media

See also 

 Altona Magic SC
 Australia–North Macedonia relations
 Bankstown City Lions
 Broadmeadow Magic FC
 European Australians
 Europeans in Oceania
 Geelong SC
 Immigration to Australia
 Macedonian diaspora
 Macedonian-Australian People's League
 Macedonians
 North Macedonia
 Preston Lions FC
 Rockdale City Suns
 Stirling Macedonia FC
 Wollongong United FC

References 
 The Australian Bureau of Statistics: www.abs.gov.au

External links 
Australia Wide
 United Macedonian Diaspora Australia
 Macedonian Human Rights Committee - Australia
 Macedonian Embassy in Australia
 Macedonian Orthodox Church - Australia and New Zealand
 Australian Macedonian Business Directory
 SBS- Macedonian language program
 Ties With Tradition - Macedonian apron designs

Local Archive Groups
 A Multicultural Landscape: National Parks and the Macedonian Experience
 Macedonian Community Council of Victoria
 Macedonian Australian Welfare Association of Sydney Inc.
 Australian Macedonian Weekly, the Macedonian Newspaper for Macedonian Australians
 Macedonian Dance Group in Queanbeyan, KUD Razigrana Makedonka
 Federation of Macedonian Cultural Artistic Associations of Victoria
 Port Kembla Macedonian Welfare Association Inc.
 Macedonian Community of Adelaide and South Australia
 The Macedonians of Crabbes Creek
 Macedonian - West Australian Business and Economic Forum
 Makedonska Iskra Newspaper
 Stirling Lions Soccer Club
 Wollongong United Soccer Club
 Preston Lions Soccer Club
 Rockdale City Suns Soccer Club
 Broadmeadow Magic Soccer Club

European Australian
 
Macedonian diaspora
Immigration to Australia