[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Royal Palace of Bucharest

completely destroyed Casa Nouă and seriously affected the Royal Palace. On 24 August 1944, the day after King Mihai and his alles removed the government led by Ion Antonescu from power, the Royal Palace was severely damaged by the bombing of the German Luftwaffe aviation, which occurred as reprisal.

After 24 August 1944, with the Royal Palace made uninhabitable by the German bombardment and Cotroceni Palace still not recovered after the disastrous earthquake on 10 November 1940, the Romanian royal family missed again a functional Bucharest residence. King Michael asked his aunt, Princess Elisabeta of Romania, former Queen Consort of Greece, to allow the court to use her villa in Herăstrău Park (nowadays known as the Elisabeta Palace). The Elisabeta Palace would serve as the residence of the royal family until 1947, when Michael I was forced to abdicate and left in exile, and again after 1997, when the family was returned several former properties.

In 1945, the Throne Hall in the Royal Palace was superficially repaired, in a hurry, to host the ceremony of decoration for King Michael I, by the Soviets. They awarded the King the Order of Victory, their highest military decoration, for his merit in the 1944 coup. For the same reason, the King was awarded the Legion of Merit at highest degree (Chief Commander) by U.S. president Harry S. Truman, a year later.

The Royal Palace during the Communist regime (1947–89)
During communist rule, the Royal Palace in Bucharest was used to host the National Museum of Art of Romania.

The Throne Hall in the palace was renamed as "Sala Consiliului de Stat" ("The Hall of the State's Council") and used by subsequent leaders of Romania – such as Nicolae Ceaușescu – for various political events. During that era, all symbols reminding of the monarchy, such as the throne armchair itself, the great royal coat of arms on the walls and others, were removed. Behind the Royal Palace, a multi-purpose hall was built between 1959 and 1960 on the site where the royal residence called "Casa Nouă" was located, which now serves as a concert and conference hall 'Sala Palatului'.

In 1965, the Hall of the State's Council was used for the lying-in-state of deceased leader Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, with Romanian people encouraged to pay the last respects.

The Royal Palace after the Romanian Revolution of 1989

After its anti-Communist Revolution of 1989, Romania remained under a republican government and the former Royal Palace continued to host the National Museum of Art. During the events in December 1989, with violent armed confrontations on the streets, the palace was again seriously damaged and partially burnt, the art works of the National Museum inside it being put at great risk. The main halls in the Royal Palace were generally restored after the regime change – with the most ample restoration work completed in 2013 – and are now opened to tourists.

After the Romanian Revolution, former King Michael and his wife, Anne, were allowed for a first visit in the country in April 1992 (despite their attempts to do that immediately after the events). The two-day visit was a historical event, with the monarchist press claiming more than one million people were cheering the King in the streets. After that, the Romanian post-Communist authorities denied him a second visit – until 1997. Then, a newly installed government under Victor Ciorbea abolished the Communist decree which banned the King's Romanian citizenship, effectively allowing him to regain ID documents and free pass throughout the country.

In August 2016, the coffin of Anne, King Michael's spouse, was laid in the Throne Hall for two days, before her burial in Curtea de Argeș, with thousands of Romanians paying homages. Also in December 2017, the funeral of king Michael took place out of the Royal Palace.

References

Literature

External links

Image gallery

Palaces in Bucharest
Royal residences in Romania
Calea Victoriei
Buildings and structures in Bucharest
Historic monuments in Bucharest