[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Morgaro Gomis

Morgaro Lima Gomis (born 14 July 1985) is a Senegalese professional footballer who last played as a defensive midfielder for Kelantan United.

Starting his career in France, Gomis spent most of his early career in English non-League football before moving to Scottish Football League side Cowdenbeath. His performances earned him a move to Dundee United in January 2007, where he exceeded expectations and was young player of the year for 2007–08. He was part of the Dundee United side that won the Scottish Cup in 2010 and was the first African to have played 100 times for the club. He left the club when his contract expired at the end of the 2010–11 season to join Football League Championship side Birmingham City. Gomis left Birmingham City in July 2013, having made 43 appearances for the club. He then rejoined Dundee United for a season before signing for Hearts in 2014. In 2016, he was loaned to Motherwell and made 10 appearances for the club before joining Kelantan in July 2016. After spending time with Omani club Sur SC in 2018, he returned to Scotland in January 2019 for a third spell with Dundee United, and joined Falkirk for the 2019–20 season. Following his release from Falkirk in May 2021 he signed for fellow Scottish League One club Clyde.

Although born in Paris and self-identifying as French, Gomis represented Senegal at international level, for whom he qualified through his Senegalese parents.

Career

Early career
Gomis was at Montpellier in his youth and had unsuccessful trials with Chelsea, Freiburg and Lausanne-Sport.

England
Gomis spent several years playing in English non-League football. In 2004, he signed for Windsor & Eton and featured in 18 league matches, scoring once. In January 2005, Gomis moved to Dagenham & Redbridge but the move quickly became controversial after an agent became involved in a contract row with the club. Gomis left in March 2005 without making an appearance and rejoined Windsor, playing in five matches before the end of the season. Gomis had a short stay with Barnet at the start of the 2005–06 season – where he featured in a matchday squad once as an unused substitute – but his month-to-month contract was not renewed and he moved to Lewes. He made his league debut in a 5–2 defeat of Weston-super-Mare on 15 Octoberthe club website's match report suggested that manager Steve King "may well have unearthed another little gem in Morgaro Gomis, whose contribution after arriving on the field as a 55th minute substitute was key to the eventual success."and played in fourteen Conference South matches, scoring once, during the season.

Cowdenbeath
In July 2006, Gomis moved to Scotland and joined Cowdenbeath who at the time were managed by Mixu Paatelainen. While at the Central Park club, Gomis scored twice: he "floated home a delightful shot from 20 yards high into the visitors' net" in a 4–2 win against Peterhead and a stoppage-time header to secure a 3–2 win at home to Forfar Athletic.

Dundee United

On 8 December, just four months after his Cowdenbeath debut, Gomis agreed a move to Scottish Premier League side Dundee United and joined in January 2007, signing until the end of the following season. Such was Gomis's earlier-than-expected impact – manager Craig Levein had said upon signing him that he would not go straight into the first team – that he was given a two-year extension to his contract in September 2007. In January 2009, Gomis received a further extension to his contract. Gomis received the first winner's medal of his senior career as a member of the Dundee United squad that won the 2010 Scottish Cup Final against Ross County.

In April 2011, manager Peter Houston indicated that he expected Gomis to leave at the end of the season because the club was unable to match the player's demands.

Birmingham City
On 16 June 2011, Championship club Birmingham City completed the signing of free agent Gomis on a two-year deal. He made his debut in the Football League on the opening day of the 2011–12 season, playing the whole of a 2–1 defeat at Derby County. At home to Millwall, Gomis, described by the Telegraphs reporter as "combin[ing] industry with silky passes from his deep-lying central midfield position", played a "deliciously weighted pass" behind the defence from which Jean Beausejour crossed for Chris Wood to open the scoring.

In May 2013, Birmingham confirmed that they were not going to take up their option to extend Gomis' contract, so he was to leave the club at the end of the season when his existing deal expired.