[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Staaken

many farther away from the border to West Berlin. Up to 1980 the eastern part of Staaken inside West Berlin was served by S-Bahn. This service was abandoned by the East German Reichsbahn Headquarters after the big strike of the West Berlin Reichsbahn workers. A reconnection today is highly unlikely.

The car traffic, travelling along F 5 between West Berlin and the East German Democratic Republic or the West German Federal Republic, e.g. to Hamburg, was subject to the Interzonal traffic regulations that between West Germany and West Berlin followed the special regulations of the Transit Agreement (1972).

On 1 January 1988 the transit traffic to West Berlin was redirected to the new East German Stolpe checkpoint (a part of today's Hohen Neuendorf)/West Berlin-Heiligensee. From 1988 to 9 November 1989 the Heerstraße border crossing was open for the highly restricted traffic between West Berlin and East Germany. Highly restricted in this case means citizens of West Berlin had to apply for a visiting permit to visit relatives; while only GDR citizens above the age of 65 could apply to visit relatives in West Berlin. Eastern controls were slowly eased into spot checks and finally abolished on 30 June 1990, the day East and West introduced the union concerning currency, economy and social security ().

Geography
Staaken borders on the localities of Spandau proper, Falkenhagener Feld and Wilhelmstadt. In the west it shares border with the Brandenburg municipalities of Falkensee and Dallgow-Döberitz with the village of Seeburg, part of Havelland district. Buildings range from small detached houses and a garden city around the historic village centre in the west to larger 1960s and 1970s housing estates in the east.

Subdivisions
The locality of Staaken includes six sites () or neighbourhoods (Siedlungen): 
Dorf Staaken ("Staaken Village"), the historic settlement around the Alt-Staaken village church
Albrechtshof, a family home colony in the northwest, around Berlin Albrechtshof station
Gartenstadt Staaken (Staaken Garden City), built from 1914 to 1917 according to plans designed by Paul Schmitthenner, today protected as a historic monument 
Neu-Jerusalem, an early example of New Objectivity residential construction along western Heerstraße, erected in 1923/24 according to plans by Erwin Anton Gutkind and Leberecht Migge
Neu-Staaken with Louise-Schroeder-Siedlung, several housing estates built in the 1960s and 70s on former allotment land in the east which then belonged to West Berlin
Siedlung Hahneberg, a family home estate in the southwest.

Transportation
Staaken is served by RegionalExpress and RegionalBahn trains of the Deutsche Bahn at the stations Staaken and Albrechtshof. A S-Bahn connection to Albrechtshof is planned. The Bundesstraße 5 federal highway runs through the locality along Heerstraße.

Notable people
 Katarina Witt (born 1965), figure skater, born in the GDR municipality of Staaken

Gallery

See also
 Berlin Albrechtshof railway station
 Berlin-Staaken railway station
 Challenge 1930
 Challenge 1932

References

External links

  Staaken info website
  Staaken page on www.berlin.de

Aviation history of Berlin
Localities of Berlin