[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# One Million Signatures

s award 

The Feminist Majority Foundation honored the One Million Signatures Campaign as a recipient of the 2009 Global Women's Rights Award. This award was presented to the Campaign,"in special recognition of their groundbreaking work to demand an end to discriminatory laws in Iran against women."

Publishing of "Iranian Women's One Million Signatures Campaign for Equality: The Inside Story"  
In 2009 Women's Learning Partnership (WLP) published "Iranian Women's One Million Signatures Campaign for Equality: The Inside Story" written by Noushin Ahmadi Khorasani, one of the founding members of the campaign. Iranian Women's One Million Signatures Campaign for Equality: The Inside Story details the history, strategies, and values that brought together a diverse group of Iranian women, men, and rights activists for the well-known women’s equality campaign. It is a valuable case study of a new model for grassroots movements in the 21st century, applicable not only in societies ruled by autocratic governments or influenced by radical fundamentalism, but also in more open and tolerant societies that have yet to achieve full equality for women.

Legislation 
In 2008 the conservative Iranian government proposed a tax on prenuptial arrangements above a certain amount, to reduce the financial burden on men. Many leaders of the 'Signatures' campaign actively worked against it. In September 2008, the bill for the tax was returned to the legislative council, citing the problematic meddling of the government in private contracts; however, its primary opposition came from the perceived promotion of polygamy in the government's bill.  The proposed polygamy and tax provisions were absent from the bill that was passed on 9 September 2008.

Persecution 
Several participants in the peaceful gathering of women’s rights defenders on 12 June 2006 in Hafte Tir Square, which ended with police violence and brutality and the arrest of 70 people, have been tried and sentenced. They include Delaram Ali, Fariba Davoodi Mohajer, Noushin Ahmadi Khorasani, Parvin Ardalan, Shahla Entesari, Sussan Tahmasebi, Azadeh Forghani, Bahareh Hedayat and Bahare Alavi. , Maryam Zia, Nasim Soltan Beigi, and Alieh Eghdam Doost had yet to be sentenced. In an interview, prominent lawyer and Nobel laureate Shirin Ebadi called charges against the women baseless. The sentences include jail terms, some of them suspended, and also various numbers of lashes. Nahid Siamdoust, writing in the New York Times, referred to the campaign as having been "crushed".

According to California State University professor Nayereh Tohidi, women collecting signatures for the campaign were attacked and arrested, which has slowed down its progress, causing the need to extend its two-year target. For example, in March 2007, thirty-three women were arrested, mostly outside a Tehran courtroom where they had gathered to protest peacefully against the trial of five women—Fariba Davoudi Mohajer, 
Shahla Entesari, Noushin Ahmadi Khorassani, Parvin Ardalan and 
Sussan Tahmasebi – who were accused of “propaganda against the system”, “acting against national security” and “participating in an illegal demonstration” in connection with the 12 June 2006 demonstration. As well as four of the women on trial, those arrested included Shadi Sadr and Mahboubeh Abbasgholizadeh who were held over two weeks before being released on bail.

On November 4, 2007, Ronak Safazadeh was arrested, the day after she collected signatures at a Children's Day celebration for the One Million Signature Campaign.

On 12 June 2008 Nasrin Sotoodeh and eight other women were arrested by security forces as they were preparing to attend a conference commemorating the national day of solidarity of Iranian women.

After the victory over the marriage bill in September 2008, a court sentenced to jail four women leaders involved in the One Million Signatures campaign, for contributing to banned websites.  They were identified as Maryam Hosseinkhah, Nahid Keshavarz, Jelveh Javaheri and Parvin Ardalan.

In October 2008, Esha Momeni, a graduate student of the School of Communications, Media and Arts at California State University, interviewed activists in Tehran for a film as part of her California-based studies. She was arrested, initially for a driving offence, and prominent Iranian lawyer Mohammad Ali Dadkhah quoted officials of the Islamic Revolutionary Court as saying her detention related to involvement in the One Million Signatures campaign. Momeni was released on bail in November 2008 after 28 days in Evin Prison, but was not allowed to leave Iran. , she was still there.

See also 
 Iranian women
 Iranian women's movement
 Intellectual Movements in Iran
 Human rights in Iran
 Women's rights in Iran

References