[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# National Museum of India

n the spread of Buddhism in Thailand via Burma and they show similarities in cultural and material life with the indigenous communities of Thailand. The exhibition also had a section devoted to the concept of celebration of life as seen in the oral and visual performances of these indigenous groups.

The theme was primarily visualized through the artifacts from the National Museum collection. There were pottery stone sculptures, bronzes, wood carvings, terracotta, paintings, textiles and ethnic objects. These masterpieces range from collections of Anthropology, Archaeology, Decorative Art, and Pre-Columbian to Western Art. Additionally, to enhance the comparative artistic tradition of Thailand, select replicas of the masterpieces of ancient Thai art masks, musical instruments, photographs of Thai archaeological sites and objects, etc., contributed by the Royal Thai Embassy, were also on display. A wide range of silk-textiles from Assam and Thailand, from the collection of Dr, Pawan Jain, Art Historian and Smt, Gunjan Jain, Textile Designer, were also exhibited. The Swargadeo Chaolung Siukapha Samanway Kshetra, Mohbandha, Jorhat, Assam, also contributed a rare collection of Tal-Ahom manuscripts. Photographs from the field documentation conducted by the curatorial team of the Museum in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, which were on display, highlighted the similarities in Buddhist architectural edifices.

There were almost a hundred and fifty objects on display that emphasized on aspects of the shared heritage and artistic linkages of Indo-Thai spheres from ancient to modern times. The exhibition located the fundamental and prominent role India has played throughout the waves of cultural dissemination, and the displayed objects collectively brought forth a historical narrative that has been part of an India consciousness for centuries.

See also 

Carved wood vahanas in National Museum
Gyan chauper
Ivory Carved Dashavtar
Ivory carved tusk depicting Buddha life stories
Jade Collection in National Museum

References

External links 
"National Museum, New Delhi", Pathshala PDF
 Homepage
 e-Brochure, http://www.nationalmuseumindia.gov.in/assets/pdf/English-e-brochures-new.pdf
Virtual tour of the National Museum, New Delhi provided by Google Arts & Culture

 
National museums of India
Buildings and structures in New Delhi
Museums in Delhi
Archaeological museums in India
Art museums and galleries in India
Decorative arts museums in India
Art museums established in 1949
1949 establishments in India
Ministry of Culture (India)