[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sanjay Sarma

Course 2.003) Sarma often refers to the "Magic Formula" and the "Super Magic Formula." Many of his lectures are available online. Sarma also teaches manufacturing. Sarma was also a member of the Production in an Innovation Economy Commission formed by MIT in 2011. The commission released two books.

In November 2012, Professor Sarma was appointed the first Director of Digital Learning at MIT with a mandate to assess how initiatives such as MITx and EdX are affecting instruction on campus. The MIT Office of Digital Learning, established in 2013, then included MITx and MIT's historic OpenCourseWare project. Sarma was later named Dean of Digital Learning, and in April 2013, Professor Sarma was appointed as a co-chair of the Task Force for the Future of Education at MIT. The Task Force published its final report in August 2014, delivering a series of recommendations for MIT's education on campus and beyond. Based on the report's recommendations, in February 2015, MIT President L. Rafael Reif announced a significant expansion of MIT's programs in learning research and online and digital education — from pre-kindergarten through higher education to lifelong learning.  In this announcement, Sarma was appointed vice president for Open Learning, where he now leads the Office of Open Learning which oversees MIT's digital learning initiatives like MITx and MIT OpenCourseWare, as well as new programs launched under Sarma's leadership including the MicroMasters Program, the MIT Integrated Learning Initiative (MTili) and Abdul Latif Jameel World Education Lab (J-WEL). Sarma's new book Grasp explores how to reinvent education based on his extensive experience on digital education and open learning.

References

External links
MIT profile
MIT Office of Open Learning
Sanjay Sarma's website

Living people
1968 births
Carnegie Mellon University College of Engineering alumni
IIT Kanpur alumni
Indian expatriates in the United States
Indian mechanical engineers
MIT School of Engineering faculty
Radio-frequency identification
UC Berkeley College of Engineering alumni