[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Norma Chávez

sioners said a public apology was unnecessary and inappropriate. "This isn't about Claudia or the county," Perez said. "The story was about lobbyists paying for that party," County Commissioner Anna Perez said.

None of the lobbyists talked to the newspaper, and Chávez would not release their names.

Tom "Smithy" Smith, director of Public Citizen in Texas, told the paper: "She made a big darn deal out of it as one of the highlights of her life, so those that contributed are going to be on her good buddies' list."

Andrew Wheat, research director with the watchdog group Texans for Public Justice, told the paper, "It might have been far more in the public interest to scale back the size of the party … People graduate all the time without lobbyists paying for ice sculptures at their graduation parties."

El Paso County ethics bill 
An FBI investigation into corruption in El Paso County resulted in 10 elected officials, government and employees and businessmen pleading guilty to bribery and fraud. During the 2009 session, county officials pushed for legislation to establish a County ethics commission code to pursue and punish corruption violations. The ethics commission will have developed standards of conduct for county officials, employees, vendors, lobbyists and others who do business with the county.

Chávez did express her concerns regarding the legislation and made public her analysis of the legislation. Chávez identified at least 40 points of her concern ranging from the constitutionality of the commission, to the broad use or lack of definitions, conflicts of interest, among others.

The bill originally as drafted did not allow for review on a ruling by a District Court, or de novo review. The Texas Ethics Commission has adopted the standard de novo review.

Additionally, the bill establishes the County Attorney as the legal adviser to the proposed Ethics Commission.  Currently, the County Attorney offers legal advice and counsel to elected officials and departments of the county.  The County Attorney could find him or herself in a position where his client, the government official who asked for his advice and followed it, is facing charges from the County Attorney's other client the client, the Ethics Commission.

Some of the suggestions made by Chávez were ultimately incorporated in the final version of the bill.

Currently, El Paso County does have an Ethics Board.

Recently, concerns were expressed by a county official on the proposed Ethics Commission.  El Paso County Commissioner Dan Haggerty  said his fear was that the new commission would be used as a political weapon that could harm officials wrongly accused of unethical behavior. Such allegations, he said, usually make splashy headlines, but the news does not get much attention when accusations turn out to be false.

2006 incident with El Paso neighbors

In November 2006 Chávez's neighbors filed a police report saying that Chávez shouted profanity and threats at them, to have their dog taken away. The neighbors filed two police reports complaining that Chávez became enraged about their dog. Chávez told the media that her neighbors were lying and that she wasn't in El Paso at the time of the alleged events. No charges were filed against Chávez, and police said the complaints were not investigated.

2002 police incident

In December 2002, El Paso police closed a party, attended by Chávez, in her staffer's apartment, after neighbors complained of drug use in progress and noise. The police report was obtained by the El Paso Times on March 2, 2006. In the report, police reported Chávez was "highly intoxicated" and "abusive." The officers received a barrage and insults.  No charges were filed against Chávez. A March 2, 2006 El Paso Times story detailed the report.

At the party, two men were arrested, a January 30, 2003 the El Paso Times reported.  The charges against these two men were dismissed according to the March 2, 2006 El Paso Times story.

Proposition 12
In 2003, a constitutional amendment - Proposition 12 - that permitted caps on civil damage awards was put up to a vote. The amendment needed 100 votes. Republicans held 88 seats and uniformly supported the measure, and thus needed 12 Democrats to support the bill. Chávez told the Mexican American Caucus she would vote against the measure. But when the vote reached the floor, Chávez voted for the amendment. For this, Dolores Huerta, the former United Farmworkers activist who opposed the measure, said that Chávez "deserves to catch some heat in her district" for her vote

Voters in El Paso County passed Proposition 12 by 60% when it appeared on the ballot.

Texas Monthly criticism

Campaign contributions
In 2006, Chávez's major contributor was Bob J. Perry, a Houston homebuilder and major contributor to conservative Republican 527 groups, including Swift Vets and POWs for Truth, the group that "swift boated" John Kerry in the 2004 presidential campaign.