[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Russian nationalism

ted the conquest of the Caucasus. Pyotr Bagration was another Georgian who went on to become one of Russia's most celebrated heroes. Soviet Union's transformation into a superpower was the work of yet another Russified Georgian, Joseph Stalin, who had a complex relationship with Russian nationalism.

Some of Dagestan's revered figures have long been respected by Russian nationalists, such as Rasul Gamzatov, who is one of Russia's most respected poets despite his Avar origin. Khabib Nurmagomedov's rise to popularity and fame has earned a divisive opinion among Russians and Dagestanis. Putin loyalist Ramzan Kadirov has made controversial statements attacking the legendary Dagestani leader Imam Shamil, who led the armed resistance of Caucasian Imamate against Russian imperialism during the Murid War. This has resulted in an outpouring of criticism in Dagestanis, who fear that Kadyrovites seek to control the Kizlyarsky and Botlikhsky districts in Dagestan. The comments by Kadyrov are widely seen as part of government attempts to demean religious and national leaders of Russia's Muslim minority who defended their homeland from Imperial Russia.

Germans in Russia have long been treated with privileges under the Tsarist government and many Germans became prominent in Russian politics, education and economy, including the Tsarist House of Romanov, which also included many German-based figures, most notably Catherine the Great. Many Germans fought in the Russian Civil War and regarded themselves as Russian nationalists. The Baltic German nobility were significantly loyal to the Russian Empire, but were resistant to nationalism until the Russian Revolution, identifying mainly as members of the Russian nobility.

A number of critics believe the rise of Russian nationalism is belated. The reason is the passive attitude of Russians towards other peoples inhabiting Russia. Passivity arose because of the huge number of peoples of Russia, which were much smaller in number than Russians. They were easy to dominate and subdue. At the same time, the increase in the representation of Jews, Uzbeks, Germans, Armenians and other representatives of non-Russian peoples in the elites of Russia generates discontent and Russian "belated" nationalism. According to Boris Berezovsky, Russian nationalism is a huge danger that the entire non-Russian population of Russia will face on an increasing scale.

Parties and organizations

 Black Hundreds early 20th century (Defunct)
 Mladorossi (Defunct)
 Union of the Russian People (Defunct)
 Russian Fascist Party (Defunct)

See also

 All-Russian nation
 Moscow, third Rome
 Putinism
 Eurasianism
 Russian Fascist Organization
 Russian Fascist Party
 Russia for Russians
 Russian imperialism
 Russian irredentism
 Russian world
 Russification
 Russophilia

Bibliography