[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Peter Sweeney

Peter Henry Sweeney (born 25 September 1984) is a Scottish football manager, coach and former professional player.

Sweeney played as a midfielder and began his career at Millwall where he progressed through their youth team and broke into the first team. He played in the 2004 FA Cup Final were Millwall lost 3–0 to Manchester United. He joined Stoke City in the summer of 2005 for a fee of £250,000 but his start at Stoke was hampered by injuries. He struggled to fully recover and after spending time out on loan at Yeovil Town and Walsall he joined Leeds United in January 2008. After a brief spell at Elland Road Sweeney played for Grimsby Town, Bury, AFC Wimbledon, Dartford and Greenwich Borough.

Career

Millwall
Sweeney was born in Glasgow and moved with his family to London when he was three-years-old. He started his career at Millwall, where he made his debut in 2002, but he had to wait another year for his breakthrough. Sweeney played 34 times for Millwall in 2003–04 and he played a major role in the Lions' route to the 2004 FA Cup Final, where he started against Manchester United at the Millennium Stadium, Millwall lost 3–0. Following the cup final appearance, Millwall received a place in the UEFA Cup for the 2004–05 season, in which Sweeney played a part in the first round of the tournament, where they were defeated by Hungarian side Ferencvárosi.

Stoke City
On 1 July 2005 Sweeney signed for Stoke City for a fee of £250,000. His start at Stoke was hampered after he injured his back in a pre-season match against Newcastle Town, which ruled him out for the first three months of the 2005–06. Once he recovered from his injury Sweeney went on to play 20 times scoring once on the final day of the season against Brighton & Hove Albion.

He scored against Luton Town in a 2–2 draw early in the 2006–07 season but soon lost his place in the side and joined Yeovil Town on loan in January 2007. He played eight times for the Golvers before returning to Stoke in April 2007. On 22 November 2007 he signed a two-month loan deal at Walsall where he made seven appearances.

Leeds United
Early in the January 2008 transfer window Stoke accepted an undisclosed bid for the midfielder from Leeds United, with whom he swiftly agreed personally terms, and it was announced that he would sign, subject to a medical the following week. He finalised the move on 10 January, joining the club on a two–and–a–half–year deal. Despite starting in the last few games of Dennis Wise reign as Leeds manager, including making his debut away to Crewe and providing the assist for Jermaine Beckford's winning header, Sweeney failed to establish himself under managers Gary McAllister and Simon Grayson.

Grimsby Town
Sweeney made a loan move in March 2009 to Grimsby Town, signing until the end of the season, along with Bradford City forward Barry Conlon and fellow Leeds player Jonathan Lund. Sweeney went on to be part of a Grimsby side that would make a late surge in the league, and that would eventually stave off the threat of relegation from the Football League. Following the close of the 2008–09 season and the end of his loan spell, he was released from his contract at Leeds, following a one and a half year spell at the West Yorkshire club. On 3 July 2009, after much speculation, Sweeney re–signed for Grimsby on a two–year deal. He scored his first goal for The Mariners against Rotherham United in a 2–1 defeat at home. Sweeney then scored a superb volley against his former club Leeds in the third round of the Football League Trophy at Elland Road: a corner resulted in Leeds keeper Casper Ankergren punching the ball out to Sweeney, who smashed in a left foot volley from the edge of the area that crashed in off the underside of the crossbar; however Grimsby went on to lose the game 3–1. On 18 December, he scored another spectacular goal after hitting a dipping volley from the edge of the box in a 1–1 home draw with Morecambe. Sweeney continued to hold down a position in the centre of midfield throughout the 2009–10 season. On 12 May 2010, he was one of seven players placed on the transfer list by Grimsby manager Neil Woods after their relegation from the Football League.