[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mount Victoria railway station

ing

The overall integrity of the station and its buildings is high. The majority of the buildings at the station are intact with minor changes to their exteriors. Although modified, the barracks maintains their overall integrity at a moderate level. The footbridge has high integrity and intactness.

Modifications and dates 
1868 – 1884: Platform 2 station building extended to provide refreshment rooms with extended awning, rear awning removed
1891: Minor renovations and extension to awning of Platform 2 station building.
1898: Additions and repairs to Platform 2 station building.
1902: Improvements to Platform 2 station building.
1993: Internal upgrade works to Platform 1 and Platform 2 station buildings
N.d: Ticket window at south end of Platform 1 station building bricked up and the cantilevered balcony has most cast iron removed and is infilled with fibro and louvred windows.
N.d: Flush doors added to barracks building, internal layout altered, and the verandah enclosed with fibro and louvres.

Further information

Other structures
Located within the curtilage are various other 20th Century subsidiary structures, that have not been assessed as part of this listing. These include:
Carport/Gangshed – clad in sheet metal (Down side)
Section Hut – concrete drop-slab x 2 (Down side)
Decant Pump Shelter (Down side)
Possible Traction-section Hut (south of barracks)
Cleaners Amenities Building (north of barracks).

Transport links
Blue Mountains Transit operates one bus route via Mount Victoria station, under contract to Transport for NSW:
698V: to Katoomba

Heritage listing 
Mount Victoria Railway Station Group is of state significance as a large complex of buildings illustrating clearly the pattern of development of railway facilities in the Blue Mountains area. It is the most substantial railway station complex in the Blue Mountains and indicates the former importance of the location with the former locomotive depot (now demolished) to service terminating trains for railway tourism associated with Jenolan Caves and handling goods trains over the steep grades of the Blue Mountains, particularly the section to Lithgow. The structures indicate the importance of Mount Victoria as a health and holiday resort, the RRR accommodation provided in the station building reinforcing this.

The Mount Victoria Railway Station Group has a high degree of research potential for its ability to demonstrate construction techniques and architectural character of various types of buildings in one station. The station is a fine example of railway architecture including Victorian Regency and Federation buildings and is an important landmark in the townscape of Mt Victoria being located at the lower end of the town at the termination of the main street vista. The Mount Victoria Railway barracks is an unusual surviving example of a purpose-built rest-house still used by the railways for staff accommodation. The signal box is one of a few examples of brick on platform elevated signal boxes that remain in operation in the state. The footbridge is rare as an intact example of a standard Warren Truss trestle and stairway with channel iron stair stringers. The overall aesthetic character of the station is further enhanced by the setting of the station within the rock escarpment, a typical natural setting of the Blue Mountains stations, featuring a collection of numerous flora ranging from mature trees, shrubs and potted plants along both platforms.

The Mount Victoria Railway Station is associated with John Whitton, Engineer-in-Chief of the NSW Railways, as the original station building was built to a design from his time, and with George Cowdery, Engineer-in-Chief for Existing Lines, as the two-level stone addition containing the Railway Refreshment Room was built under his supervision.

Mount Victoria railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.