[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Wilhelm Kube

Wilhelm Kube (13 November 1887 – 22 September 1943) was a Nazi official and German politician. He was an important figure in the German Christian movement during the early years of Nazi rule. During the war he became a senior official in the occupying government of the Soviet Union, achieving the rank of Generalkommissar for Generalbezirk Weißruthenien. He was assassinated in Minsk in 1943 after participation in the Holocaust, triggering brutal reprisals against the citizens of Minsk.

An extreme antisemite and participant in numerous war crimes against Jewish people, he is known to have said about Jews: "What plague and syphilis are to humanity, are Jews to the white race." However, Kube behaved towards German Jews in a relatively mild way during his charge in Minsk, by trying—generally unsuccessfully—to protect German Jews, whom he felt as culturally closer, from extermination. As for Minsk, he planned to level the city and replace it with a German settlement, called Asgard.

Early life
Kube was born in Glogau (today's Głogów), Prussian Silesia, and studied history, economics and theology. In 1911 he received a Moses Mendelssohn Scholarship from the University of Berlin. Kube was active in the Völkisch movement as a student, and joined the Nazi Party in late 1927. From 1928 he was also leader of the tiny Nazi party faction (6 seats) in the Prussian Landtag (Prussian state legislature). Under his leadership it grew to be the largest party in the Landtag by 1932. On 1 February 1928, he was appointed Gauleiter of Ostmark with his seat at Frankfurt an der Oder. On 1 June 1933 this was merged with the neighboring Gau Brandenburg to form Gau Kurmark (later reorganized as the Gau March of Brandenburg) with its seat in Berlin. After the Nazis came to power, he was made Oberpräsident of the Prussian provinces of Brandenburg and Posen-West Prussia, thus uniting under his control the highest party and governmental offices in the provinces. On 14 September 1933, he was appointed to the Prussian State Council by Prussian Minister-President Hermann Göring. Kube joined the SS on 29 September 1933 with the rank of Oberführer and on 27 January 1934, he was promoted to SS-Gruppenführer. In November 1933 he was elected as a Nazi deputy to the Reichstag from electoral constituency 5, Frankfurt/Oder. On 9 September 1935, Kube was made a member of the Academy for German Law.

Nazification of Christianity
Kube remained an active Christian as well as a zealous Nazi, and in 1932 he organised the list of candidates of the Faith Movement of the German Christians for the ordinary election of presbyters and synodals within the Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union on 13 November that year. The German Christians then gained about a third of all seats in presbyteries and synods. Kube was elected as one of the presbyters of the congregation of Gethsemane Church in Berlin-Prenzlauer Berg. The presbyters elected him from their midst as synodal into the competent deanery synod (; Berlin then comprised 11 deaneries altogether), and these synodals again elected him a member of deanery synodal board (). When in 1933 the Nazis came to power he remained active in the German Christian movement which sought to "Nazify" the 28 Protestant church bodies in Germany. For 23 July 1933 Hitler ordered an unconstitutional, premature re-election of all presbyters and synodals, with the German Christians now gaining 70–80% of the seats, so Kube could then further advance as head of the Berlin synod of the old-Prussian Church. Following the German conquest of Poland in 1939 his Nazi party domain was extended to include Reichsgau Danzig-West Prussia and Reichsgau Wartheland.

Accusations and removal from office
In late 1935 the Supreme Party Court under Chairman Walter Buch, the father-in-law of Martin Bormann, began an investigation into Kube due to allegations of adultery and corruption in running his Gau, including nepotism, favoritism and a dictatorial management style. In December he was issued a letter of reprimand. Swearing revenge, Kube sent an anonymous letter claiming that Buch was married to a "half-Jew". This, of course, would have far-reaching implications not only for Buch but for Bormann, whose wife consequently also was accused of not being a pure Aryan. Kube was leveling serious charges at two Party Reichsleiters. In the course of a Gestapo investigation, it came to light that the letter had been written by Kube. Buch and Bormann saw to it that Kube was removed from all his posts on 7 August 1936. Only on Hitler's orders was he allowed to retain the title of Gauleiter, albeit without a Gau.  Furthermore, owing to a dispute with Reinhard Heydrich over a search conducted of Kube's mistress' apartment, Kube offered his resignation from the SS on 11 March 1936; he was officially discharged on 1 April.