[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 8th Armoured Brigade (United Kingdom)

Mareth Line, the Brigade was formed as follows:

On 14 March 1943, the Brigade passed from the command of XXX Corps to the New Zealand Corps, joining the 2nd New Zealand Division, the Free French, General Philippe Leclerc de Hauteclocque's forces from Chad (L Force) and the 1st Free French Brigade.

Following the failure of the frontal attack on the Mareth Line during the Tunisia Campaign by XXX Corps, an attempt was made by the New Zealand Corps to outflank the Axis positions in Operation Supercharge II. Initially unsuccessful, the 1st Armoured Division was despatched to reinforce this "Left-Hook". On 26 March, the brigade was launched towards El Hamma and penetrated deep into the Switch Line. Having gained all their objectives, the brigade drove through the gap and the Axis forces, pressed by a fresh frontal attack and in danger of being encircled, withdrew some  north-westwards to defensive positions around Wadi Akarit.

At the Battle of Wadi Akarit, which occurred from  the brigade first came up against the Tiger I (Panzerkampfwagen VI Tiger I). The Brigade, still supporting 2nd New Zealand Division, was next involved in the battles at Enfidaville and Takrouna. Following the capitulation of the Axis forces in North Africa on 13 May, the Brigade slowly made its way back to the Nile delta and then was transferred to Britain, arriving on 9 December 1943. After an extended leave, the brigade reassembled in the New Year and was informed of its role in the forthcoming invasion of Normandy.

The high level of experience gained by the brigade in North Africa contrasted with many of the other armoured units earmarked for the invasion; some of whom had not seen action since the fall of France in 1940. In an attempt to equalise the level of experience across the brigades, an exchange of units took place in February 1944, the 3rd Royal Tank Regiment was exchanged with the 29th Armoured Brigade, part of the inexperienced 11th Armoured Division, for the 24th Lancers and the Staffordshire Yeomanry was exchanged with the 27th Armoured Brigade for the 4th/7th Royal Dragoon Guards. Shortly thereafter, Brigadier Bernard Cracroft assumed command of the brigade, which now comprised:

Order of Battle D-Day
 4th/7th Royal Dragoon Guards (4/7 DG)
 24th Lancers (24L)
 Sherwood Rangers Yeomanry (SRY)
 147th (Essex Yeomanry) Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery
 12th Battalion, King's Royal Rifle Corps
 168th (City of London) Light Field Ambulance
 552nd Company Royal Army Service Corps
 8th Armoured Brigade Workshops R.E.M.E.
 265th Forward Delivery Squadron.

While the staffs were involved in the planning of the invasion, the men took part in intensive training exercises.

Operation Overlord (D-Day)

Gold Beach

Gold Beach was the Allied codename for the centre invasion beach during the Allied invasion of Normandy on 6 June 1944. It lay between Omaha Beach and Juno Beach, was 8 km wide and divided into four sectors. From west to east they were How, Item, Jig, and King.

The landing area was defended by elements of Generalleutnant Wilhelm Richter's 716th Static Infantry Division and the 1st Battalion of the 916th Infantry Regiment, which had been detached from Generalleutnant Dietrich Kraiss's 352nd Infantry Division.

Gold Beach was allocated to the British Second Army's XXX Corps. The actual assault was to be made by 50th (Northumbrian) Infantry Division, which had been reinforced with 56th Independent Infantry Brigade and supported by the 8th Armoured Brigade. The Division's primary objective was to seize the town of Bayeux, the Caen-Bayeux road, and the port of Arromanches; the secondary objectives being to make contact with the Americans landing at Omaha Beach to the West and the Canadians landing at Juno Beach to the East.

The 231st Infantry Brigade, followed by the 56th Infantry Brigade, landed in the west, with DD tanks from the Nottinghamshire Yeomanry (Sherwood Rangers) in support. The assault battalions were the 1st Battalion, Hampshire Regiment on Jig Green (west side) and the 1st Battalion, Dorset Regiment on Jig Green (east side).

The 69th Infantry Brigade, followed by 151st Infantry Brigade, landed in the east with DD tanks from the 4th/7th Royal Dragoon Guards in support. The assault battalions were the 5th Battalion, East Yorkshire Regiment on King Red and the 6th Battalion, Green Howards on King Green.

The Landings