[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yemeni unification

tment by the north. This has given birth to a popular movement called the South Yemen Movement which calls for the return of an independent southern state. In 2015, this time as a pawn in the proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran, Yemen again was engulfed in civil war, which continues to this day.

Integration
 The North Yemeni rial and the South Yemeni dinar remained legal tender during a transitional period. In 1991, the dinar was withdrawn from circulation, with 26 rial exchanged for one dinar. In 1993, the first coins were issued for the Republic of Yemen called Yemeni rials.
 The capital of the Republic of Yemen is North's old capital, Sana'a.
 The South's "United Republic" became the country's national anthem.
 September 26 and October 14 are both celebrated as Revolution Day, with the former celebrating the North's revolution against the imams and the latter celebrating the South's revolution against the British Empire.
 November 30 is celebrated as Independence Day, as it is the day the South gained independence from the British, as opposed to November 1, which was celebrated in the north as Independence Day from the Ottoman Empire.
 The Republic of Yemen kept the North's United Nations name, Yemen, as opposed to the South's Democratic Yemen.
 The Republic of Yemen accepts responsibility for all treaties and debts of its predecessors.
 The Republic of Yemen kept the South's system of Governorates (Muhafazah), and split the North's liwa (provinces) into smaller governorates, leaving the current Governorates of Yemen.
 The Republic of Yemen uses the North's calling code, +967, as opposed to the South's +969.
 The Republic of Yemen uses the North's ISO 3166-1 alphabetic codes (alpha-2: YE, alpha-3: YEM), as opposed to the South's (alpha-2: YD, alpha-3: YMD); a new numeric code was assigned for the unified country (887) to replace the old numeric codes (North: 886; South: 720), as is the custom for any merging of countries.

See also
 Southern Movement
 South Yemen insurgency
 Yemeni Socialist Party

References

External links
 Al-Bab, essays on Yemeni subjects
 Day, Stephen, Yemen on the Brink, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2010

1990 in Yemen
National unifications
North Yemen
South Yemen
1990 in politics
May 1990 events in Asia