[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mobile Brigade Corps

Si-kesjas)
Search and Rescue (SAR) Unit
Pelopor Regiment composed of:
 Regional Pelopor Regimental HQ
A Detachment (Den-A)
B Detachment (Den-B)
C Detachment (Den-C)
D Detachment (Den-D) (large departments only)
 Support units
Gegana Detachment (Den Gegana)
 Detachment HQ
 1-3 Subdetachments/Platoons

For some regional police headquarters, Pelopor detachments only consists up-to "C" Detachments only (3 battalions each). But for bigger regional police HQs such as the Jakarta Regional Metropolitan Police (Polda Metro Jaya), it consists up-to "D" Detachment with a total of four (4) detachments. Each Pelopor Detachment consists of 4 (four) Companies, and each Company consists of 3 (three) Platoons. The Gegana detachment is organized as a company in most police regions, but in larger ones is organized as a full battalion of two detachments and a headquarters unit.

Controversies

2020s
In the Kanjuruhan Stadium disaster on 1 October 2022, the police, especially Brimob as crowd control unit, were deployed tear gas, which triggered a stampede of people in the stadium trying to escape from the effects of the gas. A crush formed at an exit, resulting in fans being asphyxiated. The disaster claimed 135 lives, including two police officers and dozens of children under the age of 17. Several officers who operated the tear gas launcher were questioned. Only three officers, two high ranked officers (non-Brimob) and one Brimob commander, were accused in the trial. Of the three, only the Mobile Brigade Commander was sentenced. He was sentenced with 1 year and 6 months for violating Article 359, Article 360 paragraph 1, and Article 360 paragraph 2 of the Criminal Code (KUHP), namely as a result of his negligence causing the death of another person or injuring others. On 16 January 2023, Mobile Brigade members "intimidate" and disrupted the trial by chanting in the courtroom.

Gallery

See also
 Detachment 88 or Densus 88, Indonesian special counter-terrorism squad

References

External links 
 Video about Brimob
 51 Tahun Si Baret Biru
  February 1962 – Summer 1963: In to Action
 Gegana Operators In Action on Instagram

1946 establishments in Indonesia
Specialist law enforcement agencies of Indonesia
Non-military counterterrorist organizations
Bomb disposal
Non-military counterinsurgency organizations