[Source: PubMed]

86. Dan Medicinhist Arbog. 2008;36:133-54.

[An international medical expert committee's participation in uncovering the 
truth on the liquidation of Polish officers found in mass graves at Katyn in the 
spring of 1943 and the biography of a Danish participant, Helge Tramsen 
(1910-1979)].

[Article in Danish]

Rosdahl N.

The article is based on a paper read as a invited speaker at a conference, 
entitled "Medical experts and expertise in cases of humanitarian crises 
"convened by the University of Geneva and the Committee of the International Red 
Cross in April 2007. The article starts with an overview of Polish history from 
the end of World War I up to the disclosure of the mass graves in the spring of 
1943, but is otherwise a translation of the original English lecture with some 
additions from new findings.in archives. Helge tramsen was born into a bourgois 
family in Copenhagen. After graduation in medicine from the University of 
Copenhegen in 1936 he married a British woman and joined the naval medical corps 
and also embarked on a surgical career.. From 1940 to 1943 he was prosector at 
the Institute of Forensic Medicine at the University of Copenhagen. After the 
finding of the mass graves at Katyn, Germany requested from a number of European 
countries under German control forensic experts to join an international 
commission to investigate the findings. As the professor of forensic medicine 
declined perobably due to health reasons Tramsen was sent. During the German 
occupation of Denmark 1940 to 1945 Tramsen according to family tradition 
participated in the resistance movement and he consulted with members of the 
more conservative part of it and was recommended to go to Germany with an added 
purpose of being able to transport material out of Germany. He went with special 
plane from Copenhagen to Berlin, where he joined the international group, which 
later flew to Smolensk via Warszawa. He conducted a post mortem on the body of a 
Polish officer, selected by himself. Following that he attended in the 
discussion on the final report, which later in Berlin was handed over to the 
German minister of health, and which later formed an important part of the 
official German material accusing the USSR for the killing. During his stay in 
Berlin he claimed to have collected material, which in his opinion was drawings 
of the Eder Möwe dams and brought it back to Copenhagen with the severed head of 
the body of the Polish officer, on which he has carried out the post mortem. 
After Tramsen's return to Denmark, a British agent obtained his travel report 
and sent it to London and he later obtained additional information from Tramsen 
on the unanimous and voluntary conclusion of the experts. No information on the 
drawings and the head can be found in British archives. According to Tramsen's 
own account as a naval officer on activities during the occupation, he 
participated in sabotage actions, but that can not be substantiated by other 
sources. However, he participated in July 1944 in an attach on a fortress north 
of Copenhagen, held by the German Navy; the attach failed, and Transen went 
under ground, but later returned to his flat in Copenhagen, where he was taken 
prisoner by German security police. As prisoner he underwent torture and was 
subjected to mocked execution. He was transferred to a concentration camp, but 
probably due to the intervention by the permanent secretary of the Danish 
Foreign office, which after the Danish Government has stopped functioning in 
August 1943 kept the administration running and retained contacts with the 
German occupation authorities, Tramsen was not sent to a concentration camp in 
Germany, where survival rates were very low, but to one in Denmark. After the 
German defeat in May 1945 Tramsen continued his career in surgery, but went into 
general practice in Copenhagen in 1947, when he also obtained a permanent 
position in the naval medical service., where he remained until normal 
retirement in 1970, in the latter part as the highest ranking medical naval 
officer. He also served as medical chief at the Danish hospital ship Jutlandia 
serving as Danish contribution to the UN off the coast of Korea during the 
Korean war. He also attended as representative of the Danish Ministry of Defence 
the conference on the revision of the Geneva Conventions. No doubt Tramsen 
feared Soviet retaliation, but on the other hand he also showed courage by 
giving evidence at the US congressional hearings in 1952, where he confirmed 
that there had been no German pressure on the participants, and their 
conclusions had been voluntary and unanimous. He also gave an interview on Radio 
Free Europe transmitted to Poland in 1962. in which he desribed his experiences 
in Katyn. In 1971 his eldest daughter died in Warsaw, offially by carbon-monoxid 
poisoning from a gas heater. In theory it could be an accident, homicide or 
suicide. He felt it could be a revenge and in his grief he felt responsible and 
had a nervous break down. He died from a somatic illness in 1979 and during his 
terminal illness he told about his experiences from the war to a nephew.

PMID: 19831295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]