[Source: PubMed]

3. Front Psychiatry. 2024 Jun 7;15:1396228. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2024.1396228. 
eCollection 2024.

The prevalence of PTSD and coping strategies among Palestinian mental health 
professionals during political violence and wartime.

Ahmead M(1), Abu Turki M(#)(1), Fawadleh L(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Public Health, Al Quds University, Jerusalem, Palestine.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: In times of war, mental health professionals are at an increased 
risk of developing psychological problems, including posttraumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD). The effects of conflicts or wars on mental health professionals 
in Palestine and their coping methods of dealing with these challenges remain 
unknown. This study aimed to assess the prevalence of PTSD symptoms and 
strategies for coping among mental health professionals in Palestine, in light 
of the ongoing Gaza war and political violence.
METHODS: The study utilized a cross-sectional research design. Self-reported 
questionnaires, including the PCL-5 and Brief COPE scales, were used to gather 
data. The relationship between the research variables and PTSD symptoms was 
investigated using frequencies, percentages, bivariate analysis, Pearson 
correlation, and Pearson's chi-square test.
RESULTS: A total of 514 participants were recruited, with an estimated 
prevalence of PTSD of 38.7%. Furthermore, the multivariate analysis revealed 
that having a prior history of trauma and feeling disabled or unable to deal 
with your patients during the current Gaza war and Israeli-Palestinian political 
violence increases the likelihood of developing PTSD symptoms. In addition, 
using venting, self-blame, and behavioral disengagement as coping strategies 
increases the likelihood of developing symptoms of PTSD. Moreover, using 
acceptance and substance use as coping strategies reduces the risk of developing 
PTSD symptoms.
CONCLUSION: The findings revealed a high prevalence of PTSD symptoms among 
mental health professionals during wartime and political violence. As a result, 
mental health professionals need immediate assistance in enhancing their mental 
wellbeing through supervision, psychotherapy, and comprehensive and continuous 
training.

Copyright © 2024 Ahmead, Abu Turki and Fawadleh.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2024.1396228
PMCID: PMC11190315
PMID: 38911708

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.