[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alpha Epsilon Pi

New Member Educator — Pledge Master

National controversies, local chapter or member misconduct

Reassertion of Jewish focus
Alpha Epsilon Pi's mission statement describing a "non-discriminatory fraternity" has occasionally come under fire, particularly under former Executive Director Andrew Borans:

 In 1990, Alpha Epsilon Pi's Mu Tau chapter at MIT decided to disband their chapter after the international fraternity kicked out 45 of 55 members of the chapter. Members believed it was largely in part due to the international fraternity's desire to use a member review process to re-align the chapter as a Jewish fraternity. Joseph P. Wong, former vice president of the chapter who was invited to stay, was quoted saying "AEPi is inherently discriminatory and does not deserve a place on this campus". Soon after, the national fraternity successfully rebuilt its Mu Tau chapter, with an emphasis on its Jewish heritage. Meanwhile, the brothers who'd been removed went on to form a local chapter, which, five years later was admitted en masse to become the restored Epsilon Theta chapter of Sigma Nu on the campus, which was also successful.
 In 1998, members of UCLA's Xi Deuteron chapter dropped out, stating that the international organization was "discriminatory against non-Jewish pledges".
 In 2009, the Mu chapter at University of Virginia was shut down, with members claiming the international fraternity told them they "weren't Jewish enough".
 In 2015, the Beta Rho chapter at Brown University disaffiliated with Alpha Epsilon Pi, citing mistreatment of non-Jewish members by their international organization, and a lack of emphasis by the international organization on sexual assault education.

Local chapter or member misconduct
 In 2016, a freshman female student at the College of Charleston, site of ΑΕΠ's Chi Omicron chapter, sued the fraternity after she stated she was disrobed, served drugs and alcohol, and raped while one of the fraternity members recorded the assault on his cellphone during the fraternity's Bid Day celebration party. Her lawsuit states she had been seeking unspecified damages for her "serious personal injuries" that have required hospitalization, doctor's care, and other treatment. As a result of the lawsuit, two fraternity members, Timothy Eli Seppi, and James F. West III, identified in the incident were arrested and released on bail and the fraternity charter was revoked.
 In 2019, the Upsilon Alpha chapter at the University of Arizona was kicked off campus for code-of-conduct violations. including alcohol use, hazing, and bodily harm to pledges.
 In 2019, the Epsilon chapter at Emory University was mandated to shut down for at least two years due to hazing pledges and alcohol violations.
 In 2020, several members left the Upsilon Kappa Alpha chapter at the University of St Andrews after more than twelve posts alleging rapes and sexual assaults were posted anonymously through social media, but in the absence of any formal complaint no member was expelled.

International organization structure
AEPi is governed by the Supreme Board of Governors.

The Alpha Epsilon Pi Foundation is the charitable arm of the organization. It directs the philanthropic affairs of the fraternity, supports projects of a Jewish and fraternal nature, and provides support for the individual chapters and colonies. They work very closely with the Director of Jewish Programming.

The Executive Office is made up of the professional staff that oversees the day-to-day functions of the fraternity. The current Chief Executive Officer is Rob Derdiger

The Supreme Board of Governors is made up of 11 positions: Supreme Master (President); Supreme Master-Elect (President-Elect/VP); Supreme Scribe (Secretary); Supreme Exchequer (Treasurer); Supreme Sentinel (Sergeant-at-Arms); five Supreme Governors at-large (other alumni members); and the Immediate Past Supreme Master

The Supreme Board of Governors makes the majority of decisions for the fraternity's well-being and meets semi-annually to discuss matters of importance, including the granting of charters.

Leadership input to the SBG from the undergraduate membership is accepted from The Undergraduate Cabinet, whose members are elected annually in the winter.

Notable alumni