[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dutch Island (Rhode Island)

ed two pounds of the wrong powder into Fort Greble's reveille gun on 2 April 1912, which typically used only 4 ounces or 8 tablespoons of black powder, and the breech blew up when he pulled the lanyard. His wounds were fatal, and his grave is located in Jamestown's town cemetery on Narragansett Ave.

World Wars 1 and 2
The fort was home to as many as 495 soldiers during World War I under the command of Colonel Charles Foster Tillinghast Sr. Several of its guns were dismounted for potential service on the Western Front in 1917-18. One 10-inch gun of Battery Hale was dismounted for conversion to a railway gun; it was replaced by a similar gun from Fort Wetherill in late 1918. The three 6-inch guns of Battery Mitchell were dismounted in 1917 and sent to France for use on wheeled carriages; they were not returned to Fort Greble. None of the 6-inch gun regiments completed training before the Armistice of 11 November 1918 and thus did not see combat. Four of Battery Sedgwick's eight 12-inch mortars were dismounted in 1918 for potential use as railway artillery and to improve reloading efficiency.

Battery Ogden's 3-inch guns were withdrawn from service in 1920 as part of a general retirement of the M1898 3-inch guns. The fort was active till the mid-1920s as part of the Coast Defenses of Narragansett Bay. It was placed in caretaker status because the fort's cisterns were defective and could not hold sufficient water to support the garrison.

During World War II, Fort Greble was used as a German prisoner-of-war camp and was discontinued from service in 1947. The fort's guns were scrapped in 1942 once improved defenses were constructed centered on Fort Church and Fort Greene.

Since World War 2
There have been no redevelopment or preservation efforts on Dutch Island since World War 2, and it has been used as a training site for the Rhode Island National Guard. The island is owned by the State of Rhode Island and is designated as a wildlife management area by the state's Department of Environmental Management (DEM). In 2016, the Army Corps of Engineers completed a project to mitigate safety hazards on the island.

Gallery

See also
 Seacoast defense in the United States
 United States Army Coast Artillery Corps

References

 Dutch Island: Block 4050, Census Tract 415, Newport County, Rhode Island United States Census Bureau
 Dutch Island Lighthouse History
 Lighthouse Details 
 
 Frederic Denlson, Narragansett Sea and Shore, (J.A. & R.A. Reid, Providence, RI., 1879)
 
 
 George L. Seavey, Rhode Island's Coastal Natural Areas.

External links

 List of all US coastal forts and batteries at the Coast Defense Study Group, Inc. website
 FortWiki, lists all CONUS and Canadian forts

Islands of Newport County, Rhode Island
Jamestown, Rhode Island
Islands of Narragansett Bay
New Netherland
Forts in Rhode Island
Former Dutch colonies
Fur trade
1636 establishments in Rhode Island
1636 establishments in the Dutch Empire
World War II prisoner-of-war camps in the United States
Islands of Rhode Island