[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Win Mercer

Though he had eight major league seasons behind him, Mercer was only 27 years old at the start of the 1902 season.  He started 33 games for the Tigers and had 28 complete games.  His ERA of 3.04 was the best of his career.  His four shutouts in 1902 were second in the American League to Addie Joss.

Death
After the conclusion of the 1902 season, the Tigers appointed the 28-year-old Mercer to be their player-manager for 1903.  However, on January 12, 1903, after a barnstorming tour through the west, Mercer checked into the Occidental Hotel in San Francisco and killed himself by inhaling illuminating gas at age 28.  Mercer's suicide gained national attention, and there were conflicting reports about the reasons for the suicide.  The Sporting News reported that Mercer had been gambling and apparently saw no way to make the deficit good.  According to this version, his losses included not only his own money but the funds of other players, with estimates ranging from $3,000 to $8,000.  Another report rejected the idea of gambling debts and blamed the suicide on a relationship with a woman.  Some reports indicated that Mercer left a suicide note warning of the evils of women and gambling.  There is no known substantiation for these reports, and The New York Times reported on Mercer's death as follows: "[Mercer] registered at the Occidental Hotel last evening.  He was found asphyxiated in his room to-day.  Mercer registered under the name George Murray and gave his residence as Philadelphia. The watchman of the hotel in making his rounds detected the odor of gas coming from Mercer's room and broke down the door.  Mercer was on the bed with his coat and waistcoat covering his head; and a tube ran from the gas jet into his mouth.  Among the papers found in the room was one which read: 'Tell Mr. Van Horn of the Langham Hotel that Winnie Mercer has taken his life.'  Mercer was a sufferer of pulmonary troubles, and as the disease refused to yield to treatment he became despondent. He left a statement of his financial accounts, showing that he owed no money. He was twenty-eight years old...."

Mercer was laid to rest at Riverview Cemetery in East Liverpool, Ohio.

See also

 List of Major League Baseball annual saves leaders
 List of Major League Baseball career hit batsmen leaders
 List of baseball players who died during their careers

References

External links
Baseball Almanac

 Tom Deveaux, The Washington Senators 1901–1971 (McFarland & Co. 2001)
 Bruch Nash and Allan Zullo, "Turnstile Turnoffs: The Most Undignified Ballpark Promotions", in The Baseball Hall of Shame (Pocket Books 1985).

1874 births
1903 suicides
1903 deaths
Major League Baseball pitchers
Baseball players from West Virginia
People from Chester, West Virginia
Washington Senators (1891–1899) players
New York Giants (NL) players
Washington Senators (1901–1960) players
Detroit Tigers players
19th-century baseball players
Suicides in California
Suicides by gas
Dover (minor league baseball) players