[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Uranium mining

cks and the natural process of uranium dissolved from the surface area of the ocean floor, both of which maintain the solubility equilibria of seawater concentration at a stable level. Some commentators have argued that this strengthens the case for nuclear power to be considered a renewable energy.

Co-product/by-product 
Uranium  can  be  recovered  as  a  by-product  along  with  other  co-products  such  as  molybdenum,  vanadium,  nickel,  zinc  and  petroleum  products. Uranium is also often found in phosphate minerals, where it has to be removed because phosphate is mostly used for fertilizers. Phosphogypsum is a waste product from phosphate mining that can contain significant amounts of uranium and radium. Coal fly ash also contains significant amounts of uranium and has been suggested as a source for uranium extraction.

Resources 
Uranium occurs naturally in many rocks, and even in seawater. However, like other metals, it is seldom sufficiently concentrated to be economically recoverable.
Like any resource, uranium cannot be mined at any desired concentration. No matter the technology, at some point it is too costly to mine lower grade ores.
Mining companies usually consider concentrations greater than 0.075% (750 ppm) as ore, or rock economical to mine at current uranium market prices.
There are around 40 trillion tons of uranium in Earth's crust, but most is distributed at trace concentration over its  mass.
Estimates of the amount concentrated into ores affordable to extract for under $130 per kg can be less than a millionth of that total.

Uranium-235, the fissile isotope of uranium used in nuclear reactors, makes up about 0.7% of uranium from ore. It is the only naturally occurring isotope capable of directly generating nuclear power.
While uranium-235 can be "bred" from , a natural decay product of  present at 55 ppm in all natural uranium samples, uranium-235 is ultimately a finite non-renewable resource.
Due to the currently low price of uranium, the majority of commercial light water reactors operate on a "once through fuel cycle" which leaves virtually all the energy contained in the original , which makes up over 99% of natural uranium, unused. Nuclear reprocessing can recover part of that energy by producing MOX fuel or Remix Fuel for use in conventional power generating light water reactors. This technology is currently used at industrial scale in France, Russia and Japan. However, at current uranium prices, this is widely deemed uneconomical if only the "input" side is considered.

Breeder reactor technology could allow the current reserves of uranium to provide power for humanity for billions of years, thus making nuclear power a sustainable energy.

Reserves 

Reserves are the most readily available resources.
About 96% of the global uranium reserves are found in these ten countries: Australia, Canada, Kazakhstan, South Africa, Brazil, Namibia, Uzbekistan, the United States, Niger, and Russia.

The known uranium resources represent a higher level of assured resources than is normal for most minerals. Further exploration and higher prices will certainly, on the basis of present geological knowledge, yield further resources as present ones are used up. There was very little uranium exploration between 1985 and 2005, so the significant increase in exploration effort that we are now seeing could readily double the known economic resources. On the basis of analogies with other metal minerals, a doubling of price from price levels in 2007 could be expected to create about a tenfold increase in measured resources, over time.

Known conventional resources 
Known conventional resources are resources that are known to exist and easy to mine.
In 2006, there were about 4 million tons of conventional resources.
In 2011, this increased to 7 million tonnes.
Exploration for uranium has increased: from 1981 to 2007, annual exploration expenditures grew modestly, from US$4 million to US$7 million. This increased to US$11 million in 2011.

The world's largest deposits of uranium are found in three countries.
Australia has just over 30% of the world's reasonably assured resources and inferred resources of uranium – about .
Kazakhstan has about 12% of the world's reserves, or about .
Canada has  of uranium, representing about 9%.