[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ambassador Theatre (New York City)

ssador's theatrical license was restored in August 1943, just before the opening of a third and final revival of Blossom Time, which ran only 47 performances. This was followed by a set of Gilbert and Sullivan plays in early 1944, as well as transfers of Decision and School For Brides the same year.

The Ambassador was leased to Joseph and Sam Siritzky in August 1945 for film screenings. The Siritzkys' lease was to run for at least five years, with options for extensions. The Ambassador was used as a movie house and as a radio and television studio for the next 11 years. The operators instituted a policy of screening foreign films in November 1946, starting with the French film Carmen. For the next three years, the theater was used exclusively for screening foreign films. The Siritzkys suspended their operations at the Ambassador in mid-1950 and departed to France. That August, DuMont Television Network signed a five-year lease for the Ambassador and immediately began remodeling it for use as a broadcast studio. The wooden stage was resurfaced with a smooth finish of magnesium chloride, and a partitioned control room was added. DuMont opened its studio in September 1950 and used the Ambassador for telecasting.

Broadway revival

1950s to 1970s 
In July 1956, the Shuberts announced that they would restore the Ambassador to legitimate-theater use. The comedy The Loud Red Patrick, which opened that October, was the first production at the reopened theater. Generally, the productions of the revived Ambassador were no more successful than those that were staged in the theater's original Broadway run. In 1957, the Ambassador hosted Eugenia with Tallulah Bankhead; a transfer of the long-running The Diary of Anne Frank; and the murder drama Compulsion with Dean Stockwell, Roddy McDowall, and Ina Balin. This was followed in 1958 by a limited run of Back to Methuselah with Faye Emerson and Tyrone Power, as well as Comes a Day with Judith Anderson and George C. Scott (the latter in his Broadway debut). The next year, Jean Dixon, Melvyn Douglas, and E. G. Marshall performed in The Gang's All Here.

The long-running Paddy Chayefsky play The Tenth Man transferred from the Booth Theatre in 1961, ending its two-year run at the Ambassador. Subsequently, the theater hosted A Passage to India and the Joseph Hayes drama Calculated Risk in 1962. Another transfer, Stop the World – I Want to Get Off, was staged at the Ambassador in 1963, followed by Ira Wallach's Absence of a Cello the next year. The Ambassador also hosted limited concert engagements from the Paul Taylor Dance Company and Charles Aznavour in 1965. The theater then hosted The Lion in Winter with Robert Preston and Rosemary Harris in 1966, as well as Robert Anderson's collection of one-act plays, You Know I Can't Hear You When the Water's Running, starting in 1967. The Ambassador ended the decade with runs of Joseph Heller's We Bombed in New Haven in 1968 and Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's Celebration in 1969.

The Ambassador hosted various types of productions in the 1970s, ranging from adaptations of children's stories to musical parodies. First was a revival of Sandy Wilson's The Boy Friend, featuring Judy Carne and Sandy Duncan, in 1970. This was followed by Paul Sills' Story Theatre the same year. which played in repertory with Sills's Metamorphoses near the end of its run. The Ambassador also hosted Melvin Van Peebles's musical Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death in 1971, as well as a revival of Scapino with Jim Dale in 1974. The Ambassador hosted three solo productions in the mid-1970s: Me and Bessie with Linda Hopkins (1975); I Have a Dream with Billy Dee Williams (1976); and Miss Margarida's Way with Estelle Parsons (1977). The theater's other productions of that decade included Godspell in 1976 and Eubie! in 1978.

1980s to present