[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rajanpur District

tock was almost washed away, while livestock suffered considerable loss. Affected people faced critical conditions and had suffered economically for at least one whole year as their crops were damaged on a large scale. According to the effects, flood was more massive than the one, some 40 years ago.

Places
Mithankot is the shrine of the great Sufi Saraiki poet Khawaja Ghulam Farid. It is the historical place in Kot Mithan. Thousands of his disciples come to Rajanpur every year on the anniversary of Khawaja Ghulam Farid.

Fazilpur is the shrine of great Peer/Sufi Chan Charagh Shah Sain, a.k.a. Ghorrey Shah Sain. It is the historical place in Fazilpur. Fazilpur is situated in the center (heart) of Rajanpur district. And its importance in district Rajanpur is like a heart in every field, especially politics. Major caste living in Fazilpur are Bhutta, Gopang, Bosan, Mastoi, Mohajir (Yusafzai, Sherwani, Lodhi, Qureshi), Mashori,  Dreshak, Korai, Thaheem, Bhatti, Zargar(Sunara) and Mughal Pathan.

Harrand Fort, built in the British era, is situated in the tribal area of Rajanpur.

Basti-Abdullah, named after Maulana Muhammad Abdullah and is also noted for being the resting place of Abdul Rashid Ghazi.

Lalgarh is situated in the foot-hills of Suleman Range mountains. It is HQ of Gorchani tribe. It is a small village, having a population of about 3000 inhabitants. Government offices include a police station, a higher secondary school, a girl's middle school, a civil dispensary, a veterinary dispensary, a telephone exchange & NADRA office.

Maari is the resort hill station in Rajanpur, similar to Muree. Its altitude is 4800  ft. It has freezing weather in summer. Dragal mountain is an altitude of .

Ada Chiragh Shah is situated on the Indus Highway. There is a shrine of Baba Chiragh Shah, a Sufi peer.

Muhammad Pur Emergency Service Rescue 1122 is fully operational in Muhammad Pur district of Punjab.

See also
Sardar Kaure Khan Jatoi

References

External links
 Rajanpur District

Districts of Punjab, Pakistan
1982 establishments in Pakistan