[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Crime prevention

which means there is little evidence to demonstrate their effectiveness.

An evaluation of a programme which worked work mothers in London to reduce situational risk of child sexual abuse in the home illustrated some of the challenges that mothers faced in identifying and reducing situational risk:

 Increasing understanding about abuse, how and where it happens. 
 Accepting the possibility of abuse at home and in the family.
 Accurately assessing the risks posed to one's own children.
 Lowering known risks by negotiating with family members.

Situational crime prevention and fraud
In computer systems that have been developed to design out crime from the environment, one of the tactics used is risk assessment, where business transactions, clients and situations are monitored for any features that indicate a risk of criminal activity. Credit card fraud has been one of the most complex crimes worldwide in recent times and despite numerous prevention initiatives, it is clear that more needs to be done if the problem is to be solved. Fraud management comprises a whole range of activities, including early warning systems, signs and patterns of different types of fraud, profiles of users and their activities, security of computers and avoiding customer dissatisfaction. There are a number of issues that make the development of fraud management systems an extremely difficult and challenging task, including the huge volume of data involved; the requirement for fast and accurate fraud detection without inconveniencing business operations; the ongoing development of new fraud to evade existing techniques; and the risk of false alarms.

Generally, fraud detection techniques fall into two categories: statistical techniques and artificial intelligence techniques.

Important statistical data analysis techniques to detect fraud include:
 Grouping and classification to determine patterns and associations among sets of data. 
 Matching algorithms to identify irregularities in the transactions of users compared to previous proof
 Data pre-processing techniques for validation, correction of errors and estimating incorrect or missing data.

Important AI techniques for fraud management are:
 Data mining – to categorise and group data and automatically identify associations and rules that may be indicative of remarkable patterns, including  those connected to fraud.
 Specialist systems to programme expertise for fraud detection in the shape of rules.
 Pattern recognition to identify groups or patterns of behaviour either automatically or to match certain inputs.
 Machine learning techniques to automatically detect the characteristics of fraud
 Neural networks that can learn suspicious patterns and later identify them.

Applications

Neighborhoods can implement protective strategies to reduce violent crime. The broken windows theory of crime suggests that disorderly neighborhoods can promote crime by showing they have inadequate social control. Some studies have indicated that modifying the built environment can reduce violent crime. This includes deconcentrating high-rise public housing, making zoning changes, restricting the number of liquor licenses available in an area, and keeping vacant lots and buildings maintained and secure.

See also
 Crime displacement
 Predictive policing
 Preventive state

Notes

Bibliography