[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pedro Lemebel

began to attract the interest of various universities and international educational institutions.

That same year he also participated in the Festival of Guadalajara, Mexico, in replacement of Bolaño who had rejected the offer, and accepted praise for his work of the famous writer Carlos Monsiváis.

In 2001 he published his first novel Tengo miedo torero a difficult story of contextualized love during the attempt on the life of Augusto Pinochet (7 September 1986). For the presentation of the book, Lemebel arrived in a red dress with a feathered headdress, at a ceremony with many people that was public including politicians, filmmakers, journalists and a few writers. The book would later gain international recognition after being translated into English by Katherine Silver, then French and Italian.

In 2003 he continued his work as a journalist, publishing his anthology of Chronicles Zanjón de la Aguada, that spoke of the gay community in neighborhoods of distinctive social classes in Santiago and where appeared some real people like the social leader and president of the Agrupación de Familiares de Detenidos Desaparecidos (AFDD) Sola Sierra. This work was followed a year later by Adios Mariquita Linda, another anthology of chronicles that maintained the same tendencies of his previous works.

In 2008 his sixth book of chronicles appeared, titled Serenata Carfiola.

On November 29, 2012, Lemebel participated in the "Feria del Libro de Guadalajara," publishing his new book of chronicles, titled Háblame de amores, showing a dramatization of his work "Susurrucucu Paloma."

On September 4, 2013, Lemebel was awarded the "Premio José Donoso," which he dedicated to his mother, the deceased Gladys Marín, and his readers belonging to the working class.

List of works
 La esquina es mi corazón.
 Loco afán: Crónicas de sidario (chronicles). Santiago: LOM, 1996.
 De perlas y cicatrices (chronicles). Santiago: LOM, 1998.
 Tengo miedo torero (novel). Santiago: Grupo Editorial Planeta, 2001. (Translated as My Tender Matador by Katherine Silver, published by Grove in 2005.)
 La esquina es mi corazón (chronicles). Santiago: Seix Barral, 2001.
 Zanjón de la Aguada. Santiago: Seix Barral, 2003.
 Adiós, mariquita linda.
 Serenata cafiola.
 Háblame de amores.
 Poco hombre.
 Mi amiga Gladys.
 Tengo miedo torero (script), 2015. (Translated as My Tender Matador for the film.)

Unedited works and posthumous publications

In an interview in 2013, during the publication of the anthology Poco Hombre , Pedro Lemebel announced he was working on two literary projects that would soon see the light and then, after his death, they were truncated: one of them is Mi Amiga Gladys, a book of chronicles about Gladys Marín, leader and representative of the Communist Party of Chile and was deceased in 2005.

Josephina Alemparte, editor of Seal Planet, declared that the book was going to be presented at the book fair of Santiago but for health reasons this was postponed. Finally, the Planet editorial published the book on the second of November in the year 2016. At the end of the same month they published Arder, a book that is compiled of images of the homonymous exposure and that extensively gathered his audio visual work.

Likewise he also announced the publication of a box set of all his books since La Esquina es mi corazón (1995) and until Háblame de Armores (2012) (possibly including Mi Amiga Gladys, 2016) and a documentary addressed to Joanna Reposi, that contains seven years of records.

Another book that was found was titled El éxtasis de delinquir, that would be his second book since Tengo miedo torero (2001). This work centers in the history of Patricio Egaña, who provided drugs to Claudio Spiniak. Since the year 2011 he began to mention in interviews that he was writing a new novel intended for release in 2016 or 2017 to be published by the Planet editorial.

Awards and prizes 
 1983: First Prize in the Contest of the Compensation Fund of Javier Carrera for "Porque el tiempo está cerca"
 1999: Guggenheim Fellowship
 2002: Nominated for the Altazor Award for "Tengo miedo torero"
 2004: Nominated for the Altazor Award for "Zanjón de la Aguada"
 2006: Nominated for the Altazor Award in Literary Essay for "Adiós, mariquita linda"
 2006: Anna Seghers-Preis
 2006: Nominated for the Altazor Award for the theatrical version of "Tengo miedo torero"
 2013: Nominated for the Altazor Award in Essays and Memoirs for "Háblame de amores"
 2013: :es:Premio José Donoso
 2014: Nominated for the Altazor Award in Essays and Memoirs for "Poco hombre"
 2014: Nominated for the Chilean National Prize for Literature