[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Eikev

from God. And the external circumstances that bring about success depend on God alone. Hirsch taught that the very smallest part of one's good fortune can be ascribed to one's own merit, and more is due to the merit of one's ancestors, whose virtues God rewards with their descendants' good fortune.

Reading Deuteronomy 8:11–18, Nechama Leibowitz wrote that people in their blindness tend to detect the guiding hand of Providence only when manifested in visible miracles, as the Israelites witnessed in the wilderness. People fail to see the hidden miracles performed for them continually when the world around them seems to be going on as usual. For this reason, the formulators of the liturgy obliged Jews to give thanks three times daily (in the final benedictions of the Amidah prayer) "for Your miracles that are with us every day and for Your wonders and Your bounties that are at all times, evening, morning, and noon."

Deuteronomy chapter 10
In Deuteronomy 10:22, Moses reported that God had made the Israelites as numerous as the stars, echoing Genesis 15:5, in which God promised that Abraham's descendants would be as numerous as the stars of heaven, and Genesis 22:17, in which God promised that Abraham's descendants would be as numerous as the stars of heaven and the sands on the seashore. Carl Sagan reported that there are more stars in the universe than sands on all the beaches on the Earth.

Deuteronomy chapter 11
Nathan MacDonald reported some dispute over the meaning of the description of the Land of Israel as a "land flowing with milk and honey," as in Exodus 3:8 and 17, 13:5, and 33:3, Leviticus 20:24, Numbers 13:27 and 14:8]; and Deuteronomy 6:3; 11:9; 26:9, 15; 27:3; and 31:20. MacDonald wrote that the term for milk (, chalav) could easily be the word for "fat" (, chelev), and the word for honey (, devash) could indicate not bees' honey but a sweet syrup made from fruit. The expression evoked a general sense of the bounty of the land and suggested an ecological richness exhibited in a number of ways, not just with milk and honey. MacDonald noted that the expression was always used to describe a land that the people of Israel had not yet experienced, and thus characterized it as always a future expectation.

Donald Englert suggested that "water with your foot" in Deuteronomy 11:10 may have been a euphemism for “to urinate.”

Walter Brueggemann argued that the "if-then" structure of Deuteronomy 11:13–17, a trademark rhetorical feature of the Deuteronomic tradition, makes clear that the gift of the land was not an automatic given but a consequence of obedience. The double "if-then" of Deuteronomy 11:13–17 linked land and obedience, making the gift of the land conditional. First, Deuteronomy 11:13–15 says the positive "if-then"—stating the "if" of obedience in familiar cadences bespeaking total commitment in two standard verbs ("love" and "serve") plus the formula from the Shema in Deuteronomy 6:4. The "then," the consequence of obedience, is abundant rain in every season that will cause the land to produce everything needed, made explicit through three phrases—first, "grain, wine, oil," a common triad to signal a rich, productive economy (see Hosea 2:8, 22]); second, the pasture land for cattle on which the agrarian economy depended (see Psalms 50:10, 104:14); and third, the rhetoric of satiation from Deuteronomy 6:11. Then Deuteronomy 11:16–17 follows with the negative "if-then"—the "if" being the nullification in Deuteronomy 11:16 of the Shema of Deuteronomy 6:4, the compromise of covenantal identity by embracing other gods who seem better at giving rain while making lesser demands. And the negative "then" being drought, as rain is God's gift (see Job 38:25–30; Leviticus 26:19–20; Deuteronomy 28:23–24; Amos 4:7–8; and Psalm 107:35–38). Brueggemann wrote that because of the urgency of obedience, Deuteronomy 11:18–21 returns to the educational accent of Deuteronomy 6:4–9, urging the internalizing of passionate covenantal conviction among the young through the mandate to produce signs, emblems, conversations, and marked doorposts and gates.

Commandments
According to Sefer ha-Chinuch, there are 6 positive and 2 negative commandments in the parashah.
Not to derive benefit from any ornamentation of an idol
Not to take any object from idolatry into our possession, to derive benefit from it
The precept of blessing the Almighty for the food we receive
The precept of love for converts to Judaism
The precept of reverent awe for the Eternal Lord
The precept of prayer to the Almighty
The mitzvah of associating with Torah scholars and adhering to them
That whoever needs to take an oath should swear by the Name of the Eternal Lord

In the liturgy
In the Blessing after Meals (Birkat Hamazon), Jews sometimes quote Deuteronomy 8:10, the Scriptural basis for the Blessing after Meals, immediately before the invitation (zimun), and quote it again at the close of the second blessing (for the Land of Israel).