[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Brian Schatz

sitions on issues such as healthcare, climate, college affordability and Social Security.

2022 

Schatz announced he intended to run for reelection for a second full term. He was challenged by Republican state representative Bob McDermott. Schatz won overwhelmingly, earning 69.4% of the total vote.

Tenure
During his time in the Senate, Schatz has developed a reputation as a liberal Democrat. He tends to vote with his party on both policy and procedural issues most of the time. GovTrack ranks Schatz as a more moderate member of his caucus. Schatz has been a part of numerous pieces of bipartisan legislation. He has co-sponsored 48 bills that have become law, including the bipartisan Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2021 and the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act. He has been the primary sponsor for seven bills, including the Native American Veterans' Memorial Amendments Act of 2013 and the NIST Small Business Cybersecurity Act. His primary areas of focus include healthcare, education, government operations, and national security. Schatz was instrumental in increasing the minimum smoking age to 21 and securing paid family leave for federal workers. He has also led efforts to expand telehealth services.

Schatz has also brought a large amount of federal funding to Hawaii. He secured reservation funding and transportation funding.

Schatz was participating in the certification of the 2021 United States Electoral College vote count when Trump supporters stormed the United States Capitol. He called the storming "despicable." Schatz called for Trump's removal from office through both the invocation of the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and the impeachment process. He called Trump a "danger to democracy itself". Schatz twice voted to impeach Trump.

Leadership positions
 Chief Deputy Whip
 Co-chair, Senate Climate Change Task Force
 Chair, Senate Democratic Special Committee on the Climate Crisis
 Member, Board of Trustees for the Harry S. Truman Scholarship foundation

Committee assignments
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee on Defense
Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (Chair)
Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation
Committee on Foreign Relations
Committee on Indian Affairs (Chair)
Select Committee on Ethics

Caucus memberships
 Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus
 Congressional NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus
Expand Social Security Caucus

Political positions
According to New York magazine, Schatz is a progressive but not a "Sanders-style bomb-thrower." He was characterized as a low-profile yet highly influential senator in pushing fellow Democrats to adopt progressive policy positions. The American Conservative Union gave him a 3% lifetime conservative rating in 2013.

Abortion 
Schatz is pro-choice. He supports access to legal abortion without restrictions. NARAL Pro-Choice America gave him a 100% rating.

Budget and economy 
Schatz supports income tax increases to balance the budget and federal spending to support economic growth.

LGBTQIA+ rights
Schatz supports same-sex marriage. He sponsored legislation in 2015 to allow married gay couples to have equal access to the veterans benefits and Social Security they have earned. Schatz supports LGBTQIA+ rights and same-sex marriage. He received a 100% rating from the Human Rights Campaign. Schatz supports transgender rights.

Drugs 
Schatz stopped short of calling for the legalization of marijuana in Hawaii in 2014, and has called for the criminalization of date-rape drugs. In 2016, he advocated for immunity for banks offering services to marijuana businesses.

Economy
To encourage tourism in West Hawaii, Schatz proposed that customs begin in Japan so that planes can arrive in West Hawaii as domestic flights.

Environment
In March 2014, Schatz was a lead organizer of an overnight talkathon devoted to discussing climate change. The gathering of over two dozen Senate Democrats took place on the Senate floor. The League of Conservation Voters supported the talkathon and ran campaign ads on Schatz's behalf. He has received a perfect score from the League of Conservation Voters.

In 2019, Schatz voiced his support for both a Green New Deal and a carbon tax as means to reduce emissions, saying that the two proposals are "perfectly compatible" with each other.