[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Internment camps in France

regime; citizens of countries who were in the orbit of the Reich, like Austria, Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, Slovak Republic, Fascist Italy, or Poland; French activists of the left (trade unionists, socialists, anarchists, and especially, communists), following the proscription of the Parti Communiste Français (PCF) by Daladier after the German–Soviet Non-aggression Pact; the first of these arrived 21 June 1940, and the majority were relocated in other camps before the end of the year. In Gurs were also interned during this period: anti-militarists, representatives of the French extreme right who sympathized with the Nazi regime, ordinary prisoners evacuated from prisons in the north of the country ahead of the German advance, common criminals awaiting trial. Then, under Vichy, Camp Gurs was used to detain foreign Jews, German Jews deported by the SS from southern Germany, persons who had illegally crossed the border of the zone occupied by the Germans, Spaniards fleeing Francoist Spain, Spaniards coming from other camps that had been condemned for being uninhabitable or due to their scarce contingent, stateless persons, people involved in prostitution, homosexuals, Romani people and indigents.
 Jargeau, near Orléans, used for the internment of Romani people
 Lalande in the Yonne,
 Linas-Montlhéry in the Seine-et-Oise for Romani people
 Marolles in the Loir-et-Cher
 Masseube in the Gers
 Les Mazures in the Ardennes department, where a Judenlager was opened from July 1942 to January 1944
 The Merignac internment camp in the Gironde. This is where Maurice Papon had Jews of the Bordeaux region interned before going to Drancy. Among others, Robert Aron was detained there.
 Meslay-du-Maine, in Mayenne department (1939–1940) (Leon Askin held here 1939)
 Camp des Milles near Aix-en-Provence in the Bouches-du-Rhône, which was the largest internment camp in the southeast of France. 2,500 Jews were deported from there following the August 1942 raids. Novelist Lion Feuchtwanger, Surrealist artists Hans Bellmer and Max Ernst were among the most famous inmates detained in this concentration camp.
 Montceau-les-Mines
 Natzweiler-Struthof a German-run concentration camp located in the Vosges Mountains close to the Alsatian village of Natzwiller (German Natzweiler)
 Nexon in the Haute-Vienne
 Noé - Mauzac in the Haute-Garonne
 Montreuil-Bellay in the Maine-et-Loire, created to intern Romani people
 Les Tourelles in Paris
 Pithiviers transit camp in Pithiviers. Jewish novelist Irène Némirovsky (1903–1942) was interned there.
 Poitiers in the Vienne department to intern Romani people
 Port-Louis, in Morbihan, in the fort
 Recebedou, in Haute-Garonne, in the suburbs of Toulouse
 Camp of Rieucros in Lozère (the mathematician Alexander Grothendieck was interned there)
 The Camp de Rivesaltes, in the Pyrénées Orientales, "The Drancy of the zone sud";
  Fort de Romainville ("Fort of Romainville"), was a Nazi prison, located in the outskirts of Paris. The Fort was invested in 1940 by the German military and transformed into a prison. From there, resistance members and hostages were directed to the Nazi concentration camps: 3,900 women and 3,100 men were interned before being deported to Auschwitz, Ravensbrück, Buchenwald and Dachau. 152 persons were executed by firing squad in the Fort itself. A few escaped, such as Pierre Georges, alias "Colonel Fabien." From her cell, Danielle Casanova, motivated and encouraged her comrades to confront their torturers. From October 1940, the Fort held only female prisoners (resistance members and hostages), who were jailed, executed or redirected to the Nazi concentration camps outside France. At the time of the Liberation in August 1944, many abandoned corpses were found in the Fort's yard.
 Saint-Cyprien in the Pyrénées-Orientales. 90,000 Spanish refugees were interned there in March 1939, and it was officially closed on 19 December 1940 for "sanitary reasons", its occupants transferred to the Camp of Gurs.
 Saint-Maurice-aux-Riches-Hommes in the Yonne, for Gypsies
 Saint-Paul d'Eyjeaux in the Haute-Vienne
 Saint-Sulpice-la-Pointe. Located near Toulouse, this transit camp was set up after the beginning of the Phony War. It was to house "individuals representing a danger to national security" - mostly militant communists. In June 1940, with the first German attacks on the Soviet Union, people with Russian citizenship were interned there. Later, foreign Jews who had been living in hiding in the south of France and were rounded up in the summer of 1942 were also sent to the camp. The inmates, especially the communists, organized many cultural activities, a "little university", in which each one contributed their knowledge for the collective good. From the summer of 1942 to the closing of the camp in August 1944, most of its inmates were deported to camps in Eastern Europe, Auschwitz and Buchenwald.
 Saliers concentration camp near Arles in the Bouches-du-Rhône, interned Romani people
 Sch