[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arthur Allen Leff

nship and illegal fraud. Not all selling is swindling, but all swindling is selling, Leff explains. He shows how both sellers and swindlers have to overcome similar forms of buyer resistance. Leff explains these dynamics in the language of Erving Goffman and through some use of behavioral economics.

In the case of swindling, con artists weave a dramaturgy where they hold a monopoly over some valuable asset, and the mark is set up as monopsonist, an exclusive buyer with access to a special deal. The scheme is premised on mutual need, and policing of these schemes is difficult because for part of the transaction, the mark is a willing participant. Here, Leff described scams such as the “Spanish Prisoner,” where a mark is promised great riches if he will only bribe some minor official to free the holder of the treasure (the modern version of this includes the “419” scheme). Leff then showed how the elements of swindling are present in some political and religious movements (although these may not be scams). The “ancient estate” scam, where marks are convinced that a fantastic old property was improperly distributed, making many modern-day people claimants to it, is similar to political movements to repatriate lands. “Godcons” are con games where the “conman…induces one or more marks to trade money…of this world value in exchange for the promised delivery of quantities of exceedingly valuable divinely manufactured goods.” Pyramid schemes operate by distracting marks from the opportunity costs of their labor, and by getting them emotionally attached to a swindle instead of more viable employment.

Leff then switched from “bunco” to legal selling. In a perfect market, bargains should not exist. Thus, sellers must create a plausible dramaturgy to explain why a buyer gets a bargain. This could be a clearance sale, with praises the buyer as parsimonious while implying that less careful consumers are getting the anti-bargain. Leff then turned to mass advertising, which relies upon several predicable cons: the “sufficiency switch” and the “Calvinist causation.” The former refers to the many products that suggest some cause and effect between the purchase of a product and some goal—clear up one’s complexion with a skin cream and get the girl. The latter is Leff’s term for positional objects: the Cadillac or the Mercedes. These things operate from an opposite logic. They do not make one successful, they license a script (and a prop) to the mark: “Buy this symbol with which you can advertise, powerfully and convincingly, that you are what you, and those about whose opinions you care, devoutly wish to be."

Leff was an agnostic but his writings have been influential on Christian discussions of morality in the modern era. Phillip E. Johnson has suggested that Leff's work is really a critique of the God is dead argument. Johnson argues that the presence of evil in the world is evidence that there is an absolute morality which requires an absolute authority. Other Christian scholars have also applied Leff's critique to secular arguments for a normative morality.

Responses to Leff

Posner has responded to Leff by stating that the purpose of any methodology or model is to simplify.  Otherwise it would be impossible to achieve any kind of understanding of the real world.

In Grounding Normative Assertions: Arthur Leff’s Still Irrefutable, but Incomplete, Sez Who Critique, 20 J. L. & Religion 31 (2004-2005), Washington and Lee University Law Professor Sam Calhoun agrees with Leff that attempts to ground secular, universal norms are doomed to fail.  Calhoun argues, though, that Leff’s critique of moral norms is incomplete because Leff ignores a God-based morality.  If God is introduced, normative assumptions can be securely grounded, although Calhoun acknowledges that looking to God for moral truth has many challenges.

Major articles
 Unconscionability and the Code-The Emperor's New Clause, 115 U. Pa. L. Rev. 485 (1967)
 Economic Analysis of Law: Some Realism About Nominalism, 60 Va. L. Rev. 451 (1974). 
 Law and Technology: On Shoring up a Void, 8 Ottawa L. Rev. 536 (1976). http://digitalcommons.law.yale.edu/fss_papers/2824/
 Book Review: Knowledge and Politics, 29 Stan. L. Rev. 879-889 1976-1977. http://digitalcommons.law.yale.edu/fss_papers/2814/
 Unspeakable Ethics, Unnatural Law, 1979 Duke L.J. 1229 (1979). http://digitalcommons.law.yale.edu/fss_papers/2826/

Books
 Swindling and Selling: The Story of Legal and Illegal Congames (Free Press 1976)

Recent theological works referencing Leff
 The Gospel According to Relativity 
 Groothuis, Douglas (2003). Truth Decay: Defending Christianity Against the Challenges of Postmodernism. pp. 208–210.  England & US: InterVarsity Press. 
 The Gagging of God 
 Nihilism and the End of Law Nihilism and the End of Law
 The Reason for God: Belief in an Age of Skepticism (Timothy Keller: https://www.amazon.com/Reason-God-Belief-Age-Skepticism/dp/1594483493)

References