[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William A. Hammond

anton's and his personal physician, became acting Surgeon General.

Hammond demanded to be either reinstated or court-martialed. A court-martial found him guilty of "irregularities" in the purchase of medical furniture (Stanton "used false data"). Hammond was dismissed on 18 August 1864.

Neurology 

With the help of friends Hammond established himself in New York City. He became professor of nervous and mental diseases at Bellevue Hospital in 1867 and at the New York University in 1874. He served on the faculty of the University of Vermont at Burlington and was co-founder and faculty member of the Post Graduate Medical School of New York. In the 1870s, he limited his practice to possible cases of nervous or mental diseases, the first American physician to do so. He conducted early experiments on the use of lithium for the treatment of mania.

In 1871 he published his best-known work, Treatise on diseases of the nervous system. In early 1872 he traveled to California to visit his ailing friend Letterman. In 1874 he founded, with Silas Weir Mitchell and many others, the American Neurological Association. In 1878 "he was restored to the army [...] with the grade of brigadier general, without pay or allowances".

Hammond was the author of many books and articles, some of them published in a journal he had founded. He was energetic, sceptical, moderate, a believer in freedom, and a reformer. He enjoyed writing in his spare time, becoming a science journalist and a naturalist. He also wrote a short biography of Polydore Vergil.

In 1882 he wrote an account of transgender cultural practices among the Pueblo peoples, becoming an early American writer to broach the subject.

In 1888 he returned to Washington, where he founded a hospital for patients with nervous and mental diseases. 

He died in Washington on 5 January 1900 of heart failure and was buried with military honors at the Arlington National Cemetery.

Hammond was married twice. On 3 July 1849, the day following his first commission as an assistant surgeon, he married Helen Nisbet. They had five children, two of whom died in infancy. His second spouse was Esther Dyer (d. 1925), who is buried by his side. His son Graeme Hammond also was a neurologist, as well as an Olympic fencer. Hammond co-authored a novel with his daughter, the novelist Clara Lanza.

Skepticism

Hammond was a scientific skeptic. He was a critic of spiritualism and attributed mediumship to suggestion and sleight of hand tricks. He explained the behavior of mediums as symptoms of hypnosis, hysteria, catalepsy and ecstasy. His book The Physics and Physiology of Spiritualism (1871) is an early text on anomalistic psychology and was revised into a larger edition Spiritualism and Allied Causes and Conditions of Nervous Derangement (1876). Hammond also argued that Spiritualism was itself a form of mental illness. His book, Fasting Girls: Their Physiology and Pathology (1879) is still referenced today as a historical example of a skeptical examination of the paranormal claims of fasting girls. In some cases, the fasting girls exhibited the appearance of stigmata. Hammond ascribed the phenomenon to fraud and hysteria on the part of the girl.

Selected works