[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lone Wolf the Younger

ottery.
On December 4, 1901, Chief Justice Alvey of the D.C. Court of Appeals affirmed the decision of the lower court.  Justice Alvey stated, in regards to the conflict between the 1867 Medicine Lodge Treaty and an act of Congress, that the Treaty has to yield to the act of Congress.

Supreme Court

William Springer was now aided by attorney Hampton Carson, whom was paid by the Indian Rights Association to assist Springer with the case in the Supreme Court.  Springer and Hampton argued several points in the case.  Up until this point, the United States had not taken Indian property without consent, the United States had always treated the right of occupancy the Indians possessed as sacred, the Canons of Construction must be followed in Indian law and the Court cannot interpret treaties in a way that prejudices the Indians, and due to treaties being the laws of the land and since the Medicine Lodge Treaty had created vested property rights in the KCA reservation lands, those lands were protected by the Constitution.
Assistant Attorney General Willis Van Devanter argued on behalf of the United States and characterized the tribes as wards of the State.  Justice Edward Douglass White, who wrote for the court on January 5, 1903, agreed.  Due to the fact that Indians were seen as dependent nations and wards of the United States Congress had the right to abrogate a treaty with Indians if the provisions of the treaty went against the best interests of the United States.  Justice White also relied on the last-in-time rule where a congressional statute that is the latest enactment may supersede a prior treaty and was the reason the 1867 Medicine Lodge Treaty could be abrogated. Justice White noted that the Court held that the appeal could not be decided in the courts of the United States but had to be made to Congress.

Allotment of the reservation
By July 24, 1901 there were over 150,000 people who had registered for the lottery of the 11,638 homestead allotments.  By 1906, 480,000 acres of land on the reservation that had been set aside for the common use of the KCA for grazing was opened up for white settlement.  The preallotment total of 2.9 million acres was reduced to approximately 3000 acres by the end of the allotment era.

After the case
Following the loss in court, Lone Wolf returned to the KCA reservation where he was still looked to for leadership by his fellow tribe members and he lived with his family on his allotment until his death in 1923.

Settlement
In the 1920s, after the loss of Lone Wolf's case in the Supreme Court, the Kiowa Indians went to Congress seeking legislation to help them.  In 1955, the Indian Claims Commission awarded the Kiowa, Comanche and Apache tribes over 2 million dollars in additional compensation for the land allotted in the Act of 1900.

References

External links

Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U.S. 553, 23 S.Ct. 216, 47 L.Ed. 299 (1903) at Findlaw.com; ruled

Native American leaders
Kiowa people
1840s births
1923 deaths