[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ahmet Tevfik Pasha

en served as the president of the Ottoman delegation to the Paris Peace Conference ending World War I. Ahmet Tevfik Pasha's delegation refused the heavy terms of the proposed treaty, but another delegation sent by the Grand Vizier Damat Ferid Pasha accepted the terms and signed the Treaty of Sèvres.

Third term (1920–1922)
On 21 October 1920, he was once more appointed grand vizier, replacing Damat Ferit Pasha. Meanwhile, the Turkish National Movement had established another government in Ankara, proclaiming itself to be the sole government of the nation and rejecting the sultanate. Ahmet Tevfik Pasha offered the nationalist Ankara government to join his monarchical Istanbul government to form one body at the Conference of London in 1921. However, the leader in Ankara, Mustafa Kemal, refused the offer, and the two governments sent separate delegations to the conference, with Ahmet Tevfik Pasha himself leading the Istanbul delegation and Bekir Sami Kunduh leading the Ankara delegation. However, once he arrived in London, Ahmet Tevfik Pasha, in a surprising move, proclaimed that the Ankara government indeed was the sole rightful government of Turkey and allowed Bekir Sami to be the only representative at the conference.

After the abolition of the Ottoman Sultanate on 1 November 1922, Ahmet Tevfik Pasha met with his government. With the Sultan Mehmed VI gone and unable to find a reason to hold their offices any longer, the government began to resign one by one, and Ahmet Tevfik Pasha resigned three days after the abolition on 4 November 1922.

Later life and death

After the 1934 Surname Law, he adopted the last name "Okday". He died on 8 October 1936 in Istanbul and is interred at the Edirnekapı Martyr's Cemetery.

His biography, written by his grandson Şefik Okday, was published in 1986 and is titled My Grandfather, the Last Grand Vizier, Ahmet Tevfik Pasha (Turkish: Büyükbabam Son Sadrazam Ahmet Tevfik Paşa).

See also
 List of Ottoman grand viziers
 Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Ottoman Empire)

References

External links

 

Honorary Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of India
Grand Crosses of the Order of Vasa
1845 births
1936 deaths
Burials at Edirnekapı Martyr's Cemetery
20th-century Grand Viziers of the Ottoman Empire
Ambassadors of the Ottoman Empire to Germany
Ambassadors of the Ottoman Empire to Greece
Ambassadors of the Ottoman Empire to the United Kingdom
Ambassadors of the Ottoman Empire to the Russian Empire
Ambassadors of the Ottoman Empire to Austria-Hungary
Ambassadors of the Ottoman Empire
Turkish people of Crimean Tatar descent
Politicians from Istanbul
Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Ottoman Empire
Turkish novelists
Members of the Senate of the Ottoman Empire
Diplomats from Istanbul