[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 162]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

CHAPTER XXXVIII. OF THE SIGNIFICATION IN SCRIPTURE OF ETERNALL LIFE,
HELL, SALVATION, THE WORLD TO COME, AND REDEMPTION


The maintenance of Civill Society, depending on Justice; and Justice on
the power of Life and Death, and other lesse Rewards and Punishments,
residing in them that have the Soveraignty of the Common-wealth; It
is impossible a Common-wealth should stand, where any other than the
Soveraign, hath a power of giving greater rewards than Life; and of
inflicting greater punishments than Death. Now seeing Eternall Life is
a greater reward, than the Life Present; and Eternall Torment a greater
punishment than the Death of Nature; It is a thing worthy to be well
considered, of all men that desire (by obeying Authority) to avoid
the calamities of Confusion, and Civill war, what is meant in Holy
Scripture, by Life Eternall, and Torment Eternall; and for what
offences, against whom committed, men are to be Eternally Tormented; and
for what actions, they are to obtain Eternall Life.




Place Of Adams Eternity If He Had Not Sinned, The Terrestrial Paradise

And first we find, that Adam was created in such a condition of life,
as had he not broken the commandement of God, he had enjoyed it in the
Paradise of Eden Everlastingly. For there was the Tree of Life; whereof
he was so long allowed to eat, as he should forbear to eat of the tree
of Knowledge of Good an Evill; which was not allowed him. And therefore
as soon as he had eaten of it, God thrust him out of Paradise, "lest he
should put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and live
for ever." (Gen. 3. 22.) By which it seemeth to me, (with submission
neverthelesse both in this, and in all questions, whereof the
determination dependeth on the Scriptures, to the interpretation of the
Bible authorized by the Common-wealth, whose Subject I am,) that Adam if
he had not sinned, had had an Eternall Life on Earth: and that Mortality
entred upon himself, and his posterity, by his first Sin. Not that
actuall Death then entred; for Adam then could never have had children;
whereas he lived long after, and saw a numerous posterity ere he dyed.
But where it is said, "In the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt
surely die," it must needs bee meant of his Mortality, and certitude
of death. Seeing then Eternall life was lost by Adams forfeiture, in
committing sin, he that should cancell that forfeiture was to recover
thereby, that Life again. Now Jesus Christ hath satisfied for the sins
of all that beleeve in him; and therefore recovered to all beleevers,
that ETERNALL LIFE, which was lost by the sin of Adam. And in this sense
it is, that the comparison of St. Paul holdeth (Rom. 5.18, 19.) "As by
the offence of one, Judgment came upon all men to condemnation, even
so by the righteousnesse of one, the free gift came upon all men
to Justification of Life." Which is again (1 Cor. 15.21,22) more
perspicuously delivered in these words, "For since by man came death, by
man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even
so in Christ shall all be made alive."




Texts Concerning The Place Of Life Eternall For Beleevers

Concerning the place wherein men shall enjoy that Eternall Life, which
Christ hath obtained for them, the texts next before alledged seem to
make it on Earth. For if as in Adam, all die, that is, have forfeited
Paradise, and Eternall Life on Earth; even so in Christ all shall be
made alive; then all men shall be made to live on Earth; for else
the comparison were not proper. Hereunto seemeth to agree that of the
Psalmist, (Psal. 133.3.) "Upon Zion God commanded the blessing, even
Life for evermore;" for Zion, is in Jerusalem, upon Earth: as also that
of S. Joh. (Rev. 2.7.) "To him that overcommeth I will give to eat of
the tree of life, which is in the midst of the Paradise of God." This
was the tree of Adams Eternall life; but his life was to have been on
Earth. The same seemeth to be confirmed again by St. Joh. (Rev. 21.2.)
where he saith, "I John saw the Holy City, New Jerusalem, coming down
from God out of heaven, prepared as a Bride adorned for her husband:"
and again v. 10. to the same effect: As if he should say, the new
Jerusalem, the Paradise of God, at the coming again of Christ, should
come down to Gods people from Heaven, and not they goe up to it from
Earth. And this differs nothing from that, which the two men in white
clothing (that is, the two Angels) said to the Apostles, that were
looking upon Christ ascending (Acts 1.11.) "This same Jesus, who is
taken up from you into Heaven, shall so come, as you have seen him go up
into Heaven." Which soundeth as if they had said, he should come down
to govern them under his Father, Eternally here; and not take them up
to govern them in Heaven; and is conformable to the Restauration of the
Kingdom of God, instituted under Moses; which was a Political government
of the Jews on Ear