[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Caryn Franklin

mission organised by People Tree Founder Safia Minney MBE, Franklin is a supporter of sustainable fashion business and has made regular contributions to many slow fashion campaigns, collaborating with charities such as Oxfam and supporting initiatives including Extinction Rebellion Boycott Fashion.

In 2009 the launch of the All Walks Beyond the Catwalk led to many opportunities for further debate around the lack of diversity in fashion. Franklin became a member of government minister Lynne Featherstone's and Jo Swinson's Body Confidence steering committee, meeting regularly with members of parliament, educationalists and mental health experts. She also advised the Women's Equality Party research specifically on fashion protocol pertaining to challenge for the achievable body ideal and has contributed to a new policy debate within the Advertising Standards Authority centre in representation of women in objectifying imagery and messaging. This would be an important learning experience which propelled her to examine the obstacles to inclusivity and diversity through the newly devised MSc applied psychology course at London College of Fashion, she would later enrol upon

Work in recent years drawing upon applied psychology, specialising in selfhood, inclusivity and gender bias, has seen Caryn deliver corporate leadership talks and workshops with the aim of tackling lack of minoritised identities within teams and leadership. She has presented international workshops in Athens, New York, Toronto, Montreal and Prague.

Caryn's fifth Book (audio format) SKEWED was completed in 2022. Co written with Professor Keon West and narrated by both authors, it blends fascinating scientific research and analysis with sharp insight and wit to challenges cultural messaging around identity and objectification, including race, gender, gender non-conformity, sexual orientation, age, and attractiveness.

All Walks Beyond the Catwalk
In 2009, Franklin co-founded the award-winning All Walks Beyond the Catwalk with Debra Bourne and Erin O'Connor, an initiative that promoted diverse body and beauty ideals. All Walks was unwaged, relying upon volunteers and collaborated with emerging designers, established big names in fashion and colleges and universities nationwide to promote the concept of emotionally considerate design and diversity for the industry and the educational curriculum. Also created was All Walks Diversity Network in association with Edinburgh College of Art, launched at Graduate Fashion Week in June 2011, attended by Lynne Featherstone. The national competition: Diversity NOW in association with i-D magazine and hosted at Graduate Fashion Week ran for four years. Franklin stepped away in 2015.

A member of FACE: Fashion Academics Creating Equality: www.weareface.uk Franklin also pursues the accelerated recruitment and progression of Black and Brown academics as well as the centring of Black style and culture, to educational course and module evaluation metrics. She has spoken of whiteness and entitlement in education through her position at FACE and through organisations such as CHEAD: Council for Higher Education in Art and Design.

Personal life

She has two daughters, Mateda Phoenix and Roseby Ottoline, and is married to BAFTA-winner and RTS award-winning filmmaker Ian Denyer. Mateda's father was the award-winning script writer of Young Soul Rebels Mandu Saldaan, who died in 2014 as a result of Multiple Sclerosis complications.

In 2013, Franklin was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2013 New Year Honours for services to diversity and positive body image in the fashion industry.

References

External links
 
 AllWalks
 i-D Magazine Coverage
 Vogue Coverage
Huffington Post Coverage
Diversity Network Website

1959 births
British fashion journalists
British television presenters
British women journalists
British women television presenters
Living people
Members of the Order of the British Empire