[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Fallout (video game)

d on GURPS. Fantasy and time-traveling settings were considered before the development team decided on a post-apocalyptic setting. Taylor outlined the design goals in a vision statement, which Cain called an inspiration for the development team and "a major reason why the game came together at all."

Fallout was a spiritual successor to Interplay's role-playing video game Wasteland (1988), published by Electronic Arts. Almost everyone who worked on Fallout had played it. The team was unable to make Fallout a direct sequel to Wasteland because Electronic Arts refused to license it. The team drew inspiration for Fallout retro-futuristic art style from 1950s literature and media related to the Atomic Age. Especial influence came from the 1956 science fiction novel Forbidden Planet and optimistic Cold War posters, which Boyarsky reportedly loved.

The vaults were influenced by the underground base in the science fiction movie A Boy and His Dog (1975). Cain said that the team "all loved X-COM" and that Fallout featured combat similar to X-COM prior to the GURPS license. Cain admired Star Control II (1992) and said it influenced Fallout open-ended design. Fallout features many popular culture references. The team was only allowed to include references if understanding the source material was not required for the reference to make sense. For example, the Slayer perk's name references the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer while generically matching its effect (turning all attacks to critical hits).

Characters and writing
The sprites in Fallout were highly detailed and required a significant amount of memory on contemporary computers. 21 NPCs were voiced by various actors, and Ron Perlman voiced the narrator. Some NPCs feature 3D models during conversation called "talking heads", most of which were created by Scott Redenhizer. Each took eight weeks to create, and voice recording took a few months. The talking heads began as sculpted heads of clay, which the team studied to determine which parts should be most animated. The heads were digitized using a Faro Space Arm and VertiSketch, with LightWave 3D used for geometric corrections and the texture maps created in Adobe Photoshop. Much of the spoken dialogue was written by designer Mark O'Green, whose method of writing Taylor considered efficient and impressive. The companions, conceived late in development, were not easy to implement. As a result, they were riddled with glitches, including a tendency to shoot the Vault Dweller when they are obscuring an enemy. Dogmeat was the first companion added. Tycho was a reference to the desert rangers from Wasteland.

Cain wrote the prologue, which included the series catchphrase "War. War never changes". Vault Boy and his cheerful nature parodied how 1950s media downplayed the perils of nuclear war. Cain, who dislikes it when the player character knows more than the player, devised Fallout narrative so that the Vault Dweller would know just as much as the player. The development team conceived of a faction of mutants who grew their ranks by dipping people into virus vats. During the discussion, someone wondered what would happen if more than one person was dropped into the vat. The team conceptualized the leader of the faction as a synthesis of a man, a woman, and a computer terminal mutated together. Cain enjoyed modelling, animating, and writing the Master's dialog, particularly because the Master switched between three voices: male, female, and electronic. The development team became confident in their vision after the audio director reacted to the voice-switching concept, and every department believed the Master would be a great antagonist. The Master was voiced by Jim Cummings and Kath Soucie.  

The quests in Fallout were given moral ambiguity, with no clear right or wrong solutions. This was done so the player could take whatever choice suited them best. An example is the final encounter with the Master, whose motives for establishing unity among the wasteland population and making it immune to radiation by turning them into mutants could be perceived as persuasive by the player.  Assistant designer Scott Bennie described the backstory of the Master, who views himself as a well-intentioned hero, as an example of their intention of "hit[ting] the player with an emotional sledgehammer as often as possible" with their story design.