[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Family Murders

ains were found later in October 1982 by a local farmer at Middle Beach, 50km north of Adelaide. Stogneff's body had been cut into three pieces in a similar fashion to Muir. Little more could be determined as the remains had been accidentally burnt by the farmer while clearing his property of scrub.

Mark Andrew Langley, aged 18, murdered in February 1982. His mutilated body was found in scrub in the Adelaide foothills nine days after his disappearance. Among the mutilations was a wound that appeared to have been cut with a surgical instrument that went from his navel to the pubic region and part of his small bowel was missing. The hair around the area had been shaved as it would have been in an operation in a hospital. The post-mortem revealed that Langley had died from a massive loss of blood from gross injuries to his anus, similar to Barnes. The sedative-hypnotic drug Mandrax, popular in the 1970s disco scene, was found in Langley's blood.

Richard Dallas Kelvin, (born 4 December 1967) aged 15, murdered in July 1983. The son of popular local Nine Network news presenter Rob Kelvin, he was abducted a short distance from his North Adelaide home on 5 June. His body was found on 24 July by a geologist who was searching for moss-covered rocks near a dirt airstrip at Kersbrook. Kelvin was held captive for approximately five weeks and a post-mortem examination revealed that he had died of massive blood loss from an anal injury, likely caused by the insertion of a large blunt object. Analysis of Kelvin's bloodstream revealed traces of four hypnotic drugs, including Mandrax and Noctec. Trace evidence, including hair and fibres from von Einem's home, was found on Kelvin's body and clothing.

See also

 Crime in Australia
 List of serial killers by number of victims
 Unsolved murders

References

Further reading

External links
 Herald Sun interview with Bevan Spencer von Einem by Debi Marshall, 2019
Frozen Lies Podcast by Debi Marshall, 2019

1979 crimes in Australia
1979 murders in Australia
1970s in Adelaide
1981 murders in Australia
1982 murders in Australia
1983 crimes in Australia
1983 murders in Australia
1980s in Adelaide
Incidents of violence against boys
Male murder victims
Murder in Adelaide
Serial murders in Australia
Unidentified serial killers