[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Spycraft: The Great Game

ins the manager and the candidate congratulates Thorn on a job well done. Yuri, however, seems intent on throwing the candidate in jail. Because the candidate is ahead in the polls and now supports the END treaty, it is Thorn's job to protect him. There are two final options presented to the player:

 Shoot Yuri. Thorn gets a medal back at home and a vacation in Fiji. The Russian elections go smoothly and the new candidate seems intent on forging a good relationship with the U.S.
 Do not shoot Yuri. Although this is easier on the player's conscience, Thorn is fired when he returns home for refusing to follow orders. Meanwhile, in Russia, chaos ensues and the old President declares martial law and seals himself off from the U.S.

If Thorn fails to recover the nuclear pit, the final scene is marred by a catastrophic nuclear explosion.

Gameplay

The game's narrative follows a linear path, pausing between interstitial movie-like videos featuring various protagonists, at which point the player is required to solve puzzles and challenges. The linear path splits in the game's final scenes, providing two alternative endings.

Development
Spycraft was developed on a budget in excess of $3 million. It was promoted in part by an official website with information and daily updates about the game's development and release schedule, which was highly unusual at the time. Parts of the game were coded in HTML to enable it to update elements like news reports and character dossiers in real time via the internet. The game's script was written by James Adams, a noted author of non-fiction books on espionage. While Spycraft was still in development it was announced that there would be a home conversion for the Sega Saturn to be released in August 1996 but it was never released. In mid-1996, Universal Pictures acquired the license to make a film based on Spycraft. A DVD-ROM version was also announced at COMDEX 1996, becoming one of the first games to make use of the format. GOG.com released an emulated version for modern Windows systems in 2012.

Reception

The game shipped more than 140,000 units worldwide by June 1996.

A Next Generation critic commented of the game, "It's linear. It's packed with FMV. And yet, amazingly, not only does it not suck, it's actually an extremely good game." He praised the well-crafted plot, excellent acting, challenging yet logical puzzles, and the realism invoked by the downloading of current news from the game's website. He found the linearity to be hardly noticeable while playing, and said the game overall is a rare instance of an interactive movie which is both challenging and genuinely enjoyable. He scored it four out of five stars.

The editors of Macworld gave Spycraft their 1996 "Best Multimedia Game" award. Steven Levy of the magazine praised the game's "intricacy and playability", and argued that it is "better than a le Carre novel [at] conveying the dirty tricks and covert actions necessary to be a spook". GameSpot's editors named it the "Best Interactive Movie" and "Best Game That No One Played" of 1996, and called it "an experience that is both intelligent and thrilling."

Spycraft was a finalist for the Computer Game Developers Conference's 1996 "Best Script, Story or Interactive Writing" Spotlight Award, but lost the prize to You Don't Know Jack XL. It was also nominated for Computer Gaming Worlds "Adventure Game of the Year" and Computer Game Entertainments "Best Adventure Game" awards, both of which ultimately went to The Pandora Directive. However, Spycraft won Computer Gaming Worlds "Readers' Choice" award in this category.

In 2000, a Computer Games Strategy Plus retrospective summarized Spycraft as an "underrated spy-thriller [that] was one of the best real-world adventures." In 2011, Adventure Gamers named it the 90th-best adventure game ever released.

References

External links

1996 video games
Activision games
Adventure games
Cancelled Sega Saturn games
Classic Mac OS games
DOS games
DOS games ported to Windows
Fiction about assassinations
Full motion video based games
Games commercially released with DOSBox
Interactive movie video games
Spy video games
Video games set in Moscow
Video games set in Ukraine
Video games set in Virginia
Windows games
Video games developed in the United States
Single-player video games