[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Society of Vijayanagara empire

he Santharas of South Canara administered their own territories as feudatories.
At the village level, the caretaker was a Gowda or a Karanika or Karnam along with a Kavalu (watchman). Important towns were overseen by a Adhikari (mayor). Local village Panchayat were encouraged.

Agriculture and Trade

The Tungabhadra river was the lifeline of the capital. Many elaborate and clever canals and Anecut stored and channelled water to the capital. These canals also lead to the cultivable areas in the fortified city and outside. The features were so advanced that many of the ideas were maintained by the Tungabhadra river authority during their projects in the 1950s. The core area urban communities depended on private tanks, communal tanks and bore wells for water. The royal enclosures had the most sophisticated water distribution and recirculation systems. The main water supply to the royal enclosure came from Kamlapuram. Water pipes sealed in brick and lime plaster were used. Water conservation and recirculation had gained importance in these dry areas. Large tanks providing water for irrigation were called Anecut or Bund. There were several irrigated areas within the fortified city making the fortress very self-sufficient and capable of withstanding long sieges. In the empire, the majority of the people were involved in agriculture growing rice, wheat, ragi, cotton, sugarcane and pulses which were popular. There were plantations growing coconut, Areca and Betel. Portuguese influence brought the growth of onion, tobacco and ground nut into practice.
Many large tanks called Bukkasamudram, Vyasasamudram, Krishnarayasagara, Sadashivasagara, Maiviru Magada, Kamalapurasagara, Rayavakaluve, Basavanakaluve were constructed.
many people adopted many religions. there are variety of religious structures i.e. stupas monasteries and temples.
Industries that prospered were cotton textiles, weaving, carpentry, coir work, sculpting, stone quarrying etc. The prolific temple construction activities undertaken provided employment for thousands. Major exports were jaggery, limestone, textiles, salt, sugar, spices from Malnad, iron ore from Kudremukh, gold from Kolar, Hatti and Raichur, diamonds from Telangana area and rice. Major imports were horses from Persia, artillery and cannons, copper, coral, mercury and salt peter from Europe. While ports were humming on both the western and eastern shores, the most important ports were Mangalore, Barkur, Bhatkal, Honavar from where the empire traded with the Europeans and Persians.

References
 Dr. Suryanath U. Kamath, Concise history of Karnataka, MCC, Bangalore, 2001 (Reprinted 2002)
 Prof K.A. Nilakanta Sastry, History of South India, from Prehistoric Times to the Fall of Vijayanagar, 1955, OUP, New Delhi (Reprinted 2002)
 Hampi, A Travel Guide, Department of Tourism, India, Good Earth publication, New Delhi 2003
 New Light on Hampi, Recent research in Vijayanagara, edited by John M. Fritz and George Michell, MARG, 2001,

Notes

Related links
 Vijayanagar coins, Govt. museum, Chennai
 Coins of Vijayanagar Empire
 Vijayanagar Coinage
 History of Karnataka - Mr. Arthikaje,© 1998-00 OurKarnataka.Com,Inc
 Indian Inscriptions - Archaeological Survey Of India
 Vijayanagar Empire, Dr. Jyotsna Kamat
 Incredible India Hampi Guide
 Hampi - History and Tourism

Historical Societies of Karnataka
Vijayanagara Empire
Social history of Tamil Nadu
Social history of India