[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Craig Waters

several dozen scholarly articles on various subjects generally related to civil rights, AIDS and disability law, court emergency preparedness, and the use of technology to improve court and media relations. He is coauthor of a comprehensive article on Florida Supreme Court protocol and jurisdiction.

In the fall of 2008, Waters published a detailed article in the Journal of Appellate Practice & Process on the novel techniques he used to coordinate media relations at the Florida Supreme Court during the 2000 election cases.  The article is titled "Technological Transparency: Appellate Court & Media Relations after Bush v. Gore." It chronicled the emerging use both of public spokespersons and high-technology communication increasingly employed by courts worldwide in the 21st Century.

Work in court and media relations
In 1997, Waters led a project  that put all Florida Supreme Court arguments on live television, cable, satellite, and web broadcasts. He also was responsible for a pioneering effort started in 1994 to place all court documents in high-profile cases on the Web for instant public access. The media also credited Waters' work in 2000 with putting pressure on federal courts and the U.S. Supreme Court in particular to provide the public greater technological access to their own proceedings. 

Prior to attending law school, Waters was a reporter for the Gannett Company in the Tallahassee capital press corps, covering state government and the state Supreme Court he eventually would work for.  His experience as a statehouse journalist greatly influenced his approach to court and media relations.  Prior to Waters becoming the court public information officer in 1996, the Florida Supreme Court routinely avoided contact with media and was widely seen as secretive.

Waters changed that approach, first by putting large amounts of public information on the Florida Supreme Court website he maintained. In September 1997 in cooperation with Florida State University, Waters launched the first comprehensive program to broadcast all court arguments live on television, via satellite, on cable systems, and in webcasts.  That program, now called Gavel to Gavel. remains in place today and has been imitated by other courts.

Earlier legal work

Before becoming the Florida Supreme Court's first public information officer in 1996, Waters served for nine years as a staff attorney.  He worked in this capacity for nearly three years with Florida's first woman Justice, Rosemary Barkett from West Palm Beach.  The remaining time was spent advising Justice Gerald Kogan from Miami until, upon becoming Chief Justice in 1996, Kogan moved Waters permanently into court administration and his communications job.

Before law school, Waters worked for four years as a reporter with the Florida Gannett newspapers, from 1979 to 1983.  He won a number of awards.  These included recognition for work exposing racist campaign practices in the 1980 Pensacola city elections, for articles dealing with the then-novel concept of chronic spouse abuse syndrome as a defense to criminal charges, and for a series of articles at the height of the 1980s Reagan arms build-up about Florida's profound failures in emergency preparedness.

These last articles presaged Waters' later work in emergency preparedness with the Florida State Courts system following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the anthrax attacks of 2001, and the disastrous Florida hurricane seasons of 2004 and 2005. Waters founded the Florida Court Public Information Officers, Inc., a federally recognized nonprofit organized for educational purposes. FCPIO serves as a network of Florida's court PIOs with members in all 27 subdivisions of the state courts system, with regular meetings around Florida.

Speeches and educational lectures
Waters has given many speeches on issues he has explored in his professional life, including one on at the 10th international Court Technology Conference organized in 2007 by the National Center for State Courts.  He is coauthor of a professional paper describing how state and federal disability laws will require rethinking current practices in creating and maintaining court websites.

He previously spoke on the technology of disasters, dealing with court emergency preparedness following the September 11, 2001, terrorists attacks and the extensive hurricane seasons of 2004 and 2005.

In early 2014, he spoke at Stetson University College of Law in St. Petersburg, Florida, as part of its Institute for the Advancement of Legal Communications.  At that time, he met with faculty and students to survey the growing role of high-tech communications in informing the public about the role of courts and lawyers in our society.  He drew on his experiences with Bush v. Gore and examined how the communications challenges of that earlier constitutional crisis might have played out using the technology available in 2014.

Other activities