[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Topographic map (neuroanatomy)

s in a species.  The bulb therefore provides a spatial map that identifies which of the numerous receptors have been activated within the sensory epithelium so that the quality of an olfactory stimulus is encoded by specific combination of glomeruli activated by a given odorant (combinatorial code).

While refinement of the bulbar topographic code relies on activity, the development occurs partly without apparent contribution from activity-dependent processes. Mice lacking the olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channel fail to exhibit odor-evoked electrophysiological responses in the sensory epithelium, but the pattern of convergence of like axons in the bulb is unaltered in these mutant mice, arguing strongly that olfactory experience is not necessary for the establishment or refinement of the topographic map.

These findings, however, do not exclude a role for activity-dependent processes in the maintenance or potential plasticity of the map after it is established.  For example, neurons that do not express functional odorant receptors have been observed to have a significantly shorter half-life.  Activity-dependent processes may therefore be essential for the survival of the olfactory neurons postnatally, and in that manner, may alter the input to individual glomeruli, altering the sensitivity to individual odors.

Gustatory system
The gustatory system is the sensory system for taste.  Like olfaction, taste requires a process of chemoreception.  The receptors for taste are taste buds on the tongue.  The tongue contains taste receptors, as well as mechanoreceptors.  Afferents from taste receptors and mechanoreceptors of the tongue access different ascending systems in the brainstem.  However, it is uncertain how these two sources of information are processed in cortex.  The primary gustatory cortex (G) is located near the somatotopic region for the tongue (S1), in the insular cortex deep in the lateral fissure with the secondary taste areas in the opercula.

The peripheral taste system likely maintains a specific relationship between taste bud cells selectively responsive to one taste quality and the ganglion cells signaling that particular quality.  This explains the response specificity of some individual taste nerve, particularly because sweet, amino acid, and bitter receptors are expressed in distinct populations of taste cells.  Although anatomical evidence for such an exclusive relationship is lacking at the level of single receptor and ganglion cells, the relationship between single buds and their innervating ganglion cells is tractable neuroanatomically.  In taste, attempts to identify a spatial representation of taste receptors or taste qualities have revealed only an indistinct functional topography in the brain.  Nevertheless, taste ganglion cells must distribute peripheral fibers to particular receptor cell types and disseminate impulses centrally in a structurally organized manner.

Benefits
For neurons, it is metabolically costly to make long connections, and the trade-off of connection distance is time.  Thus, it is good design to group neurons together that are to be highly interconnected.  Multiple topographic maps is a feature that is advantageous because it allows maps of different sizes that would accommodate varying levels of acuity and details in signals.  A more detailed map has more neurons that would take up more area than a more global map, which would require fewer connections.

Techniques
A variety of techniques have been used to establish the topographic maps in the brain.  The existence of topographical maps was shown early by electrical stimulation of the cortex, tracing patterns of epileptic seizures, stimulation sequences, and impairments due to lesions.  Details in the maps came later through microelectrode stimulation and recording techniques became commonly used in demonstrating somatotopic maps and later in the auditory and visual systems, both cortically and in subcortical structures such as the colliculi and geniculate nuclei of the thalamus.  Single-cell recording, Transcranial magnetic stimulation(TMS), electrical stimulation of the cortex, and Functional magnetic resonance imaging(fMRI) are some of the techniques used to study maps in the brain.  Many of the existing topographic maps have been further studied or refined using fMRI.  For example, Hubel and Wiesel originally studied the retinotopic maps in the primary visual cortex using single-cell recording.  Recently, however, imaging of the retinotopic map in the cortex and in sub-cortical areas, such as the lateral geniculate nucleus, have been improved using the fMRI technique.

References

Further reading

 Kandel ER, Schwartz JH, Jessell TM 2000. Principles of Neural Science, 4th ed. McGraw-Hill, New York. 

Neuroanatomy