[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Clint Courtney

struction from Hornsby, who theorized that "the pitchers will miss it enough that they will hit the edge of the plate a lot of the time." When Hornsby was not managing him, Courtney apparently was more likely to set up the pitch location; biographer Costello called him "an expert framer of pitches."

Later minor league career
MLB expanded by creating two new franchises for the 1962 season, and Richards becoming the general manager of the Houston Colt .45's. He kept his promise by acquiring Courtney from the Orioles. Courtney competed for the major league club but was cut in April. Initially, he was assigned to the Triple-A Oklahoma City 89ers of the American Association. After just three games with them, he was sent to the Durham Bulls of the Class B Carolina League, where manager Lou Fitzgerald wanted a veteran around to help the team's catchers. In 81 games for the Bulls, Courtney batted .246 with 37 runs scored, 61 hits, 9 home runs, and 57 RBI.

As his career neared its end, Courtney developed a new goal: to become an MLB manager. He split 1963 between Durham and the Texas League's San Antonio Bullets, serving as a player and coach at both destinations. In 23 games for San Antonio, he batted .250 with 5 runs scored, 10 hits, 2 home runs, and 9 RBI. He played 38 games for Durham, batting .212 with 14 runs scored, 24 hits, 6 home runs, and 20 RBI. At San Antonio, he worked with Jerry Grote, a similar-type player who would go on to spend 16 seasons in the major leagues.

Courtney finished his playing career in 1964 as a player-coach with San Antonio, where he served as the backup catcher to Dave Adlesh. In 37 games, Courtney batted .324 with 1 run scored, 12 hits, 0 home runs, and 3 RBI. Over 30 years later, David King of The San Antonio Express-News called Courtney the "heart" of the Bullets, going on to discuss how his work ethic and simple approach to the game influenced the team.

Coaching career
In 1965, Courtney returned to the major leagues as the bullpen coach for Houston, their first season under the name Astros and their first year in the indoor Astrodome. After the season, Richards and the entire Astro coaching staff were fired. Hired by the Atlanta Braves in 1967, Richards reemployed Courtney as a travelling catching instructor for Atlanta's minor league teams.

After just over three years of instructing minor league catchers, Courtney got a chance to manage again in 1970, when he replaced Fitzgerald as manager of the struggling Shreveport Braves of the Texas League. The move was supposed to be temporary, enabling Courtney to be near his ill father and brother-in-law. His relatives' health improved, however, and Courtney held the position for the rest of the year as Shreveport posted a 58–76 record overall. In 1971, he managed the Greenwood Braves of the Class A Western Carolina League, helping the team post the best record in the league, at 85–38. "Clint ‘Scraps’ Courtney is a man who means what he says and doesn't beat around the bush getting the job done,” opined Jim Joyce of The Greenwood Index-Journal.

Courtney managed the Savannah Braves of the Class AA Southern League in 1972, guiding them to an 80–59 record. He began 1973 with them but was promoted in June to manage the Richmond Braves of the Class AAA International League, Atlanta's top minor league affiliate.  Richmond finished 1973 with a 53–93 record but went 75–65 in 1974. When Eddie Mathews was fired as Atlanta's manager in July 1974, Courtney was prominently mentioned as a possible successor to Eddie Mathews to manage the Braves. The job instead went to Clyde King, and Courtney continued to manage Richmond. Nevertheless, Courtney figured that his dreams of managing a major league team would soon be realized.

Death
On June 15, 1975, while on a road trip with Richmond to play the Rochester Red Wings, Courtney was playing ping pong and discussing baseball with some of his players when he suffered a heart attack. The attack proved fatal, and Courtney died at the age of 48. He was buried in Plot N of the Mount Zion Cemetery in Hall Summit, Louisiana. Bob Lemon replaced him as the manager of Richmond, which finished the 1975 season with a 62–75 record.

Personal life
Courtney married St. Louis's Dorothy Knelange in Ciudad Obregón on January 11, 1954. The couple had five children: Wendell, Cynthia, Kathleen, Nancy, and Stephen. During his career, Courtney owned a 200-acre ranch in Coushatta, Louisiana, renting up to 500 more acres at times as well. "I aim to own my own land ‘n’ all the cattle I can git," he told sportswriter Bob Broeg in 1953. He grew over 10,000 peppers, eggplants, and tomato vines in greenhouses, also taking care of Thoroughbred racehorses on his property. He had a country boy reputation; teammate Dick Hall quipped that riding in the same vehicle as him was "like being in a barn". Courtney was listed at  and . Despite his tough reputation during games, his temperament was more genial and affable off the field.