[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Akio Sato (wrestler)

Later on Sato would unsuccessfully challenge Greg Gagne for the AWA International Television Championship. Near the end of his time in the AWA he participated in a feud between Pat Tanaka and Paul Diamond following the breakup of Badd Company.

World Wrestling Federation (1990–1991, 1993, 1994–1995)

Sato's next move is the one that got him the most media attention as he signed with the World Wrestling Federation for the first time in his career. In early 1990 Sato along with former rival Pat Tanaka were introduced to the WWF as The Orient Express by manager Mr. Fuji. During this run, Sato introduced the Sitout Powerbomb to mainstream American wrestling for the first time. The Orient Express kicked off a prolonged feud with The Rockers that started at WrestleMania VI and continued off and on for well over a year. The Orient Express got involved in the Legion of Doom / Demolition feud because Mr. Fuji managed both teams. Demolition was being phased out and the Orient Express took on the Legion of Doom instead. The Legion of Doom / Orient Express feud was extremely onesided due to the Legion of Doom's massive size advantage.

After WrestleMania VI Tanaka and Sato only made two Pay Per View appearances while in the WWF. Firstly at SummerSlam 1990 where the team were defeated by ”Hacksaw” Jim Duggan and Nikolai Volkoff. Secondly as part of the Sgt. Slaughter led team “The Mercenaries” (that also included Boris Zhukov). Sato was pinned by Butch Miller 1:46 into the match and Tanaka was pinned by Tito Santana only moments later, 2:13 into the match.

When Akio Sato decided to focus on foreign markets for the WWF in the latter days of 1990, they decided to reunite the team known as Badd Company, only this time with Paul Diamond wearing a mask to hide the fact that he's not Asian and using the name of Kato. Sato wrestled his last WWF match in July 1991 to team with Tanaka and Kato as a one off for a 6-man tag-team match on the SummerSlam Spectacular TV special. He would also wrestle a match for WAR in 1992 and took a hiatus from wrestling for a couple of years.

In 1993, Sato made an appearance at SummerSlam as Yokozuna's flag bearer prior to his match against Lex Luger. Sato did return to the WWF in late 1994 as the white faced manager "Shinja" who advised Hakushi during his heel run with the company. His last TV appearance was on the July 24, 1995, edition of Raw, when he was piledriven by Bret Hart. When Hakushi turned face, Shinja was quietly written out of the storyline.

Wrestle Association R (1995–1996)
After WWF, Sato returned to Japan working mainly wrestling for Wrestle Association R. He retired in 1996

Personal life
In 1976, Sato married Betty Niccoli, whom he met in Bob Geigel's promotion in the United States. The couple had two daughters.  Sato now resides in Kansas City, Missouri.

Championships and accomplishments
All Japan Pro Wrestling
All Asia Tag Team Championship (2 times) – with Takashi Ishikawa
Cauliflower Alley Club
Men’s Wrestling Award (2009)
Central States Wrestling
NWA Central States Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
NWA Central States Television Championship (1 time)
NWA World Tag Team Championship (Central States version) (2 time) – with Bob Geigel (1 time), Ted Oates (1 time)
Continental Wrestling Association
CWA/AWA International Tag Team Championship (5 times) – with Tarzan Goto
Western States Sports
NWA Western States Tag Team Championship (4 times) – with Mr. Pogo (2), John Tolos (1), and Mr. Kiyomoto (1)
NWA Western States Heavyweight Championship (1 time)

References

External links 

1953 births
20th-century professional wrestlers
All Asia Tag Team Champions
Japanese male professional wrestlers
Living people
Professional wrestlers who use face paint
Professional wrestling executives
Professional wrestling managers and valets
Professional wrestling promoters
Professional wrestling trainers
Sportspeople from Hokkaido