[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Rafael Correa

niversidad Nacional de Rosario Honorary doctorate, March 2018.

Also, in April 2010 he received the Prize for Exceptional Academic Achievement 2009 of the University of Illinois. On 3 December 2010, the UBA Cultural Center of Buenos Aires gave him the Faces and Masks Democracy Prize.

Work published

Books 
 Ecuador: From Banana Republic to Non Republic, Random House, Quito, 2009.
 "The Vulnerability of the Ecuadorian Economy: Toward better Economic Politics for Employment Generation, Reduction of poverty and Inequality," Program of the United Nations for Development (UNDP), Quito, 2004.
 "The Challenge of Development: Are We Prepared for the Future?," Publications of the San Francisco de Quito University, Quito, 1996.

Academic articles 
 "The Washington Consensus in Latin America: to a Quantitative Evaluation", working paper, San Francisco de Quito University, Quito, April 2002.
 "Structural Reform and Growth in Latin America: a sensitivity analysis", CEPAL Magazine, number 76, April 2002, Santiago de Chile.
 "One Market, One Currency: the Economic Desirability of Monetary Union for the CAN", working paper, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Illinois, May 2001.
 "Destabilizing Speculation in the Exchange Market: the Ecuadorian Marries", working paper. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Illinois, January 2000.
 "Endogenous Institutional Change? To a Critical View of the Political Economy of the Reforms: the Ecuadorian Marries", working paper. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Illinois, August 1999.
 "The Ecuadorian ISI Revisited", working paper, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Illinois, May 1999.

References

Sources

External links 

Official
 el Blog económico del Presidente de la República, Rafael Correa Delgado Economics blog of the President of Ecuador
 option=com_content&view=article&id=44&Itemid=78 President Rafael Correa Official website of the Presidency of Ecuador
 

Other
Biography by CIDOB Foundation  (in Spanish)
 MSNBC, "Leftward Tilt: Political Shift in Latin America"
 Ecuador's Election: Revolution! Please Give Generously The Economist, 23 April 2009
 "The resignation of Rafael Correa, Ecuador's Economy Minister: an example of IFI's influence?"
 Rafael Correa on Global Capitalism, Why He Won't Renew the US Base in Manta, Chevron in the Amazon – video by Democracy Now!
 "Ecuadorian constitutional referendum, 2011" (in Spanish).
 "Ecuador's Economy Since 2007", May 2012, report from the Center for Economic and Policy Research
 "El Vice Presidente Lenin Moreno es nominado a Premio Nobel de la Paz".
 "Ecuador Chooses Stimulus over Austerity" . The Real News. 17 February 2013.
 "Ecuador begins to roar". The Guardian. 7 April 2013.

|-

|-

|-

|-

1963 births
Catholic socialists
Collars of the Order of the Liberator General San Martin
Ecuadorian Christian socialists
20th-century Ecuadorian economists
Ecuadorian Ministers of Finance
Ecuadorian Roman Catholics
Ecuadorian revolutionaries
Ecuadorian socialists
Ecuadorian male writers
Grand Crosses of the Order of the Sun of Peru
Leaders of political parties in Ecuador
Left-wing populists
Living people
PAIS Alliance politicians
Politicians from Guayaquil
Presidents of Ecuador
Presidents pro tempore of the Union of South American Nations
Presidents pro tempore of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States
Socialism of the 21st century
Universidad Católica de Santiago de Guayaquil alumni
Université catholique de Louvain alumni
Anti-imperialism in South America
Anti-Americanism
21st-century Ecuadorian politicians
University of Illinois College of Liberal Arts and Sciences alumni
People convicted in absentia