[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Ronald Chalmers

ittee refused to hear the case.

Chalmers won re-election and received the certificate of election to the Forty-seventh Congress in 1880, serving from March 4, 1881 – April 29, 1882. That time his seat was successfully contested by Republican candidate Lynch.

Lynch served the remainder of the term.

In the fall of 1882, Chalmers ran as an Independent Democrat as part of a fusion ticket supported by Republicans and the Greenback Party, to the Forty-eighth Congress. Democrat Van H. Manning claimed victory, and Chalmers contested the legality of the election. Chalmers finally was verified by Congress as the winner and allowed to take his seat on June 25, 1884.  He was unsuccessful in running for re-election in 1884.

Chalmers wrote to Republican President Chester A. Arthur in December 1882 about how to defeat the regular Democrats in Mississippi. Independents like him sometimes affiliated with Greenbackers, other men who had left the regular party, and even Republicans in a fusionist ticket. In this period, Senator William Mahone of Virginia had gathered various factions into what was called the Readjuster Party, which was prominent in Virginia politics. Chalmers proposed the same for Mississippi. Neither he nor Mahone were successful in breaking up Mississippi Democrats or the Solid South.

Later life
After failing to win election in 1884, Chalmers left politics, returning to full-time practice of law. He moved his practice to Memphis, Tennessee, where he died in April 1898.

See also
 List of Confederate States Army generals
 List of United States representatives from Mississippi

References

Citations

Sources

Further reading
 Eicher, John H., and Eicher, David J. Civil War High Commands. Stanford University Press, 2001, .

External links

 
 James Ronald Chalmers at The Political Graveyard

 

1831 births
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century American politicians
1898 deaths
Burials in Tennessee
Cavalry commanders
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Mississippi
Independent members of the United States House of Representatives
Mississippi Greenbacks
Mississippi Independents
Mississippi lawyers
People from Halifax County, Virginia
People of Mississippi in the American Civil War
Tennessee lawyers
University of South Carolina alumni