[Source: PubMed]

49. Nervenarzt. 2017 Jan;88(1):26-33. doi: 10.1007/s00115-016-0245-3.

[Dissemination of psychotherapy modules for traumatized refugees : Experience 
gained from trauma work in crisis and conflict regions].

[Article in German]

Elbert T(1)(2), Wilker S(3)(4), Schauer M(3)(5), Neuner F(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)vivo international NGO, Konstanz, Deutschland. Thomas.Elbert@uni-konstanz.de.
(2)Klinische Psychologie und Kompetenzzentrum Psychotraumatologie, Universität 
Konstanz, Universitätsstr. 10, 78457, Konstanz, Deutschland. 
Thomas.Elbert@uni-konstanz.de.
(3)vivo international NGO, Konstanz, Deutschland.
(4)Klinische und Biologische Psychologie, Universität Ulm, Ulm, Deutschland.
(5)Klinische Psychologie und Kompetenzzentrum Psychotraumatologie, Universität 
Konstanz, Universitätsstr. 10, 78457, Konstanz, Deutschland.
(6)Klinische Psychologie und Psychotherapie, Universität Bielefeld, Bielefeld, 
Deutschland.

With each additional accumulative exposure to severe and traumatic stressors, 
the likelihood of developing mental health problems and physical diseases 
increases. Displaced individuals have usually experienced a number of serious 
threats to health due to organized violence in their home country or attacks 
during the flight. Frequently, domestic violence adds additional strain to the 
stressors experienced. The resulting impairments in psychosocial functioning 
reduce the resources needed for social adjustment and integration. Social 
exclusion then in turn often further aggravates the existing mental health 
complications. For the treatment of trauma spectrum disorders, different 
evidence-based psychotherapies are available. In high-income countries, trained 
and licensed psychotherapists are typically in positions to apply such 
interventions; however, even an advanced system with a high capacity, such as 
the psychotherapeutic care offered in Germany, severely struggles to manage the 
demands associated with the rapid addition of hundreds of thousands of displaced 
people. Germany's mental healthcare system at present lacks the resources, both 
human and technological, to effectively manage the present demands. Systematic 
scientific studies in resource-poor regions of war and conflict have 
demonstrated that the dissemination of effective treatment to local personnel, 
even with limited training, results in substantial improvements in the mental 
health challenges within the community: Organized as a cascade model, members of 
the refugee community learn to identify weakened fellow citizens requiring 
in-depth diagnostic interviews. Educated, bilingual individuals acquainted with 
their country's healthcare system (e. g. nurses, teachers and social workers) 
receive training to conduct structured interviews and evidence-based 
interventions under the supervision of centrally organized licensed 
psychotherapists. More complex cases are referred to local psychotherapists, 
psychiatrists or specialized treatment centers. These humanitarian efforts are 
based on the convention for the protection of human rights and secure the 
safety, freedom and dignity of these persons.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-016-0245-3
PMID: 27853854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]