[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Immigrant health care in the United States

care nor pain management. Detainees often report receiving insufficient treatments and services, as well. Patients in various detention centers stated that they were denied surgeries due to delays by ICE or other forms of care such as physical exams and biopsies, receiving only pain killers instead.

CNBC reported that, as of August 2019, detention facilities do not currently nor plan to administer vaccines to detained individuals. Health professionals have criticized this policy, attributing it to outbreaks among detainees. In 2019, at least three detained children died from complications of contracting influenza while in detention. A study by Aiden Varan and his colleagues also found that ICE detainees were particularly susceptible to contracting chicken pox due to increased exposure in facilities. A study in the Center for Disease Control's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report indicated increasing outbreaks of mumps in facilities, as well. Both studies concluded that health initiatives that incorporated targeted vaccination efforts could mitigate the frequency of outbreaks.

The Center for Immigrants' Rights Clinic reported that medical units in detention facilities were also severely understaffed, requiring some patients to travel to off-site centers for their treatments. The Human Rights Watch also reported that there had been cases where medical staff had treated patients in capacities outside of the scope of their training and licenses. Additionally, many medical practitioners in detention facilities are not multi-lingual, which impedes effective communication by patients who do not speak English. Various detention centers provide phone translation services for this purpose. Laura Redman, the director of the Health Justice Program at New York Lawyers for the Public Interest, reported that numerous detained clients were never instructed on how they could make sick calls if needed.

In August 2019, a class action lawsuit was filed against ICE and the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The suit alleged that ICE and other federal officials were cognizant of the conditions and quality of medical care inside detention facilities yet took no action to remedy this.

Mental health 
A report from the Office of Inspector General has also indicated substandard treatment of detainees' mental health. Unsafe or isolating conditions can exacerbate mental health conditions such as depression or trauma, yet distrust, due to being forcibly detained, also prevents many immigrants from seeking mental health services.

Studies reveal that children are particularly vulnerable to adverse impacts on mental health. A review by the American Academy of Pediatrics indicated that young detainees may demonstrate emotional problems and post-traumatic symptoms, which can negatively impact development. Charles Baily and his colleagues also found that negative experiences in detention centers, supplemented by difficulties encountered in migration, can increase children's risk for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), anxiety, and depression.

Adults similarly report experiencing depression, self-harm, and post-traumatic symptoms. A review conducted by Kristen Ochoa found that detained immigrants with specific mental health needs were subjected to prolonged solitary confinement, restricted contact with family and friends, insufficient monitoring for detainees expressing suicidal ideation, and refusals to supply appropriately prescribed medications. In many reports, detainees with mental disabilities were observed as often physically restrained, shackled, or heavily medicated. The Center for Immigrants' Rights Clinic report indicated that most detainees were not informed of existing mental health services or how to file grievances. Many also expressed fear of being held in solitary confinement and thus did not express mental health concerns.

Reproductive and sexual health 
A report by the Southern Poverty Law Center indicated that detainees at LaSalle Detention Facility in Louisiana received insufficient menstrual products, such as sanitary pads and tampons. Media outlets such as The Daily Beast and Rewire News report that miscarriages and stillbirths in ICE custody have increased. Pregnant detainees who suffered vaginal bleeding, breast pain, and ovarian cysts stated that they faced delays and neglect by medical personnel as well. The ACLU, American Immigration Council, and other immigration advocacy groups compiled a report of complaints regarding the treatment of multiple pregnant detainees by ICE. This included inaccurate pregnancy tests, stress-inducing conditions, vaginal bleeding, denied requests for parole, insufficient nutrition, and shackling.

In interviews conducted by the Human Rights Watch, participating detainees stated that they had been denied forms of gynecological care such as Pap smears, hormonal contraceptives, and mammograms.