[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# War Governors' Conference

n "because they were defeated, but exhibited great military strategy in doing so." Governor David Tod of Ohio stated that he could not understand why some would want to remove McClellan and that he would block any attempt to do so. The debate continued until 12:30 a.m. until the topic was exhausted.

Despite the many heated debates that took place during the meeting, all governors except Augustus Bradford of Maryland consented to the final address. Bradford's disapproval is most likely a result of Maryland still being a slave state.  In the morning, Governor Austin Blair of Michigan arrived late but joined the fellow delegates in going to Washington, D.C. the same day.  With Blair's name, a total of twelve signatures were included on the address to be presented to the president.  No official minutes of the meeting were kept for security reasons. Perhaps because of this, the event is often overlooked by historians.

Once the delegation reached the White House on September 26, they read the document proclaiming the "rightful authority" of the president and "the constitutional powers of Congress" depend on "the rights and liberties of the people." The governors agreed "to continue in the most vigorous exercise of all our lawful powers, contending against treason, rebellion, and the public enemies until final victory and unconditional submission." The address went on to promote "the military education of the people."  Lincoln took their welcomed suggestions on internal management of the war effort, including recruiting, transport of troops, etc. However, the meeting became contentious when Governor Kirkwood of Iowa suggested that General McClellan was unfit for command.  Lincoln refused to argue either way on the issue, and promptly concluded the meeting.  Nevertheless, McClellan was relieved of command less than two months later and the Emancipation Proclamation came into effect on January 1, 1863.

The address was sent to other Union governors that were unable to attend the meeting. Of them, the executives of Vermont, Connecticut, Kansas, Minnesota, and Oregon all gave their approval of the document. It was declined by those of New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Kentucky, and Missouri, the latter three of which were still slave states.

Results of the meeting
The Loyal War Governors' Conference is often overlooked in the history of the American Civil War. However, it can be argued that it played an important role in the policies of Abraham Lincoln.  The President now had the re-affirmed support of the northern states to finish the war.  In observance of the 50th anniversary of the event, the Altoona Mirror stated, "It was this conference...which more than any other thing strengthened Lincoln's hands in the darkest hour of the war period."

The Emancipation Proclamation legally freed slaves in the seceded states and parts of states that were not under Union control. It did not affect slavery in the border states, or in those areas of Virginia, Tennessee, and Louisiana that were already occupied by Union forces. The proclamation influenced countries such as Britain and France against recognizing the Confederacy. Public sentiment in those countries was largely opposed to supporting states that maintained the institution of slavery.  Coincidentally, Lincoln suspended the Writ of Habeas Corpus in the United States the very same day that the governors met in Altoona.  It is not known whether these two events are connected in any way.  However, because of the meeting in Altoona, Lincoln was able to issue such a document with a new sense of authority and commitment that was delivered by the northern governors and the victory at Antietam.

Governors in Attendance

The Logan House and anniversary ceremonies

The Logan House Hotel, where the conference was held, was built in 1854 by the Pennsylvania Railroad.  Dubbed "Mansion in the Wilderness," it was considered one of the grandest hotels in the country at the time.  With 106 rooms, gas lighting, and hot running water, it was believed to be one of the most modern hotels of its age.  One visitor stated that the hotel was "about the size of Rhode Island."  Famous visitors to the hotel included presidents Ulysses S. Grant, Rutherford B. Hayes, and William Howard Taft. Mary Todd Lincoln and her children spent a few summer days at the Hotel to escape the heat and congestion of Washington, D.C.  Just a year after the Governors' Conference, David Wills of Gettysburg held a meeting there to begin plans for the establishment of the Gettysburg National Cemetery where Lincoln would deliver his immortal Gettysburg Address. The hotel was closed in 1927 and the building was demolished in 1931.  It is now the site of the Altoona Post Office.