[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Fernald Feed Materials Production Center

g sequence produces a hole all the way through the blank, a reamer was passed through this hole in the final position. The oversize Outer Diameter was turned concentric with the finished Inner Diameter on an automatic Sundstrand lathe. Subsequent operations were the same as those for the solid slug.

Plant 7
Plant 7 was known as the 6 to 4 Plant because UF6 was converted to UF4 here. It was basically a high-temperature gas-to-solid reactor system that only operated for two years: 1954–1956. To produce UF4, the uranium hexafluoride was first heated to form a gaseous compound and was then reduced to UF4. The reduction occurs in a reaction with hydrogen. UF6 vapor and hydrogen will be mixed at the top of each reactor by means of a cyclonic type mixer. The bulk of the reduction reaction will occur at the top of the reactor. The UF4 formed will be a powdery solid that falls like snow to the bottom of the reactor.

Plant 8
The Scrap Recovery Plant, the name given to Plant 8, process primarily involves upgrading uranium recycle materials from FMPC and off-site operations to prepare feed materials for head-end processing in the Refinery. Operations include drum washing, filtering Refinery tailings, operation of rotary kiln, box, muffle, and oxidation furnaces, and screening of furnace products.

Bomb liner material received from Plant 5 in mobile hoppers was emptied at an unloading station and elevated to a surge hopper. Material as needed was sent from the surge hopper through a jaw crusher and into a shelf type oxidation furnace. Here the metallic uranium was oxidized to triuranium octoxide (U3O8). The material discharged from the furnace was lifted to a surge hopper and then as needed was sent through a roll mill and ground to -325 mesh size. It was then fed into carbon brick digestion tanks where the uranium was dissolved in hydrochloric acid containing a little sodium chlorate. The undissolved solids were filtered off and dumped into a truck, which hauls the spent material to a scrap dump. Uranium in the filtrate was sent to a precipitation tank and precipitated with ammonium hydroxide (NH4OH), in presence of phosphoric acid to form UAP (uranyl ammonium phosphate). The resulting slurry was filtered and the uranium bearing cake was introduced to a drying furnace. The dried UAP was sent to the refinery. In addition to the wet system described, several furnaces were installed in the plant for massive metal oxidation, pyrohydrolysis, drying, chip and sludge combustion, etc. Most of the furnaces can be used for more than one of the above operations.

During the summer of 1962, a new facility was started in Plant 8 for the production of UF4 by an aqueous precipitation technique known as the Winlo process. The Winlo process was developed for the low-cost chemical conversion of relatively pure uranium concentrates to green salt by a hydrometallurgical process. The feed to the plant Winlo system was made up of a combination of black oxide (U3O8) generated by burning metallic residues, uranyl chloride solutions generated by dissolving massive metal residues in hydrochloric acid, and UAP produced from low-grade residues in the hydrometallurgical recovery system.

A brief description of the Winlo process follows:
 1. UAP (UO2NH4PO4) and (U3O8) were introduced through a new dumping station into an existing digester. Water, hydrochloric and nitric acids, and copper sulfate were added to the digester and the resultant slurry was agitated and heated to 200 °F by means of a new heat exchanger.
 The digested slurry was pumped to an existing Oliver precoat rotary filter.
 The filter cake was dropped to a drumming station, and the filtrate was pumped to one of two new agitated precipitation tanks. Each of these tanks contained a heat exchanger to heat the filtrate to 200 °F. Thirty percent hydrofluoric acid was metered to the filtrate from a storage tank. Then a metered quantity of sulfur dioxide was added from a storage tank during a period of 3 to 5 hours.
 The precipitated green salt was dropped by gravity to a pan-type filter where the green salt was washed and dried.
 The filtrate from the pan filter was neutralized in a new system and pumped to the chemical pit. The filter cake was dropped to a holoflite conveyor where it dried to UF4*3/4H2O and conveyed to a mobile hopper.
 These hoppers were transported to the Green Salt Plant and placed over an unused bank of reactors. The material was fed to these reactors countercurrent to a flow of anhydrous HF. The reactors were heated to 850 °F to dehydrate the green salt hydrate, and the reactor bank product was blended with regular production green salt in existing equipment. The diluted hydrofluoric acid gas was handled by the existing off-gas system.