[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1983–84 in English football

ision. Chelsea close the gap between themselves and the top three with a 4–0 home win over Newcastle United.

16 November 1983: England fail to qualify for the European Championships despite a 4–0 away win over Luxembourg in their final qualifying game, as Denmark win 2–0 in Greece to top the group.

19 November 1983: The first round of the FA Cup sees non-league sides Whitby Town and Telford United both overcome Football League opposition. In the First Division, Everton manager Howard Kendall is under mounting pressure after a 2–1 defeat at Arsenal leaves his side 17th in the table. Tottenham continue their surge up the table with a 4–2 win over Luton Town at Kenilworth Road. Liverpool remain top with a 1–0 home win over Stoke City. West Ham are still just a point behind the leaders with a 1–0 win over Sunderland at Roker Park. Frank Stapleton scores a hat-trick in Manchester United's 4–1 home win over Watford, which boosts their goal difference and keeps them level with West Ham and a single point behind Liverpool. Wolves are still winless 14 games into the season and claim their fourth point with a goalless draw at home to fifth-placed Coventry City. A 4–1 home win for Arsenal against Leicester takes some of the pressure off under-fire manager Terry Neill. In the Second Division, Newcastle crash out of the top three with a 4–2 defeat at leaders Sheffield Wednesday, allowing Chelsea to climb into the promotion places despite being held to a 2–2 draw at home by their London rivals Crystal Palace. Manchester City remain in the top three despite losing 2–0 to Carlisle United at Brunton Park.

21 November 1983: Worcester City become the third non-league team this season to knock Football League opposition out of the FA Cup when they beat Aldershot 2–1.

22 November 1983: FA Cup first round replays fail to produce any giant-killing feats but a non-league clash between London rivals Enfield and Wealdstone ends in a 2–2 draw and forces a second replay. There are also replays for four League Cup fourth round ties. Two of these matches go to a second replay – including Liverpool's clash with Fulham at Anfield, which ends in a 1–1 draw. The only league action of the day sees Chelsea go second in the table with a 3–1 win over Swansea City at the Vetch Field. Swansea are now bottom of the Second Division with just one win from their first 15 games and are currently seven points adrift of safety, a mere 18 months after finishing sixth in the First Division.

23 November 1983: Watford further boost their ranks with the £150,000 signing of 19-year-old defender David Bardsley from Blackpool. Maidstone United from the Alliance Premier League knock Third Division Exeter City out of the FA Cup in a first round replay.

26 November 1983: Kenny Dalglish scores his 100th competitive goal for Liverpool in a 1-1 league draw against Ipswich Town. Elsewhere, QPR fail to hold on to their lead at fellow Londoners Spurs, who win 3–2 thanks to Mark Falco's double and Steve Archibald's 15th of the season. Notts County boost their bid to keep clear of the relegation zone with a 5–2 win over Aston Villa. Leicester City are just two points adrift of safety after a 3–0 home win over Arsenal. Watford, runners-up in the league last season, are still in the bottom three after a 2–1 home defeat to local rivals Luton Town, who shoot up from 10th to fifth in the table. Wolves finally win a league game at the 15th attempt when they overcome local rivals West Bromwich Albion 3–1 at The Hawthorns. The highest-scoring game of the day sees Burnley boost their hopes of a quick return to the Second Division when they beat bottom-of-the-table Port Vale 7–0 at Turf Moor.

27 November 1983: Liverpool remain top of the First Division after their nearest rivals West Ham United and Manchester United draw 1–1 at Upton Park. A decisive result for either side would have seen the winner of the game going top of the league.

29 November 1983: Liverpool finally beat Fulham at the third attempt by triumphing 1–0 in front of nearly 21,000 fans at Craven Cottage in their League Cup third round second replay. The fourth round tie between Arsenal and Walsall at Highbury produces a shock result when the Third Division visitors win 2–1. The surprise result has echoes of Walsall's shock win over Arsenal back in January 1933, when they beat the Gunners 2–0 at Fellows Park.