[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Oren Lyons

epresentation in other media
Lyons was among those featured in the one-hour documentary Faithkeeper (1991), produced and hosted by Bill Moyers It was broadcast on PBS, July 3, 1991. He also appeared in the documentary The 11th Hour (2007), directed by Leila Connors and narrated by Leonardo DiCaprio.

Recognition
Lyons has been awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Syracuse University. Lyons serves on the board of the Harvard Project on American Indian Economic Development and is board chairman of Honoring Contributions in the Governance of American Indian Nations.

He has received the Ellis Island Medal of Honor, the National Audubon Society's Audubon Medal, the Earth Day International Award of the United Nations, and the Elder and Wiser Award of the Rosa Parks Institute for Human Rights. In 2022, he received a Lifetime Achievement Award at the Indian Gaming Association's Tradeshow and Convention.

Lyons has received high recognition for his lacrosse playing: 
In 1988 he was inducted into the Syracuse University hall of fame.
In 1989 he was named Man of the Year in Lacrosse by the NCAA. 
In 1993 he was inducted into the National Lacrosse Hall of Fame. 
In 1998 he was inducted into the Ontario, Canada Lacrosse Hall of fame. 
In 2000 he was inducted into the Upstate New York Chapter of USA Lacrosse Hall of Fame. 
In 2008 he was inducted into the Native American Hall of fame. The ceremony took place at the Seneca Nation Casino in Niagara Falls, NY.
In 2023 he was inducted into Canada's Sports Hall of Fame, as a builder of his sport.
He is Honorary Chairman of the Iroquois Nationals.

Published works
In addition to his writings, Lyons has collaborated on illustrating several children's books by Virginia Driving Hawk Sneve. He has written about indigenous issues, economic development and spiritual culture. He is the publisher of Daybreak Magazine.

Lyons, Oren, Donald Grinde, Robert Venables, John Mohawk, Howard Berman, Vine Deloria Jr., Laurence Hauptman, and Curtis Berkey. Exiled in the Land of the Free: Democracy, Indian Nations and the U.S. Constitution. Santa Fe: Clear Light Publications, 1992/reprint1998. .
Lyons, Oren. Wilderness in Native American Culture. Boise: University of Idaho Wilderness Research Center, 1989. ASIN B00072A6JG.
Oren Lyons, author. Voice of Indigenous Peoples: Native People Address the United Nations, Ewen, Alexander, ed.; Santa Fe: Clear Light Publications, 1993. .
Lyons, Oren, contributor, "Listening to Natural Law." in Spiritual Ecology, Vaughan-Lee, Llewellyn, ed.; Point Reyes: The Golden Sufi Center, 2013.

Children's books
Sneve, Virginia Driving Hawk. (Brulé Lakota), author, and Oren Lyons, illustrator. Jimmy Yellow Hawk. Holiday House, 1972. ASIN B001KRU62Y.
Lyons, Oren, author and illustrator. Dog Story. Holiday House, 1973. ASIN B003BGS43K.
Sneve, Virginia Driving Hawk, author, and Oren Lyons, illustrator. When Thunders Spoke. Bison Books, 1993. .
Sneve, Virginia Driving Hawk, author, and Oren Lyons, illustrator. High Elk's Treasure. Holiday House, 1995. .

Other contributions
 Gluckstein, Dana, author; Amnesty International, epilogue; Oren Lyons, introduction; Archbishop Desmond Tutu, foreword. Dignity: In Honor of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. powerHouse Books, 2010. 
Jorgensen, William, ed.; Oren Lyons, foreword. Rebuilding Native Nations: Strategies for Governance and Development. University of Arizona Press, 2007. .

See also
List of indigenous artists of the Americas

Notes

References
Hope, Marjorie and James Young. "Oren Lyons: Wisdom Keeper", in Whitefield, Freddie, ed. Visionaries: The 20th Century's 100 Most Important Inspirational Leaders. White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green Publishing Co., 2007. .

External links
 "Onondaga faithkeeper Oren Lyons speaks out on the environment: 'Business as usual is over'", Onondaga Nation
 "Oren Lyons – The Faithkeeper, Interview with Bill Moyers, 3 July 1991, Public Affairs Television", URL accessed 05/28/06
 Oren Lyons speech at the United Nations General Assembly Auditorium in New York
 

1930 births
American lacrosse players
Iroquois nations lacrosse players
Living people
Native American activists
Native American illustrators
Native American painters
Native American United States military personnel
Onondaga
Religious figures of the indigenous peoples of North America
Seneca people
Syracuse Orange men's lacrosse players
Syracuse University College of Visual and Performing Arts alumni
United States Army soldiers
First Nations sportspeople