[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1928 Indianapolis 500

suffered gouges to his arms, bruised legs, and cuts on his chin. Though DePaolo escaped serious injuries, he was sidelined for the remainder of the month. After the crash, the team led by chief mechanic Collon Henning Peters began repairing the car, in hopes of still qualifying with another driver.

At the end of the day, the front wheel drive machines swept the front row, and five of the top eight starting positions. A total of 19 cars had qualified, leaving 14 positions open.

 Source: The Indianapolis News

Sunday May 27
The second day of elimination trials was held on Sunday May 27. Five cars completed runs in front of a crowd estimated at 12,000–15,000 spectators. Pete Kreis was the fastest driver of the day. The field filled to 24 cars, leaving nine spots open.

Back in the garage area, the wrecked car of Peter DePaolo was being repaired. Bob McDonogh and Wilbur Shaw were being rumored as possible replacement drivers to the seat.

During the day, a tire changing contest was held between several of the pit crews. Dick Doyle and Bud Miller, servicing the car of George Souders, won the $50 top prize.

 Source: The Indianapolis News

Monday May 28
The third day of elimination trials was scheduled for Monday May 28. Although Monday was originally the final day allowed to qualify, officials announced that Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning may opened up due to prospects of a short field.

Clarence "C.W." Belt made history, becoming the first driver ever to qualify a V-type engine at Indianapolis.

 Source: The Indianapolis Star

Tuesday May 29
Despite a slippery track, three drivers completed qualifying attempts. Officials decided that the deadline to qualify would be set at 12 noon. Late in the afternoon Ted Miller, the relief driver for Buddy Marr, was taking practice laps in the #35 B.W. Cooke Special. Miller crashed at the south end of the track. Miller suffered a broken arm and lacerations, and was taken to the hospital. The car was badly damaged. The crew would work into the night to try to repair the car, but ran out of time, and withdrew on race morning.

 Source: The Indianapolis News The Indianapolis Star

Wednesday May 30
Two drivers, Wilbur Shaw and Jimmy Hill, received permission to qualify their cars at 5:00 a.m. on race morning. However, only Shaw took to the track. Shaw put Peter DePaolo's car in the field, a car repaired after the crash on Saturday. DePaolo was brought to the track by an ambulance, and cheered on the team lying on a stretcher trackside.

During practice runs just before the race, L. L. Corum and Dutch Bauman crashed their cars. Corum crashed in turn three. Bauman lost control in turn two and wrecked, but was not injured. Both cars were too damaged to race and both cars were withdrawn before the race started.

Starting grid

Qualified cars withdrawn
 Buddy Marr  (#35) – Practice crash May 29
 Dutch Bauman (#18) – Practice crash May 30; drove relief during the race for Tony Gulotta
 L. L. Corum (#17) – Practice crash May 30

Alternates
 None

Failed to qualify
 Jimmy Hill (#31) – Did not qualify
 Peter DePaolo – Crash during qualifying, injured
 Kelly Petillo (#29) – Practice crash
 Chet Miller (#35) – Practice crash
 Herman Schurch (#37) – Engine threw a rod
 Shorty Cantlon (#36) – Did not arrive; drove relief during the race for Henry Kohlert
 Prince Ghica-Cantacuzino (#42) – Did not arrive
 Bill Spence; drove relief during the race for Billy Arnold
 Phil Shafer

Race summary

Morning rain threatened to postpone the start of the race, scheduled for 10:00 a.m. central standard time. The first shower came through the area at 6:30 a.m., followed by another brief shower at 8:30 a.m. About fifteen minutes later, the rain stopped and the track began to dry. Changes to the starting lineup shuffled the grid Wednesday morning. With Wilbur Shaw putting the DePaolo car in the field, his car was placed at the rear of the field. Meanwhile, three cars were withdrawn on race morning due to crashes. Buddy Marr's car, wrecked on Tuesday, was not repaired in enough time and was scratched. L. L. Corum and Dutch Bauman both suffered crashes during practice runs early Wednesday morning, and both were withdrawn. Both crashes were blamed on the damp conditions. Corum was not seriously injured, and planned to drive relief for other cars during the race.

Jimmy Hill was unable to qualify, and there were no alternates, so the 33-car field would be short by four cars. Only 29 cars lined up in the grid to take the starter's flag.

Start
The track was still damp, but officials deemed it adequately dry for racing. The sun had come out, and the brick surface was drying quickly. With rain showers holding off, pace car driver Joe Dawson led the field around for one warm up lap. The field received the red starter's flag, and the race started on time.