[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dungeon Runners

ute the character's attribute points at any time by spending some of the character's gold. The charge for a Re-Spec was based on the character's level and was inexpensive up to level 20, after which the price increased much more quickly per level. The final level cap was 100.

Graphics and Gameplay 

The gameplay and graphics styling of Dungeon Runners had been compared to Diablo and Diablo II, especially noting the instanced dungeons (whose level layouts and content were randomly regenerated each time a player logged into the game), the "action RPG" gameplay style, the naming conventions for in-game items, the variable class structure based on three archetypes (five in Diablo II), and the absence of a "healer" class, among other similarities.  One notable difference is that Dungeon Runners was rendered using polygonal models, rather than the sprite-based isometric graphics of the Diablo series.

GameSpot and Eurogamer, stated that the graphical quality, third-person point of view and screen layout more closely resembled that of World of Warcraft, another MMORPG.

As of the latest 147 patch, a substantial graphics update was also added.

PvP 

NCsoft had introduced a PvP world where players could travel to the town of Pwnston and engage in single duels or group duels with other players. Each character started off with a PvP ranking of 1500 and this number changed according to duel outcomes.

Players could engage in single or group pvp combat and each side could have up to 5 players. The difficulty of the match was also scaled according to the ratio of the group sizes. For instance, a single player facing off against a team of two players would be at 100% power while the other team's two players would be toned down in damage and armor. Depending on your performance you might receive King's coins which could be spent on items.

Sound 

Dungeon Runners in-game music was composed by Tracy W. Bush as straight forward game music in the vein of Diablo II, whereas the boss monsters had their own theme songs, varying in such styles as black metal, synthpop, klezmer and funk.

End-of-Life Announcement and Shutdown (January 2010)

NCsoft said it would be refocusing its efforts on big-budget, top-tier MMOGs. The announcement was accompanied by news that NCsoft had laid off a number of developers working on its casual MMOG Dungeon Runners, as well as cancelled plans to bring the game to other platforms. Dungeon Runners had dropped, as producer and lead programmer Stephen Nichols confirmed that the game will be taken offline on December 31. Dungeon Runners, which operated under both a free-to-play, microtransaction-supported and subscription-based business model, launched to good reviews for the PC in July 2008.

"Dungeon Runners just isn't cutting the mustard", Nichols said on an announcement on the Dungeon Runners forum. "If she were a ship, she'd be taking on water. Yeah, she's been taking on water for a long time now. Are my cryptic references too hard to decipher? The game just isn't profitable. And, the first rule of business is to be profitable!"

Nichols went on to note that, while the team had a number of ideas to generate revenue, they would be expensive and risky to implement. He also noted that said plans would be greatly hampered given that two of the five developers on the game had recently departed from the team.

Nichols noted that those with paid memberships to Dungeon Runners would receive digital copies of City of Heroes''' Architect Edition and Guild Wars: Prophecies. The producer also stated that anyone who needed refunds for multiple-month membership purchases would be "taken care of".

The online service for Dungeon Runners'' ended on January 1, 2010. The website was shut down shortly thereafter on January 3, 2010. Many players had commented on the official forums that they thought the biggest mistake was the re-organization of the servers that occurred when the game went to a retail box version. Several of the servers were merged or made available to retail box purchasers only, and good game communities were broken up as a result.

References 
Notes

Bibliography
 Dungeon Runners official website
 Gaming Steve E3 interview with Mark Tucker
 MMORPG.com interview with Stephen Nichols, 05-Feb-2007
 NCSoft cuts 21 at Austin
 Dungeon Runners Shutting Down

External links 
 Dungeon Runners Review on MMORPG Center

2007 video games
Instanced massively multiplayer online role-playing games
Fantasy massively multiplayer online role-playing games
NCSoft games
Video games developed in South Korea
Windows games
Windows-only games
Inactive massively multiplayer online games
Products and services discontinued in 2010