[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tiruchengode

ng the nearby surrounding towns and villages.

Three worship services are offered each day. The late night worship service (Artha Jaama Pooja) is considered to be of importance here. New moon days are also considered to be special.
Moliapalli annamar swamy temple is located 15 km from thiruchengodu.

Transport
Tiruchengode is well connected by state as well as private buses from Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Rasipuram, Karur, Sankagiri, Attur, Kallakkurichi, Paramathi-Velur, Komarapalayam, Bhavani, Edappadi, Bangalore, Hyderabad etc.,
The nearest railway station is Sankari Durg (8 km) & Erode Cauvery RS (16 km) The nearest major Railway Junction Erode (23 km), Namakkal (37 km), Rasipuram (36 km) and Salem (46 km) The nearest sub railway station for Anangur(8 km).

The nearest airport is at Salem Airport(46 km), Coimbatore International Airport (120 km) & Tiruchirappalli International Airport (120 km)

Mobile and landline communications are well connected in tiruchengode having exchanges in Tiruchengode and Kootappalli. Mobile connection having 4G GSM services of all major networks.

Notable people

T.R. Sundaram Mudaliyar (16 July 1907 – 30 August 1963) was an Indian film actor, director, and producer more than 100 flims. He was the founder of the Salem-based film production company Modern Theatres Ltd.

Politics
Tiruchengode assembly constituency is part of Tiruchengode (Lok Sabha constituency). Recently, it has been included in the Namakkal Parliamentary constituency - from the 2009 elections onwards.[3]

Tiruchengode Municipality
The Tiruchengode Municipality is the civic body that governs the town of Tiruchengode

Chronological List of Chairmen
 V.V.C.R. Kandappa Mudaliar 
 Pachiyannan Mudaliar 
 M.P.R. Arthanari Mudaliar
 T.P. Arumugam Mudaliar 3 times elected chairman and ex MLA.
 R. Natesan
 Pon Saraswathi

Nalini Sureshbabu (Chairman from  2022)

See also
 Thirukodimaadachenkundrur
 Tiruchengode (Lok Sabha constituency)

References

External links

About Tiruchengode City
Link to download TiruchengodeCity App
About Ardhanareeswarar Hill Temple
About Chenkottu Velavar Temple

Cities and towns in Namakkal district