[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Rolle, 1st Baron Rolle

f naïveté, kindness, nature, good-nature, with propriety and dignity, which makes her so admirable and so endearing to those about her, as she certainly is.

The incident is also included in the latter part of the tenth verse of Richard Harris Barham's Mr. Barney Maguire's Account of the Coronation:

Building and engineering works
Lord Rolle constructed several major engineering works and other buildings including:
New road at Beaford, opened in 1829
Town Mills, Great Torrington, built in mock-castle style, with corner towers, octagonal turret chimney and crenellated walls 
Rolle Canal in North Devon, 6 miles between Torrington and Landcross. Associated works included a limekiln at Rosemoor, situated at the termination of the canal. In 1826 during the construction he ordered that "500 trees that are in the line are to be taken down, and two lime kilns, for the service of the farmers, are to be built".
Rolle Quay in his manor of Pottington, Pilton, next to Barnstaple, on the River Yeo. In 1830 he also built a sea wall at Pottington.
Two road bridges over the River Torridge near Torrington, at Town Mills and Half-penny Bridge at Weare Giffard
Sea-wall at Exmouth. Begun in 1841 and completed in 1842, under the direction of John Smeaton. Built of limestone, 1,800 feet long, 22 ft high, containing 70,000 cubic feet of stone, protected by a row of piles 12 feet long.
Chapel of the Holy Trinity, Budleigh Salterton, built by Lord Rolle in 1812 at the crossroads of Chapel Hill and East Terrace, as a chapel of ease to the parish church of his manor of East Budleigh. He referred to it in his will as "my chapel at Budleigh Salterton" and bequeathed the advowson to his wife, assuming she should continue to reside at Bicton. In 1891 Mark Rolle built the larger church of St Peter on a new site to meet the need of the expanded town.
Holy Trinity Chapel, Exmouth, built in 1824 to design of John Lethbridge. His widow added a chancel in 1856. Contains a 1907 memorial to Mark Rolle.
Exmouth: Louisa Terrace (1824) and Bicton Place, terraces of red brick and stucco Georgian houses to south and north respectively of Holy Trinity Church, in the vicinity of "The Beacon". 
Market House, Exmouth (1830).
Exmouth: plantations and walks under the Beacon.
National School, Great Torrington, built by Lord Rolle circa 1835, attended by about 150 children in 1850.
Rebuilding of part of the ancient Torrington Castle including battlements. Lord Rolle was lord of the manor of Great Torrington and nominally feudal baron of the ancient barony, effectively abolished by the Tenures Abolition Act 1660.

Estates purchased
Woodland, Little Torrington, across the River Torridge from South Healand, on the Stevenstone estate. Joseph Coplestone sold Woodland to Henry Stevens, Esq., of Cross, Little Torrington, who sold it to the Very Rev. Joseph Palmer, Dean of Cashel, who sold it to Lord Rolle.

Marriages
Rolle married twice, neither of which marriages produced any offspring.

First marriage

He was aged 20 1/2, therefore legally still a minor not having reached his majority of 21, when his father arranged for him to marry the 17-year-old Judith Maria Walrond. She was the daughter and heiress, by his wife Sarah Oke, of William Walrond, by then deceased, of Bovey House, Beer, between Beer (near Seaton) and Branscombe on the south Devon coast, thus near Bicton. The Walronds were a prominent and ancient Devon family, the main branch of which was seated at Bradfield House, Uffculme, which after the 1860 extensions became one of the largest mansions in Devon. The family had held the manor of Beer since the 13th century. Lord Rolle's adoptive heir Hon. Mark Rolle (died 1907) later rebuilt the large parish church of Beer. Rolle's father and Judith's mother procured an Act of Parliament in 1772 enabling the two minors to settle their prospective entailed inheritances into a marriage settlement, the beneficiaries being the offspring of the marriage. However no children resulted and Judith died in 1819.

Second marriage