[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# YMCA Youth Parliament

igenous Youth Parliament 
To mark the 50th anniversary of Indigenous Australians obtaining the right to vote, the Museum of Australian Democracy, YMCA, and Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) collaborated on a week long event in May 2012 for the first "National Indigenous Youth Parliament" (NIYP).

Participants were up to 25 years old and were selected from a group of more than 180 people for their leadership skills and interest in the parliamentary process. Each state and territory had six representatives; Torres Strait Islands had two representatives at the parliamentary event. They spent one week in Canberra and learned about the process of making laws, public speaking and fielding inquiries from the media. The State News Service reported that "The Bills passed by the Youth Parliament will then be presented to Government representatives for consideration in developing policies."

A video commemorating the event followed the experiences of participants of the event, including a 2-day parliamentary session at the Old Parliamentary House in Canberra. Of the event that taught participants about workings of the parliamentary process, one of the participants, Jaleesa Donovan, stated that she felt that she gained leadership skills and motivation to help her in her relationships and future as a community member and worker.

The youth met the prime minister, Parliament members, indigenous community members and the media. Tom Rogers, Acting Electoral Commissioner, said: "The young participants have returned to their communities to share their NIYP experiences and skills, and we look forward to seeing them again, who knows, perhaps as elected Members of Parliament."

Alumni 
 Glenn Docherty
 Kate Ellis
 Mia Handshin
 Adam Marshall
 Kate Jones
 Chris Crewther

See also 
 YMCA NSW Youth Parliament
 YMCA Youth and Government, United States
 Youth council

References

Further reading 
Articles
 "Amelia and Renee get top Billing at Camp 'Parliament'." Daily Examiner Grafton, N.S.W.. 4 May 2010.
Books
 James Arvanitakis (editor); Oxfam Community Aid Abroad (Australia), International Youth Parliament (contributors). (2003) Highly Affected, Rarely Considered: The International Youth Parliament's Commission Report on the Impacts of Globalisation on Young People. International Youth Parliament (IYP); Oxfam Community Aid Abroad, 2003. .

External links 
 YMCA Australia Youth Parliament Programs (official site)

Youth Parliament
Australian youth parliaments