[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# March 1973

who had served as Lieutenant Governor of California, as well as a prosecutor who survived a 1937 assassination attempt, committed suicide.
Lump, 16, Spanish dog who was constant companion to artist Pablo Picasso and sometimes depicted in Picasso's work, died 10 days before Picasso's April 8 passing.

March 30, 1973 (Friday)
Bonnie Tiburzi became the first female pilot for a major U.S. airline when she was hired by American Airlines.
Born: Adam Goldstein (DJ AM), American DJ, record producer and musician; in Philadelphia (d. 2009)
Died: 
William Kroll, 83, Luxembourg-born metallurgist who invented (in 1940) the Kroll process for extracting titanium from ore and later developed a process to make possible the manufacture of zirconium.
Sidney Farber, 69, American pediatric pathologist who developed modern chemotherapy treatment for leukemia and other cancers, then raised millions of dollars for cancer research.

March 31, 1973 (Saturday)
Red Rum won the Grand National steeplechase at Aintree, near Liverpool, UK defeating co-favourite Crisp on the run-in, having trailed by 15 lengths at the final fence.
Former heavyweight boxing champion Muhammad Ali and future heavyweight champ Ken Norton fought the first of three bouts against each other, with Ali sustaining a broken jaw in the second round and continuing to go the distance for the full 15 rounds. Norton won in a split decision by the judges, giving Ali only his second loss in his professional boxing career up to that time.
Seven people were killed in an explosion at a restaurant in Cincinnati, Ohio, and 19 injured, after the blast caused two buildings to collapse. All of the dead were in a three-story building that housed Clara and Al's Cafe at 1535 Elm Street.
An F4 tornado struck Abbeville, South Carolina and killed seven people.
A woman in the U.S. city of Cincinnati, Ohio, gave birth to two babies who were not twins, though they had the same biological parents. The unidentified woman had a rare condition of "two uteri, two mouths to the womb and two cervices", only the second time in recorded medical history that such an event had occurred.
Died: C. A. Lejeune (Caroline Alice Lejeune), 76, British film critic for The Observer of London as one of the first major female critics.

References

1973
1973-03
1973-03