[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# History of far-right movements in France

ndidacy for the presidential election.

During these presidential elections, Jean-Marie Le Pen only took 10.4% of the vote, compared to his 16.9% first round result in 2002, qualifying him for the second round, where he achieved 17.79% against 82.21% for Jacques Chirac (Rally for the Republic, RPR).

With only 1.85% in the second round of the 2002 legislative elections, the FN failed to gain any seats in the National Assembly. In the 2007 presidential election, Le Pen finished fourth, behind Nicolas Sarkozy, Ségolène Royal and François Bayrou. Philippe de Villiers, the Catholic traditionalist candidate of the Movement for France (especially strong in the conservative Vendée region), was sixth, obtaining 2.23% of the vote.

This electoral slump for the FN was confirmed at the 2007 legislative elections, the FN obtaining only 0.08% of the votes in the second round, and therefore no seats.

Le Pen's succession 

These electoral defeats, which contrasted with the high score obtained at the 2002 presidential elections, caused financial problems for the FN, which was forced to sell its headquarters, the Paquebot, in Saint-Cloud. Le Pen then announced, in 2008, that he would not compete again in presidential elections, leaving the way for contest for the leadership of the FN between his daughter, Marine Le Pen, whom he favoured,  and Bruno Gollnisch. The latter had been condemned in January 2007 for Holocaust denial, while Marine Le Pen attempted to follow a slicker strategy to give the FN a more "respectable" image.

FN 2010s surge 
Since her election as the leader of the party in 2011, the popularity of the FN continued to grow apace as the party won several municipalities at the 2014 municipal elections; it topped the poll in France at the 2014 European elections with 25% of the vote; and again won more votes than any other party in the 2015 departmental elections. The party once again came in first place in the 2015 regional elections with a historic result of just under 28% of the vote. By 2015, the FN had established itself as one of the largest political forces in France, unusually being both most popular and most controversial political party.

For the 2012 presidential election, Le Pen came third in the first round, scoring 17.9% – the partys then best showing ever for the FN.

For the 2017 presidential election, Le Pen came second in the first round, scoring 21.3% – the best showing ever for the FN. in the second round she came second with 33.9% a best for NF.

In 2018, the National Front was renamed National Rally.

2020s
In the run up to the 2022 presidential election, Éric Zemmour, a noted far-right pundit with no previous party affiliation or political experience, created his own party, Reconquête,  and overtook Le Pen in the polls.

For the 2022 presidential election, Le Pen came second in the first round, scoring 23.15% – the best showing ever for the RN. Zemmour got 7.07%. Total Far Right vote was 32%, the highest vote ever in a French election.

Le Pen came second in the second round, scoring 41.46% – the best showing ever for the RN or for a Far Right candidate.

In the June 2022 Assemblée Nationale election, the RN gained 89 seats in the national assembly, winning the party enough seats to form a parliamentary group for the first time since 1986.

Individuals and groups

Individuals

Raymond Abellio
Marc Augier
Jacques Bainville
Maurice Barrès
René Benjamin
Jacques Benoist-Méchin
Henri Béraud
Abel Bonnard
Paul Bourget
Pierre Boutang
Robert Brasillach
Renaud Camus
Louis-Ferdinand Céline
Jacques Chardonne
Alphonse de Châteaubriant
Léon Daudet
Pierre Drieu La Rochelle
Édouard Drumont
André Fraigneau
Pierre Gaxotte
Pierre Gripari
Kléber Haedens
Marcel Jouhandeau
Jacques de Lacretelle
Jean Mabire
Henri Massis
Thierry Maulnier
Charles Maurras
Jean-Pierre Maxence
Henry de Monfreid
Lucien Rebatet
Hugues Rebell
Paul Sérant
Pierre Sidos
Alain Soral
Georges Vacher de Lapouge
Dominique Venner
Pierre Vial
Éric Zemmour

Other minor groups 
Other minor groups that are or have been active in the Fifth Republic include:
Groupe Union Défense is French far-right student association
Bastion Social is a nationalist youth movement
Unité Radicale (one of its members, Maxime Brunerie, tried to assassinate President Jacques Chirac in 2002)
Les Identitaires, formerly Bloc identitaire, an offshoot of Unité Radicale, dissolved after Brunerie's assassination attempt, which publicly distributes so-called "identity soups" ("soupes identitaires"), that is "popular soups" with pork in order to exclude religious Jews and Muslims from them.
Parti Nationaliste Français et Européen (PNFE), a Pan-European nationalist group with which Brunerie was also associated.
Parti des forces nouvelles, formed from an early anti-Le Pen faction of the Front National.
Réseau Radical, a study group.
Troisième Voie, a Third Position movement with links to the far right student movement Groupe Union Défense.