[Source: PubMed]

82. Rural Remote Health. 2015 Jul-Sep;15(3):3174. Epub 2015 Sep 22.

Developing rural community health risk assessments for climate change: a 
Tasmanian pilot study.

Bell EJ(1), Turner P(2), Meinke H(3), Holbrook NJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Wicking Dementia Research and Education Centre, UTAS, Hobart, Tasmania, 
Australia. erica.bell@utas.edu.au.
(2)School of Computing and Information Systems, University of Tasmania, Hobart, 
Tasmania, Australia. paul.turner@utas.edu.au.
(3)Tasmanian Institute of Agriculture, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Tasmania, 
Australia. holger.meinke@utas.edu.au.
(4)Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies, University of Tasmania, Hobart, 
Tasmania, Australia. neil.holbrook@utas.edu.au.

INTRODUCTION: This article examines the development and pilot implementation of 
an approach to support local community decision-makers to plan health adaptation 
responses to climate change. The approach involves health and wellbeing risk 
assessment supported through the use of an electronic tool. While climate change 
is a major foreseeable public health threat, the extent to which health services 
are prepared for, or able to adequately respond to, climate change 
impact-related risks remains unclear. Building health decision-support 
mechanisms in order to involve and empower local stakeholders to help create the 
basis for agreement on these adaptive actions is an important first step. The 
primary research question was 'What can be learned from pilot implementation of 
a community health and well-being risk assessment (CHWRA) information 
technology-based tool designed to support understanding of, and decision-making 
on, local community challenges and opportunities associated with health risks 
posed by climate change?
METHODS: The article examines the complexity of climate change science to 
adaptation translational processes, with reference to existing research 
literature on community development. This is done in the context of addressing 
human health risks for rural and remote communities in Tasmania, Australia. This 
process is further examined through the pilot implementation of an electronic 
tool designed to support the translation of physically based climate change 
impact information into community-level assessments of health risks and 
adaptation priorities. The procedural and technical nature of the CHWRA tool is 
described, and the implications of the data gathered from stakeholder workshops 
held at three rural Tasmanian local government sites are considered and 
discussed.
RESULTS: Bushfire, depression and waterborne diseases were identified by 
community stakeholders as being potentially 'catastrophic' health effects 
'likely' to 'almost certain' to occur at one or more Tasmanian rural sites - 
based on an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change style of assessment. 
Consensus statements from stakeholders also suggested concern with health sector 
adaptation capacity and community resilience, and what community stakeholders 
defined as 'last straw' climate effects in already stressed communities. 
Preventative action and community engagement were also seen as important, 
especially with regard to managing the ways that climate change can multiply 
socioeconomic and health outcome inequality. Above all, stakeholder responses 
emphasised the importance of an applied, complexity-oriented understanding of 
how climate and climate change impacts affect local communities and local 
services to compromise the overall quality of human health in these communities.
CONCLUSIONS: Complex community-level assessments about climate change and 
related health risks and responses can be captured electronically in ways that 
offer potentially actionable information about priorities for health sector 
adaptation, as a first step in planning. What is valuable about these community 
judgements is the creation of shared values and commitments. Future iteration of 
the IT tool could include decision-support modules to support best practice 
health sector adaptation scenarios, providing participants with opportunities to 
develop their know-how about health sector adaptation to climate change. If 
managed carefully, such tools could work within a balanced portfolio of measures 
to help reduce the rising health burden from climate change.

PMID: 26394247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]