[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 88]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

I
myself will undertake it, with those who will voluntarily accompany me.'
They were struck with admiration at his proposal, and praised the
greatness of his mind, but set before him the certain destruction which
must attend him. 'All this,' said Leonidas, 'I have already considered;
but I am determined to go, with the appearance indeed of defending the
pass of Thermopylæ, but in reality to die for the liberty of Greece.'
Saying this, he instantly went out of the assembly, and prepared for the
expedition, taking with him about three hundred Spartans. Before he
went, he embraced his wife, who hung about him in tears, as being well
acquainted with the dangerous purposes of his march; but he endeavoured
to comfort her, and told her that a short life was well sacrificed to
the interests of his country, and that Spartan women should be more
careful about the glory than the safety of their husbands. He then
kissed his infant children, and charging his wife to educate them in the
same principles he had lived in, went out of his house, to put himself
at the head of those brave men who were to accompany him.

"As they marched through the city, all the inhabitants attended them
with praises and acclamations; the young women sang songs of triumph,
and scattered flowers before them; the youths were jealous of their
glory, and lamented that such a noble doom had not rather fallen upon
themselves; while all their friends and relations seemed rather to
exult in the immortal honour they were going to acquire, than to be
dejected with the apprehensions of their loss; and as they continued
their march through Greece, they were joined by various bodies of their
allies, so that their number amounted to about six thousand when they
took possession of the straits of Thermopylæ.

"In a short time Xerxes approached with his innumerable army, which was
composed of various nations, and armed in a thousand different manners,
and, when he had seen the small number of his enemies, he could not
believe that they really meant to oppose his passage; but when he was
told that this was surely their design, he sent out a small detachment
of his troops, and ordered them to take those Grecians alive and bring
them bound before him. The Persian troops set out and attacked the
Grecians with considerable fury; but in an instant they were routed, the
greater part slain, and the rest obliged to fly. Xerxes was enraged at
this misfortune, and ordered the combat to be renewed with greater
forces. The attack was renewed, but always with the same success,
although he sent the bravest troops in his whole army. Thus was this
immense army stopped in its career, and the pride of their monarch
humbled by so inconsiderable a body of Grecians, that they were not at
first thought worthy of a serious attack. At length, what Xerxes, with
all his troops was incapable of effecting, was performed by the
treachery of some of the Grecians who inhabited that country. For a
great reward they undertook to lead a chosen body of the Persians
across the mountains by a secret path, with which they alone were
acquainted. Accordingly, the Persians set out in the night, and having
passed over the mountains in safety, encamped on the other side.

"As soon as day arose, Leonidas perceived that he had been betrayed, and
that he was surrounded by the enemy; nevertheless, with the same
undaunted courage, he took all necessary measures and prepared for the
fate which he had long resolved to meet. After praising and thanking the
allies for the bravery with which they had behaved, he sent them all
away to their respective countries; many of the Spartans, too, he would
have dismissed under various pretences; but they, who were all
determined rather to perish with their king than to return, refused to
go. When he saw their resolution, he consented that they should stay
with him and share in his fate. All day, therefore, he remained quiet in
his camp; but when evening approached, he ordered his troops to take
some refreshment, and, smiling, told them 'to dine like men who were to
sup in another world.' They then completely armed themselves, and waited
for the middle of the night, which Leonidas judged most proper for the
design he meditated. He saw that the Persians would never imagine it
possible that such an insignificant body of men should think of
attacking their numerous forces; he was therefore determined, in the
silence of the night, to break into their camp, and endeavour, amid the
terror and confusion which would ensue, to surprise Xerxes himself.

"About midnight, therefore, this determined body of Grecians marched
out with Leonidas at their head. They soon broke into the Persian camp,
and put all to flight that dared to oppose them. It is impossible to
describe the terror and confusion which ensued among so many thousands
thus unexpectedly surprised. Still the Grecians marched on in close
impenetrable