[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tatars of Romania

d that serving a Christian army was not in accord with their Muslim identity. Other reasons included the 1899 famine in Dobruja, a series of laws from 1880 to 1885 regarding confiscation of Tatar and Turkish land, and the World War I (1916–18) which devastated the region.

Early 20th century to WWII

A unique Crimean Tatar national identity in Dobruja began to emerge in the last quarter of the 19th century. When Ismail Gasprinski, considered by many to be the father of Crimean Tatar nationalism, visited Köstence (Constanţa) in 1895 he discovered his newspaper Tercüman was already in wide circulation. However, it was the poet Mehmet Niyazi who is most credited with spreading nationalist ideas among the Tatars of Dobruja. In the wake of the fall of the Crimean Tatar government, Dobruja became the foremost place of refuge for Tatars from Crimea. Many of these refugees were inspired to join the Prometheus movement in Europe which aimed for the independence of Soviet nationalities. During this period Mustecip Hacı Fazıl (later took the surname Ulkusal) was the leader of community in Dobruja. In 1918, when he was 19 he went to Crimea to teach in Tatar schools and published the first Tatar journal in Dobruja, Emel from 1930 to 1940. He and other nationalists protested Tatar emigration from Dobruja to Turkey, believing resettlement in Crimea was preferable.

In the 1920s Dobruja persisted as the primary destination for refugees  escaping the Soviets. The Tatars were relatively free to organize politically and publish journals founded on nationalist ideas. During World War II many Tatars escaped from Crimea and took refugee with Crimean Tatar families in Dobruja who were subsequently punished harshly by Communist Romania. The refugees who attempted escape by sea were attacked by Red Army aircraft, while those who followed land routes through Moldavia managed to reach Dobruja before the Red Army captured and deported most of them to Siberia on May 18, 1944. Necip Hacı Fazıl, the leader of the smuggling committee was executed and his brother Müstecip Hacı Fazıl fled to Turkey.

Developments Post-WWII

In 1940 Southern Dobruja was given to Bulgaria and by 1977 an estimated number of 23,000 Tatars were living in Romania. According to Nermin Eren that number increased to around 40,000 by the 1990s. In 2005 The Democratic Union of Turkish-Muslim Tatars of Romania claimed that there are 50,000 Tatars in Romania, believing the census estimate is artificially low because most Tatars identified themselves as Turks. Nermin Eren also estimated the number of Tatars in Bulgaria to be around 20,000 in 1990s. The Bulgarian sources estimate it to be around 6,000, though they are aware that most Tatars intermarry Turks or identify themselves as Turks. Between 1947-1957 Tatar schools began operating in Romania and in 1955 a special alphabet was created for the Tatar community. In 1990 the Democratic Union of Muslim Tatar-Turks was established. Currently Romania respects the minority rights of Tatars and does not follow any policy of Romanianization.

Notable people

 Kázím Abdulakim
 Denis Alibec, footballer
 Melek Amet, fashion model
 Nejla Ateş
 Emin Bektóre
 Şahip Bolat Abdurrahim
 Dimitrie Cantemir
 , politician
 Deniz Giafer, footballer
 Edris Fetisleam, tennis player
 Tahsin Gemil
 Yusuf Isa Halim, linguist
 Sîdîyîk Ibrahim H. Mîrzî
 Murat Iusuf, cleric
 Refiyîk Kadír
 Kemal Karpat
 Mehmet Niyazi, writer
 Ahmet Nurmambet
 Kadriye Nurmambet, musical artist
 Aihan Omer, handball player and coach
 Negiat Sali, politician
 Atila Septar, rugby player
 Erdinci Septar, rugby player
 Sevil Shhaideh, politician
 Septar Mehmet Yakub
 Taner Murat
 Ismail H. A. Ziyaeddin

Language 

Dobrujan Tatar or Romanian Tatar (Tatarşa, Татарша or Tatar tílí, Татар тілі) is the Tatar language of Romania. It includes  Crimean Tatar and Nogai dialects, but today there are no more longer sharp distinction between this dialects and it's mostly seen as a one language. This language belongs to Kipchak Turkic languages, specifically to Kipchak-Nogai and is influenced by Turkish and Romanian.

Dialects 
Tatar language in Romania has three dialects: 
 
 The Şól dialect (Şól tílí) spoken by about 70% of Romanian Tatars. It's spoken mainly in the south and center of Constanța and has been heavily influenced by Oghuz.
 The Nogay dialect (Nogay tílí) spoken by about 20% of Romanian Tatars. It's spoken in Tulcea, near and far north of Constanța, and is the most conservative in preserving Kipchak elements.
 The Yalîbolu dialect (Yalîbolu tílí) spoken by about 10% of Romanian Tatars. It's spoken around the cities of Hacıoğlu Pazarcık (Dobrich) and is the closest to Oghuz languages. 
 
They differ mainly in pronunciation, and to some extent in vocabulary.

Alphabet 
For the Tatar language in Romania is Latin alphabet used. 

Latin

Subgroups