[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# National Museum of Beirut

world. Other artifacts of note are the naturally preserved Maronite mummies of ‘Assi el Hadath cave in the Qadisha valley and the frescoed tomb of Tyre.

Despite issues with political violence and civil upheaval, Lebanon's museums have promoted national identity and cultural heritage.

Architecture

The museum was designed in a French inspired Egyptian Revival architecture by the architects Antoine Nahas and Pierre Leprince-Ringuet, and built with Lebanese ochre limestone. It comprises a basement, a ground floor, a mezzanine floor and a terrace; the central block is covered by a glass roof, above the mezzanine, giving natural overhead light.

The whole site is approximately , and the exhibition floor space totals . The immediately adjoining museum annexes and administrative offices occupy about .

The preservation of cultural heritage sites was greatly assisted by landscape architects, who worked to incorporate historical sites into the planning of public areas and provide fresh ways for residents to interact with one other , also essential for preserving its identity especially in museums.

Collections
The National Museum of Beirut currently exhibits 1300 artifacts from its collection of approximately 100,000 objects. The museum displays follow a chronological circuit beginning in Prehistory and ending in the Ottoman era. The circuit begins on the ground floor where 83 large objects are displayed, these include sarcophagi, mosaics statues and reliefs. The upper floor displays 1243 small and medium-sized artifacts arranged by chronological order and by theme in modern showcases with soft lighting and magnifying glasses that emphasize the aesthetic aspect of the artifacts.

Prehistory
The collection has prehistoric artifacts from early hunter-gatherer societies ranging from the Lower Paleolithic (1M–150,000 BC) to the Neolithic (9000–3200 BC), typically spearheads, flints, hooks and pottery.
These were found in caves and rock shelters all over Lebanese territory. Around five hundred prehistoric sites have been surveyed in Lebanon as a whole, and around fifty sites in Beirut itself.

Bronze age

The Bronze Age (3200–1200 BC) saw the birth of Lebanon's first fortified villages, the development of commercial and maritime activities and the invention of the world's first alphabet in Byblos. This collection includes the museum's masterpiece: the sarcophagus of Ahiram, which holds the oldest text written in the Phoenician alphabet.

Collection highlights:
 From the Temple of the Obelisks in Byblos:
 The Byblos figurines: gilded bronze, Obelisk temple – Byblos, 19-18th century BC.
 Decorated knife:gold and ivory, Obelisk temple – Byblos, 19-18th century BC.
 Fenestrated axes: gold, Obelisk temple – Byblos, 19-18th century BC.
 Statuette of Reshep: gilded bronze, Obelisk temple – Byblos, 19-18th century BC.
 Abishemu obelisk: 
 From the Byblos royal cemetery:
 Ahiram sarcophagus: limestone, Byblos royal cemetery, 10th century BC.
 King Ip Shemu Abi's crown and scepter: gold and bronze, Royal cemetery, Byblos, 18th century BC.
 King Abi Shemu's jewelry collection: gold and precious stones, Royal cemetery, Byblos, 18th century BC.
 Duck shaped cosmetic box: ivory, Sidon, 14th century BC.

Iron age
The Iron Age (1200–333 BC) in Lebanon saw the climax of the Phoenician civilization, which culminated in its maritime expansion and the transmission to other cultures of the alphabet (which was attributed by the Greek legend to the Tyrian Cadmus). During this period, after an era of autonomy, the city-states of the area came under Assyrian, Babylonian and Persian hegemony. The occupying civilizations influenced Phoenician ceramics, jewelry and ivory work, statues, and sarcophagi.

Key highlights of the collections include: 
 the Ford Collection sarcophagi: marble, 4th century BC.
 votive statues from the Temple of Eshmun: marble, Bustan esh Sheikh, 4th century BC.
 capital with bull protomes,: marble, Sidon, 5th century BC.

Hellenistic period

The Hellenistic period (333–64 BC). In 333 BC, the decisive victory won by Alexander the Great over the Persian king Darius III opened Phoenicia to the Greek conqueror.

After Alexander's death, Phoenicia first came under Ptolemaic rule from Egypt, then, after the Battle of Panium, under the Seleucids based in modern Iraq. The Seleucids abolished local monarchies, and appointed governors (bearing Greek names) to rule the Phoenician cities.

Greek influence, which had made its way to Phoenicia during the Persian period, now became stronger. Figurines found in the Phoenician Sanctuary of Kharayeb show Aegean influence on local craftsmen. This spreading Hellenization interacted with the local Semitic population substratum, which remained faithful to its gods and its language. It resulted in an artistic and architectural symbiosis best illustrated in the artifacts of Umm al-Amad and Bustan esh Sheikh.