[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Humanitarian aid during the 2006 Lebanon War

left from by air to Henry Coandă Airport in Bucharest, arriving there the next day, few hours after the midnight. The evacuation of others was reported to be ongoing, but their arrival at the embassy is known to be burdened by the destruction of the roads. There is no evacuation news since July 21.

Russia
A total of 1,407 Russian and Commonwealth of Independent States citizens were evacuated by Aeroflot and Russia's EMERCOM flights from Damascus, Latakia and Cyprus. Even though Russian consular officers estimated there were no more than 100-150 Russian nationals left in Lebanon by that time, mainly in the south of the country, further Emercom flights brought hundreds more people home. Additional flights evacuated Russian nationals from Gaza Strip (via Amman).

Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka has over 93,000 nationals stranded in Lebanon, 86,000 of whom are females working as domestic maids. The evacuation effort has stalled, with only a small proportion of the Sri Lankan population able to leave. The Indian Government has assisted in the evacuation of several hundred nationals.

Sweden 
On July 18, 2,264 out of the approximately 7,000 Swedish citizens arrived in Sweden from Lebanon. On July 20, another 1,500 Swedes
arrived in Sweden for a total of 3,700. As of July 24 it is believed most Swedes have now been evacuated, totaling around 7,000. It is believed that around 200 Swedish citizens have not been able to leave southern Lebanon, due to the heavy bombardment.

Among the evacuated Swedes are film director Josef Fares and his brother, actor Fares Fares, who were on vacation in Lebanon.

Turkey
On July 24, a military transport vessel belonging to Turkish Navy docked at Beirut to evacuate 1200 Turkish citizens. The evacuation process was overseen by a detachment of Turkish Naval Commandos (SAT) while the vessel herself was escorted by two gunboats. All refugees were successfully transported to Turkey, and the Turkish Ministry of Logistics reported that there were no further Turkish citizens in need of immediate evacuation.

United Kingdom 
On the evening of July 15, news came through that the British aircraft carrier HMS Illustrious, and accompanying task force, then docked at Gibraltar, were being readied to steam to the area off the Lebanese coast, and secure it with force if necessary. This was later confirmed to be in support of the British Government's plan (announced late on July 16) to evacuate British, Commonwealth, and EU nationals from Lebanon. By July 17, the MOD confirmed that two Royal Navy ships were already off the coast of Lebanon and four more were on the way.

Illustrious and HMS Bulwark were steaming towards the area from the western Mediterranean and arrived by noon on July 20 to assist with evacuations. HMS Gloucester and HMS York were already in the area, and Gloucester had already evacuated 180 British nationals from Beirut. Also, the Royal Fleet Auxiliary stores ship RFA Fort Victoria and the Type 23 frigate HMS St Albans headed for the area to assist in the evacuation. The evacuation by sea was expected to take around a week to complete. A group of RAF Chinook helicopters were sent from RAF Odiham in Hampshire in England to RAF Akrotiri on Cyprus. Amongst those evacuated from Beirut by the RAF was Javier Solana, the EU foreign policy commissioner.

United States