[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Franz Burgmeier

in the cup and reaching the promotion play-off game. However, they were defeated by Schaffhausen and were left with only ten players on secure contracts for the following season. Burgmeier himself left Vaduz after five years with the club, during which he played 115 league games and scored 27 goals.

Aarau
Burgmeier, instead, moved to Aarau in Switzerland. His debut came in a 2–0 league defeat to Thun, before he was substituted near the end of the second half. Aarau were in the Super League, and finished seventh in Burgmeier's only season with the club, in which he played 35 league games. His only league goal came in the second round of matches against St. Gallen, but he also scored in both the first two rounds of the Swiss Cup—his first games in the cup since Vaduz were not eligible for the competition—before they were eliminated in the quarter-finals on penalties. His form with Aarau won Burgmeier the Liechtensteiner Footballer of the Year award, one point ahead of fellow international Mario Frick, and also earned him a move to Basel, for whom he signed a three-year contract.

Basel
Burgmeier's first role with Basel was to play in the Uhrencup as they defeated German-side FC Köln 2–1, to share the trophy with FC Zürich. Basel had finished the previous season as runners-up in the league to Zürich on goal difference and so qualified for the following season's UEFA Cup. Burgmeier made his Basel debut in the competition as they defeated Kazakhstan's Tobol 3–1 on 13 July, before he was replaced by Scott Chipperfield. The second leg ended in a draw, sending Basel through. The second qualifying round draw gave Burgmeier a chance to return to Vaduz. He was a substitute in both games as his new team won on away goals. They went on to qualify for the group stages, in which they finished bottom of their division, with two points from four games. Burgmeier scored his first goal for his new club in a 4–2 away defeat against Sion, but again the side only ranked in the Championship behind Zürich, this time by one point. Their disappointment was offset by an extra time victory over Luzern in the final of the Swiss Cup.

Burgmeier injured his ankle at the start of the 2007–08 season, and after playing only four league games, Thun signed him on a six-month loan deal in January 2008. He played 17 times for Thun, who finished bottom of the Super League. Thun were also knocked out of the Swiss Cup by Burgmeier's main employers in the semi-finals. On 13 July 2008, his contract with Basel was terminated early to allow him to find himself a new club after just 23 league appearances because he was seen as surplus to requirements by manager Christian Gross.

Darlington
While playing for Liechtenstein against England in a 2004 European Championships qualifying match at Old Trafford in 2003, Burgmeier was spotted by Max Houghton. Although Liechtenstein lost 2–0, Houghton was impressed by Burgmeier's stamina and effort. When Burgmeier was released by Basel in 2008, Houghton, then 12 years old, suggested to his grandfather, George Houghton, who was chairman of English side Darlington that he should be given a trial. Following a successful trial, Burgmeier, who was keen to move abroad, was signed by the League Two-side on a one-year contract at the end of August 2008 to become the first Liechtensteiner to play in England.

Burgmeier made his debut on 23 August, in a 2–1 defeat to Gillingham at The Darlington Arena. He scored his first goal for Darlington in a 2–1 win against Port Vale on 13 September. Manager Dave Penney praised Burgmeier for the start he made to the club, both as a goal scorer and creator, which also helped him to play his way into the affections of the club's supporters. When Burgmeier won his 49th cap for Liechtenstein against Wales, it was his fourth in the two months since he joined Darlington. It took him past the club record three caps of Canadian Jason de Vos and New Zealander Adrian Webster, with a coach-load of Darlington fans there to see him play at the Millennium Stadium. His next cap clashed with Darlington's FA Cup first round replay with Conference North-side Droylsden, in which they were defeated.

Darlington's promotion campaign was dealt a blow in February 2009, when club chairman George Houghton placed the club in administration. As a result, the club were deducted 10 points, a penalty from which they could not recover finally finishing 12th. Burgmeier finished with two goals during the season having played 35 games, but like the rest of the playing squad, was told he could find a new club by Darlington's administrators.

Return to Vaduz
Following Darlington's financial problems, Burgmeier returned home to Liechtenstein and signed with his former club Vaduz on a one-year contract after the end of the 2008–09 season.