[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Prehistory of Taiwan

on Taiwan was in Xiaoma cave in Chenggong in the southeast of the island, dating from about 4000 BC, of a male similar in type to Negritos found in the Philippines.  There are also references in Chinese texts and Formosan Aboriginal oral traditions to pygmies on the island at some time in the past.

In December 2011, a skeleton dated about 8,000 years ago was found on Liang Island, off the north coast of Fujian. In 2014, the mitochondrial DNA of the Liangdao Man skeleton was found to belong to Haplogroup E, which is today found throughout Maritime Southeast Asia. Morover, it had two of the four mutations characteristic of the E1 subgroup.
From this, Ko et al. infer that Haplogroup E arose 8,000 to 11,000 years ago on the north Fujian coast, travelled to Taiwan with Neolithic settlers 6,000 years ago, and from there spread to Maritime Southeast Asia with the Austronesian language dispersal.
Soares et al. caution against overemphasizing a single sample, and maintain that a constant molecular clock implies an earlier date (and more southerly origin) for Haplogroup E remains more likely.

Neolithic 

Between 4000 and 3000 BC, the Dapenkeng culture (named after a site in Taipei county) abruptly appeared and quickly spread around the coast of the island, as well as Penghu.
Dapenkeng sites are relatively homogeneous, characterized by pottery impressed with cord marks, pecked pebbles, highly polished stone adzes and thin points of greenish slate.
The inhabitants cultivated rice and millet, and engaged in hunting, but were also heavily reliant on marine shells and fish.
Most scholars believe this culture is not derived from the Changbin culture, but was brought across the Strait by the ancestors of today's Taiwanese aborigines, speaking early Austronesian languages.
No ancestral culture on the mainland has been identified, but a number of shared features suggest ongoing contacts. However, the overall neolithic-era of Taiwan strait is said, by scholars, to have been descended from Neolithic cultures in the lower Yangtze area, particularly the Hemudu and Majiabang cultures. Physical similarity has been noted between the people of these cultures and the Neolithic inhabitants of Taiwan.

In the following millennium, these technologies appeared on the northern coast of the Philippine island of Luzon (250 km south of Taiwan), where they, and presumably Austronesian languages, were adopted by the local population.
This migration created a branch of Austronesian, the Malayo-Polynesian languages, which have since dispersed across a huge area from Madagascar to Hawaii, Easter Island and New Zealand.
All other primary branches of Austronesian are found only on Taiwan, the urheimat of the family.

The successors of the Dapenkeng culture throughout Taiwan were locally differentiated.
The Fengpitou (鳳鼻頭) culture, characterized by fine red cord-marked pottery, was found in Penghu and the central and southern parts of the western side of the island, and a culture with similar pottery occupied the eastern coastal areas.
These later differentiated into the Niumatou and Yingpu cultures in central Taiwan, the Niuchouzi (牛稠子) and Dahu cultures in the southwest, the Beinan Culture in the southeast and the Qilin (麒麟) culture in the central east.
The Yuanshan culture (圓山) in the northeast does not appear to be closely related to these, featuring sectioned adzes, shouldered-stone adzes and pottery without cord impressions.
Some scholars suggest that it represents another wave of immigration from southeast China, but no similar culture is known from there either.

Archaeological evidence of prehistoric cultures dating back 4500 years before present was found in Nangang Village, Cimei, Penghu in 1983.

The Niuchouzi Culture flourished around what is now Tainan 2,500 BC to 1,000 BC. They are known for orange pottery decorated with rope patterns. 

In the early Neolithic period, jade was used only for tools such are adzes, axes and spear points.
From about 2500 BC, jade ornaments began to be produced, peaking in sophistication between 1500 BC and 1 AD, particularly in the Beinan Culture of southern Taiwan.
All the jade found on Taiwan came from a deposit of green nephrite at Fengtian, near modern Hualien City.
Nephrite from Taiwan began to appear in the northern Philippines between 1850 and 1350 BC, spawning the Philippine jade culture.
Around the beginning of the Common Era, artisans in Taiwan switched from jade to metal, glass and carnelian. 
However, Philippine craftsmen continued to work jade from Taiwan until around 1000 AD, producing lingling-o pendants and other ornaments, which have been found throughout southeast Asia.

Iron Age