[Source: PubMed]

19. Confl Health. 2024 Sep 14;18(1):56. doi: 10.1186/s13031-024-00615-3.

A psychosocial bouldering intervention improves the well-being of young refugees 
and adolescents from the host community in Lebanon: results from a pragmatic 
controlled trial.

Luttenberger K(1), Baggenstos B(2), Najem C(3)(4), Sifri C(5), Lewczuk 
P(6)(7)(8), Radegast A(9), Rosenbaum S(10).

Author information:
(1)Department Medical Psychology and Medical Sociology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany. 
katharina.luttenberger@uk-erlangen.de.
(2)ClimbAID, Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Spine, Head and Pain Research Unit Ghent, Department of Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Ghent University, Ghent, 
Belgium.
(4)Department of Physiotherapy, Faculty of Public Health, Antonine University, 
Baabda, Lebanon.
(5)Branch of ClimbAID, ClimbAID Lebanon, Zurich, Switzerland.
(6)Department Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Faculty of Medicine, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(7)Department of Neurodegeneration Diagnostics, Medical University of Białystok, 
Białystok, Poland.
(8)Department of Biochemical Diagnostics, University Hospital of Białystok, 
Białystok, Poland.
(9)Department Medical Psychology and Medical Sociology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(10)School of Clinical Medicine, Discipline of Psychiatry and Mental Health, 
Faculty of Medicine and Health, UNSW, Sydney, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Mental health and psychosocial support (MHPSS) is increasingly 
considered vital for addressing the needs of displaced communities. The mental 
health of young people in Lebanon, including members of the host community and 
refugees, has been severely affected by multiple crises. Physical activity (PA) 
is an effective means for enhancing mental health, but evidence of PA's impact 
on mental health among forcibly displaced populations is still emerging and 
often varies widely across studies.
METHOD: In this waitlist-controlled study, we examined the effectiveness of an 
8-week psychosocial bouldering group intervention offered by the nonprofit 
organization ClimbAID on psychological well-being, distress, self-efficacy, and 
social cohesion in a group of mostly Syrian refugee adolescents residing in the 
Bekaa Valley, Lebanon. The intervention consisted of 8 sessions and took place 
once a week for 2 h in a group of up to 12 adolescents with 2 trained 
facilitators and up to 2 volunteers, supervised by a climbing instructor and a 
social worker. Multilevel analyses were performed for all outcomes.
RESULTS: 233 people were included in the study. The dropout rate was 
approximately 33%. The IG improved significantly more than the waitlist group in 
terms of overall mental well-being and psychological distress. Group allocation 
was a significant predictor of improvements in mental well-being and 
psychological distress and showed a trend toward predicting self-efficacy. There 
was no positive impact of the intervention on social cohesion.
CONCLUSIONS: Even in complex humanitarian settings of forced displacement, a 
psychosocial bouldering intervention reduces psychological distress and 
increases well-being in a mixed group of host and refugee youth in Bekaa, 
Lebanon.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Prospectively registered with ISRCTN 13005983, registered 
April 1st, 2022.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13031-024-00615-3
PMCID: PMC11402205
PMID: 39277748

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.