[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Shanghai Campaign

The Shanghai Campaign was a series of battles fought between the nationalists and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) for the control of Shanghai, the largest city in China in the latter stage of the Chinese Civil War, and resulted in the city being taken over by the communists, who enjoyed numerical superiority.

Prelude 

With a population of six million, Shanghai was the largest city in China in 1949 and provided around a third of the total GDP of China by that time.  Both the CCP and the nationalists believed that World War III was a real possibility and this perception influenced the strategic decisions of both sides.

The nationalists who defended the city had hoped that by using the resources of China's wealthiest city, they could last until World War III when foreign intervention would occur. With foreign intervention, not only they would be able to defend the city, but also counterattack and take China back.  If the city could not last until World War III, the nationalists could withdraw via sea and transfer the wealth with them, after destroying the city completely, as in the scorched earth policy used against the Japanese invaders in many parts of China during World War II.  Although the truthfulness of this perception of the nationalists remained in question, the communists certainly believed that there was a possibility, as the nationalist propaganda had claimed, and thus was determined not to let it happen by taking the city as early as possible.

Defending force: the nationalist strategy 
The nationalist commander divided the city into two sectors along the Huangpu River.  The western half of the city and the surrounding regions including Taicang, Kunshan, Jiaxing, and Golden Mountain Jinshan, were defended by a total of 20 divisions (including all of the armored force) belonging to the 21st Army, the 51st Army, the 52nd Army, the 54th Army, the 75th Army and the 123rd Army.  The 12th Army and the 35th Army totaled five divisions and the naval and air assets were tasked to defend Pudong, with emphasis on regions included Wusong, Yuepu (月浦), Yanghang (杨行), Liuhang (刘行), Dachang (大场), Gaohang (高行), and Gaoqiao, in order to secure the escape route via sea.  The nationalist force defending the city totaled more than 210,000.  The buildings in the city were perfect defending positions which were further boosted by large amount of the concrete bunkers built.

Attacking force: the communist strategy 
The PLA 3rd Field Army under the commander-in-chief Chen Yi and deputy commander-in-chief Su Yu was tasked to take the city.  The communists massed more than 290,000 troops totaled 10 armies to attack the city, while the communist 2nd Field Army under the commander-in-chief Liu Bocheng and political commissar Deng Xiaoping massed at Jinhua and Dongxiang (东乡) via Zhejiang-Jiangxi railway, in order to prevent any foreign intervention that never came.  The primary goal of the communists was to take the city with minimal damage to the city and minimal civilian casualties, so that future reconstruction would be easy by utilizing the existing infrastructure and skilled labor force.  To prevent the defenders from transferring large amount of wealth via sea, a pincer movement would be launched from both the east and west, targeting Wusong, so that the defenders' escape route via sea would be cut and the city would be attacked afterward and by isolating the defenders into separate pockets, and then the city would be taken by decimating the isolated defenders.

One prong of the communist pincer movement included the 26th Army, the 28th Army, the 29th Army, the 33rd Army of the communist X Corps and a part of the communist Artillery Column attacking from Changshu and Suzhou toward Kunshan, Taicang, and Jiading, eventually reaching Wusong, thus blocking off the defenders' escape route via sea by cutting off the traffic of Huangpu River.  Afterward, this prong of the pincer movement would attack the city from northwest.

The other prong of the communist pincer movement included the 20th Army, the 27th Army, 30th Army, and the 31st Army of the communist IX Corps and a part of communist Artillery Column.  Two armies would attack from Nanxun and Wujiang, toward Fengxian, Nanhui, Chuansha regions near/in Pudong, helping the communist X Corps to blockade the Wusong after approaching Gaoqiao.  Another two armies would group at the regions south of Songjiang and east of Jiaxing, taking Qingpu when the situation permitted, and then attack the city from the east, south and west.

In case of the defenders were successful in transferring materials away from the city, the attackers also prepared large amount of food and coal for the civilian population, and over 5,000 communist civilian cadres were also drafted to take over the administrative functions after the city was taken.