[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abdullah Sadiq

actometers, crystal growth equipment, and. Auger spectroscopy. All of these facilities have been established for this purpose and the necessary experience acquired. This work is mainly concentrated at PINSTECH and Quaid-i-Azam University in Islamabad and the Abdus Salam Solid State Centre in Lahore.

After retiring from PAEC, Abdullah Sadiq worked as a professor of high-energy physics in many universities of Pakistan. Due to his work in Pakistan and PAEC. Abdullah Sadiq is considered one of the prominent nuclear physicists and nuclear scientists in Pakistan. He is also a visiting scientist at the Riazuddin National Center of Physics at the Quaid-i-Azam University. Sadiq has contributed to the reputed international physics journals recognised worldwide by the scientists. In 2002, President of Pakistan General Pervez Musharraf also conferred on him Pakistan's third highest civilian award Sitara-e-Imtiaz for his diverse contributions to education and research in physics.

Published papers 
 Physics in My Life, Abdullah Sadiq, Riazuddin National Center of Physics, Quaid-i-Azam University.
Transport coefficients from computer experiments: A stochastic Ising model, Department of Physics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801

Bibliography 
Condensed Matter Theories by John W. Clark, Abdullah Sadiq (Editor), Khan A. Shoaib (May 1994)
Kinetics of Domain Growth in Two Dimensions by Abdullah Sadiq and K. Binder
Transport coefficients from computer experiments: A stochastic Ising model by Abdullah Sadiq

Association 
 Member of National Science Talent Contest organising team, a team that selects the most talented of the students from all over Pakistan to represent the country in International Olympiads of Physics, Chemistry, Maths and Biology; held separately in different parts of the world each year.

Notes

External links 
1987 ICTP Prize Winner
GIKI Rector profile
Distinguish Guest
Abdullah Sadiq
Abdullah Sadiq
Abdullah Sadiq

Pakistani scientists
Pakistani scholars
Living people
Pakistani physicists
Pakistani nuclear physicists
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign alumni
University of Peshawar alumni
1940 births
Academic staff of Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology