[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Yijiangshan Islands

The Battle of Yijiangshan Islands () was a conflict between the Nationalist forces of the Republic of China  and the People's Liberation Army (PLA) of the People's Republic of China, over one of the last strongholds of the Kuomintang near mainland China on the Yijiangshan Islands. The conflict occurred from January 18 to January 20, 1955, during the First Taiwan Strait Crisis, and resulted in a PLA victory and the complete destruction of the ROC garrison.

Prelude

Geography
The Yijiangshan Islands consist of two islands, the Northern Yijiang () Island and the Southern Yijiang () Island, and the region is approximately 1.2 square kilometers (0.46 square miles) in area.  Due to its strategic location near the coast of Zhejiang, it had become a forward base for the Nationalist defense of Chinese coastal islands centered on Dachen Island, as well as a base for launching guerrilla attacks on mainland China.

Opposing forces
The Nationalist defense force consisted of the following units and totaled more than 1000:
Yijiangshan Regional Headquarters
The 2nd Assault Group
The 4th Assault Group
The 4th Assault Squadron
One artillery squadron
In addition, the Nationalist defenders could call up the air and naval support when needed.

The Communist attackers totaled more than 5,000, with the landing force totaling one regiment and one battalion from the following units:
The 178th regiment of the 60th Division of the 20th Army
The 180th regiment of the 60th Division of the 20th Army
137 naval vessels, (including more than 70 landing vessels, and more than 40 escort vessels). 
184 aircraft from a total of 22 groups, 7 artillery battalions, and 2 anti-aircraft artillery regiments assigned to support the landing force.
In addition, over 30,000 civilians and three dozen civilian ships were mobilized for logistic support.

Battle
When the fight began on January 18, 1955, the Nationalist air force and navy did not participate due to overwhelming Communist firepower. The battle started at 08:00 with People's Liberation Army (PLA) bombers from three groups and ground attack aircraft from 2 groups bombing and strafing the islands. At the same time, bombers from another group and ground attack aircraft from the second group began bombing and strafing the Dachen Islands as a diversion. At 09:00, 50 long range artillery pieces shelled the Yijiangshan Islands.

Around noon, 70+ naval vessels carrying the landing force sailed from Gaodao (), Queerao (), Toumenshan Island () in three formations in two waves, with more than 40 escort vessels. 2 hours later, the 10 specially converted naval vessels with rocket launchers bombarded Yijiangshan island in conjunction with bombers from 3 groups and 1 squadron, ground attack aircraft from 2 groups, before landing on 20 landing spots.  However, the defenders took advantage of their fortifications and severely disrupted the attackers’ formation after their successful landing.  As a result, most of the Communist casualties suffered during the battle were at this initial stage.

The Communists immediately called for fire support after they met with fierce enemy fire, and PLA aircraft responded by attacking enemy positions at extremely low altitude. With the first line of defence quickly overpowered by flamethrowers, bombs, and artillery, the PLA gained ground rapidly. Most of the PLA casualties (as many as 200 dead and 400 wounded) resulted from attacks from two machine-gun nests manned by 2 families. Air strikes and massive artillery bombardments eventually knocked out these two positions. As the demoralized defenders retreated into their tunnels, the attackers changed their tactics by fighting in small groups, and using recoilless rifles and flamethrowers to gradually burn the Nationalist soldiers to death, including the tunnel complex of the Nationalist 4th Assault Group.