[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# LGBT rights in Kenya

missioner of prisons, Isaiah Osugo, announced a plan for closed-circuit television surveillance in Kenyan prisons to curb sex between male inmates.

The chief justice of the Kenyan Supreme Court, Willy Munyoki Mutunga, said at a groundbreaking ceremony for FIDA Uganda in Kampala on 8 September 2011,

The other frontier of marginalization is the gay rights movement. Gay rights are human rights. Here I'm simply confining my statement to the context of human rights and social justice paradigm, and avoiding the controversy that exists in our constitutions and various legislation. As far as I know, human rights principles that we work on, do not allow us to implement human rights selectively. We need clarity on this issue within the human rights movement in East Africa, if we are to face the challenges that are spearheaded by powerful political and religious forces in our midst. I find the arguments made by some of our human rights activists, the so-called "moral arguments", simply rationalizations for using human rights principles opportunistically and selectively. We need to bring together the opposing viewpoints in the movement of this issue for final and conclusive debate.

When former U.S. President Barack Obama visited Kenya in July 2015, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta rebutted Obama's stance on equal rights for all, including sexual orientation, by stating that for Kenyans LGBT rights are a non-issue and not in line with Kenyan culture.

In April 2018, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta said that LGBT rights are "not acceptable" and "of no importance to the people of the Republic of Kenya." He also added that the LGBT rights issue in Kenya is not an "issue of human rights" but an "issue of [Kenyan] society and culture."

LGBT rights movement in Kenya

LGBT rights organisations in Kenya include the Gay and Lesbian Coalition of Kenya, Gay Kenya Trust, National Gay & Lesbian Human Rights Commission, and the East Africa Trans Health & Advocacy Network.

In March 2019, 3 out of 5 judges in the Court of Appeal ruled that the government could not use colonial-era laws criminalising gay sexual activity to block the National Gay Lesbian Human Rights Commission (NGLHRC) from being registered as a non-profit organization, and dismissed the appeal after the government's Non-Governmental Organisations Coordination Board rejecting its application for registration as a charity on the basis that it was for gay and lesbian people. The government appealed the judgment to the Supreme Court, which in a 3-2 decision dismissed the appeal.

The body of murdered LGBTQ activist and fashion business owner, Edwin Chiloba was found in Uasin Gishu on 3 January 2023.

Summary table

See also

Human rights in Kenya
Kenya Human Rights Commission
LGBT rights in Africa
Denis Nzioka

References

External links
UK government travel advice for Kenya: Local laws and customs
Rainbow Kenya

Human rights in Kenya
Law of Kenya
Rights
Kenya
Politics of Kenya