[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# WSEE-TV

rk
Steve Scully – now at C-SPAN
John Stehr – news anchor and reporter (1980); worked for several other stations as well as an anchor at CNBC and correspondent at CBS News, and worked at WTHR in Indianapolis from 1995 to 2018, before retiring.

Subchannels
The station's digital signal is multiplexed:

Out-of-market coverage
WSEE-TV is available on some cable systems in Canada that serve communities on Lake Erie. Atlantic Broadband, the cable provider that serves McKean County, Pennsylvania, and portions of Cattaraugus County, New York, announced that WSEE-TV would replace Buffalo's WIVB-TV. Though an agreement was eventually reached with WIVB-TV, WSEE-TV was kept on the Atlantic Broadband lineups. However, Time Warner Cable announced it would remove WSEE-TV (along with WICU-TV) from its cable lineups in Westfield and Dunkirk, New York in favor of CFTO-TV from Toronto and YNN Buffalo. This despite the fact that Westfield and Dunkirk are arguably within WSEE-TV's must-carry territory, although both are located in Chautauqua County (part of the Buffalo market).

WSEE is also available on cable and over-the-air in portions of Ashtabula County, Ohio, which is part of the Cleveland market despite much of the county being located geographically closer to either the Erie or Youngstown markets.

From November 1997 to November 2019, WSEE-TV was available via the Primetime 24 package, when it replaced Raleigh's WRAL-TV (now an NBC affiliate) due to that station's regular preemptions of CBS programming. The service provides American network television service to C band satellite and some cable viewers in Latin America, the Caribbean, and in rural parts of the United States where local signals are not available. This feed of WSEE-TV, which is carried on all three cable providers in Puerto Rico and is relayed via Mayaguez-based W22FA-D, varies from its local one where local commercials are replaced with ads directed towards the Caribbean. The station's local newscasts and some syndicated shows are sometimes replaced with infomercials, although there is a taped Caribbean weather forecast by WSEE-TV's weather staff nightly at 11, available through a WSEE-TV-managed website specific to Caribbean weather and is branded as "One Caribbean Weather". On November 19, 2019, Lilly completed the purchase of WCVI-TV in the U.S. Virgin Islands from Family Broadcasting Corporation (which already carried a modified feed of sister ABC affiliate WENY-TV from Elmira, New York on their second digital subchannel under a lease agreement), adding the modified WSEE feed to that station's main feed the next day to allow it over-the-air coverage in the region. Once the purchase was completed, WCVI-TV and W32DZ-D took the place of WSEE-TV in the package's lineup.

See also
Channel 21 digital TV stations in the United States
Channel 35 virtual TV stations in the United States

References

External links

CW Erie website
CBS Puerto Rico

1954 establishments in Pennsylvania
CBS network affiliates
Heroes & Icons affiliates
Dabl affiliates
Television channels and stations established in 1954
SEE-TV