[Source: PubMed]

34. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Dec 10;747:141355. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141355.  Epub 2020 Jul 29.

Emerging climate change-related public health challenges in Africa: A case study 
of the heat-health vulnerability of informal settlement residents in Dar es 
Salaam, Tanzania.

Pasquini L(1), van Aardenne L(2), Godsmark CN(3), Lee J(4), Jack C(5).

Author information:
(1)Climate System Analysis Group, University of Cape Town, Private Bag X3, 
Rondebosch 7701, South Africa; African Climate and Development Initiative, 
University of Cape Town, Private Bag X3, Rondebosch 7701, South Africa. 
Electronic address: lorena.pasquini@gmail.com.
(2)Climate System Analysis Group, University of Cape Town, Private Bag X3, 
Rondebosch 7701, South Africa. Electronic address: lisa@csag.uct.ac.za.
(3)School of Public Health, University College Cork, Western Gateway Building, 
Western Road, Cork T12 XF62, Ireland; Environmental Research Institute, 
University College Cork, Lee Road, Cork T23 XE10, Ireland. Electronic address: 
christie.godsmark@ucc.ie.
(4)Climate System Analysis Group, University of Cape Town, Private Bag X3, 
Rondebosch 7701, South Africa. Electronic address: jessica@csag.uct.ac.za.
(5)Climate System Analysis Group, University of Cape Town, Private Bag X3, 
Rondebosch 7701, South Africa. Electronic address: cjack@csag.uct.ac.za.

Heat has the potential to become one of the most significant public health 
impacts of climate change in the coming decades. Increases in temperature have 
been linked to both increasing mortality and morbidity. Cities have been 
recognized as areas of particular vulnerability to heat's impacts on health, and 
marginalized groups, such as the poor, appear to have higher heat-related 
morbidity and mortality. Little research has examined the heat vulnerability of 
urban informal settlements residents in Africa, even though surface temperatures 
across Africa are projected to increase at a rate faster than the global 
average. This paper addresses this knowledge gap through a mixed-methods 
analysis of the heat-health vulnerability of informal settlement residents in 
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The heat exposure, sensitivity and adaptive capacity of 
informal settlement residents were assessed through a combination of climate 
analyses, semi-structured interviews with local government actors and informal 
settlement residents, unstructured interviews with health sector respondents, a 
health impacts literature review, and a stakeholder engagement workshop. The 
results suggest that increasing temperatures due to climate change will likely 
be a significant risk to human health in Dar es Salaam, even though the city 
does not reach extreme temperature conditions, because informal settlement 
residents have high exposure, high sensitivity and low adaptive capacity to 
heat, and because the heat-health relationship is currently an under-prioritized 
policy issue. While numerous urban planning approaches can play a key role in 
increasing the resilience of citizens to heat, Dar es Salaam's past and current 
growth and development patterns greatly complicate the implementation and 
enforcement of such approaches. For African cities, the findings highlight an 
urgent need for more research on the vulnerability and resilience of residents 
to heat-health impacts, because many African cities are likely to present 
similar characteristics to those in Dar es Salaam that increase resident's 
vulnerability.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141355
PMID: 32777515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.