[Source: PubMed]

25. Soc Sci Med. 2025 Oct;383:118459. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2025.118459. Epub 
2025 Jul 26.

Migration-induced subjective social mobility and its associations with 
self-rated mental and general health: A systematic review and narrative 
synthesis.

Platz Pereira M(1), Gottlieb N(2), Hintermeier M(3), Nutsch N(2), Bozorgmehr 
K(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Muenster, Germany; Section Health Equity 
Studies & Migration, Department of General Practice and Health Services 
Research, Heidelberg University, Germany.
(2)Department of Population Medicine and Health Services Research, School of 
Public Health, Bielefeld University, Germany.
(3)Section Health Equity Studies & Migration, Department of General Practice and 
Health Services Research, Heidelberg University, Germany; Department of 
Population Medicine and Health Services Research, School of Public Health, 
Bielefeld University, Germany.
(4)Section Health Equity Studies & Migration, Department of General Practice and 
Health Services Research, Heidelberg University, Germany; Department of 
Population Medicine and Health Services Research, School of Public Health, 
Bielefeld University, Germany. Electronic address: 
kayvan.bozorgmehr@uni-bielefeld.de.

Social mobility affects health, but comprehensive evidence on its health effects 
in migration contexts is lacking. This systematic review summarizes the global 
empirical quantitative evidence on the impact of migration-induced subjective 
social mobility on self-rated health outcomes among first-generation migrants, 
including internally displaced people, international and internal migrants. A 
systematic search was performed in three scientific databases, using search 
terms related to migrants, social status/mobility and health outcomes. Studies 
were included if migrant populations, quantitative measures of health outcomes 
and subjective social mobility were reported. In total, 13 records met all 
criteria, representing five different country contexts and covering 
international migrants, asylum seekers, refugees, and rural-to-urban migrants. 
Applying cross-sectional study designs, the main outcomes assessed were general 
health, subjective wellbeing/life satisfaction and depression. The overall 
evidence shows that downward subjective social mobility consistently correlates 
with negative mental health effects, namely depression, while upward social 
mobility is associated with better mental health outcomes. Similar tendencies 
were found for general health and life satisfaction. The results indicate that 
downward subjective social mobility is associated with poorer general health, 
lower life satisfaction and higher risk of depression across various contexts. 
Correspondingly, upward subjective social mobility and social mobility belief is 
associated with better general health, higher life satisfaction and lower risk 
of depression. These findings highlight the need for policies that support 
post-migration socioeconomic integration to prevent or mitigate the experience 
of downward mobility and its adverse health effects. Future research is needed 
to better understand pathways and interactions between policies, contexts, and 
individual trajectories influencing migration-induced social mobility.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2025.118459
PMID: 40780122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None declared.