[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1977 in the United Kingdom

n people are arrested during clashes between pickets and police at the Grunwick film processing laboratory.
26 June – 16-year-old shop assistant Jayne McDonald, is found battered and stabbed to death in Chapeltown, Leeds; police believe she is the fifth person to be murdered by the Yorkshire Ripper.

July
1 July – English tennis player Virginia Wade wins the women's singles title at Wimbledon.
4 July – Manchester United F.C. manager Tommy Docherty is sensationally dismissed by the club's directors due to his affair with the wife of the club's physiotherapist.
7 July 
 The first episode of the BBC documentary series Brass Tacks is aired, featuring a debate about whether Myra Hindley should be considered for parole from the life sentence she received for her role in the Moors Murders in 1966. 
 The 10th James Bond film – The Spy Who Loved Me – premieres in London. It is the third of seven films to star Roger Moore as James Bond, with Moore later calling the film his personal favourite of his tenure in the franchise.
10 July – Bradford woman Maureen Long, 42, is injured in an attack believed to have been committed by the Yorkshire Ripper in the West Yorkshire city.
11 July
 Gay News found guilty of blasphemous libel in a case (Whitehouse v. Lemon) brought on behalf of Mary Whitehouse's National Viewers and Listeners Association. It is the first such prosecution since 1921 and will be the last before the offence is abolished in 2008.
 Don Revie announces his resignation after three years as manager of the England national football team.
12 July – Within 24 hours of resigning as manager of the England national football team, Don Revie accepts an offer to become the highest-paid football manager in the world when he is appointed manager of the United Arab Emirates national football team on a four-year contract worth £340,000.
14 July – Manchester United appoint Dave Sexton, manager of Queen's Park Rangers and previously Chelsea, as their new manager.
23 July – Chrysler Europe launch the Sunbeam, a three-door rear-wheel drive small hatchback similar in concept to the Ford Fiesta and Vauxhall Chevette.
29 July
Finance Act abolishes the collection of tithes.
Criminal Law Act 1977 in England and Wales creates the statutory crime of conspiracy among other changes.

August
August – Government introduces voluntary Stage III one-year pay restraint.
10 August
 The Queen visits Northern Ireland as part of her Jubilee celebrations under tight security.
 Kenny Dalglish, 26-year-old Scotland striker, becomes Britain's most expensive footballer in a £440,000 transfer from Celtic to Liverpool.
11 August – Cricketer Geoff Boycott scores the 100th century of his career for England against Australia at Headingley, Leeds.
 12 August–19 September – Union-Castle Line RMS Windsor Castle (1959) makes the line's last passenger mail voyage out of Southampton for Cape Town, the last major British ship to operate in the regular ocean liner trade.
13 August – Battle of Lewisham: an attempt by the far-right National Front to march from New Cross to Lewisham in southeast London leads to counter-demonstrations and violent clashes.
15 August – Rioting breaks out in Birmingham during demonstrations against the National Front.
17 August – Ron Greenwood, general manager of West Ham United, who guided the East London club to FA Cup and European Cup Winners' Cup glory as their team manager during the 1960s, accepts an offer from the Football Association to manage the England team on a temporary basis until December.
23 August – A new, smaller, £1 note is introduced.
26 August – First all-Luton-built Vauxhall Cavalier Mk1 family cars roll off the production line at Vauxhall Motors Luton factory.