[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Texas Rangers (film)

tioned a story idea called Ranger from Scott Busby and Martin Copland based on the book A Texas Ranger by N. A. Jennings. Busby and Copland were hired to do the adaptation. A year later John Milius was on the project. He wrote several drafts and was going to direct for Columbia, then Savoy Pictures.

In 1992 Milius said he hoped to make the film with a young cast for $15–17 million, which is "very reasonable today", he said:
It's very easy to make Westerns. Most of the people making decisions today are idiots who've probably never seen one, city-born people who feel that the here and now is most important. They don't like historical films of any kind, especially Westerns. Sci-fi is acceptable but history is not hip. Part of being modern is that anything from the past is dead. We live in an historical age. An enormous amount of people were interested in TV's The Civil War and Lonesome Dove--which Hollywood writes off as the great unwashed between the coasts. We're the only culture in history that builds a shrine and prostrates before the 14-year-old.
Milius added: "The best Westerns were love poems to this country, made by people in love with the country physically. John Ford photographed the country the way you photograph a woman. He photographed the open spaces, gray clouds, light, red earth, trees, really sensuously. The country was the repository of endless promise. Any good Western is about promise".

Milius says he "got pretty close to making the film but they wouldn’t approve Tommy Lee Jones as the star, so I left it to go do Vikings [a film that ultimately was not made]. Another guy worked on it, the script was rewritten, but they were never able to get it made. They couldn’t attract the cast they wanted. So now these other characters [Bob and Harvey Weinstein] bought it".

The film did not begin production until 1999. It was made by Miramax, who cast some young teen idols in the lead, including James Van Der Beek from Varsity Blues. Milius was replaced as director, and screenwriter Ehren Kruger was hired to do a rewrite on Milius's script.

Milius commented that "it was one of my best scripts, and I wasn't willing to sit there and proceed to dismantle it. Youth today have a sense of rightful entitlement. Their idea of great adventure is diving off bridges with bungee cords. They don't go and do something real-they're all interested in looking good and getting that BMW".

Milius said the Weinsteins "were really arrogant. They called me up and acted as if I should feel privileged to come back and ruin my own work. I told that asshole Bob Weinstein he was lucky to have it the way it was".

While filmed in 1999, the film was not released until 2001. Neither Milius nor Kruger were credited on the final film.

The film is loosely based on the activities of Leander H. McNelly and the Special Force of the Texas Rangers, but it takes considerable liberties with the historical record (McNelly is shown dying of tuberculosis shortly after the climax of the action, when in real life he had retired from the Rangers the year before; John King Fisher was not actually killed by the Rangers, but came to an agreement with them).

Release

Box office 
Texas Rangers was a box office bomb, earning only $763,740 on a budget of $38 million.

Reception 
Texas Rangers was panned by critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 2%, based on reviews from 51 critics. The website's consensus reads: "As far as westerns go, Texas Rangers is strictly mediocre stuff." On Metacritic, the film has a score of 29 out of 100, based on 10 reviews, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews".

John Milius claimed that Miramax "mutilated" his script: "They don't have any sense of responsibility. They'd make a film about anything if they thought it would make some money for them. I think they should give Harvey Weinstein [president of Miramax] to the Taliban. I'd like to see him on the other side. I'd like to hunt him down in a cave".

References

External links 
 
 
 Review of film at Los Angeles Times

2001 films
2001 Western (genre) films
American Civil War films
2000s English-language films
Films about the Texas Ranger Division
Films directed by Steve Miner
American adventure drama films
Films set in Texas
Films scored by Trevor Rabin
Miramax films
Dimension Films films
2000s American films