[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# List of Wild Cards characters

s as the Great Ape). He has also developed investigative skills and learned the rudiments of computer hacking. Strauss is also a millionaire, and has access to all the resources that wealth can provide.

Peregrine
Peregrine was created by Gail Gerstner-Miller and first appeared in Wild Cards (1987).

Peregrine might technically be considered a Joker, since the Wild Card virus left her with a visible "deformity", a pair of giant wings. However, the majestic nature of her wings, combined with her physical beauty and charisma, made her a darling of the Ace set. Indeed, Peregrine is one of the most famous Wild Cards, and famous women, in the world. Although Peregrine occasionally engaged in super-heroics, often using a set of steel claws to enhance her combat effectiveness, she was primarily known for her activities as a celebrity. She is the host of the popular and long running talk show "Peregrines Perch" as well as being an important television personality and sex symbol who appeared in Playboy magazine. As a famous media figure she was a fixture of New York society, although she was not above "slumming", such as with her brief relationship with the Wild Card pimp Fortunato, which resulted an unplanned pregnancy.

In 1986, Peregrine was one of a number of Americans chosen to take part in a World Health Organization fact-finding tour. While in Japan, Peregrine met Fortunato and convinced him to help Hiram Worcester, who had gotten into trouble with the Yakuza. Although Fortunato learned of her pregnancy and that he was the father, he chose not to remain with her and would instead enter a monastery. Peregrine would give birth to a son and named him John Fortune. During a stopover in Egypt, Peregrine was given a disturbing prophecy about her son's future. This prophecy made Peregrine a very protective mother. While she lived her life in the public eye, and indeed became even more of a celebrity, she jealously guarded her son's privacy and safety, routinely employing Popinjay and his detective agency to guard him. In 2003, John Fortune's Wild Card "turned" and John became the object of contest between two groups of religious fanatics. What at first appeared to be an Ace turned out to be a deadly "black queen" which would have resulted in John's death if not for the intervention of Fortunato. Apparently left powerless, John returned to an ordinary life, working as a production assistant on a new Wild Card–themed show his mother was producing. In 2008, his role in prophecy was fulfilled as he became the host for the Egyptian Ace Sekhmet and worked with other aces to defend Egypt's Jokers from genocide.

Popinjay
Jay "Popinjay" Ackroyd is an Ace who can teleport people and things anywhere he can clearly visualize. He cannot use this power on himself, and he has to be able to point his index fingers at his target (holding his hand like a pistol).

Jay Ackroyd is a private investigator, running the Ackroyd and Creighton Detective Agency with his junior partner, Mr. Nobody. Known as 'Popinjay' amongst his fellow Wild Carders, his power, especially combined with his quick wits, makes him a deceptively dangerous opponent.

In the early 1990s, Ackroyd accompanied Dr. Tachyon to his homeworld of Takis. While he was on Takis, he was captured by Blaise Andrieux, who chopped off his fingers to prevent him from using his powers. After Blaise's defeat, they were grown back by Takisian technology. Since then, Ackroyd has married a Takisian chef and returned to earth and to his increasingly high-profile detective/bodyguard agency, which now employs Aces such as Peter Pann.

Jay's favorite saying is: "Might as well, I can't dance".

Puppetman
Puppetman, the alias of Gregg Hartmann, a U.S. Senator (D-NY) and candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, first appeared in the story "Strings" by Stephen Leigh in the first book in the series, and plays an important role in events throughout the series. Hartmann shows the world the face of a crusading, man-of-the-people politician, who fights for the rights of the downtrodden, particularly Jokers, but who is secretly an Ace possessed of mind-control powers. Hartmann refers to these powers, and the desire he gets to use them, as "Puppetman" and sees them as almost a separate entity.

Hartmann himself is a victim of the Wild Card, an Ace with the ability to sense and manipulate the emotions of others. He first discovered this power when he was eleven years old; he had a crush on a teenage girl named Andrea Whitman, and wanted to find a way to hurt her for ignoring him. He took his first puppet that day, Roger Pellman, a mentally deficient fourteen-year-old, and began stoking Pellman's anger, lust, and rage until Pellman raped and murdered Andrea, with Gregg feeling everything his puppet felt.