[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tariq al-Sawah

published formerly secret assessments drafted by Joint Task Force Guantanamo analysts.
Joint Task Force Guantanamo drafted a fourteen-page assessment of al-Sawah, dated September 30, 2008.
The memo was signed by camp commandant David M. Thomas Jr. and  recommended his "Transfer Out of DOD Control."

Joint Review Task Force
When he assumed office in January 2009 President Barack Obama made a number of promises about the future of Guantanamo.
He promised the use of torture would cease at the camp. He promised to institute a new review system. That new review system was composed of officials from six departments, where the OARDEC reviews were conducted entirely by the Department of Defense. When it reported back, a year later, the Joint Review Task Force classified some individuals as too dangerous to be transferred from Guantanamo, even though there was no evidence to justify laying charges against them. On April 9, 2013, that document was made public after a Freedom of Information Act request.
Tariq Mahmud Ahmad Muhammad al-Sawah was one of the 71 individuals deemed too innocent to charge, but too dangerous to release.
Although Obama promised that those deemed too innocent to charge, but too dangerous to release would start to receive reviews from a Periodic Review Board less than a quarter of men have received a review. Al-Sawah was approved for transfer on February 12, 2015.

Faces charges before a Guantanamo military commission
On December 16, 2008 Carol Rosenberg, writing in the Miami Herald, reported that the Guantanamo military commission prosecutors announced charges had been laid against Tariq al-Sawah.

These charges were later dismissed on March 1, 2012.

Al-Sawah was represented by Major Sean Gleason, an active-duty Judge Advocate.

Health issues

Rosenberg noted that the documents the DoD had published showed wild fluctuations in his body weight.

In March 2013 the Egypt Independent reported that Tariq's lawyers had arranged for Dr. Sondra Crosby, an associate professor of medicine at the Boston University School of Medicine and Public Health, to examine him on two occasions.
A letter from Crosby to camp authorities describes his health as at serious risk, due to his morbid obesity.  Nevertheless, camp authorities decline to offer him any special treatment, or even to release his medical records.

Release and resettlement
Al-Sawah was released in January 2016 after Bosnia and Herzegovina had expressed willingness to accept him.

References

External links
For two detainees who told what they knew, Guantanamo becomes a gilded cage The Washington Post, March 24, 2010
 Who Are the Remaining Prisoners in Guantánamo? Part Two: Captured in Afghanistan (2001) Andy Worthington, September 17, 2010

1957 births
Detainees of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp
Bosnia and Herzegovina extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Living people
Bagram Theater Internment Facility detainees
People indicted for war crimes