[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kalaureia

pears to have continued; and during the hegemony of the Athenian empire before the Thirty Years' Peace (455 BCE) Troezen was an ally of Athens, and was apparently garrisoned by Athenian troops; but by this peace the Athenians were compelled to relinquish Troezen. (19.29)

Archaeological excavations 

The Sanctuary was excavated by Swedish archaeologists in 1894. These early excavations are treated in Ingrid Berg's PhD thesis (Stockholm University), published in 2016. Excavations were resumed in 1997, conducted by the Swedish Institute in Athens in collaboration with the Greek National Heritage Board. The results of these new excavations are published in the Institute's journal Opuscula Atheniensia (-2007) and (with open access) in Opuscula (2008-). The excavations are also presented at the Institute's webpage. In 2007-2012 the extensive research program "The City, the God, and the Sea" was financed by Riksbankens Jubileumsfond, and a final report of the results, written in Swedish, is available with open access at rj.se.

Archaeological finds during modern excavations 
During the Late Archaic period a number of buildings were erected, including the temple, Stoa D and the Propylon (Building E). Little is known about the temple constructed during this period as it was almost completely robbed out by the time of the early Swedish excavations and when modern work started only foundation trenches and roof tiles remained. The temple was a peripteral building with 6×12 columns, constructed mainly out of poros limestone and was surrounded by a low wall with the main entrance on the east side and a smaller entrance in the south. Stoa D, a simple colonnaded hall, was constructed during the same period and is currently poorly preserved. Building E, usually interpreted as the sanctuary’s propylon, is somewhat better preserved. It has two identifiable rooms in addition to the entrance way, the rooms may have functioned as a bouleuterion or the seat of the amphictyony.

Building activity continued also during the Classical period. Stoa A and Stoa B were constructed along the north side of the sanctuary. Only the foundation of the back wall of Stoa B is preserved. More is known of Stoa A which originally was a Doric building with polygonal walls covered in red plaster and with an inner Ionic colonnade. The building was destroyed already in antiquity, probably around 100 BC. Later, in Roman times, it housed several small sheds with commercial activity, suggesting that the area had an economic function at this time.

The next major phase of building activity also took place during the late 4th century BC. Structures were erected both inside and outside of the sanctuary. Stoa D was expanded by the large trapezoidal building D to the south. Building D was composed of three rectangular rooms that opened into the Stoa. Stoa C (the fourth and final stoa) was erected at the same time to the north-east of Building D. Facing the inner open area of the sanctuary it had an outer Doric and inner Ionic colonnade. An inscription suggests that the building functioned as an archive or was used for other administrative purposes.

Several buildings have also been revealed outside of the sanctuary itself.  Building E was interpreted as a bouleuterion due to the many statue bases found in front of it. The large Stoa F was located just to the west of Building E. On the other side of the modern road a rectangular structure (Building G) was located. This was formed by a courtyard which was entered from the east and surrounded by several rooms. Among the finds was a statuette of Asklepios. There is also evidence for private architecture. Immediately to the south of Building D lies the Building I; a large structure which remained in use from the Late Classical period to Roman times. The proximity to the sanctuary suggests that the temenos of Poseidon was surrounded by the city at this time and not isolated from the urban landscape.

The most recent work on the site have focused on Area L to the south of the sanctuary and Building I, across the modern road. The identification of several large pithoi suggests that the building filled a communal function.

See also 

 Swedish Institute at Athens

Sources 

 Swedish Institute at Athens - Kalaureia (2015): https://www.sia.gr/en/articles.php?tid=16&page=1
 Swedish Institute at Athens - The 2016 excavation campaign in Ancient Kalaureia: https://www.sia.gr/en/articles.php?tid=80&page=1
 Swedish Institute at Athens - Kalaureia, Poros (1894 and 1997– ongoing) (2020): https://www.sia.gr/en/articles.php?tid=329&page=1
 Swedish Institute at Athens - The Kalaureia Excavation Project 2021 (2021): https://www.sia.gr/en/articles.php?tid=546&page=1

Notes

External links

Kalaureia Archaeological Excavations