[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Commonwealth Secondary School

Commonwealth Secondary School (abbreviation: CWSS) is a government, autonomous and coeducational secondary school in Jurong East, Singapore. Founded in 1964, Commonwealth Secondary School offers secondary school education which leads to the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Ordinary Level or Singapore-Cambridge GCE Normal Level examination.

Tanglin Secondary School 

Commonwealth Secondary School began as Tanglin Integrated Vocational Secondary School in 1964 and became an academic institution named Tanglin Secondary in 1969.

In 1972, the name was changed again to Commonwealth Secondary School since it was situated near Commonwealth Drive. The school relocated to Jurong East in 1989 and functioned as a neighbourhood school in the Hong Kah constituency for seven years before moving to Jurong East Street 24 of the Yuhua Constituency at the end of 1995. The school moved to its new campus on West Coast Road in November 2006. The official opening ceremony of the new campus was held on 11 July 2008.

Commonwealth Secondary has been an autonomous school since 1995, a status given to the school because of its academic success and achievement in co-curricular programmes. Commonwealth Secondary is also a Higher Chinese Centre since 1995, catering to students who have the passion to pursue Higher Chinese Language (HCL) in the West District. On the academic front, in addition to being a Higher Chinese Centre, Commonwealth has also been offering Higher Malay and Higher Tamil to its pupils since 2006. From 2006, a humanities subject, Economics, was offered to Secondary 3 students. Dance and Drama has been Commonwealth's niche areas since 2000. The Walk in Art Gallery has been open since the school itself opened in 1993. In 2004, Commonwealth received its 1st Ministry of Education's Sustained Achievement Award for both uniformed groups and the performing arts.

The school has been designated as a Centre of Excellence for Environmental Education from 2008 onwards.

Present 

In 2007, Commonwealth Secondary School received the Singapore Quality Class status. In March of the same year, Pandan Reservoir and Sungei Pandan were adopted by the school. In 2008, Commonwealth Secondary School was designated as a Centre of Excellence for Environmental Education.

Commonwealth Secondary School was accorded the School Distinction Award by the Ministry of Education in 2010 in recognition for its all round excellence in education.

Principal

Identity and culture

School crest 

This is the school's statement on the CWSS crest:
Behold our school crest
With our motto, ever with the best
See the flame burning with zest
It proudly stands of CWSS.
Blue for infinite resourcefulness
Gold for faith and fruitfulness
Ever-glowing is our flame
Ever-growing is our name

Motto 
Ever With The Best

Academic information 
Being a government secondary school, Commonwealth Secondary School offers three academic streams, namely the four-year Express course, as well as the Normal Course, comprising Normal (Academic) and Normal (Technical) academic tracks.

O Level Express Course 
The Express Course is a nationwide four-year programme that leads up to the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Ordinary Level examination. Commonwealth Secondary School had consistently stellar performances in the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Ordinary Level examinations. In 2007, 99.5% of the graduating students are eligible for Junior College, and the school was one of the few with students scoring 7A1s and above.

Academic subjects 
The examinable academic subjects for Singapore-Cambridge GCE Ordinary Level offered by the school for upper secondary level (via. streaming in secondary 2 level), as of 2017, are listed below.

Notes:
 Subjects indicated with ' * ' are mandatory subjects.
 All students in Singapore are required to undertake a Mother Tongue Language as an examinable subject, as indicated by ' ^ '.
 "SPA" in Pure Science subjects refers to the incorporation of School-based Science Practical Assessment, which 20% of the subject result in the national examination are determined by school-based practical examinations, supervised by the Singapore Examinations and Assessment Board. The SPA Assessment has been replaced by one Practical Assessment in the 2018 O Levels.

Normal Course 
The Normal Course is a nationwide 4-year programme leading to the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Normal Level examination, which runs either the Normal (Academic) curriculum or Normal (Technical) curriculum, abbreviated as N(A) and N(T) respectively.