[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Jejomar Binay

wever, his running mate was later revealed to be Senator Gringo Honasan, who was also the vice president of the United Nationalist Alliance.

Platform
Binay disclosed his platform for his 2016 presidential bid during his speech in the Integrated Bar of the Philippines in Cebu City on March 20, 2015.

He aimed to improve the situation in state colleges and universities, public health hospitals and clinics, police stations, and mass housing. He also promised an increase in both salaries and benefits of public school teachers and health workers, members of the police force, and other public servants. As part of his plans, he included a redesigning and re-engineering of the transportation system of the country, as well as prioritizing the building of more infrastructure and the creation of more jobs. He proposed to change the constitution to boost the economy, and speed up the country's development.

In early July of the same year, Binay expressed UNA's (his party list) platform for 2016 in a speech:Ang sigaw ng UNA at ng taumbayan sawa na tayo sa kahirapan, sawa na tayo sa kawalan ng hanapbuhay, sawa na tayo sa kriminalidad at ilegal na droga. Sawa na tayo sa kakulangan ng basic services... hirap na tayo sa manhid at palpak na pamahalaan,What UNA and the citizens are expressing is that we're tired of poverty, we're tired of unemployment, we're tired of criminals and illegal drugs. We're tired of the lack of basic services...we're struggling under a numb and failed government,

Post-vice presidency (2016–present) 

Binay lost the 2016 presidential election to Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte. He called Duterte three days after the election to personally congratulate him. Later, in 2017, Binay became the founding dean of the University of Makati College of Law. In 2019, Binay unsuccessfully ran in the congressional election in Makati's 1st district against former acting mayor Romulo Peña Jr.

Binay had also voiced out in political issues during the Duterte administration. He supported ABS-CBN amidst its franchise renewal controversy. He also stands against the controversial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020. He has criticized the Duterte administration for failing to manage the COVID-19 pandemic situation in the Philippines. He also said that lawyers are more scared under Duterte than they were under former President Ferdinand Marcos.

On July 24, 2021, Senate President Vicente Sotto III said that Binay will be running for a senatorial seat in 2022. Binay was named to the senatorial slate of Sotto's running mate for president, Senator Panfilo Lacson, as well as to the MP3 Alliance and TRoPa of presidential aspirants Manny Pacquiao and Leni Robredo, respectively, as guest candidate. His Senate bid was also endorsed by vice presidential aspirant Sara Duterte, former President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, the Makabayan bloc, Iglesia ni Cristo, and the Council of Bishops of the United Church of Christ in the Philippines. However, he lost in his bid, placing 13th out of the 12 seats up for election with more than 13 million votes.

Personal life
Binay is married to Dr. Elenita Sombilo Binay, who also served as Mayor of Makati from 1998 to 2001. They have five children:
 Maria Lourdes Nancy (Nancy, born May 12, 1973), married to Jose Benjamin Angeles, with four children
 Mar-Len Abigail (Abby, born December 12, 1975), married to Luis Jose Angel Campos Jr., with one child (Martina)
 Jejomar Erwin Jr. (Junjun, born July 12, 1977), a widower of Kennely Ann Lacia, with four children (Jejomarie Alexi, Maria Isabel, Jejomar III, and Maria Kennely)
 Marita Angeline (Anne, born May 12, 1979), married to Don Alcantara
 Joanna Marie Blanca (born November 22, 1988)
In addition to his five children, Binay is also the grandfather to thirteen grandchildren.

Honors and awards

Recognition 
 Outstanding Award, Metro Manila Development Authority (MMDA), 1992
 Award on the Luzon Campaign Medal, 1992
 Special Presidential Award for Service, 2002
 Leadership Award, Presidential Citation, 2002
 Most Outstanding City Mayor of Makati and Consumers Advocate Award, 2003
 University of the Philippines Oblation Run Award Best in Sports Wear, 2004
 Centennial Medal of Honor, 2005
 Outstanding Public Official and Great Achiever, 2005
 World Mayor Award granted by London-based City Mayors, 2006
Bronze Wolf, the only distinction of the World Organization of the Scout Movement, awarded by the World Scout Committee for exceptional services to world Scouting, 2018

Honorary degree 

 Doctor of Public Administration, Polytechnic University of the Philippines, 1992

Notes

References

External links