[Source: PubMed]

59. Lancet Glob Health. 2023 Aug;11(8):e1301-e1307. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(23)00246-2.

The values and risks of an Intergovernmental Panel for One Health to strengthen 
pandemic prevention, preparedness, and response.

Hobeika A(1), Stauffer MHT(2), Dub T(3), van Bortel W(4), Beniston M(5), Bukachi 
S(6), Burci GL(7), Crump L(8), Markotter W(9), Sepe LP(10), Placella E(11), 
Roche B(12), Thiongane O(13), Wang Z(14), Guérin F(15), van Kleef E(16).

Author information:
(1)UMR MoISA, CIRAD, Montpellier, France; MoISA, University of Montpellier, 
Montpellier, France; CIHEAM-IAMM, INRAE, Institut Agro, Montpellier, France.
(2)Geneva Science-Policy Interface, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland; 
Simon Institute for Longterm Governance, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Health Security, Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, 
Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, 
Belgium.
(5)Institute for Environmental Sciences, University of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(6)Institute of Anthropology, Gender and African Studies, University of Nairobi, 
Nairobi, Kenya.
(7)Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(8)Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute, Allschwil, Switzerland; Human and 
Animal Health Unit, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(9)Centre for Viral Zoonoses, Department of Medical Virology, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa.
(10)Department of Biological Safety, German Federal Institute for Risk 
Assessment (BfR), Berlin, Germany.
(11)Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, Bern, Switzerland.
(12)Research Institute for Development, PREZODE Initiative, Montpellier, France.
(13)BIOS/UMR ASTRE, CIRAD, Montpellier, France.
(14)Empa-Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology, 
Technology and Society Laboratory, St Gallen, Switzerland.
(15)Geneva Science-Policy Interface, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(16)Department of Public Health, Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, 
Belgium; Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, Utrecht University, 
Utrecht, Netherlands. Electronic address: esther.van.kleef@gmail.com.

The COVID-19 pandemic has shown the need for better global governance of 
pandemic prevention, preparedness, and response (PPR) and has emphasised the 
importance of organised knowledge production and uptake. In this Health Policy, 
we assess the potential values and risks of establishing an Intergovernmental 
Panel for One Health (IPOH). Similar to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change, an IPOH would facilitate knowledge uptake in policy making via a 
multisectoral approach, and hence support the addressing of infectious disease 
emergence and re-emergence at the human-animal-environment interface. The 
potential benefits to pandemic PPR include a clear, unified, and authoritative 
voice from the scientific community, support to help donors and institutions to 
prioritise their investments, evidence-based policies for implementation, and 
guidance on defragmenting the global health system. Potential risks include a 
scope not encompassing all pandemic origins, unclear efficacy in fostering 
knowledge uptake by policy makers, potentially inadequate speed in facilitating 
response efforts, and coordination challenges among an already dense set of 
stakeholders. We recommend weighing these factors when designing institutional 
reforms for a more effective global health system.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(23)00246-2
PMID: 37474236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.