[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rasmus Lindgren

Rasmus Lindgren (born 29 November 1984) is a Swedish former professional footballer who played as a defender and midfielder. He started off his footballing career at Landskrona BoIS, but spent most of his career in the Netherlands, representing AFC Ajax and FC Groningen, and also had a short stint in Austria with Red Bull Salzburg. He retired at BK Häcken in the Swedish Allsvenskan in 2021. A full international between 2008 and 2009, he won two caps for the Sweden national team.

Club career

Landskrona
Lindgren was born in Landskrona and started his footballing career at Landskrona BoIS' youth academy, alongside future professional footballers such as Pontus Farnerud, Alexander Farnerud, Jonas Olsson, and Johan Andersson. He progressed through the club's youth system and contributed the achievements at Landskrona. Lindgren sat on the bench in an Allsvenskan game against Örebro SK in 2003 as an unused substitute, but never made his senior debut for the team.

Ajax
On 6 January 2003, Eredivisie side AFC Ajax was impressed with his performance and offered him a professional contract following a trial. It was announced on 17 January 2003 that he signed a one–year contract with the club.

After joining Ajax, Lindgren was assigned to the club's second team for the next two years. A year later on 24 March 2004, he signed a one–year contract extension with the club. Ahead of the 2004–05 season, Lindgren was promoted to the club's first team squad, having called up to Ajax's training squad. Following this, Lindgren returned to the Ajax's second team. However, lack of first team opportunities at the club led him to consider his future at Ajax. Shortly after, he was called up to the club's first team squad. Lindgren made his debut for Ajax, in the 1–2 away win in the Eredivisie against NAC Breda on 13 February 2005. After the match, Lindgren says he is happy to make his debut and expected to make his way into the first team. Three days later, on 16 February 2005, Lindgren made his European debut, coming on as a 78th-minute substitute, in a 1–0 win against Auxerre in the first leg of the UEFA Cup Round of 32. In the return leg, however, the club lost 3–1 on aggregate, eliminating the club from the tournament. Following this, he was offered a new contract by Ajax, which believed to be a three–year contract. However, Lindgren failed to secure a place in the starting line-up, as he played four matches at the end of the 2004–05 season.

FC Groningen

On 9 August 2005 it was announced that Lindgren would join FC Groningen for a 1-year loan period.

He made his debut for the club, coming on as a 33rd-minute substitute for the injured Erik Nevland and played for the rest of the game, in a 1–0 win against RBC Roosendaal in the opening game of the season. In a follow–up match, Lindgren scored his first goal for FC Groningen, in a 2–1 loss against RKC Waalwijk. His second goal for the club came on 29 January 2006, in a 3–2 win against NAC Breda. For his performance, he was named Man of the Man by the supporters on the club's website. On 1 March 2006 it was announced that Lindgren would sign a new deal, making him a FC Groningen player for four years, with the transfer fee reportedly to have cost €300,000. His third goal for the club came on 12 April 2006, in a 2–1 win against FC Utrecht. He then played in both legs of the league's play–offs spot for the UEFA Champions League for FC Groningen by beating AZ Alkmaar 4–3 on aggregate. However, Lindgren, once again, played in both legs of the league's play–offs spot for the UEFA Champions League against his former club, Ajax, as the club lost 3–2, resulting in FC Groningen failed to qualify for the UEFA Champions League. Having established himself in the starting eleven for the side, he went on to make forty appearances and scoring three times in all competitions.

At the start of the 2006–07 season, Lindgren continued to establish himself in the starting eleven, playing in the midfield position. He scored his first goal of the season, in a 2–1 win against TOP Oss in the second round of the KNVB Beker on 20 September 2006. In a match against Excelsior on 25 October 2006, Lindgren sent up the club's first goal of the game, but was sent–off for a professional foul on Sieme Zijm in the 81st minute, as FC Groningen won 2–1. After the match, he was given a one match suspension, but the suspension was overturned, due to lack of evidence. Following this, Lindgren contributed three more assists for FC Groningen throughout the 2006–07 season. Despite being sidelined on four occasions during the 2006–07 season, he went on to make thirty–four appearances and scoring once in all competitions.