[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Gretchen Whitmer

ichigan Earned Income Tax Credit, and allocated up to $500 million per year of corporate taxes towards the state's fund for business incentives. In 2022, Michigan had the fifth-lowest state and local tax burden in the nation and the lowest in the Midwest, according to the nonpartisan Tax Foundation.

Whitmer grew Michigan's rainy-day fund to an all-time high of $1.6 billion in 2022 thanks to a $500 million deposit made in 2021 and an additional $180 million deposit in 2022 as part of bipartisan spending agreements. Under Whitmer, Michigan paid down nearly $14 billion in state debt and went from a projected $3 billion deficit to a $9 billion surplus. Michigan became a "standout for investors" under Whitmer with bond returns outperforming neighboring states. In 2021, S&P and Fitch both announced rating outlook upgrades for Michigan, citing the state's responsible fiscal management and economic success emerging from the pandemic. In 2022, Fitch upgraded Michigan's credit rating from AA to AA+, citing the state's strong fiscal position and economic growth.

Voting rights 
On March 28, 2020, Whitmer signed an executive order expanding access to mail-in voting.

Workers' rights
Whitmer supports labor unions. In March 2023, she signed the repeal of the state's 2012 "right-to-work law", making Michigan the first state in 58 years to do this. Whitmer also signed legislation reinstating a prevailing wage law that mandates that contractors hired for projects with the state pay union-level wages.

Personal life
Whitmer and her first husband, Gary Shrewsbury, have two children. The couple divorced, and in 2011 she married dentist Marc P. Mallory, who has three children from his previous marriage. Whitmer and Mallory live in the Michigan Governor's Mansion in Lansing, Michigan with her two daughters and his three sons. They also own a vacation cottage in Antrim County, near Elk Rapids. In May 2021, Whitmer was sharply criticized after being photographed without a mask at a Michigan restaurant, a violation of the state's COVID-19 mandate. She soon apologized publicly.

Whitmer's sister, Liz Whitmer Gereghty, is a Katonah-Lewisboro School Board trustee in Westchester County, New York, and is a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives in New York's 17th district, a swing district held by Republican freshman Mike Lawler, in 2024.

See also 
 Electoral history of Gretchen Whitmer
 List of female governors in the United States

References

External links

 Governor Gretchen Whitmer official government website
 Gretchen Whitmer for Governor campaign website
 
 

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1971 births
Living people
20th-century American politicians
20th-century American women politicians
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
Democratic Party governors of Michigan
 
Democratic Party members of the Michigan House of Representatives
Democratic Party Michigan state senators
Michigan State University College of Law alumni
Politicians from Lansing, Michigan
Women state constitutional officers of Michigan
Women state governors of the United States
Women state legislators in Michigan