[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Faisal Kutty

er and a joint report issued by Stanford Law School/New York University School of Law to make his case.

Islamic law and adoptions 

He has called for reforms in the area of Islam and adoptions citing how contemporary practice clashes with the spirit behind the Quran's calls to take care of orphans.

Kutty argues that the belief that closed adoption, as practiced in the West, is the only acceptable form of permanent childcare is a significant obstacle to its acceptance among many Muslims. Kutty believes that there is sufficient basis in Islamic jurisprudence to argue for qualified support of adoptions and even international adoptions. He writes that it is undeniable that taking care of orphans and foundlings is a religious obligation and that the best interest of children has been a recurrent theme among the various juristic schools. Arguably one of the best ways to take care of these children is to place them in loving homes, provided that a child's lineage is not intentionally negated or concealed. He argues that a reformed model of Islamic adoptions will enable Muslims to fulfill this religious obligation while ensuring that the most vulnerable do not fall through technical cracks and will not be negatively impacted by formal rules that no longer serve their intended purposes.

Niqab or face veils 

He does not believe that face veils are mandatory according to the most authentic interpretations of Islamic law but he defends the rights of women to choose to wear them in a liberal democratic society. He further argues that scholars are unanimous in holding that the face must be uncovered during circumambulation of the Kaaba in Mecca, during what is arguably considered a peak moment of Islamic spirituality.

Islam and same-sex marriage 

He also entered the same-sex marriage debate fray in an article titled "Muslims and Same Sex Marriage: Why the Banning of Gay Marriage May Not Be Required by Islamic Legal Norms" published by the Huffington Post on March 27, 2014. The piece argues that there is sufficient basis within Islamic jurisprudence to not oppose same-sex marriages in a liberal democratic context.  The article notes that the current debate is not about changing Islamic marriage (nikah), but about making "sure that all citizens have access to the same kinds of public benefits."  The piece argues that while same-sex marriage advocates can demand their full constitutional entitlements, they should not interfere in the religious dogma of others by forcing them to approve of what they sincerely believe is wrong.

Blasphemy and free speech 

Kutty has argued that existing blasphemy laws in Muslim nations are anti-Islamic and must be reformed. In a 2014 Huffington Post article he wrote:

Prior to that, in a 2012 article titled "Free Expression and An Elusive Middle Ground: Part One" published by the JURIST, he expressed a view that it is not only Muslims who wish to restrict free speech, referencing a number of laws throughout Europe that restrict free speech.

Personal 

Kutty married Sana Mirza, who hails from Pakistan, in a private ceremony in 2011. He has three children. He has two sisters and one brother. He is the son of Canadian Islamic scholar Ahmad Kutty and brother of Canadian author S.K. Ali.

Awards and recognition 

Kutty was included in The 500 Most Influential Muslims in the World in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. The List is compiled by The Royal Islamic Strategic Studies Institute and is affiliated with the Royal Aal al-Bayt Institute for Islamic Thought.

Kutty has received many awards during his career, including:

 2012: iCair Civil Rights Award from the Cleveland chapter of the Council on American Islamic Relations (CAIR)
 2007: Maher Arar and Monia Award in Civil and Human Rights from Maher Arar/Monia Mazigh and the Canadian Muslim Network for his work in advancing civil and human rights in Canada
 2004 he was awarded the Professional Excellence Award by the American Federation of Muslims from India.
 2003: Community Service Award from the Toronto Community Resources Consultants for his work in advancing human rights in Toronto

Works 

He is a regular contributor to The Toronto Star, The Express Tribune and the Middle East Eye. His writings have also appeared in many newspapers and magazines, including the Toronto Star, The Globe and Mail, Arab News, Alahram Weekly, Northwest Indiana Post-Tribune, Counterpunch, and Lawyers Weekly, National Post among dozens of others.  His work appears regularly in JURIST.