[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Grand Gulf

been sent elsewhere to chase down Grierson's Raid.  The work on the defenses at Grand Gulf had resulted in a much stronger position than had been there at the beginning of March.  Two forts were the strongpoints of the fortification.  The stronger was known as Fort Cobun, and the other as Fort Wade.

Fort Cobun was positioned on a  tall bluff known as Point of Rock and had a parapet that was about  in width.  It mounted four cannonstwo 32-pounder guns, an 8-inch Dahlgren gun, and a 30-pounder Parrott riflewhich were crewed by Battery A, 1st Louisiana Heavy Artillery.  Fort Wade was located  downriver, on a point  above the level of the river and  away from it.  This fort mounted a 100-pounder Blakely rifle, another 8-inch Dahlgren piece, and two more 32-pounders.  These pieces were worked by Wade's Missouri Battery and Guibor's Missouri Battery.  In between the two forts were two rows of rifle pits and a covered passageway.  The 3rd Missouri Infantry Regiment held this position.  A secondary line of rifle pits to the rear on a ridge was defended by five smaller Parrott rifles and the 6th Missouri Infantry Regiment.  Two more cannons and the 1st Confederate Battalion were positioned on a bluff to guard the mouth of the Big Black River, with some sharpshooters from Arkansas, Dawson's Missouri Battery, and a dismounted cavalry unit positioned further up the Big Black River. Porter believed the Confederates were too well-prepared for an attack against Grand Gulf to be worthwhile, and instead suggested that the army march further south, accompanied by the navy's ironclad warships to cover the movement of its transports.  Grant had the area north of Grand Gulf assessed for suitable crossing points, but none could be found. Grant believed that the position would not be difficult to take, so the assault against Grand Gulf would occur as planned.

Battle

At 7:00a.m. on April 29, seven Union Navy ironclads led by Porter moved down the river from Hard Times Landing towards the positions at Grand Gulf.  Roughly 30,000 Union infantry were in the Hard Times Landing area, of whom about 10,000 were on transports. The men on the transports, which had pulled away from the landing and were sheltered behind a spit of land named Point Coffee, were intended to cross the river and occupy Grand Gulf once the Confederate batteries were subdued. Of Porter's ironclads, USS Pittsburgh was in the lead, followed by USS Louisville, USS Carondelet, and USS Mound City.  A second wave composed of USS Benton, USS Tuscumbia, and USS Lafayette followed. A total of 81 cannons were carried by these vessels, compared to 13 in the Confederate positions.  The naval forces also had the advantage in size of artillery: the majority of the Confederate guns were 30-pounders or smaller, as opposed to the median Union piece being a 42-pounder. The ironclads first targeted Fort Cobun, then Pittsburgh, Louisville, Carondelet, and Mound City moved to focus on Fort Wade; the other three remained focused on Fort Cobun.  After passing Fort Cobun, the ships turned so that their bows pointed upstream.  The lead Union vessels opened fire at about 7:50a.m., and Fort Cobun responded about 25 minutes later.  Currents in the river caught some of the Union vessels, forcing them to spin in circles while the Confederate fired upon them.  After the shooting started, the 12th Arkansas Sharpshooter Battalion was moved forward from a reserve position into rifle pits near Fort Cobun.

Although Pittsburgh, Louisville, Carondelet, and Mound City each carried 13 guns, the positioning of the guns on the ships allowed a maximum of four guns at a time to be aimed at the Confederate fortifications, reducing the Union firepower.  By 10:00a.m., Fort Wade was knocked out of action.  One of the large cannons in Fort Wade had exploded, the fortifications themselves had been severely damaged, and Colonel William F. Wade, commanding the post, had been decapitated by Union fire.  The surviving cannons at Fort Wade had been buried under earth from the damaged fortifications.  The four Union vessels that had silenced Fort Wade moved upriver to face the remaining Confederate fort, which fought on.  A Confederate shot struck Benton, destroying the ship's wheel. Confederate troops in the rifle pits also fired into the Union vessels. Around 1:00 p.m., Fort Cobun decreased its fire due to ammunition shortages.  However, Porter and Grant decided not to attempt an amphibious landing against Grand Gulf due to the strength of the Confederate position.  Despite the damage and the ammunition shortage, the Confederate batteries were still capable of repulsing a landing from the transports.  During the action, Porter had been struck in the back of his head with a shell fragment; the painful wound caused him to use his sword as a cane.  The naval vessels had fired more than 2,300 shots during the bombardment.