[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bourekas

resemble a co-centric tower, while spinach filled bourekas resemble a pastry knot. There are also the so-called "Turkish Bourekas" which form rounded equilateral triangles, and are filled with various fillings, whose type can usually be determined by the addition on their outside.

Shape regulation

In June 2013, the Chief Rabbinate of Israel started requiring that bourekas (and also rugelach and croissants) are to have specific shapes in order to be sold by kosher-certified bakers in Israel. According to the law, all bourekas made with puff pastry and containing dairy products had to be shaped into triangles, while parve (nondairy) bourekas made with puff pastry had to be made in round or square shapes. The Chief Rabbinate also implemented different regulations regarding the shape of bourekas made with phyllo dough, these bourekas must be made in triangular-shapes if parve (non-dairy), and "snake-shaped" if made with dairy.

Preparation

Traditionally making bourekas was a very time-consuming process, taking many hours on end until the bourekas were finished. Bourekas are traditionally made with freshly made enriched dough, either similar to puff pastry or phyllo depending on the origin of the baker, although brik pastry, malawach dough, puff pastry, croissant dough, or babka dough are also sometimes used. To make homemade filo for bourekas, a simple flour and water dough is rolled out like thin flatbreads. They are brushed with oil then layered until the dough is very elastic and can be hand pulled until it is translucent. It is a laborious process and storebought frozen puff pastry or phyllo dough is more commonly used by home chefs today.

The dough is then rolled out, and it is cut into various shapes. Any variety of fillings are placed into the center of each piece of dough, the edges of which are sealed with egg wash or water. Each boureka is then brushed with an egg wash and topped with seeds or seasoning, and is baked.

Bourekas are also very commonly sold frozen in grocery and convenience stores in Israel by brands such as Ta'amti and Tnuva in flavors such as cheese, spinach and cheese, potato, and pizza.

Toppings

Bourekas are traditionally topped with any multitude of seeds. Sesame seeds are most common, however depending on the filling, poppy seeds, black sesame seeds, everything bagel seasoning, nigella seeds, or za'atar may be used as a topping.

Sides and condiments

Savory bourekas are traditionally paired with hard boiled eggs or haminados, a hot sauce such as skhug or harif, grated tomato, and sometimes tahini sauce, as well as olives, Israeli pickles, other pickled vegetables, and sometimes a salad as well. The use of skhug and grated tomato as an accompaniment to bourekas originated within the Yemenite Jewish community of Israel, who serve many of their traditional breads such as malawach in a similar manner.

In popular culture

Bourekas film

 	
"Bourekas film" (Hebrew: סרטי בורקס ) are a type of Israeli movie from the 1970s dealing with certain cultural aspects of Israelis, especially lower-class Mizrahi Israelis and their conflicts with the Ashkenazi establishment.  The term is a calque on Spaghetti Western.

See also
Bulemas - a related type of Sephardic Jewish pastries
Rugelach
Empanada
Knish- a similar Ashkenazi Jewish pastry
Samosa
Spanikopita
Tyropita

References

Sephardi Jewish cuisine
Israeli cuisine
Savoury pies
Jewish cuisine

fr:Börek
he:בורקס
sl:Burek