[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Legal outsourcing

st attraction for the western firms that outsource their legal work. India's legal services are widely considered affordable, efficient, and above all, skilled. For a legal job outsourced in India, the U.S. firm pays hardly one-fourth or one-fifth of what it has to pay in the U.S. for the same work.

Advantages
Most firms and corporations outsource primarily to save cash, and this is considered the biggest advantage for legal outsourcing. While an attorney in major legal markets such as the US may charge from $150 to $500 per hour when performing rote services, legal process outsourcing firms generally charge a small fraction of that price. It has attracted major corporations to outsource specific work outside their legal departments. Many destinations for outsourcing have benefited from the  upsurge in bankruptcies and litigations that have occurred in the wake of the Global Financial Crisis. 
As reported in the ABA Journal, "[t]he market for outsourced legal work is booming in India. While lawyers there are doing a lot of routine work, they are also handling some interesting legal matters, including work for the makers of movies and television shows." As stated in USA Today, "'[y]ou could call it "Outsourcing 2.0" or maybe even "3.0." Now firms are increasingly trying to leverage expertise,' says Saikat Chaudhuri, an assistant professor in the business school at the University of Pennsylvania. Legal Outsourcing is 'growing very, very quickly.'"

LPO industry and the global financial crisis

LPO firms in India had predicted an annual growth of 200% due to recession related litigation and the increased need to save costs in the US. Their expectations have not been met.  The major reason for this is that US lawyers themselves have started looking at alternative fee structures due to the recession and job losses. In spite of setbacks, the LPO industry has seen growth of about 40-60% in the last year. Although some areas of practice, such as real estate, have drastically collapsed due to the recession, some areas such as litigation, document review, and corporate compliance have gained ground, resulting in business directed to LPO firms in India.

Criticisms
One of the major concerns with  outsourcing is the potential for breaches of client confidentiality. In  legal process outsourcing  the issue of client confidentiality assumes utmost importance. The attorney–client privilege is a doctrine that says anything conveyed between an attorney and his client shall be treated with utmost confidentiality and is exempted from disclosure even in a court of law. However, when either party discloses confidential information to a third party or the opposite party, the privilege is deemed to be waived. During the early years of legal process outsourcing, many law firms hesitated to outsource their work. Critics and opponents state that, since communication is being sent to a country other than United States, the confidentiality is broken; hence, the attorney client privilege has been waived. However, American Bar Association clarified this in 2008, clearing the way for the development of legal process outsourcing.

Another criticism is that  people performing legal work may not be bound to necessary ethical standards. The process of Legal Outsourcing has come in conflict with the Model Code of Conduct issued by the American Bar Association. However, there have been ethics opinions from various local bar associations (New York, San Diego) and recently the American Bar Association that discuss ethical legal outsourcing and how to achieve it. However, there is criticism that the use of legal outsourcing creates a breach of ABA Model Rule 5.4 which prohibits attorneys from sharing fees with non-attorneys and, also, the prohibition on the practice of law by foreign non-attorneys.