[Source: Gutenberg#2814 | Part 43]
# Utopia — Thomas More

ressing Mr O’Connor.

“I think you’re right,” said Mr O’Connor.

“One man is a plain honest man with no hunker-sliding about him. He
goes in to represent the labour classes. This fellow you’re working for
only wants to get some job or other.”

“Of course, the working-classes should be represented,” said the old
man.

“The working-man,” said Mr Hynes, “gets all kicks and no halfpence. But
it’s labour produces everything. The working-man is not looking for fat
jobs for his sons and nephews and cousins. The working-man is not going
to drag the honour of Dublin in the mud to please a German monarch.”

“How’s that?” said the old man.

“Don’t you know they want to present an address of welcome to Edward
Rex if he comes here next year? What do we want kowtowing to a foreign
king?”

“Our man won’t vote for the address,” said Mr O’Connor. “He goes in on
the Nationalist ticket.”

“Won’t he?” said Mr Hynes. “Wait till you see whether he will or not. I
know him. Is it Tricky Dicky Tierney?”

“By God! perhaps you’re right, Joe,” said Mr O’Connor. “Anyway, I wish
he’d turn up with the spondulics.”

The three men fell silent. The old man began to rake more cinders
together. Mr Hynes took off his hat, shook it and then turned down the
collar of his coat, displaying, as he did so, an ivy leaf in the lapel.

“If this man was alive,” he said, pointing to the leaf, “we’d have no
talk of an address of welcome.”

“That’s true,” said Mr O’Connor.

“Musha, God be with them times!” said the old man. “There was some life
in it then.”

The room was silent again. Then a bustling little man with a snuffling
nose and very cold ears pushed in the door. He walked over quickly to
the fire, rubbing his hands as if he intended to produce a spark from
them.

“No money, boys,” he said.

“Sit down here, Mr Henchy,” said the old man, offering him his chair.

“O, don’t stir, Jack, don’t stir,” said Mr Henchy.

He nodded curtly to Mr Hynes and sat down on the chair which the old
man vacated.

“Did you serve Aungier Street?” he asked Mr O’Connor.

“Yes,” said Mr O’Connor, beginning to search his pockets for memoranda.

“Did you call on Grimes?”

“I did.”

“Well? How does he stand?”

“He wouldn’t promise. He said: ‘I won’t tell anyone what way I’m going
to vote.’ But I think he’ll be all right.”

“Why so?”

“He asked me who the nominators were; and I told him. I mentioned
Father Burke’s name. I think it’ll be all right.”

Mr Henchy began to snuffle and to rub his hands over the fire at a
terrific speed. Then he said:

“For the love of God, Jack, bring us a bit of coal. There must be some
left.”

The old man went out of the room.

“It’s no go,” said Mr Henchy, shaking his head. “I asked the little
shoeboy, but he said: ‘Oh, now, Mr Henchy, when I see the work going on
properly I won’t forget you, you may be sure.’ Mean little tinker!
’Usha, how could he be anything else?”

“What did I tell you, Mat?” said Mr Hynes. “Tricky Dicky Tierney.”

“O, he’s as tricky as they make ’em,” said Mr Henchy. “He hasn’t got
those little pigs’ eyes for nothing. Blast his soul! Couldn’t he pay up
like a man instead of: ‘O, now, Mr Henchy, I must speak to Mr
Fanning.... I’ve spent a lot of money’? Mean little shoeboy of hell! I
suppose he forgets the time his little old father kept the hand-me-down
shop in Mary’s Lane.”

“But is that a fact?” asked Mr O’Connor.

“God, yes,” said Mr Henchy. “Did you never hear that? And the men used
to go in on Sunday morning before the houses were open to buy a
waistcoat or a trousers—moya! But Tricky Dicky’s little old father
always had a tricky little black bottle up in a corner. Do you mind
now? That’s that. That’s where he first saw the light.”

The old man returned with a few lumps of coal which he placed here and
there on the fire.

“That’s a nice how-do-you-do,” said Mr O’Connor. “How does he expect us
to work for him if he won’t stump up?”

“I can’t help it,” said Mr Henchy. “I expect to find the bailiffs in
the hall when I go home.”

Mr Hynes laughed and, shoving himself away from the mantelpiece with
the aid of his shoulders, made ready to leave.

“It’ll be all right when King Eddie comes,” he said. “Well boys, I’m
off for the present. See you later. ’Bye, ’bye.”

He went out of the room slowly. Neither Mr Henchy nor the old man said
anything but, just as the door was closing, Mr O’Connor, who had been
staring moodily into the fire, called out suddenly:

“’Bye, Joe.”

Mr Henchy waited a few moments and then nodded in the direction of the
door.

“Tell me,” he said across the fire, “what brings our friend in here?
What does he want?”

“’Usha, poor Joe!” said Mr O’Connor, throwing the end of his cigarette
into the fire, “he’s hard up, like the rest of us.”

Mr Henchy snuffled vigorously and spat so copiously that he nearly put
out the fire, which uttered a hissing protest.

“To tell you my priv