[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Zacarias Moussaoui

new details of the extent and nature of that support in the pre-9/11 period. Judge Leonie M. Brinkema declared "Moussaoui is completely competent", called him "an extremely intelligent man" and added: "He has actually a better understanding of the legal system than some lawyers I've seen in court".

The former senators Bob Graham of Florida and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and the former Navy secretary John Lehman believed the Saudi role in the 9/11 plot had never been adequately examined and they demanded the release of 28 pages of the congressional report that explored Saudi connections. Both the administrations of George W. Bush and Barack Obama had refused to declassify the 28 pages on grounds of "national security", but as Graham argued, the opposite was true; the real "threat to national security is non-disclosure": The Saudis know what they did and the U.S. knows what they did, and when the U.S. government takes a position of passivity, or actively shuts down inquiry, that sends a message to the Saudis. "They have continued, maybe accelerated their support for the most extreme form of Islam known as Wahhabism" he stated, arguing that both al Qaeda and Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant are "a creation of Saudi Arabia". On 7 January 2015, Graham, Congressmen Walter Jones and Stephen F. Lynch, and members of the 9/11 families including Terry Strada, national co-chair of the ″9/11 Families and Survivors United for Justice Against Terrorism″, held a press conference on Capitol Hill announcing the reintroduction of the resolution calling for the declassification of the 28 pages. Graham said that those pages "point a very strong finger at Saudi Arabia as the principal financier" of the 9/11 hijackers: "This may seem stale to some but it's as current as the headlines we see today," referring to the terrorist attack on a satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris. In 2016 a partially redacted form of the pages were declassified by the Obama administration.

Reward
On 24 January 2008, Clarence Prevost, the flight instructor who led authorities to Moussaoui, received a $5 million reward from the U.S. government. The payment was questioned by agent Coleen Rowley and Senators Amy Klobuchar and Norm Coleman, among others, on the basis that two other flight instructors had made the initial calls to the FBI.

See also
 Nick Berg
 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, believed to be a principal architect of the 11 September plot
 Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh
 Richard Reid
 Mohamed Atta, Lead hijacker of 9/11 terrorists, died in the attacks
 Ramzi bin al-Shibh, roommate of Atta, imprisoned under similar conditions as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed (believed to be in Guantanamo Bay)
 Trials related to the 11 September attacks

Notes

References
 Moussaoui, Abd Samad. Zacarias My Brother ().
 Moussaoui pleads guilty to role in 9/11 attacks. Guardian Unlimited/Associated Press (April 22, 2005).
 "Moussaoui formally sentenced, still defiant". Associated Press, MSNBC.com.
 "Moussaoui scorns 9/11 victims" Al Jazeera (April 14, 2006)]
 Novak, Viveca. "How the Moussaoui Case Crumbled" Time (October 27, 2003).
 Special Verdict Form for Phase II  Official jury ballot (PDF)
 Timeline: The Zacarias Moussaoui Case. CNN.com.
 Donahue, Katherine C. 2007. Slave of Allah: Zacarias Moussaoui vs. The USA. London: Pluto Press. ()

External links

 Trial of Zacarias Moussaoui
 documents from The Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press
 Looking for Trouble (Time magazine)

1968 births
Living people
21st-century French criminals
People from Saint-Jean-de-Luz
French Islamists
French people of Moroccan descent
Alumni of London South Bank University
Inmates of ADX Florence
French al-Qaeda members
People convicted on terrorism charges
People imprisoned on charges of terrorism
French prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment
Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment by the United States federal government
French people imprisoned abroad
People associated with the September 11 attacks
American people of Moroccan descent