[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Harry Hays

as a compromise renamed the passenger terminal from "Calgary Municipal Airport" to "Calgary International Airport". Public and council support ensured the remaining area of the airport including the runway would remain called "McCall Field" after Calgary aviator and First World War ace Fred McCall.

Federal politics
Hays was recruited by Lester Pearson to run for the Liberals in the 1963 federal election in Calgary South, defeating Progressive Conservative opponent, current Aldermen, and future Calgary Mayor Jack Leslie. Hays would be the only Liberal Member of Parliament elected in Alberta or Saskatchewan. At the time, Calgary South was considered a conservative stronghold and Hays would have a difficult contest against his conservative opponent Leslie. Hays was able to garner significant financial support through his 60-person-strong "Citizens for Hays Committee", which included Aldermen Grant MacEwan and P.N.R. Morrison, and several prominent businessmen including Carl Nickle, James K. Gray, Harry Cohen, Jack Pierce, and Peter Rule. On April 5, just three days prior to the federal election, Hays would announce an agreement with CPR for a "$35 Million Face-Lift for Calgary" which would result in "a rebuilt downtown within two decades." Hays' opponent Jack Leslie would later admit to seeing this announcement as a political ploy.

Upon his election Hays would join Pearson's cabinet as Minister of Agriculture. Hays was often absent from the House and initially continued to serve as Calgary's mayor after his election to parliament. He also continued his work as an auctioneer as well as his volunteer duties for the Rotary Club.

Hays had little formal education and was popular for his down to earth manner of living and talking and often swore and used poor grammar and colourful expressions. He described his agricultural policy by saying  "We want a flush-toilet, not an outhouse, farm economy for Canada". However, some of his views were unpopular with farmers, such as his opposition to farm subsidies. He advocated a minimum guaranteed income for farmers and a system of marketing boards. During his tenure as minister the Dairy Commission Act was introduced establishing an agency to purchase, store and market dairy products. He was also responsible for the Farm Machinery Syndicate Credit Act which extended loans to farmers to buy machinery co-operatively. Journalist Walter Stewart once wrote of Hays that "No minister seems more inept inside Parliament and few get so much done outside it."

Hays also established the Western College of Veterinary Medicine in Saskatoon and was responsible for expanding crop insurance and introducing a national farm accounting system.

Hays and Tory Alvin Hamilton were bitter rivals with Hamilton denigrating Hays' efforts regularly. Hays once challenged Hamilton to prove he could beat Hays in a cow milking contest but the competition never came to pass.

Hays was defeated in his attempt to retain his seat in the 1965 federal election by Progressive Conservative candidate and two-term Calgary Aldermen Ray Ballard by a margin of 115 votes. Hays loss can be attributed to the limited popularity of the Liberal government in Alberta, however, Hays was appointed to the Senate of Canada in 1966 on the advice of Pearson and served on the Senate's agriculture committee for a number of years.

In 1980 he co-chaired the special joined committee of the Senate and House of Commons on the Canadian Constitution and was an advocate of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and of reducing the Senate's power to veto legislation approved by the House of Commons.

Later life
He died in office in 1982 following heart surgery.

Honours

The federal building in downtown Calgary at 220 4 Ave SE, the Harry Hays Building, is named in his honour. The building is an 8-story, 671,500 square foot building covering an entire block next to the Bow River, designed by Chandler Kennedy and completed in 1978.
The provincial electoral district Calgary-Hays located in Southern Calgary is named in his honour.
The community of Haysboro in Calgary, was built on land Harry Hays sold in 1959.

Archives 
There is a Harry William Hays fonds at Library and Archives Canada.

See also
 Hays Converter

References

Sources

Notes

Further reading

External links
 Biography of Hays  at the Department of Agriculture
 

1909 births
1982 deaths
Mayors of Calgary
Canadian senators from Alberta
20th-century Canadian farmers
Liberal Party of Canada MPs
Liberal Party of Canada senators
Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Alberta
Members of the King's Privy Council for Canada
People from Carstairs, Alberta
Calgary city councillors
20th-century Canadian politicians