[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wolfgang Schellmann

on 11 October, Schellmann was appointed Gruppenkommandeur (group commander) of II. Gruppe of JG 2 on 15 December. The unit was formed from elements of both I. Gruppe of JG 2 and I. Gruppe of Jagdgeschwader 3 (JG 3—3rd Fighter Wing). The Gruppe was officially declared operational on 15 January 1940.

At the start of the Battle of France, II. Gruppe of JG 2 was deployed on the northern sector of Army Group B and had been ordered to an airfield at Hamminkeln on 11 May. Initially subordinated to the IV. Fliegerkorps (4th Air Corps), the Gruppe flew fighter escort missions on the first three days of the campaign for Lehrgeschwader 1 (LG 1—1st Demonstration Wing), Kampfgeschwader 27 (KG 27—27th Bomber Wing) and Sturzkampfgeschwader 3 (StG 3—3rd Dive Bomber Wing) attacking targets in the Netherlands. On 14 May, II. Gruppe was ordered to Peer in Belgium where the Gruppe was placed under the command of the Stab of Jagdgeschwader 26 "Schlageter" (JG 26—26th Fighter Wing). There, II. Gruppe fought against the Royal Air Force (RAF) Advanced Air Striking Force (AASF) and Schellmann was credited with the destruction of a Hawker Hurricane fighter on 15 May. On 17 May, the Gruppe moved to Attenrode and Schellmann claimed a Westland Lysander aircraft shot down southeast of Brussels. Two days later, he shot down another Lysander west of Tournai. Due to the advance of Army Group B, II. Gruppe moved to an airfield at Grandglise. The Gruppe stayed at Grandglise until the end of the Battle of Dunkirk. Fighting in these aerial battles, Schellmann claimed a Supermarine Spitfire fighter shot down near Furnes on 31 May, a Lysander over Dunkirk on 1 June, and another Spitfire over Dunkirk on 2 June. On 3 June, Schellmann and his Gruppe moved to an airfield named Mannessecourt and participated in Operation Paula, the failed attempt to destroy the remaining units of the Armée de l'Air (ALA—French Air Force). That day, Schellmann claimed his last aerial victory of the campaign when he shot down an ALA Morane-Saulnier M.S.406 fighter near Compiègne.

In support of Fall Rot (Case Red), the second phase of the conquest of France, II. Gruppe was subordinated to the Stab of JG 2 and ordered to Monceau-le-Waast on 4 June. On 5 June, together with the other elements of JG 2, II. Gruppe fought over the combat area of the 6th and 9th Army. In contrast to the other groups of JG 2, II. Gruppe pilots claimed just one aerial victory on 6 June and another on 13 June. As German ground forces advanced towards the Aisne, the Gruppe faced less aerial opposition resulting in more ground support missions flown. Following the Armistice of 22 June 1940, combat operation concluded on 25 June. On 27 June, II. Gruppe was ordered to Beaumont-le-Roger, patrolling the English Channel and participated in the occupation of Guernsey on 1 July. Schellmann claimed his first aerial victory during the Battle of Britain on 18 July when he shot down a Bristol Blenheim bomber north of Le Havre. On Adlertag, 13 August, he led II. Gruppe on a fighter sweep, clearing the airspace for the Luftwaffe bombers. Flying with the Geschwaderstab on 25 and 27 August, Schellmann claimed a Spitfire shot down near Warmwell and another Spitfire near Wareham. On 31 August, he shot down a Hurricane near Eastchurch also flying the Geschwaderstab. At the time, Schellmann was already considered to become the next Geschwaderkommodore (wing commander) of JG 2.

Wing commander
In late August it was becoming apparent to the Oberkommando der Wehrmacht (German High Command) that the Battle of Britain was not going as planned. The frustrated Commander-in-Chief of the Luftwaffe, Hermann Göring, relieved several Geschwaderkommodore of their commands, and appointed younger, more aggressive men in their place. In consequence, on 2 September, Schellmann was given command of JG 2 thus succeeding Oberstleutnant Harry von Bülow-Bothkamp who was transferred. Command of II. Gruppe was passed to Hauptmann Karl-Heinz Greisert. On 18 September, he was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross () for his 23 victories, including the 12 in Spain. The presentation was made by Göring at the headquarters of the Netherlands, General der Flieger (General of the Flyers) Friedrich Christiansen, at Wassenaar near The Hague on 19 September. Schellmann claimed his only aerial victory as Geschwaderkommodore of JG 2 on 26 September 1940 when he shot down a Spitfire fighter near the Isle of Wight.