[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ralph D. Winter

nd other writings by Ralph, that he asked Winter to join the faculty with him and Alan Tippett, a noted anthropologist. Winter was a professor at Fuller from 1966 to 1976.  During this time, Winter taught more than a thousand missionaries who he said helped him learn about the global mission fields.

It was also in these years that he founded the William Carey Library, (now, William Carey Publishing) which publishes and distributes mission materials; co-founded the American Society of Missiology; launched what is now the Perspectives Study Program (first called the Summer Institute of International Studies); and presented the idea of the "hidden peoples," which later became synonymous with the phrase "unreached peoples," at the 1974 Lausanne Congress in Switzerland.

Later life and works 
After the 1974 Lausanne Congress, Winter and his wife Roberta felt there needed to be a place to tackle cultural and linguistic barriers hindering the sharing of the Gospel with all peoples.  In 1976, Winter left his secure, tenured position at Fuller Theological Seminary to focus on calling attention to the unreached peoples.  In November 1976, the Winters founded the mission think tank USCWM (now Frontier Ventures) with no staff but their secretary and only $100 in cash.

Calling himself a "Christian social engineer," Winter helped found a number of other organizations and groups, in addition to William Carey Library, including William Carey International University (1977), the International Society for Frontier Missiology (1986), and the Institute for the Study of the Origins of Disease (1999).

In the last year of his life, Winter helped organize the Tokyo 2010 Global Mission Consultation, which was held in May 2010. Tokyo 2010 brought together around 1,000 mission leaders to discuss the unfinished task of reaching the world's remaining least-reached peoples.

Steve Richardson argues that Winter "effectively reframed the unfinished task and the church's understanding of the Great Commission in terms of reaching unreached ethnolinguistic people groups."

Recognition 
In 2005, Winter was named by Time magazine as one of the 25 Most Influential Evangelicals in America.

He was presented the 2008 Lifetime of Service Award at the North American Mission Leaders Conference of Missio Nexus (formerly The Mission Exchange).

Death 
Winter died on May 20, 2009, at the age of 84 from multiple myeloma and lymphoma.

Family
Winter's first wife, Roberta, died of multiple myeloma in 2001, just six weeks shy of their 50th anniversary.  He remarried on July 6, 2002, to Barbara Scotchmer, a long-time family friend.  In total, Winter had four daughters (Elizabeth, Rebecca, Linda and Patricia) with Roberta. All four of his daughters are involved in mission activities.  At the time of his death, Winter had 14 grandchildren, two great-granddaughters and one great-grandson. He had two brothers, David K. Winter, president of Westmont College for many years, and Paul Winter, structural engineer.  His parents were Hazel Clare (Patterson) Winter and Hugo H. Winter, also known as "Mr. Freeway" for his role in the early development of the freeway system in Los Angeles County.

Mottos in life 
"Never do anything others can do or will do, when there are things to be done that others can't do or won't" – Dawson Trotman (founder of The Navigators, a big influence on Winter in his youth)

“Risk is not to be evaluated in terms of the probability of success but by the value of the goal" – Dr. Ralph D. Winter

“Nothing that does not occur daily will ever dominate your life" – Dr. Ralph D. Winter 

"If it is worth doing, it is worth doing poorly" – a slight variation of a quote from GK Chesterton "If a thing is worth doing, it is worth doing badly."

"You can get a lot done if you don't care who gets the credit" – Dr. Ralph D. Winter

Notes

Further reading
 Winter, Roberta H. (2003)  I Will Do a New Thing:  The U.S. Center for World Mission – And Beyond.  Pasadena, California, USA: William Carey Library.
 Parsons, Greg H. (2012) Ralph D. Winter: Early Life and Core Missiology. Pasadena, California, USA: William Carey International University Press.
 Fickett, Harold (2013) "The Ralph D. Winter Story - How One Man Dared to Shake Up World Missions." Pasadena, California, USA:  William Carey Library

External links
U.S. Center for World Mission Official website of the U.S. Center for World Mission
Perspectives Perspectives on the World Christian Movement website
The Christian Post Dr. Ralph D. Winter page on The Christian Post
Vimeo.com - Ralph D. Winter Memorial Service contains videos of the Memorial Service held on 28 June 2009 in Pasadena, CA.  Segment 1/5 contains a video tribute and biography.
 

1924 births
2009 deaths
Missiologists