[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Piersanti Mattarella

Orlando, former mayor of Palermo for the DC and Antimafia activist, who had been a legal adviser to Mattarella, the rumours about his father and his party's experiences with the Mafia were probably responsible for Piersanti's aspiration to clean the Christian Democrat party of any such connections.

The Italian national Anti-mafia Prosecutor, Piero Grasso, said that Mattarella was killed because "he was trying to accomplish a new political and administrative project, a true revolution, which, through a deep change in the management of the Region, aimed at breaking well established relations between bureaucracy, politics, business and the mafia. His policy of radical moralization of public life, based on the idea that Sicily needed to present itself with 'the papers in order', had upset the system of public procurement, with stunning moves, never seen before in the Island". Judge Giancarlo Caselli, Chief Prosecutor in Palermo for many years, described Mattarella as "a honest and courageous Christian democrat, killed just because he was honest and courageous".

His younger brother, Sergio Mattarella, was elected as President of the Italian Republic in February 2015.

See also
List of victims of the Sicilian Mafia

References

Sources
Dickie, John (2004). Cosa Nostra. A history of the Sicilian Mafia, London: Coronet, 
Ginsborg, Paul (2003). Italy and Its Discontents, London: Palgrave Macmillan  (Review Institute of Historical Research | Review New York Times)
Grasso, Piero (2009). Per non morire di mafia, Sperling & Kupfer, ISBN
Orlando, Leoluca (2003). Fighting the Mafia and Renewing Sicilian Culture, New York: Encounter Books, 
Schneider, Jane T. & Peter T. Schneider (2003). Reversible Destiny: Mafia, Antimafia, and the Struggle for Palermo, Berkeley: University of California Press 
Stille, Alexander (1995). Excellent Cadavers. The Mafia and the Death of the First Italian Republic, New York: Vintage

External links

1935 births
1980 deaths
Presidents of Sicily
People from Castellammare del Golfo
Christian Democracy (Italy) politicians
20th-century Italian politicians
Assassinated Sicilian politicians
People murdered by the Sicilian Mafia
People murdered in Italy
Mattarella family