[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Terminator 3: The Redemption

ption. Atari acquired the rights to use the likeness of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Kristanna Loken, who portray the Terminators in the film. Scans of the actors were taken in 3D to create their in-game counterparts. Paradigm also worked with C2 Pictures on the game's enemy designs and story elements.

Lead game designer Shawn Wright said that working on a film license provided many advantages such as an existing universe and characters, but also said that a disadvantage is that content needed to be sent out to California to be approved. The game includes footage from the film. Aspects of the game were influenced by Grand Theft Auto III though the development team were careful not to create a GTA clone. Paradigm stated that 50 percent of the gameplay is vehicle-based, 25 percent with rail-shooter action and the final 25 percent is character combat. The fast pace of the game was a conscious decision by the developers of the game. Producer Josh Hackney said, "We didn't want to take the gameplay and player control away from the player for more than five seconds." A feature developed for the game, but removed in the final version was the use of mission timers. The timer required the player to finish certain levels within a set time. Otherwise, they will not progress to the next level. The final game uses timers but they are unnecessary to finish the level. Instead, the player can progress at their own pace. If the mission is completed within the time limit then the player will be rewarded. The targeting system was also changed during development. Schwarzenegger provided some voice acting for the game and the rest was voiced by a soundalike, Mark Mosley.

Development was concluded as of August 2004, and the game was shipped to North American retailers on September 9, 2004, less than 10 months after the previous Terminator 3 game. In Japan, the game was released for PlayStation 2 and GameCube on January 20, 2005.

Reception 

Terminator 3: The Redemption received "mixed or average" reviews on all platforms according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. The game was seen as an improvement over the original Terminator 3 game, and some critics considered the "Redemption" title an appropriate one, with Alex Navarro of GameSpot writing "the name The Redemption seems all too apt when describing this latest Terminator title, because it turns out that this one is actually pretty good."

Jeremy Dunham of IGN considered it the first good game in the series since The Terminator: Future Shock. Louis Bedigian of GameZone favorably compared the game's action to that of the Terminator 2: Judgment Day arcade game. Other reviewers for GameZone concluded that it was the best Terminator game yet. However, critics generally recommended the game as a rental rather than a purchase. GamePro wrote that "although Redemption has its moments, it merits a cautionary rental. Redemption gives some luster back to the Terminator name, but not much." Russ Fischer of GameSpy wrote, "Atari and Paradigm have put together a title that nails the tone of the source, without entirely capturing the appeal."

Praise went to the graphics, including the character models. Game Informer called Schwarzenegger's character "eerily perfect" in appearance. Bennett Ring of The Sydney Morning Herald stated that "The levels are so big and detailed that it's a wonder they don't bring your console to a crashing halt." Some critics believed that the graphics looked best on the Xbox version. The film footage featured in the game received some criticism for its low quality.

The gameplay was criticized as linear and repetitive. Some critics also believed the game lacked replay value. However, praise went to the variety of gameplay styles, which Dunham found to be "surprisingly addictive." Reviewers also criticized the gameplay for its trial-and-error element. The difficulty was criticized as well, including the lack of save points, forcing the player to start a level from the beginning if they lose. Eduardo Zacarias of GameZone wrote, "If there's a game that could have used a checkpoint, this is it." However, Dunham enjoyed the difficulty. Navarro stated that despite the difficulty, the missions "are usually good enough that you will want to keep coming back to try again." Some reviewers were critical of the game's targeting system, although Fischer considered it easy to use.

Critics praised the driving and rail shooter levels, which were generally considered to be the best parts of the game. Mike Reilly of Game Revolution wrote that the on-foot levels "are a bit drab in comparison." GameZone's Natalie Romano wrote "it's the driving parts that keep this from being just a simple shooter". GamePro opined that the film-based levels were not as fun as those created specifically for the game.