[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Yousef Beidas

he bank in an effort to induce Lebanon to accept more Palestinian refugees: "When Kuwait made huge withdrawals from Lebanon's Intra bank (to induce the country to accept more Palestinian refugees) the bank failed, and the collapse of the Lebanese economy was barely forestalled."

Aftermath and death

Beidas was in Europe trying to raise loans to refloat Intra when the Lebanese government contacted Interpol to have him arrested and extradited. He fled to Brazil with his wife and three children to avoid legal charges, given the precarious legal situation for Palestinians in Lebanon. The following year he was indicted in absentia for fraudulent bankruptcy and the prosecutor asked for a sentence of 7 years hard labour. Though Brazil had no extradition agreements with Lebanon, Lebanese authorities requested a courtesy deportment to make him stand trial. He was placed under house arrest when Lebanese authorities circulated stories that he had financed Brazil's enemies. Beidas faked a heart attack and was recovered in a clinic to sidestep any extradition moves.

Beidas died of pancreatic cancer in Lucerne in 1968, aged 56. He was destitute and nursed by Nabiha, Edward Said's aunt on his father's side,. Rumours circulated that his decease was 'mysterious'.

Robert Vesco tried but failed to take over what was left of the bank.

Najib Alamuddin wrote in his autobiography The Flying Sheikh:

"I am convinced the affair was the beginning of the disintegration of Lebanon and its old type of Lebanese government – a system corrupt in style and morals that had plagued Lebanon since independence and finally plunged the nation into a civil war that threatened its very survival as an independent state."

Edward Said had a slightly different take on the events in his autobiography Out of Place:
"Beidas' astounding rise and fall was considered by some to presage the terrible Lebanese-Palestinian disputes of the seventies, but it seemed to me to symbolize the broken trajectory imposed on so many of [the Palestinians] by the events of 1948"

See also
 Palestinian Christians

Notes

Citations

External links
 'The New MidEast Money Man', TIME Magazine, 27 April 1962
 "The Flying Sheikh"
 "Short biography (Arabic)"

References

1912 births
1968 deaths
Eastern Orthodox Christians from Lebanon
Palestinian businesspeople
Palestinian emigrants to Lebanon
Palestinian Christians
20th-century Lebanese businesspeople