[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Josiah Gorgas

blished University of the South in Sewanee, Tennessee. His position there was marked by discord with the board of trustees and the stress of keeping the university financially afloat. A student residence hall built as part of the Sewanee Military Academy was later renamed "Gorgas Hall" in his honor.

In 1878, Gorgas was elected 8th president of the University of Alabama.  When he was forced to resign due to ill health, the trustees created the position of librarian for him, the position in which his wife was to succeed him. Upon his resignation as president, the university allowed the Gorgas family to move into the Pratt House, which also housed the campus post office and student hospital. The building had originally been the 1829 dining hall and later converted to a faculty residence in 1847.  The building was dedicated as a memorial to the family in 1944, and became a museum now known as the Gorgas House upon the death of the last two surviving Gorgas children in 1953.

Death and legacy
Gorgas died at the age of 65 in Tuscaloosa in 1883, and was buried at Evergreen Cemetery.

His widow Amelia served as the university's librarian for 23 years after his death and the main university library is named the Amelia Gayle Gorgas Library in her honor. Their oldest son, William Crawford Gorgas (born 1854) served as  Surgeon General of the U.S. Army and is credited with implementing preventive measures against yellow fever and malaria that allowed for the completion of the Panama Canal.

See also

 Blockade runners of the American Civil War
 Gorgas machine gun
 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes

The birthplace of Josiah Gorgas on various websites is erroneously listed as "Running Pumps, PA."  Josiah was actually born in a house adjacent to the family's cotton factory near the Running Pumps Hotel, just north of Elizabethtown, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.  Josiah's father once owned the Running Pumps Hotel, but due to financial difficulties, he had to sell the Running Pumps Hotel in 1813, five years before Josiah's birth in 1818.  (Source:  Winters Heritage House Museum, Elizabethtown, Pennsylvania.)

References
  Url
  Url
 
 Vandiver, Frank E., ed., The Civil War Diary of General Josiah Gorgas (University of Alabama, 1947)

External links

 Josiah Gorgas in Encyclopedia Virginia
 Brigadier-General Josiah Gorgas- the third of "Sewanee's Five Generals"
 Smithsonian: West Point in the making of America
 Josiah Gorgas article, Encyclopedia of Alabama 
 Josiah and Amelia Gorgas Family papers, W.S. Hoole Special Collections Library, The University of Alabama.
 

1818 births
1883 deaths
People from Elizabethtown, Pennsylvania
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
United States Military Academy alumni
Sewanee: The University of the South administrators
Northern-born Confederates
Presidents of the University of Alabama
People of Virginia in the American Civil War
Military personnel from Pennsylvania