[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Staffordshire Yeomanry

e days of desultory firing followed before reinforcements arrived, when the Boers fled. In the pursuit the IY were used fo wide turning movements. In the next operation Rundle's force was ordered to advance north on a wide front to sweep up the Boers in his path as the army advanced on Bloemfontein.

Over the following months the 6th (Staffordshire) Company carried out hard service. During the course of the campaign Capt Bromley-Davenport was promoted to command 4th Bn as acting Lt-Col and Capt T.A. Wight–Boycott of the Staffs Yeomanry became the battalion's major; both were awarded the Distinguished Service Order (DSO). When the company completed its service in May 1901, only half of the company was mustered, despite a draft of reinforcements having been received. Three members of the contingent had died from wounds received in action, and 11 from disease; one officer and 50 men had been invalided. Six yeomen had received commissions and four had joined the police in South Africa. Some 60 men embarked at Cape Town and arrived at Southampton on 8 June.

Meanwhile, a second contingent had been sent to South Africa to replace 6th Company, and a new 106th (Staffordshire) Company had also been sent out to join 4th Bn. However, the Second Contingent of yeomanry were generally not as well selected or trained as the first, and the battalions had to undergo much 'weeding' and reorganisation after their arrival in April before they were ready for service$. th Battalion was still with Rundle's division, attached to 16th Brigade at Bethlehem. The force provided escorts and cover for the working parties constructing blockhouse lines. After the 11th Bn IY were overrun at the disastrous Battle of Groenkop or Tweefontein on 25 December, 4th Bn went out with a mounted column under Maj-Gen Edward Locke Elliot that pursued the Boers and almost caught them at Armstrong Drift on 28 December but were foiled by night falling. For two more days they pursued, but the Boers got away and the British column had to return for supplies. The two Staffordshire companies spent the rest of the war trekking over South Africa, taking part in 'drives' to round up Boers. After the Treaty of Vereeniging on 31 May 1902, they embarked for home in July, arriving in England in August.

The service of these two companies earned the Staffordshire Yeomanry its first Battle honour: South Africa 1900–01.

Staffordshire Imperial Yeomanry
The Imperial Yeomanry concept was considered a success and before the war ended the existing Yeomanry regiments at home were converted into Imperial Yeomanry, with an establishment of RHQ and four squadrons with a machine gun section. The regiment was redesignated the Staffordshire Imperial Yeomanry (Queen's Own Royal Regiment) in May 1901.

In 1905 RHQ and the regimental stores moved from the Friary at Lichfield to 38 Tamworth Street, Lichfield. Annual training was usually carried out at Trentham Park outside Stoke. Colonel Sir Reginald Hardy resigned the command of the regiment on 13 March 1906 and was succeeded by Lt-Col A.H. Heath, with Lt-Col Bromley-Davenport as second-in-command.

Territorial Force

The Imperial Yeomanry were subsumed into the new Territorial Force (TF) under the Haldane Reforms of 1908. On 1 April 1908 the regiment was redesignated as the  Staffordshire Yeomanry (Queen's Own Royal Regiment) (TF) affiliated to Hussars, with the following organisation:
 RHQ moved in 1914 from Tamworth Street, Lichfield, to Friars' Walk Drill Hall, Bailey Sreet, Stafford (shared with 6th Staffordshire Battery, Royal Field Artillery)
 A Sqn at Walsall, with detachments at Carters Green, West Bromwich (shared with 5th Staffordshire Battery, Royal Field Artillery); Tamworth; Frog Lane, Lichfield (shared with E Company, 6th Bn North Staffordshire Regiment, with Yeomanry also at Holly House, Lombard Street, in the town); and Sutton Coldfield
 B Sqn at Stoke-on-Trent with detachments at Stafford, Leek, Cannock and Newcastle-under-Lyme
 C Sqn at Burton-on-Trent, with a detachment at High Street, Uttoxeter
 D Sqn at Stafford Street Drill Hall, Wolverhampton (shared with 3rd North Midland Brigade, Royal Field Artillery and 6th Bn, South Staffordshire Regiment), with a detachment at Himley

The regiment formed part of the TF's North Midland Mounted Brigade. Lieutenant-Col Heath retired in April 1910 and Lt-Col Bromley-Davenport succeeded to the command.

World War I

Mobilisation
When war was declared on 4 August 1914, the Staffordshire Yeomanry mobilised at Stafford under the command of Lt-Col Bromley-Davenport The regiment assembled with the North Midland Mounted Brigade (NMMB) and then went with it to its war station at Diss in Norfolk, where it came under 1st Mounted Division.