[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cobra Verde (band)

hering back, compressing it all into a weighty chunk of glittering pop-rock smite to be hurdled at whoever needs a knock on the head.

In September 2014, Cobra Verde announced on cobraverde.com that they would be touring again and returning to the studio to record its next album.

Appearances
The OC

Cobra Verde recorded a version of "Waiting for a Girl Like You" for the Fox television teen drama The OC. The band also performed the song on the show, called "The Journey," which aired March 16, 2006. Cobra Verde plays a Foreigner tribute band that has been hired by Seth Cohen (Adam Brody) to perform at a birthday party for his friend Ryan Atwood (Ben McKenzie). Ryan is a Journey fan, however, which becomes the running joke of the episode. Seth tells Ryan that "he couldn't get the real Journey, so he got a Journey tribute band." As Cobra Verde begins performing "Waiting for a Girl Like You," Seth admits that he knows the band on stage is a Foreigner tribute – but that he got them, because "Journey sucks."

In a diary chronicling the event for Cleveland daily newspaper The Plain Dealer, Petkovic recalled going to wardrobe the day before the taping:

True Blood

Cobra Verde's version of "Play With Fire" (Copycat Killers, 2005) was featured on the HBO vampire drama True Blood ("Burning House of Love", which aired October 19, 2008.) The song became a favorite among True Blood fans and spawned a number of home-made vampire- and sex-themed videos on YouTube. It also appeared on the 2009 album True Blood – Music from the HBO Original Series. Pitchfork called the song "a stunning surprise, transformed into a beatnik drum circle and injected with Nick Cave-level creepiness" The Houston Press called it "sinister, there can be no doubt, never quite delivering on a horrifying end, but leaving you certain that somewhere past the end of the song someone is going to end up in a ditch."

Discography
Albums

 Viva la Muerte (Scat Records, 1994)
 Vintage Crime EP (Scat Records, 1995)
 Egomania (Scat Records, 1997)
 Nightlife (Motel Records, 1999)
 Easy Listening (MuscleTone Records, 2003)
 Copycat Killers (Scat Records, 2005)
 Haven't Slept All Year (Scat Records, 2008)
 True Blood (Elektra, 2009)

Singles

 One Step Away from Myself/Everything to You (Sub Pop; 1996)
 Leather/A Story I Can Sell (Scat; 1996)
 The Great Dominions (Carcrashh; 1996)
 Terrorist (Wabana; 1997)
 Blood on the Moon (Wabana; 1997)
 For My Woman (Get Hip; 1997)

References

External links
 
 
 

Alternative rock groups from Ohio
Indie rock musical groups from Ohio
Punk rock groups from Ohio
Musical groups from Cleveland
Musical groups established in 1992
Scat Records artists