[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Conscientious objection to military taxation

d by Canadians committed to COMT into a special account to be audited yearly by the Parliamentary Budget Officer and used exclusively for peace building purposes. Conscientious objectors would be able to register with the Canada Revenue Agency so their taxes could be diverted away from the military.

Objections
There are a number of common objections to COMT.  Some people oppose legal recognition of conscientious objection even for military service and conscription, arguing that all citizens are obliged to serve in the military when the country requires it, and that nobody should be able to expect special treatment on conscientious grounds.  This argument applies just as well or just as poorly against COMT.

Others argue that COMT would be too difficult to implement.

Another commonly raised objection is that COMT, if allowed, would establish a precedent for a general freedom for individual taxpayers to opt out of contributions for any tax-funded activity which they do not wish to support, including, for example, public education and healthcare.

Anarchists argue that to fund government at all is to fund violence, and so the only true pacifist conscientious tax objection is complete tax objection.

Objections from conscientious tax resisters

Some conscientious tax resisters have a different set of objections to COMT.  They argue that the legislative proposals that have been proposed so far that would legalize COMT actually would have the paradoxical effect of encouraging more conscientious objectors to pay for more war than before.

They point out the ease with which the government can shift money from place to place in its budget, and borrow money when funds are not available.  If a conscientious objector who had been unwilling to pay taxes started to pay into a "peace tax fund", this would only mean more money for the government to spend, and the likely result of that is more money for the military.  The Religious Freedom Peace Tax Fund Act in the United States, for instance, would give the government more tax revenue and would not change how much or how high a percentage of this money was spent on the military.

The analogy to conscientious objection is flawed, these critics say: A conscientious objector to military service does not take up arms and kill. Perhaps somebody else is drafted to do so instead, but the conscientious objector does not. A "peace tax fund" payer, on the other hand, pays just as much money as the ordinary taxpayer, but just cherishes the illusion that her dollars were peaceful ones. It would be as if the government told conscientious objectors that they had to take up arms and shoot at the enemy just like everybody else, but that they didn't have to take credit for their kills if they didn't want to.

Another objection is that to make COMT legal is to make it no longer a protest against or a confrontation with evil, but instead a compromise with it.  One Christian tax resister wrote that "worldly priorities must be objected to in word and deed. If the objecting deeds are done legally, they register little if any protest. If consciously illegal, they register an unequivocal refusal to agree with the world's values. The latter gets the attention of the state, the former does not."

See also
 National Campaign for a Peace Tax Fund
 National War Tax Resistance Coordinating Committee
 Tax resistance in the United States
 War Resisters League
 On the Duty of Civil Disobedience
 Conscience: Taxes for Peace not War

References

External links
  (peace tax fund advocates from the United Kingdom)
 
  (International NGO works for recognition of the human right to conscientious objection to military taxation)
 
 
  (includes a discussion of "hypothecation")
 

Tax resistance
Military economics
Anti-war protests
Conscientious objection
Tax law