[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Refugees in Hong Kong

e the system for considering claims into a Unified Screening Mechanism in 2014.

In the period from 2014–15, the number of asylum seeker claims has soared, rising by 70% from early 2014 to mid-2015 due to consolidation of claims for both persecution and torture under the Unified Screening Mechanism.

Unified Screening Mechanism
Since 2014, the system for consideration of asylum and torture claims in Hong Kong is implemented under the common umbrella of the Unified Screening Mechanism and administrated by the Department of Immigration. By commencing this mechanism UNHCR has ceased the screening of asylum claims under its mandate in Hong Kong  and the two processes are no longer to be handled separately by the UNHCR considering asylum seekers who claimed risk of persecution and the Hong Kong government assessing claims of torture risk. Rejection of claims made by the department is subject to appeal before Hong Kong courts. Whereas in other countries successful applications result in lawful residence, successful applications in Hong Kong mean only that people will not be returned to their countries of origin (non-refoulement). They are not given any form of lawful residence and can only apply for six-month permits to work, granted at the discretion of the Director of Immigration.

Process abuse
The official government position as stated by an Immigration Department spokesperson in 2012 is Hong Kong has a "long-established policy of not granting asylum and we do not admit individuals seeking refugee status" citing fears that asylum seekers would abuse the system given the prosperity of the city's economy and liberal visa policy.

The rate of success of torture claims is extremely low. By 2013, the Torture Claim Assessment Section by the Immigration Department assessed 4532 claims, of which only 12 were sustained as substantiated. As of June 2019 172 of 21,553 claims were substantiated. This 0.8 substantiation rate extremely low compared to rates of 25-62% per cent in other developed jurisdictions. There have been complaints about the competency of decision making after reports of judges relying on Wikipedia for information about the claimant's country of origin, and  refusing to adjourn proceedings even when the claimant was suffering from pregnancy-induced pain. The 2013 Annual Report of the Immigration Department notes that most torture claims are filed after either the claimant has been arrested for contravening Hong Kong law, notified of their removal from Hong Kong, or has had their claim for refugee status rejected by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

The South China Morning Post has noted that some asylum seekers are motivated to make claims to illegally work in Hong Kong for years, which is the length of time it can take to process claims.

Demographics
As of September 2017, there are about 14,000 asylum seekers awaiting determination of their claims. Over half of the asylum seekers are from the following three South Asian countries: Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh, with nearly a third from Southeast Asia and 10% from Africa.

Asylum seekers live in low cost housing due to the basic level of rental subsidy provided by the Hong Kong government and extremely high cost of rent in the city. The monthly rent allowance per adult in June 2019 being $1,500 HKD (US$190), and a food budget in the form of food vouchers of $40HKD a day. The centrally located Chungking Mansions is a popular living quarter for asylum seekers who find budget accommodation in the 15 floor residential block that is home also to foreign wholesale goods traders and backpackers. Outside of the city center, asylum seekers also live in the rural villages of Hong Kong where cheaper accommodation is found. In some reporting cases having to live in converted pig and chicken shacks.

Cost and assistance
The total cost of assistance to asylum seekers in the 2013–14 fiscal year was HK$450 million (about US$60 million). The government provides a $1,500HKD (US$190) a month rental subsidy, food and emergency medical care to asylum seekers who are not allowed to work while claims are considered. Food coupons worth $1200HKD are provided every month, although the remittances are tiny considering the extremely high cost of living in the city. Publicly funded legal representation is provided for asylum seekers that are unable to afford hiring a lawyer. Although with the very low acceptance rate of legal aid applications most asylum seekers are forced to represent themselves unless they can persuade the very over stretched legal organisations such as Justice Centre Hong Kong and lawyers willing to carry out pro-bono legal assistance.