[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# São Bartolomeu de Messines

rtholomew, the saint to whom the faithful should pray. Along the hills of the town, there are four other religious sites worth mentioning: the Ermida de Nossa Senhora da Saúde, the Ermida de São Pedro, the Ermida de São Sebastião and the Ermida de Sant'Ana, all with admirable red and white facades. 

Nearby, next to the church, we also find the Casa Museu João de Deus, currently a museum, the place where the poet and pedagogue João de Deus lived. Today it functions as an open space for culture, but also as a place of homage and repository of memory of a figure that greatly marks not only this town, but also the country. The Costume and Traditions Museum displays the role of the work in the fields and on the land and its preponderance in the village economy, mainly associated to the production and commercialization of nuts, olive oil and also linked to pastoralism. João de Deus de Nogueira Ramos, mentioned above, is one of the unavoidable names, linked to São Bartolomeu de Messines. Considered the poet of love and "the most original of his time" by Antero de Quental, his path is inseparable from his lyrical work, but also with equal, or even greater importance, to his path as an educator and pedagogue. João de Deus not only dreamed of seeing his country able to read and write, but he also dedicated part of his life to make this dream come true through his literacy campaigns. A pioneer in the creation of a revolutionary methodology for teaching reading, his book he called "Cartilha Maternal", published in 1876, was translated into several languages, and is still considered current in many of its aspects. A son of this place, João de Deus is still today a source of pride in the land of his birth. Messines' main claim to fame is indeed being the birthplace of one of Portugal's most famous poets, João de Deus, who was born in São Bartolomeu de Messines and resided there in the 19th century. His famous "Cartilha Maternal" was used to teach Portuguese language during both the 19th and 20th centuries.

Geography
It is a typical small Portuguese town, situated in the rising hills approximately 20 kilometres north of Albufeira, a city in the coast, and 16 kilometers southeast of São Marcos da Serra, a village in the Algarvean mountain range. The city of Silves, the seat of the municipality, is about 18 kilometers to southwest by road. The population of the civil parish of São Bartolomeu de Messines in 2011 was 8,430, in an area of 239.87 km2.

Population

Economy

The economy of São Bartolomeu de Messines revolves around agriculture, forestry, retail, local government and some light industry. There is a large market held on the outskirts of the town, by the bus station, every last Monday of the month, and a flea market every second Saturday of the month. The biggest supermarket in the town is an Intermarché.

Transportation
The town is well served by both bus and train, with direct links to Faro, Lisbon and Spain by both rail and motorway. The toll-free IC1 Lisbon road also passes through the town too. It is about 50 kilometres from Faro Airport by road.

Notable people
João de Deus Ramos (March 8, 1830 – January 11, 1896), better known as João de Deus, a Portuguese poet who turned his attention to Portuguese educational problems and wrote the famous didactic book Cartilha Maternal (1876), used to teach Portuguese language during both the 19th and 20th centuries across the country.
Maria Alves da Silva Cavaco Silva (born 19 March 1938), wife of Aníbal Cavaco Silva, the 19th President of the Portuguese Republic and, as such, the First Lady of Portugal from 2006 until 2016.
Remexido or Remechido, the nickname of José Joaquim de Sousa Reis (Estômbar, 19 October 1796 – Faro, 2 August 1838), a civil servant and wealthy land tenant who became a notorious guerrilla leader of the Algarve in Portugal, defending the rights of king Miguel to the Portuguese throne and the antiliberal absolute monarchy in the Kingdom of Portugal.

References

Freguesias of Silves, Portugal