[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Federal Circuit Court of Australia

The Federal Circuit Court deals with 95 per cent of all migration applications that are filed in the federal courts. In addition, the Court deals with a significant number of industrial law and human rights matters.

The Federal Circuit Court's general federal law jurisdiction covers the following:

Administrative law
The Court has original jurisdiction under the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth). The Court, on remittal from the Federal Court, hears appeals from the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.

Admiralty
 In personam actions (claims against a specific person or company) such as freight claims and seafarer's wages. 
 In rem actions remitted by the Federal Circuit Court of Australia and state Supreme Courts.

Bankruptcy
All civil claims and matters under the Bankruptcy Act 1966, except those requiring jury trials. The vast majority of bankruptcy court cases in Australia are heard by The Federal Circuit Court (92% in 2004–5).

Consumer law (Trade practices)
The Court has civil jurisdiction with respect to claims under the following provisions of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (formerly known as the  Trade Practices Act 1974):
 Section 46 (Misuse of Market Power)
 Section IVB (Industry Codes)
 Part XI (Application of the Australian Consumer Law as a law of the Commonwealth), and
 Schedule 2 (Australian Consumer Law).

The Court can provide injunctive relief and award damages of up to $750 000. The Court also has civil jurisdiction with respect to claims under the National Consumer Credit Protection Act 2009. 
There is provision in certain proceedings for a litigant to elect that an application for compensation be dealt with as a small claims proceeding.

This jurisdiction includes hearing matters relating to (but not limited to) unfair trade practices, product safety and information matters, consumer protection matters, pyramid selling, and importation and manufacture of defective goods.

Human Rights
Federal unlawful discrimination  matters under the Australian Human Rights Commissions Act 1986 relating to complaints under the:
 Age Discrimination Act 2004
 Disability Discrimination Act 1992
 Racial Discrimination Act 1974, and
 Sex Discrimination Act 1984.

The Court has concurrent jurisdiction with the Federal Court of Australia to hear and determine complaints of unlawful discrimination based on sex, age, race and disability. Its power to grant relief is wide – it may, for example, grant unlimited damages.

Industrial law
The court has concurrent jurisdiction with the Federal Court for matters under the:
 Fair Work Act 2009
 Fair Work (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2009 , and
 the Fair Work Act 2009 confers small claims jurisdiction on the Court for various matters if the compensation is not more than $20 000.

The Court also has jurisdiction in relation to certain matters under the Independent Contractors Act 2006. This jurisdiction is exercised by the Court's Fair Work Division.

Intellectual property
 Copyright – The Court may hear civil claims and matters, under parts V, VAA, IX and Section 248J of the Copyright Act 1968 such as claims for injunctions and damages for breach of copyright.
 Trade Mark/Design – From 15 April 2013, the Federal Circuit Court will have certain jurisdiction under the Trade Marks Act 1995 and the Designs Act 2003. The jurisdiction is comparable to that exercised by the Federal Court except that it will not be able to hear an appeal from another court.

Migration
Reform in 2005 limited first instance jurisdiction to the Federal Circuit Court and the High Court to review administrative decisions made by the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs, the Refugee Review Tribunal and the Migration Review Tribunal. The Court does not have jurisdiction to undertake a merits review of these types of decisions.

Privacy
Enforcing determinations of the Privacy Commissioner and private sector adjudicators under the Privacy Act 1988.

Chief Judges 
The Court has a Chief Judge (previously known as the Chief Federal Magistrate when the Court was called the Federal Magistrates Court).

Only three people have served as Chief Judge or Chief Federal Magistrate. All three have subsequently (or concurrently) held the office of Chief Justice of the Family Court of Australia. They are:
 Diana Bryant (2000–04)
 John Pascoe (2004–17)
 Will Alstergren (2017–present) (who also holds the position of Chief Justice of the Family Court of Australia since 10 December 2018.)

List of Federal Circuit Court Judges
, the judges of the Court were:

Former judges include folk singer turned lawyer and judge, Judy Small, who served on the Court between 2014 and 2020, and Barbara Baker, now Governor of Tasmania, who served on the Court from 2008 to 2021.

Federal Circuit Court judges are assisted by Associates and Deputy Associates, many of whom are qualified lawyers.