[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sergey Kamenev

to suppress the uprising in Karelia (went personally to the theater of military operations). He led the fight against Basmachis, while directly in Turkestan. In the course of this struggle, Enver Pasha, who tried to resist the Bolsheviks under the slogans of Pan-Islamism, was eliminated.

Assessment

An important assessment of Kamenev was given by War Commissar Leon Trotsky: 
It is difficult to say which of the two colonels (Vatsetis and Kamenev) was more talented. Both possessed undoubted strategic qualities, both had experience of a great war, both were distinguished by an optimistic temperament, without which it is impossible to command. Vatsetis was more stubborn, capricious, and undoubtedly succumbed to the influence of elements hostile to the revolution. Kamenev was incomparably easier and easily succumbed to the influence of the Communists who worked with him ... Kamenev was undoubtedly a capable commander, with strategic imagination and ability to take risks. He lacked depth and firmness.
In general, Kamenev enjoyed the trust of Lenin. It was under Kamenev that the Red Army overcame all its enemies and emerged victorious from the Civil War. He was an active supporter of offensive strategy as the only possible way of conducting military operations in the Civil War. A major military administrator, due to the gravity of the conditions of the Civil War, he was forced to behave with extreme caution in relation to the party leadership, to carry favor with the party elite.

Awards

For his activities during the Civil War, Kamenev was awarded the Order of the Red Banner. He had more rare awards, testifying to his special services to Soviet Russia. So, in April 1920, Kamenev was awarded the Golden Weapon of Honor (saber) from the Central Executive Committee for victories on the Eastern Front, and in January 1921 received a Mauser pistol of honor with a sign of the Order of the Red Banner on the handle.

In the summer of 1922, Kamenev received the Order of the Red Star of the 1st degree of the Bukhara People's Soviet Republic for organizing the struggle against Enver Pasha, and in September 1922 he decorated his chest with the military order of the Red Banner of the Khorezm autonomous Soviet republic for "helping the Khorezm working people in their struggle for liberation and for his merits in the struggle against the enemies of the working people of the whole world." Along with Semyon Budyonny, he was the most decorated Red officer of the Civil War.

Later life

After the Civil War, Kamenev continued to work to strengthen the Red Army. In his military-scientific works and lectures he rethought the experience of the First World War and the Civil War. Participated in the development of new regulations for the Red Army, after the elimination of the post of commander in chief in March 1924, he served as inspector of the Red Army, Chief of Staff of the Red Army, Deputy Commissar for Military and Naval Affairs and Chairman of the Frunze Military Academy. From 1934–36 he was Head of the Air Defense Directorate of the Red Army. In this last position, Kamenev made a significant contribution to improving the country's defense capability, with his air defense troops being re-equipped with new equipment. Kamenev was one of the founders of the famous Osoaviakhim (the Society for the Promotion of Defense, Aviation and Chemical Construction – the Soviet voluntary public organization engaged in supporting the army and the military industry), and contributed to the organization of the development of the Arctic as chairman of the government's Arctic Commission. Consisted as the chairman of the commission on large flights, organized by Osoaviakhim. The last military rank of Kamenev in the Imperial Army was the rank of colonel, in the Red Army – Komandarm 1st rank (General of the Army).

Kamenev joined the Party only in 1930 and, in general, his fate in the Soviet era was successful, unlike dozens of his colleagues. Kamenev died as a result of a heart attack before he himself could fall victim to the Great Purge and he did not go through the slander, humiliation and betrayal that so many of his comrades did. Kamenev's ashes were buried in the Kremlin Wall Necropolis. Nevertheless, posthumously – from 1937 until Joseph Stalin's death – Kamenev was counted among the "enemies of the people", and his name and works for several decades turned out to be forgotten. Subsequently, the name of Kamenev was rehabilitated.