[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Embraer/FMA CBA 123 Vector

nics suppliers increased their prices and demanded advance payments due to Embraer's financial difficulties at the time, which caused the aircraft price to become more expensive.

The third prototype (LV-X134), to be built by FMA, was stopped at 80% (est.) of building and now is stored in Argentina.

The CBA 123 Vector project, which cost US$300 million, was therefore cancelled, with only two prototypes built. Although a failure, the project gave Embraer maturity to work with new technologies, which led to the development of the successful Embraer ERJ 145 family of jets. Upon the return of founder Ozires Silva as Embraer's leader in 1992, he faced the choice of whether to continue with the CBA 123 or the ERJ 145. Silva initially wanted to postpone the ERJ 145 in favor of certifying the CBA 123, which was in a more advanced state of development, but the company's U.S. representatives convinced him to proceed instead with the ERJ 145 based on the regional jet segment's better market outlook. The rear-engined ERJ 145 had the same Brasilia-derived fuselage cross-section as the CBA 123, so the ERJ 145 was basically a stretch of the CBA 123 with turbofans instead of turboprops. Much of the CBA 123 development work fed into the development of the ERJ 145.

Some of these new technologies on the CBA 123 were described in the Federal Aviation Administration response to a request for certification of the aircraft: "This airplane incorporates a number of novel or unusual design features, such as digital avionics including, but not necessarily limited to, an electronic flight instrument system (EFIS), attitude and heading reference system (AHRS), engine indication and crew alerting system (EICAS), and full authority digital engine control (FADEC), which are vulnerable to lightning and high-intensity radiated fields (HIRF) external to the airplane. In addition to these novel or unusual design features, the Model CBA-123 also incorporates other unrelated novel or unusual design features. Those features will be the subject of separate notices of proposed special conditions".

Design
The aircraft was designed as a high-technology turboprop aircraft, to be fully certified under United States FAR 25. It was powered by two Garrett TPF351 turboprop engines (more powerful derivatives of Garrett's popular TPE331) mounted on pylons on the rear fuselage and driving six-bladed pusher configuration scimitar propellers, which spun on a plane of rotation that was  behind the nearest row of seats. The engine location allowed a smaller wing to be used, giving a higher cruise speed, while also improving passenger comfort. Noise was estimated to be an average volume of 74–76 decibels within the cabin during cruise, and the cooperative claimed the aircraft was noticeably quieter than a Boeing 737-300. The engines used alternative gearbox modules, so the propellers could be set up to rotate in either direction to support the counter-rotating propeller configuration of the CBA 123. The initial configuration had the port propeller turning clockwise, while the starboard propeller turned counterclockwise. Rotational speed of the Hartzell HC-E6A-5 propellers was up to 1,700 rpm, and at cruise the propellers turned at 1,445 rpm. Propeller diameter was .

The aircraft design had wings with supercritical airfoils, used a FADEC system for engine control, plus EICAS and EFIS avionics systems. Fastest cruise speed was about  at an altitude of around . Most economical cruise altitude was at .

Aircraft on display
To celebrate its 40th anniversary, Embraer restored its two prototype CBA 123 aircraft and donated them to Brazilian aviation museums. The work began in early 2008 and was completed in May 2009. The aircraft are on public display at the following locations:

 First prototype (registration number PT-ZVE): Outdoor exhibit at the Brazilian Aerospace Memorial (, or MAB) in São José dos Campos.
 Second prototype (registration number PT-ZVB): Main exhibition hall at the Museu Aeroespacial in Rio de Janeiro.

In June 2013, the uncompleted FMA-built third prototype was put on outdoor display at the  of the National University of Córdoba (UNC), in Córdoba, Argentina.

Specifications

See also

References

Notes

Bibliography

 Lambert, Mark (ed.). Jane's All The World's Aircraft 1993–94. Coulsdon, UK: Jane's Data Division, 1993. .
 "South American Vector". Air International, September 1990, Vol 39 No. 5. pp. 122–128.

External links

  – Embraer's CBA-123 page
 Fábrica Argentina de Aviones (FAdeA) SA – FMA successor
 FMA CBA 123 I.A. 70 (in Spanish) – FMA chronicles and testimony from Ángel César Arreguez, published by the Ministry of Science and Technology in Córdoba province, Argentina
  (in Portuguese)
  (in Portuguese)
  – from Canal 10 Córdoba (in Spanish)
 CBA 123 Vector photos on Airliners.net.
 El proyecto argentino-brasileño del avión de pasajeros CBA-123 Vector (in Spanish) – retrieved 15 March 2019