[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Navi Pillay

1 September 2008.  Pillay says the High Commissioner is "the voice of the victim everywhere." In 2012, she was given a two-year second term. She also signed a document "BORN FREE AND EQUAL", a document on sexual orientation and gender identity in international human rights law as High Commissioner.

Pillay voiced support for a gay rights resolution in the UNHRC, which was approved in 2011. At a news conference in July 2014, she referred to Edward Snowden as a "human rights defender" and said, "I am raising right here some very important arguments that could be raised on his behalf so that these criminal proceedings are averted." In August 2014, she criticized the international community over its "paralysis" in dealing with the more than three-year old Syrian Civil War, which by 30 April 2014 had resulted in 191,369 deaths.

Awards
In 2003, Pillay received the inaugural Gruber Prize for Women's Rights.

She has been awarded honorary degrees by
 Durban University of Technology - the University based in her hometown of Durban, South Africa,
 Durham University,
 the City University of New York School of Law,
 the London School of Economics, Rhodes University,
 the University of Leuven,
 the Erasmus University Rotterdam.

In 2009, Forbes ranked her as the 64th most powerful woman in the world.

In 2009, she received the Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement presented by Awards Council member Archbishop Desmond Tutu at an awards ceremony at St. George's Cathedral in Cape Town, South Africa.

Controversies
Her criticism of the Sri Lankan government, in alleging human rights violations and atrocities committed by them against Tamil civilians at the end of the Sri Lankan civil war, has led the government and its supporters to apportion her own Tamil descent as the only reason for her criticism, a claim she strongly denies.

In a speech on 8 June 2012, Pillay blacklisted the provincial government of Quebec in Canada for human rights violations concerning the rights to peaceful protest and free expression for its student protesters, specifically in Canada. The reaction from human rights NGOs was mixed. Quebec official sources criticised Pillay for comparing Quebec with areas known to have worse records.

Pillay's call in 2012 for the suspension of sanctions against the Mugabe regime in Zimbabwe was criticised by Zimbabwean civil society groups who accused the Zimbabwean government of manipulating Pillay to overlook the human rights violations committed by the government.

Her contribution to the 2001 Durban Conference on racism, the Goldstone report, and her steering of the UN Human Rights Council have been criticized as unjust by The Jerusalem Post. Pillay's claim that Israel was engaged in the "apparent targeting of …children playing", on 23 July 2014, a charge previously denied by IDF spokesmen, has been described by Anne Bayefsky as "incitement to hate". After reviewing heavy US contribution to the Iron Dome program, her call for better defence for Gaza, "No such protection has been provided to Gazans against the shelling" has been described by one critic in Tablet magazine as a "hilariously delicious absurdity". On 25 July 2014, the United States Congress published a letter addressed to Pillay by over 100 members in which the signatories asserted that the Human Rights Council "cannot be taken seriously as a human rights organisation" over their handling of the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict.

See also 
 First women lawyers around the world

References 

People from Durban
South African people of Tamil descent
South African people of Indian descent
International Criminal Court judges
South African women's rights activists
Harvard Law School alumni
Presidents of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda
United Nations High Commissioners for Human Rights
1941 births
Living people
South African women judges
Under-Secretaries-General of the United Nations
South African judges of United Nations courts and tribunals
South African judges of international courts and tribunals
Commanders Crosses of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany