[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ceded lands

d 2019, relying on the definition of revenue historically agreed to by OHA and the state, data collected from agency reporting, and an analysis of underreported receipts, proposed legislation declared that the amount of revenue OHA should receive annually is closer to $35 million, not $15.1 million.

Litigation involving the sale and transfer of trust lands
After the U.S. Congress passed the landmark Apology Resolution in 1993, the Hawaii State Legislature passed similar legislation acknowledging that many Native Hawaiians view the 1893 overthrow as illegal and that lands taken without their consent should be returned. OHA and four individual plaintiffs filed suit to challenge a pending transfer of ceded lands and further enjoin the state from selling any other ceded lands. In January 2008, the Hawaiʻi Supreme Court ruled in favor of OHA and the individual plaintiffs. The Court also determined that monetary payments would not suffice because of Hawaiians' intimate cultural and spiritual connection with the lands. The Court acknowledged: "(1) the cultural importance of the land to native Hawaiians, (2) that the ceded lands were illegally taken from the native Hawaiian monarchy, (3) that future reconciliation between the state and the native Hawaiian people is contemplated, and, (4) once any ceded lands are alienated from the public lands trust, they will be gone forever."

In 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed, overturning the portion of the decision based on federal law and remanding the case to the Hawaiʻi Supreme Court to reconsider its decision based on state law. The majority of the suit was subsequently settled out of court, and the Hawaiʻi Supreme Court dismissed the remaining, non-settled claims as unripe.

In 2011, a law was passed requiring a two-thirds majority approval in the Legislature for any permanent alienation of ceded lands. In 2014, a law was passed requiring a simple majority approval for the proposed exchange of public lands for private lands.

Litigation involving the state's management of trust lands
One major concern of Native Hawaiians and other Hawaiʻi residents has been the U.S. military’s use of large areas of trust land and its misuse of the land. In August 2019, the Hawaiʻi Supreme Court published Ching v. Case, ruling that the state has an affirmative duty to preserve and protect ceded lands. The case involved the state’s lease of approximately  to the U.S. military at Pōhakuloa on Hawaiʻi Island. The court concluded that an essential part of the state’s duty is an obligation to reasonably monitor a third party’s use of the property. 

Mauna Kea is also part of the corpus of Crown and Government Lands. Self-described "protectors" of the mountain maintain that these lands were illegally seized, and the United States and State of Hawaiʻi therefore do not have rightful jurisdiction, and have asserted a number of legal claims to this effect.

See also
 Ahupuaʻa
 Great Māhele
 Hawaiian sovereignty movement
 Hawaiian home land
 Kuleana rights

References

Indigenous land rights in Hawaii
Native Hawaiian history
Politics of Hawaii
Pre-statehood history of Hawaii
Separatism in the United States
Territorial evolution of the United States