[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Civil Wars: A Tree Is Best Measured When It Is Down

just measure." But Eric Ristad saw the piece as being hermetic to the point of opacity, of being "private theater with a vengeance; it is without content, and immune from criticism. [...] The piece just exists, and we react to it individually, in much the same way we might react to a drop of water."

Rome section
The Rome section includes all of Act V. It is a full operatic setting by Philip Glass, and Wilson collaborated with Maita di Niscemi on the text, which is in Latin, Italian, and English. The Rome section premiered in March 1984 at the Teatro dell'Opera di Roma, conducted by Marcello Panni, with Luigi Petroni as Garibaldi.

The act is divided into a prologue and two scenes. In the prologue, the Earth Mother and a Snow Owl duet before being joined by Abraham Lincoln in a prayer for peace. In Scene A, Giuseppe Garibaldi (who fought for the unification of Italy) sings while his soldiers face off against a group of Hopi dancers. Scene B is dominated by two spoken narrations: the first by Robert E. Lee (who spins weightlessly as if in outer space as he speaks), and the second by the grieving, mentally ill Mary Todd Lincoln. Throughout, an octet of characters from Greek mythology comments with excerpts from Hercules Furens and Hercules Oetaeus by Seneca the Younger.

Philip Glass began composing the music for the Rome section late in the creative process, after Robert Wilson had already planned and videotaped a complete silent version of the drama. Glass's role was similar to that of a film composer, tailoring his music to the rhythm of the action rather than imposing his own tempo. Glass would later repeat this process with La Belle et la Bête, an opera intended to be performed as a synchronized soundtrack to showings of Jean Cocteau's classic film.

The Rome section was documented by the American Composers Orchestra in 1999 under the influence of Dennis Russell Davies. The cast was as follows: Robert Wilson as General Lee, Giuseppe Sabbatini as Garibaldi, Laurie Anderson as the Young Mrs. Lincoln, Denyce Graves as the older Mrs. Lincoln and the Earth Mother, Zheng Zhou as Abraham Lincoln, Sondra Radvanovsky as the Snow Owl and Alcmene, and Stephen Morscheck as Hercules. The Morgan State University Choir sang under the direction of Dr. Nathan Carter.

Rotterdam section
This section's music was composed by Nicolas Economou, and it premiered in 1983. The production's design echoed the look of landscapes of The Netherlands, and Robert Wilson's text, a Dutch-language adaptation of “Jack and the Beanstalk”, contained such characters and images as Mata Hari, Queen Wilhelmina, William the Silent, cabbages, tulips, and a solitary Union Army soldier in a nonspeaking part. The original Rotterdam production featured video art by Jaap Drupsteen.

Marseille section
Gavin Bryars was a principal composer for this section, and a principal writer was Lebanese poet Etel Adnan, though the collage-like libretto incorporated a diverse collection of texts. Bryars set a speech by Marie Curie, "I am among those who believe that science has a great beauty", a poem by Pope Leo XIII on the then-new art of photography, and a speech by an imaginary scientist in Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.

The work was not completed or publicly performed, but Bryars incorporated a number of its arias into the later works Effarene and On Photography.

References

1984 operas
1984 Summer Olympics
Multiple-language operas
Operas
Operas by multiple composers
Operas by Philip Glass
Postmodern plays
Unfinished operas
Operas in Latin