[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

mber – A priest in Curragheen, County Kerry, alerts the local Free State garrison to the presence of the local Anti-Treaty guerrilla column at Midnight Mass. 22 of them are captured when National Army troops raid the church.
25 December – Christmas Day – Joseph MacDonagh, TD, who had been deputy Minister for Labour to Countess Markiewicz, brother of Proclamation of the Irish Republic signatory and 1916 leader Thomas MacDonagh, dies on hunger strike in hospital in Eccles Street, having been hastily removed there when it became clear that his appendix had ruptured and peritonitis had resulted.
27 December – The railway station in Ballina is attacked by a sniper.
28 December – Republican Francis Lawlor is abducted by Free State forces in Dublin, killed and his body dumped at Orwell Road, Rathgar. An anti-Treaty IRA Volunteer (Michael William Morris) is accidentally killed in County Wexford, monument erected Kyle, County Wexford, buried in Crossabeg cemetery, County Wexford.
29 December – Two Anti-Treaty men are executed by the Free State in Kilkenny.
A Free State foot patrol is ambushed by an IRA column near Castlegregory, County Kerry. Two soldiers are killed and two wounded. Their post in the village is burned. The National Army in Tralee threaten to execute four Republican prisoners in reprisal but after a legal appeal their sentence is commuted to penal servitude
There is a bomb planted at CID headquarters at Oriel House, Dublin. One Free State soldier is killed and two wounded in the explosion. Two civilians are also wounded.

January 1923
1 January – An anti-Treaty IRA column is ambushed by National Army troops at Kyle, County Wexford. One IRA fighter is killed and three wounded. One Free State soldier is also wounded in the action.
3 January – 
A National Army patrol is ambushed near Bangor Erris, County Mayo. One Soldier is injured and 14 Irregulars are captured, each in possession of a rifle.
4 January – A column of 65 Anti-Treaty fighters from Cork and Kerry IRA units, under Tom Barry, attacks Millstreet, County Cork, under cover of darkness. They use 12 machine guns and take three National Army posts in the town, taking 39 prisoners and capturing one Lewis gun and 35 rifles. However they fail to take the main post in the Town Hall, held by 23 Free State soldiers. They withdraw after several hours – one party to Ballyvourney in County Cork and the other to the Pap mountains in County Kerry. Two Free State soldiers are killed and several more wounded. The National Army reports six Anti-Treaty fatalities and 19 wounded but the Republicans admit to only three wounded.
6 January – Skirmish at Ballyconnell on the County Cavan–Fermanagh border, Anti-Treaty IRA captain Michael Cull killed by plain clothes Free State officer while raiding a hardware shop.
In the Dundalk area two killings are reported. the body of a man John Phelan is found in Castlebellingham, with the notice 'Convicted spy, IRA' pinned on him, he had pointed out houses of antii-Treatyites to Free State forces which were subsequently burnt. In Dundalk itself, a civilian Hugh O'Donnell of Belfast, reported to be 'of Republican sympathies' is shot dead by unknown gunmen.
8 January – Four Republican prisoners are executed in Dublin. One National Army soldier is also shot for "treachery" for complicity in an Anti-Treaty ambush of Free State troops at Leixlip.
9 January – Anti-Treaty IRA men burn the home of Free State Senator John Philip Bagwell at Marfield, Clonmel, County Tipperary, including the extensive library built up by his father, historian Richard Bagwell.
10 January – 
Two Anti-Treaty IRA officers are killed in a skirmish with Free State troops near Spelsherstown, County Wexford.
The National Army barracks in Crossmolina is attacked by a sniper. Several private houses are pierced by bullets. There are no casualties.
11 January – 40 Republicans burn the railway station in Sligo town, destroying it and badly damaging seven engines and forty carriages. The Great Southern and Western Railway Company releases a report detailing the damage Anti-Treaty forces have caused to their property over the previous six months; 375 lines damaged, 42 engines derailed, 51 over-bridges and 207 under-bridges destroyed, 83 signal cabins and 13 other buildings destroyed. In the same month, Republicans destroy the railway stations at Ballybunnion and Listowel.
A Free State soldier is killed in an attack on Dowra barracks, County Cavan.
13 January – Three Republican prisoners are executed in Dundalk. A crowd gathers outside the jail to say the rosary but is dispersed when Free State troops open fire on them.
15 January – Five Anti-Treaty IRA men are executed by the Free State. Four are shot in Roscrea, County Tipperary, one in Carlow.
16 January – Two Republican fighters are killed in a skirmish in County Tipperary.
17 January – 
Three National Army soldiers are killed in action 
In County Mayo, a National Army patrol is attacked as it returns from Kiltimagh