[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Marcoussis

adjoining park now has the National Center of Rugby in its northern section. In the southern section, the park is managed by the general council of Essonne and has:
 The refrigerator which was used to store the ice recovered from nearby waters
 An arched source and;
 The remains of a hydraulic ram.

Old Bailiwick
This building is now used as leisure centre, it was built in the last quarter of the 18th century. Municipal property, indexed but not protected by the historic buildings decree.

Old Commandry of the Deluge
Ferme générale of the Deluge, including the vestiges of a vault dedicated to John the Baptist, dating from the 12th century and partially rebuilt in the fourteenth and seventeenth centuries. It is the only vestige of the time when it belonged to the Order of the Templars, before it passed into the hands of the Order of Malta, it was then joined together in Saint-Jean-de-Latran in Paris. Private property, it is listed by the historic buildings decree but not protected.

Castles and other residences
 House of the King: It was built under the reign of Louis XV to be used for royal hunts. It is now a private property, partially classified as a historic building by a decree of 26 November 1968 (protection of façades and roofs).
 Château du Bel-Ebat: Located on the plate, it was rebuilt in the 19th century, it is a private residence.
 Château of the Round Oak: Property of the Ministry for the Navy since 1946, it housed a radar research laboratory. Amongst other things the research covered applications on the development of the Nançay radio telescope.
 Castle of the Deluge: Located behind the old commandery, it was built in 1857; now private property.
 Field of Brambles: located more than  from the centre of the village, it belongs to the commune of Bourg-la-Reine, which transformed it into a holiday centre, it is now abandoned.
 Ferme de l'Hôtel-Dieu: remarkable for its frame "to Philibert Delorme" dating from the beginning of the 19th century, it is located in rue de Voltaire in the Gue district.

Twin towns
  - Waldsassen town of 7,483 inhabitants located in Bavaria (Germany) - twinned since 1970.
  - Bérégadougou, village of 8,000 inhabitants located in the province of Comoé in the south of Burkina Faso (Africa) - twinned since 1998.
  - Mariánské Lázně or Marianské Lazné (ex Marienbad in German), in Czech Republic, town of 14,300 inhabitants was twinned to Marcoussis by a pact of international friendship in 1995 which led to an oath of twinning in May 2005 and the official signature of twinning on 23 September 2006.
  - Newton Stewart - Newton stewart is paired with Marcoussis since 2013.

Tour de France
In 2007, Marcoussis was the start of the final stage of the Tour de France. The stage was  long and finished with eight laps of the traditional circuit around the Champs-Élysées.

See also
Communes of the Essonne department
Marmousets

References

External links

 Town's official website 
 Website on the Baume Pluvine family, the last owners of the Château de Montagu and the house ofSaint-Antoine
 Some photos from the Bineau carnival in 2007
 Le déluge ordre hospitalier

Mayors of Essonne Association 

Communes of Essonne