[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Indonesian passport

An Indonesian passport () is a travel document issued by the Government of Indonesia to Indonesian citizens residing in Indonesia or overseas. The main governing body with regards to the issuance of such passport(s), possession(s), withdrawal and related matters is the Directorate General of Immigration () under the Ministry of Law and Human Rights (). Indonesia does not recognize multiple citizenship for its citizens and such citizens will automatically lose their Indonesian citizenship if another citizenship is acquired voluntarily. Special exceptions allow newly born citizens to hold dual nationalities (including Indonesian) until his/her eighteenth birthday after which a choice of either nationalities should be decided. The latest Indonesian passport has different national birds and sceneries on each page.

The latest version of the Indonesian passport was first announced on 30 October 2014. Visible revisions include:
 Cover colour: Prior to 30 October 2014, ordinary Indonesian passports were issued with a dark green cover while the latest one is turquoise green ().
 Coat of arms: The coat of arms is now centered and significantly larger than older editions
 Translation (cover only): Only 'passport' appears bilingually (Indonesian above and English below) while the phrase 'Republik Indonesia' is not translated to 'Republic of Indonesia'.

The Directorate General of Immigrattion announced that passports with 10 year validity are available for Indonesian citizens aged 17 or above starting 12 October 2022.

Types

Ordinary passports

According to Government Regulation No. 31/2013 (), ordinary passports consists of electronic and non-electronic versions.

Electronic passport 

Effective from 26 January 2011, the Directorate General of Immigration introduced ordinary electronic passports (e-passport) for Indonesian citizens. The initial launch quota was set at 10,000 copies for the year 2011. Biometric passports were initially available only in three immigration offices: West Jakarta, Soekarno–Hatta, and Central Jakarta.

In 2011, approximately 12,000 Indonesian citizens obtained biometric passports and starting from the January 25, 2012, the Indonesian Immigration Authority launched computerized immigration gates at Soekarno–Hatta International Airport, reducing queue time for biometric passport holders as they no longer need to check in manually at the immigration counter. The service is available for both arriving and departing passengers. The government plans to install computerized gates in airports throughout the country.

As of 2022, Indonesian e-passports can now be obtained in 52 Immigration offices all across Indonesia. 

Indonesian e-passport holders can enjoy visa-free travel to Japan for up to 15 days per stay (albeit still requiring a visa waiver endorsement certificate to be issued at a Japanese embassy / consulate or online prior to travel). Non-electronic passport holders do not enjoy this privilege and must apply for a visa whenever they want to travel to Japan. 

Visa-free privileges of other countries for Indonesian passport holders are currently valid for both passport types.

According to Government Regulation No.28/2019, all Indonesian passports (both normal and biometric) now come with 48 pages. All types of Passports that only had 24 pages have been discontinued.

As of May 2023, there are two types of ordinary electronic passports;  the first is an e-passport that has a laminate biodata sheet and has biometric chips embedded within the back cover of the passports. The second is an e-passport that comes with a chip embedded in the biometric data sheet made of polycarbonate. The polycarbonate e-passports are currently only issued in 3 immigration offices in Jakarta and costs the same as a laminate ordinary e-passport.

Diplomatic passports ()

Issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Indonesian subject(s) who is serving as diplomat and/or government person in order to travel for diplomatic purpose(s). Such passport also covers the immediate family that would travel along with the main passport holder. Holding an Indonesian diplomatic passport does not guarantee a 'diplomatic immunity' to its bearer  although those who gain 'diplomatic immunity' might be holding such passport. Holding such passport does not also entitle the bearer to travel with the passport for non-diplomatic mission. Appropriate 'non-diplomatic' visa or entry clearance should be obtained prior to travel to the destined country. The latest version of the Indonesian diplomatic passport is issued in a black colored-cover.

On 19 August 2021, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched  a new version of the diplomatic e-passport, which complies with the Document 9303 ICAO standard.

Service passports ()