[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Crows and Sparrows

itizens had to purchase gold from the KMT government which is depicted in the scene where Xiao purchases gold bars.

Reception
The film was fairly popular upon release. A revised version premiered in early 1950 and was shown 577 times in Shanghai that year, netting an audience of 287,000.

Accolades

The Influence of Chairman Mao and Premier Zhou 
Crows and Sparrows received a second prize from the Ministry of Culture of New China in 1956. Zhou Enlai, the Premier at the time, expressed his dissatisfaction with the result. “These people put their lives on the line and made such a great film,” he says, continuing: “Why did they get only the second prize?”. Mao Zedong expressed a similar dissatisfaction with the film's poor reception, believing it deserved a higher rating. This is unsurprising, given that Crows and Sparrows was made by a Communist Party-influenced studio and bore little resemblance to films like Sun Yu's The Life of Wu Xun (1951), which Mao harshly denounced for "trying to alter the brains of intellectuals.” Given Mao's dominant status, the Ministry of Culture of New China re-awarded the first prize to Crows and Sparrows.

See also 
 Cinema of China
 Huabiao Awards
 Film Censorship in China
 Chinese Civil War

External links
Crows and Sparrows with English subtitles on YouTube
Chinese Film Classics online course, Module 11: Crows and Sparrows: full film with English subtitles and two video lectures, on University of British Columbia-hosted scholarly website Chinesefilmclassics.org
Complete English translation of Crows and Sparrows, and subtitled copy of film: https://u.osu.edu/mclc/online-series/crows-and-sparrows/
Crows and Sparrows from the Chinese Movie Database
 
Description and discussion questions from Ohio State University
Crows and Sparrows Analysis on YouTube

References

 "Crows and Sparrows", chapter 14 in Chinese Film Classics, 1922-1949, by Christopher Rea. New York: Columbia University Press, 2021. 
 

1940s Mandarin-language films
Chinese black-and-white films
1949 drama films
1949 films
Films set in Shanghai
Films directed by Zheng Junli
Chinese drama films