[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Due South characters

most likely not believe him.

Sergeant Buck Frobisher

Sergeant Duncan "Buck" Frobisher is a fictional character in the television series Due South. Portrayed by Leslie Nielsen, he appears in the episodes "Manhunt", "All The Queens's Horses", "Call of the Wild (pt 1)" and "Call of the Wild (pt 2)".

Frobisher is approximately  tall with grey hair and is in his late 50s or early 60s, and in season 3, in "Burning Down the House", Benton Fraser describes him as bearing an uncanny resemblance to "a certain famous Canadian comedian". He is one of #Sergeant Robert Fraser's closest friends; and like his best friend, Frobisher is a legendary sergeant in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

During their youth, Fraser and Frobisher were both in love with Caroline. Caroline ultimately chose Fraser after he made fancy shot over a rope bridge. Frobisher accepted his loss with grace.  He would later get married and have one known child, Julia, who would have a daughter of her own, Patty.

In his first appearance, in "Manhunt", Frobisher appears to be going through a mid-life crisis; after a phone call from Geiger, one of the worst felons he had ever arrested, Frobisher flees to Chicago, running from both his pursuer, Geiger, and from his own legendary reputation.  After being confronted on this by Benton Fraser, the son of his late best friend, Frobisher manages to bring in Geiger for a second time. When Geiger was taken in by the Chicago PD, Frobisher advised the Chicago police "first chance you get, shoot".

In later episodes, it is revealed that Frobisher can also see and talk to Fraser Sr.'s ghost, who first reveals himself to Frobisher in "All The Queens's Horses".

He also seems to take a lot of taxis as seen in "Manhunt". He can't drive motorcycles.

Detective Stanley Kowalski

Stanley Raymond Kowalski (aka "Ray Kowalski") is a fictional character in the television series Due South. He is a Polish-American detective with the Chicago Police Department, serving with the 27th Precinct. The character is portrayed by actor Callum Keith Rennie.

Kowalski's father was a fan of Marlon Brando; who played Stanley Kowalski in the 1951 film version of A Streetcar Named Desire; hence his name.  Kowalski however prefers to go by his middle name, Ray.  To add to the Streetcar connections, Kowalski's ex-wifethe Assistant States Attorneyis called Stella. They still care about each other, but broke up because he wanted kids and she didn't. Kowalski's family includes his parents Damian and Barbara, and a brother who is only referenced on the show's official webpage and never made an appearance on the show.

Kowalski was brought into the series at the start of Season 3. #Detective Raymond Vecchio had suddenly been sent deep undercover with the mob in Las Vegas, and to protect Ray's identity Kowalski was brought in to impersonate him until the real Vecchio returned. This meant taking on Ray's friend and unofficial partner, Mountie Benton Fraser, who was on vacation at the time of the "switch" and returned to find Kowalski at Ray's desk claiming to be Ray Vecchio. After being let into the secret, Fraser and Kowalski became true friends and partners.

Kowalski's eyesight is not the best in the world, and he needs to put on his glasses in order to use a gun with any degree of effectiveness. He prefers not to wear his glasses because he doesn't like how he looks with them, but he is an excellent shot when he does wear them.  Kowalski also likes to put the Canadian version of Smarties into his coffee and likes to dance, something he used to do with Stella. Since the divorce he has taken fancy to a few women, but nothing serious has really happened.

Kowalski owns a black Pontiac GTO that he and his father refurbished. In the episode "Easy Money", his father returns it to him and Kowalski now uses it as his car.

The series ends with Fraser and Kowalski embarking on a quest to find the Hand of Sir John Franklin.

Inspector Margaret Thatcher

Margaret Thatcher is a fictional character in the television series Due South. She is an inspector of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police who works in the American city of Chicago, Illinois.  The character is portrayed by Canadian actress Camilla Scott.