[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Maziar Bahari

ction of the Persian articles are in English. IranWire works with a number of prominent Iranian journalists including Shima Shahrabi, Aida Ghajar, Ehsan Mehrabi and Masih Alinejad. It has a partnership with Daily Beast. IranWire's initial website was designed and developed by Small Media Foundation.

Press TV vs Maziar Bahari 
After his release, Bahari launched a complaint against Iranian government's English satellite channel, Press TV, for filming and airing an interview with him under duress. In May 2011, Ofcom upheld Bahari's three complaints against Press TV. In the summary, Ofcom said Press TV's presentation of Bahari was unfair because it "omitted material facts and was placed in a context in which inferences adverse to Mr Bahari could be drawn". The media regulator also said that Press TV failed to get his consent and this "contributed to the overall unfairness to Mr Bahari in the item broadcast". Ofcom added that filming and broadcasting the interview without consent "while he was in a sensitive situation and vulnerable state was an unwarranted infringement of Mr Bahari's privacy".

Upon the release of Ofcom's findings, Press TV launched a campaign against Bahari and Ofcom. Bahari was accused of being "an MI6 contact person". Press TV's failure to pay a £100,000 fine for showing Bahari's 'confession' was connected with the revocation of Press TV's licence to broadcast in the UK, via satellite, in January 2012.

Awards and honors

 Oxfam Novib/PEN Award, nominated for an Emmy for his film

Filmography 
 Paint! No Matter What, 1999 (about artist Khosrow Hassanzadeh)
 Of Shames and Coffins (about Aids in South Africa)
 Mohammad and the Matchmaker (about an HIV+ man's search for love in Iran)
 Football, Iranian Style (about Iranian passion for soccer)
 And Along Came a Spider (about a serial killer in Iran)
 Targets: Reporters in Iraq (about post-traumatic stress disorder among journalists working in Iraq)
 Greetings from Sadr City (about life in the Baghdad suburb during the war)
 A Cult that would be an Army - Cult of the Chameleon (about the Mujaheddin Khalgh of Iran)
 The Fall of a Shah (about the history of the Iranian Revolution)
 An Iranian Odyssey (about the CIA-backed 1953 coup in Iran)
 Forced Confessions, 2012
 Rosewater, 2014 (about Bahari's 118 days of detention and torture in Iran's Evin Prison, screenwritten and directed by Jon Stewart, in which Bahari is portrayed by Gael García Bernal)
 To Light a Candle (about the persecution of Baháʼís in Iran and the Baháʼí Institute for Higher Education)
 The Cost of Discrimination, 2017
 82 Names, 2012

Then They Came for Me 

Bahari wrote a prison memoir and family history, Then They Came for Me. The book became a New York Times Best Seller and has been called "incredible" by Jon Stewart of The Daily Show who worked with Bahari on his film based on the book. Doug Saunders of The Globe and Mail called the book "Moving and, at times, very funny", and said that it "offers a number of lessons about the way Middle Eastern politics work." Leslie Scrivener of The Toronto Star explained "Then They Came for Me is a gripping story that weaves his family's history of incarceration by Iranian rulers with his own." Mother Jones magazine wrote that "Then They Came for Me is not only a fascinating, human exploration into Bahari's personal experience but it also provides insight into the shared experience of those affected by repressive governments everywhere." Kirkus Reviews praised the book for "Providing an illuminating glimpse into the security apparatus of one of the world's most repressive countries. Especially timely given recent events throughout the Middle East, this book is recommended for anyone wishing to better understand the workings of a police state."

See also
 List of foreign nationals detained in Iran

References

External links

 Author profile at Newsweek
 
 
 

Activists against antisemitism
The Daily Show
Iranian dissidents
Iranian documentary film directors
Iranian documentary film producers
Iranian journalists
Writers from Tehran
1967 births
Living people
Concordia University alumni
Iranian emigrants to Canada
Naturalized citizens of Canada
Iranian human rights activists
Canadian human rights activists
Newsweek people
Iranian memoirists
Canadian documentary film producers
Prisoners and detainees of Iran
Oxfam Novib/PEN Award winners
Canadian documentary film directors
Canadian male journalists
Inmates of Evin Prison
21st-century Canadian memoirists