[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 10th Infantry Regiment (United States)

is position allowed the 10th to regulate shipments to the front lines, and it provided a checkpoint for the Allies to control possible enemy shipments. In 1918, the 10th Infantry Regiment distributed its personnel to other regiments that fought on all fronts at the end of World War I.

World War II:

On 9 July 1944, the 10th landed at Les Dunes de Varreveille, France, and moved up the coast of Montebourg, relieving the 18th Infantry Regiment on 15 July. During this time, the 10th distinguished itself in open warfare and assaults on fortified positions; thus dubbing a new motto: "When the going gets tough for everyone else, it's just getting right for us!" Perhaps the most significant contribution the 10th gave to the Allied effort in World War II was repulsing the German counter-offensive after the Battle of the Bulge. The 10th Infantry saw heavy action across Western Europe during World War II including:

 Invasion of Normandy;
 Northern France;
 Rhineland;
 Battle of the Bulge;
 Central Europe
World War II Statistics for 10th Infantry Regiment

 Total battle casualties for the 10th in WWII: 7,124
 1,500 bloody miles, across 20 European rivers, and through the harsh winter of 1944, it had been a long hard journey, fraught with the hazards of bitter front line combat and the remarkable challenges of human resiliency. 
 The 10th boarded the S.S. Sea Porpoise for an 8-day voyage to NY then on to Fort Campbell, KY.

Unit honors
 The 10th Infantry Regiment earned the French Croix de Guerre with Palm from the French Government for actions surrounding the Moselle River crossing: "A unit animated to the highest degree with the spirit of sacrifice and always in the front in battle. Picked to carry out a surprise action in the course of its operations from 9 to 15 September 1944, in the region of Arnaville and Army, it succeeded in placing two battalions on the right bank of the Moselle in the middle of the night on terrain where progress was difficult due to heavy rainfall. Counterattacked at dawn by a powerful enemy, it succeeded in holding its position in spite of heavy losses due to a lack of antitank arms. After six days of uninterrupted combat, it occupied the village of Army and forced the enemy to fall back."
The 2nd Battalion, 10th Infantry Regiment earned a second French Croix de Guerre with Palm for the crossing of the Seine River:  "A unit possessing fine qualities of skill in maneuvers and heroism. Near Fountainbleau, on 23 and 24 August 1944, it crossed the Seine under fire from mortars and artillery, and established a bridgehead on the opposite bank. In spite of furious counterattacks, it succeeded in breaking the enemy vise, thus permitting the main body of Allied troops to continue its advance in the liberation of French territory."

Persons of noteworthy contribution 
Edmund Brooke Alexander (6 October 1802 – 3 January 1888) was an officer in the United States Army in the Mexican-American War through the American Civil War who rose to the rank of Brevet Brigadier General in 1865.

COL Alexander was born in Haymarket, Virginia and was an 1823 graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point. In March 1855, promoted to Colonel, Alexander was appointed as Commander of the new 10th Infantry which participated in the Utah Expedition in 1858.

COL Alexander was the very first Commander of the 10th Infantry Regiment, serving from 1855 to 1869. During his tenure, COL Alexander guided the Regiment through the Indian Wars and Civil War. He is also the man responsible for coining the regimental motto- Courage and Fidelity, which is an excerpt from his famous "Order of the day" speech, given upon presentation of the colors to the regiment and prior to deployment to Fort Snelling, Minnesota, the first duty station for the 10th Infantry Regiment.

The Regiment's rich battle history and success in war directly correlates with its historically high-quality leadership, which all started with the inspirational first Commander of the Regiment, COL Alexander.

25 September 1855, COL Alexander, commanding the six-month-old 10th Infantry Regiment, read his order of the day to the cocky, confident group of men assembled on the parade grounds of Carlisle Barracks. He began:

William Mattingly Breckinridge (1905–1996) held various leadership positions in the 10th Infantry including Regimental Executive Officer and Regimental Commander during World War II (WWII). WWII marked the last foreign conflict that the 10th Infantry Regiment served in direct support of.

Breckinridge's father was a captain in the 10th Infantry Regiment at the time of his birth. After being promoted to the rank of Major, he was assigned as Executive Officer of the 2nd Battalion and finally as its Regimental Commander.