[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cavalry scout

Cavalry Scout is the job title of someone who has achieved the military occupational specialty of 19D Armored Reconnaissance Specialist in the Combat Arms branch of the United States Army. As with all enlisted soldiers in the United States Cavalry, the person holding the Scout specialization will still be referred to as a "Trooper", the traditional colloquialism denoted in the cavalry's Order of the Spur.

Cavalry Scouts use their special training to obtain, distribute, and share vital combat and battlefield intelligence on the enemy and on combat circumstances and environmental conditions. The Cavalry Scout is also known as the "eyes and ears" of the Army.

Role
The job of a Cavalry Scout is to operate as one of the first personnel in an area.

Cavalry Scouts gather information on the enemy by dismounted and/or mounted reconnaissance patrols. Cavalry Scouts engage the enemy with anti-armor weapons and scout vehicles in the field, track and report enemy movement and activities, and will direct the employment of various weapon systems onto the enemy.

Their specialized skills enable them to assist with observation and listening posts, perform and help with navigation, and help secure and transport ammunition. The Cavalry Scout leads, serves, or assists as a member of a scout crew, squad, section, platoon or troop in reconnaissance, security, and other combat operations.

Major duties by skill level
Skill Level I (E1 Private – E4 Specialist/Corporal)

Performs duties as crewmember, operates, and performs operator maintenance on scout vehicles: Cavalry Fighting Vehicle (M3 Bradley CFV), HMMWV (Humvee), M1127 Reconnaissance Vehicle (Stryker), crew-served weapons, anti-armor weapons, and communications equipment.
Loads, clears, and fires individual and crew-served weapons.
Engages enemy armor with anti-armor weapons.
Operates and performs operator maintenance on wheeled vehicles.
Assists in the recovery of wheeled and tracked vehicles. Secures, prepares, and stows ammunition on scout vehicles.
Performs mounted and dismounted navigation.
Serves as member of observation and listening post.
Gathers and reports information on terrain features and enemy strength, disposition, and equipment.
Applies principles of escape and evasion.
Collects data for the classification of routes, fords, tunnels, and bridges.
Performs dismounted patrols.
Employs principles of cover and concealment and camouflage.
Assists with construction of light field fortifications, laying and removal of mines, and emplacing demolitions.
Requests and adjusts indirect fire.

Skill Level II (E5 Sergeant)

Supervises scout vehicle crew.
Supervises operator maintenance of tracked and wheeled scout vehicles and individual and crew-served weapons.
Selects, organizes, and supervises operation of observation and listening posts.
Supervises scout vehicle recovery operations.
Trains scout vehicle crew.
Supervises request, receipt, storage, and issue of ammunition.
Leads scout vehicle crew and assists in leading scout squad.
Serves as gunner, on CFV, HMMWV, and M1127 Stryker RV.
May also serve as an Operations Assistant at brigade or squadron level.

Skill Level III (E6 Staff Sergeant)

Supervises scout sections and squads.
Directs tactical deployment of section and squads in combat.
Supervises maintenance of assigned vehicles and equipment.
Collects, reports and evaluates accuracy of intelligence information.
Directs reconnaissance of fording sites, tunnels, and bridges.
Directs route / area / zone reconnaissance at section level.
Coordinates action of vehicles with platoon and supporting elements.
Evaluates terrain, selected routes, assembly areas, firing positions, and positions for combat operations.
Identifies, selects targets, and issues fire commands.
Supervises construction of hasty fortifications.
Supervises section and squad resupply of class I, III, and V.
Trains scout section.
Coordinates requirements for organizational maintenance.
Conducts scout section drills.
Calls for, observes, and adjusts indirect fires.
May also serve as an Operations Assistant in the squadron/battalion or higher level staffs and as Operations NCO at troop level.

Skill Level IV (E7 Sergeant First Class)

Assists the commander or operations officer in planning, organizing, directing, supervising, training, coordinating, and reporting activities of the scout or armored cavalry platoon and staff sections.
Directs distribution of fire in combat.
Supervises platoon maintenance activities.
Collects, evaluates, and assists in interpretation and dissemination of combat information.
Directs platoon tactical movement, platoon security operations (screening), and platoon route/area/zone reconnaissance.
Supervises the employment of OPSEC measures.
Coordinates the evacuation of casualties.
Coordinates and conducts platoon resupply.
Requests and adjusts aerial fires.
May also serve as an Assistant Operations NCO at battalion or higher level.