[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Foreign enlistment in the American Civil War

ommanded by French Major General Count Camille Armand Jules Marie, Prince de Polignac, a veteran of the Crimean War. Known affectionately by his troops as "Prince Polecat", Polignac served with distinction in the Red River Campaign, most notably in the Confederate victory at the Battle of Mansfield.

Great Britain, which was strongly abolitionist both politically and popularly, nevertheless had some sympathy for the Confederacy, largely from those with economic interests in the South (either through selling war materials and supplies, or by reliance on American cotton) or who admired its vaguely aristocratic political hierarchy. Confederate efforts to garner British diplomatic recognition and support culminated in the Trent Affair, which nearly brought the country to a state of war with the Union. Numerous British-born immigrants to the United States enlisted in the Confederate military, with varying motives; some fought to defend the "Southern way of life" and the "peculiar institution", while others enlisted due to their local and personal ties, or simply out community pressure. Among the most notable British subjects to join the Confederacy were Henry Wemyss Feilden, who resigned his commission in the British Army to become a high-ranking officer in the Army of Tennessee, and William Watson, who served as a sergeant in the 3rd Louisiana Infantry before commanding blockade runners. Otherwise, the support of British people both at home and abroad was inconsequential to the war.

The Confederacy also enjoyed strong support from Bermuda, which had maintained kinship and commercial ties with the South since the early 17th century. St. George's was the primary harbor from which European war material was smuggled into the South aboard blockade runners (also built in Britain); cotton travelled in the reverse direction as payment. Many Bermudians earned fortunes through trading with the Confederacy, most notably the blockade runner Thomas Leslie Outerbridge. Confederate agents operated openly in the territory, while the Union's consul had his mail stolen on two occasions and the consulate's flagpole was cut down on the Fourth of July.

See also
 Diplomacy of the American Civil War
 United Kingdom in the American Civil War
 Canada in the American Civil War
 Irish military diaspora
 Military history of Jewish Americans
 African Americans in the American Civil War 
 German Americans in the American Civil War
 Hispanics in the American Civil War 
 Irish Americans in the American Civil War 
 Italian Americans in the Civil War
 Native Americans in the American Civil War

References

Further reading
 Early, Curtis A. and Gloria J. Early.  Ohio Confederate Connection: Facts You May Not Know about the Civil War.  Bloomington, IN: iUniverse, 2010.    Despite the title, this book does contain information on foreign-born Confederates.
 Linedecker, Clifford L., ed. Civil War, A-Z: The Complete Handbook of America's Bloodiest Conflict. New York: Ballantine Books, 2002. 
 Mahin, Dean B. The Blessed Place of Freedom: Europeans in Civil War America. Dulles, Virginia: Brassey's Inc., 2003.

External links
 Association to commemorate the Chinese serving in the American Civil War
 The Blue, the Gray and the Chinese: American Civil War Participants of Chinese Descent
 "Diversity In The Ranks: Foreign-Born Soldiers (And More) At Gettysburg"
 Englishmen in the Confederate Service
 Foreign Soldiers in the American Civil War by Andy Waskie
 From a Foreign Field: Service by Foreign-Born Residents in North Carolina's Confederate Ranks
 Scotland and the Confederate States of America

American Civil War
Confederate States Army soldiers
Expatriate military units and formations
 
Foreign relations during the American Civil War
Military history of the American Civil War
Social history of the American Civil War
Union Army