[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Islam in Japan

he matter of Japanese-Islamic exchange and studies, managed to complete his translation of the Qur'an in prison, while being prosecuted as an alleged class-A war criminal by the victorious Allied forces for being an 'organ of propaganda'. Charges were dropped due to the results of psychiatric tests.

Post–World War II
The Turks have been the biggest Muslim community in Japan until recently. The Japanese invasion of China and South East Asian regions during the Second World War brought the Japanese in contact with Muslims. Those who converted to Islam through them returned to Japan and established in 1953 the first Japanese Muslim organisation, the "Japan Muslim Association", which was officially granted recognition as a religious organization by the Japanese government in June 1968. The second president of the association was the Umar Mita, who was typical of the old generation, learning Islam in the territories occupied by the Japanese Empire. He was working for the Manshu Railway Company, which virtually controlled the Japanese territory in the northeastern province of China at that time. Through his contacts with Chinese Muslims, he became a Muslim in Peking. When he returned to Japan after the war, he made the Hajj, the first Japanese in the post-war period to do so. He also made a Japanese translation of the Qur'an from a Muslim perspective for the first time. Aljazeera also made a documentary regarding Islam and Japan called "Road to Hajj – Japan".

The economic boom in the country in the 1980s saw an influx of immigrants to Japan, including from majority Muslim nations. These immigrants and their descendants form the majority of Muslims in the country. Today, there are Muslim student associations at some Japanese universities. In 2016, Japan accepted 0.3% of refugee applicants, many of whom are Muslims.

Muslim demographics
In 1941, one of the chief sponsors of the Tokyo Mosque asserted that the number of Muslims in Japan numbered 600, with just three or four being native Japanese. Some sources state that in 1982 the Muslims numbered 30,000 (half were natives). Of the ethnically Japanese Muslims, the majority are thought to be ethnic Japanese women who married immigrant Muslims who arrived during the economic boom of the 1980s, but there are also a small number of intellectuals, including university professors, who have converted. Most estimates of the Muslim population give a range around 100,000 total. Islam remains a minority religion in Japan. Conversion is more prominent among young ethnic Japanese married women, as claimed by The Modern Religion as early as the 1990s.

The true size of the current Muslim population in Japan remains a matter of speculation. Japanese scholars such as Hiroshi Kojima of the National Institute of Population and Social Security Research and Keiko Sakurai of Waseda University suggest a Muslim population of around 70,000, of which perhaps 90% are resident foreigners and about 10% native Japanese. Of the immigrant communities, in order of population size, are Indonesians, Indians, Pakistanis and Bangladeshis. The Pew Research Center estimated that there were 185,000 Muslims in Japan in 2010. For 2019 it was estimated that the numbers rose to 230,000, due to the more friendly policies towards immigration, the Japanese converts being estimated at 50,000, and Japan now has more than 110 mosques compared to 24 in 2001. As of 2020; Nearly half of the Muslims in Japan were Indonesians, Filipinos, and Malaysians. Another 2019 estimate places the total number at 200,000, with a ratio of 90:10 for those of foreign origin to native Japanese converts.

The Muslim population is also young suggesting the permanent Muslim population will establish a second and third generation.

Muslims by prefecture 
The percentages of Muslim populations of each prefecture from 2020.

Table

Mosques

Japan's first mosque was the Kobe Muslim Mosque, established in 1935. According to japanfocus.org,  there were 30 to 40 single-story mosques in Japan, The largest of which is the Tokyo Mosque, plus another 100 or more apartment rooms set aside for prayers in the absence of more suitable facilities. 90% of these mosques use the 2nd floor for religious activities and the first floor as a halal shop (imported food; mainly from Indonesia and Malaysia), due to financial problems, as membership is too low to cover the expenses. Most of these Mosques have only a capacity of 30 to 50 people. In 2016, the first ever mosque tailored for native Japanese worshipers (as opposed to services in foreign languages) was opened. As of 2023, there is one Ahmadi mosque in Japan which is The Japan Mosque. It was established in 2015 by Mirza Masroor Ahmad, the mosque has a capacity of 500 worshippers which is the largest of any mosque in Japan.

Notable Muslims
 Antonio Inoki
 Dewi Sukarno
 Kōhan Kawauchi
 Masatoşi Gündüz İkeda
 Mitsutarō Yamaoka
 Ryoichi Mita
 Shotaro Noda 
 Sultan Nour
 Tani Yutaka

See also