[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

and Mountain Cove, Virginia. The retreat route took the army through the communities of Salem, New Castle, and White Sulphur Springs. The army reached Charleston on July 1. Total losses were 940. For the 2nd West Virginia, the loss was 13 killed (4 near Salem, Virginia), 33 wounded, and 21 missing.

Shenandoah Valley
On July 5, 1864, Lieutenant Colonel Dove resigned. He never recovered from his foot wound received in 1863 near Lewisburg, and died in 1868. Major Hoffman was in command of the regiment during Dove's absence (and after Powell's promotion to brigade commander), and he was promoted to lieutenant colonel effective July 14, 1864. On July 8, the regiment left Charleston, West Virginia, for Parkersburg—arriving on July 12. They boarded the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad with their horses on July 16, and began a three-day trip to the other side of the state. Their destination was the rail station at Martinsburg. They were part of the 2nd Brigade, 2nd Cavalry Division, Army of West Virginia. The Army was commanded by General Hunter. The 2nd Cavalry Division was commanded by General Averell, and the 2nd Brigade of the 2nd Division was commanded by Colonel Powell.

Battle of Rutherford's Farm
The Battle of Rutherford's Farm, also known as the Battle of Carter's Farm, occurred on July 20, about  north of Winchester, Virginia.  Union General Hunter sent Brigadier General Averell from Martinsburg toward Winchester to meet a perceived threat to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad from Early's Army of the Valley. Averell encountered Confederate troops under the command of General Stephen Dodson Ramseur.  Ramseur's division was ordered to assume a defensive position at Winchester, which would enable the main portion of Early's army to safely withdraw south from Berryville and Winchester to the more secure city of Strasburg and a hospital in Mount Jackson. (Early had no plan to attack the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad—it was more important for it to appear that he would attack it.)

Against orders, Ramseur attacked Averell's smaller force. The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry was called from reserve to assist the 3rd West Virginia Cavalry when Averell's flanks were threatened. The additional (and unexpected) cavalry caused a Confederate panic, and Averell won the battle.

The Confederates were still able to evacuate Winchester (including a hospital), and Averell did not pursue the retreating rebels because he was unsure if the rest of Confederate General Early's army was nearby. This Union victory was the second of three major Union victories won under the leadership of General Averell.

Battle of Kernstown II

In the days before this defeat of General Crook's Army of West Virginia, the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry, as part of the 2nd Brigade of the 2nd Cavalry Division, spent its time searching for the enemy to the south of Winchester. General Averell was commander of the 2nd Division, and Colonel Powell was commander of the 2nd Brigade. A small detachment of the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry found the enemy, and had to retreat back to the safety of Union lines by "vigorous use of the revolver and saber". Both Averell and General Duffié (commander of the 1st Cavalry Division) reported that enemy infantry, artillery, and cavalry were in the area, but General Crook believed that many of the troops supporting Confederate General Early had returned to Richmond.  Crook's belief was an error on his part, and both Averell and Duffié made accurate reports.

On July 24, Averell was ordered to conduct a flanking maneuver near Front Royal to cut off what Crook believed was a small band of Confederates. Averell encountered much more resistance then he was led to expect, and the Second Battle of Kernstown began. A major event for the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry in this battle was a charge at Confederate artillery. The charging regiment was forced to change course when the Confederate artillery began firing directly at them. Their altered course put them in an even worse predicament—they were moving toward an area that contained concealed Confederate infantry. The regiment suffered casualties, and was forced to retreat. It lost a lieutenant, a sergeant, and a few  enlisted men. Captain Jeremiah Davidson of CompanyE was shot twice and lost his horse after it was also shot.  He was thought to be dying and left behind.  Davidson survived by crawling to a nearby house where he was given medical attention.

General Crook finally understood the situation as his infantry and cavalry fled north through Winchester. He organized a more orderly retreat. Powell's brigade and an infantry brigade led by Colonel Rutherford B. Hayes (future President of the United States) were among the few organized units remaining. They became the rear guard against the pursuing Confederate cavalry. At one point, the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry made a charge with sabers drawn—rescuing a portion of Hayes' brigade that became cut off from the rest of the command.