[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Disappearance of Ron Arad

nknown when the footage was recorded. In October 2007, Israel received a two-decade old letter written by Arad to his family.

On 29 June 2008, United Nations negotiator Gerhard Konrad informed the Israeli government that according to Hezbollah, Arad had been killed during an escape attempt in 1988.

In a news conference on 2 July 2008, held by Hassan Nasrallah, he stated that his group conducted a detailed investigation into the fate of the missing Israeli navigator. The investigation spanned three years, and included in-depth interviews with prominent figures in Lebanon. Nasrallah declined to indicate the findings of the investigation, but stated that a written report was handed to the United Nations representative mediating between the Lebanese group and the Israelis.

During the Gilad Shalit prisoner exchange in 2011, the son of Arad's pilot, Yishai Aviram, was the helicopter pilot who flew Gilad Shalit home after he personally appealed to Air Force commander Ido Nehoshtan.

In February 2016, a Lebanese man, Moufid Kuntar, claimed in court that Arad had been tortured to death while being interrogated in 1988 and was buried in a forest near Mount Lebanon. Kuntar was a commander of the Syrian Social Nationalist Party and claimed that the group captured Arad after he ejected. Kuntar was charged with spying for Israel's intelligence services, but claimed that he provided Israel with false information of Arad's fate until his court appearance.

In October 2016, news reports revealed that a joint investigation carried out by Mossad and IDF Military Intelligence, based on new information received over the previous two years, concluded that Arad had died in 1988.

In October 2021, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett revealed that Mossad kidnapped an Iranian general in Syria to uncover information on the  whereabouts of Ron Arad.

See also
Israeli MIAs
List of people who disappeared
Pidyon Shvuyim

References

External links
 
 
 Archive of news articles
 Ron Arad – Reward: A site that offers a $10,000,000 reward for any proven information leading to Ron Arad.
 Ron Arad News, Israeli newspaper with online reports about Ron Arad.
 Ron Arad on Lebanese TV? – Ynet article & video clip aired on the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation
 Israel obtains two-decade-old letter from missing navigator

1958 births
1980s missing person cases
Aerial disappearances of military personnel in action
Hezbollah–Israel conflict
Israeli Air Force personnel
Israeli military casualties
Israeli prisoners of war
Israeli torture victims
Missing aviators
Missing person cases in Lebanon
People from Hod HaSharon
Shot-down aviators
Military personnel missing in action
Possibly living people