[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Milorad Dodik

m a new Republika Srpska government. On 21 December 2022, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska confirmed the appointment of Višković's cabinet.

On 8 January 2023, Dodik awarded Russian President Vladimir Putin in absentia with the entity's highest decoration, the Order of the Republika Srpska.

In March 2023, violence occurred in Banja Luka over a planned LGBT event and several human rights activists were assaulted by a few dozen men. Also in March, The United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that "Dodik’s attacks on basic rights and freedoms in Republika Srpska show he is on President Putin’s authoritarian path" and that the "State Department continues to advocate for the democratic and prosperous future that all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina deserve."

On 27 June 2023, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska voted to suspend rulings by the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina and stopping publishing the High Representative's decrees and laws in the official gazette. Following this decision, High Representative Christian Schmidt annulled the two laws which the Assembly had adopted, citing that the decisions "directly violate the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Dayton peace agreement."

Dodik condemned Hamas' actions during the 2023 Israel–Hamas war and expressed his support to Israel. The Palace of the Republic in Banja Luka was decorated with the Israeli flag on 8 October 2023.

Indictement
In August 2023, the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina charged Dodik with defying decisions by the High Representative, facing a possible maximum sentence of five years in prison. High-ranking Bosnian Serb officials dismissed the indictement against Dodik as politically motivated, saying they would not recognise decisions by an "unconstitutional court and prosecution." On 16 October 2023, Dodik refused to enter a plea on the indictment at the first hearing, later telling reporters he could not understand the indictment.

Views

Opinions on Tuzla and Markale
In 2009, Dodik stated that the Tuzla massacre was staged and questioned the Markale massacres in Sarajevo. The city of Tuzla filed charges against Dodik over these statements. The city of Sarajevo filed criminal charges against Dodik for abuse of power, and inciting ethnic, racial and religious hatred.

The Office of the High Representative said Dodik denied the war crimes committed and stated that "When such skewed facts come from an official in a position of high responsibility, an official who is obliged to uphold the Dayton Peace Accords and cooperate with the Hague Tribunal, then they are particularly irresponsible and undermine not only the institutions responsible for upholding the rule of law, but the credibility of the individual himself".

Genocide and Srebrenica massacre denial

Dodik described the Srebrenica massacre as a "fabricated myth".

He stated in an interview with the Belgrade newspaper Večernje novosti in April 2010 that "we cannot and will never accept qualifying that event as a genocide", and disowned the 2004 Republika Srpska report which had acknowledged the scale of the killing and had apologised to the relatives of the victims, claiming that the report had been adopted because of pressure from the international community. Without substantiating the figure, he claimed that the number of victims was 3,500 rather than the 7,000 accepted by the report, alleging that 500 listed victims were alive and that over 250 people buried in the Srebrenica Genocide Memorial in Potočari had died elsewhere. During the same month, on 10 April 2010, Dodik initiated a revision of the 2004 report saying that the numbers of killed were exaggerated and the report was manipulated by a former peace envoy. The Office of the High Representative responded and stated that: "The Republika Srpska government should reconsider its conclusions and align itself with the facts and legal requirements and act accordingly, rather than inflicting emotional distress on the survivors, torture history and denigrate the public image of the country".

On 12 July 2010, at the 15th anniversary of the Srebrenica massacre, Dodik declared that he acknowledges the killings that happened on the site, but does not regard what happened at Srebrenica as genocide, differing from the conclusions of the ICTY and of the International Court of Justice, stating that, "(i)f a genocide happened then it was committed against Serb people of this region where women, children and the elderly were killed en masse," referring to eastern Bosnia. In December 2010, Dodik condemned the Peace Implementation Council (PIC), an international community of 55 countries, for referring to the Srebrenica massacre as genocide.

He used variety of claims, espoused by other deniers and conspiracy theorists, such as that Srebrenica was, in fact, revenge for the 1993 Kravica attack and other Bosnian Muslim crimes against Serbs, confirmed or alleged.