[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Moscow Helsinki Group

n in Europe (CSCE) which was due to open in Madrid in 1980. In 1988, Helsinki Watch evolved into Human Rights Watch.

In 1982, the Helsinki monitoring groups of Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United States formed the International Helsinki Federation.

Rebirth 

In July 1989, the Moscow Helsinki Group was re-established by human rights activists Vyacheslav Bakhmin, Larisa Bogoraz, Sergei Kovalev, Alexey Smirnov, Lev Timofeev, and Boris Zolotukhin. Other prominent members are Yuri Orlov, Lyudmila Alexeyeva, Henri Reznik, Lev Ponomarev, and Aleksei Simonov.

The chair of the re-established Moscow Helsinki Group was Larisa Bogoraz, followed in 1994 by Kronid Lubarsky. In May 1996, Lyudmila Alexeyeva (who returned from emigration in 1993) became its head, leading it until her death in 2018. In November 1998, she was also elected president of the International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights.

2010s and 2020s
In 2012, the Moscow Helsinki Group renounced foreign funding and connections in order avoid being labeled as a foreign agent in compliance with the Russian foreign agent law.

In 2015, the Moscow Helsinki Group continued fighting against being labeled as a "foreign agent".

, MHG is co-chaired by two participants of the Soviet-era dissident movement - Vyacheslav Bakhmin (political prisoner in 1980-84) and Valery Borshchev (formerly Duma deputy from the opposition Yabloko party). Two of its main projects include: annual reports on the human rights situation in Russia; monitoring police activities; and educational programs. In September 2021, MHG issued a statement denouncing the non-transparency of electronic voting used in the preceding elections to the Duma and urging Russia's board of elections to cancel electronic voting results.

Dissolution
On 20 December 2022 the Russian Justice Ministry filed a court order seeking to dissolve the organization. The Justice Ministry claimed that the organization's own charters do not meet the requirements of the law and authorities alleged that they also prohibit it from defending human rights outside of Moscow, which co-chair Valery Borshchev dismissed as "nonsense". Borshchev described the dissolution, which was ordered on 25 January, as "a serious blow to the human rights movement not only in Russia but also the world".

Criticism 

Opinions differed as to the effectiveness and impact of the revived Moscow Helsinki Group. In the late 1980s and early 1990s it was no longer alone, but one among a variety of new organisations (Memorial, For Human Rights, the Glasnost Defence Foundation) that were engaged in defending human rights and freedom of expression, and carrying out missions to hot-spots in different parts of the USSR and, later, in Russia (above all, Chechnya).

Human rights activist Sergei Grigoryants, founder of the Glasnost periodical, was particularly scathing. Instead of the heroic and sacrificial traditions of the original Helsinki Groups, the re-established body was an intelligentsia-oriented elite club, forgotten by all. In 2001 he described it as "the most servile and pro-government" among NGOs then existing in Russia.

References

Publications 
 
 
  (publicly available unabridged Russian text)

Further reading 
 
 
  (publicly available unabridged Russian text )
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  (publicly available unabridged Russian text)

External links 
 
 
 

 
Organizations established in 1976
1976 establishments in the Soviet Union
1976 establishments in Russia
1982 disestablishments in the Soviet Union
1982 disestablishments in Russia
Organizations disestablished in 2023
Organizations based in Moscow
Defunct organizations based in Russia