[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Avro 730

188 aircraft was built to test the compound-delta wing shape, and later, the effects of prolonged supersonic flight on metal. Up to 10 prototypes of the aircraft were proposed, necessitated in part by a decision made part-way through the development process to give the aircraft a bombing capability.

The initial version of the aircraft had been intended strictly for the aerial reconnaissance role, for which it would have employed its "Red Drover" sideways-looking radar to find targets for attack by the V bomber force that would follow. As development had progressed, it became clear that the radar would not necessitate as bulky an antenna as initially believed, which had the result of freeing up considerable internal space. In response, the RAF began to concentrate on a secondary bombing role for the type, for which it was to carry both the radar along with a long bomb bay, in which either a weapon or additional fuel could be contained within. A high-speed bomber requirement was also being studied at the time, OR.336, so the two projects were combined into the new RB.156 requirement in October 1955. This led to the Avro 730 undergoing a fairly substantial redesign to correspond with the new requirements being issued. Avro had anticipated this eventuality in their original submission.

The envisioned test program was to have been quite thorough, which would have involved subjected full-scale aircraft to the severe temperatures anticipated at Mach 2.5 flight via a purpose-built heat chamber; upon reaching the flight testing phase, the prototypes had been scheduled to perform a total of 1,400 flight hours. The first prototype, which had received the internal designation Avro 731, a three-eighths scale aircraft for testing purposes, was scheduled to fly in 1959. A pair of Avro 731 prototypes were set to be built and flown in advance of the full-scale prototypes.

The first prototype was under construction when the minister, Duncan Sandys, announced the decision to cancel its development in 1957. It had been suspected that by the time the aircraft came into service a decade later it would have been vulnerable to Soviet advances in anti-aircraft missile technology. Effort was instead transferred to the Blue Streak medium-range ballistic missile, while the sole 730 test fuselage was cut up. The Bristol 188 project continued despite the cancellation of the 730. Aspects and influences of the Avro 730 encouraged studies at the Royal Aircraft Establishment, Farnborough, into supersonic transport aircraft, which in turn eventually contributed to the development effort behind Concorde.

Design
The Avro 730 was a very high speed aircraft that was originally designed solely for aerial reconnaissance purposes. In order to achieve the desired high speed performance, the aircraft consisted of a long, slender fuselage with a high fineness ratio and a small, tapered, almost rectangular wing that was mounted centrally on the fuselage. The wing's relative shortness and straightness enabled the lengthy aerial for the primary reconnaissance sensor, the Red Drover X-band radar, to be contained within the fuselage, as the wing provided little obstruction and therefore little interference with the radar. A total of four Armstrong-Siddeley P.156 engines, mounted two apiece in an over-under arrangement of pods positioned at the extreme tips of the wings, provided propulsion. The engine nacelles included variable-geometry air intakes while the engines themselves were equipped with convergent-divergent nozzles. Alternative arrangements of two or three shock cones could have been installed on the nacelles.

The aircraft adopted an atypical tail-first configuration; this approach had the effect of greatly reducing trim-drag while also generating increased lift at slower speeds. Longitudinal control was provided by the nose-mounted tail plane via trailing edge elevators, lateral control was enacted by ailerons located on the wing's trailing edge, and directional control was achieved by a conventional rudder. All four of the primary flight control surfaces were actuated by a quadruple-redundant electro-hydraulic control unit, designed by Boulton Paul. Fly-by-wire electrical controls and automatic control systems were also to be employed on the type. The undercarriage, designed by Dowty Group, used an arrangement of a single centre-fuselage main unit complete with four wheels, a nose unit with two wheels, and a pair of outriggers located on the engine nacelles.