[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Pickett's Mill

he battle lasted three hours, and during its last hour a thunderstorm rumbled overhead. Hooker admitted sustaining losses of 1,665 killed and wounded in a place the Union troops began calling the "Hell Hole". Stewart's division, which was the main defending force, reported losing 300–400 casualties.

The leading unit of Howard's IV Corps, which was Brigadier General John Newton's 2nd Division, arrived in the area of New Hope Church at 6 pm and was placed in line on the left of Hooker's corps. By the morning of May 26, Howard's entire corps was fully deployed. Regarding Palmer's XIV Corps, Brigadier General Absalom Baird's 3rd Division was assigned to guard Thomas' wagon train at Burnt Hickory and Brigadier General Richard W. Johnson's 1st Division was placed in reserve behind Hooker. On the morning of May 26, McPherson's two corps occupied Dallas and confronted Hardee's corps about  farther east. McPherson deployed Logan's XV Corps on the right, Dodge's XVI Corps in the center, and Davis' XIV Corps division on the left. Between Davis and Hooker, there was a lightly defended area. Schofield's XXIII Corps left Brigadier General Alvin Peterson Hovey's division to watch the wagon train and proceeded with the divisions of Brigadier Generals Jacob Dolson Cox and Milo S. Hascall. Schofield's corps reached the battlefield after an all night march in the rain. During the night, Schofield was injured when his horse fell into a ravine, so Cox temporarily assumed command of the corps. In the morning, Sherman directed the corps to the left of Howard's corps and, after marching by compass through thick woods, it came into line near Brown's saw-mill. At this point, the XXIII Corps and the left of the IV Corps made a right wheel to face toward the Confederate defensive positions. On May 26, both sides entrenched and the day was notable for the continuous skirmishing that took place between the two sides.

Battle

The maneuver

Sherman decided to turn Johnston's right flank. Aware of his numerical superiority, and with both armies entrenched, Sherman decided that he could assemble some of his troops and use them to outflank the Confederate defenses. In addition, by extending his left flank northward, Sherman was able to get closer to the railroad line. Also on May 26, McCook's cavalry bested Wheeler's horsemen in a skirmish, capturing 50 Confederates. This clash seemed to indicate that Johnston's right flank was only defended by cavalry.

On May 27, the artillery of Schofield, Howard, and Hooker bombarded the Confederate defenses starting at dawn, and the opposing batteries replied. Sherman wanted Howard, supported by Schofield's divisions, to thrust at what he believed to be Johnston's right flank while McPherson pressed back the Confederate left flank. At dawn, Howard withdrew Thomas J. Wood's division (IV Corps) from its newly-dug trenches and replaced it with David S. Stanley's division. As Wood's division marched north, Thomas and Howard conducted a reconnaissance of the location where Sherman wanted to attack. Finding that the assault would have to cross an open field subject to Confederate cross fire, Thomas instructed Howard to shift the assault location farther north, to the left of Schofield's lines. Thomas also detached Johnson's 1st Division from XIV Corps so that it could support Wood's attack. Furious that first Davis' and now Johnson's divisions were taken away from him, Palmer threatened to resign command of XIV Corps, and Thomas had to talk him out of it.

At 11 am, Wood's division was formed into a column of brigades with each brigade formed into two lines, so that the division was deployed into six lines, one behind the other. Johnson's division was formed into a similar column. The Union divisions marched through forests so dense that Wood gave the colonel of his leading regiment a compass to guide the movement. After marching , Howard ordered Wood's and Johnson's columns to turn to the right and prepare to attack. Wood's skirmishers went forward and discovered entrenched Confederates in front, so Howard decided to attack farther north. Howard ordered Brigadier General Nathaniel McLean's brigade to support Wood's right flank; McLean's command was the 3rd Brigade, 3rd Division, XXIII Corps. The crucial defense of McLean's brigade at the Second Battle of Bull Run may have prevented a Union catastrophe, but bad blood existed between McLean and Howard. Historian Albert Castel asserted, "Of all the brigade commanders in Sherman's army, a worse one to assist in Howard's attack could not have been found." Howard blamed McLean among others for the disaster to XI Corps at the Battle of Chancellorsville and McLean detested Howard for it.