[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Chin–Doihara Agreement

The Chin–Doihara Agreement (; ) was a treaty that resolved the North Chahar Incident of 27 June 1935 between the Empire of Japan and the Republic of China. The agreement was made between Kwantung Army negotiator, Kenji Doihara, representing Japan, and Deputy Commander of the Kuomintang 29th Army, General Qin Dechun (Chin Techun), representing China. It resulted in the demilitarisation of Chahar.

As a result of the Chin–Doihara Agreement it was agreed:
1.) The commander of the regiment that had detained the Japanese soldiers and the judge advocate of the division concerned was to be dismissed and punished. 
2.) All units of the Chinese 29th Army were to be withdrawn from the districts of Chahar Provincenorth of Changpei.   
3.) The maintenance of peace and order was to be entrusted to the Peace Preservation Corps of Chahar Province.
4.) No Chinese were to be permitted to migrate to and settle in the northern part of Chahar province in the future. 
5.) No activities of the Kuomintang were to be permitted in Chahar Province.
6.) All anti-Japanese institutions and acts were to be banned in Chahar Province.

As a result of the Agreement, Qin became head of the Chahar Provisional Government.

As with the previous He-Umezu Agreement, which gave Japan virtual control over the province of Hebei, the Chin–Doihara Agreement was a first step in the establishment of Japanese control over northern China and Inner Mongolia. The Agreement resulted in considerable anti-Japanese sentiment in China and was one of the causes of the December 9th Movement at the end of 1935.

See also
 Second Sino-Japanese War

Notes

References

 International Military Tribunal for the Far East, Chapter 5: Japanese Aggression Against China

Second Sino-Japanese War
War treaties
1935 in Japan
1935 in China
Treaties of the Republic of China (1912–1949)
Treaties concluded in 1935
Treaties of the Empire of Japan
1935 in military history
China–Japan treaties