[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# AN/FSQ-32

The AN/FSQ-32 SAGE Solid State Computer (AN/FSQ-7A before December 1958, colloq. "Q-32") was a planned military computer central for deployment to Super Combat Centers in nuclear bunkers and to some above-ground military installations.  In 1958, Air Defense Command planned to acquire 13 Q-32 centrals for several Air Divisions/Sectors.

Background
In 1956, ARDC sponsored "development of a transistorized, or solid-state, computer"  by IBM and when announced in June 1958, the planned "SAGE Solid State Computer...was estimated to have a computing capability of seven times" the AN/FSQ-7.  ADC's November 1958 plan to field—by April 1964—the 13 solid state AN/FSQ-7A was for each to network "a maximum of 20 long-range radar inputs [40 LRI telephone lines] and a maximum dimension of just over 1000 miles in both north-south and east-west directions."  "Low rate Teletype data" could be accepted on 32 telephone lines (e.g., from "Alert Network Number 1").  On 17 November 1958, CINCNORAD "decided to request the solid state computer and hardened facilities", and the remaining vacuum-tube AN/FSQ-8 centrals for combat centers were cancelled (one was retrofitted to function as an AN/FSQ-7).

" AN/FSQ-32 computer would be"* used:
1.  for "a combat center" (as with the vacuum-tube AN/FSQ-8),
2.  to accept "radar and weapons connections" for weapons direction as with the AN/FSQ-7--e.g., for backup CIM-10 Bomarc guidance or manned interceptor GCI if above-ground Direction Center(s) could not function, and
3.  for "air traffic control functions".
"Air Defense and Air Traffic Control Integration" was planned for airways modernization after the USAF, CAA, and AMB agreed on August 22, 1958, to "collocate air route traffic control centers and air defense facilities" (e.g., jointly use some Air Route Surveillance Radars at SAGE radar stations).  The May 22, 1959, agreement between the USAF, DoD, and FAA designated emplacement of ATC facilities "in the hardened structure of the nine U. S. SCC's", and SAGE Air Defense Sectors and FAA regions were to have coincident boundaries in a June 19, 1959, air defense plan used to create a new SAGE Implementation Schedule on July 1, 1959.

On December 21, 1959, the Office of Defense Research and Engineering informed NORAD a stop order had been placed on AN/FSQ-32 production and in January 1960, the Office of the Secretary of Defense recommended the SCC program be cancelled.  The AN/FSQ-32, as part of the SCC Program, was cancelled by March 18, 1960, and the SAGE Air Traffic Integration (SATIN) was similarly cancelled by the DoD.  Back-Up Interceptor Control eventually with smaller solid-state computers at above-ground SAGE radar stations was instead implemented for survivability.

Planned deployment was for Ottawa, St Louis, San Antonio, Raleigh, Syracuse, Chicago, Spokane, Minot, Portland, Phoenix, Miami (above-ground), Albuquerque (above-ground), and Shreveport (above-ground).  (During 1959 SAGE/FAA "boundary alignments", the total was reduced to 12.)

Prototype
The prototype of the AN/FSQ-32 was the largest transistor (solid state) computer ever made. Initial weight: , expanded (18 tape drives, 10 storage units): .

The Q-32 prototype was installed at System Development Corporation (SDC) headquarters in Santa Monica, California, and SDC developed the prototype software using JOVIAL.  The mainframe occupied nearly an entire floor of a large office building (refrigeration units were also in the building).   The prototype used batch processing of the military data.

ARPA research
In the early 1960s, the AN/FSQ-32 prototype was taken over by the Advanced Research Projects Agency and remained in Santa Monica. This action set the stage for ARPA's Information Processing Techniques Office. SDC's research included ways to permit the prototype to handle multiple batch tasks simultaneously ("time-sharing") and to simultaneously process data multiple geographically-separated computer users.

On April 23, 1963, Dr. J. C. R. Licklider, ARPA Director of Behavioral Sciences Command & Control Research, identified early challenges in establishing a time-sharing network of computers with the software of the era. An early remote user of the prototype was the Augmentation Research Center at the Stanford Research Institute.

Time-sharing
By June 1963 the Time-Sharing System (TSS) Model Zero was demonstrated after magnetic drums were added to the time-sharing. Each user was given a priority-based time slice, measured in milliseconds, when the user's program was written from the magnetic drums into much higher speed memory, processed, and then written back to the magnetic drums with any computational changes that had occurred.  It was influenced by early experiments at Bolt, Beranek, and Newman, and the CTSS project at MIT.  Terminals included several Teletype Model 33 ASRs.