[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# August 1976

an Diego Chargers, before a crowd of 38,000 fans.
The Ramones made their first "professional" performance, debuting as the feature band at CBGB, a bar in New York's East Tavern that initially limited its music to "country, blue grass and blues" music but soon moved into punk rock and new wave music.

August 17, 1976 (Tuesday)
A tsunami killed more than 5,000 people in the Philippines on the islands of Mindanao and Sulu shortly after an earthquake that struck offshore at 11 minutes after midnight local time (16:11 UTC on August 16).  Waves as high as  were reported to have swept over Lebak on Mindanao.  According to the Philippines' National Disaster Coordinating Center the next day, 3,131 people were confirmed dead and 3,117 were missing.
Meeting at the Conference of Non-Aligned Nations (commonly called "The Third World Conference" by the western press), held in Colombo, Sri Lanka, Vietnam's Communist Prime Minister Pham Van Dong told fellow Third World leaders that Vietnam wanted to develop normal diplomatic relations with the U.S., with whom it had fought the Vietnam War, and to develop economic ties with the U.S. and other capitalist nations.
Died: 
William Redfield, 49, U.S. stage and film actor, from leukemia
Maurice Dobb, 76, British Marxist economist

August 18, 1976 (Wednesday)
At Panmunjom, North Korea, two United States soldiers were killed while trying to trim the branches on a tree which had obscured their view of their northernmost observation post in the Korean Demilitarized Zone. The trimming operation took place on the South Korean side of the "Bridge of No Return" near Panmunjom, as a group of six American and four South Korean border guards under the United Nations Command, along with five South Korean civilians were performing a routine task when they were approached by 11 North Korean soldiers.  Under the terms of the truce creating the Korean DMZ, soldiers on both sides of the border were "guaranteed free movement and access inside the small, jointly administered zone designated as the Joint Security Area," informally referred to as the "Peace Village".  At first the Communists approved of the project and even offered suggestions on pruning the trees.  A few minutes later, two North Korean officers and some soldiers approached and demanded that the tree trimmings stop.  The work continued and a truck with 20 more North Korean soldiers arrived and an officer gave the order "Kill them."  At 10:45 in the morning local time, the North Koreans "rushed the Americans and South Koreans with axes, metal spikes and ax handles."  The two dead were U.S. Army Captain Arthur G. Bonifas, 33, and First Lieutenant Mark T. Barrett, 25.  In the 23 years since the end of the Korean War up until then, more than 1,000 people, including 49 Americans, had been killed in confrontations within the DMZ.  According to the U.S. Department of Defense, the DEFCON level of state of readiness of defense condition was temporarily raised from DEFCON 4 to DEFCON 3 for the first time since the 1973 Arab-Israeli War.
The South African governmental unit administering South West Africa as United Nations mandate announced that "a multiracial government" would be installed to lead the territory to full independence from the Union of South Africa by December 31, 1978.  South Africa's apartheid white minority government, which had refused to give up its mandate during British rule, before the apartheid racial segregation policy had been implemented.  The United Nations Council for Namibia rejected the plan as "ambiguous and equivocal."  Namibia would attain independence as a majority-ruled black African nation in 1990.
The Soviet Union's uncrewed spacecraft Luna 24 landed on the Moon, touching down in the Sea of Crises almost two years after Luna 23 had crashed into the same area in November 1974.  During its stay of slightly less than 23 hours, Luna 24 drilled into the lunar surface two meters deep and picked up a soil sample and was launched back to lunar orbit to prepare for return to Earth.
Three Mexican campesinos, who had crossed into the United States illegally, were caught and tortured by rancher George Hanigan and his two sons after they being caught trespassing on Hanigan's ranch near the border town of Douglas, Arizona as they walked to a farm job in Elfrida.  The Mexican men escaped the Hanigan Ranch and fled back across the border from Douglas to Agua Prieta, where they notified local police.  The police contacted the Mexican consul in Douglas, who in turn appeared before a federal grand jury which indicted the Hanigans.  George Hanigan would die of a heart attack on March 22, one week before the scheduled federal criminal trial.  One of the sons, Patrick Hanigan, would be convicted of violating the civil rights of Manuel García Loya, Eleazar Ruelas Zavala, and Bernabe Herrera.
Born: 
Lee Seung-yuop, South Korean baseball star with 467 career home runs in the KBO League, and five-time Most Valuable Player of the leag