[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Weeksville Heritage Center

nterns of the Neighborhood Youth Corps were employed by what was initially called the Weeksville Project to explore the block as demolition of the houses occurred. The archeological site was developed for the present-day Weeksville Gardens Houses, which belong to the New York City Housing Authority.

Residents gradually developed the Weeksville Project as a legally incorporated entity, The Society for the Preservation of Weeksville and Bedford-Stuyvesant History, generally known as The Weeksville Society.

The Society purchased the Hunterfly Road houses in 1973. The houses were rehabilitated in the 1980s, and again after vandalism in the 1990s.  In 2005, following a $3 million restoration, the houses reopened to the public as the Weeksville Heritage Center. Each house showcases a different era of Weeksville history.

Expansion of Heritage Center

The Heritage Center now features a $14 million  performance and educational program space, including a café and library. It was almost entirely financed with city money, and extends Weeksville's offering to a broader spectrum of the community. The Heritage Center aspires to increase the number of visitors from the roughly 7,500 who visit annually to about 50,000. Caples Jefferson Architects designed a new museum building that opened in 2014.

In 2019, the center launched an emergency crowdfunding campaign due to budget shortfalls. The Center asked that donors give at least $200,000 until the city could allot funds. That June, the center was designated as a member of the city's Cultural Institutions Group, becoming the first new addition to that group in over 20 years, and the first black cultural center in Brooklyn to be so named. The designation allows the center to receive significant capitol to fund operating costs from the Department of Cultural Affairs.

See also 
 African Civilization Society
 African-American historic places
 List of New York City Designated Landmarks in Brooklyn
 National Register of Historic Places listings in Brooklyn

References

External links 

 Weeksville Heritage Center

African-American history in New York City
Museums in Brooklyn
Populated places established in 1838
African-American museums in New York City
Open-air museums in New York (state)
Crown Heights, Brooklyn
Historic house museums in New York City
1838 establishments in New York (state)
Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in Brooklyn
New York City designated historic districts
New York City Designated Landmarks in Brooklyn
African-American historic house museums