[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Murder of Shanda Sharer

by a relative at age 9 and was raped by a teenage boy at age 14, although the police only issued an order for the boy to keep away from Lawrence. She went into counseling after the incident but did not follow through. She became promiscuous, began to self-harm, and attempted suicide in eighth grade.

Events prior to murder
In 1990, 14-year-old Loveless began dating another young girl named Amanda Heavrin. After Loveless' father left the family and her mother remarried, Loveless behaved erratically. She got into fights at school and reported being depressed, resulting in her receiving professional counseling. In March 1991, Loveless came out as a lesbian (as her two older sisters had done) to her mother. Her mother was initially furious but eventually accepted it. As the year progressed, Loveless's relationship with Heavrin deteriorated.

Heavrin met Shanda Sharer early in the fall semester at Hazelwood Middle School when Heavrin started a fight with Sharer; however, they became friends while in detention for the altercation, and later exchanged romantic letters. Loveless immediately grew jealous of Heavrin and Sharer's close friendship. In early October 1991, Heavrin took Sharer as her date to a school dance, where Loveless found and confronted Sharer. Although Heavrin and Loveless never actually broke up, Loveless started dating an older girl.

After Heavrin and Sharer attended a festival together in late October, Loveless began to discuss killing Sharer and threatened her in public. Concerned about the effects of their daughter's relationship with Heavrin, Sharer's parents arranged for her to transfer to a Catholic school in late November. Heavrin later claimed she gave letters Loveless sent her containing death threats towards Sharer to a "youth prosecutor", but the youth prosecutor never did anything about it as far as she knew.

Events of January 10–11, 1992

Pre-abduction
On the night of January 10, 1992, Lawrence (age 15), Rippey (15) and Tackett (17) drove in Tackett's car from Madison to Loveless's house in New Albany. Rippey and Lawrence, while both friends of Tackett, had not previously met Loveless (16). Upon arrival, they borrowed some clothes from Loveless, and she showed them a knife, telling them she was going to scare Sharer with it. While Tackett, Rippey, and Lawrence had never met Sharer prior to that night, Tackett had already known of the plan to murder the 12-year-old girl. Loveless explained to the two other girls that she disliked Sharer for being a “copycat” and for stealing her girlfriend.

Tackett let Rippey drive the four girls to Jeffersonville, where Sharer stayed with her father on the weekends, stopping at a McDonald's restaurant en route to ask for directions. They arrived at Sharer's house shortly before dark. Loveless instructed Rippey and Lawrence to go to the door and introduce themselves as friends of Heavrin. Sharer answered the door, and Rippey and Lawrence asked for Shanda, Sharer then replied that she was Shanda. Rippey and Lawrence asked Shanda to come with them to see Heavrin, who was waiting for them at "the Witch's Castle", or Mistletoe Falls, a ruined stone house located on an isolated hill overlooking the Ohio River.

Sharer was reluctant to go out, and told them she had a party to attend to, and suggested the girls come back around midnight, a few hours later. Loveless was angry at first, but Rippey and Lawrence assured her about returning for Sharer later. The four girls crossed the river to Louisville and attended a punk rock show by the band Sunspring at the Audubon Skate Park near Interstate 65. Lawrence and Rippey quickly lost interest in the music and went to the parking lot outside, where they engaged in sexual activities with two boys in Tackett's car.

Eventually, the four girls left for Sharer's house. During the ride, Loveless said that she could not wait to kill Sharer; however, Loveless also said she just intended to use the knife to frighten her. When they arrived at Sharer's house at 12:30 a.m., Lawrence refused to retrieve Sharer, so Tackett went with Rippey to the door instead. Loveless hid under a blanket in the back seat of the car with the knife.

Abduction
Sharer's father and stepmother had gone to bed and allowed Sharer to stay downstairs for a bit to watch television. Rippey told Sharer that Heavrin was still at the Witch's Castle. Sharer was reluctant to go with them, yet agreed after changing her clothes. As they got in the car, Rippey began asking Sharer questions about her relationship with Heavrin. Loveless then sprang out from the back seat, put the knife to Sharer's throat and began interrogating her about her sexual relationship with Heavrin. They drove towards Utica and the Witch's Castle. Tackett told the girls that a local legend said the house was once a Castle owned by nine witches and that the townspeople burned down the house to get rid of the witches, leaving a small stone house in its place.