[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Medical Assistant (Royal Navy)

e term Steward was dropped in favour of Petty Officer. Another major change took place in 1965 which affected the Royal Navy as a whole when the "Fore and Aft" rig was abolished in favour of the "Square Rig". Also in 1965 the term Medical Assistant replaced Sick Berth, and so it remains to this day.

The Royal Navy Medical Assistant, throughout their history, whether as a Loblollyboy, or Sick Berth Rating, has seen action during war and in peace. From assisting the ships surgeons in amputating limbs to nursing the injured sailors and Marines from wars and battles throughout Britain's history, from the 16th century onwards. Most notably they served with distinction during the Napoleonic Wars at sea, the Crimean War, the Boer and other African wars, the Chinese Boxer Rebellion, and in World War I at sea and on the land. Both Sick Berth Staff of the Navy and the Medical Attendants of the Royal Marines served with distinction at the Battle of Jutland, Flanders, Gallipoli, the Western Front, Battle of Heligoland Bight, Zeebrugge Raid, the Mediterranean Expeditionary Force, Siege of Antwerp, the Battle of Dogger Bank, and the British Campaign in the Baltic (Russia) to name a few.

During World War II the Sick Berth Branch once again served with distinction from the Atlantic to the Pacific, in Commando raids at St Nazaire and the D-Day landings at Normandy, the far East, and with the British Pacific Fleet at Okinawa.

Post-war they served with further recognition and distinction in Op Musketeer (Suez Crisis), Korea, Aden, Malaya, Malaysia/Borneo Operation Claret, Op Banner N. Ireland, Op Corporate Falkland Islands, Gulf War 1, Bosnia, Kosovo, Op Herrick Afghanistan, Op Telic Iraq, various humanitarian and other peacetime Operations, both at sea and with the Royal Marine Commandos. A total of 992 have died in service, Their name liveth for evermore.

Honours and awards 
So far recorded the Sick Berth/Medical Assistant branch rating has earned:

Albert Medal x 4
Conspicuous Gallantry Medal x 4
George Medal x 3
Distinguished Service Medal x 85
Distinguished Conduct Medal x 2
Military Cross x 3
Military Medal (4 with Bar) x 106
Queen's Gallantry Medal x 1
British Empire Medal x 180
Member of the Royal Victorian Order x 1
Royal Victorian Medal x 6
Order of St John Serving Brother x 27
Venerable Order of Saint John (Serving Sister) x 1
Royal Humane Society Medal x 2
Member of the Order of the British Empire Medal x 17
Meritorious Service Medal x 93
Queen's Commendation for Brave Conduct x 3
Mention in Despatches x 337
Royal Red Cross 2nd Class x 7
Queens Commendation for Valuable Service x 3
(Foreign awards listed are only those of which the reigning monarch of the time provided permission to wear, and therefore noted in the London Gazette. Many hundreds of foreign decorations have been awarded to the medical branch which have not been noted in the London Gazette)
Cross of St George 4th Class (Russia) x 1
Croix de Guerre (French) (1 with palm) x 4
Croix de Guerre (Belgium) x 2
Croix de Virtute Militara 2nd Class (Romania) x 1
Krzyz Walecznych (Polish Cross of Valour) x 1
Romanian Distinguished Conduct Medal 2nd class x 1
Medal of the Order of Orange-Nassau Gold with crossed swords (Netherlands) x 1
Gold Medal for Zealous service (Serbia) x 1
Medal of the Order of Orange-Nassau Silver (Netherlands) x 1
Silver Medal of Military Valor (Italy) x 1
Bronze Medal of Military Valor (Italy) x 2
Médaille militaire (French) x 6
Decoration Militaire (Belgium) x 1
Medal D'Honneur des Epidemies (Bronze) (French) x 1
Medal of Military Merit (Greece) x 1
Cross of Valour (Greece) x 1
Imperial Order of the Dragon of Annam Chevalier (French Vietnamese)]] x 1

An ongoing project is underway to find all honours and awards that have been recorded in the London Gazette for the Sick Berth/Medical Assistant ratings. Many more are being discovered.

Training 
Basic training (10 weeks) is conducted at  shore establishment in Torpoint, Cornwall. Medical training (39 weeks) is conducted at the Defence Medical Academy at Whittington Barracks in Lichfield.

The first 13 weeks is called Common Core and is also completed with the medics from the British Army and RAF. This training includes:

 Anatomy and physiology
 Disorders and their treatments
 Basic pharmacology and dispensing
 Basic environmental health
 Preventative medicine
 Wounds and dressings
 Medical administration
 Geneva Convention
 First-Aid
 Military Acute Care Course, involving Pre-Hospital Trauma, Life Support.

An exam is taken on each week, those unable on the pass on their second attempt of each exam are 'back classed'.