[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# International Brigades order of battle

The International Brigades (IB) were volunteer military units of foreigners who fought on the side of the Second Spanish Republic during the Spanish Civil War.  The number of combatant volunteers has been estimated at between 32,000–35,000, though with no more than about 20,000 active at any one time. A further 10,000 people probably participated in non-combatant roles and about 3,000–5,000 foreigners were members of CNT or POUM. They came from a claimed "53 nations" to fight against the Spanish Nationalist forces led by General Francisco Franco and assisted by German and Italian forces.

The volunteers were motivated to fight on political or social grounds and made their way to Spain independently of the Spanish government.  The brigades were not initially formally conceived and methodically recruited. Instead, they evolved as a means of organising the streams of volunteers arriving from every quarter of the world. It has been estimated that up to 25% of IB volunteers were Jewish. This article describes the order of battle of each of the International Brigades, describing the order and manner in which each brigade was mustered and formed, and following the progress of individual battalions throughout the conflict.

Introduction

Early International units
The first volunteers arrived in Spain in mid-August 1936. These were mostly Franco-Belgian, German, British and Italian. At first, they grouped themselves into sections, called Columns or Centuria (nominally of a hundred men). These were mostly formed in August/September 1936.
 The Tom Mann Centuria, named after English trade unionist leader Tom Mann, became part of the Thaelmann Battalion
 The Thaelmann Centuria (the nucleus of the Thaelmann Battalion), named for Ernst Thälmann.
 Gastone Sozzi Centuria, named for Gastone Sozzi
 Rosselli's Italian Column
 Colonna Giustizia e Libertà

Brigade structure

Each brigade was a mixed brigade consisting of four battalions, sometimes with an ancillary specialist support company. They had a brigade commander and a political commissar, and a small brigade staff. Initially, the battalions were formed entirely of foreign volunteers but, increasingly, it became practice to have at least one Spanish battalion in each brigade (and, from spring 1937, one Spanish company in each battalion). As time went on, and the difficulties of recruiting new international volunteers increased, the percentage of Spaniards went up. At first, these were volunteers but conscription was later introduced. The brigades were formally incorporated into the Spanish Army in September 1937, as Spanish Foreign Legion units.

Battalion structure
The battalions were originally organised by language, with volunteers sharing the same (or similar languages) and given names that reflected the groups. To develop an esprit de corps, these names were replaced by names of inspirational figures or events, for example, Garibaldi, or Commune de Paris.

"Theoretically, the Battalion organisation consisted of the Battalion Commander, his Second in Command, the Political Commissar, the Adjutant and orderly room staff, three Companies of infantry, one machine-gun Company, Battalion scouts, and the Quartermaster and cookhouse staff. There were three platoons in each company, each divided into [four] sections of ten men, so that the Battalion at full strength would number more than 500 men...."

Political commissars
See article: Political commissar

International brigade depots

Albacete - Headquarters
Madrigueras - Training camp
Tiflis - Officer training school
Camp Lukácz - Penal battalion

XI International Brigade

Names:
 The Hans Beimler Brigade (after Hans Beimler)
 The Thälmann Brigade (after Ernst Thälmann)

Songs by Ernst Busch and the choir of the XI Brigade:
 Hans Beimler Lied 
 Lied von XI Brigade  ("Song of the XIth Brigade")
 Lied der XI Brigade Or Ballade or Marsch der XI Brigade)

Detailed Order of Battle
 EPR Order of Battle Website 
 Associació Catalana Website

Formation
Formed at Albacete: 14–17 October 1936 as IX Brigada Movil ("Mobile Brigade").
 1st Bn Franco-Belgian (14 October 1936)
 2nd Bn Austro-German (14 October 1936)
 3rd Bn Italo-Spanish (14 October 1936)
 4th Bn Polish-Balkan (17 October 1936)
Re-Organised: 14–22 October 1936 as XI "Hans Beimler" International Brigade. The battalions were renamed as follows:
 Commune de Paris Battalion (after the Paris Commune. (Formerly 1st Franco-Belge)
 Edgar André Battalion (after Edgar André). (Formerly 2nd Austro-German)
 Garibaldi Battalion (after Giuseppe Garibaldi). (Formerly 3rd Italo-Español)
 Dabrowski Battalion (pronounced Dombrowski), (after Jarosław Dąbrowski). (Formerly 4th Polish-Balkan)
Minor Re-Organisation: 3 November 1936
 Garibaldi Battalion, as it had no rifles, was transferred to XII Brigade
 Thaelmann Battalion joined XI Brigade from XII Brigade
 Asturias-Heredia Battalion (Spanish) joined XI Brigade.

Brigade staff