[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

battalions and 50 police dogs to Colonel Coloman Ambruș, for the single purpose of hunting down Ion Gavrilă Ogoranu and his anti-communist guerillas hiding out in the Făgăraș Mountains. The display of force was largely futile, and Ogoranu was still free to engage in hit-and-run tactics during 1954.

Political isolation
The 1952–1954 period marked a reaffirmation of socialist legality by the Central Committee, which, after ensuring new procedures for arrests, restated that only prosecutors could initiate arrests. The resolution was in practice ignored, with Pintilie asking Prosecutor General to send him 20,000 blank arrest warrants. In one of his statements, he also acknowledged that the new regulations acted as a deterrent for Securitate abuse: "Now a prosecutor may enter [the building] as he pleases, can visit someone under arrest or access their files. I would've never dreamed this was possible." At some point during these developments, Gheorghiu-Dej had received a report on the Pitești Experiment from Vintilă Weiss. A former officer of the Securitate, the latter had been arrested by counterintelligence for his contacts with French diplomats; he had passed through Gherla, where the experiment was being replicated, and was dying from the injuries of torture. Alarmed by the Weiss testimony, which threatened the power of intelligence agencies, Internal Affairs ordered Pintilie to report on the matter. The Securitate subsequently attempted a cover-up. As a trial was being prepared in 1953, Colonel Ludovic Cseller was found dead in an apparent suicide. According to documentarian Cicerone Ionițoiu, it is possible that this had been staged by Pintilie and Nicolschi, who wished to preserve secrecy about their own "direct role as instigators". One prisoner, tortured by the Securitate to become a witness for the prosecution, reports seeing Nicolschi directly involved in the effort to obtain confessions.

Writing in 2016, Tismăneanu similarly argued that Pintilie was personally involved in assessing the results of "reeducational" torture; the same author notes that evidence regarding his involvement was not yet available, as much had been "carefully removed" by the perpetrators themselves. Țurcanu and 15 other torturer-inmates were sentenced to death in late 1954, but, as Boldur-Lățescu writes, "the real culprits", Pintilie included, "were never investigated, sanctioned, or sentenced by a penal court." Writer Niculae Gheran, who relies on things heard from a political prisoner, defines Nicolschi and Pintilie as the "stage directors" of the experiment, claiming that the two kept photographs and magnetic tapes showing the results, to replicate if needed. George Pavel Vuza, who served as Deputy Prosecutor General in 1954–1958, recalls that Pintilie and General Gheorghe Bucșan had ordered him to perform an investigation into the various penal facilities. The document he produced in March 1955 described in some detail the poor hygiene, failure to provide basic healthcare, and "miserable food", placing blame for all these on Drăghici; Gheorghiu-Dej took notice, asking for remedial action to be put in motion.

Though he lost his seat on the Central Committee on December 28, 1955, the regime still honored the Lieutenant General, who received the Medal of Labor in 1956, and the August 23 Order, Third Class, in 1959. An attack on Pintilie's work was produced in 1955 by Apostol, who reported to Dej that Pintilie's recruitment drive among the workers was not an improvement: the people brought in "had no appetite for work even back when they were in the factories". As reported by Pleșiță, Pintilie was at the time infringing on Romania's national interest, allowing Soviet companies to mine uranium ore out of Ștei, and using Romanian Army recruits as labor: "General Dumitrașcu [...] was sending reports [on this matter] to Pantiușa (Pintilie), who was a Russian agent. Have a guess as to what effect those reports had". Pleșiță further claims that the party leadership was slow to react, since "Dej could not wrap his head around the uranium issue."