[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS Herbert J. Thomas

ruary, Herbert J. Thomas joined the 7th Fleet Striking Force and screened the carriers launching strikes on North Korea. From 4 April to 19 May she was assigned electronics countermeasure duties in addition to call fire missions on gun emplacements and radar stations, effectively checking the enemy.

Herbert J. Thomas joined Task Force 72 on 12 June and operated out of Kaoshiung, Formosa enforcing the blockade between Formosa and the communist Chinese mainland. Sailing from Yokosuka on 14 August she reached Long Beach on 30 August, from whence she proceeded to Mare Island for overhaul and armament conversion. Herbert J. Thomas departed on 5 May 1954 for her fourth tour in the Far East. After operating in the Philippines and out of Yokosuka, she proceeded on 23 July to Kaoshiung to take up patrol duty. Returning to Long Beach on 5 December, she spent the next five months operating with the carrier  in that area. From 14 June 1955 to 1 March 1958 Herbert J. Thomas made three more deployments to the Far East. During these tours she operated with the fast carrier task forces and had duty on the Taiwan Patrol, helping to stabilize the Chinese situation and protect vital American interests.

On 25 October 1958 Herbert J. Thomas deployed again with other units of the 7th Fleet to the Far East, serving with pride as a good-will ambassador for the United States. She trained with Japanese destroyers in antisubmarine exercises and operated again with fast carrier groups. On 4 July 1959 the Herbert J. Thomas represented the United States Navy by firing a twenty-one-gun salute at the Alaska statehood ceremony in Sitka. Upon entry to the harbor, the Thomas dropped anchor in waters at least one fathom greater than the length of its anchor chain.  And, due to a hang-fire, the ship actually gave Alaska a twenty-two-gun salute. The ship deployed regularly to the Far East until 9 July 1963 when she entered Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Vallejo, California and remained in commission in reserve for a 12½-month modernization overhaul. During the FRAM I conversion, the destroyer received an entirely new superstructure – designed to protect the ship against biological and chemical agents as well as radioactive fallout – and the Antisubmarine Rocket (RUR-5 ASROC) system.

Vietnam War
Returning to full commission on 31 July 1965, Herbert J. Thomas completed her FRAM I conversion on 30 August (reverting to DD-833 on 1 April 1964) and operated along the West Coast until sailing for the Far East on 14 September 1966. Arriving at "Yankee Station" off South Vietnam on 16 October, she joined CTG 77.7 in screening  during strikes against communist targets ashore. She retired toward the Philippines on 16 November, arriving Subic Bay three days later en route to Taiwan for patrol duty in the Strait of Formosa on 24 November through 16 December. Back off Vietnam on 19 December, Herbert J. Thomas aided ground forces with three weeks of naval gunfire support.

Following a short period of carrier escort duty on "Yankee Station" in mid-January, Herbert J. Thomas sailed for home on 5 February 1967 arriving in San Diego via Yokosuka on the 24th. After leave and upkeep, the warship conducted refresher training and local operations through the summer and fall.

The destroyer departed California for a Far East cruise on 28 December.  On 19 January, after stopping for fuel, the Thomas departed Pearl Harbor en route to Yokosuka, Japan.  However, plans were soon changed.  On 23 January, North Korean forces seized the USS Pueblo in the Sea of Japan and took the ship into Wonsan Harbor.  The Thomas was ordered to divert from Yokosuka and to join up with the US forces, including the carriers Enterprise, Yorktown, and Ticonderoga, which were assembling in the Sea of Japan.  On 1 February, the Thomas entered the Sea of Japan via the Korean Strait and began operating with the carrier USS Yorktown.  The Thomas had to go to Sasebo, Japan, from 8 to 12 February to repair the fresh water evaporator, but quickly returned to the Sea of Japan and remained on station there until 1 March when she departed and headed for Subic Bay.

Arriving at "Yankee Station" via Japan and the Philippines on 14 March 1968. The warship conducted shore bombardment missions off II and III Corps areas of responsibility in April and May as part of the Vietnamese counter-offensive after Tet, targeting enemy concentrations ashore. The destroyer also conducted patrols off Taiwan in June before sailing home on 15 June, arriving in San Diego via Sasebo on 5 July. Herbert J. Thomas spent the last three months of the year in overhaul at Long Beach.