[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Franciszka Urszula Radziwiłłowa

Franciszka Urszula Radziwiłł (February 13, 1705, Chartorysk – May 23, 1753, Navahrudak), was a Polish writer and playwright, the first female writer on the territory of modern Poland and Belarus. She was a Princess, the last female representative of the Wiśniowiecki noble house and a wife of Michał Kazimierz "Rybeńko" Radziwiłł.

Biography
Franciszka Urszula (Polish: Franciszka Urszula Radziwiłł, Belarusian: Францішка Уршуля Радзівіл) was the only child of famous and wealthy parents. Her father Prince Janusz Antoni Wiśniowiecki (1678–1741) was the Castellan of Kraków, governor of Vilna and Kraków, mayor of Pinsk, while his wife Teofila (1680–1757) was a member of Leszczyński family and a daughter of the Royal epicalyx and cupbearer, governor of Podlasie, mayor of Kovel and Kamenetz.

Franciszka Urszula Radziwiłł received excellent education at home: spoke several European languages, knew the world literature, and wrote poetry. The Wiśniowiecki house was a creative atmosphere: Franciszka Urszula's father was a talented speaker and writer, he wrote religious tracts, eulogies and religious songs. At his Court in Czartorysk there was an active Chapel, also, the uncle of Princess Michał Serwacy Wiśniowiecki had the Court Theatre, and perhaps he wrote plays for it.

On April 23, 1725 Franciszka Urszula married Michał Kazimierz Radziwiłł "Rybeńko", maecenas and head of the most wealthy family in the country. He was the IX ordinate of Nesvizh (later – the great Lithuanian hetman). In marriage they had four children: Karol Stanisław "Panie Kochanku" Radziwiłł (1734–1790), Janusz Tadeusz (1734–1750), Teofilia Konstancja Radziwiłłówna (1738–1818), and Katarzyna Karolina Radziwiłł (1740–1789).

It was impossible to imagine life in Nesvizh without the festivals, banquets, hunts, rallies, parades and games in those days. At the initiative of Franciszka Urszula there was theatre added to that – entertainment of royal level: in Warsaw the theatrical performances were initiated only by kings Augustus II the Strong and Augustus III of Poland.

Prince Michał was often away to participate in the parliament and tribunals as well as make regular detour of their other lands, so the young princess personally made decisions on majority questions in management and leadership in Nesvizh. She led the restoration of the Nesvizh castle after devastating wars with Sweden, protected Nesvizh from raids of Russian army in the 1730s, has streamlined and expanded the Library, restored the printing house.

Very rarely leaving Nesvizh, she unfolded a great cultural propaganda and Christian outreach. Talents in literature and fine arts allowed Franciszka Urszula to make Nesvizh one of the centres of cultural life in the kingdom in a very short period.

Theatrical passion of Michał Kazimierz and Franciszka Urszula began in 1740, when first time in Nesvizh Castle a foreign troupe staged a play called "The Example of Justice”. Then productions were organised by own strength. Among the plays were Molière's comedy, Voltaire’s "Zaire", plays of other European authors. Full life of Radziwill theatre started after 1746, when Franciszka Urszula became its manager. That time her first dramatic works appeared. Almost every year the Princess wrote a few new plays of narrative content: in some Franciszka Urszula made accents to the need for education, in others – condemned unfaithful husbands or admired female goodness, sincerity. However, the dominant theme of her drama was love, as evidenced by the eloquent names of the plays: "Love – a biased judge", "Love – a skilled master," "Ingenious Love" and others.

The work of Franciszka Urszula Radziwiłł can be divided into two periods. The first (1725–45) was bilingual, and genres – mainly poetic and epistolary. The most fruitful period of dramatic art and theatre activities in Nesvizh was during 1746–52, when the princess led the cultural life in the castle herself.

The last stage play in the Nesvizh Theatre, according to “The Diary" of Michał Kazimierz Radziwill, dates December 27, 1752: it was "operetta of Europe" (i.e. opera "Happy unhappiness"). Earlier in October, the princess was ill so badly that even wrote a farewell letter to her husband. She lived for another six months. The disease, which retreated in the first months of 1753, suddenly escalated on May 18 when the princess, heading to Grodno, was forced to stay in Putsevichy, a village near Navahrudak. On May 19, she was transported to Navahrudak, where she died on 23 May 1753 in the house of the mayor of Bobrujsk.

Writing