[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

considered too cautious. On September 23, Sheridan replaced Averell with Powell. Henry Capehart was designated commander of Powell's old brigade, and Capehart's brother, Charles, became commander of the 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment. Powell's Second Cavalry Division pursued Early further south.

Battle of Cedar Creek
The Battle of Cedar Creek occurred on October 19, 1864. Early's Confederate Army appeared to have a victory until Sheridan rallied his troops to a successful counterattack. Although Union casualties were more than double those of the Confederates, this battle is considered a Union victory, and Confederate troops were driven from the battlefield. The Union troops recaptured all of their artillery lost earlier in the battle, and 22 additional cannons belonging to Early's army. Union cavalry were commanded by General Alfred Torbert. The 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment remained in the 2nd Brigade of Powell's Second Division. Powell positioned his division near Front Royal to prevent Confederate cavalry under General Lunsford L. Lomax from flanking the Union force. The 1st West Virginia Cavalry had a total of 3 casualties in this battle.

Nineveh
On November 12, the Second Division again fought Lomax's cavalry. Powell sent most of his 1st Brigade out beyond Front Royal, where it encountered a portion of Lomax's cavalry commanded by McCausland. The Confederates slowly pushed the 1st Brigade back. Powell brought Capehart's 2nd Brigade, including the 1st West Virginia Cavalry, to the front while the 1st Brigade moved to the rear. Capehart's brigade charged, resulting in a short clash that ended with the Confederates retreating as fast as they could. They were chased for . Powell captured all of the rebel artillery (two guns), their ammunition train, and took 180 prisoners. Newspaper accounts said McCausland was slightly wounded. Two men from the 1st West Virginia Cavalry were awarded the Medal of Honor for actions in this battle. Private James F. Adams, from CompanyD, received his medal for "Capture of State flag of 14th Virginia Cavalry (C.S.A.)". The other medal winner was Sergeant Levi Shoemaker from CompanyA. His citation is "Capture of flag of 22d Virginia Cavalry (C.S.A.)". The Nineveh action, plus actions at Newtown or Middletown and Cedar Creek fought by other Union cavalry divisions on the same day, totaled to 184 Union casualties (killed, wounded or missing).

Third Division
Powell resigned from the Union Army on January 5, 1865. His father had died and his mother was seriously ill. Sheridan reorganized his 8,000-man force into two cavalry divisions. General Wesley Merritt was Sheridan's cavalry commander. General Thomas Devin led the First Division, and Custer commanded the Third Division. There was no Second Division. The 1st West Virginia Cavalry became part of the 3rd Brigade, Third Division Cavalry Corps. The brigade consisted of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd West Virginia Cavalry Regiments, and the 1st Regiment New York (Lincoln) Cavalry, and was commanded by Henry Capehart. These four regiments had been most of Averell's force that had a major victory at Moorefield during August 1864. As a brigade, they had also performed extremely well three months later at Nineveh under Powell's command. The brigade became known as Capehart's Fighting Brigade, after its skills were noticed by Sheridan—who called it "the fighting brigade". Both divisions spent about six weeks in winter quarters, where they rested and were given fresh clothing. On February 27, they left Winchester and moved south. Their purpose was to eliminate Early's Army of the Valley.

Laurel Brigade
In late February, Early received additional troops which were supposed to enable him to attack instead of flee. The reinforcement was the elite Confederate cavalry known as the Laurel Brigade, and it was under the command of General Thomas L. Rosser. Many of the men in the proud and well–equipped Laurel Brigade had served with Stuart—the Confederacy's most famous cavalry officer. Early added his own cavalry to Rosser's command, and sent them toward Custer's approaching division. Rosser used rails to fill a covered bridge over the middle fork of the Shenandoah River, and this is where he planned to confront Custer.

At 2:00am, on March 1, Capehart's brigade was awakened and told to prepare to move without breakfast or feed for their horses. Their objective was to remove the obstacle of Rosser's cavalry, which would enable the rest of Custer's division to attack Early's army—which was thought to be between Harrisonburg and Staunton. At the covered bridge, Capehart sent a portion of his brigade, dismounted, to attack Rosser. The 1st West Virginia Cavalry was sent upriver where it crossed and then charged down on Rosser. The brigade drove off Rosser's cavalry, capturing 50 men and all of his artillery. Thus Custer, utilizing Capehart's brigade (including the 1st West Virginia Cavalry), defeated one of the Confederacy's best cavalries.