[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Star Wraith

tack shows the Alliance that the Federation is not responsible for this incident: The Vonari, an aggressive hostile race, destroyed both ships and that it is only the first step in a plan that includes an attack against earth, which the Alliance manages to prevent.

Star Wraith IV: Reviction (2004) 

The Vonari prepare the final attack on the Alliance. An enormous Vonari fleet meets in the Sol-system. Using an energy network, all ships of the fleet transfer their energy to the leading ship, carrying the weapon, that can destroy Earth. The Alliance has only one chance: If the energy network is saturated it will still take some time, until the weapon is ready to fire. If the leading ship is destroyed, while the energy network is saturated, a feedback impulse will destroy all ships in the network. The plan succeeds and the Vonari withdraw.

Arvoch Conflict (2006) 
When more and more Alliance forces defect to the Federation, the Alliance High-Command sends the carrier ship "ABC Phantom" into the Sapphire-system to search for an explanation. The crew learns that the Federation allied itself with the Vonari, in order to destroy the Alliance. A weapon of the Vonari is found, which have obviously the power to destroy an entire planet. The Alliance decides to use the weapon against its designers and to destroy the Vonari system of Arvoch.

Arvoch Alliance (2011) 
Arvoch Alliance is a first person 3D space combat simulation from StarWraith 3D Games. The player takes the role of a flight commander in the Alliance Navy, leading a team of pilots through a series of missions spanning the in-game region of space known as the Evochron quadrant. As the story unfolds, events that eventually lead to the end of the Federation/Alliance war and the liberation of Evochron take place. In the midst of an ongoing war, the return of the Vonari - an old extraterrestrial enemy in the series - signals a change in the course of the in-game human history as forces unite in a battle for survival.

Other games in the StarWraith universe

RiftSpace (2004) 
An ancient artifact with a prophecy is found. It is about the planet RiftSpace, which would provide its discoverer with great wealth. Many mercenaries begin the search for RiftSpace, but many further artifacts are needed to finally get the key to RiftSpace.

Evochron (2005) - discontinued

Evochron Alliance (2005)

Evochron Renegades (2007)

Evochron Renegades features a seamless universe, improved graphics, the ability to modify ships both in performance and visually in-game and many more improvements over Evochron Alliance.

Evochron Legends (2009)

Evochron Legends delivers further improvements to graphics and gameplay over Evochron Renegades.

Evochron Mercenary (2010)
Evochron Mercenary featured a new graphics engine and added many player requested features and changes.

Evochron Legacy (2016)
Evochron Legacy, the latest Evochron title, was released simultaneously on the StarWraith website and Steam on January 18, 2016, and continuously updated.

External links 
 Official StarWraith website - The demo versions of the games can be downloaded here and the licenses for full versions can be acquired.
 History of StarWraith, 3D Games - past, present, and future projects of SW3DG