[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Salih ibn Mirdas

29, the two sides fought at al-Uqhuwana, on the eastern shores of Lake Tiberias. For unknown reasons, Hassan and his forces fled in the heat of battle, leaving Salih and his men to face Anushtakin's army alone. The Kilab were decisively defeated and Salih, his youngest son and his vizier were slain.

After the battle, Salih's head was sent to Cairo and put on display, while his body was nailed to the gateway of Sidon, a town he had enjoyed residing in. Al-Ma'arri expressed in verse his regret at the manner of Salih's death and the defeat of the Kilab, whom he refers to by one of its branches, the Dibab: Ṣāliḥ has changed beyond recognition, and the Ḍibāb tribe of Qays are mere lizards (ḍibāb) who fear to be hunted.

The Fatimids proceeded to conquer Sidon, Baalbek, Homs, Rafaniyya and Hisn Ibn Akkar from Salih's deputy governors, who all fled. Salih had designated his second eldest son, Thimal, as his successor and left him in charge of Aleppo. His eldest son, Nasr, who fought at al-Uqhuwana, escaped the battle to wrest control of Aleppo. For a brief period, the two sons ruled Aleppo jointly with Nasr controlling the city and Thimal the citadel, until sometime in 1030 when Nasr compelled Thimal to relocate to al-Rahba. In 1038, Anushtakin killed Nasr and seized Aleppo, but Thimal later restored Mirdasid rule in the city, which continued, with occasional interruption, until 1080. The fall of the Mirdasids was followed by the reign of the Uqaylid Arab prince Muslim ibn Quraysh whose death in battle against the Seljuk Turks in 1085 signaled the definitive end of Arab rule in Aleppo, the virtual disappearance of Arab tribes from Syria's political scene and their replacement by Turkish and Kurdish dynasties.

See also
 Sayf al-Dawla, founder of the Hamdanid emirate of Aleppo

Notes

References

Bibliography
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

10th-century births
1029 deaths
Mirdasid emirs of Aleppo
Arab rebels
Year of birth unknown
Bedouin tribal chiefs
Rebellions against the Fatimid Caliphate
Syria under the Fatimid Caliphate
Monarchs killed in action
10th-century Arab people
11th-century Arab people