[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Canine reproduction

Canine reproduction is the process of sexual reproduction in domestic dogs, wolves, coyotes and other canine species.

Canine sexual anatomy and development

Male reproductive system

Erectile tissue
As with all mammals, a dog's penis is made up of three pieces of erectile tissue. These are the two corpora cavernosa and the singular corpus spongiosum which continues in the glans. A notable difference from the human penis is that the visible part during an erection consists entirely of the glans.

The Retractor muscle is attached at the shaft of the penis. It is a paired smooth muscle that is used to retract the penis back into the sheath.

Glans
A dog's glans consists of two sections: Behind the lower, long part (pars longa glandis) lies the "knot" (Bulbus glandis) which expands only after penetrating the vagina and causes the male dog to remain inside the bitch ("Tie") for some time after ejaculation (typically between 15 and 30 min). This increases the chance of fertilisation and prevents, albeit for a short time, other suites from mating with a particular female.

Behind the knot the penis is very flexible in the horizontal direction allowing the male to unmount while remaining tied.

Shaft
The shaft of a dogs penis is not visible, even during an erection; however its pathway can be felt starting at the knot passing between the hind legs and carrying on up to the anus.

Baculum and Urethra

Inside the corpus spongiosum lies the baculum. This allows the male dog to enter into the vagina before the erectile tissue is swollen. The urethra is located inside of a downward facing groove on the baculum and ends at the tip of the penis (urethral process).

During an erection a small dip just above the urethral process can be seen. This is because the skin at the tip of the penis is connected via cartilage to the baculum. When the erectile tissue swells, the size of the baculum and connective tissue remains constant, pulling back the skin at the tip.

Sheath
The penile sheath entirely surrounds the glans while not erect. The back part is intergrown with the abdominal skin. The front part, almost reaching to the navel, is free. The inner sheath, just like the glans, is covered with a mucous membrane and the outer sheath is covered with normal, hairy epidermis.

Female reproductive system

Development
In domestic dogs, sexual maturity (puberty) occurs between the ages of 6 and 12 months for both males and females, although this can be delayed until up to two years of age for some large breeds. Pregnancy is possible as soon as the first estrus cycle, but breeding is not recommended prior to the second cycle. As with other domesticated species, domestication has selectively bred for higher libido, and earlier and more frequent breeding cycles in dogs than in their ancestors.

The female reproductive cycle

Female cycle
The average length of the reproductive cycle for females is 2–4 weeks. Females reach sexual maturity (puberty) between 8 and 18 months of age. There is a tremendous variability in the maturation age between breeds, and even within a breed of dog.

1. Proestrus, in which eggs in the ovaries begin to mature and estrogen levels begin to rise, is the first stage of the reproductive cycle. During this stage females, though non-receptive, attract males. Initial changes include swelling of the vulva lips, which become pliable, small amounts of bloody vaginal discharge, frequent urination, and signs of restlessness. Proestrus generally lasts nine days.

2. Estrus follows, in which estrogen levels are high, mature eggs are released from both ovaries, and females become receptive both physically and mentally to copulation. Only during estrus will copulation result in pregnancy.

During proestrus and estrus, females may have a clear, blood tinged, or bloody discharge. Dogs during these stages are often informally referred to as being in heat. The length of these cycles varies greatly among breeds and even between individuals of the same breed. Proestrus and estrus can last anywhere from 5 days to 21 days.

3. Diestrus is the period following mating. Diestrus lasts approximately 56 to 60 days in a pregnant female, and 60 to 100 days in a non-pregnant female. During both of these periods, progesterone levels are high. Because the hormonal profile of a pregnant female and a female in diestrus are the same, sometimes a non-pregnant female will go through a period of pseudo-pregnancy.  At that time she may gain weight, have mammary gland development, produce milk, and exhibit nesting behaviours.

4. Anestrus is the remaining period, the time of reproductive quiescence. The female has no attraction to mating. Anestrus generally lasts four to five months.

Copulation