[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Human rights defender

ers and endorsed by leading human rights experts and jurists.

Several countries have introduced national legislation or policies to protect human rights defenders including Colombia, Brazil, Mexico, and Guatemala; however, key challenges in implementation remain.

Awards for human rights defenders 

 The United Nations Prize in the Field of Human Rights in 1998.
 The Martin Ennals Award, a collaboration of several human rights NGOs. Martin Ennals was a renowned human rights defender and secretary general of Amnesty International. Its secretariat is located at the OMCT office in Geneva. The award carries a grant of at least 20,000 Swiss Francs (about 20,000 US dollars) to be used for further work in the field of human rights.
 The Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award, established in 1984.
 The Sakharov Prize, established in 1988 by the European Parliament.  Laureates include: Nelson Mandela, Malala Yousafzai, the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo, Raif Badawi.
 The Human Rights Defenders Tulip, established by the Netherlands government in 2008.
 Several human rights defenders have received the Nobel Peace Prize, such as imprisoned Chinese human rights activist Liu Xiaobo who won the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize for his "long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China".
 The Front Line Defenders Award for Human Rights Defenders at Risk, established in 2005 to 'honour the work of a human rights defender who, through non-violent work, is courageously making an outstanding contribution to the promotion and protection of the human rights of others.'
 The Ginetta Sagan award for Women Human Rights Defenders, established in 1997 "to help women throughout the world in their struggle to overcome oppression, to let them know that they are not alone". Awardees include Hina Jilani, Sonia Pierre, Lydia Cacho, Julienne Lusenge.
 The Nuremberg International Human Rights Award, established by the city of Nuremberg; the inaugural award was made in 1995.
 The Cao Shunli Memorial Award for Human Rights Defenders, first awarded in 2015, named after Chinese lawyer and activist Cao Shunli. The award is given by Chinese Human Rights Defenders.

Electronic mapping 

Electronic mapping is a newly developed tool using electronic networks and satellite imagery and tracking.  Examples include tactical mapping, crisis mapping and geo-mapping.  Tactical mapping has been primarily used in tracking human rights abuses by providing visualization of the tracking and implementation monitoring.

Examples of HRDs 

In 2017, Human rights lawyer Emil Kurbedinov, a Crimean Tatar, won the 2017 Award for Frontline Human Rights Defenders at Risk. Kurbedinov has been an avid defender of civil society militants, mistreated Crimean Tatars, and members of the media. He documents violations of human rights during searches of activists' residences as well as emergency responses. In January 2017, the Crimean Center for Counteracting Extremism arrested and detained the lawyer. He was taken to a local facility of the Russian Federal Security Service for questioning.  A district tribunal ruled that Kurbedinov was guilty of doing propaganda work for terrorist groups and organizations. He was sentenced to 10 days of imprisonment.

See also 

 Land defender
 List of human rights organisations
 Global justice
 Global Human Rights Defence
 Human Rights Logo
 International human rights instruments
 National human rights institutions
 Networked advocacy
 Protection International
 Youth for Human Rights International

References

External links 

 United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner
 UN Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms
 Who is a defender (OHCHR)
 International Service for Human Rights: Working to support Human Rights Defenders
 Amnesty International: Protecting Human Rights Defenders
 Front Line: The International Foundation for the Protection of Human Rights Defenders at Risk
 International Federation for Human Rights – Human rights defenders programme of FIDH
 The Human rights defenders programme of the OMCT
 Martin Ennals Award
 Human Rights Defenders Tulip

 
Civil rights and liberties