[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# History of Bridgeport, Connecticut

and Police Departments in the rescue and recovery effort.

In 1991, the city filed for bankruptcy protection but was declared solvent by a federal court.

21st century
While Bridgeport has seen population growth in the 21st century, problems of violent crime, poverty, and corruption have persisted.

A number large-scale projects have been proposed, and completed in Bridgeport's downtown. In July 2021, the city opened the Hartford HealthCare Amphitheater, a large outdoor amphitheater that hosts concerts. Numerous large projects have been proposed for the city's Steel Point section, including two separate proposals to build a casino, although plans have been hampered by industrial contamination in the area's soil.

During the 21st century, many of Bridgeport's historic buildings have been converted to residential uses. In 2004, the former flagship store of Read's Department Stores on Broad Street was converted into a place for artists to live and work. In 2007, the former headquarters of regional bank Citytrust Bancorp was converted to a 117-unit apartment building. The Great Recession hurt Bridgeport's economy, including real estate development, which saw numerous projects halted and slowed down. In 2009, the City Council approved a new master plan for development designed both to promote redevelopment in selected areas and to protect existing residential neighborhoods. In 2010, the Bridgeport Housing Authority and a local health center announced plans to build a $20 million medical and housing complex at Albion Street, making use of federal stimulus funds and designed to replace some of the housing lost with the demolition of Father Panik Village.

Then-President George W. Bush spoke before a small, selected group of Connecticut business people and officials about health care reform at the Playhouse on the Green, just across the street from McLevy Hall, in 2006.

Gallery

See also

National Register of Historic Places listings in Bridgeport, Connecticut
List of people from Bridgeport, Connecticut

Notes

References

External links
Bridgeport History Links
Bridgeport History in Postcards
Bridgeport Working: Voices from the 20th Century - Bridgeport Public Library
Bridgeport vaudeville theater history

 
Bridgeport, Connecticut