[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1st Information Operations Command (Land)

OPSEC Doctrine and Policy review
	Supports DA G34 Protection Assessments
	Cyber Support Detachment Functions
	Executes equipment procurement and lifecycle management
	Maintains remote operation capabilities
	Builds and Maintains attack Platforms
	Tool/exploit development

Army Reserve Element (ARE)

The Army Reserve Element (ARE) has administrative control of U.S. Army Reserve personnel assigned to 1st Information Operations Command. It provides trained and ready soldiers in support of 1st Information Operations Command's global mission to operationally integrate information operations, defend cyberspace, and provide reach-back planning and analysis for military stakeholders. On 3 December 2013, the ARE won 1st and 3rd places in the annual DC3 Digital Forensic Challenge. The Defense Cyber Crime Center Digital Forensic Challenge, provides digital artifacts comparable to what Soldiers might examine in a real-world cybersecurity situation. DC3 asked players to identify hidden files, perform analysis of suspicious network traffic, analyze registry entries and recover user passwords.

Command responsibilities

Operations
Acting as an operations center, an intelligence analysis center, and a communications hub, the 1st IO CMD Information Dominance Center (IDC) is the focal point of all 1st IO CMD activities in support of the Army and of Joint Task Force-Global Network Operations. 1st IO CMD teams deployed worldwide are continuously linked to the IDC via a number of communications means. Some examples of these communication means are common user circuits, strategic communications links, and dedicated satellite terminals. The IOC performs as a typical command operations center, maintaining the status of IO events worldwide, and orchestrating the activities of 1st IO's deployed teams and internal supporting activities.

Analysis
As an analysis center, the IDC provides dedicated support to 1st IO CMD's deployed teams and the commands they serve. Tailored analytical products are generated, frequently on a quick-response basis, to meet a deployed team's immediate needs. The IDC also monitors potential trouble spots worldwide, preparing to support contingency operations with IO-related products should the need arise. The IDC uses high-capacity communications links to access selected information from a number of databases maintained by a number of other commands, agencies, and organizations. In addition to providing IO support to the operations process, the IDC provides an advanced environment to leverage new technologies and explore emerging concepts. The IDC also provides support to exercises.

Communications
The IDC's communications capability serves both operational and analytical functions by using a variety of links to supported commands and deployed 1st IO CMD teams. The IDC also has access to DoD and non-DoD government organizations participating in IO at the National level, and exchanges information with intelligence organizations possessing IO information and subject matter expertise. Collectively, the ability to communicate worldwide permits the small number of analysts resident in the IDC to provide tailored assessments rapidly and efficiently. Finally, in support of the Army Computer Emergency Response Team (ACERT), the IDC uses communications to flash computer intrusion alerts and countermeasures across the Army.

See also
 List of cyber warfare forces

References

External links 
 1st Information Operations Command Shoulder Sleeve and Distinctive Unit Insignia, from the Institute of Heraldry
 Unit home page
 Land Information Warfare Activity (LIWA)/Information Dominance Center, Federation of American Scientists

001
Military units and formations established in the 2000s
Information operations units and formations