[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Form I-9

Form I-9, officially the Employment Eligibility Verification, is a United States Citizenship and Immigration Services form. Mandated by the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, it is used to verify the identity and legal authorization to work of all paid employees in the United States. All U.S. employers must ensure proper completion of Form I-9 for each individual they hire for employment in the United States.

Requirements
The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) required employers to verify that all newly hired employees presented facially valid documentation verifying the employee's identity and legal authorization to accept employment in the United States. The I-9 form, or more properly the Employment Eligibility Verification Form, is provided by the federal government for that purpose. 

Every employee hired after November 6, 1986 must complete an I-9 form at the time of hire. Employees must complete Section 1 of the form upon commencing employment. The employer must complete Section 2 within three days of the employee's starting date at work. The employer is responsible for ensuring that the forms are completed properly and in a timely manner. 

The I-9 is not required for unpaid volunteers or for contractors. However, a company could still find itself liable if it contracts work to a contractor it knows either is or employs unauthorized workers. 

Multiple versions of Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification, have been issued since the form was first introduced in 1987; not all versions are valid for use. Currently, only forms showing the following revision date are valid: "Rev. 07/17/2017 N*".

If an employee cannot read or cannot write in English, a translator or preparer may complete the form and sign it on behalf of the employee. The form also requires the employee's own signature.

In October 2004, new legislation made it possible to complete the I-9 electronically.

Prerequisites for employees
In completing form I-9, prospective employees attest, under penalty of perjury, that they are in one of the following categories:

 A U.S. citizen,
 A U.S. non-citizen national,
 A lawful permanent resident or
 An alien authorized to work.

Documentation for proof of identity or employment authorization
With the form, prospective employees must provide documents that prove their eligibility to work. A variety of documents are acceptable. The prospective employee must provide either:

 One document that establishes both identity and employment eligibility (on List A on the I-9)
 One document that establishes identity (on List B) together with another document that establishes employment eligibility (on List C).
 
All documents must be unexpired

List A
Documents that may be used under "List A" of the I-9 form to establish both identity and employment eligibility include:

 An unexpired U.S. Passport,
 A U.S. Passport Card,
 A Permanent Resident Card (often called a "green card") or Alien Registration Receipt Card with photograph,
 An unexpired Temporary Resident Card,
 An unexpired foreign passport with an I-551 stamp, or with Form I-94 (For the certain alien who is authorized to work with restrictions. The person should also attach the documents which indicate an unexpired employment authorization.),
 An unexpired Employment Authorization Document issued by the United States Department of Homeland Security that includes a photograph (Form I-766) or
 An unexpired Employment Authorization Card.

List B
Documents that may be used under "List B" of the I-9 to establish identity include:

 Driver's license or identification card issued by a U.S. state or outlying possession of the U.S. provided it contains a photograph or identifying information such as name, date of birth, sex, height, eye color and address;
 Federal or state identification card provided it contains a photograph or identifying information such as name, date of birth, sex, height, eye color and address;
 School identification card with photograph;
 U.S. Armed Services identification card or draft record;
 Voter Registration Card;
 U.S. Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Card;
 Native American tribal document;
 Driver's license issued by a Canadian government authority or
 Trusted traveler documentation (Global Entry, NEXUS, SENTRI).

For individuals under the age of eighteen, the following documents may be used to establish identity:

 School record or report card;
 Clinic, doctor or hospital record or
 Daycare or nursery school record.

Employees who supply an item from List B (to establish identity) must also supply an item from List C (to establish employment eligibility).