[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dragan Primorac

Science, Education and Sports between 2003 and 2009. He completed his first term (2003–2007) without any party affiliation.  According to the International Republican Institute survey of October 1, 2007, he was rated as the most successful minister in the Croatian Government with 31% approval rate.

Primorac was at first not a member of a political party, before he joined the Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) in September 2007.  At the Croatian parliamentary election, 2007, he ran as a candidate of HDZ in the 11th electoral unit (the so-called Croatian diaspora list), and their list won almost 82% of the votes. After elections he did not join the Parliament and was named a minister again in January 2008. Because of proposed reduction of the budget for the Ministry of education, science and sports, and especially due to the canceling the project of free textbooks and free transport for pupils of primary and secondary schools in Croatia he announced his resignation. He resigned on July 7, 2009. Soon after, he made an unprecedented move, and he gave up his seat in the Croatian parliament to the Party. The Party then gave the seat to Goran Maric, who replaced Primorac while he was minister.  On November 9, 2009, Primorac formally announced his candidacy in the Croatian presidential election, 2009. He was subsequently summarily removed from HDZ membership. In the first round of the election he won 5.93% of the vote and did not qualify for the second round.

Primorac entered the first government of Ivo Sanader in December 2003. Primorac's commitment to build a society based on knowledge and to acknowledge the key role of education and science has been reflected in a growing investment into the education and science system, with the budget increase between 2004 and 2009 totaling 56% (€ EUR 600,000,000). At the same time an additional (approx. €600,000,000) have been approved and used for building University Campuses in Croatia. Within the education and science system, over 9,900 new jobs have been created since 2004 in order to ensure optimum implementation of reforms. All together it represents the biggest investment in the education and science sector as well as the largest creation of jobs in this sector in the recent history of Croatia

In 2005, the Ministry of Education under Primorac started a project called the Croatian national education standard for elementary schools ("HNOS") which was supposed to be applied in all schools in 2006, but was applied during 2007. He also completed one of the most important projects during his term: Implementation of two foreign languages in Croatian primary schools.

Primorac proposed the National Programme of Measures for the Implementation of Compulsory Secondary Education to Croatian Parliament, based on Article 80 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. During its session on June 21, 2007, Parliament adopted the program as the optimal model to solve the problems of poor education structure of Croatian population, and the frequency of early school dropouts.

Within the National Programme of Measures for the Implementation of Compulsory Secondary Education, a series of incentives, such as free textbooks, free transport and housing in student dormitories have been offered to make secondary education accessible to everyone. In 2006, Minister Primorac introduced the concept of free textbooks and announced that all pupils of elementary schools and pupils of the first class of secondary schools will have their schoolbooks funded by the Government. On May 12, 2009, Primorac announced that the Ministry reached a deal with the publishers of schoolbooks in Croatia so that the Government would pay for the schoolbooks of all classes (including second, third and fourth grades of secondary schools), for the sum of 440 million kunas, the same prices as the year before.

During 2008 he introduced for the first time in Croatia, independent external evaluation of education "National exams", while in 2009, he launched the State Matura (national standard tests equal to SAT) for all students who are planning to continue their education in Universities.

Under his leadership, the Ministry also applied the Bologna process in the academic year 2005/2006.

Within the area of a science project for the return of Croatian scientists from abroad was started and since 2004 over 120 scientists have returned to Croatia. The programme Unity through Knowledge yielded approximately 40 competitive research projects with returnee and Diaspora (Croatian professionals working abroad) participation.