[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of birds of the Bahamas

This is a list of the bird species recorded in the Bahamas. The avifauna of the Bahamas include a total of 386 species, according to Bird Checklists of the World (Avibase) as of July 2023. Of them, seven are endemic, 21 have been introduced by humans, and 212 are rare or accidental. Two species listed are extinct (including one of the endemics) and two have been extirpated.

This list is presented in the taxonomic sequence of the Check-list of North and Middle American Birds, 7th edition through the 63rd Supplement, published by the American Ornithological Society (AOS). Common and scientific names are also those of the Check-list, except that the common names of families are from the Clements taxonomy because the AOS list does not include them.

The following tags have been used to highlight several categories of occurrence.

(A) Accidental - a species that rarely or accidentally occurs in the Bahamas
(E) Endemic - a species endemic to the Bahamas
(I) Introduced - a species introduced to the Bahamas as a consequence, direct or indirect, of human actions
(Ex) Extinct - a species which has ceased to exist
(Er) Extirpated - a species that no longer occurs in the Bahamas although populations exist elsewhere

Ducks, geese, and waterfowl
Order: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae

Anatidae includes the ducks and most duck-like waterfowl, such as geese and swans. These birds are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet, flattened bills, and feathers that are excellent at shedding water due to an oily coating.

Black-bellied whistling-duck, Dendrocygna autumnalis (A)
West Indian whistling-duck, Dendrocygna arborea
Fulvous whistling-duck, Dendrocygna bicolor (A)
Snow goose, Anser caerulescens (A)
Ross's goose, Anser rossii (A)
Greater white-fronted goose, Anser albifrons (A)
Brant, Branta bernicla (A)
Canada goose, Branta canadensis (A)
Egyptian goose, Alopochen aegyptiaca (I)
Muscovy duck, Cairina moschata
Wood duck, Aix sponsa (A)
Blue-winged teal, Spatula discors
Cinnamon teal, Spatula cyanoptera (A)
Northern shoveler, Spatula clypeata (A)
Gadwall, Mareca strepera (A)
Eurasian Wigeon, Mareca penelope (A)
American wigeon, Mareca americana (A)
Mallard, Anas platyrhynchos
American black duck, Anas rubripes (A)
Mottled duck, Anas fulvigula (A)
White-cheeked pintail, Anas bahamensis
Northern pintail, Anas acuta (A)
Green-winged teal, Anas carolinensis (A)
Canvasback, Aythya valisineria (A)
Redhead, Aythya americana (A)
Ring-necked duck, Aythya collaris
Greater scaup, Aythya marila (A)
Lesser scaup, Aythya affinis
White-winged scoter, Melanitta deglandi (A)
Bufflehead, Bucephala albeola (A)
Hooded merganser, Lophodytes cucullatus (A)
Red-breasted merganser, Mergus serrator (A)
Masked duck, Nomonyx dominicus (A)
Ruddy duck, Oxyura jamaicensis (A)

New World quail
Order: GalliformesFamily: Odontophoridae

The New World quails are small, plump terrestrial birds only distantly related to the quails of the Old World, but named for their similar appearance and habits.

Northern bobwhite, Colinus virginianus (I)

Pheasants, grouse, and allies
Order: GalliformesFamily: Phasianidae

The Phasianidae are a family of terrestrial birds which consists of quails, partridges, snowcocks, francolins, spurfowls, tragopans, monals, pheasants, peafowls, and jungle fowls. In general, they are plump (although they vary in size) and have broad, relatively short wings.

Ring-necked pheasant, Phasianus colchicus (I)
Indian peafowl, Pavo cristatus (I)
Red junglefowl, Gallus gallus (I)

Flamingos
Order: PhoenicopteriformesFamily: Phoenicopteridae

Flamingos are gregarious wading birds, usually  tall, found in both the Western and Eastern Hemispheres. Flamingos filter-feed on shellfish and algae. Their oddly shaped beaks are specially adapted to separate mud and silt from the food they consume and, uniquely, are used upside-down.

American flamingo, Phoenicopterus ruber

Grebes
Order: PodicipediformesFamily: Podicipedidae

Grebes are small to medium-large freshwater diving birds. They have lobed toes and are excellent swimmers and divers. However, they have their feet placed far back on the body, making them quite ungainly on land.

Least grebe, Tachybaptus dominicus
Pied-billed grebe, Podilymbus podiceps
Red-necked grebe, Podiceps grisegena (A)
Eared grebe, Podiceps nigricollis (A)

Pigeons and doves
Order: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae

Pigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.