[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Autonomous detection system

Autonomous Detection Systems (ADS), also called biohazard detection systems or autonomous pathogen detection systems, are designed to monitor air or water in an environment and to detect the presence of airborne or waterborne chemicals, toxins, pathogens, or other biological agents capable of causing human illness or death. These systems monitor air or water continuously and send real-time alerts to appropriate authorities in the event of an act of bioterrorism or biological warfare.

History 
In the United States, an ADS system (BDS) was developed for the U.S. Postal Service following the 2001 anthrax attacks. The first detection systems in U.S. postal services were installed in 2006. To counter such problems in the future, the United States federal government set up a program called BioWatch, which operates in more than 21 cities in the US.

In Canada, an autonomous pathogen detection system was developed by a biotechnology company called Kraken Sense for the Greater Toronto Airports Authority (GTAA) during the COVID-19 pandemic.

BioWatch 
The BioWatch program is funded and supervised by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The BioWatch program has three main components: sampling, analysis, and response. Each of these components is handled by three different agencies. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) handles the sampling component: the sensors that collect airborne particles. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) coordinates the analysis and laboratory testing of the samples. Local authorities are responsible for the public health response to positive findings. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is designated as the lead agency for the law enforcement response if a bioterrorism event is detected. (Shea and Lister, 2003)

Kraken Sense GTAA Biosurveillance 
Using the KRAKEN autonomous qPCR device, Kraken Sense monitored airport wastewater for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 variants, such as Omicron, and Monkeypox to act as an early warning system for infectious diseases entering the country. This program was funded in part by the National Research Council Canada Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP).

Mechanism 
APDS monitors air and water for the three types of biological threat agents: bacteria, viruses, and toxins. The autonomous detection system is capable of (1) rapidly processing and accurately analyzing aerosol or water samples with a high level of confidence; (2) automating and integrating the major system functions into the detector, including sample collection, preparation, analysis, and analytical results reporting; (3) operating in its intended indoor and outdoor environments; and (4) disseminating and archiving analysis results and system operational data via the C3 network, known as the BioWatch Gen-3 Operations Support Service.

APDS operates continuously; the system can detect low concentrations of bioagents that might go undetected by a system that is triggered only when the overall number of particles in the air is high. APDS collects samples, prepares them for analysis, and tests for multiple biological agents. This automation reduces the cost and staffing that would be required to manually analyze samples.

As APDS collects air or water samples, it first runs them through an immunoassay detector. If that detector returns a positive result, APDS performs a second assay based on nucleic-acid amplification and detection. Having two different assay systems increases system reliability and minimizes the possibility of false positives.

The immunoassay detector incorporates liquid arrays, a multiplexed assay that uses small-diameter polystyrene beads (microbeads) coated with thousands of antibodies. Each microbead is colored with a unique combination of red- and orange-emitting dyes. The number of agents that can be detected in a sample is limited only by the number of colored bead sets. When the sample is exposed to the beads, a bioagent, if present, binds to the bead with the appropriate antibody. A second fluorescently labeled antibody is then added to the sample, resulting in a highly fluorescent target for flow analysis. Preparing the sample and performing this first analysis takes less than 30 minutes.

Nucleic acid assays require amplification of one or more target sequences of nucleic acid. Short strands of single-stranded DNA are synthesized in known sequences and attached to spots in the array in a predetermined way Detection of these spots that contain hybridized target DNA allows one to the sequence of DNA in the unknown target. RNA readily hybridizes to form double-stranded structures to its complementary sequence (A-T, C-G, G-C, U-A). Thus, arrays of single-stranded DNA can be used to detect RNA via hybridization.

TABLE 1.1 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Prioritized List of Biological Threat Agentsa