[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Siege of the Alcázar

was on August 22 when a plane sent by Franco airlifted a trunk of food into the Alcázar along with a message to the defenders that the Army of Africa was on its way to relieve the garrison. By September 26, the Nationalist columns had reached the village of Bargas, four miles (6 km) north of Toledo.

The position of the Republicans in Toledo grew desperate and on the morning of September 27, they made a final assault on the Alcázar. The attack was repulsed and shortly after the Nationalists swarmed down from Bargas to end the siege. After the arrival of the main Nationalist force, most of the Republican troops fell back in disorder on Aranjuez.

Aftermath 

The symbolic value of the Alcázar grew as weeks went by, and the Republicans threw badly needed men, artillery and weapons into the fortress capture (instead of using them to confront Franco's northern advance through western Spain). The press was invited by the Republican government to witness the explosion of the mines and storming of the Alcázar on September 18, when the Prime minister Francisco Largo Caballero himself detonated the mine, but it would not be until September 29 that the press entered the Alcázar, this time by the invitation of the Nationalists, turning the whole affair into a huge propaganda victory for the Nationalists, undermining the Republican morale.

Franco's decision to relieve the defenders of the Alcázar was a controversial one at the time. Many of his advisers thought that he should have kept up the advance towards Madrid because the besiegers of the Alcázar would have been recalled to Madrid for its defense. However, Franco believed that the propaganda value of the Alcázar was more important and ordered the Army of Africa to relieve it. Indeed, when Franco arrived at the Alcázar one day after its relief, he was greeted by Moscardó, who said: "No further news in the Alcázar, my General. I give it to you destroyed, but with its honour preserved". Two days after the relief of the Alcázar, Franco was proclaimed Generalisimo and in October was declared the head of state.

The story of the siege was very interesting for foreign supporters of Franco, who would read the several books published in foreign languages, and would strive for meeting Moscardó when visiting wartime Spain. In December 1936 a delegation of Romanian Iron Guard led by Ion Moța and Vasile Marin presented a ceremonial sword to the survivors of the siege and announced the alliance of their movement with the Spanish Nationalists.

In popular culture 
The siege was the basis for the prize-winning 1940 Italian war film, L'assedio dell'Alcazar, directed by Augusto Genina. In Spanish, the film is known as Sin novedad en el Alcázar.

See also 

 List of Spanish Nationalist military equipment of the Spanish Civil War
 List of Spanish Republican military equipment of the Spanish Civil War

El Alcázar, a Spanish newspaper targeting the búnker, the hardline supporters of Francoism even after Franco's death.
Fifth Regiment
The closing section of The Dangerous Years by Gilbert Frankau, in which one of the characters and his wife are caught up in the siege.

References

General 
Eby, Cecil D. The Siege of the Alcazar. New York: Random House, 1965.
McNeill-Moss, Geoffrey. The Siege of the Alcázar: A History of the Siege of the Toledo Alcázar, 1936. London: Rich & Cowan; New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1937. . Moss arrived in Toledo three weeks after the end of the siege and stayed for three months, interviewing survivors and checking reports by Moscardó and the internal newspaper. It was re-published and translated several times. While Moss admires the defenders, he is careful in distinguishing his conjectures from oral reports.
Thomas, Hugh. The Spanish Civil War. New York: Harper & Brothers, 1961.

Notes

External links 

 Photographs of the siege and aftermath
 Moscardó diary excerpt and image of the Alcázar collapsing
 Satellite image from Google Maps

1936 in Spain
Alcazar 1936
Alcazar
Alcazar
Conflicts in 1936
Toledo, Spain
July 1936 events
August 1936 events
September 1936 events
History of the province of Toledo