[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Campbell Preston Breckinridge

He intended to admit black testimony in all cases and upheld Fayette County as an example that should be followed by the whole state.

As a U.S. Representative, Breckinridge had asked the commissioner of labor to retain a black Census Office worker who feared that he would be fired because of race.

He expressed admiration for both Booker T. Washington and W. E. B. DuBois. Comparing Booker T. Washington's Up From Slavery with DuBois' The Souls of Black Folk, he called both books "remarkable contributions" to literature and termed Souls "the most significant and remarkable utterance yet published by a negro." He recommended both books and both men to his readers.

A young black lawyer offered aid to Breckinridge during his 1894 problems, noting that he had helped many "young colored men" in their law careers. Breckinridge predicted a better day for race relations: "Barriers will be removed, prejudices will die, class distinctions be obliterated. Not at once, not in our day; not without fierce contest; not without heroism and sacrifice, but yet slowly, surely, the day grows stronger; the sun rises higher toward the better noon and the glad twilight." Echoing his father, he wrote: "The negro is a man and the race in its essential unity is one race. Of one blood were all men made."

Family and death

In 1859, Breckinridge married Lucia Clay. In 1861, he married Issa Desha; they were the parents of Sophonisba Breckinridge, Desha Breckinridge, and Robert Jefferson Breckinridge. In 1893, he married Louise Scott Wing. In 1893, Madeleine Pollard brought suit for breach of promise for his failure to make good on a promise of marriage. Breckinridge lost the ensuing court battle and shortly thereafter, failed to win reelection to Congress.

Breckinridge died November 18, 1904, and is interred in Lexington Cemetery.

See also
 Breckinridge family in the American Civil War
 Kentucky in the American Civil War
 List of federal political sex scandals in the United States

References

Further reading

External links

"Colonel William (Willie) Campbell Preston Breckinridge – 9th Kentucky Cavalry, C.S." — Article by Civil War historian/author Bryan S. Bush
Hon. Wm. C. P. Breckinridge, of Kentucky, "The Race Question" ''The Arena, Vol. 2 (June–November 1890), pp. 39–56
Breckinridge Biographies 1 at www.breckinridge.com
The Political Graveyard: Index to Politicians: Breckinridge at politicalgraveyard.com
"The Personal Freedom of the Individual" — Breckinridge's Speech at the State Federation of Labor Convention

1837 births
1904 deaths
Centre College alumni
Kentucky lawyers
People of Kentucky in the American Civil War
University of Louisville School of Law alumni
Breckinridge family
American people of English descent
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Kentucky
19th-century American politicians