[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Apache, The Bronx

g, a decision that will make other officers hate him and view him as a "stool pigeon". Murphy seems to be on the verge of quitting the force, when he sees the purse snatcher fleeing from a house he burglarized. Murphy and Corelli chase the robber, and the image freezes as Murphy leaps to tackle him.

Cast
 Paul Newman as John Joseph Vincent Murphy III
 Ed Asner as Dennis Connolly
 Ken Wahl as Andrew Corelli
 Danny Aiello as Morgan
 Rachel Ticotin as Isabella
 Pam Grier as Charlotte
 Kathleen Beller as Theresa
 Tito Goya as Jumper / Detective
 Miguel Piñero as Hernando
 Jaime Tirelli as Jose
 Clifford David as Dacey
 Sully Boyar as Dugan
 Dominic Chianese as Corelli's Father
 Michael Higgins as Heffernan
 Paul Gleason as Detective
 Randy Jurgensen as Cop at Bar
 Gilbert Lewis as Mob Leader
 Cleavant Derricks as Suspect #4
 Reynaldo Medina as Detective
 Norman Matlock as Lincoln

Reception
The film opened at number one at the US box office with an opening weekend gross of $4,565,000 from 795 theatres. After 12 days in 860 theatres, it had grossed $11,266,000. The film went on to gross over $65 million worldwide at its time of release in 1981.  On release, reviews were mixed.  On Rotten Tomatoes, which collects both modern and contemporaneous review, the film has an 86% approval rating based on 14 reviews; the average rating is 6.6/10.

Richard Schickel, in Time, called it "more like a made-for-TV movie." He also added, "The film is not quite up to its star" and is "somewhere between Barney Miller and the works of Joseph Wambaugh." Of the acting, he wrote, "But mainly it is Newman, now 56, who gives Fort Apache its modest distinction." Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun Times called it "the most complete collection of cop-movie clichés since John Wayne played a Chicago cop in McQ." He criticized the number of unnecessary scenes and "story threads that lead nowhere." Ebert said about Newman that he is "good in his role," but called the film more of a TV show. Variety labeled the film "a very patchy picture, strong on dialog and acting and exceedingly weak on story," and criticizes it for its lack of depth. Nick Sambides Jr. at Allmovie calls it a "flinty but otherwise forgettable character study." Newman called the New York Post "a garbage can" after it published a photo of him on the set with a caption indicating that it portrayed a film crewperson "ward[ing] off a group of Hispanic youths protesting the film," which Newman claimed actually portrayed the crewmember warding off photographers. Because of the dispute, the Post banned him from its pages, even removing his name from films in the TV listings.

Legal issues
Local community groups threatened to file suit against the producers because of the way it depicted their neighborhood in the Bronx and for the depiction of ethnic minorities (Blacks and Puerto Ricans). Because of this pressure, some changes were made to the script and a note was added to the title card at the beginning of the film.

In 1976, Tom Walker, a police officer who had been stationed at the 41st precinct, published Fort Apache (New York: Crowell, 1976. ), a non-fiction book about his experiences there. After the release of the film, Walker filed a lawsuit against its producers and writers alleging copyright infringement. Among other things, Walker argued that: "both the book and the film begin with the murder of a black and a white policeman with a handgun at close range; both depict cockfights, drunks, stripped cars, prostitutes and rats; both feature as central characters third- or fourth-generation Irish policemen who live in Queens and frequently drink; both show disgruntled, demoralized police officers and unsuccessful foot chases of fleeing criminals."

Walker lost in federal district court, and again on appeal. The appeals court ruled that these are stereotypical ideas, so called "scènes à faire" (French for "scenes that must be done"), and that copyright law does not protect concepts or ideas. The court ruling stated: "the book Fort Apache and the film Fort Apache: The Bronx were not substantially similar beyond [the] level of generalized or otherwise nonprotectible ideas, and thus [the] latter did not infringe copyright of [the] former."

Newman also filed a claim against Time-Life claiming that they had undersold the TV rights (on which he was due 15%) by selling to HBO for $1.5 million and not offering it to others, as well as underreporting foreign distribution receipts by over $3.75 million on which he was due 12.5%. An agreement was settled out of court.

See also
 List of American films of 1981
 Fort Apache
 Fort Apache (film)
 List of hood films

References

External links