[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Yujiro Takahashi

him to a singles match, which was accepted by Beretta. The match took place one week later at Destruction in Kobe on September 24, 2017, where Beretta defeated Takahashi, culminating their feud in the process. From November 18 to December 11, 2017, Takahashi teamed up with Page once again for the 2017 World Tag League, where they finished third in block A with a record of four wins a three losses, failing to advance into the final. On March 9, 2018. Takahashi entered the 2018 New Japan Cup, where he faced off against Juice Robinson in a rematch, but was yet again defeated by Robinson, failing to advance into the second round. At the World Tag League, Takahashi again teamed with Page, scoring five wins and eight losses. At the end of the tournament and in the midst of the Bullet Club Civil War, Takahashi became an official associate of The Elite. After the sub-group's departure from Bullet Club and New Japan, he and Owens, who was also kicked out, were welcomed back into BC by Tama Tonga.

At the World Tag League, Takahashi teamed with Kenta, scoring eight wins and seven losses. At Wrestle Kingdom 14, Takahashi was involved in losing efforts in an eight man tag team match on the first night and a NEVER Openweight six-man Tag Team Championship gauntlet the second night.

After missing the New Japan Cup the year before due to injury, Yujiro participated in the 2020 tournament, being eliminated by Hirooki Goto in the first round. Later that year he would embark on a feud with Kazuchika Okada, losing to him in a singles match at Sengoku Lord. Later in the year, Takahashi competed in the G1 for the first time in five years, losing almost every match in his block, only defeating Jeff Cobb in the last day. Takahashi teamed with Evil, in the World Tag League tournament, where they finished with 6 points, failing to advance to the finals. At Wrestle Kingdom 15, Takahashi entered but failed to win the New Japan Rambo match.

In March of 2021, Takahashi entered the New Japan Cup, but was defeated by Yoshi-Hashi in the first round. In September, Takahashi entered the G1 Climax 31 tournament, finishing with 5 points, failing to advance to the finals. However, one of his wins was against the previous year's winner, Kota Ibushi and his match against Shingo Takagi ended in a double countout.

Bullet Club's House of Torture (2021–present)
In September, Roppongi 3k imploded after Sho attacked Yoh after a surprising, poor run in the Super Junior Tag League. Sho accepted a Bullet Club shirt from Evil who stood alongside Takahashi and Dick Togo with an alternative design labeled House of Torture, officially starting a new sub-group. At Power Struggle, Takahashi, Evil and Sho, defeated Chaos to win the Never Openweight six-man tag team championships. Takahashi once again teamed with Evil in the World Tag League, they finished second in the block advancing to the finals, but lost to Bishamon (Hirooki Goto and Yoshi-Hashi) in the finals. On Night 2 of Wrestle Kingdom 15, Evil, Sho and Takahashi, retained the 6-man titles against CHAOS. Takahashi, entered the New Japan Cup tournament, but lost in the first round once again, to Tetsuya Naito. At Dominion 6.12 in Osaka-jo Hall, House of Torture retained the 6-man championships against Suzuki-Gun, but lost them to Chaos at NJPW New Japan Road.  In June, Takahashi was announced to be competing in the G1 Climax 32 tournament competing in the D Block. He finished the tournament with 6 points, failing to advance to the semi-finals.

Championships and accomplishments

Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre
Gran Alternativa (2009) – with Okumura
New Japan Pro-Wrestling
IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Tetsuya Naito
IWGP Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Tetsuya Naito
NEVER Openweight Championship (1 time)
NEVER Openweight 6-Man Tag Team Championship (3 times) – with Bad Luck Fale and Tama Tonga (1) and Evil and Sho (2)
Pro Wrestling Illustrated
PWI ranked him #127 of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2010

Luchas de Apuestas record

References

External links

1981 births
Japanese male professional wrestlers
Living people
People from Niigata (city)
Sportspeople from Niigata Prefecture
Bullet Club members
Chaos (professional wrestling) members
NEVER Openweight champions
IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Champions
NEVER Openweight 6-Man Tag Team Champions
IWGP Heavyweight Tag Team Champions