[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Struthers (anatomist)

ir sons, Alexander, James and John also worked in the medical profession; John William Struthers followed his uncle James by working at Leith Hospital, and followed his father by working at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary and by becoming president of the Royal College of Surgeons.

Awards and distinctions

In 1852 Struthers was elected a member of the Harveian Society of Edinburgh and served as president in 1894. He was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree by the University of Glasgow in 1885 for his work in medical education. In 1892 he was given honorary membership of the Royal Medical Society; he also became president of the Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh. He was appointed to the General Medical Council in 1883 and remained a member until 1891. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1894. In 1895 he was made president of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh; he held the position for two years. In 1898, he was knighted (as Sir John Struthers) by Queen Victoria for his service to medicine.

Glasgow University's Struthers Medal is named in his honour.

Publications

Struthers authored over 70 manuscripts and books, including the following.

Books

Papers

Notes

References

Sources

 
 

 
 Struthers, John (1863). Memoir of Dr Alexander, Wooler.

External links
 The Zoology of Professor Struthers  at University of Aberdeen

1823 births
1899 deaths
Alumni of the University of Edinburgh
Academics of the University of Edinburgh
Academics of the University of Aberdeen
Scottish anatomists
Cetologists
Deaths from influenza
Evolutionary biologists
Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
Infectious disease deaths in Scotland
Burials at Warriston Cemetery
Scottish surgeons
People from Dunfermline
Scottish knights
Presidents of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh
Fellows of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh
19th-century Scottish medical doctors
People from Wooler
Scientists from Northumberland