[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Francis Martin O'Donnell

June 2017 in Dublin, co-chaired by Bertie Ahern, Taoiseach (Prime Minister) of Ireland, (1997–2008) and Olusegun Obasanjo, President of Nigeria (1999–2007), and has also participated in other IAC high-level expert meetings on social inclusion and migrants and refugees (Limassol, Cyprus, March 2019)

He delivered a talk on "Globalisation and Multilateralism" to seminars on Civic Education for a Society of Citizens, under the auspices of the Association of Schools of Political Studies of the Council of Europe, in Helsinki, Finland, 12 March 2018, co-sponsored by the Council of Europe, Finland (MFA) and the UK ([Foreign and Commonwealth Office]), and in Riga, Latvia 17–21 March 2019, hosted by the Stockholm School of Economics in Riga in collaboration with the Stockholm Institute of Transition Economics. He addressed the subject of globalisation again under the theme "In the Search of Lost Universalism" at the Berlin Forum 2018, under the auspices of Association of Schools of Political Studies of the Council of Europe and hosted by the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, Berlin, 26–27 November 2018. He also presented reflections on Multilateralism and the Future of Global Governance, in a conference presentation, for the subsequent 6th International Berlin Forum In Search of Lost Universalism, held by Zoom online, on 21 November 2020 by the Association of Schools of Political Studies of the Council of Europe in collaboration again with the Konrad Adenauer Foundation.. He lectured on "The Ecology of Multilateralism" at the Segovia Seminar of the Association of Schools of Political Studies of the Council of Europe, held in Spain on 26–29 May 2019. . O'Donnell moderated the panel on "Globalisation and Growing Inequalities" at the IX Global Baku Forum on "Threats to the Global World Order" in Baku, Azerbaijan on 18 June 2022. The panel included Rosalía Arteaga Serrano, former President of Ecuador, Laimdota Straujuma , former Prime Minister of Latvia; Emil Constantinescu, former President of Romania; Katalin Bogyay, President of the 38th Session of the UNESCO General Conference; Mats L. Karlsson, former Vice-President of the World Bank; and Garry Jacobs, President of the World Academy of Art and Science;

Alarmed that the United Nations Security Council has not been able to reach agreement on a draft resolution put before it on COVID-19, O'Donnell is one of the signatories of the global appeal by world leaders to "Support the UN Secretary-General's Urgent Call for an Immediate Global Ceasefire amid the COVID-19 Pandemic". The appeal calls "to put armed conflict on lockdown and to come together to focus on the true fight of our lifetime". O'Donnell was a signatory of the letter démarche of 15 April 2022 of former senior UN system staff urging UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres to act decisively and politically on the Russian aggression against Ukraine, following which he visited Moscow and Kyiv   and in a follow-up démarche to the G20 leaders meeting in Bal . O'Donnell was a panellist in the presidential symposium on "The Idea of Europe" , held under the auspices of the President of Lithuania, Gitanas Nausėda, in Kaunas on 25 November 2022, and including the presidents on Latvia, Egils Levits; Poland, Andrzej Duda; and Romania Klaus Iohannis, along with online addresses by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy .

Media
O'Donnell has contributed to various print and broadcast news outlets.

Other interests
Based on his original research into various subjects, several of his articles on historical matters have been published in scholarly journals in Ireland, such as The Irish Sword – Journal of the Military History Society of Ireland, and the Journal of the Kerry Archaeological and Historical Society, and on the academic networking site Academia.edu.

The Law Reform Commission has noted his work. leading to the Land and Conveyancing Law Reform Act O'Donnell has a peerage.

O'Donnell also addressed the 2nd International Colloquium on Nobility, hosted in Madrid by the Real Asociación de Hidalgos de España, 21 October 2017, on the subject of "Irish Nobility and Armigerous Families" and also advocated for participating organisations to register their heraldic and nobiliary traditions under UNESCO's 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage.

In 2018, Academica Press published his book The O'Donnells of Tyrconnell – A Hidden Legacy, to the acclaim of several Irish historians and genealogists. His first volume of poetry No Man's Land - Selected Poetry & Art was published in early 2020.

O'Donnell co-organised the first webinar of the College of St Anthony of Padua, Leuven, held on 21 October 2021, under the theme Memorialising Émigré Dignity.