[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Radical Republican Party

the republican left, few in number and fragmented, or the powerful bloc of the religious right, the CEDA. Over the next year various governments dominated by Radical-Republicans were toppled before the cabinet was finally extended to include the CEDA, a move that prompted the October Rising of 1934.

The increasing preference of Lerroux's wing to cooperate with the religious right over the fellow secular Radicals of the republican left caused concern among many members of the party. A series of concessions to the CEDA led several of the party's most prominent figures to abandon it in protest between October 1933 and October 1934. Most significantly, the schism of April 1934 had the party's second figure, the former interior minister and prime minister Diego Martínez Barrios, led a faction out of the party, taking with him twenty of the PRR's hundred deputies. They would soon merge with the right wing of the old Radical Socialist Republican Party to form the Republican Union. The walkouts left the remainder of the PRR even more inclined to concession with the religious right.

Lerroux's rump PRR remained in government with the conservative-liberals and the CEDA for 1935. The party, already heavily weakened, made increasing policy concessions to the CEDA. It was fatally damaged by the revelations of two corruption scandals, known as the Nombela and Straperlo affairs, in the autumn of 1935. This led to the downfall of Lerroux as premier, though members of the PRR itself remained in the subsequent cabinets headed by two independents considered to be philosophically close to Radical-Republicanism, Joaquin Chapaprieta and Manuel Portela-Valladares.

The party did not recover. In the elections of 1936, it chose to ally for electoral lists with the parties of the religious and monarchist right, and many of its own local branches and voters abandoned it and migrated to other parties believed to better represent the spirit of Radical Republicanism: Portela Valladares's Party of the Democratic Centre  on the centre-right, Martinez Barrios's centre-left Republican Union, or Manuel Azana's left-wing Republican Left. The PRR garnered just 1% of the vote, returning a mere six deputies, and several of them abandoned the party in parliament to instead sit among the Democratic Centre group. When the insurrection of July 1936 broke out, the PRR was proscribed, which brought its 30-year history to an end.

References

Bibliography
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Translated from the Spanish Wikipedia article

External links
Poster of the Radical Republican Party

1908 establishments in Spain
1936 disestablishments in Spain
Banned political parties in Spain
Defunct socialist parties in Spain
Political parties disestablished in 1936
Political parties established in 1908
Political parties in Cantabria
Radical parties
Republican parties in Spain