[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 1991 Iraqi uprisings

he United States did not want the regime to collapse." In addition the destroying captured munitions, the Bush administration transferred some to the Mujahideen in Afghanistan, and even returned some to the Iraqis; at the same time, the Bush administration accused Iran of sending arms to the rebels.

The U.S. abandonment of the 1991 revolution was cited by many analysts as an explanation for the fact that the skeptical Iraqi Shia population did not welcome the U.S.-led coalition forces during the 2003 invasion of Iraq the way some officials of George W. Bush administration had predicted before the war began, remaining reluctant to rise up against Saddam until Baghdad fell. In 2011, the U.S. ambassador to Iraq, James F. Jeffrey, officially apologized to Iraqi politicians and southern tribal leaders for the U.S. inaction in 1991. Adel Abdul Mahdi, a top Iraqi Shia political leader, commented: "At the least, from what we are facing now, this would have been a much better solution than the solution of 2003. The role of Iraq's people would have been fundamental, not like in 2003." A spokesman for a top Shia religious leader, Ayatollah Basheer Hussain Najafi, stated that "the apology of the U.S. has come too late, and does not change what happened. The apology is not going to bring back to the widows their husbands, and bereaved mothers their sons and brothers that they lost in the massacre that followed the uprising."

In film 
The southern rebellions were the subjects of the 1999 film Three Kings by David O. Russell and they were also the subjects of the 2008 film Dawn of the World by Abbas Fahdel, as well as the 1993 Frontline documentary Saddam's Killing Fields by Michael Wood.

See also 

 1935–36 Iraqi Shia revolts
 1977 Shia uprising in Iraq
 1999 Shia uprising in Iraq
 Kurdish Rebellion of 1983
 Iraqi Partisan movement, 1979–88
 First Iraqi–Kurdish War
 Second Iraqi–Kurdish War
 Human rights in Saddam Hussein's Iraq
 Arab Spring
 Libyan Civil War
 Syrian Civil War
 List of modern conflicts in the Middle East
 Kurdish Mujahideen

Notes

References

Further reading 
 

 
20th century in Iraq
March 1991 events in Asia
April 1991 events in Asia
Chemical weapons attacks
Collective punishment
Gulf War
Iraqi chemical weapons program
Islam in Iraq
Shia–Sunni relations
Torture in Iraq
Shia–Sunni sectarian violence
Religion-based wars
Civil wars in Iraq
Articles containing video clips