[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David L. Cunningham

he mini-series in any way." Nowrasteh defended Cunningham in an OpinionJournal.com column, arguing that criticism of the Cunningham's association with his father's Christian mission was akin to McCarthyism, in which "the merest hint of a connection to communism sufficed to inspire dark accusations."

To date, ABC has not released the mini-series to DVD. In 2007, Oliver Stone said while he's "not vouching for its accuracy," he thinks it is "a dangerous precedent, to allow a movie to be buried". A 2008 documentary by John Ziegler and producer David Bossie of Citizens United premiered a documentary co-produced, written and directed by Ziegler entitled Blocking The Path to 9/11. Jeffrey Ressner of The Politico, wrote Blocking 'The Path to 9/11 mirrored The Path to 9/11 because it "raises even more questions and adds its own set of disconnected dots to this broadcasting dilemma".

The Film Institute

The Film Institute (TFI), a "non-profit association geared toward educating filmmakers from the developing world, linking like-minded filmmakers, and focusing resources and talent for social change", was established by Cunningham and several University of the Nations alumni in 2004. Though ABC asserted that the network itself was the source of funding for The Path to 9/11, TFI became embroiled in the controversy when several internet bloggers claimed it funded or influenced the movie.

According to TFI member Mark Harris' speech at a Latin American Youth With A Mission conference: "One goal of TFI is to fast-track U of N School of Digital Film interns, placing them within the film industry, so that they can begin to tell the stories that need to be told and help make a difference through film". Harris also stated that he was a volunteer coordinating TFI's interns at the time. He rebutted the assertion that TFI initiated or funded The Path to 9/11.

Hakani
In 2008, Cunningham directed Hakani: A Survivor's Story telling the story of an 8-year-old boy's rescue of his little sister ("Hakani") who, because of birth defects, was to be put to death by their tribe in the Amazon. The film was shot with members from 8 Amazonian tribes. In Brazil, the film has played a part in a controversial indigenous peoples' rights campaign. 

In 2008, the Brazilian government officials said "the missionaries are exaggerating and exploiting the issue to justify their attempts to convert Indians to Christianity". In 2009, Survival International released a statement that film is "faked, that the earth covering the children's faces is actually chocolate cake, and that the film's claim that infanticide among Brazilian Indians is widespread is false." Survival International has pointed out that the Hakani film is being used by Youth with a Mission to facilitate their ministries in the area.

Filmography
 Running for Grace (2018)
 Hakani: A Survivor's Story (2008)
 The Seeker: The Dark Is Rising (2007)
 The Path to 9/11 (2006) (TV)
 After... (2006) 
 Little House on the Prairie (2004) (mini) TV Series
 To End All Wars (2001)
 The Dream Center: Hope for the Inner City (1999)
 Beyond Paradise (1998)
 Baja 1000 (1996)
 Walkabout Australia (1996) (V)
Pacific Mercy Ships (1995) 
Passport to the World (1993) 
 Target World (1992) 
 The Pitcairn Story: Mutineers in Paradise (1991)

References

External links

University of the Nations School of Digital Film

1971 births
Living people
People from Kailua-Kona, Hawaii
USC School of Cinematic Arts alumni
Film directors from Hawaii