[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Republika Srpska Air Force

ublika Srpska Air Force 111th Helicopter Regiment, based at former tank-barracks of Zaluzani, consisted of two squadrons: 711th Anti-armour Helicopter Squadron, equipped with Gazelle-GAMA and Gazelle-HERA helicopters, and 780th Transport Helicopter Squadron equipped with Mi-8T transport helicopters.

Additional reinforcement to the Republika Srpska Air Force was ensured with the introduction of the 92nd Light Multi-role Aircraft Squadron, which was in fact a mixed collection of light aircraft which were confiscated from sport aeroclubs around Bosnia. It has been confirmed that the 92nd Light Multi role Aircraft Squadron was equipped with An-2, UTVA-66, UTVA-75, Zlin 526F, PZL-104 Wilga 80, Piper PA-18-150 Super Cub and Cessna 172 aircraft that were divided into three flights, based at Zaluzani, Prijedor and Bratunac airfields.

The air defense units which have become part of Republika Srpska Air Force and Air Defense were 155th Air Defense Missile Brigade, which was relocated from area of Zagreb and Cerklje to Banja Luka in 1991, equipped with S-75M Volhov and SA-75Mk Dvina missiles, 84th Air Defense Light Rocket-Artillery Regiment, 172nd Air Defense Self-Propelled Missile Regiment equipped with 2K12 Kub SAM's and 51st Air Reconnaissance Battalion.

On 26 July 1992, just two months after the initial structure of the Bosnian Serb Air Force was established, the flying units were once again reorganized. The 111th Helicopter Regiment was disbanded, and a new unit designated 92nd Mixed Aviation Brigade was formed to control both fixed-wing and helicopter squadrons. Later, during the same year, the 711th Anti-armour Helicopter Squadron and the 780th Transport Helicopter Squadrons were merged to create the new unit designated 89th Mixed Helicopter Squadron.

During the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnian Serb Air Force had conducted 17,316 sorties of all kinds, a large proportion of these being combat flights under the nose of NATO's Operation Deny Flight. However, it is important to note that 18 percent of all the sorties conducted between 27 May 1992 and December 1995 were medical evacuation flights, a total of 3.179 sorties. Over the war years, the Republika Srpska Air Force has lost 18 aircraft: five J-22 Oraos, six J- 21Jastrebs, five Gazelles and two Mi-8s as a result of enemy fire or accidents.

After the war

In March 1996 the entire Republika Srpska Army was reorganized and the Bosnian Serb air arm was renamed Aviation and air defense of the Army of the Republika Srpska (Vazduhoplovstvo i Protivvazdusna Odbrana Vojske Republike Srpske or V i PVO VRS). Additionally, all the units of the Bosnian Serb Air Force were once again reorganized and renumbered: the 74th Air Base was renumbered to 874th Air Base, the 92nd Mixed Aviation Brigade became 892nd Mixed Aviation Brigade and the 89th Mixed Helicopter Squadron became simply known as the 2nd Mixed Helicopter Squadron. The 27th and 28th Fighter-bomber Aviation Squadrons were merged to create the new unit that became known as 1st Fighter-Bomber Aviation Squadron. The 92nd Light Multi role Aircraft Squadron was disbanded and its aircraft were returned to their respective owners: the sport air clubs at Banja Luka, Bratunac and Prijedor. However, the V i PVO VRS retained two UTVA-75 aircraft in order to secure regular training flights to its Air Force pilots.

According to the Florence Agreement on Sub-Regional Arms Control (Article IV), signed in June 1996, the Republika Srpska was allowed to possess 21 combat aircraft and seven attack helicopters. In order to comply with the Florence Agreement, the Republika Srpska Air Force disarmed and withdraw from service four J-21 Jastreb ground attack aircraft and also disarmed six Aérospatiale Gazelle helicopters.

Due to the reorganisation of both armed forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, since June 1, 2004 the Republika Srpska Air Force is officially called 1st Regiment Air Force and Air Defence of Army of Republika Srpska (Serbo-Croatian: 1. Puk  Vazduhoplovstva i Protiv Vazdušne Odbrana Vojske Republike Srpske / 1. Пук Ваздухопловства и Противваздушне Одбране Војске Републике Српске). The entire branch has been downgraded to a regiment that consistent from two squadrons (fighter-bomber and mixed helicopter), and rocket-artillery air defense, air reconnaissance and logistics battalions.