[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maelstrom: The Battle for Earth Begins

of a Manipulator, a unit which can perform terraforming like the scavenger, but cannot construct anything. Hydrogen is harvested from water pumps, and is used for the same purpose as the water resources. Solar energy is generated automatically from Ascension buildings, which act as solar generators.

Ascension units and buildings are capable of regenerating shields but lack any regenerative capacity whatsoever.
The Ascension compensate for the lack of units by including vehicles which can morph into other forms to suit the battle. For example, ground units which are effective against infantry can transform into aerial anti-vehicle units, or can become stationary turrets or long-range artillery.

Much like the Remnants, vehicles and Manipulators will take damage from submersion unless the vehicles can hover over the water.

The Hai-Genti
The Hai-Genti are aliens who come to Earth in the middle of the struggle between the Ascension and Remnants. They use no mechanical units, and are a race of bio-constructs, each engineered for a specific purpose. The invasion is led by Mammon, and is overseen by a being known as the Overseer. The Hai-Genti are all biological, and as such have no vehicles or transport systems. Bases consist of only three buildings, an Inception Spore, a Biomass farm, and a Mutagen Pump. The Hai-Genti have no shields, and can regenerate in water. The Hai-Genti harvest only two resources, namely Biomass and Mutagen.

Unlike the other two factions, the Hai-Genti do not have multiple base structures, nor are there separate facilities for constructing infantry and vehicles. All units are spawned from eggs, which are called down by Inception Spores, which also act as the primary research centre. These eggs can then hatch into any one of a variety of units, depending on its size.

Biomass is harvested by constructing biomass farms on top of survivor compounds, which can also create Bio-thralls; units which can be sacrificed inside an egg, resulting in a stronger hatched creature. Biomass can also be harvested from enemy and friendly corpses.

Mutagen acts as the equivalent to the water resource, and also behaves as a healing agent in any water into which it is pumped. Unlike other factions, Mutagen pumps when constructed over water stations, flood the land, while healing any aliens swimming in its waters.

The Inception Spore can be evolved/upgraded, allowing for more eggs, which improve in size and Thrall capacity, as well as providing access to more upgrades. The inception spore at last evolved stage (called the elder spore) can call down an extremely powerful melee unit called the titan, however this costs a lot of water and biomass.

See also

 Perimeter (video game)
 Perimeter 2: New Earth
 Vangers

References

External links
Official website

2007 video games
Codemasters games
Post-apocalyptic video games
Real-time strategy video games
Video games about extraterrestrial life
Video games developed in Russia
Windows games
Windows-only games
Video games with voxel graphics
Video games set in the 2050s
Commercial video games with freely available source code