[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sean O'Driscoll

th 5 wins and 2 draws from their next 10 games taking them on the verge of climbing out of the relegation zone. However the form was not sustained, with 7 defeats, 2 draws and no wins from their last 9 games seeing City relegated to League One with 3 games to spare and finishing bottom of the table.

The start of the 2013 season saw the club at the bottom of the division with 6 points from 6 draws, no wins and 5 losses. Bristol City parted company with O'Driscoll on 28 November.

England U19s
On 3 September 2014 the FA announced that Sean O'Driscoll would replace the outgoing Noel Blake in the post of England U19 manager.
On 6 July 2015 it was confirmed that Sean had negotiated his release from this role in order to take over as assistant manager at Liverpool F.C

Liverpool (assistant)
On 6 July 2015 it was announced by Liverpool that Sean O'Driscoll had been appointed assistant manager, replacing Colin Pascoe for the 2015–16 Premier League season. Upon being appointed, O'Driscoll said he was excited to be joining one of the world's most iconic football clubs.

He left the position in October 2015 after the sacking of Brendan Rodgers.

Walsall
On 18 December 2015, O'Driscoll was announced as head coach of Walsall. O'Driscoll's first match in charge of Walsall ended in a 2–0 victory over Port Vale. On 6 March 2016, O'Driscoll was sacked by Walsall.

Wolves
On 10 July 2017, O'Driscoll was announced as a professional phase coach in Wolves Academy.

Portsmouth
On 22 March 2019, O'Driscoll was appointed as head of coaching and learning for the Portsmouth's academy. O'Driscoll formally resigned from this role on 29 September 2021.

Weymouth
On 14 December 2021, O'Driscoll joined the backroom team at National League side Weymouth on a non-contract basis.

Honours
Individual
League One Manager of the Month: January 2007

See also
 List of Republic of Ireland international footballers born outside the Republic of Ireland

References

External links

Footballers from Wolverhampton
English men's footballers
Republic of Ireland men's association footballers
English football managers
Republic of Ireland association football managers
English people of Irish descent
Republic of Ireland men's international footballers
Republic of Ireland men's under-21 international footballers
Fulham F.C. players
AFC Bournemouth players
AFC Bournemouth managers
Doncaster Rovers F.C. managers
1957 births
Living people
Alvechurch F.C. players
English Football League managers
Crawley Town F.C. managers
Nottingham Forest F.C. managers
Bristol City F.C. managers
Liverpool F.C. non-playing staff
Walsall F.C. managers
Oldham Athletic A.F.C. non-playing staff
Willenhall Town F.C. players
Men's association football midfielders
Association football coaches