[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Yitzhar

for throwing stones. In retaliation, settlers from Yitzhar reportedly smashed the window of a mosque in the village of Urif and tried to burn it down, set fire to fields in Palestinian villages, and stoned two buses carrying Palestinian schoolgirls, lightly injuring two girls and one of the drivers.

 2014 
On 8 April 2014, hundreds of Yitzhar residents attacked a Border Police force, hurling stones, burning tires, and vandalizing equipment. IDF soldiers were watching the scene without intervening, when settlers destroyed an army outpost. The Border Police had come to the community to demolish five illegally built structures, after Yitzhar residents had punctured the tires of military vehicles in two earlier instances. The Yitzhar settlers subsequently destroyed an IDF post. After soldiers asked them to refrain from damaging their personal belongings, they complied with the request by restricting their damage to military infrastructure. In response, armed Israeli soldiers seized control of the Ode Yosef Chai ("Joseph Yet Lives") seminary, which also functions as a synagogue, and built a barbed-wire cordon around the building. Six former heads of Israel's Shin Bet security agency described the attack by the settlers in an interview with Yediot Ahronot'' as an episode of "Jewish terror".
A young woman from Yitzhar was arrested in May for incitement of violence, after posting on a community e-mail site the remark: "I support throwing rocks (at Jews, and of course on Arabs without question). In certain circumstances—even if the rocks lead to the death of a soldier!!!"

2021 
In October 2021, a Palestinian tried to perform a stabbing attack in Yitzhar with a kitchen knife. The IDF said that they had "neutralized" the attacker but did not give further explanation.

2022 
An 82-year old Palestinian man was injured by suspected settlers close to Yitzhar, which police suspected as a response to a recent terrorist attack that killed two people in Hadera.

References

External links 
 Shomron Liaison Office: Yitzhar 
 Sharei Shechem: יצהר  (in Hebrew)
 Menachem Brody's pictures of Yitzhar 

Religious Israeli settlements
Populated places established in 1984
1984 establishments in the Palestinian territories
Israeli settlements in the West Bank