[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Andrijana Janevska

Andrijana Janevska (, born December 6, 1981) is a Macedonian singer and musician.

Biography

Janevska was born in Skopje, SR Macedonia, Yugoslavia where she currently works and lives. Her occupation is a violinist for the Macedonian National Opera. In addition to her musical talents, Andrijana also enjoys playing chess as a hobby. She is also proficient in playing the piano and her first composition was created at the age of 11. Andrijana started her studies in the School Centre for Music Education in Skopje at the age of 6, and recently finished her master studies at the Faculty of Arts in Skopje.

Andrijana Janevska's talent was first exposed to the public in 1998, when she took part in SkopjeFest. In October the next year, Andrijana was voted the best newcomer in the annual Makfest festival in Stip. At the festival, she sang a sensual ballad called "Ne mozam da zaljubam po tebe" ("I Can't Fall in Love After You"). Her festival awards did not end there as she competed in the Macedonian festival, Eurofest, and achieved the respectable second place with the song "Da sum juzen vetar" ("To Be A Southern Wind"). In February 2000, Andrijana Jenevska competed in SkopjeFest once again, only this time she was competing for a Eurovision selection to compete in Stockholm, Sweden. At the festival, she sang the well received song called "Tvoeto pismo, moja biblija" ("Your Letter, My Bible") and with this composition, she had a huge hit in Macedonia despite her failure to win the competition.

Andrijana's popularity led to her getting signed at the "Abra Kadabra" music label, which sent Andrijana to Cyprus to film her music video for her new single "Ljuboven ritam" ("Love Rhythm"), which she would compete with in the Montenegrin festival, Budva 2000. The cooperation between Andrijana and "Abra Kadabra" did not last long and finally ended when Andrijana terminated the agreement and joined the production of Macedonian Radio Television while continuing the direction of the music videos with another production label. During the summer of 2000, Andrijana spent her time in Australia as part of the Macedonian expedition to other continents. In October, Andrijana participated in Makfest as part of a duet with Marjan Stojanovski for the song "Ljubov ti e adresa" ("Love Is Your Address"). The song became a hit among the public and with their votes, the song triumphed in first place. After this, Andrijana filmed her music video with Stojanovski and returned to her first ambition of playing the violin, which was evident in her new songs. In March 2001, with the hit "Nostalgija" ("Nostalgia") Andrijana got first place from the public, first place from the jury, and the festival's Grand-Prix at SkopjeFest. In July, Andrijana took part in the Muf + Boban 2001 festival in Zrenjanin and began her promotion for the new album "Moja Biblija", which contained some new and some old songs, 12 of which were included in the album. Andrijana's fondness of duets made her dedicate the song, "Odovde do vechnosta" ("From Here to Eternity") which she sang with opera singer Blagoj Nacoski, to her fans.

Andrijana Janevska competed in SkopjeFest 2002, this time wishing to reach the Eurovision stage in Tallinn, Estonia. Her song "O Cherie, Mon Cherie" was a strong favourite to win the competition, however the audience and the jury both placed Andrijana in second place. After this, Andrijana took a long break from the music scene.

After three years of absence, Andrijana Janevska returned to the Macedonian music scene in October, participating in Makfest 2004. She competed with the rock song "Ostani" ("Stay"), and placed 7th. Andrijana Janevska was later interviewed and revealed that she is trying new music styles and that she is currently focused on rock music. At the end of 2004, Andrijana participated in SkopjeFest with "Za Kraj" ("For The End"), which because of its immense popularity was later released as a single with a music video. Andrijana announced that she will release a new album in the near future and that she has songs already prepared for promotion. In the summer of 2005, Andrijana participated in Ohrid Fest with the song "Dojdi Bakni Me" ("Come And Kiss Me"), where she won the third place overall. After that, Andrijana continued her comeback participating again in Makfest 2005, with the song "Zvezda Vodilka" ("Guiding Star"), where she was successful at gaining more media interest.