[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Wolves and moose on Isle Royale

or human intervention, the original situation of a high moose population limited only by starvation is the prospect.

In December 2016, the National Park Service (NPS) put forward a plan in which they would add 20 to 30 wolves to the island in order to prevent the pack from disappearing completely.

In December 2017, Sarah Hoy et al. of Michigan Technological University published results of a 40-year study showing a decrease in the size and lifespans of moose. Analysis of moose skulls documents a 16% shrinkage likely consistent with warming winters which are correlated with smaller brain size in one-year-old moose. The moose population has tripled in the past decade, reaching about 1,600 in the 2017 survey, but as wolf die off approaches, competition for food due to overpopulation will become a further stress on moose.

In March 2018, with the release of the final Environmental Impact Statement, the NPS formally proposed to relocate 20 to 30 wolves to the island over a three-year time period, starting immediately. An official Record of Decision was released on 7 June 2018 selecting this preferred alternative over several others including taking no action, introducing wolves over a longer 20-year period, and delaying immediate action but allowing for the possibility of future action after the continued monitoring of moose population metrics. By June 2018, the NPS was actively developing specific implementation strategies. By the end of 2018, three females and a male were trapped in Minnesota and relocated to the park, with more to come. Over the following months the newly introduced male wolf died and one of the females left the island via an ice bridge. In early 2019 eleven more wolves were trapped in Canada and released in the park. Three of the fifteen wolves on the island appeared to be forming a new pack in late 2019. As many as 14 wolves were on the island as of April 2020. At least two new pups were noticed in September 2020. After the 2021-2022 winter study, researchers estimated there were 28 wolves.

Other species

Once a moose is brought down and killed, wolves have to compete with scavenging ravens. Ravens are tenacious scavengers that can easily dodge the strike of a wolf and are unbothered by them. Ravens can eat and store up to  in a few days, which is minuscule compared to the storage capacity of wolves, which is up to  in just a few hours.

Other anti-social species have an effect, though rather small, on the relationship between wolves and moose on Isle Royale. Before wolves hunted them to extinction, coyotes used to inhabit the island. Beavers and snowshoe hares also have an effect on both populations, because beavers and snowshoe hares are the only two animals that wolves prey on excluding moose, constituting a tenth of an Isle Royale wolf's diet. The beaver population has sharply declined since the arrival of wolves, but they still are present, and though they are not a prime food source for typical wolves, they are the second to moose as the most consumed animal by the wolves on the island. Beavers benefit both species. They are as easy prey for wolves and they create aquatic macrophytes, very nutritional plants for moose, although the macrophytes are also consumed by the beavers. Though wolves are thought to contribute to the decline in beaver, researchers believe that the decline of aspen, the primary food source of beavers, which used to be plentiful, could have led to their decrease. Beavers have been exposed to predation by having to travel long distances to find the only parts of the island where aspen remains.

Snowshoe hares, the third most consumed animal by wolves on Isle Royale constitute a very small portion of the wolves' diet, because snowshoe hares are so difficult to catch. Researchers have found that wolves do not show much interest in preying on hares, and only feed on them incidentally. Snowshoe hares have a negative effect on moose as they eat some of the same vegetation that moose eat, which only contributes to the decline in appropriate forage for moose. The red fox is yet another animal that inhabits Isle Royale; red foxes mainly feed on snowshoe hares and occasionally scavenge on moose, or any other meat a wolf leaves behind. Wolves do not commonly hunt foxes, though wolves have been observed killing foxes when they attempt to feed on an animal carcass.