[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Julian Moti

Julian Ronald Moti (2 June 1965 – 21 December 2020) QC CSI was the Attorney General of the Solomon Islands. He was born in Fiji and educated in Australia.

Moti worked as an adjunct professor of law at Bond University on Australia's Gold Coast from 1992, and taught comparative constitutional law, public and private international law, transnational litigation and arbitration, international trade, and finance and investment in Australasia and the Pacific.

He was the founding president of the Pacific Islands Branch of the International Law Association (ILA), served on the ILA Committee on Compensation for Victims of War and has been a visiting professorial fellow at the Centre for Law and Governance at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi, India, and a visiting professor at Gujarat National Law University in Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India.

Controversial allegation of child sex offence 

Moti, an Australian citizen, has been wanted in Australia for serious alleged overseas child sex offences. He has been at the centre of an international dispute following efforts by the Australian Government to extradite him from both Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands to face charges in relation to an incident alleged to have taken place in Vanuatu in 1997. The proceedings involved a number of distinguished visiting judges: John Von Doussa, now the president of Australia's Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission, Bruce Robertson, the president of the New Zealand Law Commission, and Daniel Fatiaki,  former Chief Justice of Fiji.

The Australian lawyer, journalist and biographer David Marr cites that the original charges against Moti had been thrown out of court and considerable legal costs were ordered to be paid as the magistrate ruled that he had no case to answer, although he also quotes suggestions that the magistrate was corrupt. The magistrate in question, denies the accusation in an affidavit. Marr also, however, points out numerous "serious weaknesses" in the case against Mr Moti, including 
six disturbing statements [the complainant] made over ... four months. All are in English, though it appears she only spoke French. None was in her own writing. None was sworn. The underlying story doesn't change from statement to statement, but details are contradictory. Others appear fanciful. She claimed he had three testicles, but Port Vila GP Dr Frank Spooner would later examine Moti and concluded he had two.... Dates are changed; at one stage she withdrew her allegations entirely, then renewed them a few weeks later saying her previous statement was 'not of my own free will' and asked police to investigate. In several statements she described being beaten and raped by Moti but in others that she loved him. 'I wanted to say that I love Julian Moti very much,' she stated in March 1998. 'He is a reach [rich] man he can take me anywhere I wanted and this is my belief of my future with Julian because he is so kind....'

In October 2008, The Australian Newspaper reported that Vanuatu magistrate Bruce Kalotiti, who heard the case against Moti in 1999, had been bribed by Moti to dismiss the case in exchange for Moti's paying for Kalotiti to study at the University of Western Sydney. The report cited university records and evidence obtained by the Australian Federal Police in September 2004. Kalotiti resigned from the bench as a result of the allegations and the evidence which supported them, gathered at the request of the Vanuatu government.

Escape from Papua New Guinea to Solomon Islands 

After his arrest in Papua New Guinea in September 2006, Moti was released on bail pending an extradition hearing, but went into hiding in the Solomon Islands High Commission in Port Moresby. (He later claimed that his life had been threatened, and so sought sanctuary.)