[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mass media in South Korea

ngsung Broadcasting' in 1927. Some people regard HLKA by 'Korean Broadcasting system' in 1947 as the first radio broadcasting in Korea. Since 2003, DAB(Digital Audio Broadcasting) or DAR(Digital Audio Radio) services have been used.

Channels
As standard radio stations, there are KBS, MBC, SBS, EBS.

KBS, public broadcasting group operates 7 channels. KBS Radio 1, KBS Radio 2, KBS Radio 3, KBS 1FM, KBS 2FM, KBS Hanminjeok Radio and KBS World Radio.
MBC
In Korea, MBC Radio is the most popular in general because there are several long-running programs. MBC operates 2 channels: FM4U and Standard FM. 'Cho Yeong-Nam & Choi Yu-ra's Radio Golden Age' is the most famous program which provides funny stories and K-pop music.
SBS
SBS also operates two channels in radio: Power FM and Love AM.
EBS(Educational Broadcasting System)
CBS: is the first commercial radio broadcaster in South Korea. It contains programs about Christianity.
Other religious programming broadcasters: PBC(Pyeonghwa Broadcasting Corporation, 평화방송), BBS(Buddhism Broadcasting System(BBS), 佛敎放送), FEBC(Far East Broadcasting Co., Korea, 極東放送), *WBS (원음방송)
Traffic broadcasters: TBS(Traffic Broadcasting System). They specialize in traffic. Many other stations also provide hourly traffic condition reports, typically for 3 minutes every 57 minutes.
There are many radio stations in Korea, but channels are not uniquely distinctive. KBS 1FM, KBS 1AM, TBS (Traffic Broadcasting System) are somewhat distinctive. Other channels are usually broadcast according to people's lifestyle.

Television

KORCAD was the first TV station in South Korea, which launched in 1956.
In South Korea, terrestrial television broadcasting is common and popular. As terrestrial broadcasters, there are five channels with four television stations:
KBS 1TV
KBS 2TV
MBC
EBS
SBS
KBS, MBC, EBS are public broadcasters while SBS is a commercial broadcaster, under a "many public broadcasters" system. It is a unique system; other countries typically have one public broadcaster and many commercial broadcasters.

KBS is funded by public money accrued from a television license fee gathered from all South Korea households with a television set. As of 2010, the fee is ₩2500 (about $2 USD). Due to low public funds, KBS2 runs commercials. Looking at the ownership of MBC, 70% of it is owned by a government-owned not-for-profit organization (The Foundation of Broadcast Culture), and 30% of it belongs to 'Jeong-su Scholarship Foundation'. Also, because KBS2 and MBC run commercials, there are a lot of controversies on the definition of public broadcasting in South Korea.

Digital television technology emerged recently. Although some television stations have begun broadcasting digital signals, it is not yet widespread as in the United States. The Government of South Korea set December 31, 2012 as the deadline for digital conversion in South Korea. From 2013, South Korea will convert from the analogue broadcasting to the digital broadcasting.(This date coincides with the United Kingdom conversion date.) According to DTV Korea, the rate of digital TV sets in use is about 60% (2010).

New media

Internet

When it comes to Internet use, South Korea ranked third in the world in 2003. According to statistics from the Korean Ministry of Information and Communication, 78.5% of families own a computer, of which 93.6% use the Internet (2005). Many businesses utilize the Internet in Korea for services such as news, social media, shopping, banking, games, and educational content.

Internet journalism 
Joongang Ilbo developed the first internet news website in Asia in 1995. After the start, almost every daily newspaper made its website. There are also online-only portals like Prussian.

Social media 
As in other countries, social media has become the spotlight in South Korea.

The most well notable social media in South Korea are, KakaoTalk, Naver, Cyworld, and Snow
KakaoTalk is a social media messenger application. According to science direct it “is the most widely used IM application in South Korea with over 49.1 million active users” (2019, Digital Investigation). Its wide range as a social media application is the main focus of why it has its current 49.1 million active users. This application allows users to do a wide variety of activities outside of messaging. You can also make purchasing and send gifts to friends. Allowing users to feel closer even from a distance. 
 
Naver Is a search engine, equivalent to google of South Korea, it is the leading search engine in South Korea.
Outside of being a search engine it also has many other attributes.

-BAND: A software application that focused on group communication and stayed connected with your group. This includes features such as polls, group calendars, and private chats.

-Naver Cafe: Similar to many forums, Naver cafe allows users to post and create their internet communities.