[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# National Museum of Beirut

ean influence on local craftsmen. This spreading Hellenization interacted with the local Semitic population substratum, which remained faithful to its gods and its language. It resulted in an artistic and architectural symbiosis best illustrated in the artifacts of Umm al-Amad and Bustan esh Sheikh.

Collection highlights:
 Sanctuary of Eshmun tribune: marble, Bustan esh Sheikh (near Sidon), ca. 350 BCE.
 Statue of Aphrodite: marble, Beirut.
 Greek gods figurines: terracotta, Kharayeb.
 Multiple Thrones of Astarte from around Lebanon.

Roman period
In 64 BC, the military expedition of the Roman general Pompey put an end to the anarchy prevailing in the Seleucid Empire, and Phoenicia became part of the Roman world. But Roman civil wars continued to disrupt the region until 31 BC, after which, with the reign of Augustus, the pax romana extended over the area. The pax romana favored international trade, and local industries in silversmithing, glass, textiles and ceramics developed.

Roman Period (64 BC–395 CE) section collection highlights include:
 Achilles sarcophagus: marble, Tyre, 2nd century CE.
 Drunken Cupids sarcophagus: marble, Tyre, 2nd century CE.
 Abduction of Europe mosaic: Byblos, 3rd century CE.
 Statue of Hygieia: marble, Byblos.
 Calliope and the seven wise men mosaic: Baalbeck, 3rd century CE.
 Dionysus bust: marble, Tyre, 3rd century CE.

Byzantine period
After the death of Theodosius I in 395 CE, the Roman Empire was divided into a western and an eastern empire. The Lebanese cities were attached to the latter, and converted to Christianity which became the state religion in 392. The emperor ordered the destruction of pagan temples, but cults like those  of Adonis and Jupiter Heliopolitanus were kept alive by the local population and survived in some form for centuries.

Artifacts from the Byzantine period (395–636 CE) include:
The "Jealousy" mosaic: Beirut.
Elements of a church chancel: marble, Beirut.
Coins and jewelry collection.

Arab conquest, Mamluk period
The Arab conquest of Lebanon was completed in 637 CE. The expansion of the coastal cities, which had slowed down after earthquakes in the 6th century, revived during the Umayyad period. Their harbors and shipyards showed renewed  activity, and the hinterland saw extensive irrigation work for agriculture.

Lebanon was directly affected by the various dynastic changes which brought to power successively the Umayyads, Abbasids, Fatimids, Seljuks, Ayyubids and Mamluks. During this long period, Islam spread and Arabic became the language of the administration, then progressively replaced local dialects among the population. Artifacts from the Mamluk period (636–1516 CE  include coins, gold jewelry, and glazed terracotta bowls.

Publications
Maurice Chehab initiated in 1936 the museum's first publication, the Bulletin du Musée de Beyrouth ("Beirut Museum Bulletin"), which reached 36 volumes before publication was stopped in 1986 by the civil war. The journal covered archaeological finds, sites and ancient civilizations. In 1995 the museum and the Lebanese British Friends of the National Museum foundation resumed publication of a bi-annual journal entitled Archaeology and History in Lebanon (). BAAL ("Bulletin d’Archéologie et d’Architecture Libanaise" – Lebanese Archaeology and Architecture Bulletin) is an annual journal issued by the Directorate General of Antiquities in cooperation with the Lebanese Ministry of Culture in keeping in the tradition of the Beirut Museum Bulletin. The first volume of BAAL was issued in 1996; the journal publishes research papers,  excavations and archaeological surveys and reports.

Location and facilities 
The museum is located in Beirut's Mazra'a district on the intersection of Abdallah al-Yafi avenue and Damascus road; it is flanked by the Beirut hippodrome and the Directorate General of Antiquities building. A small theater and a gift shop flank the ground floor entry hall.

Gallery

References

External links

360 Panorama of the National Museum of Beirut
The National Museum of Beirut, AnnaharTV, 12 September 2009 
The Lebanese British Friends of the National Museum
The National Museum, Discover Lebanon

 
Lebanon
Museums in Beirut
Archaeological museums in Lebanon
Archaeological museums
Museums established in 1937
Egyptian Revival architecture
Museums of Ancient Near East in Lebanon
Phoenician art