[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1st Arkansas Infantry Regiment (Union)

Unlike the 1st Arkansas Infantry battalion, the 1st Arkansas Cavalry saw much fighting in Northwest Arkansas, mainly skirmishing with confederate guerrillas. In the fall of 1862, unionists would be given good news as another large Union army was once again entering Northwest Arkansas.

Organization

In April 1862 James M. Johnson, a doctor and unionist from Huntsville, left the state with his brother, Frank, and his friend Issac Murphy. Like many other unionists, they left due to the increasing amount of harassment at the hands of confederate guerillas. All three men were prominent unionists, the most famous of which being Murphy who was the only delegate to vote against secession during the final call the previous year. The group headed north until they reached Keitsville, Missouri, where they made contact with General Samual R. Curtis, who commanded the Army of the Southwest. Johnson and his brother offered their services to the Union army, with Johnson becoming an Aide to General Curtis. Johnson followed the army to Helena and throughout the summer and fall would serve as an aide to various other Generals in Arkansas, eventually traveling back to the northwest with the Army of the Frontier in October 1862. As the Army moved south they reached Elkhorn Tavern and here Johnson received the authority to raise a loyal Arkansas Infantry Regiment. It wouldn't be until the aftermath of the Prairie Grove Campaign and the following exodus of the northwestern confederate army that recruiting could finally begin. In December Johnson set up a headquarters at Fayetteville and in January he was aided by an Illinois captain named Elhanan J. Searle, and the two would gradually recruit men from the surrounding counties.

James M. Johnson 
James Madison Johnson his  was born in 1832 in Tennessee but moved to Arkansas in 1836, settling in Madison County. In 1850 Johnson married Elizabeth Johnson and the two would have seven children. Johnson attended the Ozark institute and Arkansas College where he likely became acquainted with Issac Murphy who taught at Ozark. Following a brief teaching stint of his own, Johnson left Arkansas to attend the St. Louis Medical School in 1857, returning two years later where he opened up his own medical clinic in Huntsville which he maintained until 1862.

Johnson was against slavery and in the 1850s bought an enslaved mother and child and had them officially freed thanks to his friend Judge Elijah D. Ham, who would be appointed as Major of the 1st Arkansas. Johnson and his family were prominent unionists when the Civil War broke out and due to this their safety in the region became so uncertain that the decision was made to leave, with Johnson making plans for his family to relocate to Illinois while he joined the army.

Elhanan J. Searle 

Elhanan John Searle was born in 1835 and grew up in Illinois where he was educated at River Seminary the Northwestern University where he obtained a bachelor's and master's degree. While at college Searle began studying law and in 1859, following his graduation, moved to Springfield to work under the law office of Abraham Lincoln and his partner William Herndon. By the time Searle passed the bar the civil war began and Lincoln, now president, offered Searle an army commission but he turned it down and instead enlisted as a private in the 10th Illinois Cavalry, eventually rising to the rank of captain. The 10th cavalry saw action at Cane Hill and Prairie Grove before being sent to Huntsville in January 1863, where Searle began to aid In the organization of the 1st Arkansas.

Recruiting 
On January 31, 1863, Johnson and Searle hosted a large gathering at Huntsville for recruiting, and according to Reverend Francis Springer, who later become the regiment's chaplain, “a considerable number of enlistments entered the roll of the new regiment.” In March the regiment received a large number of recruits due to the arrivals of Captains Brown, Vanderpool, and a guerilla fighter named William “Wild Bill” Heffington. Captain Vanderpool of Company C brought 200 men from Newton County on March 8 and Captain brown brought 83 unionists from Arkadelphia, who the previous month had beaten off a force of 300 confederates, arriving at Fayetteville on March 9. Heffington arrived from Yell county with another large group of men which later became Company I, with Heffington as Captain.

Many of the new volunteers had previously served in the Confederate army, some willingly and others conscripted, who had since deserted, Captain Heffington for example had previously served as a Lieutenant in the 17th Arkansas Infantry. Some of these deserters, as well as unionists, formed armed units to repulse confederates in the region. These units would often seek refuge in the woods and hilly terrain of the Northwest, thus receiving the name “Mountain Feds” by both sides.