[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yatiri

Yatiri are medical practitioners and community healers among the Aymara of Bolivia, Chile and Peru, who use in their practice both symbols and materials such as coca leaves.  Yatiri are a special subclass of the more generic category Qulliri, a term used for any traditional healer in Aymara society.

Current status of the Yatiri

Politics
As a result of current events in Bolivia, Yatiris and anything related to their practices have become quite popular, as a reaction against perceived threats from globalization and Western culture, especially anything related to the USA.  El Diario, Bolivian newspaper, mentions offerings made to the Pachamama and other such deities at most contemporary 2007 government events led by the President.

Problems faced by Yatiri

Historical
As a result of Spanish colonization and the influence of Western culture, the Yatiri face pressure from the Western notion of individualism, as opposed to the traditional Aymara concept of community .  The Christian church has also often ostracised the Yatiri, perceiving their role to be superfluous in modern religious practice, and a form of paganism.
This has changed as current government officials openly support Yatiri presence in events that formerly might have had a Catholic chaplain under the terms and practice of the Concordat with the Holy See.
Nevertheless, normal practice for most Andean people mixes practices from both traditions, for example in the , a blessing bestowed on any form of property, often done with both sacrifices to the Pachamama and Catholic prayers.

Modern medicine
Whereas the Aymara perceive 'health' to be a relationship with nature, with members of the community, and with ancestors; and the Yatiri play a vital role in strengthening and repairing these relationships.

Terminology
Several Aymara words and phrases are indispensable for an understanding of the role of Yatiri within the Aymara community.  As these concepts are unique to the Aymara setting, there is no adequate English translation.
Qulliri are healers associated with medicinal herbs, and require no special initiation to take up their vocation.
Layqa, traditionally marginalized and shunned, live on the outskirts of Aymara communities and use frogs and snakes in rituals to do harm to others.  One becomes a  by agreeing (usually for a price) to do these rituals to harm a person, on behalf of a client.
Rayu refers to lightning and its physical manifestations. Those who have been struck by lightning are often called  ("struck by lightning") or  ("arrived"). It is these  who have been called to become . In their healing ceremonies,  interact with (among other things)  and .  are ancestors different from biological ancestors, and  are human skulls that are considered to be dead elders in either a generational or a cultural sense.  ("someone who has or owns the darkness") is an elder  who undertakes the training of an apprentice -to-be.

The Yatiri in the community

Are Yatiri shamans?
Outsiders have often referred to the Yatiri as "shamans"; however, the role of the Yatiri differs markedly from that of the Central Asian shamans.  Shamans typically live and practice in isolation, undergo private and individual initiations to their roles, and practice ecstatic techniques in conjunction with their work.  They also typically learn to heal by learning to heal themselves after a near-death experience.  In contrast, the Yatiri are full members of Aymara communities who participate in the regular lifestyle of the Aymara, and learn their trade from masters.  Like shamans, Yatiri can be both female and male.

Linguistic approach to define the Yatiri
The word  comes from the verb  "to know".  Thus a  is literally "someone who knows".  The thing that distinguishes  from others in the community is that they have been struck by lightning, and have become .  The lightning strike is a sign of having been called, but it does not automatically make one a .  In modern times, because  is a neutral term, not associated by Westerners with sorcery, many  have been called  when outsiders inquire as to their status.  Strictly speaking,  are , but they are a special class of  who have also experienced the lightning strike and undergone initiation to become .   are never called "" to their face, but rather are referred to as  "someone who chews coca",  "someone who picks up the coca" or  "someone who reads coca."