[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tom Stott

ienced and famous of the Independent MPs, to believe that he could become Premier of South Australia himself. He failed to gain the support of sufficient independents and LCL members to achieve this; but the LCL government was forced to rely on his support far more than its members would have liked.

The commencement of World War II led Stott to argue that the forthcoming 1941 election should be cancelled and an LCL/ALP/Independent coalition government instigated (perhaps with himself in a prominent position) to concentrate on fighting the war. He failed to gain support for this plan, and the election went ahead, with Stott easily retaining his seat. So great a reputation did he have as the friend of primary industry, that he was sometimes called the "Christ of the Mallee" where, it was written,  "few would have glanced if he had walked on water".

Following the 1941 election, Premier Tom Playford approached Stott and recommended that the latter join the LCL.  While Stott refused to do so, he remained a fervent admirer of Playford, and publicly praised the Premier wherever possible. In return, Playford sought to persuade the local LCL branch to refrain from running a candidate of its own against Stott in his constituency for successive elections.  When the local LCL branch finally refused Playford's request, he apologised profusely to Stott and did little to support the candidate of his own party.

Stott's continued electoral success cannot purely be credited to his influence within bodies like the AWF.  For years he was also heavily involved with the wine and citrus industries and helped get producers in both industries significant government concessions.  He was renowned for his in-depth knowledge of any issue he debated, which he achieved through prodigious research.  His wife Linda, whom he married in 1926, was also a shrewd political campaigner who was heavily involved in issues around the electorate and proved a great asset for Stott.  Perhaps however, his greatest asset was his reputation as a tireless campaigner who never gave up on a constituent issue; in one case Stott spent over twenty years arguing with government departments on behalf of constituents seeking to be connected to the water supply before his eventual success.  Taking into account his public persona as a man with a square jaw, resonant voice and great presence who drank, smoked and owned and wagered on horses (Stott would serve as President of the South Australian Racehorse Owners' Association), and who was not afraid of condemnation by the churches for this lifestyle, Stott retained statewide popularity throughout his tenure in parliament.

The 1962 election resulted in a hung parliament whereby the LCL and Labor each held 19 seats.  By this time, Stott was the only independent in the chamber, and he was now in a position where he could effectively choose the next Premier. The leading ALP figures were initially hopeful of convincing Stott to support them in government (which would have made Frank Walsh the new Premier), but Playford praised Stott for his long service to South Australia.  Stott threw his support to Playford, referring to him as the greatest Premier in history.  Labor resigned itself to another three years in opposition.  In return for his support, Playford named Stott the Speaker of the House, ensuring that Stott had the casting vote on any contentious legislation — a vote that he used almost without fail to support the LCL.

Stott lost the speakership following the 1965 election, which the ALP won. Nevertheless he regained it (and the balance of power) in 1968 when the LCL, under Steele Hall, returned to power.  The government, being reliant on Stott's support, always welcomed his suggestions and when Stott recommended the construction of a dam at Chowilla (within his electorate), the LCL initially readily agreed.  However, Hall believed the proposed dam would be an expensive white elephant and refused to fund the dam.  Protests in Ridley forced Stott to vote with the Opposition to defeat Hall's government, leading to the return of Don Dunstan as Premier, something that Stott had fervently worked against for the previous decade.

Later life

Following his retirement at the 1970 election Stott lent his expertise to the Country Party as an organiser and campaign director and died in 1976, still angry with Steele Hall over Chowilla Dam.

The Stott Highway was named in 2008 in his honour as it passes through his former electoral districts and near his farm.

References 
Barnacles and Parasites, R. Jennings, Nesfield Press, Adelaide (1992).   

Members of the South Australian House of Assembly
Independent members of the Parliament of South Australia
1899 births
1976 deaths
Speakers of the South Australian House of Assembly
Australian racehorse owners and breeders
20th-century Australian politicians