[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Energoatom

State Enterprise National Nuclear Energy Generating Company "Energoatom" (SE NNEGC "Energoatom"), commonly known as just Energoatom, is a state enterprise operating all four nuclear power plants in Ukraine (Zaporizhzhia NPP, Rivne NPP, South Ukraine NPP, and Khmelnytskyi NPP). It is the largest power producer in Ukraine.

Overview 
State Enterprise "National Nuclear Energy Generating Company "Energoatom" was founded in October 1996. The company operates four operating nuclear power plants in Ukraine consisted of 15 nuclear power units (13 VVER-1000 units and 2 VVER-440 units) with a total installed capacity of 13,835 MW. The company also operates two hydroelectric units at the Oleksandrivska Hydroelectric Plant with the installed capacity of 25 MW and three hydroelectric units at the Tashlyk Pumped-Storage Power Plant with the installed capacity of 453 MW (the hydroelectric unit No. 3 was connected to the power system in 2022).

Ukraine ranks seventh in the world and second in Europe in terms of the number of nuclear reactors operated and total capacity. Energoatom provides about 55% of Ukraine's electricity needs.

The total number of employees as of the beginning of 2022 is 33,969 employees.

The organizational and legal form of Energoatom is a state enterprise.

The founder is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The enterprise was set up in 1996 under the Ordinance of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On the establishment of the National Nuclear Energy Generating Company "Energoatom" dated 17.10.1996 No. 1268 on the basis of the property and infrastructures of nuclear power plants – Zaporizhzhya NPP, Rivne NPP, South Ukraine NPP, Khmelnytskyi NPP and Chornobyl NPP. In 2001, the Chornobyl NPP was withdrawn from the SE NNEGC "Energoatom".

In 2021, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by the Decree No. 50-r dated 20 January, took over the functions of managing the unified property complex of the SE NNEGC "Energoatom".

The main types of economic activity are set out in detail in the Charter of Energoatom, in particular: The enterprise was established with the purpose of producing electric energy, ensuring safe operation and increasing the efficiency of nuclear power plants, safety during construction, commissioning and decommissioning of nuclear installations, uninterrupted energy supply to business entities and the population, as well as within its competence to ensure permanent readiness of Ukraine for quick and effective actions in the event of accidents at nuclear power plants, radiation accidents in industry, compliance with the requirements of nuclear legislation, norms and rules on nuclear and radiation safety.

In accordance with the Ordinance of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 17.10.1996 No. 1268, the company is entrusted with the functions of an operating organization. The objectives of Energoatom are the safe production of electricity; increasing the safety level of operating NPP power units and extending their period of operation; construction of NPP power units and their decommissioning; purchase of fresh nuclear fuel and removal of spent fuel; creation of a national infrastructure for handling irradiated nuclear fuel; physical protection of nuclear installations and nuclear materials; staff training and advanced training of personnel; solving social issues of employees, etc.

Energoatom is included in the list of enterprises of strategic importance for the economy and security of the state (the Ordinance of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 03.04.2015 No. 83 "On approval of the list of state-owned objects of strategic importance for the economy and security of the state").

Energoatom belongs to the economic entities that own and use high-risk facilities (in accordance with the requirements of the Law of Ukraine "On High-Risk Facilities" dated 18 January 2001 No. 2245-ІІІ).

The NPPs of Energoatom belong to the city-forming enterprises. In the cities of Energodar, Varash, Yuzhnoukrainsk, Netishyn the number of NPP employees (including their family members) is more than half of the population of the administrative-territorial unit in which the nuclear power plant is located.

Energoatom is a member of international organizations: WANO (World Association of Nuclear Operators), WNA (World Nuclear Association), EUR (European Utility Requirements), IFNEC (International Forum for Cooperation in the Field of Nuclear Energy), European Clean Hydrogen Alliance. On 31 March 2022, the Board of Governors of the WANO at its meeting supported the application of Energoatom and made a decision regarding the transfer of the company, together with all its plants and nuclear power units, to the Paris Center of the WANO.

The separated subdivisions of Energoatom