[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Devil's Backbone

r with a knife, telling her to apologize for shooting him, but she insults him instead, and he stabs her to death.

Carlos has a final encounter with Santi's ghost, who he is no longer afraid of after hearing the circumstances of his death. The ghost quietly demands that Carlos bring Jacinto to him.

Casares dies of his injuries as Jacinto and his associates reach the orphanage and imprison the orphans while they search for the gold. The two other men eventually grow impatient and leave, but Jacinto finds and takes the stash. Meanwhile, Jaime encourages the children to fight back, and they fashion weapons from sharpened sticks and broken glass. The ghost of Casares then comes to free them, unlocking the door, leaving behind a monogrammed handkerchief. The children attack Jacinto in the cellar, finally pushing him into the cistern where he had dumped Santi's body. Weighed down by the gold he was carrying, Jacinto struggles to resurface, but Santi's ghost appears from the depths and drags him to his death.

As the remaining children leave the orphanage and head to town, Casares' ghost watches them from the doorway.

Cast
 Fernando Tielve as Carlos, an orphan. He is described by del Toro in the DVD commentary as a force of innocence. Tielve had originally auditioned as an extra before Guillermo del Toro decided to cast him as the lead. This was his film debut. Both Tielve and his co-star Iñigo Garcés had cameos as guerrilla soldiers later in Pan's Labyrinth (2006).
 Íñigo Garcés as Jaime, the orphanage bully who later befriends Carlos.
 Eduardo Noriega as Jacinto, the caretaker.
 Marisa Paredes as Carmen, the administrator of the orphanage.
 Federico Luppi as Dr. Casares, the orphanage doctor.
  as Santi, an orphan who becomes a ghost.
 Irene Visedo as Conchita, Jacinto's fiancée.

Production

It was independently produced by Agustín Almodóvar as an international co-production between Spain and Mexico, and was filmed in Madrid.

Guillermo del Toro wrote the first draft before writing his debut film Cronos (1993). This "very different" version was set in the Mexican Revolution and focused not on a child's ghost but a "Christ with three arms". According to del Toro, and as drawn in his notebooks, there were many iterations of the story, some of which included antagonists who were a "doddering ... old man with a needle," a "desiccated" ghost with black eyes as a caretaker (instead of the living Jacinto who terrorizes the orphans), and "beings who are red from head to foot."

As mentioned in the "Spanish Gothic" interview on the DVD, the name of the movie was initially to be taken from the "Devil's Backbone" mountain range setting in Mexico; this was changed when the movie wound up being set in Spain. One scene showed jars of a liqueur the doctor owned, each containing spiced rum called “Limbo water”, preserving a fetus that died from spina bifida. The doctor said the drink was rumored to cure impotence and was sold to fund the school. This became the origin of the name.

As to motivation for the villain, according to the actor who portrayed him, Eduardo Noriega, Jacinto "suffered a lot when he was a child at this orphanage. Somebody probably treated him wickedly: this is his heritage. And then there is the brutalizing effect of the War." Noriega further notes that "What Guillermo did was to write a biography of Jacinto (which went into Jacinto's parents, what they did in life, and more) and gave it to me."

DDT Studios in Barcelona created the final version of the crying ghost (victim and avenger) Santi, with his temple that resembled cracked, aged porcelain.

Reception
On Rotten Tomatoes the film has a 92% rating based on 119 reviews, with an average rating of 7.6 out of 10. The website's critical consensus reads, "Creepily atmospheric and haunting, The Devil's Backbone is both a potent ghost story and an intelligent political allegory." It also has a weighted average score of 78 out of 100 on Metacritic based on 30 critic reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

Roger Ebert awarded the film 3 stars out of 4 and compared it favorably to The Others, another ghost story released later in the same year. Christopher Varney, of Film Threat, claimed: "That 'The Devil's Backbone' makes any sense at all – with its many, swirling plotlines – seems like a little wonder." A. O. Scott, of The New York Times gave the film a positive review, and claimed that "The director, Guillermo del Toro, balances dread with tenderness, and refracts the terror and sadness of the time through the eyes of a young boy, who only half-understands what he is witnessing."