[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Confederate Monument in Louisville

filed by the Kentucky Division of the Sons of Confederate Veterans along with several private individuals. The next day, the Jefferson County Attorney, representing the Mayor, asked for more time to prepare a defense for the intended monument removal. The court granted an extension to May 25, 2016.

The plaintiffs contended that Mayor Fischer, by attempting removal of the monument, was violating state and federal preservation law. On May 5, 2016, the attorney for the plaintiffs amended the complaint arguing the monument does not belong to the City of Louisville nor the university. The revised complaint contended the monument belongs to the State of Kentucky as it is a part of the transportation right of way.

At a hearing on May 25, 2016, citing lack of evidence to issue an injunction, the Circuit Court Judge dissolved the temporary restraining order. The City of Louisville agreed to hold the removal until the Judge completed her written ruling. Judge Judith McDonald-Burkman dismissed the lawsuit on June 20, 2016, allowing the city to remove the monument. In her ruling, the judge agreed there was no title or other document establishing legal ownership of the monument, but that the plaintiff's arguments were not sufficient.

Subsequently, Mayor Fischer stated no work would proceed until the city art commission had met and chosen a new site. In July 2016, the Louisville Commission on Public Art met with the public to discuss options of where to move the monument. Suggestions to the commission included a river front park in Brandenburg, Perryville Battlefield State Historic Site, and a site in Paducah owned by the Sons of Confederate Veterans.

Brandenburg, Kentucky

On November 15, 2016, Mayor Fischer announced the monument would be moved to Brandenburg, located 44 miles west of Louisville along the Ohio River in Meade County, Kentucky. Sarah Lindgren, the public art administrator for Louisville, said the time capsule, thought located within the monument, would be loaned to the Filson Historical Society for an exhibit if it was found. Dismantlement of the monument began November 19, 2016, and the time capsule was located two days later, and found to be in a poor state of preservation. The monument was scheduled to be moved to Brandenburg the week of November 28, 2016.

The University of Louisville Foundation estimated the cost of moving the monument at roughly $400,000. $350,000 was estimated as contributed by the Foundation, with $50,000 from the City of Louisville, and with the town of Brandenburg contributing an initial $10,000 for the new foundation. Messer Construction was tasked with the construction effort. The Mayor of Brandenburg, Ronnie Joyner, said the patina on the statues would not be removed. This decision was estimated to save about $7,400 in cost to the Foundation.

The work to relocate the monument to Brandenburg was completed on December 12, 2016. A monument rededication ceremony was performed on May 29, 2017, with approximately 400 in attendance.

The new location for the Confederate Monument is immediately west of the Riverfront Park at the terminus of Main Street in Brandenburg. The foundation is resting on St. Louis Limestone. East of the monument is a state historical marker where Gen John Hunt Morgan and his men crossed into Indiana in July 1863. The state marker is an entry for a historical walking trail along the Ohio River. Figures commemorating Native American settlement of the region, the Underground Railroad and additional information panels regarding Morgan's crossing are located along the trail. The park is the site for a biennial Civil War reenactment of the Great Raid of 1863.

In June 2020 there were protests of the monument around the time of the George Floyd protests. People largely from outside of the town (Motorcycle groups with lower rockers saying Virginia or Tennessee) came to defend the monument after a rumor of a protest regarding it started. Although protestors did show up, there was no formal application for a protest, or support from the Black Lives Matter organization. The attendees there to defend the monument were largely armed with rifles. Some attendees wore confederate regalia or flew Confederate battle flags, even the flag of the fictional Kekistan.

Historic status

A 2002 act of the General Assembly created the Kentucky Military Heritage Commission. The Commission oversees the protection of monuments and memorials in their registry. The Confederate monument is currently listed as a potential site.