[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Education in Jamaica

gh schools. Many have argued for a balance of students to be placed at all schools so as to remove the negative stigmas attached to certain schools.

In 2018, the Primary Exit Profile (PEP) replaced both the Grade 4 Literacy and Numeracy Test and the Grade Six Achievement Test.

Secondary education 

Lower School - Forms 1-3 (Generally ages 13 – 15) or grades 7-9
Students are exposed to a wide range of subjects, including Spanish and French as 2nd languages. Generally, Integrated Science is generally taught until the 3rd form, where students begin taking Physics, Biology and Chemistry as separate subjects. Some schools group students based on their academic achievement in the year prior. This can impact what subjects some students might be able to take later on in school, and what teachers they might be assigned to.

Upper School - Forms 4 & 5 or grades 10-11
In 4th form, students choose anywhere from 6-11 subjects (8 is the standard) that they will sit in the Caribbean Examination Council's (CXC) school leaving examinations (Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate). These exams are similar to the GCSE exams in the UK. Students are free to create their own curricula which must include but cannot be limited to: Mathematics and English Language. All others are optional, though some schools tend to make at least 1 other compulsory. Most students take at least one foreign language. The Council now offers 33 subjects including but not limited to: History, Geography, English Literature, Agricultural Science, Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Additional Mathematics, Spanish, French, Principles of Accounts, Principles of Business, Information Technology, Religious Education, Technical Drawing, Music, Visual Arts and Theater Arts. Generally, students are informally classified, or classify themselves as Arts, Sciences, Industrial Arts and Business students, especially if they plan on going to 6th form.

Grading: Some exams can be taken at either the Technical (5) or General Proficiency (28) levels. Exams are graded from Grades I to VI (up to VII, if CAPE - see below). For CSEC, I represents an outstanding performance; II is a good standard of performance; III is a fairly good standard of performance. IV and below are generally considered as failure as only Grades I through III are recognized as a pass for matriculation into tertiary institutions or entry into the work force.

Sixth Form - divided into upper and lower sixth, or grades 12 (lower) and 13 (upper)
Sixth form is an optional, two years long, advanced post secondary program, at the end of which students write the CAPE (Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Exams). These are the equivalent of the GCE A-Level examinations which were the standard up until 2003. Some students still choose to sit A-levels if they wish, but in doing so they must still meet CAPE's basic subject requirements/groupings. CAPE and A-level exams are significantly harder than exams sat at the end of high school, and are often thought to be harder than most exams students will ever sit in university.

Tertiary education 
Generally, A-Levels or CAPE examinations are required to enter the nation's universities. One may also qualify after having earned a 3-year diploma from an accredited post-secondary college. The word college usually denotes institutions which do not grant at least a bachelor's degree. Universities are typically the only degree granting institutions; however, many colleges have been creating joint programs with universities, and thus are able to offer some students more than a college diploma.