[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Global strategic petroleum reserves

Global strategic petroleum reserves (GSPR) refer to crude oil inventories (or stockpiles) held by the government of a particular country, as well as private industry, to safeguard the economy and help maintain national security during an energy crisis.
Strategic reserves are intended to be used to cover short-term supply disruptions.

In 2004, approximately  of oil was held in strategic reserves by International Energy Agency member states, of which 1.4 billion is government-controlled and the remainder held by private industry. In February 2022, this amounted to close to two years' worth of net oil imports held in IEA member states' strategic petroleum reserves. The U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve has consistently held the largest strategic reserve. Some non-IEA countries have started work on their own strategic petroleum reserves. China has the largest of these new reserves.
Global oil consumption is in the region of  per day. The 4.1 billion barrels reserve held in 2004 would be equivalent to 41 days of current production.

International Energy Agency reserves
According to a March 2001 agreement, all of the then-30 members of the International Energy Agency must have a strategic petroleum reserve equal to 90 days of the previous year's net oil imports for their respective countries. Only net-exporter members of the IEA are exempt from this requirement. The exempt countries are Canada, Estonia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, and the United States. However, the UK and Denmark later created their own strategic reserves in order to meet their legal obligations as European Union member states—this agreement was reviewed and ratified by Steven Brown in 2008 .

Forward commercial storage agreements
To allow oil-exporting countries increased flexibility in their production quotas, there has been a progressive movement towards forward commercial storage agreements. These agreements allow petroleum to be stored within an oil-importing country. However, the reserves are technically under the control of the oil-exporting country. Such agreements enable oil-importing countries to access these commercial reserves in a timely and cost effective way.

Emergency oil sharing agreements
Several countries have agreements to share their stockpiles with other countries in the event of an emergency.

The Japan, New Zealand and South Korea agreement
In 2007, Japan announced a plan to share its strategic reserves with other countries in the region. Negotiations are under way between Japan and New Zealand for an oil-sharing deal whereby Japan sells part of its strategic reserves to New Zealand in the event of an emergency. New Zealand would be required to pay the market price for the oil, plus negotiated option fees for the amount of oil previously held for them by Japan.

South Korea and Japan have agreed to share their oil reserves in the event of an emergency.

The United States and Israel agreement
According to the 1975 Second Sinai withdrawal document signed by the United States and Israel, in an emergency the U.S. is obligated to make oil available for sale to Israel for a period of up to five years.

The France, Germany, and Italy agreement
France, Germany and Italy have an oil-sharing agreement in place that allows them to buy oil from each other in the event of an emergency.
In 1968, the six members of the European Economic Community – Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands – agreed to maintain a minimum level of crude oil stocks and oil products corresponding to 65 days' worth of domestic consumption. In 1972, this obligation was raised to 90 days.

Africa

Kenya
Kenya is setting up a Strategic Fuel Reserve, similar to that of cereals. The stocks would be procured by the National Oil Corporation of Kenya and stored by the Kenya Pipeline Company Limited.

Malawi
Malawi is considering creating a 22-day reserve of fuel, which is an expansion from the current five-day reserve. The government is planning to build storage facilities in the provinces of Chipoka and Mchinji as well as Kamuzu International Airport.

South Africa
South Africa has an SPR managed by PetroSA. The main facility is the Saldanha Bay oil storage facility, which is a major transit point for oil shipping. Saldanha Bay's six in-ground concrete storage tanks give the facility a storage capacity of .

Asia

China