[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Texas (locomotive)

e engine received a cosmetic restoration performed at the North Carolina Transportation Museum by a private contractor, Steam Operations Corporation, who had previously restored the Norfolk and Western Railway no. 611 to operation at that facility, before being placed in the expanded history center.

The engine has been restored to its 1880s appearance, as opposed to the wartime appearance it had from the 1936 restoration.  As such, it received a new diamond stack similar to the one it had when retired, as well as a new cowcatcher with vertical wooden slats (similar to that currently worn by the General), a black paint scheme, and was returned to its 1870s number, 12, though retains the Texas name, with a newly fabricated number plate to reflect the number.  The old balloon stack, cowcatcher, and other removed elements from the 1936 restoration will remain in the history center's collection, and may be exhibited separately.  The engine's new look caused a controversy in some circles, with critics saying the Texas's new look erased its Civil War history. Commenting on the engine's new appearance, Gordon Jones, of the Atlanta History Center, noted that the Texas was in service for fifty years, the Great Locomotive Chase occupying but a few hours of its service life, and said "We've already got one locomotive [the General] telling the story of the Great Locomotive Chase. We can utilize the Texas to tell a different story." The fully restored Texas was publicly unveiled by the North Carolina Transportation Museum on April 28, 2017, during a weekend long celebration in which it was exhibited alongside other engines at the museum, including the visiting Lehigh Valley No. 
126 and the above mentioned Norfolk and Western no. 611.

The Texas was scheduled to begin its two-day move to the Atlanta History Center on May 3, 2017, but a logistical issue delayed the beginning of the move from North Carolina until May 4. It arrived on May 5.  The Atlanta History Center's new Atlanta railroads exhibit, featuring the locomotive, opened on November 17, 2018. The Cyclorama painting and related exhibits opened to the public in spring 2019.

Confirmation of legal ownership
On April 12, 2015, the 153rd anniversary of the Great Locomotive Chase, the Marietta Daily Journal published an article advocating the transfer of the Texas to the Southern Museum of Civil War and Locomotive History in Kennesaw, Georgia. Several state legislators indicated their support, arguing the locomotive was state property due to its association with the once-public W&ARR. Following the piece, the Georgia State Properties Commission requested a legal opinion from the State's Office of the Attorney General concerning the engine's ownership. The State Attorney General's office concluded that the Texas was property of the City of Atlanta given the evidence discovered, particularly citing the NC&StL's right to disposition of property as clarified in their 1890 and 1919 leases with the State of Georgia for the W&ARR. As a result, the donation of the Texas'' to the City of Atlanta on February 17, 1908 was a legally permissible transfer, meaning the City of Atlanta continues to hold ownership rights to the locomotive today.

References

 Andrews Raid description of the Texas
 Texas Information Page

Texas
Cooke locomotives
Texas
Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Railway vehicles on the National Register of Historic Places in Georgia (U.S. state)
Texas
Railway locomotives on the National Register of Historic Places
Railway weapons
Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis Railway
National Register of Historic Places in Atlanta
5 ft gauge locomotives
Standard gauge locomotives of the United States
Railway locomotives introduced in 1856
Great Locomotive Chase
Preserved steam locomotives of Georgia