[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles H. Larrabee

Larrabee was commended for his work inspiring and directing the regiment during the battle.

After the battle, they marched through the Chickahominy marsh land, and Larrabee fell ill along with others in the regiment.  He recuperated at White House, Virginia, but would continue to exhibit symptoms.

When new Wisconsin regiments were raised that summer, Governor Edward Salomon appointed Larrabee to organize and command the new 24th Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry Regiment.  When the 24th regiment mustered into service in August, Larrabee was promoted to colonel.  The regiment was quickly ordered to Kentucky, before much drilling or preparation.

The regiment was attached to the Army of the Cumberland, and arrived in time to join the Battle of Perryville, which ended the Confederate incursion in Kentucky.  During the battle, the 24th was assigned to defend a cannon battery, which came under assault from a Confederate brigade, led by Daniel Weisiger Adams.  The attack was repulsed, and Larrabee was commended by his brigade commander, Colonel Nicholas Greusel, for his leadership in the defense of the battery.

After the battle, Larrabee again fell ill and recuperated in Nashville, Tennessee, while the regiment fought at the Battle of Stones River.  In March, 1863, Larrabee returned to the regiment for a short time, but ultimately resigned in August due to his ongoing illness.

Postbellum years

In the spring of 1864, still plagued by his illnesses—diarrhea and erysipelas in the head—he sought relief in the climates of California, then Nevada, then Oregon, where he practiced law with his old congressional colleague, Lansing Stout.  He later returned to California, where his wife died in August, 1873.

After his wife's death, he moved to Seattle in the Washington Territory and resided with Beriah Brown.  While there he became a member of a state constitutional convention and helped to organize a state university in Seattle.

In 1868 he was in Los Angeles, California, where he and William A. Winder, the former commander of the U.S. prison on Alcatraz Island, opened an agency "for the purchase and sale of lands in the southern part of the state." In April 1868 he was elected city attorney. None of the officials elected at that time served, however, and the election "seems to have been wholly ignored."

Larrabee eventually settled in San Bernardino, California, where he resumed his law practice.

Death

Larrabee was killed in a train accident at the Tehachapi Loop near Tehachapi, California, on January 20, 1883. He was survived by a son and daughter. Interment was in the Masonic Cemetery, San Francisco.

An attempt was made in the settlement of his estate to show that the claim by his second wife was not legitimate, but she produced a marriage certificate and letters to show that it was, and the marriage was therefore allowed in San Bernardino Superior Court. In June 1884, John Anderson, executor of Larrabee's estate, filed a court action in San Bernardino against the Central Pacific Railroad, asking $100,000 in damages.

The town of Larrabee, Wisconsin, is named in his honor.

Electoral history

Wisconsin Supreme Court (1852)

| colspan="6" style="text-align:center;background-color: #e9e9e9;"| General Election, September 1852

U.S. House of Representatives (1858, 1860)

| colspan="6" style="text-align:center;background-color: #e9e9e9;"| General Election, November 2, 1858

| colspan="6" style="text-align:center;background-color: #e9e9e9;"| General Election, November 6, 1860

References

Further reading
 Testament to Larrabee after his death, San Bernardino Times, quoted in "Col. C.H. Larrabee," Los Angeles Herald, January 26, 1883

External links
 

|-

|-

1820 births
1883 deaths
Accidental deaths in California
Politicians from Rome, New York
People from Horicon, Wisconsin
People of Wisconsin in the American Civil War
Justices of the Wisconsin Supreme Court
Wisconsin state court judges
Union Army officers
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Wisconsin
Railway accident deaths in the United States
19th-century American politicians
U.S. state supreme court judges admitted to the practice of law by reading law
19th-century American judges
Burials at Woodlawn Memorial Park Cemetery (Colma, California)
Burials at Masonic Cemetery (San Francisco)