[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# March 1973

t Bridge in Portland, Oregon, was accomplished with the placement of 32 hydraulic jacks working in tandem.
Died: 
José Gorostiza, 71, Mexican poet, educator, and diplomat
Gustavs Tūrs, 82, leader of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Latvia in the Soviet Union as Archbishop of Riga from 1948 to 1968

March 17, 1973 (Saturday)
An angry pilot of the Khmer Air Force killed 43 people and injured 35 in Cambodia after making a dive bomb attack on the presidential palace in Phnom Penh. Most of the dead were inside the barracks of the Chamcar Mon Palace guards, including families of the guards. After the bombing, Captain So Patra flew his T-28 fighter bomber to an airstrip near Koh Kong near Khmer Rouge controlled territory, then to Communist China's Hainan Island. Subsequent investigation showed that So Patra was the son-in-law of former King Norodom Sihanouk, as husband of Sihanouk's daughter Botum Bopha, and that the death toll had increased to 36 people from two bombs. Arrested also were two more of Sihanouk's children, sons Norodom Ranareth and Nortodom Chahrapon, and daughter Bopha Devi and her husband. 
Three of the last four surviving members of the Bugojno group, Croatian separatists who had fought against the Yugoslavian Army on June 25, 1972, were executed. Duro Horvat, Vejsil Keškić and Mirko Vlasnović were shot by a firing squad at the police headquarters in Sarajevo.
Many of the few remaining United States soldiers began to leave Vietnam. One reunion of a former POW with his family would be immortalized in the Pulitzer Prize-winning photograph Burst of Joy.
At Dublin's Croke Park, Leinster GAA defeated Munster, 1–13 to 2-08 (17 to 14) to win the Railway Cup, the Gaelic Athletic Association championship in Ireland's sport of hurling.
The University of Wisconsin Badgers won the NCAA ice hockey championship at the Boston Garden, defeating Denver 4 to 2. The tournament's most outstanding player, Wisconsin's Dean Talafous, would go on to a seven-year career in the National Hockey League. 
Born: 
Caroline Corr, Irish musician and drummer of The Corrs; in Dundalk, County Louth
Rico Blanco, popular Filipino rock singer; in Manila
Died: 
Herbert D. Strauss, 63, American advertising executive and Chairman of the Grey Advertising Agency
Franz Rademacher, 67, convicted German war criminal known for the 1940 Madagascar Plan to deport Jews to the African island of Madagascar

March 18, 1973 (Sunday)
The U.S. Supreme Court decided the case of Gaffney v. Cummings, setting the current standard in the U.S. for determining fairness in reapportionment and determination of election districts. In a 6 to 3 decision, written by Justice Byron R. White, the court determined that a mean deviation of less than two percent between the number of persons in the largest and smallest districts was acceptable, and that a ruling on the fairness of a majority political party's geographical construction of a district was a political question reserved to determination by the individual states rather than the federal judiciary. White wrote "minor deviations from mathematical equality among state legislative districts are insufficient to make out a prima facie case of invidious discrimination... if for no other reason than that the basic statistical materials which legislatures and courts usually have to work with are the results of the United States census taken at 10-year intervals and published as soon as possible after the beginning of each decade. These figures may be as accurate as such immense undertakings can be, but they are inherently less than absolutely accurate. Those who know about such things recognize this fact."
In Argentina, soccer football player Eduardo Maglioni set the record for fastest hat-trick by scoring three goals for Club Atlético Independiente of Avellaneda in 1 minute and 51 seconds, in a match against Gimnasia of La Plata.
St John's High School, Dromore, County Tyrone, Northern Ireland, was bombed by the Ulster Volunteer Force, causing extensive damage.
The Estadio 23 de Agosto opened in San Salvador de Jujuy, Argentina. 
In the U.S., one person was killed and 19 of 167 passengers were injured near East Palestine, Ohio, when the last five cars of Amtrak's westbound Broadway Limited were derailed in a heavy snowstorm. A spokesman said recent heavy rains may have weakened the roadbed beneath the rails.
Died: 
William Benton, 72, American publisher, chairman of the Board of the Encyclopædia Britannica company since 1943, and U.S. Senator for Connecticut, 1949 to 1953 
Lauritz Melchior, 82, Danish-born opera tenor at the Copenhagen Opera and later at New York's Metropolitan Opera, died following a gall bladder operation.
Constantin von Dietze, 81, German agronomist who was one of the few persons to survive being implicated in the 1944 attempt to assassinate Adolf Hitler, the 20 July Plot. Von Dietze was awaiting trial when he was liberated from a Berlin prison in 1945.
Roland Dorgelès, 87, French novelist
Royce Ho