[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services

bility Rights North Carolina further reported that people were dying as they waited to be assessed for services. Explained WRAL, "the state tried to rid the system of fraud and abuse, but the result has been that those who aren't trying to take advantage of the system are unintentionally penalized."

Vetoes and budget cuts (2011)
The state budget for the division overseeing Medicaid was around $3 billion by 2011. In July 2011, Republican lawmakers in North Carolina overrode three of Governor Bev Perdue's vetoes, including her veto of the budget bill for the state, making the S781 measure into law. Medical Malpractice Reform S33 and Medicaid/Health Choice Provider Requirement S496 were also both passed into law. The vetoes met with a fair degree of controversy both politically and in the press. About one of the passed laws, WRAL wrote "federal rules require Medicaid to be managed by a single state agency. S496 would give the final say in Medicaid appeals to an administrative law judge, not to NCDHHS, the agency administering the grant. Democratic critics of the bill said the change could provoke federal officials to withhold some or all of the state's Medicaid money, but Republicans countered that if it did, NCDHHS could suspend that part of the statute while seeking a waiver from the feds."

As a result of the vetoes, Republican lawmakers passed a $19.7 billion state budget that dictated cutting $356 million in state Medicaid funding by April 2012, with a provision requiring NCDHHS to make their own budget changes to achieve the cut. In August 2011, Cansler announced that NCDHHS would find it "next to impossible to achieve this budget," noting that the relatively long federal approval process for budget cuts might make the April 2012 deadline untenable. Cansler explained that without legislative approval of cuts granted in a timely manner, to meet the deadline NCDHHS would "have to make additional reductions," including potentially cutting services defined as "optional" such as podiatry, dental care, organ transplants and hearing aids. To allow input on what to cut, Cansler made North Carolina Medical Care Advisory Committee meetings public.

Budget shortfall and cuts (2011)
By October 2011, NCDHHS was facing a projected $139 million budget shortfall for Medicaid, partly because of "other agency liabilities that weren't paid for in the spending plan." NCDHHS argued that the legislature's dictated budget cuts hadn't taken into account a $300 million accounting error from 2008, and also hadn't noted that "the state also must repay $42 million after a federal audit found personal care services were either billed improperly or had inadequate documentation from providers." Among other problems, NCDHHS also stated that some of the requested cuts were illegal according to Medicaid's federal rules, and could endanger millions in federal revenue. Also, a slow approval process for changes from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services was projected to interfere in actually implementing the cuts before the state's deadline.

After creating a list of potential NCDHHS budget cuts for the General Assembly, on October 27, 2011, Cansler wrote a letter to Governor Perdue, arguing that forced NCDHHS cuts to meet the shortfall would be "devastating" to patients and health care providers in North Carolina. In response, House Speaker Thom Tillis argued the shortfall was the fault of NCDHHS for not communicating, stating "a lot of those cuts were made in consultation with the secretary and the Department of Health and Human Services. Obviously, if we'd been consulted by them and they said they weren't possible to begin with, (the cuts) wouldn't have been in there." Cansler, however, argued the nature of the cuts had been explained in two letters from the governor to the committee, dated in May and June.  According to NCDHHS, in October, several lawmakers "publicly pledged to help fill the shortfall," eyeing the state's at the time $150 surplus to help. Stated representative Nelson Dollar at the time, "we are not going to cut services, and we are not going to cut rates to make up for one-time liabilities."

Medicaid IT delays, shortfall patch (2011-12)
In late 2011, NCDHHS revealed ongoing problems with the state's contract to refurbish the Medicaid billing system. In particular, the state's 2008 contract with Affiliated Computer Services (ACS) had faced two year delays, with the budget running from $287 million to $495 million. All but about 10% of the contract was paid with federal, not state, dollars. Cansler stated the delays were due to constantly changing federal guidelines, requiring constant system redesign. A performance audit of NCDHHS released on January 10, 2012, found problems with oversight of the Medicaid system's development. Among other budgetary missteps, the audit claimed that the computer system had been altered after final approval, leading to unexpected changes in the software.