[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Principles of intelligent urbanism

utility in the design and construction of buildings.  Where large numbers of people gather in schools, hospitals, and other  public facilities that may become emergency shelters in disasters, special care must be exercised.  A suitable Building Code is the proposed instrument to achieve these aims.

PIU proponents state that those who design buildings must be professionally qualified architects; those who design the structures (especially of more than ground plus two levels) must be professionally qualified structural engineers; those who build buildings must be qualified civil engineers; and, those who supervise and control construction must be qualified construction managers.  Intelligent urbanism promotes the professionalisation of the city making process.  While promoting professionalism, intelligent urbanism proposes that this not become a barrier in the development process.  Small structures, low-rise structures, and humble structures that do not house many people can be self designed and constructed by the inhabitants themselves.  Proponents maintain that there must be recognized Professional Accrediting Boards, or Professional Bodies, to see that urban development employs adequate technical competence.

Finally, there must be legislation creating statutory local authorities, and empowering them to act, manage, invest, service, protect, promote and facilitate urban development and all of the opportunities that a modern city must sponsor.

Intelligent urbanism insists that cities, local authorities, regional development commissions and planning agencies be professionally managed.  City Managers can be hired to manage the delivery of services, the planning and management of planned development, the maintenance of utilities and the creation of amenities.

Intelligent urbanism views plans and urban designs and housing configurations as expressions of the people for whom they are planned.  The processes of planning must therefore be a participatory involving a range of stakeholders.  The process must be a transparent one, which makes those privileged to act as guardians of the people's will accountable for their decisions and choices.  Intelligent urbanism sees urban planning and city governance as the most salient expressions of civility.  Intelligent urbanism fosters the evolution of institutional systems that enhance transparency, accountability and rational public decision making.

Movements implementing the ten principles
Though not necessarily related to the principles of intelligent urbanism, there are examples representing all or some of them in urban design theory and practice.
Concurrently, the recent movements of New Urbanism and New Classical Architecture promote a sustainable approach towards construction, that appreciates and develops smart growth, architectural tradition and classical design. This in contrast to modernist and globally uniform architecture, as well as leaning against solitary housing estates and suburban sprawl. Both trends started in the 1980s. The Driehaus Architecture Prize is an award that recognizes efforts in New Urbanism and New Classical Architecture, and is endowed with a prize money twice as high as that of the modernist Pritzker Prize.

See also

 Christopher Charles Benninger
 Broadacre City
 Garden city movement
 New Classical architecture
 New Urbanism
 Josep Lluis Sert
 Smart growth
 Social access
 Structure plan
 Sustainable city

 Team Ten
 Theories of urban planning
 Transit-oriented development
 Urban design
 Urban studies
 Urban village
 Urban vitality
 Vitruvius

Notes

References