[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ákos Buzsáky

3 July 2012, it was announced that Buzsáky would be leaving the club, having failed to agree on a new contract.

Whilst he decided his next move, Buzsáky trained in his native Hungary, with Hungarian outfit Videoton. Buzsáky was linked with Championship sides like Nottingham Forest and Bristol City.

Portsmouth
On 27 September, it was reported that Buzsáky was on trial with League One side Portsmouth and on 1 October 2012, Buzsáky agreed terms on a one-month deal with the League One outfit. He made his debut, coming on as a substitute, in the 2–2 away draw at MK Dons on 6 October 2012. He made six appearances for the club before joining Barnsley on loan. Buzsáky spoke about joining Portsmouth, citing building his fitness as the principal reason, and admitted he was keen to stay at the club. However, in January 2013, he left Portsmouth as a free agent to live in his home country of Hungary whilst he recovered from a knee operation. Portsmouth's caretaker manager Guy Whittingham claimed Buzsáky asked to leave the club after being left out of the first-team.

Ferencváros
On 11 September 2013, Buzsáky returned to Hungary to sign for Ferencváros. He announced his retirement from professional football on 13 October 2015 due to injury problems.

International career
Buzsáky has represented Hungary as a full international, gaining his first cap on 3 September 2005 against Malta in Budapest. He scored his first international goal on 21 November 2007 in a Euro 2008 qualifier, a 2–1 defeat at home against European champions Greece, although the goal is sometimes given as a Kostas Katsouranis own goal as it took a big deflection off the Greek midfielder.

Career statistics

Club

International

International goals

Honours

Club
MTK Hungária
 Hungarian Cup: 2000
 Hungarian League: Runner-up 2000
FC Porto
 Primeira Liga: 2002-03
 UEFA Cup: 2002-03
 Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira: 2003
Queens Park Rangers
 Football League Championship: 2010–11

Individual
 Young Hungarian Player of the Year: 2003
 Player of the Month in The Championship: January 2007

References

External links

1982 births
Living people
Footballers from Budapest
Hungarian men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Hungary men's international footballers
MTK Budapest FC players
Hungarian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Portugal
FC Porto players
Hungarian expatriate sportspeople in Portugal
Académica de Coimbra (football) players
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Plymouth Argyle F.C. players
Hungarian expatriate sportspeople in England
Queens Park Rangers F.C. players
Portsmouth F.C. players
Barnsley F.C. players
Ferencvárosi TC footballers
UEFA Cup winning players
English Football League players
Premier League players
Nemzeti Bajnokság I players