[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War

and clash with Hezbollah which left three IDF tank personnel wounded.  There were unconfirmed reports of a late-night incursion by IDF on the western range of the Lebanese mountains and four Israeli IAF raids targeted the Faraya road around Hermel in the Bekaa valley.

August 1–4

Tuesday, August 1

Hezbollah said its fighters managed to destroy an Israeli warship of the coast of Tyre, though Israel disputed the claim. Shelling of Mansouri, Shamaa and Teir Harfan took place by IDF Naval units. Operations continued around Hermel with an attack on a pickup truck loaded with cooking gas tanks, and 5 strikes on a road linking eastern Lebanon to western regions and coastline.  Attacks were also reported around the Masnaa crossing into Syria, which had been subject to a series of attacks in the last three days.  Two of the four border crossings into Syria are now closed because of damage- the main Beirut-Damascus highway was described by the Jerusalem Post as "impassable" due to previous attacks.  Defense Minister Peretz said that attacks would continue on targets which he reportedly described as "convoys smuggling weapons across the border into Lebanon".  Shelling of the Ba'labak area near the Syrian border and several areas in Al Biqa' region were also reportedly hit with shelling and three air strikes. Six airstrikes reportedly hit the village of Sour. Al-Jazeera TV reported that Israeli aircraft bombed Bayyada, and Mansoureh.  The IDF reported that twenty Hezbollah fighters in the villages of Al Taiba and Al Adasiyya were killed during fighting in the areas since July 30.
A clash between IDF Paratroopers & Hezbollah was reported to have taken place around Ayta a-Shaab with three IDF dead by anti-tank fire with the IDF saying twenty Hezbollah died in the fighting.  The IDF later confirmed the HeAzbollah dead as ten.
Hezbollah issued a statement saying that the IDF had killed three Hezbollah fighters during fighting around Kfar Kila, Odaisseh, and Taibeh, near the Lebanese town of Marjayoun. Hezbollah gave its fatalities since July 13 as forty-eight in total.  While the IDF reported four Hezbollah dead.  Five rockets and a number of mortar shells were fired at the western Galilee between Rosh HaNikra and  on Tuesday wounding five IDF.

Wednesday, August 2
Between evening of August 1 and early on August 2 IDF Commandos were reported to be engaged in fighting around Dar al-Hikma Hospital in Baalbek, an area described as a "Hezbollah stronghold".  The intended target of the raid was reported to have been Sheikh Mohammed Yazbek a member of Hezbollah's Shoura Council, and a Lebanese representative of the Iranian spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Last month the IAF bombed his house in Baalbek.  It was unclear whether Yazbek had been captured by IDF but it was reported that he was not in the hospital at the time of the raid.  The IDF denied Yazbek was the intended target of the raid on the hospital but three unidentified POW described as "Hizbullah officials" were captured.  In a broadcast on Al-Manar TV Hezbollah said "Those who were taken prisoner are citizens. It will not be long before the enemy will discover that they are ordinary citizens." 11 civilians were reported killed, 10 Lebanese and one Syrian.

Hezbollah said it had attacked an Israeli Army armoured unit inside Lebanon, destroying two tanks and leaving their crews dead or wounded as they attempted to advance on the Rub Thalatheen hill at Adaisseh.  The IDF denied the report.

Thursday, August 3
An IDF missile struck a house in Taibeh in the early morning, killing a family of three, Lebanese security officials said. Taibeh was the scene of fighting between IDF & Hezbollah. Hezbollah said it destroyed one IDF tank and two bulldozers killing or woundings it occupants. IDF said one tank was damaged with no casualties.

132 rockets hit Israel by 1300 hrs localtime. 100 hitting northern Israel in a matter of minutes. Israeli death toll in the conflict stood at 68, with 41 soldiers killed in fighting and 27 civilians in rocket attacks. Lebanese PM Saniora said more than 900 people had been killed and 3,000 wounded, but he did not say whether the new figure, a rise of 380 from 520 confirmed dead also included those missing presumed dead.

Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah vowed to strike Tel Aviv in retaliation for Israel's bombardment of Lebanon's capital, Beirut. "If you hit Beirut, the Islamic resistance will hit Tel Aviv and is able to do that with God's help", Nasrallah said in a televised address.

Hezbollah spokesman Hussein Rahal told al Jazeera television: "Declaring a cease-fire is not the concern of the people of Lebanon as long as there is one Israeli soldier on Lebanese soil – even one meter (into Lebanon).. We will not accept any (Israeli) soldier staying on Lebanese territory, and it is the right of every Lebanese to fight until liberation."