[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# Constructive set theory

vative over primitive recursive arithmetic .
Note that the -induction is also part of the second-order reverse mathematics base system , its other axioms being  plus -comprehension of subsets of naturals. The theory  is -conservative over . Those last mentioned arithmetic theories all have ordinal .

Let us mention one more step beyond the -induction schema. Lack of stronger induction schemas means, for example, that some unbounded versions of the pigeon hole principle are unprovable. One relatively weak one being the Ramsey theorem type claim here expressed as follows: For any  and coding of a coloring map , associating each  with a color , it is not the case that for every color  there exists a threshold input number  beyond which  is not ever the mappings return value anymore. (In the classical context and in terms of sets, this claim about coloring may be phrased positively, as saying that there always exists at least one return value  such that, in effect, for some unbounded domain  it holds that . In words, when  provides infinite enumerated assignments, each being of one of  different possible colors, it is claimed that a particular  coloring infinitely many numbers always exists and that the set can thus be specified, without even having to inspect properties of . When read constructively, one would want  to be concretely specifiable and so that formulation is a stronger claim.) Higher indirection, than in induction for mere existential statements, is needed to formally reformulate such a negation (the Ramsey theorem type claim in the original formulation above) and prove it. Namely to restate the problem in terms of the negation of the existence of one joint threshold number, depending on all the hypothetical 's, beyond which the function would still have to attain some color value. More specifically, the strength of the required bounding principle is strictly between the induction schema in  and .
For properties in terms of return values of functions on finite domains, brute force verification through checking all possible inputs has computational overhead which is larger the larger the size of the domain, but always finite. Acceptance of an induction schema as in  validates the former so called infinite pigeon hole principle, which concerns unbounded domains, and so is about mappings with infinitely many inputs.

It is worth noting that in the program of predicative arithmetic, even the mathematical induction schema has been criticized as possibly being impredicative, when natural numbers are defined as the object which fulfill this schema, which itself is defined in terms of all naturals.

Exponentiation 
Classical  without the Powerset axiom is still consistent with all existing sets of reals being subcountable, and there even countable. Such a theory essentially amounts to second-order arithmetic.

Possible choice principles were discussed, a weakened form of the Separation schema was already adopted, and more of the standard  axioms shall be weakened for a more predicative and constructive theory. The first one of those is the Powerset axiom, which is adopted in the form of the space of characteristic functions, itself tied to exactly the decidable subclasses. The following axiom  is strictly stronger than its pendant for finite domains discussed above:

The formulation here again uses the convenient notation for function spaces, as discussed above. In words, the axiom says that given two sets , the class  of all functions is, in fact, also a set.
This is certainly required, for example, to formalize the object map of an internal hom-functor like 

Adopting existence statements like Exponentiation, i.e. function spaces being sets, quantification  over the elements of certain classes of functions now only range over sets. The axiom directly enriches the domain of sets, but with it also enables the derivation of yet more, via bounded Separation, which in turn also strengthens other axioms. Notably, these bounded quantifiers now range over function spaces that are provably uncountable, and hence even classically uncountable. E.g. the collection of all functions  where , i.e. the set  of points underlying the Cantor space, is uncountable, by Cantor's diagonal argument, and can at best be taken to be a subcountable set. In this theory one may now also quantify over subspaces of spaces like , which may be understood as collections of decidable predicates, and which is a third order notion on the naturals. (In this section and beyond, the symbol for the semiring of natural numbers in expressions like  is used, or written , just to avoid conflation of cardinal- with ordinal exponentiation.) Without further axioms, intuitionistic mathematics has models in recursive functions but also forms of hypercomputation. Such a theory does not prove a function space like  to be not enumerable, in the sense of injections out of it.