[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ianis Zicu

th The Railwaymen, as under the guidance of coach Răzvan Lucescu he scored 12 league goals, helped the club reach the UEFA Cup group stage and win the Cupa României, scoring the second goal of the 2–0 victory against Politehnica Timișoara from the final when he was also named "The man of the match".

Third spell at Dinamo București
Freed from his contract with Inter Milan, Zicu returned to Dinamo București, signing a four-year contract with the champions of the last season, being wanted by coach Mircea Rednic, with the objective of reaching the Champions League group stage, but in the 6th minute of the first leg from the third qualifying round against Lazio Roma, he left the field after getting his right knee injured by Guglielmo Stendardo, also the team did not qualify, losing with 4–2 on aggregate. The injury kept him off the field for six months, returning to the field in February 2009 but in April the same year he got injured again in a 4–4 with Universitatea Craiova, this time spending 11 months off the field. During the period in between the two injuries he also played for the team's satellite, Dinamo II in the second league, scoring a spectacular goal by kicking the ball with the hell over the goalkeeper after receiving a 60 meters pass in a 5–2 loss against FC Botoșani, which gained attention including from the Italian press, Corriere dello Sport writing:"What a great goal the former Inter player scored". In his last season spent at the club he helped them fulfill "The wonder from Liberec" after winning with 3–0 the away game against Slovan Liberec, as the first leg was lost with the same score, qualifying after the penalty shoot-out to the group stage of the 2009–10 Europa League.

Politehnica Timișoara
On 21 July 2010, Zicu signed a five-year contract with Politehnica Timișoara who paid 300.000€ to Dinamo for his transfer. He made his debut for the team in the second leg from the third qualifying round of the 2010–11 Europa League against MyPa, scoring his side's second goal in the 80th minute as MyPa were leading 3–0 at half time, completing an amazing comeback in the second half after Marián Čišovský equalized in the 90+2 minute and as in the first leg Politehnica won with 2–1, they qualified to the competition's play-offs where they were eliminated by Manchester City. Zicu had the most prolific season of his career, being the top-goalscorer of the season as he scored a personal record of 18 goals in the league, including three braces in three victories against Rapid București, FCM Târgu Mureș and Gaz Metan Mediaș, also the team finished the season on the second position.

CSKA Sofia
On 16 June 2011, Zicu moved abroad to sign with Bulgarian club CSKA Sofia for 3 years. On 30 July he made his competitive debut for CSKA under coach Milen Radukanov in the Bulgarian Supercup against Litex Lovech, scoring from a penalty to make the result 2–1 for CSKA, the match ending with a 3–1 victory, thus winning the trophy. In August he played in both legs of the Europa League play-off for the group stage against Steaua București, losing with 3–1 on aggregate. On 28 October, Zicu scored the only goal in the Eternal derby of Bulgaria to help CSKA earn a 1–0 home win over Levski Sofia, then he scored a hat-trick on 12 November in a 3–1 home win over Minyor Pernik, finishing the first half of the 2011–12 A PFG season as the top scorer of the league, having netted 13 times in total, forming a couple in the team's offence with Júnior Moraes.

Pohang Steelers
In late December 2011, it was revealed that Zicu had been transferred to South Korean club Pohang Steelers, signing a two-year deal with an option for a fourth year (a two-year extension) for an undisclosed fee, though media reports estimated it to be €2.3 million. He made his official debut as a starter on 18 February 2012 in the 2–0 win over Thai club Chonburi in an AFC Champions League play-off match which helped them advance to the group stage where he made three more appearances without scoring. Zicu scored his first goal for the team on 11 March 2012, in the 1–1 away draw with Gwangju in a K-League game, then one week later he scored a brace in a 2–2 in front of Busan IPark, gaining a total of 6 goals in 15 league appearances for Pohang, also winning the 2012 Korean FA Cup with them.

Gangwon
On 24 July 2012, he agreed to join the K League side Gangwon on a 6-month loan deal until the end of the 2012 season, a period in which he scored 9 goals in 17 K-League appearances, including a hat-trick in a 5–3 away loss in front of Daejeon Citizen. In January 2013, Zicu was transferred definitely to Gangwon, scoring 6 goals in 27 matches for the team in the 2013 K League season.