[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vyborg Manifesto

nd liberals signed a manifesto, calling on the Russian people to rebel against the government by refusing to pay taxes or to provide recruits for the army.

According to the historian Orlando Figes, the Vyborg Manifesto was "a typical example of the Kadets' militant posturing" since Duma's opening. 

The Manifesto was written by Pavel Milyukov and signed by 120 Kadet and 80 Trudovik and Social Democrat deputies, alongside some other political representatives like Social Revolutionaries and Muslims.

Aftermath

The Manifesto was met with nearly-universal indifference from the people. That allowed the government to use repressive methods to silence its most outspoken liberal critics. Over 100 leading members of the Kadet Party were brought to trial and then suspended from the Duma for their participation in the manifesto. They were replaced in the Second and the Third Dumas by less radical and less talented politicians than those who had been suspended. The new politicians also went along a more conservative line and stayed within the Tsar's laws to defend the parliament, as the party now lived in the "shadow of the "Vyborg complex"". The entire Kadet leadership was one of the groups that were targeted by being banned from participation in future Dumas.

As a result of the events surrounding the Manifesto, the Kadet Party lost all trust in the people's support and no longer claimed to represent them either. Instead, they consciously became what they de facto had been all along, the "natural party" of the bourgeois. The liberals' failure to rally the masses in defence of the Duma in practice left them "high and dry" and only clinging on in the hope of persuading the Tsarist regime to liberalise itself and with an even larger fear of 'the masses'. 

Despite their change towards conservatism, the government remained suspicious of the Kadets until the fall of the monarchy in 1917.

Signatories

Pyotr Dmitriyevich Dolgorukov
Sergey Muromtsev
Pavel Novgorodtsev
Sergey Urusov
Note: Georgy Lvov became ill whilst travelling to Vyborg and had to return to the capital. It is however clear that he sympathised with it.

References

Bibliography
 
 Gross, David (ed.) We Won’t Pay!: A Tax Resistance Reader,  pp. 307–312
 Lee, Stephen J. Lenin and Revolutionary Russia, Routledge, 2003
 Phillips, Steve. Lenin and the Russian Revolution, Heinemann, 2000,

External links
Text of Vyborg Manifesto 
English Translation

1905 Russian Revolution
Tax resistance
1906 in the Russian Empire
1906 documents