[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election

e announces he is setting up an exploratory committee, saying that he is a "Reagan Republican."
 December 28 – John Edwards officially launches his campaign in New Orleans, Louisiana, following an Internet glitch causing his website to announce his candidacy earlier than planned.

2007

January 2007

January 1 – Republican candidate Rudy Giuliani's campaign strategy is made public in the New York Daily News. Giuliani claims the material was stolen while the News claims it was left in a hotel accidentally.
January 3 – Outgoing Republican Governor of Massachusetts Mitt Romney sets up a presidential exploratory committee.
January 5 – Republican Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas's exploratory committee announces his campaign will officially start on January 20.
January 7 – Democratic Senator Joe Biden of Delaware declares he is running, and will set up an exploratory committee later in the month.
January 9 – Civil rights activist and 2004 Democratic candidate Al Sharpton says that he is considering another run for president.
January 11 – Democratic Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut officially announces his candidacy. Republican Representative Ron Paul of Texas announces the formation of a presidential exploratory committee. The Democratic National Committee announces that it will hold its 2008 National Convention in Denver, Colorado.
January 15 – Republican Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado establishes an exploratory committee.
January 17 – Democratic Senator Barack Obama of Illinois announces that he is forming an exploratory committee.
January 20 – Democratic Senator Hillary Clinton announces that she is forming an exploratory committee. Republican Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas officially announces his candidacy for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination in a rally in his home state.
January 21 – Democratic Governor Bill Richardson of New Mexico announces the formation of a presidential exploratory committee. 
January 24 – 2004 Democratic nominee John Kerry rules out a presidential run to seek re-election to his United States Senate seat.
January 25 – Republican Representative Duncan Hunter of California formally and officially becomes a candidate.
January 28 – Mike Huckabee officially announces his candidacy on Meet the Press.
January 31 – Democratic Senator Joe Biden of Delaware formally and officially becomes a candidate.

February 2007

February 1 – The Democratic National Committee's annual winter meeting convenes in Washington, D.C., featuring ten presidential candidates.
February 5 – Former Republican Mayor of New York City Rudy Giuliani files a statement of candidacy with the Federal Election Commission.
February 10 – Democratic Senator Barack Obama of Illinois formally and officially announces his candidacy.
February 13 – Former Republican Governor Mitt Romney of Massachusetts formally and officially announces his candidacy.
February 21 – The first presidential forum is held in Carson City.
February 23 – Former Democratic Governor Tom Vilsack of Iowa withdraws from the race, citing money problems.
February 28 – Republican John McCain of Arizona states that he will formally announce his candidacy in April.

March 2007

March 1 – John McCain wins the Spartanburg County, South Carolina Republican Party straw poll, with 22.6 percent of the vote.
March 3 – The Conservative Political Action Conference straw poll is won by Mitt Romney with 21 percent of the vote. 1,705 votes are cast.
 March 9 – A Nevada Democratic debate is canceled to protest editorial policies of Fox News.
March 11 – Former Republican Senator Fred Thompson of Tennessee announces on Fox News that he is considering a presidential campaign.
 March 12 – Republican Representative Ron Paul of Texas announces his candidacy on C-SPAN.
March 22 – Democratic candidate John Edwards's wife Elizabeth announces that her breast cancer has become malignant, but her husband's campaign will go on.

April 2007

April 1 – Former Republican Governor of Wisconsin and Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thompson announces his presidential candidacy.
April 2 – Republican Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado announces his presidential candidacy.
April 12 – Barack Obama wins a straw poll held at a virtual town hall debate between the Democratic candidates on the subject of the Iraq War, with 27.87 percent of the vote. 4,882 votes are cast.
April 25–April 27 – John McCain launches his presidential campaign with stops in New Hampshire, South Carolina, Iowa and Arizona.
April 26 – Former Virginia Governor Jim Gilmore formally announces his candidacy for the Republican nomination. The South Carolina Democratic Party hosts a presidential debate at South Carolina State University in Orangeburg County.
April 28 – The California State Democratic Convention is attended by seven of the eight major candidates.