[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Government Finance Officers Association

the magazine explores best practices in the realm of government finance, suggests solutions to questions facing public finance officers, reports the latest news in governmental accounting, examines intergovernmental affairs, and provides the latest information in the field.

Awards and Scholarships 

The GFOA sponsors award programs designed to encourage sound financial reporting for financial documents including the Comprehensive annual financial report, or CAFR, and the annual budget. The group also awards an award for Excellence in government finance. Governments in both the US and Canada are encouraged to enter. GFOA also sponsors the Frank L. Greathouse Government Scholarship each year for use by a college senior preparing for a career in state or local government finance. Recently, GFOA founded a 1-year Research Fellow program for recent graduates from the University of Chicago with an interest in public finance and small government.

GFOA Conference 

GFOA’s Annual Conference attracts approximately 5,000 government finance professionals and provides a forum to discuss innovative practices, learn from best practice examples, network with peers, and interact with exhibitors.

Training 

GFOA provides professional development training opportunities to state, provincial, and local level government officials and other finance practitioners each year.  Training courses are presented as basic, intermediate, advanced, update, or overview.

As part of a commitment to professional development, the GFOA offers a Certified Public Finance Officer (CPFO) certification program.  To earn the CPFO, candidates must pass seven examinations covering:  Accounting and Financial Reporting, Compensation and Benefits, Debt Management, Planning and Budgeting, Treasury and Investment Management, Procurement, and Risk Assessment. Once earned, the CPFO designation requires 30 hours of continuing professional education each year. GFOA consultants are regular trainers at these events. Additionally, GFOA's training curriculum has helped thousands of Government finance workers receive CPE credit in a variety of areas, from accounting to pension management. GFOA plans to expand the service into an online platform to provide more courses to more people.

See also
  California Society of Municipal Finance Officers (CSMFO)
  Government Finance Officers Association of Texas (GFOAT)

External links
 

Government finances in the United States
Professional associations based in the United States