[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Cecily of York

dowry that had already been paid. However, the negotiations were never resumed, because the Duke of Albany again turned to the English king for help, and his marriage with Cecily was again under consideration. However, negotiations for a marriage with Albany ceased, as Edward IV died in April 1483.

Court life and father's death
Little is known about Cecily's life during the Scottish marriage negotiations. Until December 1475, the princess was probably brought up by the governess Lady Margaret Berners (wife of John Bourchier, 1st Baron Berners, great-grandson of King Edward III and a close friend of the Queen Elizabeth's family); prior to this, Lady Margaret was engaged in the education of the elder sisters of the princess, Elizabeth and Mary. In 1476, Cecily, among others, attended the reburial ceremony for the remains of her paternal grandfather the Duke of York and his second son Edmund, Earl of Rutland at Fotheringay; two years later she attended the wedding of her younger brother Richard, Duke of York and Anne de Mowbray, 8th Countess of Norfolk. In 1480, she, along with her older sister Mary, were made Ladies of the Garter; historian Mary Anne Everett Green in 1851 pointed out that in documents about the renewal of the wardrobe of the royal family for the ceremony of consecration of princesses, Cecily was named before Mary, and expressed doubts about the latter being older.

On 9 April 1483, when Cecily was fourteen years old, Edward IV died suddenly. This was followed by a political crisis that dramatically changed the position of the queen and her children. Cecily's younger brother, Edward V, who succeeded to the throne, was captured by his uncle Lord Protector Richard, Duke of Gloucester. Anthony Woodville and Richard Grey (Cecily's uncle and half-brother respectively), who accompanied the young king, were arrested. Edward V was taken to the Tower of London, where he was later joined by his only full brother, the Duke of York; along with the rest of her children, among whom was Cecily, the now Queen Dowager Elizabeth took refuge in Westminster Abbey. Elizabeth devised a plan according to which one of her elder daughters, Elizabeth or Cecily, was to flee abroad in order to attract foreign supporters to rescue Edward V and Richard of York from the Tower; it was also planned that if the princes could not be saved, this princess, with the support of foreign supporters, would declare her rights to the throne. However, the plan was revealed to Richard of Gloucester by a certain "traitor in the queen's camp". On Gloucester's orders, his squire John Nesfield sent guards to Westminster, who, day and night, inspected everyone who entered and left the sanctuary.

Reign of Richard III
On 22 June 1483 the marriage of Edward IV with Elizabeth Woodville was declared illegal – all the children of the late king were declared illegitimate by the act of parliament Titulus Regius and deprived of their rights to the throne and all titles. A few days later, Cecily's uncle and half-brother, Anthony Woodville and Richard Gray, who had been captured previously, were executed. The Lord Protector, acting on information provided by Robert Stillington, Bishop of Bath and Wells, was offered the crown by the Three Estates of the Realm (Crown and Parliament) on the grounds that his brother's marriage had not been valid, and on 6 July he was proclaimed king as Richard III. Soon afterwards, Cecily's brothers Edward V and Richard of York (the "Princes in the Tower"), who remained locked up in the Tower, disappeared. Their fate has never been definitively resolved, although they are presumed to have died sometime in late 1483, either from disease or having been murdered. On Christmas Day 1483, Henry Tudor, whose mother had been plotting with Elizabeth Woodville against King Richard III, swore at Rennes Cathedral that he would marry the eldest daughter of Edward IV, Elizabeth, or his sister Cecily if marriage with Elizabeth was impossible for any reason, after he took the English throne. However, the uprising of the Tudor party, led by the Duke of Buckingham, failed even before Henry's oath in Rennes.