[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Convict leasing

cts, others indicate causes ranging from comprehensive legislative reforms to political retribution. Though the convict lease system, as such, disappeared, other types of convict labor continued (and still exist presently). These other systems include plantations, industrial prisons and chain gangs.

The convict lease system was gradually phased out during the early 20th century due to negative publicity and other factors. A notable case of negative publicity for the system was the case of Martin Tabert, a young white man from Munich, North Dakota. Arrested in late 1921 in Tallahassee, Florida on a charge of vagrancy for being on a train without a ticket, Tabert was convicted and fined $25. Although his parents sent $25 for the fine, plus $25 for Tabert to return home to North Dakota, the money disappeared while Tabert was held in the Leon County Jail. Tabert was then leased to the Putnam Lumber Company in Clara, a town in the Florida Panhandle approximately  south of Tallahassee in Dixie County. There, he was flogged to death by the whipping boss, Thomas Walter Higginbotham. Coverage of Tabert's killing by the New York World newspaper in 1924 earned it the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service. Governor Cary A. Hardee ended convict leasing in 1923, due in part to the Tabert case and the resulting publicity.

North Carolina, while without a system comparable to the other states, did not prohibit the practice until 1933. Alabama was the last to end the practice of official convict leasing in 1928 by the State, but many counties in the South continued the practice for years.

See also

Convict assignment (Australia)
Federal Prison Industries
Field holler
Field slaves in the United States
History of unfree labor in the United States
Penal labor in the United States
Ruiz v. Estelle
Slavery in the 21st century#Prison labor
Trusty system

References

Further reading
 Blackmon, Douglas A. Slavery by Another Name: The Re-Enslavement of Black Americans from the Civil War to World War II, New York: Anchor Books, Random House Publishing, 2008. .
 Kahn, Si, and Elizabeth Minnich. The Fox in the Henhouse: How Privatization Threatens Democracy, San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2005. .
 Moulder, Rebecca, H. "Convicts as Capital: Thomas O'Conner and the Leases of the Tennessee Penitentiary System, 1871–1883", East Tennessee Historical Society Publications, no. 48 (1976): 58–59.
 Oshinsky, David M. Worse Than Slavery: Parchman Farm and the Ordeal of Jim Crow Justice. New York: The Free Press, 1996. .
 Blue, Ethan. "Doing Time in the Depression: Everyday Life in Texas and California Prison". New York: New York University Press, 2012. .
 
 Cardon, Nathan. "'Less Than Mayhem': Louisiana's Convict Lease, 1865-1901" Louisiana History: The Journal of the Louisiana History Association (Fall, 2017): 416-439.
 Shapiro, Karen. A New South Rebellion: The Battle Against Convict Labor in the Tennessee Coalfields, 1871-1896 (University of North Carolina Press, 1998).
 Lichtenstein, Alex. Twice the Work of Free Labor: The Political Economy of Convict Labor in the New South (Verso, 1996).

External links
  Powell, J.C., The American Siberia (1891), memoir of 14 years in a Florida convict camp; full text online at GoogleBooks
Waters, Robert. "Convict Leasing in Florida, or A Postcard from a Southern Siberia", June 2007, guest post at Laura James' CLEWS, a literary blog about crime
 Slavery by Another Name (2012)

1844 establishments in Louisiana
1941 disestablishments in the United States
African-American history between emancipation and the civil rights movement
Agricultural labor in the United States
Anti-black racism in the United States
History of African-American civil rights
Imprisonment and detention in the United States
Jim Crow
Labor history of the United States
Legal history of the United States
Penal labor in the United States
Race legislation in the United States
Reconstruction Era
Repealed United States legislation
White supremacy in the United States
History of the Southern United States