[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Polish–Swedish union

Sigismund sent a diplomatic mission, in an attempt to solve the conflict by negotiations. Charles at first looked ready to negotiate but in fact he was playing for time, trying to confirm his power at another Riksdag (in Arboga), recruiting peasants for his army, and isolating Sigismund's followers.

In 1598, the Sejm gave Sigismund the go-ahead to wage a military campaign against his opponents in Sweden; however it refused to give him significant support. Sigismund's army was composed mostly of mercenaries (Germans and Hungarians), supported by a relatively small Polish force (although with some artillery). 

Sigismund's campaign was poorly planned. He was unable to coordinate his troop movements with his supporters, particularly Fleming who was supposed to attack Charles from Finland. After initial successes (the taking of Kalmar and defeating Charles' troops at Stegeborg), Sigismund's forces were defeated on September 25, 1598, at the Battle of Stångebro, (also known as the battle of Linköping). Sigismund was captured and forced to hand over some of his followers such as the Chancellor of Sweden, Erik Larsson Sparre, (1550–1600). In May 1599, Charles' forces captured the last fortress held by Sigismund, Kalmar.  On July 24, 1599, the Riksdag in Stockholm officially dethroned Sigismund. The new King of Sweden was Charles IX of Sweden, and the Polish–Swedish union was dissolved after barely seven years of existence.  In March 1600, some of Sigismund's supporters were executed, including five senators, in an event known as the Linköping Bloodbath (Linköpings blodbad).

Aftermath 

Sigismund, who was allowed to return to Poland, did not relinquish his desire to regain the throne of Sweden. This attitude led to a series of Polish–Swedish wars, that culminated during the reign of his son, John II Casimir of Poland, with the giant Swedish invasion of Poland known as the Deluge.

Geography 

At the time of the union, the coastline of Poland stretched from Pomerania in the southwest to Pärnu in the northeast (modern-day Estonia). The Swedish coastline stretched from Brömsebro in the west, around the northern part of the Baltic, down to Pärnu. Thus the time of the Polish–Swedish union was unique in that the Baltic Sea effectively became an internal sea of this superstate.

See also 

 Lithuanian–Swedish union
 Polish–Lithuanian union
 Polish–Swedish War

References 

 
 

1590s in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth
1590s in Sweden
Personal unions
Poland–Sweden relations