[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Exterminator (roller coaster)

ve mysteriously gone missing and that a team of exterminators from a high-tech pest control company, Vermin Inc., were now being sent into the tunnels to kill the rats. The anchorman instructs the viewers to stay in their homes and only to evacuate if they feel tremors beneath the foundation.

Ride 

Entering the dimly-lit loading station, riders enter the four passenger rat-themed cars and are secured with a seatbelt and an overhead lap bar. The car is dispatched and passes by a large exhaust fan and a pair of large red eyes staring from a hole in the left wall. Continuing straight down a dark hallway, an animatronic Vermin Inc. exterminator dressed in a bright orange hazmat suit appears, aiming a poison gas gun at the riders. In the ride's early years, the exterminators would blast fog illuminated by green light, giving the riders the illusion of being sprayed with rat poison. The ride car makes a sharp turn to the left and begins to ascend the lift hill. Nearing the top of the hill, a spotlight reveals another exterminator animatronic standing on the left side of the track who calls for backup into his radio. 

The car crests the top of the hill and makes another sharp turn to the left into a straightaway where another exterminator waits at the end of the hall and tries to blast the riders as the car makes a U-turn. Making another U-turn, the car rolls toward a large electrical transformer, which the car swerves away from with another hairpin turn. After navigating one more hairpin, the car passes under a sign reading "DANGER-BOILER ROOM". The car then makes a sharp left into the ride's first drop into a large boiler room, passing by a giant furnace. 

The car rises again making two more left turns into its biggest drop. The car ascends into a double-up and encounters another exterminator animatronic as it takes a left turn into another hallway. At the end of the hall is a large mirror that gives the riders the illusion of colliding with another car. As the car makes another U-turn, the spin lock mechanism on the car disengages, allowing the car to spin freely. The car spins out of control through three hairpin turns in pitch darkness before emerging at the gates of the giant furnace. The car enters the furnace illuminated by bright red lights, completing a wide turn, before exiting the furnace into a sudden dip and a final "bunny hop" hill. The car turns left into the final brake run, slowing down the car and re-locking the spinning mechanism. Rolling into the loading station, the riders disembark and exit into a hallway and re-emerge onto the midway from the left side of the ride building.

References

External links 
Exterminator at Ultimate Roller Coaster
Exterminator at Kennywood.com
Exterminator fact sheet at Kennywood.com

Kennywood
Wild Mouse roller coasters
Roller coasters introduced in 1999
Spinning roller coasters
Sally Corporation animatronics
1999 establishments in Pennsylvania
Enclosed roller coasters