[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Asmaa Abdol-Hamid

gh she was not elected, she may still appear in the parliament as a substitute for Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. Pia Kjærsgaard, leader of the Danish People's Party, threatened that "we" would throw Asmaa out of the Folketing if she were to stand at the pulpit and open a speech with an invocation to God.

Views 
 Headscarf – "Wearing a headscarf does not mean that I’m oppressed or deprived. The values on which I live my life are Islamic and not Arab. It is important to make a distinction between religion and culture. In many respects, the Arab way of thinking discriminates against women; even though I am an Arab, I don’t make my choices on a cultural basis, but in the light of my religion."
 Integration – "I don’t like the word ‘integration’. Everyone uses the word without being able to make any clear-cut definition. Ethnic minorities are not a problem in themselves; when identifying reasons for the lack of integration in Denmark, I prefer to talk about social classes and look at people’s class background rather than their ethnic identity."
 War in Iraq – In July 2007, Asmaa Abdol-Hamid told tabloid newspaper B.T. that she supports the Iraqi resistance movement against the occupation forces and that "they have the right to live in a country where they can make their own decisions".  In a reaction to the controversy which her interview started, she maintains her support for the Iraqi resistance, and compares it to the Danish resistance movement against the German occupation during Second World War. She thinks resistance against a foreign occupation is not only legitimate but a human right.  In response to her remarks Naser Khader, a fellow Muslim Dane, stated that Abdol-Hamid spoke so much nonsense and contradicted herself so often that one "gets completely dizzy."  Khader pointed out that the Iraqi government had been freely elected by the Iraqi people and been recognized by the United Nations, concluding that Abdol-Hamid was "not to be taken seriously politically."
 Poverty – Abdol-Hamid, who herself shared a one room flat with her six sisters in the ghetto of Vollsmose, in the town of Odense, says her mission is to fight for the underclass, and the Danes in "deep poverty".

See also 
Red-Green Alliance

References 

1981 births
Danish people of Arab descent
Danish Muslims
Living people
Danish people of Palestinian descent
People associated with the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy
Islamic clothing controversy in Europe
Social Democrats (Denmark) politicians
Danish feminists
Danish socialists
21st-century Danish politicians
21st-century Danish women politicians