[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dlawer Ala'Aldeen

Dlawer Ala'Aldeen (; born 1960), is the Founding President of the Middle East Research Institute, a policy-research institute, based in Arbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq.  He is a former Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research in the Kurdistan Regional Government  (2009-2012) and former professor of Medicine (Clinical Microbiology & Infectious Disease) at the University of Nottingham in the UK. His current focus is on policy research in the fields of good governance, rule of law, national security, governance reform and promotion of human rights.

Background and career
Dlawer Ala'Aldeen was born in the town of Koya Koy Sanjaq, near Arbil (Erbil), in Iraqi Kurdistan.  His father (Abdul-Aziz) was a primary school teacher and author of several books published in Kurdish, including "The Life of Mohammad" and "Exegesis (Tafsir) of Quran".

Ala'Aldeen grew up in and around the city of Arbil, and studied medicine in Baghdad.  He immigrated to the [United Kingdom] in 1984 where he furthered his education and specialised in infectious diseases and clinical microbiology.  He studied tropical medicine at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and trained for PhD in molecular microbiology at the MRC Clinical Research Centre, Harrow-London, UK. He was awarded MRC Research Fellowship before being appointed as a clinical academic in the Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust in 1992 and Professor of clinical microbiology in 2002.  He founded the Meningococcal Research Group in 1995, which then expanded into the Molecular Bacteriology and Immunology Group at the University of Nottingham in 1999. He was also the Founding Director of the MSc course in Clinical Microbiology in Nottingham University  He was seconded to the Health Protection Agency (later renamed Public Health England and now UK Health Security Agency) as Deputy Director of the Centre for Infection in Colindale, London. Dlawer was a member of the MRC Infection and Immunity Board and the Specialist Advisory Committee of the Royal College of Pathologists for a number of years. He was appointed as the College's Director of Research in 2009.

On 28 October 2009, Ala'Aldeen was sworn in as the Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research in the 6th Cabinet of the Kurdistan Regional Government, Iraq. After cabinet change on 5 April 2012, he returned to his University position in Nottingham. He later founded a new policy-research institute (The Middle East Research Institute, MERI ) in Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq.

Lobbying for human rights
Ala'Aldeen has long lobbied for Kurdish people's human rights and campaigned for a global ban of chemical and biological weapons. His own parents and siblings were among the survivors of the chemical weapons used in Iraq.

He was active in the late 1980s and early 1990s, lobbying within the British Parliament, media, and government. With UK-based colleagues, he founded the Kurdish British Scientific and Medical Support Group (KBSMSG) in 1988, which later became the Kurdish Scientific and Medical Association in 1989. He was elected as the founding Secretary and later the Chairman of KSMA, before the organisation expanded into the Kurdistan Medical and Scientific Federation.  He was also an active member of the British academic group, The Working Party on Chemical and Biological weapons between 1988-96.

Ala'Aldeen met Mrs/ Margaret Thatcher, the former British Prime Minister, and Dr George Carey, the Archbishop of Canterbury, in April 1991 and persuaded them to put pressure on John Major (then British Prime Minister)  and George HW Bush (then President of the USA) to help end Saddam Hussein's attack on the Kurds.  This was in the aftermath of the second Gulf War, when almost two million displaced Kurds fled to the borders with Iran and Turkey.  As a consequence, a "no-fly zone, Safe Haven" was established north of 36th parallel north that lasted from April 1991 until the fall of Saddam regime. The Safe Haven allowed the Kurds in Iraq to return to their homes, elect their own Kurdistan Regional Government and Kurdistan Parliament.  Ala'Aldeen has published a book on Lobbying for a Stateless Nation; and investigated the use of chemical weapons in Kurdistan, and the poisoning of Kurdish refugees in Turkey (published in the Lancet, 1990 Feb 3;335, p. 287-8).

Minister of Higher Education & Scientific Research
Ala'Aldeen has long been involved in capacity building for Iraqi and Kurdistan Universities and establishing academic links with British universities. On 28 October 2009, he joined Dr Barham Salih's Cabinet of Kurdistan Regional Government as Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research.