[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Crime Records Bureau

d for integrating CCTNS (Police) with e-Courts, e-prisons, Forensics, Finger Print Bureaux and Prosecution, which are the key components of the Criminal Justice System. Implementation of ICJS will ensure quick data transfer among different pillars of criminal justice system.

Crime records matching 

The main objective of the Crime Records Branch is to collect, collate and disseminate information on Crime, Criminals, Persons and Property for matching purposes. The branch utilizes following software systems:
 VahanSamanvay - An online Motor Vehicle Coordination System for coordination of stolen and recovered motor vehicles across the country. Police, RTOs, and Insurance sector are main stakeholders. The general public is also benefited with this system.
 Talash Information System - This system is used to maintain and coordinate information on Missing, Traced, Unidentified persons and unidentified dead bodies.
 Fake Indian Currency Notes System (FICN) - It is an online system for compilation of fake Indian currency data. Police, Banks, Investigating agencies, other intelligence agencies and Ministries are stakeholders of this system.
 Fire Arms Coordination System - This system is used for coordination of missing/stolen and recovered firearms.
 Colour Portrait Building System - This system is used to create portraits of suspects based on the description given by victims and eyewitnesses.
 Since year 2011, 600 persons (live & dead) have been united with their families by matching photographs and other physical features.
 Since launch of online application "VahanSamanvay" in 2014 till date 14,14,055 data has been captured and 30,577 Stolen vehicles have been matched from different states.

Crime statistics 

NCRB brings out three annual reports i.e. Crime in India, Accidental Deaths & Suicides in India and Prison Statistics India. These reports are principal reference points for police officers, researchers, media & policy makers.

Besides, the Bureau is also collecting Crime Statistics and Anti-human Trafficking statistics on monthly basis. The complete software package of ‘Monthly Crime Statistics’ has been released in the month of December, 2016.

After extensive and exhaustive deliberation with various stakeholders, the proformae for Crime in India, Monthly Crime Statistics and Accidental Deaths & Suicides in India were revised in the year 2014.

NCRB has developed application software for Crime in India (CII), Monthly Crime Statistics (MCS), Accidental Deaths & Suicide in India (ADSI), Prison Statistics of India (PSI). The Bureau is also conducting Training of Trainers (ToT) on Crime in India and Accidental Death & Suicide in India and Prison Statistics India for officials of SCRBx and Prison Departments of States/UTs.

NCRB has been conferred with ‘Digital India Awards 2016’ in open data championship category with Silver on 9 December 2016 for updation of more than 3,000 datasets on Open Government Data (OGD) Platform India in open source format. NCRB has digitised ‘Crime in India’ since 1967 and Accidental Deaths & Suicides in India since 1998. The digitised data have been made available on national data portal https://data.gov.in.

Director, NCRB is designated as National Focal Point for United Nations Surveys on Crime Trends and the Operations of Criminal Justice Systems (UN-CTS). On the behalf of Government of India, NCRB is selected as Member to Technical Advisory Group (TAG) of International Classification of Crime for Statistical Purposes (ICCS).

Central finger print bureau 

The World's First Finger Print Bureau was set up in Calcutta in 1897. A CFPB was established at Shimla in 1905, however it was closed in 1922 as a result of retrenchment proposals of the Inchcape Committee. The Present CFPB came into existence in 1955 under the administrative control of Intelligence Bureau at Delhi. It was relocated to Calcutta (now Kolkata) in 1956. The administrative control of CFPB  shifted to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 1973, and since July, 1986, this has been under the administrative control of NCRB.