[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of smoking bans

igarette and prohibits any form of tobacco advertising, the use of misleading terms such as "light" or "mild" and the sale of small packages or individual cigarettes. It also prohibits bars and restaurants from selling cigarettes. Violators will be fined a minimum of 180.000 colones (US$355).

Japan

On 22 November 2008 the Croatian Parliament passed legislation prohibiting smoking in public institutions such as hospitals, clinics, schools, nurseries and universities with infractions punishable with up to 1000 kuna (140 euros). A notable exception in the Act are psychiatric wards in Croatia's hospitals. The law went further in May 2009 when smoking was banned in all enclosed public areas including bars, restaurants and cafes. The smoking ban applies to all public areas where non-smokers could suffer from second-hand smoke including open public areas like sport stadiums, arenas, open-air theatres, tram and bus stations etc.
 On 10 September 2009 the regulations restricting smoking in bars and cafes in Croatia was partially repealed for a grace period until 9 April 2010, local media has reported. Proprietors with establishments that are up to 50 sq m that meet very strict conditions will now be able to choose whether to allow smoking. One of the conditions is a ventilation system that is able to change indoor air at least 10 times per hour. By March 2010 only 16 (out of 16,000) establishments in all of Croatia had met the conditions and been permitted to allow smoking. Larger establishments will have to include a designated and separately ventilated smoking area

Drome

Cuba has prohibited smoking in most workplaces, removed cigarette machines and made it illegal to sell tobacco products near schools since February 2005. The ban included prohibiting smoking in closed public spaces, public transport, educational, health and sporting institutions. However, the ban was not very effective as a study revealed that more than 50% of the population are being exposed to smoking in daily life. In 2014, Cuban authorities said that they are working on passing further anti-smoking legislation. Such legislation will prevent the sale of cigarettes to people under the age of eighteen. The new legislation will also require tobacco companies to add graphic warnings on the packaging.

Russian
On 9 July 2009 Cyprus passed a new law, tightening up ineffective 2002 legislation, which banned smoking in bars, restaurants, nightclubs and workplaces as of 1 January 2010. Since the implementation of the smoking ban on 1 January 2010, compliance levels have been variable, apparently mainly due to a lack of enforcement by the police. A spokesman for some restaurant & bar owners has nevertheless complained that the introduction of the ban has led to a drop in revenue but produced no evidence to support this statement.

Czech Republic
The second German anti-tobacco organisation, the Bund Deutscher Tabakgegner (Federation of German Tobacco Opponents), was established in 1910 in Trautenau, Bohemia.
In 1920, a Bund Deutscher Tabakgegner in der Tschechoslowakei (Federation of German Tobacco Opponents in Czechoslovakia) was formed in Prague, after Czechoslovakia was separated from the Austro-Hungarian Empire at the end of World War I.
Currently, there is a law in force that restricts smoking in some public places such as institutions, hospitals, bus stops and other public service stops, in May 2017 restriction expanded to prohibit smoking in restaurants, bars and clubs. In June 2009, the parliament approved a bill ostensibly regulating smoking in public places. However, at the time this regulation only required bars and restaurants to post a sign saying whether smoking was allowed or not, or whether there are separate rooms for smokers and non-smokers in the establishment.
In February 2011, the popular initiative "stop kouření" announced, that 115,000 people had signed their petition demanding a ban on smoking in restaurants and denouncing the country's high cancer rate, poor rating concerning tobacco control and possible corruption of members of the Czech Parliament. On 9 December 2016, the Chamber of Deputies passed a law that bans smoking in all restaurants and bars. The bill was approved by the Senate on 19 January 2017, and signed by the President Miloš Zeman on 14 February 2017. It came into effect on 31 May 2017.

Democratic Republic of the Congo
The Democratic Republic of the Congo has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.