[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Krikor Zohrab

psychological. Descriptions of the human persona were one of his stronger points. Zohrab was able to accurately portray faces and gestures in a vivid way. In short, dense, but highly expressive lines, he was able to clearly illustrate a tragedy or a character's qualities.

Arrest and assassination 

During the mass arrests and execution that would signal the start of the Armenian Genocide in and around 24 April 1915, Zohrab was diligently working to try to stop the atrocities. As a member of Parliament, he tried to contact the Turkish authorities and to plea for the immediate cessation of the massacres. He even contacted his supposed friend Talaat Pasha to protest and asked for redress, but to no avail. On the 1 June 1915, he once more demanded explanations for the massacres inflicted on the Armenians in the eastern provinces  from both Talaat and the secretary general of the Committee for Union and Progress (CUP) Mithat Şükrü Bleda and mentioned that one day he would demand an explanation for these actions in the Ottoman Parliament. This would be the last time they would meet. Some integrants within his immediate circle strongly encouraged him to leave the country, but Zohrab refused. 

O the 2 June 1915, Zohrab was arrested by the Turks, Vartkes Serengülian, another deputy to the Ottoman Parliament, was arrested the same time. Ordered to appear before a court martial in Diyarbakır, they traveled together by train to Aleppo, escorted by one gendarme. They remained in Aleppo for a few weeks, waiting for the results of attempts by the Ottoman governor of the city to have them sent back to the capital. Some sources state that Cemal Pasha himself tried to secure their return, but Talaat Pasha insisted on having the pair court martialed. They were then dispatched to Urfa and remained there for some time in the house of a Turkish deputy friend. Later, they were taken under police escort and taken to Diyarbakır by car. They were murdered by the well-known band of brigands led by Cherkes Ahmet, Halil and Nazım, at a locality called Karaköprü or Şeytanderesi in the outskirts of Urfa, some time between 15 July and 20 July 1915. The murderers were tried and executed in Damascus by Cemal Pasha in September 1915, and the assassinations became the subject of a 1916 investigation by the Ottoman Parliament led by Artin Boshgezenian, the deputy for Aleppo.

Works 
Some of Zohrab's published writings are:
A Vanished Generation (Անհետացած սերունդ մը) is one of his works. Considered a great piece of realist writing.
Familiar Faces (Ծանօթ դէմքեր), a piece where he draws portraits of prominent figures of his time.
From the Journeyman's Diary (Ուղեւորի օրագրէն), a book about European travels and the impressions they left on him.

See also 
Armenian genocide
Deportation of Armenian intellectuals on 24 April 1915

References

External links

Short biography
La Question arménienne à la lumière des documents - National Library of France

Armenian-language writers
1861 births
1915 deaths
Politicians from the Ottoman Empire
People who died in the Armenian genocide
Armenians from the Ottoman Empire
Political people from the Ottoman Empire
Lawyers from the Ottoman Empire
Writers from Istanbul
Galatasaray High School alumni
Istanbul University Faculty of Law alumni
19th-century writers from the Ottoman Empire
20th-century writers from the Ottoman Empire
People from Beşiktaş