[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Torture chamber

an dictatorship led by Augusto Pinochet as well as other South American regimes. The isolation felt inside the Nazi torture chambers was so strong that author, and victim, K. Zetnik, during his testimony at the Eichmann trial in Jerusalem in 1961, has described them as another galaxy.

South America

In Chile, during the Pinochet dictatorship, the use of converted locker-rooms and skyboxes as torture chambers has been reported. The Esmeralda, a training ship of the Chilean Navy had also been used as a "floating torture chamber" during Pinochet's dictatorship. In 2011, protests erupted in Vancouver, Canada, upon a visit by the Esmeralda. In Santiago, Chile, Villa Grimaldi, once a cultural center, was used as a torture centre which included torture chambers. A tour of Villa Grimaldi has been described as a "tour of barbarity" featuring exhibits with descriptive signs such as "Place of hangings", "Torture chamber", "Annex torture chamber", "Women's cells 1x1 meter", "The Grill: Electric Beds" and others.

Michelle Bachelet, who later became President of Chile, was tortured in a torture chamber during the Pinochet years. After the fall of Pinochet, the torture chamber victims and the relatives of the desaparecidos refused to strike a deal with Pinochet or with the politicians that followed him.

Europe
Use of torture chambers was also reported in Europe during the Greek military junta years (1967–1974). Alexandros Panagoulis and Army Major Spyros Moustaklis are examples of people tortured at the EAT/ESA (Greek Military Police) interrogation cell units.

Middle East
Under his reign (1979–2003), Saddam Hussein reportedly tortured those whom he deemed as a threat.  After the invasion of Iraq by U.S. forces, pictures of dead Iraqis, with their necks slashed, their eyes gouged out and their genitals blackened, were located in many torture chambers. Jail cells, with dried blood on the floor and rusted shackles bolted to the walls, lined the corridors.

In November 2004, U.S. Marines found a number of torture rooms in Fallujah by following trails of dried blood, or the smell of dead bodies. Some rooms were hidden behind fake walls, or concealed in basements. 
Libyans have entered abandoned torture chambers and found devices that have been used against opposition members in the past.

United States

The CIA has been found to torture prisoners at black sites around the world.

Russia 
In April 2022, evidence of the brutal mass rape and massacre by Russian forces of the residents of the Ukrainian town of Bucha came to light. Soldiers of the Ukrainian Territorial Defense Forces said they had found eighteen mutilated bodies of men, women, and children in a summer camp's basement in Zabuchchya, near Bucha. Footage released by the Ukrainian army appeared to show a torture chamber in the basement. One of the soldiers said that some of the bodies had cut-off ears or pulled out teeth, and that the bodies had been removed a day before the interview. Corpses of other killed civilians were left in the road. An investigation by Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty verified that the basement was used as an "execution cellar" by Russian forces.

See also 

Black site
Extraordinary rendition
Iron maiden
Medieval instruments of torture
Palace of Inquisition
Psychology of torture
Psychological warfare
The Box (torture)

Books 

Guida Billingue all mostra di Strumenti di Tortura Chamber dal Medioeve all Epoca Industriale. By Roberto Held. Florence, Qua d' Arno 1983.
"The Iron Shroud" by William Mudford, a short story, published also as a chapbook, about an iron torture chamber which shrinks through mechanical action and eventually crushes the victim inside. Edgar Allan Poe is considered to have been influenced by Mudford's story when he wrote The Pit and the Pendulum.

References

External links 
Fort Breendonk (Nazi Camp): Pictorial essay. Mentions local torture chamber

Torture
Rooms