[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Armenians in Lebanon

ly less developed and rapidly multiplying Muslim elements has been bemoaned by the affected Armenians for a quarter of a century."

Media
"Pyunik" () was the first Armenian newspaper in Lebanon renamed Nor Pyunik (). In 1924, the newspaper Lipanan () was published. In 1927, Aztag replaced Nor Punik.

Press: Dailies
There are three Armenian daily newspapers published in Beirut all mouthpieces of the traditional Armenian political parties (Tashnag, Hunchag and Ramgavar). 
Aztag (), a daily newspaper that speaks on behalf of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation – Tashnag and was established in 1927. It also published an online English version and an online Arabic supplement. 
Ararad (), a daily newspaper published by the Social Democrat Hunchakian Party – Hunchag Party
Zartonk (), daily newspaper is published by Armenian Democratic Liberal Party – Ramgavar and was established in 1937.

From the defunct Armenian political newspapers besides Pyunik in the 1920s, one should mention the independent non-partisan newspaper Ayk () (after decades of publishing in Armenian, the licence owner Lucie Tosbat sold it to Monday Morning Publishing Group and Ayk started publishing as an English-language daily renamed Ike before folding.) Ayk daily's Lebanese-Armenian publishers Dikran and Lucie Tosbat also published the French language Le Soir.

Special mention should also be made for the Armenian leftist daily newspaper Joghovourti Tsayn ( meaning Voice of the People) which had a short span of publication but remained influential during its span of publication.

Press: Weekly publications and periodicals
Lebanon has a history of periodicals and weekly newspapers in the Armenian language. Notable long-running publications include:
Hask (Հասկ), official publication of the Catholicosate of the Great House of Cilicia (Armenian Apostolic)
Avedik (Աւետիք), official publication of the Armenian Catholic Church 
Yeridasart Hayouhi (Երիտասարդ Հայուհի, literary periodical dedicated to women) which was later turned into an independent political biweekly called Yeridasart Hay (Երիտասարդ Հայ).
Nor Gyank (Նոր Կեանք, meaning New Life) the lifestyle newspaper/magazine
Gantch (Կանչ), the Armenian Communist weekly (part of Arabic language communist "An Nidaa")
Khosnag (Խօսնակ), the Armenian General Benevolent Union (AGBU) official publication
Pakine (Բագին) literary cultural publication
Shirak (Շիրակ) literary cultural publication
Spurk (Սփիւռք meaning diaspora) literary and cultural publication
Nayiri (Նայիրի) literary and cultural publication
Massis (Մասիս), Armenian Catholic publication 
Badanegan Artsakank (Պատանեկան Արձագանք) Armenian Evangelical / Youth publication

Academic publications
Hasg Hayakidagan Hantes, an annual Armenological publication by the Holy See of Cilicia
Haigazian Armenological Review, an annual Armenological publication of Haigazian University

Radio
The Lebanese state radio established very early on daily radio broadcasts in Armenian through its second channel consecrated to broadcasting in languages (mainly French and English). That programming goes on to date on Radio Liban. During the civil war, the Lebanese Armenians established a great number of unlicensed radio stations (some non-stop for 24 hours a day). The pioneer was the popular radio station "Radio Paradise" and later on "Vana Tsayn" (Voice of Van). However, with the Lebanese Parliament enacting laws organizing the airwaves, all the unlicensed stations (alongside the other Lebanese stations) had to close. They were replaced by two operating and fully licensed radio stations operating in Armenian in Lebanon in accordance with the new broadcast laws – "Voice of Van" and "Radio Sevan".

Television
Lebanese private stations and state-owned Tele-Liban have consecrated occasionally television programming in Armenian on certain occasions. During the Lebanese civil war, an Armenian television station "Paradise Television" co-operated with "Radio Paradise" was established through a broadcast tower in Bourj Hammoud. But "Paradise Television" Armenian television station had to close after it failed to get a broadcasting licence according to the new laws organizing the airwaves. Al Mustaqbal Television (also known as Future Television) and OTV broadcast daily 30-minutes news and comments in Armenian in their regular programming schedule.

Religion
Officially, there are three Armenian denominations recognized by the government. The Armenians have Armenian Orthodox, Armenian Catholic, or Armenian Evangelical mentioned in their identity cards, in the denomination field. Sometimes, however, there are variations particularly in case of the Armenian Evangelicals, sometimes registered as just Evangelicals or Protestants without mention of Armenian. There are also some Armenian Catholics who are registered under the denomination Latin, sometimes Armenian Latin.

Apostolic (Orthodox) Armenians