[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# War in Dagestan (1999)

o their side after they launched the operation. The self-proclaimed Shura of Dagestan welcomed the "liberation" and declared an Islamic state, but proved to have relatively little authority.

Alleged agreement between Basayev and Russian authorities to start the war

Alleged conspiracy by Berezovsky

In September 1999, transcripts of a number of alleged phone conversations conducted by Boris Berezovsky with Movladi Udugov, Gaji Makhachev and other radical Chechens in June and July 1999 were published by Moskovskij Komsomolets newspaper. According to Paul Klebnikov, the newspaper speculated that the negotiations between Berezovsky and his Chechen interlocutors concerned the attack on Dagestan. However, in Klebnikov's view, there was nothing in the conversation to prove that, and it could well have been just a routine hostage negotiation.

According to Marina Litvinenko and Alexander Goldfarb, the transcript published in Moskovskij Komsomolets has been "partly true and partly a fabrication".

According to Boris Berezovsky, the war was planned for six months before the Dagestan events, over his objections. Berezovsky confirmed that Movladi Udugov came to see him, but denied that he conspired with Udugov. However, according to Berezovsky "Udugov and Basayev conspired with Stepashin and Putin to provoke a war to topple Maskhadov..., but the Chechen condition was for the Russian army to stop at the Terek River. Instead, Putin double-crossed the Chechens and started an all-out war."

Providing a safe passage

The invasion of Dagestan leading to the start of the Second Chechen War was regarded by the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya as a provocation initiated from Moscow to start war in Chechnya, because Russian forces provided safe passage for Islamic fighters back to Chechnya.

Alleged collusion between Voloshin and Basayev

There were allegations that Alexander Voloshin of the Boris Yeltsin administration paid money to Shamil Basayev to stage this military operation. In early August 1999, the investigative Russian journal Versiya published a report that the head of the Russian presidential administration, Alexander Voloshin, had met secretly with Shamil Basayev on July 4, 1999. The meeting was arranged by a retired officer of the GRU, Anton Surikov, and took place at a villa owned by the arms dealer Adnan Khashoggi between Nice and Monaco. Many of the participants of the meeting had fought on the same side during the Abkhazia-Georgia conflict during the early 1990s. According to Boris Kagarlitsky, those who arranged the meeting made one mistake; the security system blocked monitoring from the outside but provided perfect conditions for monitoring from the inside. French intelligence was able to listen in on everything that transpired.

Former foreign minister of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria Ilyas Akhmadov believed the article about Basayev and Voloshin meeting in Nice on July 4, 1999 wasn't based on fact, and Basayev hadn't actually been in Nice. According to Akhmadov, Basayev was portrayed in shorts while Chechen men, especially fighters, do not wear shorts. Additional reasons not to take the story seriously were that Basayev had been a participant of a rally in Grozny on July 3, 1999, and that Akhmadov didn't know an instance when Basayev left the North Caucasus in the years after the First Chechen War. According to a press report cited by Timur Muzayev from the International Institute of Humanities and Political Research, speakers at the rally in Grozny on July 3, 1999 included Aslan Maskhadov, Shamil Basayev, and Ruslan Gelayev; these men and others called for reconciliation and unity.

Allegations that Basayev was a GRU agent

Shamil Basayev allegedly worked for Russian GRU.

According to Ilyas Akhmadov, who worked for Basayev's 1997 election campaign and accepted a Foreign Minister position in Maskhadov's Government in 1999, allegations that Shamil Basayev was working for Russians should be viewed as an element of the political strife among Chechen leaders, as he criticized what he called "tangents about how Shamil was Russia's agent", noting that "Shamil equally strongly believed that Maskhadov's various calls for peace benefited only Russia".

See also
Assassination of Russia

References

External links

War in Dagestan - Jane's Europe News (October 1999)
ISN Case Study: The North Caucasus on the Brink (August 2006)

Chechen–Russian conflict
1999 in Russia
Conflicts in 1999
Guerrilla wars
History of Dagestan
Invasions of Russia
Dagestan
Dagestan
Al-Qaeda activities
August 1999 events in Russia
September 1999 events in Russia