[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System

The Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System (JWICS,  ) is the United States Department of Defense's secure intranet system that houses top secret and sensitive compartmented information. JWICS superseded the earlier DSNET2 and DSNET3, the Top Secret and SCI levels of the Defense Data Network based on ARPANET technology.

The system deals primarily with intelligence information and was one of the networks accessed by Chelsea Manning, in the leaking of sensitive footage and intelligence during the Afghanistan and Iraq wars to whistleblower organization WikiLeaks in 2010. The video used in WikiLeaks' Collateral Murder and US diplomatic cables were leaked by Manning. In 2023, it was also accessed by Jack Teixeira who leaked information about the war in Ukraine.

Because of the information it houses, JWICS is subject to discussion around cybersecurity and the United States' vulnerability to cyber threats.

Opinions surrounding the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication system are varied. Some emphasize its importance as a measure to protect intelligence that helps to ensure the safety of US military interests and personnel. Others scrutinize the system for standing in the way of the transparency and accountability of government.

JWICS in practice 
The Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System (JWICS) is a secure intranet system utilized by the United States Department of Defense to house "Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information" In day-to-day usage, the JWICS is used primarily by members of the Intelligence Community, such as the DIA within the DoD, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation under the Justice Department. Conversely, SIPRNet and NIPRNet account for the overwhelming bulk of usage within DoD and non-intelligence government agencies and departments.

There are three main router networks operated by the Department of Defense. Each is separated by the types of information they deal with.

At the most open level, the Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET) is the hub for non-classified but still specialized information relating to important logistics and planning.

Above this lies the Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET). SIPRNET deals with information classified as Confidential or Secret. SIPRNET is another of the networks accessed by Chelsea Manning (See Automation bias, #JWICS, WikiLeaks, and Chelsea Manning).

Finally, the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System houses the top level of data, consisting primarily of top-secret intelligence information. The system deals with transmissions coming from across the globe. The transmission of information across the JWICS network is summarized by Jeffrey R. Cares in the Encyclopedia of Cyber Warfare: See Joint All-Domain Command and Control

JWICS, WikiLeaks, and Chelsea Manning 
The vulnerability of secure networks such as JWICS to insider threats was revealed with the leak of hundreds of thousands of secret US intelligence documents, the largest in US history at the time. At the epicenter of these leaks was an intelligence analyst, Chelsea Manning. While serving in Iraq in 2010, Manning accessed JWICS, along with its lower-level counterpart SIPRNET, to leak documents to WikiLeaks, a non-profit platform for whistleblowers headed by Julian Assange. Manning was directly involved in the leaks known as "Collateral Murder," "The Iraqi War Logs," "The Afghan War Diary," and "Cablegate". Manning is allegedly responsible for the leaking of over 700,000 files. At the time this was the largest data leak in US military history. Manning was arrested in late 2010 after confiding in fellow hacker, Adrian Lamo, who reported Manning to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is believed that Manning's decision to supply the files to WikiLeaks began partly as a result of directly experiencing "war porn", graphic videos watched by analysts for entertainment. A notable video viewed by Manning that would later also capture public attention involved a US Apache helicopter firing on civilians. This video would be named "Collateral Murder." Manning was also uncomfortable with and perceived censorship of Iraqi citizens in their published opinions on government, and the "don't ask, don't tell" construct surrounding homosexuality in the US military. All of this information was contained in secure networks such as JWICS, causing their legitimacy as a form of a protection, rather than censorship, to be widely scrutinized in media and academic discourse.

Manning was sentenced in 2013 to 35 years at Fort Leavenworth. This sentence was commuted by the Obama administration for release after 7 years in 2017. Manning was again jailed after refusing to testify at the grand jury investigation against Wikileaks, and was released in March 2020.