[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# August 1976

killed in a fiery chemical explosion.  The blast at a hair curler factory also killed the wife of the owner and another woman.
Died: 
Jimmy Reed, 50, African-American blues musician and Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductee, died of respiratory failure.
Kazi Nazrul Islam, 77, Bengali musician and poet

August 30, 1976 (Monday)
Harold McCluskey, a 65-year-old chemical operations technician at the Hanford Plutonium Finishing Plant in the U.S. state of Washington, survived an accident in which he received the highest dose of radiation from radioactive americium ever recorded. He became known as the 'Atomic Man'. McCluskey was exposed to at least 37 million becquerel (Bq) of americium-241 radioactivity, 500 times the occupational standard for the plutonium byproduct, in an explosion at the Hanford plant.  Despite having americium-241 in his bone marrow, bones and soft tissue (reduced by his decontamination treatment), McCluskey never developed cancer and would live until dying in 1987 of coronary artery disease.)
India's Prime Minister Indira Gandhi introduced a 20-page bill to rewrite the Indian Constitution to strengthen her emergency powers.
James Alexander George Smith McCartney was sworn in as the first Chief Minister of the Turks and Caicos Islands.
Members of the Tweede Kamer, the lower house of the Netherlands' parliament (the Staten-Generaal), overwhelmingly rejected a motion to criminally prosecute Prince Bernhard, the husband of Queen Juliana, for suspected receipt of bribes.  Only 2 members, both from the Pacifist Socialist Party, voted in favor of the motion after making it and seconding it, while the other 148 present voted against.
Born: 
Cristian Gonzáles, Uruguayan soccer football striker who became a star for the Indonesian national team at the age of 27; in Montevideo
Lillo Brancato, Colombian-born American film actor who was later convicted of first-degree burglary in Bogotá

August 31, 1976 (Tuesday)
The value of the Mexican peso was devalued as the government of Mexico announced that it would abandon its policy since 1954 of an exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per one United States dollar.  The change was announced by Finance Minister Mario Ramón Beteta.
The popular situation comedy Alice premiered on CBS for the first of nine seasons.  Based on the 1974 film Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore, the TV version starred actress and singer Linda Lavin in the title role as a widow and single mother who makes a new start as a waitress and "Mel's Diner", a roadside diner in Phoenix, Arizona.
Born: 
Guinness Pakru (stage name for Ajay Kumar), diminutive (at ) Indian comedian, known for being the smallest film actor in history and as star of the Malayalam language film Athbhutha Dweepu; in Kollam, Kerala state 
Roque Junior (José Vítor Roque Jr.), Brazilian soccer football defender and national team member; in Santa Rita do Sapucaí, Minas Gerais
William McDowell, American gospel music and contemporary Christian music singer and songwriter; in Cincinnati
Died: Buell Kazee, 76, American folk music and Country music singer

References

1976
1976-08
1976-08