[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Castellgalí

th's house). The old quarter was born around the royal road, the inn and the church. When the constitution of 1812 eliminated feudal duties, its last feudal lords were the Amigants, Marquises of Fonollar. The Despujol, Marquises of Palmerola, were the last noble family to buy the Amigant properties.

Contemporary age 
The convulsive 19th century also marked Castellgalí, from the war of independence through the three Carlist wars, but it was also the century when the new cemetery was created (1892), the church was expanded (1897), the railway arrived (1859) and so did a telegraph antenna (1887). In this period of change and conflict, when manorial rights were extinguished, the last Spanish colonies were lost and constant wars ravaged the country, Castellgalí was considered a safe place, a refuge for the troops. It was a place of refuge for the  against the French, Carlist and Liberal troops, and was a place of passage for all of them. In this century, the first factories were set up (1816 Barrera textile mill, 1860 Cots, 1896 Sant Jaume and 1898 Carbons Elèctrics) that would shape the Castellgalí of the 20th century.

The industrialisation of Castellgalí, which began in the 19th century, meant that the population grew until the end of the 1970s, except during the years of the Civil War. This conflict ravaged the population, and was felt in the loss of movable heritage, mainly ecclesiastical, such as the destruction of the 17th century altarpieces of the church of San Miguel and Santa Margarita, the silver urns from the same century, with the mortal remains of Saint Honestus and San Repelión or the destruction of the figure of San Miguel.

The population decreased until the mid-1990s, when the population began to grow to its present-day levels. It is also worth mentioning the birth of the residential area of Mas Planoi, in four zones. An area of single-family houses took its name from the farmhouse that has been there since at least the 15th century. At present, it continues to expand with the recent urbanisation of Ca l'Enric de Calafell in 2022.

Places of interest

The confluence of the Cardener and Lobregat rivers 
The place where the waters of the Cardener and Llobregat rivers meet at a large river area where riverside vegetation, especially poplars, grows majestically. The relative tranquillity of the place makes bird-watching possible in both of the migration seasons and in the wintering and nesting periods. In the cold months, some migrating ducks such as the common shoveler or the grunting duck can be found there, but it is easier to see the great cormorant. Grey herons and kingfishers can be found all year round.

Boades archaeological site and  Torre del Breny 
Salvador Ginesta tells us about the origin of the name: “the place was once full of stones and weeds, which is the meaning of breny. Although in the speech of the Gauls, the word was equivalent to ringleader or a mountain. The monument was so named because of its location at the foot of a hill and because it was the tomb of a famous warlord”. 

Also known as the Tower of the Demons, Torre del Breny was mutilated in the Middle Ages when a farmhouse was built next to it: a door was opened, a window was opened and holes were made for the beams. It is a tomb in the form of a tower, whose base is still preserved today. It is of solid construction with its sides oriented to the four cardinal points. On the outside and at the top its mouldings and details are quite deteriorated. Inside two rectangular chambers are covered by two barrel vaults. The apparatus is quite regular, made up of large, well-cut ashlars of grey sandstone, dry-jointed and elongated in shape. 

From drawings made by Laborde before its destruction, we can get an idea of what it originally looked like. It had a base (conditiorium) measuring 10x10.5 m, 3 m high; externally it had mouldings and other details as decorative elements; internally it was divided into two rooms and covered with a barrel vault. Above the base was the cell, which was probably also covered with a barrel vault. The upper part was surmounted by an ornamental frieze, above which was a cornice on which the slopes of the roof rested. The frieze was decorated with sculptural reliefs: a lion on either side of a nude female figure. On the other hand, E. Hübner and J. Gudi found a graffiti or inscription engraved on an ashlar that Marc Mayer believes must read: V VILGELMO QUE, which could date from the 10th-11th centuries and could correspond to a certain Wilgemus. Different researchers think that it would refer to the owner of the area where the building was located, but after the construction of the building.