[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ronald Mourad Cohen

relieve poverty through entrepreneurship in Israel. Portland Trust is involved in a number of important initiatives, including the development of financial and economic infrastructure, housing, trade, investment, and entrepreneurship. The Portland Trust has offices in London, Tel Aviv and Ramallah.

In 2005, Cohen chaired the Commission on Unclaimed Assets. which looked into how unclaimed funds from dormant bank accounts could be used to benefit the public. The final recommendation of the Commission was that a Social Investment Wholesale Bank be created to help finance charitable and voluntary projects by providing seed capital and loan guarantees.

In 2007 he co-founded and became a non-executive director of Social Finance UK, a London-based advisory organisation that has worked to create a social investment market in the UK. The organisation provides access to capital, designs social finance interventions and offers advice to investors and social sector entities interested in delivering significant social impact. It has developed the social impact bond which is a financial instrument that is an outcomes-based contract in which public sector commissioners commit to pay for significant improvement in social outcomes for a defined population. Social Finance set up a pilot social impact bond with the Ministry of Justice (MoJ) in September 2010 to reduce re-offending amongst male prisoners leaving HMP Peterborough who have served a sentence of less than 12 months. During the Peterborough Prison pilot, experienced social sector organisations, such as St. Giles Trust and the Ormiston Children and Families Trust, provided intensive support to 3,000 short-term prisoners over a six-year period, both inside prison and after release, to help them resettle into the community. In July 2017, the success of the Peterborough Social Impact Bond was announced. The results showed reoffending of short-sentenced offenders reduced by 9% overall compared to a national control group. This exceeded the target of 7.5% set by the Ministry of Justice. As a result, the 17 investors in the Peterborough Social Impact Bond receive a single payment representing their initial capital plus an amount that will represent a return of just over 3% per annum for the period of investment. Cohen is also a member of the board of directors for Social Finance UK's sister organisation in the United States, Social Finance US.

In 2010, Cohen chaired a review of the work of the SITF in 2010 and published a report titled Social Investment: Ten Years On which assess the changes that had happened over the last decade in the area of social investment. The report found that there are three specific initiatives that will help define the future of the social investment market in the UK: (1) establishing the infrastructure necessary to create a dynamic market in social investment through initiatives such as the Social Investment Bank; (2) creating new tools to deliver social change through financial instruments such as the social impact bond; (3) engaging the financial sector to invest in disadvantaged areas through the Community Reinvestment Act.

Big Society Capital

Since its official launch in July 2011, Sir Ronald Cohen has been the Chairman of Big Society Capital, Britain's first social investment bank. The role of the BSC is to help speed up the growth of the social investment market, so that socially orientated financial organisations will have greater access to affordable capital, using an estimated £400million in unclaimed assets left dormant in bank accounts for over 15 years and £200million from the UK's largest high street banks. Its first £1 million investment from dormant accounts has gone to the Private Equity Foundation, an organisation whose mission it is to support disadvantaged young people into employment, education or training.

Charity
In January 2005, Cohen was appointed a trustee of the British Museum.
Cohen is a member of the executive committee of the International Institute of Strategic Studies.

Controversies
Cohen was chairman of Apax at the time of the Apax-owned British United Shoe Machinery pension collapse in 2000 which left 544 workers, many of them long service, without any pension. Collapse followed demerger from USM-Texon and asset transfer between the companies. Pension funds were transferred to the new BUSM scheme two weeks before receivership, and 4 days before a new revaluation was due.
MPs Edward Garnier, Patricia Hewitt and Ashok Kumar all called for a proper enquiry, Garnier citing the "mysterious circumstances" under which the pensions "disappeared", whilst Hewitt said "it is clearly important that such serious allegations are properly investigated." No new investigation took place, leading Kumar to say "I think these people need flogging. I feel so angry on behalf of decent upright citizens robbed of their basic human rights. ... These are greedy, selfish capitalists who live on the backs of others."