[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Economic Partnership Agreements

nt on to sign this agreement in July 2009. Angola (the other LDC in the SADC EPA configuration) has chosen to continue trading under EBA as their main exports to the EU are oil and diamonds which as 'wholly obtained' originating products enjoy duty and quota free entry under the EBA rules of origin.

Predicted impact
Researchers at the Overseas Development Institute predict the impact of the EPAs, however, to be rather minimal. Because most African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group states already enjoyed duty and tariff free access of about €1.4 billion from the Cotonou Agreement that expired in 2007, there was little new that could be offered. The expected impact described by the ODI:
 The transfer of the import tax levied by the EU (€12.7 million in 2006) to parts of the ACP export supply chain, making exports more profitable.
 Accrued revenue transfer could induce ACP members to increase levels of trade between each other and increase their supply of competitive products without substantial new investment.
 Removing tariff barriers may make it economically feasible to export additional products to the EU that are already exported to other markets.
 The most significant, but not necessarily most likely effect, is that there could be increases in foreign exchange earning and positive effects for the rest of the economy.

See also

 Free trade area
 List of free trade agreements
 List of bilateral free trade agreements
ACP-EU Development Cooperation
Cotonou Agreement
Lomé Convention
ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly
 The Courier (ACP-EU) - The magazine of Africa-Caribbean-Pacific and European Union cooperation and relations
 Common Agricultural Policy - agricultural policy of the European Union

References

Further reading
Bilal, S; Rampa, F. (2006). Alternative (to) EPAs. Possible scenarios for the future ACP trade relations with the EU (ECDPM Policy Management Report 11). Maastricht: ECDPM. Retrieved June 9, 2006, from www.ecdpm.org
ECDPM. 2002. Cotonou Infokit. Maastricht: ECDPM. Retrieved June 8, 2006 from www.ecdpm.org
Giesbert, L; Pfeiffer, B.; Schotte, S (2016): Economic Partnership Agreements with the EU: Trade-Offs for Africa. GIGA Focus Africa 7–2016, retrieved 21 December 2016 from www.giga-hamburg.de.
Gillson, I; Grimm, S. (2004). European development cooperation to 2010. EU trade partnerships with developing countries. London: Overseas Development Institute. Retrieved June 10, 2006, from www.odi.org.uk
Jessop, David. Understanding the EPA: cultural services. The possibilities for CARIFORUM regarding the agreement involving culture under the EPA. Understanding the EPA: cultural services (in English), Retrieved on 15 December 2008.
Jessop, David. Governing the EPA (2008-10-12). "Governing the EPA" (in English), The Jamaica Gleaner Newspaper. Retrieved on 15 December 2008.
Stevens, C; Kennan, J. (2005). EU-ACP Economic Partnership Agreements: the effects of reciprocity. Sussex: Institute of Development Studies Retrieved on June 19, 2006, from www.thecommonwealth.org
TY. Think twice about EPA, says Marshall (2008-04-23). "Think twice about EPA, says Marshall" (in English), The Barbados Daily Nation Newspaper. Retrieved on 16 November 2013.

External links
Slamming the Door on Development: Analysis of the EU’s response to the Pacific’s EPA negotiating proposals
European Centre for Development Policy Management
Partnership under Pressure - an assessment of the EU's conduct in the EPA negotiations
ACP-EU trade website
Agritrade policy analysis of ACP-EU trade issues
EU déjà vu in the Caribbean
"Everything But Arms" Regulation
Euforic makes information on Europe's development cooperation more accessible
Economic Partnership Agreements briefing from Transnational Institute
Deal on Economic Partnership Agreements expected at ACP-EU talks EUX.TV
The European Union's Agreements with the Group of African, Caribbean and Pacific countries

Treaties entered into by the European Union
Foreign relations of the Caribbean
Trade blocs
Proposed treaties
Organisation of African, Caribbean and Pacific States