[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Central Bank of Azerbaijan

ommodity turnover.
 
The Baku Branch on the USSR State Bank was established in 1923. Under the Constitution of the USSR, adopted in December 1936, Azerbaijan became a part of the USSR as a ‘sovereign’ republic. The Azerbaijani Office of the USSR State Bank operated from that year to the end of 1991.

Article 14 titled "The Banking system and money circulation" of the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan "On Grounds for Economic Independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan" dated 25 May 1991, stipulated the legal basis for the independent banking system and circulation of the national currency in Azerbaijan, and determined the status and authorities of the National Bank. The National Bank was declared a supreme emission agency, that pursued the state policy in lending, money circulation, settlements and foreign exchange relations, regulating the overall performance of the banking system and discharging reserve bank functions.
 
A National Bank was established in the Republic of Azerbaijan by Decree of President of the Republic of Azerbaijan on ‘Establishment of the National Bank in the Republic of Azerbaijan’ dated 11 February 1992. The effective date of the Decree (12 February) is celebrated as the day of establishment of the Bank.
 
The first law regulating activities of the National Bank – the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan was adopted on 7 August 1992 and the Resolution on Approval of the Charter of the National Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan was passed by the Milli Mejlis (National Parliament) of the Republic of Azerbaijan on 1 December 1992.
 
The national currency of the Republic of Azerbaijan – the Azerbaijani manat was issued into circulation on 15 August 1992 and was announced the only legal tender from 1 January 1994 onward. According to Para II, Article 19 of the first Constitution of the independent Republic of Azerbaijan, adopted by the 12 November 1995 referendum, the National Bank enjoys the exceptional right of issue of monetary units into and withdrawal from circulation.
 
Currently, the Central Bank is guided by the third generation banking laws (second edition of the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the National Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan was adopted on 14 June 1996, and third edition on 10 December 2004).
 
According to Decree of President of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Changes to the Nominal Value of Monetary Units and the Scale of Prices (Denomination) in the Republic of Azerbaijan dated 7 February 2005, a new Manat (AZN) was issued into circulation on 1 January 2006 – 1 new Manat was equal to 5,000 old Manats (AZM). AZM remained in parallel circulation with AZN in 2006 and only on 1 January 2007 the country started to use the new Manat.

Discharge of the country’s central bank functions stipulated review of the bank’s name and it was renamed ‘the Central Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan’ with the enforcement of the Referendum Act of the Republic of Azerbaijan on ‘Making Additions and Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan’ dated 18 March 2009.

According to the amendments to the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan “On the Central Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan” adopted on 4 March 2016, the authority to license, regulate and supervise banks were assigned to a newly established regulating body. Since then the Central Bank has focused on the monetary and exchange rate policy, safeguarding macroeconomic and financial stability, regulation and development of centralized interbank and other licensed payment systems and organization of cash circulation. According to the Order of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan “On improving management of the regulation and supervision of financial services market” issued on November 28, 2019, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority was liquidated. The authorities of the financial market supervisor stipulated by the applicable law, including rights and responsibilities in the areas of licensing of financial market services, regulation and supervision, protection of rights of investors and consumers of financial services, as well as FIMSA’s property were handed over to the Central Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan.

Goals and functions 
The main goal of the Central Bank is to maintain price stability within its authorities set by the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan “On the Central Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan” dated 10 December 2004.

The goals of the Central Bank are also to organize and ensure operations of centralized interbank and other unlicensed payment systems, as well as support the stability of the banking system. Profit-making is not the main goal of the Central Bank.