[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Charlie Adam

after talks with manager Nathan Jones, Adam left Stoke at the end of the season.

Adam met with Blackpool's new owner Simon Sadler about possibly rejoining the club and hopefully finishing his career there. "But, out of the blue, I got an opportunity to go and play for Reading in the Championship."

In 2021, it was revealed that Adams had been nicknamed Parched by his teammates. This was not known to Adams at the time, and stemmed from a mistaken belief by his teammates that he was ingratiating with management when there was drinks break during training. The nickname came to prominence after being discussed by Peter Crouch on his podcast, That Peter Crouch Podcast.

Reading
On 22 July 2019, Adam joined Reading, signing a one-year contract. He scored his first goal for Reading from the penalty spot in a 3–0 victory over Derby County at the Madejski Stadium on 21 December 2019. Adam was released by Reading at the end of the season.

Dundee and retirement
On 15 September 2020, after training on his own and having considered an offer to play in Australia, Adam joined his boyhood club Dundee on a two-year deal, which he described as being a "dream" of his. In an interview with FourFourTwo, Adam stated he believed Dundee would be his final club, due to his age and happiness at Dens Park.

Adam made his debut for Dundee in a Scottish League Cup tie against Brora Rangers on 10 October 2020. His first goal followed in his first league game in a defeat to Hearts. After a successful start to his time with the Dee, during which he was made captain, Adam was awarded the SPFL's Championship Player of the Month for December. At the end of the season, Adam was named to PFA Scotland's Championship Team of the Year for 2020–21, as well as being shortlisted as a finalist for their Championship Player of the Year. Adam would captain the club to winning the Premiership play-offs and helping Dundee to a return to the Scottish Premiership. Afterwards, Adam described this achievement as the highlight of his career, stating: "This is the best. I've dreamed of playing for my boyhood club in the top division and we've managed to get there." Adam would also be included in the SPFL's Championship Team of the Season, and would be named the Championship Player of the Year.

Adam sustained a groin injury in a Premiership match against Motherwell in August 2021, and despite avoiding surgery he was ruled out for six weeks. He would make his return in October and be nominated Man of the Match in a home win over Aberdeen. Adam's final few months of the season would feature various highs and lows, with a dive against St Johnstone and an unfortunate "assist" for St Mirren both going viral along with the club being relegated, but also scoring impressive goals against Dundee United and in the club's final home game of the season against Hibernian, with the Dundee derby goal winning Dundee's Goal of the Season. Adam left Dundee following the end of his contract in May 2022.

On 21 September 2022, Adam officially announced his retirement from professional football at the age of 36.

International career
Adam was called up by national manager Alex McLeish to the Scotland squad for the first time on 11 May 2007 for a friendly against Austria and a Euro 2008 qualifying Group B match against the Faroe Islands. He made his debut at the Gerhard Hanappi Stadium in Vienna on 30 May as a 67th-minute substitute, in a 1–0 victory. He then made his competitive debut as a 77th-minute substitute in a 2–0 win over the Faroe Islands at the Svangaskarð stadium in Toftir on 6 June.

Adam was recalled to the Scotland squad by manager George Burley for a friendly against Japan on 10 October 2009 at the Nissan Stadium, Yokohama, Japan. On 10 November 2009, Adam was drafted into the Scotland squad for the friendly against Wales four days later.

He replaced his former Rangers teammate Kevin Thomson, who pulled out due to illness. George Burley said of Adam: "He scored a cracking goal for Blackpool last weekend. He is a very good replacement. He has been playing consistently, is a quality player, and is getting a real benefit from playing regularly."

Personal life
Adam is the son of former professional player Charlie Adam, a midfielder who played for various Scottish clubs in the 1980s and 1990s. His father died on 17 December 2012, aged 50; the cause of death was publicly revealed as suicide in 2015. Adam's mother, Eleanor, fell ill with cancer, and was a big factor in his move back to Scotland. She died in December 2020. Adam's brother, Grant, is a goalkeeper who is currently playing for fellow Dundee-based side Lochee United. He has four other siblings: brothers Gary, Connor and Grant, and sister Nicola.

Adam grew up supporting Dundee. He attended Dundee's Braeview Academy, alongside fellow future footballers Garry Kenneth and Scott Robertson (the latter of which he would be reunited with at Dundee).