[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Steve Chalke

as well as hosting a regular show on BBC Radio 4 about community development, Changing Places. He currently contributes across the media as a social, religious and political commentator as well as being a regular presenter of Pause for Thought on BBC Radio 2 and 'Prayer For The Day' on BBC Radio 4.

Guinness World Record holder
In 2005 Chalke became the holder of the Guinness World Record for the largest amount of sponsorship money ever raised by an individual through a single event. He broke this record by raising £1.25 million for Oasis' work with schools in disadvantaged communities, through running the London Marathon. His record was beaten at the following year's marathon by Sir Steve Redgrave who raised over £1.785 million. In April 2007 Chalke recaptured the title as well as becoming the fastest money-generating sports person in history, by raising over £1.855 million in 3 hours 58 minutes 40 seconds. When he crossed the finishing line at the 2011 London Marathon, after 4 hours 31 minutes, Chalke broke this record for a third time by raising £2.32 million.

Views and activism 
Chalke has taken on many causes in his career, from working with vulnerable children on the African continent, to community learning through his Oasis Academies, to championing LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) and BAME (black, Asian and minority ethnic) rights to helping churches to realize their potential for helping people in their communities with such issues as poverty and homelessness, to stopping human trafficking, and a myriad of other things.

Faithworks
In 2001 Chalke founded The Faithworks Movement, along with a companion magazine, to raise awareness of the role the Church can play within local communities. Faithworks's resources support churches of all denominations across the UK. Chalke has become a spokesman for the church in the national debate about the provision of public services by faith-based groups. Over 20,000 members—including individuals, churches and other not-for-profit organizations—count themselves as part of the Faithworks movement.

Stop the Traffik
In 2005 Chalke founded Stop the Traffik, a global coalition which works to raise awareness of human trafficking in all countries and communities and to stop the buying and selling of people.

In 2008 he was appointed Special Advisor on Community Action to the United Nations Global Initiative to Fight Human Trafficking (UN.GIFT), following the coalition's delivery of 1.5 million signatures in support of a global declaration against human trafficking at a UN conference in Vienna in February of that year. He held this position until 2015.

Initially STOP THE TRAFFIK was set up as a two-year campaign to coincide with the bicentenary of the Abolition of the Slave Trade Act 1807. The campaign intended to:

Educate: create awareness and understanding of people trafficking.
Advocate: engage with those who have the power to minimise the trafficking of people.
Fundraise: Financing anti-trafficking work around the world working with those vulnerable to and those who have been trafficked.

March 2009 saw the publication of Stop The Traffick: People should not be Bought and Sold, co-authored by Chalke and Cherie Blair, which looks worldwide at the issue and responses to it.

More recently Stop the Traffik has developed a series of close partnerships with technology leaders and intelligence specialists. Its Centre for Intelligence-Led Prevention collects and analyses data on human trafficking patterns from across the globe. Global campaigns informed by local partnerships feed this intelligence directly into vulnerable communities, enabling resilience building and community transformation. This builds systemic disruption of human trafficking networks. This intelligence informs business and consumer communities about how and where modern slavery is present in global supply chains. This is used to empower consumer communities to change their buying habits and equipping business communities to identify and prevent vulnerability to human trafficking.

Across the UK, Stop the Traffik has also built Modern Slavery hubs through the work of dedicated volunteers. These hubs empower communities of law enforcement, government agencies, local authorities and NGOs to build resilience through coordination at a strategic and tactical level. Embedded Modern Slavery Coordinators enable resilience building by developing bridges between the hubs and vulnerable local communities. It aims to empower front line professional communities to inform this resilience through commissioned education and awareness raising sessions.

The meaning of the cross