[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# LGBT rights in Belgium

er found that 77% of Belgians thought that same-sex marriage should be allowed throughout Europe, 20% were against.

The 2019 Eurobarometer showed that 84% of Belgians believed gay and bisexual people should enjoy the same rights as heterosexual people, and 82% supported same-sex marriage.

Politics

LGBT rights are supported by the main political parties. When voting on the same-sex marriage bill, the Flemish Liberals and Democrats (VLD), the Christian People's Party (CVP/CD&V), the Socialist Party (PS), the Socialist Party Differently (sp.a), Ecolo, Agalev and the People's Union voted generally in favour except for several abstentions, whereas the Flemish Block and the National Front voted against, the Christian Social Party (CSP/cdH) voted against with several abstentions and the Reformist Movement (MR) voted dividedly. The right-wing Flemish Interest (Vlaams Belang, formerly Flemish Block) was opposed to same-sex marriage and LGBT rights more broadly, but has softened its stance in recent years. In 2015, party leader Tom Van Grieken said the party would not campaign to repeal same-sex marriage. Member of the Flemish Parliament Filip Dewinter told the newspaper De Standaard in 2014 that the party would now approve of same-sex marriage.

Several politicians are openly gay, two notable examples being the former Prime Minister of Belgium, Elio Di Rupo (PS) and the former Flemish Minister for Education (in the Peeters II Government), Pascal Smet (Vooruit). LGBT members of the Flemish Parliament include, among others, Piet De Bruyn (N-VA), Lorin Parys (N-VA) and Wellen Mayor Els Robeyns (sp.a).

On 2 April 2014, the Flemish Parliament approved 96–0 (with 15 abstentions) a resolution introduced by MP Piet De Bruyn (N-VA) and supported by all political parties except Flemish Interest, calling for the government to take measures to support and advance the acceptance of transgender people in society.

In the 2014 European Parliament election, UZ Gent gynaecologist Petra De Sutter was second on the list of Green candidates, marking it the first time a Belgian transgender person was a candidate for the EU Parliament. De Sutter has served as a member of the Belgian Senate since June 2014, and joined the European Parliament for the European Green Party after the 2019 elections. She left the European Parliament in 2020, and was sworn in as Minister of Civil Service in October of that year.

Following the 2014 European Parliament elections, the New Flemish Alliance (N-VA) was criticized for joining the European Conservatives and Reformists parliamentary group, which contains several right-wing homophobic parties. However, N-VA asserted they would vote in favour of LGBT rights, and argued that this was an opportunity to change opinions of other parties in that group.

In 2019, Dominiek Spinnewyn-Sneppe, newly-elected federal member of Parliament and member of Flemish Interest, was quoted in an interview as criticizing same-sex marriage and adoption by same-sex couples. After public outcry, party chairman Tom Van Grieken condemned her words, claiming they did not reflect his own opinion or that of the party. While he defended her right to free speech, he claimed that Flemish Interest will not seek to reverse any acquired rights of the LGBT community.

Media
Homosexuality is widely accepted in the media. Popular TV series such as Thuis, Skam Belgique and wtFOCK (the last two being adaptations of the Norwegian series Skam) feature gay characters.

The first TV personality to publicly come out as gay was singer Will Ferdy (nl) in 1970, when the topic was still taboo.

In 2018, journalist Bo Van Spilbeeck (nl) came out as transgender. This received widespread media coverage.

LGBT rights movement in Belgium

Belgian gay rights activists are grouped into several organisations; Çavaria, and Wel Jong Niet Hetero (Dutch for "Young But Not Straight"), two Dutch-speaking organisations in the Flemish and Brussels regions, and the Federation des Associations Gayes et Lesbiennes in the French-speaking Walloon and Brussels regions.

Belgian gay rights activism is made most visible by means of pride parade demonstrations. Marches have been held annually in Belgium's capital Brussels since 1996, with similar events having been held intermittently in preceding years in both Brussels and other cities. While the marches have a festive character, they are also used to present the gay movement's political agenda in the form of a list of demands. The list has been updated a number of times and has included demands for anti-discrimination laws, inclusion of gay relationships in high school sex education and the right to adoption by same-sex parents.