[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Creed Meredith

t known Irish judge to make an appeal to the ancient Irish law system. However, Laurence Ginnell and others in the judiciary who supported this initiative of reviving aspects of Brehon Law took the losing anti-Treaty side during the subsequent Civil War (1922–23), and so the project came to nothing.

Following the Anglo-Irish Treaty, the civil war and the collapse of the Republic, the newly established Irish Free State did not abandon Meredith's talents. He was appointed Chief Judicial Commissioner of Ireland on 14 August 1923, served on the High Court from 1924 to 1937, and then on the Supreme Court of Ireland until his death. He was elected to the Senate of the National University of Ireland, a position he also held until his death. In 1934 he was asked by the League of Nations to oversee the Saar valley plebiscite on the French/German frontier, and in 1937 he returned to the Supreme Court of Ireland.

Mrs Lorraine Creed Meredith

In 1908, at St. George's Church, Montreal, Meredith married Lorraine Seymour Percy, the daughter of Charles Percy (1852–1918) of Weredale Park, Montreal, 'one of the great railway geniuses of his era', and a niece of Arthur Trefusis Heneage Williams. Mr Percy was "a great family man, devoted to cultivated society and an admirier of fine arts, particularly music, and a lover of nature and his family fireside." Percy had come from England to Canada in 1876 at the bequest of the Chicago and Grand Trunk Railway Company to be their treasurer, later becoming a director of the Central Vermont Railway.

Lorraine's mother, Annie Redmond Meredith (1849–1930), was a daughter of Henry Howard Meredith (1815–1892) of Rosebank House, Port Hope, Ontario. She was a first cousin of James Creed Meredith's mother, and a niece of the already mentioned Edmund Allen Meredith and William Collis Meredith. Mrs Annie (Meredith) Percy was a talented artist and "a woman of rare culture and charm, artistic in taste, and noted for her charitable works and activities associated with the Church of England, of which she was a communicant since childhood".

Lorraine Meredith was herself a great patron of various Irish artists and poets. She was particularly close to the painter Grace Henry, the wife of the better known Paul Henry. Grace Henry's biographer described the two women as "slightly silly and full of fun". The two often travelled and painted together, and when Mrs Henry died in 1953, it was Mrs Meredith – then living in Cyprus – who paid for her funeral. Mrs Meredith kept close ties with her Canadian relations and frequently took her two daughters (Moira and Brenda) to stay with them, particularly at the country home in Livingston County, Michigan, of her uncle, Howard Graves Meredith (1856–1934), described by Lord Birkenhead as "a great character, and one of the most attractive and warm-hearted men I have ever met".

Their daughter Moira's son is Rowan Gillespie, the Irish bronze casting sculptor, whose latest work Proclamation is a memorial to the signatories of the Proclamation of the Irish Republic and, according to his biographer Roger Kohn, to his grandfather's dream of a Utopian society.

Philosophy and writings

Meredith was remembered as a kind, intelligent and philosophical man. A polymath, he held doctorates in literature and law. He wrote a successful play and five books, most notable of which was his 1911 translation of 'Kant's Critique of Aesthetic Judgement', still widely used today by English speaking scholars of Immanuel Kant.

The Merediths' Dublin house, Hopeton, was a centre for well-known poets, writers and artists of the time, and they also kept a country residence, Albert House, at Dalkey. Never one to follow the crowd, he became a Quaker in later life and after his death, 14 August 1942, was buried at the Friend's Temple Hill Cemetery, Blackrock, Dublin.

Arms

Notes

Works

Kant's Critique of aesthetic judgement / translated with seven introductory essays, notes, and analytical index, Oxford, 1911 at Internet Archive
 Proportional representation in Ireland, Dublin and London, 1913 at Internet Archive
 (with Hector Hughes) The Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act, 1920, Dublin, 1920
 The rainbow in the valley, Dublin, 1939 (science fiction)
 Nell Nelligan: A romance of the Irish volunteers, Dublin, 1940 (a play)

References
 Ferguson, Kenneth (ed.), King's Inns Barristers 1868–2004, Dublin, 2005, pp. 253–54.
 Kotsonouris, Mary, Retreat from Revolution- The Dáil Courts, 1920–24, Dublin, 1994.
 Kotsonouris, Mary, The Winding-up of the Dáil Courts, 1922–1925 – An obvious duty, Dublin, 2004.

External links
 Mrs James Creed Meredith (Lorraine Seymour Percy) with her and her husband's cousin Frederick Edmund Meredith at Senneville, 1901
 Site dedicated to Sister Fidelma, scroll to 'The last Judge of the Brehon Laws'  for brief bio. of Meredith