[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Defense of Cincinnati

lroad tunnel (still in use), it was renamed for Larz Anderson, a Cincinnati businessman, married to Catherine Longworth, daughter of Nicholas Longworth. Larz was the brother of Brevet Major General Robert Anderson of Fort Sumter. Minor traces of this earthwork and a few rifle pits can still be seen.

Campbell County
 Wiggins Battery - This position overlooked the Licking River valley and was named for Samuel Wiggins, a Cincinnati banker and realtor. It was also known as John's Hill Battery.
 Holt Battery - Originally known as Three Mile Creek Battery and alternately as Licking Point Battery, it was named for Major General Joseph Holt, Judge Advocate General of the Army. This easily accessible earthwork is owned by Vista Pointe Apartments in Wilder, Kentucky; residential construction has destroyed much of the site north of the earthwork.
 McLean Battery - Also known as Locust Hill Battery, it was named for Major Nathaniel H. McLean, Chief of Staff for the Department of the Ohio.
 Harrison Battery - Believed to have been named for Montgomery Pike Harrison an Indiana officer killed in Texas by Indians in 1849.
 Shaler Battery - Located on property owned by Dr. Nathaniel B. Shaler, chief surgeon of the Newport Barracks, and then in use as a vineyard but adjacent to Evergreen Cemetery. Today, the cemetery encompasses the entire Shaler property. The first earthwork built on the site was leveled by U.S. Army Engineers. A larger earthwork was constructed behind the original position and remains intact. This is the most easily accessible of the remaining defensive positions.
 Groesbeck Batteries - Referred to as Batteries 1 & 2, Groesbeck, these two small positions were built in 1864 to guard the approaches to Fort Burnside. They were named for William S. Groesbeck, a Cincinnati lawyer and politician.
 Phil Kearny Battery - Originally named Beech Woods Battery, it was renamed for Major General Philip Kearny, who was killed at the battle of Chantilly, September 1, 1862.
 Fort Burnside - Constructed in 1863, this elaborate earthwork fort commanded the area from Shaler Battery to Fort Whittlesey. It was named for Major General Ambrose Burnside, commander of the Department of the Ohio, 1863–1864.
 Fort Whittlesey - Named for Colonel Charles Whittlesey, who had retired a few months before the threat to Cincinnati and was called back into service by Wallace, his former division commander.
 Battery Lee - Constructed in 1863 to overlook the Ohio River valley to the east and named for R. W. Lee, whose identity is still unknown. The earthwork was leveled for the construction of a parade ground for Fort Thomas in 1890.

Ohio batteries
 Price's Hill Battery - Located on the western edge of Cincinnati overlooking the Ohio River.
 Mount Adams Battery - Located on the eastern side of Cincinnati near Immaculata Church on Mount Adams. The present site is known as Fort View Place.
 Butcher's Hill Battery - Located near the present site of Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park in Eden Park.

Notes

Sources
 Adams, Roger C.  "Panic on the Ohio:  The Defense of Cincinnati, Covington, and Newport, September 1862" The Journal of Kentucky Studies 9 (September 1992), pp. 80–98.
 Heth, Henry.  The Memoirs of Henry Heth (Westport, CT:  Greenwood Press), 1974.
 Pinney, Nelson A. History of the 104th Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry from 1862 to 1865 (Akron, OH: Werner and Lohmann), 1886. 
 Ramage, James A.  "Panic on the Ohio!:  Confederates March on Cincinnati, September 1862 - II. Panic in Cincinnati" Blue & Gray Magazine Vol. 3, No. 5 (April–May 1986), pp. 11–15.
 Roth, David E. "Panic on the Ohio!:  Confederates March on Cincinnati, September 1862 - III. 'Squirrel Hunters' to the Rescue" Blue & Gray Magazine Vol. 3, No. 5 (April–May 1986), pp. 16–18.
 U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, Series I, Volume 16, Part II (Washington, DC:  U.S. Government Printing Office), 1886.  [See pages 470–511.]
 U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, Series I, Volume 52, Part I (Washington, DC:  U.S. Government Printing Office), 1886.
 Walden, Geoffrey R.  "Panic on the Ohio!:  Confederates March on Cincinnati, September 1862 - I. Introduction" Blue & Gray Magazine Vol. 3, No. 5 (April–May 1986), pp. 7–8.
 Walden, Geoffrey R.  "Panic on the Ohio!:  Confederates March on Cincinnati, September 1862 - IV. The Defenses of Cincinnati" Blue & Gray Magazine Vol. 3, No. 5 (April–May 1986), pp. 19–29.

External links
 National flag of the Black Brigade
 Kentucky Historical Marker

Confederate Heartland Offensive
Cincinnati in the American Civil War
Campbell County, Kentucky
Kenton County, Kentucky
1862 in Kentucky
Military operations of the American Civil War in Ohio
Military operations of the American Civil War in Kentucky
September 1862 events