[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Complex interdependence

network conceal those collaborative links, as states take advantage of the nodes to fulfill their own self-interests. They came to the conclusion that liberal ideas about a globalized network do not correspond with the examples we have seen of states weaponizing interdependence (for example, SWIFT).

Realism 
Complex interdependence has been labeled "the opposite of realism". The idea often pushes back against classical realist logic, such as the interdependent relationship between Canada and the United States. Neither country feels threatened by each other, given their relationship of shared values and goals. Realist logic would state that the vying of power would have both states always competing for security, but under complex interdependence logic, this is not the case. Keohane and Nye see complex interdependence as often a more accurate representation of reality than classical realism but claim that most situations fall in between the two ideal portraits.

Neorealism and classical realism are separate from complex interdependence but are considered relevant in appropriate situations. Complex interdependence does not apply universally. In third world states where states are trying to maximize their strengths and thus gain power, realism and neorealism remain prominent. Complex interdependence remains prevalent on the other side of the world, where nations are looking to create economic gains and push the conflict to the side. Though Keohane and Nye see complex interdependence as often more realistic than realism, they recognize that realism remains relevant in many current situations.

It is understood that traditional theories cannot explain global regime change when it relates to complex interdependence. One cannot use a realist perspective when explaining a situation born of complex interdependence.

Political Economy of Complex Interdependence 
The complex relationships promoted in complex interdependence can be observed in the International Political Economy. As Globalism matures, the political economies of the world grow interdependent. This perspective assumes that the global system is complex, that states' behavior in this system is rational, that global relationships continue to grow in relevance, and that the system of international political economy is not closed. All of this complexity surmises in the uncertain environment of international politics. States that partake in this system hold economic connections with other economies, promoting interdependence between participating states.

Economic Coercion 
The emergence of complex interdependence has created dependency among states, as the liberal theorists described. Yet, the realist take on power can be displayed through the economic imbalance experienced among states to inflict their influence through complex interdependence. Such an example would include how China could use loans to fund a new port in Sri Lanka, knowing that Sri Lanka could not pay due to increasing debt. Later, China collected it for themselves. Through the complex relationships and needs of other states, states may use their own systematical advantage over the states that rely on them more.

Such complex interdependence can be seen as a negative and a positive among states. Often, states may use such relationships for the greater good of themselves or, at times, the greater good of the other. Economic Coercion through complex interdependence can allow the states to ensure a better world order for all states involved and humanity. Jeff D. Colgan discusses the example of Climate change reform emerging from economic ties. He considers how China's economic dependency on the United States creates fertile ground to instill climate change policies using a "climate change club" of the United States and the European Union. Any member not in this club would be subject to tariffs from member states, including China, if they don't join. The United States must then decide whether removing economic ties is valuable for them or if maintaining economic relations with China is of more significant value for all based on the complex interdependence. Such a move displays the ideas of realists in the complex interactions among states.