[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gowind-class design

the ships he wanted rather than the Meko A200 being offered by German group ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems (TKMS) or the Sigma corvette proposed by Damen of the Netherlands. Egypt is in talks with France to acquire another two Gowind corvettes which, if ordered, would be produced by France in Lorient.

In April 2015, Naval Group started cutting metal for the very first Gowind 2500 corvette, with a planned construction period of 29 months. It is the first of a series of four units that will be delivered to Egypt before 2019. The corvette's first block was laid in the dry dock in September 2015. Naval Group celebrated the launch of the first Egyptian Gowind corvette El Fateh at the Lorient naval shipyard in September 2016. El Fateh successfully concluded its first sea trials by the end of March 2017. The Egyptian Navy took delivery of the vessel in September 2017, three years after the order was placed.

Alexandria Shipyard started cutting metal for the second Gowind corvette intended for the Egyptian Navy in April 2016, it is the first corvette to be built locally in Egypt. Naval Group sent supervision and technical assistance teams, technical data and necessary components to Alexandria for assisting Egypt in the local construction of the three corvettes. The company also provided training for the Egyptian staff at its site in Lorient. All the Panoramic Sensors and Intelligence Modules (PSIM) were produced and tested in Lorient by Naval Group and later shipped to Alexandria for installation on the corvettes. The launching ceremony of the second Gowind corvette Port Said took place in September 2018 in Alexandria.

Construction work on the third vessel has already started, its first block was laid in the dry dock by July 2018.

Malaysia

Malaysia is locally designing and building six stealth frigates displacing 3,100 tons and length 111 meter based on the design of the Gowind corvette. In 2023, it is confirmed that Malaysia will only build five instead of six ship after the sixth ship were cancelled.

Argentina
Argentina chose the OPV variant (Kership design). After repeated negotiations and break-offs, in February 2018 the Argentine Navy was instructed to restart negotiations with Naval Group for the procurement of four Gowind-class vessels. The decision was motivated by the meeting between Argentine President Mauricio Macri and French President Emmanuel Macron at the annual World Economic Forum summit in Davos, Switzerland. An order for four vessels was expected in July 2018. In November 2018, Argentina confirmed the purchase of four Gowind-class vessels. The purchase includes the already-built , which in 2016 visited the region on a marketing trip, and three new vessels.

United Arab Emirates
In 2019 March 25, the United Arab Emirates Navy had signed a contract with Naval Group for Euro750 million (USD850m) for two 2500 class frigates (actually weighing 2,700 tonnes) with options for two more, to be built in partnership with Abu Dhabi Ship Building Company (ADSB). They will be equipped with Naval Group's SETIS combat management system, MBDA's Exocet missile, Raytheon's Evolved Sea Sparrow missiles. This contract was announced in mid-June 2019 by Naval Group.

Cancelled

Romania

In July 2019, Naval Group won a €1.2 billion contract, which included the construction of four new Gowind multi-mission corvettes for the Romanian Navy. Naval Group was due to build the first corvette within three years, while the remaining three corvettes were to be constructed by Constanța Shipyard and delivered before 2026. The contract was canceled by Romanian Ministry of Defence on 8 August 2023, following disagreements on the price of constructing the corvettes.

Potential operators

Indonesia
In January 2020 the Indonesian Minister of Defence Prabowo Subianto, during a bilateral meeting in France with his French counterpart Florence Parly, said the Indonesian Ministry is interested in French military equipment; including 36 Dassault Rafale aircraft, (in negotiation)  submarines, and 2 Gowind corvettes. On 7 June 2021, Indonesia signed a letter of intent to buy two Gowind corvettes from France.

Greece 
, Greece is interested in 5 Gowind 2800HN corvettes based on the Gowind 2500 for the Hellenic Navy as part of a $5 billion defence package.

See also 
 Damen Naval - Sigma corvette
 Littoral combat ship
 
 
 MILGEM project
 
 
 
 
 Doha-class corvette

References

External links 
 Alexandria shipyard
 Gowind Official website
 DCNS presented an export version of its FREMM Frigate and its Gowind range at Euronaval

 
Ship types
Corvettes of the Egyptian Navy