[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alfred Mouton

h Sherman and John A. McClernand. During one of these attacks, Colonel Mouton was wounded. After this Confederate defeat in April 1862, General P.G.T. Beauregard ordered a withdrawal back to Corinth. After arriving there, the 18th Louisiana was sent back to Louisiana to replenish its depleted ranks.

While back in Louisiana, Mouton was made interim commander of the District of West Louisiana, part of the Trans-Mississippi Department, and did what he could with the limited men and supplies that he had to fight off Federal attempts to move into the state. His army, attempting to protect the sugar cane farms along Bayou Lafourche, was brushed aside by the U.S. Volunteers under Brigadier General Godfrey Weitzel in the Battle of Georgia Landing at Labadieville, Louisiana, in October 1862, which led to Weitzel destroying much of the crops in that area. With the arrival of Confederate  Major General Richard Taylor, Mouton was made a brigade commander and given the rank of brigadier general. The duo of Mouton and Taylor would prove to be one of the most efficient during the war and they, along with cavalry commander Thomas Green, would harass, confuse, frustrate, and delay Union attempts to secure the Bayou Teche region of southern Louisiana. Mouton's leadership in his Louisiana brigade helped the Confederates undermine Union attempts to access the rich Bayou Teche region. He was a key participant in the battles of Irish Bend, Fort Bisland, Franklin, and Bayou Borbeau, along with numerous other smaller skirmishes.

Mouton's brigade was used as the lead unit in the Confederate attack at the Battle of Mansfield. While leading his brigade in a charge against the Union position, Mouton was shot and killed. Historian John D. Winters reports on the battle: "On his horse, Mouton made a perfect target, and a Federal marksman dropped him from his saddle. The gallant Polignac now rode forward and took over the command. With tears of grief and rage in their eyes, the yelling men followed Polignac. They ran on through the deadly hail, determined to avenge the death of their leader. ... Mouton's division lost about one third of its total strength." Mouton's death was lamented by General Taylor, who said, "Above all the death of the gallant Mouton affected me ... modest, unselfish, and patriotic. He showed best in action always leading his men." He was first buried on the battlefield but was moved in 1874 to St. John's Cemetery in Lafayette, Louisiana.

Mouton's stepmother was the sister of Confederate General Franklin Gardner.

Honors

A street in the Lakeview area of New Orleans was named for Mouton. In 2021, the city's Street Renaming Commission identified it as one that should be renamed, saying Mouton was "integral in supporting and promoting the institution of slavery and owned enslaved people."

In 1922, a statue of General Mouton was erected in downtown Lafayette by the United Daughters of the Confederacy as part of its larger efforts to promote the Lost Cause mythology. The city's mayor at the time was future congressman Robert L. Mouton, one of the many Mouton cousins to hold powerful positions in the area over generations. After years of activism led by the organization Move the Mindset, the statue was removed from its prominent downtown street corner on July 17, 2021. The statue has since been relocated to the Confederate museum at Camp Moore.

A street in downtown Lafayette remains named in Mouton's honor, as is a street in Bossier City, near Barksdale Air Force Base. The Brigadier General J. J. Alfred A. Mouton Camp #778 of the Sons of Confederate Veterans, in Opelousas, Louisiana, is also named for him.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes

References
 Ayres, Thomas. Dark and Bloody Ground: The Battle of Mansfield and the Forgotten Civil War in Louisiana. Dallas, TX: Taylor Trade Pub., 2001. .
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher. Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Parrish, T. Michael. Richard Taylor: Soldier Prince of Dixie. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1992, .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .
 Taylor, Richard. Destruction and Reconstruction : Personal experiences of the late war, Time-Life Books, 1983.
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .
 Winters, John D. The Civil War in Louisiana. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1963. .
 J. Franklin Mouton III | The Moutons. 1978

External links
Encyclopedia of Cajun Culture
History of the 18th Louisiana Infantry
Cemetery Memorial by La-Cemeteries