[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# William C. Harrop

through the system because it would be like 'shooting yourself in the foot' (that is, jeopardizing your chances of getting a good assignment after the IG tour)." GAO, State Department’s Office of Inspector General Should Be More Independent and Effective, AFMD-83-56 (Washington, D.C.: June 2, 1982).

One sees the problem in Harrop's subsequent career. He lobbied hard for another ambassadorship and was rewarded when he was recommended as the next ambassador to Zaire. He served from January 28, 1988 to May 18, 1991.  Harrop's confirmation was difficult, as U.S. policy in Congo was highly controversial and Helms placed a hold on Harrop's nomination. After finally being confirmed, Harrop went to Kinshasa, then dominated by General Mobutu Sese Seko. 

After returning to the United States, Harrop was informed that he was one of the candidates for Pakistan or Israel. Eventually, Harrop was appointed ambassador to Israel, his final posting; Harrop succeeded William Andreas Brown in the post. He served from January 21, 1992 to May 7, 1993.  Important events during Harrop's tenure included the Dotan affair, the recognition of the PLO by Israel for the first time, and the beginning of the talks that led to the Oslo I Accord.

Post-retirement
In 2004, Harrop was among 27 retired diplomats and military commanders who publicly said the administration of President George W. Bush did not understand the world and was unable to handle "in either style or substance" the responsibilities of global leadership. On June 16, 2004 the Diplomats and Military Commanders for Change issued a statement against the Iraq War.

Harrop is a member of the Washington Institute of Foreign Affairs and a director of the American Academy of Diplomacy, the Senior Living Foundation of the American Foreign Service, American Diplomacy Publishers, the Henry L. Stimson Center, and the Washington Humane Society. Harrop is also chair of the Foreign Affairs Museum Council, which aims to establish a museum of U.S. diplomacy.

Harrop was for eight years the president of the Spring Valley-Wesley Heights Citizens Association in the District of Columbia.

Harrop received the 2015 Lifetime Contributions to American Diplomacy Award of the American Foreign Service Association (AFSA).

Harrop was one of five former U.S. ambassadors to Israel from administrations of both parties (and two additional former Under Secretaries of State) to sign a letter in July 2015 calling upon Congress to approve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, a comprehensive nuclear agreement, with Iran.

Personal life
Harrop is married to Ann Harrop (née Delavan); they have four sons and nine grandchildren. He speaks French and Italian.

References

|-

|-

|-

|-

1929 births
Ambassadors of the United States to Guinea
Ambassadors of the United States to Israel
Ambassadors of the United States to Kenya
Ambassadors of the United States to Seychelles
Ambassadors of the United States to the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Deerfield Academy alumni
Harvard College alumni
Living people
Missouri School of Journalism alumni
People from New Brunswick, New Jersey
The Stimson Center
United States Foreign Service personnel
20th-century American diplomats