[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sarwo Edhie Wibowo

an to become the Commander of Kodam XVII/Cendrawasih. In the lead up to the Act of Free Choice, through which Indonesia formally annexed the territory via representative referendum, Sarwo Edhie played a leading role in defeating some Papuan resistance.

Exclusion from Government and remaining career

Like many who had supported Suharto to power, Sarwo Edhie grew increasingly dissatisfied with the new President. As the years went on, Suharto began to exclude supporters like Sarwo Edhie from the running of Indonesia, preferring instead to take the advice of colleagues who had gone up the ranks with him such as Ali Murtopo. Being a New Order radical also did not help Sarwo Edhie's case and like Kemal and Dharsono, Suharto grew suspicious of him.
 
The final straw came in 1970, when Sarwo Edhie made allegations of Government corruption in 1970. From that point on, Sarwo Edhie was given positions that still held stature but kept him away from the politics of the Central Government in Jakarta. Sarwo Edhie then served as ABRI Academy (AKABRI) Governor (1970–1973), Indonesian Ambassador to South Korea (1973–1978), and Inspector General of the Department of Foreign Affairs (1978–1983).

When Suharto established Pancasila as the National Ideology in 1984, Sarwo Edhie was put in charge of the indoctrination process by being appointed Chairman of the Supervisory Body for Implementation of Guidance for Comprehension and Practice of Pancasila (BP-7) He was elected to the People's Representative Council (DPR) in 1987 and resigned his position in 1988 in protest of Sudharmono's nomination to the Vice Presidency.

Death
Sarwo Edhie died on 9 November 1989 from chronic high fever. He was buried in his native region Ngupasan, Pangenjurutengah in Purworejo, Central Java. In 2015, he was declared a "national hero" by Indonesia's national government. The announcement was controversial with the Indonesian public given Sarwo's role in the 1965–1967 bloody coup.

Family and personal life
Sarwo Edhie was married to Sunarti Sri Hadiyah, with whom he had seven children. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is his son-in-law, who was married to Sarwo Edhie's daughter Kristiani "Ani" Herawati until her death in June 2019.

He was the chairman of the Indonesian taekwondo federation.

Notes

External links
 Sarwo Edhie Wibowo profile

1925 births
1989 deaths
Indonesian generals
Indonesian collaborators with Imperial Japan
Javanese people
Members of Pembela Tanah Air
Members of the House of Representatives (Indonesia), 1987
People from Purworejo Regency
Yudhoyono family