[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thälmann Battalion

them the opportunity to reclaim an anti-fascist identity, their vision of a better Germany. For many it was also a time of either communist re-affirmation or political enlightenment (the largest block of all volunteers in the International Brigades was communist or had been recruited by communists).

However, the German volunteers were not above human faults and despair – especially as the war dragged on, and got increasingly difficult for the Republican side, which lacked the plentiful supplies and superior organisation of their Nationalist opponents. Records show that about one tenth of the volunteers eventually found themselves imprisoned at least for a certain duration for crimes like desertion, breaking discipline, or for political reasons as the Stalinist tendency in the Brigades increased (usually being accused of Trotskyism). Infighting between anarchists and communists, eventually resulting in outright battles with several hundred dead and the purging of rival communist groups like the Workers' Party of Marxist Unification (POUM), also further poisoned the atmosphere as Francisco Franco's victory came closer.
The Thälmann Battalion was memorialized in the song "Die Thälmann-Kolonne" (also known as "Spaniens Himmel", "Spain's Sky") by Gudrun Kabisch and Paul Dessau (writing pseudonymously as Paul Ernst and Peter Daniel, respectively), famously recorded by Ernst Busch.

World War II Partisan Battalion in the Former Yugoslavia 
On 8 August 1943, a Thälmann Battalion was founded in West Slavonia as an ethnic German unit within Josip Broz Tito's Partisan army in the former Yugoslavia. It was composed mainly of German Army (Wehrmacht) deserters and local ethnic Germans (Shwoveh) led by Commander Hans Pichler (a former fighter in the Spanish civil war) and Johann Mucker (Muker), a Shwovish Communist in the interwar period, as political commissar.  Mucker's son was killed by Ustashe on 13 March 1942, and later earned the honor of "People's Hero" after the war.  The battalion comprised roughly 200 men and was refreshed from Shwovish recruits from Croatia and the Serbian Banat.  It remained a separate unit with its own Germanic Black, red, and gold insignia.  It is said that Tito ordered that it not be engaged in combat against German Army units (the Partisans also fought Italian, Hungarian, Bulgarian, Croatian, Slovenian and Serbian forces.) In the end it was nearly destroyed in an engagement against heavily armored units at Mikleus (near Slatina) in November 1943, but continued to exist with some replacements.  It was used often for its propaganda value.  It adopted its own version of the Spanish Civil War song "Die Thälmann-Kolonne".

See also
 Carolina Bunjes
 Foreign involvement in the Spanish Civil War
 Spanish Republican Army

References 

International Brigades
Military history of Germany
Military units and formations established in 1936
Military units and formations disestablished in 1938