[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS Indianola

ght and resumed the movement south.  She had been chosen for the operation because her engines would allow her to make a speed of  upstream against the current, which was much faster than Porter's other ironclads, meaning that Indianola would better be able to escape upriver in case of an emergency.

However, Queen of the West was disabled in a fight with Confederate shore defenses along the Red, and had to be abandoned, with her escaping crew occupying the captured packet steamer Era No. 5.  They were pursued by the Confederate ram CSS William H. Webb, but managed to reach the safety of Indianola on February 16.  While Era No. 5 headed backed towards Union positions near Vicksburg, Indianola moved against William H. Webb and sighted her that afternoon near Ellis Cliffs, Mississippi.  Indianola fired, but was out of range, while the Confederate vessel escaped around a bend of the river in fog.  Indianola then held a blockade of the junction of the Red and the Mississippi, but withdrew on February 21 after learning that William H. Webb, the captured and repaired Queen of the West, and two steamers filled with Confederate soldiers were moving to attack her.

Slowed by the two coal barges which she was still bringing with her in the belief that Porter might send down another vessel and the coal would be needed, Indianola was caught on the night of February 24 by William H. Webb and Queen of the West.  The two Confederate vessels, under the command of Joseph Lancaster Brent, a major in the Confederate Army, could have reached Indianola earlier, but waited until nightfall for combat, in order to make it harder for the Union vessel to aim and to give the Confederate shore batteries at Grand Gulf, Mississippi a chance to fire on the ship.  Near Davis Bend, Mississippi, Brown turned the prow of his ship towards the Confederate vessels and prepared for combat by positioning the ship so that one of the coal barges was between Indianola and the Confederates.  After shots from the Union 11-inch guns missed, Queen of the West rammed Indianola on her port side and smashed one of the coal barges almost in half.  The Union sailors cut away the stricken barge, and then suffered the shock of a head-on ramming from William H. Webb; the Confederate ship was damaged in the collision but made another charge and crushed the other coal barge.  Queen of the West moved upstream to build momentum and then rammed the starboard side of Indianola, destroying the starboard rudder and wheelhouse.  William H. Webb performed a similar maneuver, and damaged the stern of the Union vessel.  Brown had ordered his ship to fire, but was only able to score either a single hit on the Queen of the West, which inflicted casualties but caused little structural damage or two hits on the Queen of the West that disabled cannons and a hit on William H. Webb.  With the ship sinking and barely steerable, Brown had Indianola run aground onto the western bank and hauled down his flag, but the Confederates were able to pull the stricken ship over to the eastern bank, which they held.  Indianola sunk in  of water.  During the fight, Indianola had been rammed seven times.  While all but one Union sailor survived the battle, only three escaped the ship's capture to bring word to Porter; Brown and most of the others had been taken prisoner.

The Confederates detached a salvage crew to attempt to raise Indianola. The Union authorities knew that if the vessel was repaired and added to the Confederate fleet like Queen of the West, the result could be disastrous for the Union fleet on the Mississippi as the two captured vessels could potentially defeat and capture other Union ships.  Porter did not have ships available to send on the risky mission to destroy the wreck of Indianola, so he ordered the construction of a hoax ironclad in order to bluff the Confederate salvage crew into abandoning the wreck.  This was accomplished by lengthening an old coal barge with logs and adding a casemate, Quaker guns, and two smokestacks made out of pork barrels.  The contraption, which was known by the name Black Terror, was sent downstream on February 26.  It passed the Vicksburg defenses without taking major damage, and frightened Queen of the West into leaving the area of the wreck.  The abandoned Confederate salvage crew, who may have been intoxicated, threw the 9-inch guns into the Mississippi, pointed the 11-inch guns at each other muzzle-to-muzzle and then fired them, before burning what remained to the waterline.  On the morning of February 27, the Confederates realized that Black Terror had only been a hoax.  Vicksburg fell to Union forces on July 4.  The remains of Indianolas wreck were raised on January 5, 1865, and towed to Mound City, Illinois, where they were sold on January 17.

References

Sources