[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of social nudity places in North America

the right, or along the shore when the water is low. It is approximately 200 meters to the nude section, then it winds through the brush for hundreds of meters past that.

Nova Scotia
 Crystal Crescent Beach Provincial Park, near Sambro, is about  from Halifax and has a section that is a nude beach.

Ontario
All areas of Ontario, unless otherwise specified by town or city by-laws, allow both males and females to be topless in public.
 Bare Oaks Family Naturist Park is a year-round facility north of Toronto in East Gwillimbury.
 East Haven Club near Ottawa
 Jewel Lake Wilderness Park in North Bay
 Port Burwell private beach, approximately  west of the Port Burwell Provincial Park parking lot #5.
 Sunny Glades Naturist Park in Bothwell
 Sunward Naturist Park in Calabogie
 Ponderosa Nature Resort in Flamborough, Ontario
 The Grand Barn was a clothing-optional facility located in eastern Ontario, equidistant between Ottawa, Cornwall, and Montreal.due to land use zoning restrictions the facility ceased operating in 2016
 Turkey Point Provincial Park
 Sandbanks Provincial Park has an unofficial nude beach area away from the mainstream beach area with signs posted against it.

Toronto
 The city of Toronto permits nudity at public events, such as the World Pride Parade & the World Naked Bike Ride.
 Beechgrove Beach, Toronto, located 100 metres east of the parking lot at the end of Beechgrove Drive
 Hanlan's Point Beach on the Toronto Islands is a sandy clothing-optional beach.

Quebec 
There are no officially recognized nude beaches in the province, but there are six spots that have secluded areas where nudity is accepted.
 Oka (Oka National Park – known locally as Okapulco), is about  from Montreal.
 Meech Lake in Gatineau Park has had an unofficial nude beach for over 70 years, though it is subject to periodic raids from local police.
 Plage du Lac Simon, Duhamel
 Rivière Palmer, Chaudière-Appalaches
 Plage du Parc de la Pointe-Taillon, Lac Saint-Jean
 Plage de Boom Défense, Gaspé Peninsula
 Plage de Cap-aux-Oies, Charlevoix

Prince Edward Island
 Blooming Point Beach, in Prince Edward Island National Park along the northern shore of Prince Edward Island, contains an unofficial clothing-optional beach. The nude section is about a 15–20 minute walk west (to the left) of the parking lot.

Newfoundland and Labrador 
 Soldiers Pond is an unofficial clothing-optional swimming area in St. John's used mainly by locals. From Southside Road, hike Deadman's Bay Path to the top of the hill.

Saskatchewan
 Paradise Beach (Bareass Beach), located just outside Saskatoon

Costa Rica
 Montezuma Beach – Playa Grande is a thirty-minute hike north of Montezuma, with optional nudity.
 Playa Playitas, located west of Manuel Antonio National Park and south of Quepos

Cuba
 Cayo Santa Maria
 Cayo Largo
 Playa la Chocha Loca
 Pito Largo del Sur
 Playa El Pito Corto
 Playa Las Pompas Grandes
 La Mariela

Dominican Republic
 Caliente Caribe, near Abreu in Puerto Plata province. There have been reports that this resort has closed.

French Antilles 
The following beaches in the French Antilles.

Guadeloupe 
 Anse Crawen, not far from Bourg
 Anse Tarare

Martinique 
 Anse Traubaud
 Petite Anse des Salines

St. Barths 
Topless is common on most beaches.
Nudity is encountered at:
 Gouveneur Beach (at the western end)
 Saline beach (towards the east and little further in the small bay called Petite Saline)

Saint Martin 
 Orient Beach (contains an official nude section and is the most popular social nude beach on the island)
 Club Orient (resort1, restaurant and bars located adjacent to the official nude section of Orient Beach)
 Cupecoy (contains a nude section and non-nude section)
 Happy Bay (not officially nude but one side of beach is frequently nude)
 Rouge beach (not officially nude, but after the restaurants it is usual)
 The Jardin d'O Caribbean clothing optional resort is close to three beaches that are naturist-nudist friendly (Orient Bay, Happy Bay and Pinel Island).
 Topless is permitted on all beaches on the French side of the island, but many secluded beaches attract nude sunbathers.
 Residence Adam & Eve: a warm and friendly clothing optional resort located at Orient Bay close the Orient Nude Beach. Nude catamaran sailing cruises are also available.
1 The resort "Club Orient" was totally destroyed by Hurricane Irma in 2017 and declared bankruptcy

Grenada
 Beach off Sandals LaSource Resort
 Laluna, St. George's

Jamaica
 Couples Negril (nude beach section)
 Couples Sans Souci
 Couples Tower Isle (nude island)
 Hedonism II in Negril
 Negril Cabins Resort
 Rolcata Resort & Spa
 Sandals Royal Caribbean (backside of private island)
 Seven Mile Beach, Negril
 Sunset Beach Resort & Spa
 Nude Lun Park
 Grand Bahia Principe has a nude section at the back of the resort

Mexico