[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Joseph's Tomb

inian Authority police checkpoint. The IDF investigation concluded that the Palestinian police officers had acted "maliciously" and with the intent to harm the Jewish worshipers. IDF Chief of Staff Benny Gantz added that they fired "without justification and with no immediate threat to their lives".

Arson attacks
On 7 July 2014, Palestinians tried to burn down Joseph's tomb while protesting. Palestinian Authority security forces were able to stop the protesters before they were able to burn it down. On December 22, 2014, Jews who were visiting the tomb to light candles for the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah discovered that the site had been vandalized. Lights were broken and electrical wiring had been cut. It was the first time Jews were allowed to visit the tomb in over a month.

On 16 October 2015, amid a wave of violence between Palestinians and Israelis, hundreds of Palestinians overran the tomb and a group of them set it on fire. Palestinian security forces dispersed them and extinguished the flames and although the tomb itself was not apparently damaged, the women's section was heavily damaged according to the Walla website. Israeli security forces later arrived at the scene. According to a Palestinian official, the Palestinians had attempted to set up barricades in the area to prevent home demolitions by the Israeli Army, but a group of them proceeded to attack the tomb.

Israel's Deputy Foreign Minister Tzipi Hotovely said that the tomb is under Palestinian control and yet Palestinians put the place ablaze, showing that "their only goal to harm places which are holy to Jews, which teach our thousands year old connection to that place".

At 2 a.m. on the night of 18 October 2015, a group of 30 Jews on instruction from Rabbi Eliezer Berland, went to the tomb without permits, in contravention of a standing IDF order, to clean and paint the compound that was burned three days before. As they were attacked by Palestinians, six of them were bruised by beatings, and one of their vehicles was burnt. They claimed that the Palestinian police, who had detained them, had also beaten them, before they were handed over to the Israeli army, which had been called to extract the others.

In September 2021, a convoy of buses carrying Jews for Sukkot prayers at the site were attacked by a group of Palestinians. Two Border Police officers were injured during the clash.

On 9 April 2022, about 100 Palestinians stormed Joseph's Tomb, shattering the tombstone and damaging a chandelier and an electrical enclosure. Two Haredi Jews were moderately wounded by gunfire while trying to enter the site the following day.

See also
 Joseph's Well
 Mitzpe Yosef

References

Bibliography

External links

New York Times slideshow of the tomb. October 2008
Film depicting the vandalism & destruction of the tomb 
Website with photos of the destruction
Photo of the tomb during the destruction

Tombs of biblical people
Hebrew Bible places
Nablus
Tourist attractions in the State of Palestine
Disputed tombs
Shrines in the State of Palestine
Jewish pilgrimage sites
Samaritan pilgrimage sites
Joseph (Genesis)
Cemetery vandalism and desecration
Tombs in the State of Palestine
Shechem