[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Saint George S.C.

Saint George Sports Club (Amharic: ቅዱስ ጊዮርጊስ ስፖርት ክለብ, Kidus Giorgis Sport Club), otherwise known as Kidus Giorgis, is a professional football club based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. They play in the top division of Ethiopian football, the Ethiopian Premier League. Founded in 1935, the club was the first in Ethiopia and was established as a symbol of Ethiopian nationalism and resistance against the occupying forces of fascist Italy.

History

Establishment & the Patriotic Struggle (1935–44) 
The club was founded in December 1935 (Taḫśaś 1928 E.C.) as Arada Kidus Giorgis (Saint George) Football Club by George Ducas and Ayale Atnash. The club was named after the neighborhood in which it was founded, the Arada (also called "Arada Giorgis") neighborhood of Addis Abeba. The first players to play for the club were students gathered from Ducas' and Atnash's schools, Teferi Mekonnen and Kidus Giorgis (Saint George) respectively.

Established during Fascist Italy's invasion of Ethiopia, the club quickly became the symbol of Ethiopian nationalism in the midst of Italian occupation. The patriotic struggle of the 1930s left an indelible mark on the club and the Arada neighborhood, defining both for centuries to come. The history of the club is often thought to be heavily influenced by this neighborhood. St George was said to have started with only 2 Tegera Birr, 1 ball, goal posts and a stamp.

Often finding it hard to play football on local pitches due to restrictions placed on them by the Arada police, the club had to constantly move from place to place. In one instance the club members tried carrying goal posts to 'Filwehameda' ( presently located next to Custom Authorities Head Office), but were ultimately chased away by authorities. Attempts to play at  'Aroge Kera' on the 'Etege Menen' field were also unsuccessful as unhappy local villagers chased them away. Then they went to 'Belay Zeleke' 'Zebegna Sefer' village, but Arada police came and chased them away once again.

Matches were organized against other local teams or groups in the area such as those of the Armenian community of Addis Ababa. However, because the club was shorthanded in the number of players, they had they ended up recruiting others to play. This is how Yidnekachew Tessema came to be a part of the team, he was found on the streets of Addis and was asked to join them for the match. It was said that he was spotted while crossing Berad Mekonnen bridge and since he went to Teferi Mekonnen School where all club members went to school,  they were familiar with him. After agreeing to join them, St. George was able to beat the Armenian team 2-0 thanks to two goals by Yidnekachew himself.

The club's first jerseys were brown and white, affordable cloth for the cash strapped club at the time. One of the founders, George Ducas, used scrap together money from his parents to support the club. Others in the club would go around knocking at doors singing traditional songs like "Hoya Hoye" in order to earn money for the club. The customary reward for their singing efforts was bread, not money, but they were able collect this bread in a sack to sell it in laborers' villages to earn the money. Once the club was able to find a funding source they were able to get a new jersey that implies their unity with the Ethiopian flag colors.  They gave the first jersey to the second team and started wearing the new ones until pressure from the occupying police force made them have to hide this new jersey underneath their clothing.

After buying jersey with the money, the club bought food for the players with the rest of the money. The members and players of the club would to eat bread and tea after matches and training sessions.

When Italian efforts to directly destroy St. George didn't work, they forced the club to change its name and play matches against a club the Italians had created called '6 kilo'. This club was purposely created by Italians to weaken and demoralize St. George. Sponsored by the nearby factory 'Cugnac Alovo', 6 Kilo (also called 'Cenco Maje' to mean July 5), had more money and supplies than St. George. They beat St. George on multiple occasions and St. George also did the same however those matches nearly always ended with beatings by the Arada (Italian) police.

The ongoing Guerrilla warfare during this time was of the utmost importance to the club and its members. Knowing this the Italians trying using the club as a propaganda tool for their own administration in order to confuse and entrap the guerilla fighters. The Italians sent a messages to resistance leaders like Ras. Abebe Aregay to "come and see the people is in peace" inviting him to watch a football match at JanMeda, a popular field in Addis Ababa.