[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Patrick Sookhdeo

its international director despite the verdict. By contrast, the Orthodox Anglican website Virtueonline's managing editor David Virtue criticized the legal process as a travesty, asserted Sookhdeo's innocence, and cited concerns about the complainant's behaviour and inconsistencies in her testimony.

On 21 November 2015, Patrick Sookhdeo was arrested by the Metropolitan Police at Heathrow Airport on suspicion of indecent assault. The following day, Sookhdeo resigned from all roles at Barnabas Aid International and Barnabas Fund due to the media publicity around his arrest. In February 2016, the trustees of the Barnabas Fund defended Patrick Sookhdeo and announced his intention to appeal the conviction. They reported that twelve senior Anglican figures had concluded after looking at the evidence that "there had been a concerted move to take Patrick Sookhdeo down and destroy the Barnabas Fund." It also described Sookhdeo's arrest by armed officers from the Metropolitan Police at Heathrow after an 'all ports' alert had been issued for him, even though for a month prior, he had been living in his own home 100 metres from the police station which prompted the arrest.

In early March 2016, it was reported that Patrick Sookhdeo was facing historical sexual assault charges against a woman dating back to 1977. On 4 April 2016, Sookhdeo appeared in the Thames District Court where he was arraigned on one count of indecent assault on a woman aged 16 or over in Plaistow, East London, in 1977. At Snaresbrook Crown Court the jury unanimously found him not guilty on 2 August 2018.

Criticism and praise
Hamza A. Bajwa, News Editor of The Muslim Weekly, has criticised Sookhdeo, claiming that he presents a distorted image of Islam and Muslims, and Mehdi Hasan in The Guardian accused him of being a "crude, anti-Islam propagandist". Against this, Sheikh Dr Muhammed Al-Husseini, a Muslim scholar from the interfaith organisation Scriptural Reasoning, has said of Sookhdeo: "It is an absolute pleasure to be with somebody who is a very highly valued colleague, a deeply trusted colleague and for whose work I have the highest regard." A joint statement in support of Sookhdeo was also published by Muhammed Al-Husseini and Islamic thinker and reformer Tawfik Hamid as a response to the Guardian article.

Works

Books and booklets 
 1972 – The Asian in Britain, London: Community and Race Relations Unit of the British Council of Churches (booklet)
 1972 – Asians in Britain : a Christian understanding, Church Pastoral-Aid Society, 
 1983 – Christianity & Other Faiths, Paternoster Press, 
 2001 – A Christian's Pocket Guide to Islam, Christian Focus and Isaac,  (also 2006, )
 2002 – A People Betrayed: The Impact of Islamisation on the Christian Community in Pakistan, Christian Focus Publications;  Isaac Publishing, 
 2004 – Understanding Islamic Terrorism: The Islamic Doctrine of War, Isaac Publishing,  (published in US 2009 as "Understanding Islamist Terrorism: The Islamic Doctrine of War", )
 2006 –  Islam the Challenge to the Church, Isaac Publishing, 
 2007 – Global Jihad: The Future in the Face of Militant Islam, Isaac Publishing, 
 2008 – Faith, Power and Territory: A Handbook of British Islam, Isaac Publishing, 
 2008 – Understanding Shari'a Finance: The Muslim challenge to Western economics, Isaac Publishing, 
 2009 –  The Challenge of Islam: To the Church and Its Mission, Isaac Publishing,  (2nd rev. ed. of "Islam the Challenge to the Church")
 2009 – Freedom to Believe – Challenging Islam's Apostasy Law, Isaac Publishing, 
 2010 – A Pocket Guide to Islam, Christian Focus Publications ; Isaac Publishing,  (2nd rev. ed. of "A Christian's Pocket Guide to Islam")
 2010 – My Devotional Journal, Isaac Publishing, 
 2011 – Islam in our Midst, The Challenge to Our Christian Heritage, Isaac Publishing, 
 2012 – Heroes of our faith – Inspiration and strength for daily living, Isaac Publishing, 
 2012 – Is the Muslim Isa the Biblical Jesus?, Isaac Publishing, 
 2019 – Hated Without a Reason: The Remarkable Story of Christian Persecution over the Centuries, Isaac Publishing,

Co-authored or contributed 
 1982 – Christianity and Marxism, with Alan Scarfe, Paternoster Press, 
 1991 – Sharing Good News: The Gospel and Your Asian Neighbours, Scripture Union, 
 2004 – Christians in the Muslim World in The Myth of Islamic Tolerance: How Islamic Law Treats Non-Muslims, Prometheus Books, 
 2005 – Islam in Britain: The British Muslim Community in February 2005, Isaac Publishing, 
 2010 – Ideas Matter: How to Undermine the Extremist Ideology Behind al Qaeda in Towards a Grand Strategy Against Terrorism, McGraw-Hill, 
 2012 – The West, Islam, and the counter-ideological war in Fighting the Ideological War – Winning Strategies from Communism to Islamism, Isaac Publishing, 
 2013 – Patrick Sookhdeo in How prayer impacts lives: 41 Christians and their conversations with God, Christian Focus,