[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Perth East, Ontario

ton, Mornington, North Easthope and South Easthope.

Township operations are overseen by the Chief Administrator's Office and municipal departments include Building, Clerk's Office, Finance, Fire Services, Library Services, Planning, Public Works, and Recreation.

Township Council 2018-2022 
Source:

County government 
Because the Perth East is part of the upper-tier municipality Perth County, Ontario, it has representation on the County Council.  The Perth County Council is determined by a restructuring order that came into force on January 1, 1998. That Council is made up of representatives from the four Perth Townships.  The head of County Council is elected from among the council members annually, by a vote at council and is known as the Warden. In 2018-2019, the Perth County Warden is Walter McKenzie from West Perth.

Perth East Mayor Rhonda Ehgoetz, Deputy Mayor Hugh McDermid, and Councillor Daryl Herlick serve as Perth East's representatives on County Council.

Provincial Government 

Perth—Wellington is a provincial electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that has been represented in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario since the 2007 provincial election.  It was created in 2003 from parts of Dufferin—Peel—Wellington—Grey, Perth—Middlesex and Waterloo—Wellington ridings.

It consists of the County of Perth, and the Town of Minto and the townships of Mapleton and Wellington North in the County of Wellington.  As of June 2, 2022, the MPP for the riding is Matthew Rae.

Federal government 
Perth—Wellington is a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that has been represented in the House of Commons of Canada since 2004. The riding was created in 2003 from parts of Perth—Middlesex (76%), Waterloo—Wellington (17%) and Dufferin—Peel—Wellington—Grey (7%) ridings. It did not undergo any boundary changes in the 2012 electoral redistribution.

It consists of the County of Perth, the City of Stratford, the Town of St. Mary's and the Town of Minto and the townships of Mapleton and Wellington North in the County of Wellington.

Since 2015, the MP for this riding has been John Nater (PC).

See also

List of townships in Ontario

References

External links 

Lower-tier municipalities in Ontario
Municipalities in Perth County, Ontario
Township municipalities in Ontario