[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# European-Atlantic Group

The European-Atlantic Group (E-AG) is a non-governmental organization which aims to promote closer relations between the European and Atlantic countries by providing a forum in Britain for discussion of their problems and possibilities for better economic and political cooperation. The E-AG is a wide-ranging, non-aligned, all-party, registered charity, based in Westminster, which works in the field of international relations. Most E-AG meetings since 2018 have been held at Westminster in House of Commons committee rooms; when Parliament is not sitting, however, meetings may be held in the City or elsewhere in London. E-AG trustees were Lord Hamilton of Epsom and Christopher Arkell until July 2018, when new trustees were appointed. The group aims to strengthen trans-Atlantic links. Its future depends on the support of those who care about issues such as defense and security, the UK's relationship with the United States, NATO, and international challenges. The E-AG, a non-party organization, is classified as educational by the Charity Commission for England and Wales.

History 
The E-AG was founded in London in 1954 by Council of Europe vice-president Michael Layton, 2nd Baron Layton, other members of both Houses of Parliament, industrialists, bankers, economists, journalists and Elma Dangerfield. Its founders said that their purpose was to disseminate authoritative information about the work of international organizations such as the Council of Europe, NATO, the OECD, the Western European Union, the European Coal and Steel Community, Euratom, the European Economic Community, the European Free Trade Association, the Association for General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs, and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. The Association for General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs followed the signing of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade on 30 October 1947.

The group's London office was originally at 6 Gertrude Street in Chelsea. In addition to holding monthly dinners and meetings in London, the group sent delegations abroad to European and NATO institutions in Brussels, Paris and Luxembourg, and to Germany, Italy, Turkey and Greece, as guests of governments and international organizations. Group representatives have also visited the United States, the Soviet Union and the Eastern Bloc with the object of improving East-West relations. The E-AG has held discussions on European-Atlantic relations with the Middle East, the Far East, Africa, Afghanistan, and Latin American countries.

Events and participants 
The E-AG has hosted anniversary banquets for the founding of NATO each decade. In 1989, NATO's 40th anniversary, the Duke of Edinburgh was the main speaker at Guildhall; General John Galvin (US Army), Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, also spoke. The 50th-anniversary celebration was also at Guildhall with the Duke of York, NATO Secretary-General Manfred Worner, the Foreign Minister of Poland and 525 delegates. In 2009, NATO's 60th anniversary was celebrated at St James's Palace with 27 ambassadors among the delegates; the main speaker was again the Duke of York.

E-AG monthly events have been addressed by President Nyerere of Tanzania; King Hussain of Jordan and his brother, Prince Hassan; Ian Duncan-Smith; Michael Howard; David Blunkett, and former presidents Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia, Tan Mahathir of Malaysia and Vytautas Landsbergis of Lithuania. Elma Dangerfield was appointed a CBE for her work with the group.

Afghanistan, South Sudan, Lithuania and Ukraine have been the subjects of discussion and analysis. E-AG speakers have included royalty, presidents, the ambassadors of the United States, China and Russia, ministers, shadow ministers, the head of MI5, and the chiefs of the British armed forces. The E-AG hosts an annual meeting, usually held in November, at which two former members of Congress (representing the Democratic and Republican Parties) are guests.