[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Jericho (2006 TV series)

oor. With the cell phone (apparently actually the victim's cell phone) dead, and assuming that the man's associate is dead as well in the collapse, they start to climb through the rubble to find out what happened. Nearby, a hand with a surgical glove on emerges from the rubble, as the vignette ends.

Countdown
Starting on October 26, Beyond Jericho was replaced by Countdown, which documents Robert Hawkins' efforts to learn as much as possible about the effects of nuclear bombs before he moved to Jericho. The webisodes do not feature any of the regular characters, and consist primarily of Hawkins, draped in shadows, watching mini-documentaries.

The mini-documentaries feature expert interviews about the effects of a nuclear attack. They are only minimally connected to each episode's plot. For instance, CBS' 8-episode plot summary reads: "A shadowy military unit bursts into the chamber Hawkins has just vacated. On his computer, they find a video." The video was a short documentary about FEMA's response to Hurricane Katrina and their use of paramilitaries. The "shadowy military unit" then patiently waits until the documentary ends to resume its search for Hawkins.Countdowns sponsor, AT&T, is heavily promoted in the series using product placement. Nearly all dialog takes place as SMS messages on an AT&T cellular phone, and a full-screen AT&T logo appears in every episode when Hawkins views the expert interviews. This web-based programming is not accessible from outside of the United States.

JenningsandRall.com
Created for the Tom Tooman game, JenningsandRall.com is the purported website of Jennings & Rall, the corporate giant which plays an increasingly prominent role in the second season of the series. The site contains a wealth of information about the company's post-holocaust global operations, with significant hints regarding events in the show.

On November 1, 2008, the domain name jenningsandrall.com expired.

Tom Tooman
Tom Tooman is an alternate reality game that CBS ran in conjunction with Jericho, beginning in August 2007. The game began with a cryptic letter posted on a website, supposedly from a Tom Tooman of Lame Deer, Montana. This letter was accompanied by a series of bar codes, some with decimal numbers and others with Mayan numbers. These numbers were used to create an IP address for a second website. More clues were released, as well as a blog on the CBS website connecting the game with Jericho. The game abruptly ended when the series was cancelled, with no closure offered. A synopsis of the game and the puzzles appear at TomTooman.com.

See also
 Locations in Jericho (TV series)
 Continuity of Operations Plan – the Continuity of Government plan for the U.S. government
 List of nuclear holocaust fiction
 Nuclear War Survival Skills – the official nuclear Civil Defense manual from United States Department of Defense
 Nuclear weapons in popular culture
 Survivalism

References

External links

 

 
2000s American drama television series
2006 American television series debuts
2008 American television series endings
CBS original programming
English-language television shows
American action television series
2000s American mystery television series
Disaster television series
Post-apocalyptic television series
Serial drama television series
Television series by CBS Studios
American television series revived after cancellation
Television shows set in Kansas
Fictional populated places in Kansas
Kansas culture
Television series about nuclear war and weapons
Works by Stephen Chbosky
Second American Civil War speculative fiction