[Source: PubMed]

56. Ann Ist Super Sanita. 1991;27(2):325-30.

[Methods for the evaluation of a health intervention in developing countries: 
the case in the Arsi region, Ethiopia].

[Article in Italian]

Mele A(1), Materia E, Rosmini F, Stazi MA, Pasquini P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Epidemiologia e Biostatistica, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 
Roma.

Since 1989 an evaluation study of the impact of a Primary Health Care (PHC) 
program is being carried out in Arsi region, Ethiopia. The principal aim of the 
study is to estimate the mortality rates in those villages mainly involved in 
PHC activities. A sample of 80 villages will be recruited to allow significant 
differences in mortality of 20 per thousand between less treated and best 
treated villages. Considering the absence of routine demographic data, a 
population census and demographic surveillance of the recruited villages have 
been carried out. All the activities related to the study are considered 
together with the principal logistic and methodologic problems.

PIP: The Arsi region in Ethiopia has a population of 2 million who are served by 
2 hospitals, 7 health centers (HCs), and 82 health stations (HSs). In 1988, a 
primary health care program was launched to improve health care by restructuring 
the instrumentation of HCs, HSs, and health posts HPs, by strengthening 
maternal-child health (MCH) care with UNICEF support of an expanded program of 
immunization. In villages, community health agents (CHA) provide primary care 
for the sick as well as information on hygiene and sanitation in collaboration 
with traditional birth attendants (TBAs). The health indicators chosen for the 
study were: overall mortality, child mortality for ages 1-4, sudden illness, 
utilization of health care, and vaccination coverage. In the first year, child 
mortality was calculated indirectly by using the technique of Brass. The 
estimated annual birth rate was 43/1000, the mortality rate was 19/1000, and the 
child mortality rate was 149/1000. 80 villages with an average population of 
1500 each had about 5000 births a year. It was hypothesized that child mortality 
was 130/1000 in those villages that received minor health care and that a 
reduction of 20/100 could be achieved if 40 villages were completely covered by 
health care. Data collection regarding health indicators, sanitation, and 
household economics was envisioned for late 1989 and 1990 by student 
interviewers and CHAs. A quarterly demographic bulletin was issued by the 
Regional Epidemiological Office that monitored field work and checked data for 
quality. Periodic meetings of CHAs were held for problem-solving. the large 
nonhomogeneous population and inaccessible terrain posed most of the problems 
and necessitated a large staff for data collection and continuous supervision.

PMID: 1755587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]