[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Battery E, 1st Illinois Light Artillery Regiment

e:

Riding into Brandon, Battery E engaged Confederate scouts in a house there, "knocking out every window" there.  They set fire to a storehouse and burned down an entire city block, then turned their attention to the railroad depot and nearby tracks which they equally destroyed.

Return to Jackson

Following this event, Battery E returned to Jackson (which had been reoccupied by Confederate forces).  Though harassed during their march by Southern units, Private Rice reported that they "kept out of range of our brass band.  For when we play 'Dixie' on it, it makes them more than dance."  Upon arriving at Jackson they assisted in a nine-day siege, after which Confederate General Joseph E. Johnston evacuated the city.  Jackson was described as a "doomed city" in the battle's aftermath, with Rice affirming that he and his comrades tore up and burned tracks and ties from five different railroads extending twenty miles out from the city in all directions.

Ordered to return to Vicksburg, Battery E and other units crossed the battlefield at Champion Hill, scene of a Federal victory about two months earlier.  Rice describes how rain had washed away the soil used to cover the corpses of Confederate dead, who had simply been tossed into ditches on the battlefield by Federal troops and covered with a layer of dirt.  He also describes men kicking at skulls, bones and clothing protruding from the half-opened graves.

Bear Creek
Having returned to Vicksburg, On July 23 Battery E went into camp on Bear Creek on Oak Ridge, where they were exceptionally troubled by chiggers and flies, not to mention the oppressive summer heat.  This became their summer camp, and expeditions were made to Mechanicsburg, Miss., Canton, and other places.  On November 5 they took boat for Memphis, arriving there the 12th. During that winter they went to Lagrange, Tennessee and also, Corinth, Jack Creek, back again to Corinth, then finally back to Memphis via Lagrange.

Meridian expedition
On February 6, 1864, Battery E was ordered to cooperate with a 7000-man cavalry column led by General William Sooy Smith, moving south from Memphis to link up with General Sherman's forces engaged in the Meridian Expedition.  By this point, it had been equipped with six 12-pound Napoleon guns.  On the 10th of February 1864 it fought in a skirmish at Wyatt, Tennessee, on the Tallahatchie River, but five days later the Battery was ordered back to Memphis and took no further role in the campaign.

Back in Memphis, Battery E camped at the head of Main Street, near the city's Navy Yard.  In April 1864 they went to Bolivar and Ripley, Mississippi in search of General Nathan Bedford Forrest; but their supplies soon ran out and they were forced to return to Memphis to refit.  On May 5 the battery was attacked by local Confederates; these were beaten back, according to Rice, with "one of them [receiving] nine balls in his carcass."

Disaster at Brice's Crossroads

June 1, 1864, Battery E marched to Guntown, Mississippi, where it took part in the disastrous Battle of Brice's Crossroads on June 10.  Together with the 9th Minnesota Infantry, the battery initially formed a reserve force deployed near the crossroads itself.  Attacked by Confederates under General Forrest on both flanks at once, Colonel William McMillian, commanding the infantry on that portion of the field, ordered Battery E to sweep the Guntown Road with grapeshot and canister.  Despite heroic efforts by the 9th Minnesota and other Federal units the Northern army was pushed back, with Col. McMillian ordering Battery E with Battery B of the Second Illinois Light Artillery to hold off the Rebels until the infantry could escape.

The fleeing Federals became bottled up on a bridge just north of the crossroads, where they were raked by Confederate artillery as they struggled to cross the narrow structure.  The retreat degenerated into a rout, and Forrest won one of the greatest victories in his career.  Battery E, which had been ordered to hold the crossroads itself at all costs, found itself stranded amidst the advancing Southern attack, deserted by all infantry support—but still firing without letup.  Captain John Fitch, commanding the battery in this battle, describes the scene amid the tangled underbrush and forest: "I could not see the enemy, but judged from their firing that they were very near.  I immediately gave them canister with both pieces, as fast as I could load and fire."  Fitch and the rest of Battery E managed to hold their ground until the last of the Federal regiments had passed, though by this time they were being fired on from front, left and rear—including the garden of a plantation house only seventy-five feet away.  Incredibly, Battery E managed to limber its two guns and escape to the nearby creek, where they stormed through the water to the safety of a road on the other side.

Private Rice offered this detailed account of the engagement as he witnessed it from his section: