[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Allegations of war crimes in the 2006 Lebanon War

additional civilian casualties must be attributed to those groups, not to Israel."

Critical of Israel
Robert Fisk, a correspondent for The Independent, said "Hezbollah is killing more Israeli soldiers than civilians and the Israelis are killing far more Lebanese civilians than they are guerrillas."

Mitch Prothero countered both Dershowitz's argument and that of Rivkin, Casey, Fisk, and Cook in an article published by Salon.com and widely cited elsewhere:
"My own reporting and that of other journalists reveals that in fact Hezbollah fighters -- as opposed to the much more numerous Hezbollah political members, and the vastly more numerous Hezbollah sympathizers -- avoid civilians.  Much smarter and better trained than the PLO and Hamas fighters, they know that if they mingle with civilians, they will sooner or later be betrayed by collaborators -- as so many Palestinian militants have been... The targeting of civilian facilities may be the result of liberal definitions within the Israeli military as to what constitutes a Hezbollah target; Hezbollah's civilian wing is Lebanon's second largest employer, and its facilities include hospitals and schools, among other non-military assets. While employees may be on the Hezbollah payroll, they are not often if ever participants in or knowledgeable about Hezbollah military activity."

See also
2006 Qana airstrike
2006 al-Qaa airstrike
2006 Chyah airstrike
2006 Ghaziyeh airstrikes
2006 Marjayoun convoy incident
Allegations of war crimes against Israel

References

External links
 Israeli report — Hezbollah's use of Lebanese civilian areas to launch missiles at Israel.
Warning: Extremely graphic wartime imagery
 Photographs and Video Footage - Hizbullah's exploitation of Lebanese population centers and civilians.
 Photographs and Video Footage - Israel MFA Clips: Visual media, short films, presentations (Hizbullah, conflict, incitement, terror, memorials, Hamas)
 Photographs — Lebanese civilian casualties and infrastructure damage.
 Photographs — Lebanese civilian casualties at the 2006 Qana airstrike.
 Satellite photograph — Haret Hreik neighborhood in the Dahieh district of Beirut, Lebanon, before Israeli airstrikes.
 Detained Hezbollah operatives describe Hezbollah activities within civilian population centers and within civilian structures during the war
 Video footage, part 1
 Video footage, part 2
 Video footage, part 3

2006 Lebanon War
Allegations