[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Helen Bamber

of the Medical Group's work within Amnesty International, the British Medical Association established a Working Party on Torture. She led ground-breaking research into government torture in Chile, the Soviet Union, South Africa and Northern Ireland.

Medical Foundation for Care of Victims of Torture

She resigned from the Executive Council of Amnesty International in 1980 along with other members of the Medical Group. In 1985 they all left Amnesty and set up Medical Foundation for Care of Victims of Torture in rooms at the National Temperance Hospital in London, moving to Kentish Town two years later. As the Medical Group had dealt often with people whose injuries needed specialist physical and psychological help, they set out to provide long-term care to patients. They treated up to 3000 patients a year from over 90 countries, the role of therapist as one of witness –  "to receive, not to recoil" and often "simply sit rocking somebody while they tell their story". In 2001, Comparing her early work with Holocaust survivors in Belsen, she said "I think perhaps then and now – because I am now concerned with present day survivors from over 91 different countries – one is still bearing witness in the same way and that is the first gift you can give somebody who is a survivor". She continued as director until 2002 until stepping down to concentrate on her work with patients.

Helen Bamber Foundation

In 2005, at age 80, in response to changing patterns of global violence and an increasingly hostile political landscape, Bamber set-up the Helen Bamber Foundation to expand her already established rehabilitative work with torture survivors.

The Helen Bamber Foundation (HBF) continues to receive more than 800 referrals each year. HBF provides expert care and support for refugees and asylum seekers who have suffered extreme physical, sexual and psychological violence, abuse and exploitation. Their clients have been subjected to atrocities including state-sponsored torture, religious / political persecution, human trafficking, forced labour, sexual exploitation, and gender-based violence. As a result of their experiences, survivors have multiple and complex needs including: acute psychological health conditions, severe physical injuries and medical conditions, extreme vulnerability to further exploitation, risk of further persecution, homelessness, destitution and intense loneliness. Its specialist team of therapists, doctors and legal experts hold an international reputation for providing therapeutic care, medical consultation, legal protection and practical support to refugees and asylum seekers who have experienced human rights violations.

Retirement
In 2013, it was recognised that she would have to step back from the day-to-day running of the Foundation and Bamber assumed the new role of Director Emeritus (having previously been Clinical Director) of the Foundation. She died in August 2014 in London at the age of 89 and was buried on the eastern side of Highgate Cemetery.

Awards and honours
1993: European Woman of Achievement
1997: OBE
1998: Lifetime's Achievement in Human Rights
2006: Beacon Fellowship Prize
2008: Jewish Care's Woman of Distinction 
2009: Cannes Film Festival honoured the Helen Bamber Foundation advertising campaign, directed by Harold Monfils.
2009: Eileen Skellern Lifetime Achievement Award
2009: The Times/Sternberg Active Life Award 
2009: Dag Hammarskjold Inspiration Award
2013: Inspiration Awards for Women – Human Rights Award

Honorary degrees
 University of Hull
 Oxford University
 University of Dundee
 University of Glasgow
 University of Ulster
 Kingston University
 The Open University
 Oxford Brookes University
 University of Essex

References

Further reading
 Belton, Neil (1999), The Good Listener: Helen Bamber, a Life Against Cruelty. Pantheon Books.

External links
 The Helen Bamber Foundation
 Radio 4 profile
 BBC news interview and audio file, 25 January, 2001: Bearing witness to the Holocaust
 Guardian Interview with Bamber; 11 March 2000: Small Wonder
 Desert Island Discs appearance  (2 May 1999)

1925 births
2014 deaths
Burials at Highgate Cemetery
Alumni of the London School of Economics
Alumni of the University of Essex
Amnesty International people
British human rights activists
Women human rights activists
British Jews
British psychotherapists
British women psychiatrists
Campaign Against Psychiatric Abuse
Jewish psychiatrists
Officers of the Order of the British Empire