[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Archaeological looting in Iraq

ooting in the aftermath of the war. As 2002 came to an end the media and government were only broadcasting the good done by the troops in not destroying cultural heritage themselves but not on the looting done by people in Iraq and the Americans duty to protect the antiquities.

Large scale looting 

When the looting of the National Iraq Museum became known, experts from around the globe started planning to remedy the situation. McGuire Gibson, one of the leading archaeologists and experts on Mesopotamia explained to the Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance (ORHA) that the looted museum artifacts were only a small part of what archaeological digs around the country held. Perhaps 25 thousand of an estimated half million sites were registered. ORHA had no resources to address this problem. Gibson had suggested helicopter surveys to determine the scale of looted sites. By April 24, 2003, looting had taken place in Umma, Umm al-Hafriyat, Umm al-Aqarib, Bismaya, Larsa, and Bad-tibira, most of were unguarded. Most looting was by workers once employed by the now disbanded State Board of Antiquities and Heritage. A local tribe was guarding the World Heritage Site of Hatra although others were unsupervised.

By May 2003, international work began on the already looted museum but not on other sites. The US military conducted a raid in May on Umma where they found hundreds of trenches with many looters all over the site. On May 7, the Bush Administration replaced Gen. Jay Garner with L. Paul Bremer who was given more power and banned high-ranking Ba'ath Party members from government jobs and disbanded the remains of the Iraqi army. Any guards at archeological sites were unpaid for months and they were not allowed to carry guns. Now, instead of dealing with civilian looters, these unarmed guards were dealing with large mobs of armed people.

At the end of May 2003, it finally became clear how badly the sites were looted when a trip sponsored by National Geographic went out to assess the damage. There was a northern and southern team to assess the post-conflict damage by land. They found the famous sites such as Babylon, Hatra, Nimrud and Ur were under US military control. Lesser known sites were completely unguarded and the responsible Civil Affairs teams did not even know where they were. Every place the National Geographic team saw, except one that was guarded by barbed wire, had been damaged.

Gibson was part of the northern National Geographic team and he sent  a report to the White House science advisor John Marburger. Other archeological experts in both the US and Britain were waiting for invitations to go to Iraq and help. After Gibson's report they were given invitations to create a team in Iraq.

Early July 2003, UNESCO revealed that looting was still happening at sites across the country. Other military services such as Japanese and Dutch troops offered assistance but were ignored. On July 8, a new security guard force known as the Iraqi Facility Protection Service (FPS) was established to protect sites all around the country in co-operation with the US military. A week later, the State Department announced it was forming a group to assist in the rebuilding of Iraq's cultural heritage.

These announcements had no effect on the looting and illegal export of artifacts. McGuire Gibson on September 11, 2003, wrote  to a military geographer, "The continuing destruction of sites all over southern Iraq and the theft of thousands of artifacts every week, with no visible effort on part of the US authorities, makes the question of ethical behaviour by museums pointless. Your unit of the Pentagon is capable of demonstrating the location and expansion of illegal digging. Are you at least doing that much?"

The looting of artefacts in Iraq had been on the rise during the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to the pandemic, few tourists or foreign archaeologists visited historical sites. As a result, many of these areas were left unguarded.