[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Blue Shield International

es, other emergency responders, and those involved in preventing the illicit trafficking of looted objects);
 promote community engagement with and participation in protecting cultural property (CP);
 encourage co-operation with, and between, other relevant entities involved in emergency situations.

The work of the Blue Shield is underpinned by international law – in particular, the 1954 Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict and its two Protocols of 1954 and 1999, which are considered to be part of international humanitarian law (IHL). IHL, also known as the Law of War or Law of Armed Conflict, is a set of rules which seek, for humanitarian reasons, to limit the effects of armed conflict on people and property. This primary context is also informed by a number of other international legal instruments, by the international cultural protection agenda as set by the UN and UNESCO, and by international initiatives regarding environmental disaster such as the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. Although the 1954 Hague Convention and its two Protocols refer to cultural property, recognising the developments in our understanding of culture across the world, and the different ways it manifests, the Blue Shield deals with the broader concept of cultural heritage.

Blue Shield's mission and goals are delivered through six proactive areas of activity. With respect to cultural property protection (CPP) in the event of armed conflict and natural/human-made disasters, the Blue Shield works in the areas of:

 Proactive protection and risk preparedness;
 Emergency response;
 Stabilisation, post-disaster recovery, and long-term/ongoing support activities;
 Legal compliance, policy, and their implementation;
 Capacity building activities, and education and training in support of the Blue Shield's Areas of Activity;
 Co-ordination – of Blue Shield members and with partner organisations.

The Blue Shield realises these Areas of Activity in the following national and international contexts:

 Contributing the development and delivery of plans and actions for proactive planning, emergency response, stabilisation, post-disaster recovery, and long-term/ongoing support activities at the national and international level, coordinating support to affected national committees from the international community as requested.
 Promoting and developing understanding of the international laws which underpin the Blue Shield's work
 Contributing to the development of policies in relation to national and international cultural protection agendas, and promoting their implementation.
 Developing policy for the Blue Shield, and interpreting and implementing it at the national level. BSI recognises that its work must be interpreted in a national context, taking account of national legislation and policy.
 Working with partners to support capacity building activities and develop and deliver education and training materials and courses in support of the Blue Shield's Areas of Activity.
 Co-ordinating the work of the Blue Shield national committees, and national / international partners. Blue Shield does not work in isolation. International partners include: UNESCO, ICA, ICOM, ICOMOS, IFLA and other international heritage organisations; NATO and other multi-national forces; and other international organisations involved in cultural property protection. National partners include: government departments, national ministries of defence, emergency response units, and other national organisations involved in CPP, such as national committees or branches of ICA, ICOM, ICOMOS, IFLA, and the National Commissions of UNESCO.

The Blue Shield formally adopted the Four Tier Approach to the protection of cultural property in the event of armed conflict at its 2017 General Assembly, describing the four times when heritage professionals aim to work with armed forces to protect cultural property.

Blue Shield International is committed to providing training in cultural property protection for members of armed forces around the world, and lists NATO amongst its partners. In addition to their work with NATO, in 2017-2018, they contributed to training for national armed forces in Georgia, peacekeeping forces deployed by Fiji, and ran exercises at an international workshop in Austria.

Logo