[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Colorado Territory in the American Civil War

d Creek Massacre against a village of peaceful Cheyennes. The commander of the regiment, Colonel John Chivington, was accused of perpetrating a massacre but many in the territory, including the territorial legislature, came to his defense and consequently Chivington was never court–martialed.

Notes

References
 History of Colorado. Wilbur Fisk Stone, Editor, Volume I, Chicago, S. J. Clarke Publishing Company, 1918.
 Colton, Ray C. The Civil War in the Western Territories: Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah. University of Oklahoma Press, 1959.
 Josephy Jr., Alvin M. The Civil War in the American West. Alfred A. Knope, 1991. .
 Smith, Duane A. The Birth of Colorado: A Civil War Perspective. University of Oklahoma Press, 1989. .
 Walker, Johnny. South Park, Colorado Gold Prospecting & The Reynolds Gang. Colorado Adventure Guide, Heritage and History.

Further reading
 Adams, Blanche V., "The Second Colorado Cavalry in the Civil War," Colorado Magazine, VII, 3, May 1931.
 Carey, Raymond G., "Colonel Chivington, Brigadier General Connor, and Sand Creek," Denver Posse of the Westerners 1960 Brand Book. Boulder: The Johnson Publishing Company, 1961; "The Bloodless Third' Regiment, Colorado Volunteer Cavalry," Colorado Magazine, Vol. 38 No. 4, October 1961.
 Colton, Ray C., The Civil War in the Western Territories. Norman: The University of Oklahoma Press, 1959.
 Hollister, Ovando J., History of the First Regiment of Colorado Volunteers, Denver: Thomas Gibson & Co., 1863. Reprint: Colorado Volunteers in New Mexico, 1862. Chicago: R. R. Donnelley & Sons Co., The Lakeside Press, 1962.
 Nankivell, Major John H., History of the Military Organizations of the State of Colorado. Denver: The W.H. Kistler Stationery Co., 1935.
 Smith, Duane A., The Birth of Colorado: A Civil War Perspective. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1989.
 U. S. War Department. The War of the Rebellion. A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies. Four series, 128 vols. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.
 Whitford, William C., Colorado Volunteers in the Civil War. Denver: Colorado State Historical Society, 1909; Golden, Colorado: Pruett Press, 1963. Colorado in the New Mexico Campaign, 1906
 Williams, Mrs. Ellen. Three Years and a Half in the Army; or, History of the Second Colorados. New York: Fowler & Wells Company, 1885.

External links
 National Park Service map of Civil War sites in Colorado
 Colorado state website for the Civil War
 Colorado Division, Sons of Confederate Veterans
 Dan Ellis Connor, Colorado Confederate
 Account of Reynolds' gang and stage robberies in South Park
 Reenacting group of Company A, 2nd Colorado Infantry

 
American Civil War
American Civil War
American Civil War by state