[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

Fulton, February 27, 2018, banned in all restaurants, but not bars or other enclosed workplaces
Tifton, October 18, 2004, banned in all restaurants, but not bars or all other enclosed workplaces
Valdosta, February 16, 2004, banned in all enclosed workplaces, including restaurants but exempting bars

Guam
Territory-wide ban on smoking in restaurants only: On February 6, 2007, the Natasha Protection Act went into effect after the Supreme Court of Guam lifted an injunction on it, banning smoking in all restaurants, as well as in bars that double as restaurants between 4:00 am and 10:00 pm; the ban does not cover either stand-alone bars or workplaces in general. In 2009, a new act went into effect, additionally banning smoking within 20 feet of public buildings.

Hawaii
Statewide smoking ban: On November 16, 2006, smoking was banned statewide in all enclosed or partially enclosed workplaces in Hawaii, including the indoor and outdoor portions of all bars and restaurants. The law exempts private residences not used as a healthcare or daycare facility, hotel/motel rooms designated as smoking rooms, retail tobacco stores, designated rooms in nursing homes, outdoor places of employment not part of bars or restaurants, any place where smoking is part of a production being filmed, and state correctional facilities. Smoking is prohibited within  of the entrance/exit of a place where the law prohibits smoking indoors. Fines range from $50 for a person caught smoking in violation of the law, to between $100 and $500 for an establishment caught allowing smoking in violation of the law. Counties may regulate smoking more strictly than the state.
Hawaii County, March 13, 2008, banned in public recreational areas, such as parks and beaches.

Idaho
Statewide ban excluding bars and some workplaces: On July 1, 2004, the Clean Indoor Air Act went into effect, banning smoking statewide in all enclosed public places, except in bars, retail tobacco stores, private clubs when used by members or their guests/families, designated smoking rooms in hotels/motels, facilities rented/leased for private functions, theatrical productions, areas of owner-operated businesses with no employees besides the owners not generally open to the public, offices (other than childcare facilities) within private homes, veterans homes, bowling alleys (until July 2007), and designated breakrooms in businesses with 5 or fewer employees (as long as they are separate from work areas and minors are not allowed). Local governments may regulate smoking more strictly than the state.
Boise, January 2, 2012, banned in all enclosed workplaces, including bars and private clubs, as well as in any public outdoor space accessible to children and in all spaces owned by the public, including parks.
Moscow, August 4, 2009, banned in bars and private clubs, but not other workplaces.
Ketchum, April 15, 2013, banned in a long list of areas that include all bars, city-owned facilities, parks, and indoor public places and places of employment, including hotel and motel rooms.

Illinois

Statewide smoking ban: On January 1, 2008, the Smoke Free Illinois Act went into effect, banning smoking in all enclosed workplaces, including bars, restaurants, and casinos, and within  of such places; exempts certain retail tobacco stores, private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes occupied exclusively by smokers, enclosed and semi-enclosed temporary structures attached or adjacent to bars and restaurants, no more than 25% of designated smoking rooms in hotels/motels on the same floor, and private residences. Smoking is prohibited in private residences when defined as a place of employment such as when used for child care or foster care. Local governments may regulate smoking more strictly than the state.

Chicago has had its own Clean Indoor Air Ordinance since 1988. The Chicago Clean Indoor Air Act was updated to mention e-cigarettes in 2014, making it the first major U.S. city to legislate e-cigarette use. The Chicago Park District's Board of Commissioners has discussed banning all forms of smoking in Chicago parks, beaches, play lots and other facilities, but there is not yet a municipal ordinance.