[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# MS Ambience

The MS Ambience is a cruise ship operated by Ambassador Cruise Line. The vessel was delivered to Princess Cruises in 1991 by the Fincantieri shipyard in Monfalcone, Italy as Regal Princess, sailing on their North American routes. After 2000 she was deployed on the company's Australian routes, then later in the Mediterranean and Baltic seas.

In 2007 Regal Princess was transferred to P&O Cruises Australia, underwent major refurbishment, and was renamed Pacific Dawn, operating from Australia to South Pacific destinations. Her renaming coincided with P&O's 75th anniversary in Australia. It was intended that the ship would be retired in 2020, sold to Cruise & Maritime Voyages (CMV) and renamed Amy Johnson, but CMV had financial difficulties and went into administration in 2020, affected by the 2020 Covid pandemic.

Later in 2020 Pacific Dawn was sold to Ocean Builders Central, and renamed Satoshi. They intended her to become a floating residence in the Gulf of Panama; however, after failing to obtain insurance for the proposed operation, she was resold in 2021 for operation by Ambassador Cruise Line, entering service as Ambience in 2022.

Concept and construction
Sitmar Cruises had started an ambitious new building programme for the North American cruise market in 1985. Following an abortive attempt to order ships from the Italy-based Fincantieri, the company had placed an order for one ship, , with the Chantiers de l'Atlantique shipyard in France. Sitmar were planning to order additional vessels however, and the Italian government—owners of Fincantieri—were eager to have these ships built by an Italian shipyard. Following negotiations between Sitmar and Fincantieri, the former placed an order for two  cruise ships with the latter, to be delivered in 1990 and 1991. Although the ships maintained the same basic layout of Sitmar Fairmajesty, their exteriors were redesigned by the Italian architect Renzo Piano. The distinctive curved forwards superstructure of the ship was inspired by the dolphin.

In 1988, while the two new ships ordered from Fincantieri were in the early stages of construction, Sitmar Cruises was sold to P&O Group and the three Sitmar ships under construction were transferred to the fleet of P&O's subsidiary Princess Cruises. The second of the ships under construction at Fincantieri was launched from drydock on 29 March 1990 and named Regal Princess. Following successful sea trials on 5 June 1991 Regal Princess was delivered on 20 July 1991 to Astamar, a subsidiary of P&O Group.

Service history

1991–2007: Regal Princess

Following delivery, Regal Princess sailed to New York City where she was officially named by the former UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher on 8 August 1991. Subsequently, Regal Princess entered service by joining her sister ship Crown Princess in cruising out of Fort Lauderdale to the Caribbean during the northern hemisphere winter, transferring to the Alaskan trade for the summer months. In 1992 the ownership of the vessel was transferred from Astamar to Princess Cruises and she was transferred from the Italian registry to Liberian flag.

In 2000 Regal Princess received a major refurbishment.  From the same year until 2003, she spent the southern hemisphere summer months cruising out of Sydney, taking over Princess Cruises' Australian itineraries following the transfer of another former Sitmar ship, the Sky Princess, to P&O Cruises Australia as .

For the 2003 northern hemisphere summer season, Regal Princess was repositioned for cruises on the Mediterranean Sea and Baltic Sea. While on a repositioning cruise from Copenhagen to New York in August 2003, a number of passengers and crew on board Regal Princess were infected by the Norovirus. The number of infected people on board eventually rose to 217, and the decision was made for the ship to drop planned calls in Greenland and Newfoundland in favour of sailing directly to New York. By the time the ship arrived in New York on 2 September 2003, one day ahead of schedule, only four people on board were still suffering from the virus. The ship was again disinfected and was able to depart on her next scheduled cruise without problems.

In 2004 Regal Princess was planned to join her sister ship  (ex-Crown Princess) in the fleet of A'Rosa Cruises, P&O Cruises' brand aimed at the German market, but the transfer was cancelled following the sale of A'Rosa Cruises to Arkona in 2003. In late 2006 Regal Princess was due to transfer to the fleet of Ocean Village, but this too was cancelled. Instead, Regal Princess was transferred to the fleet of P&O Cruises Australia in late 2007.

2007–2020: Pacific Dawn