[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Omicron Delta Kappa

Omicron Delta Kappa (), also known as The Circle and ODK, is a prestigious honor society located in the United States with chapters at more than 300 college campuses. It was founded December 3, 1914, at Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia, by 15 student and faculty leaders. The society recognizes achievement in five areas: scholarship; athletics; campus and community service, social or religious activities, and campus government; journalism, speech and the mass media; and creative and performing arts. Some circles of ΟΔΚ are quasi-secret, in that newly selected members remain undisclosed for some time.

Membership in the Omicron Delta Kappa Society is regarded as a high honor in the tradition of Phi Kappa Phi, Phi Beta Kappa and Tau Beta Pi.  To be selected as a member of ΟΔΚ, one must stand among the top 35 percent of all students at that particular institution and hold a leadership role in one of the society's five areas of recognition.

History

Founding
On December 3, 1914, the Omicron Delta Kappa Society was founded by fifteen men who gathered in a small office on the third floor of Reid Hall on the campus of Washington and Lee University. J.  Carl Fisher first introduced the idea of creating such a society to a close friend, Rupert Latture.  The two soon included mutual friend William Brown in the discussion, and thus these three are referred to as the principal founders of the society.  Together with three faculty members, including the president of the University and the dean of Engineering, they gradually selected nine others to join them. The complete list of the fifteen founders is as follows.

James Edwin Bear, ΒΘΠ, editor of the student magazine
William Moseley Brown, ΔΚΕ, ΦΒΚ, debater, a president of the YMCA
Carl Shaffer Davidson, ΚΣ, student instructor in civil engineering
Edward Parks Davis, ΚΣ, athlete
Edward A. Donahue, ΦΚΣ, captain of football and baseball
De la Warr Benjamin Easter, PhD, ΚΣ, ΦΒΚ, professor, and the founding president of ΟΔΚ
James Carl Fisher, business manager of the student magazine, founder of the campus radio station
Philip Pendleton Gibson, ΠΚΑ, president of student government, editor of the student newspaper
Thomas McPheeters Glasgow, ΦΔΘ, orator, athlete
David Carlisle Humphreys, FIJI, professor and dean of the School of Applied Science
Rupert Nelson Latture, ΔΥ, ΦΒΚ, a president of the YMCA
John Eppes Martin, ΑΧΡ, business manager of the yearbook
William Caulfield Raftery, ΦΚΣ, athlete
John Purver Richardson Jr., ΣΧ, instructor in biology
Henry Louis Smith, PhD, ΦΔΘ, ΦΒΚ, president of Washington and Lee University

All 15 men were prominent leaders on campus, and they rallied around the idea that all-around leadership in college should be recognized, that representative men in all phases of college life should cooperate in worthwhile endeavors, and that outstanding students and faculty should affiliate in the spirit of mutual interest and understanding. The founders intended that ΟΔΚ not be yet another society in which members would simply earn a societal Key and then be done.  Members of ΟΔΚ would remain active as leaders, in upholding spiritual and moral values, and in rendering service to the campus and community.

The founders decided that The Circle would be kept a complete secret until keys could be designed and produced. The keys arrived shortly  past the winter holiday, and each man first wore his key on the 15th of January in 1915. The student newspaper, the Ring-Tum Phi, broke the news in the issue dated January 12, 1915, of a new society to be known as "The Circle," with the secret significance of its three Greek letters known only to its members.

Purpose of the Society
The Purpose of the Society is threefold:
 First, to recognize those who have attained a high standard of efficiency in collegiate activities and to inspire others to strive for conspicuous attainments along similar lines;
 Second, to bring together the most representative students in all phases of collegiate life and thus to create an organization which will help to mold the sentiment of the institution on questions of local and intercollegiate interest;
 Third, to bring together members of the faculty and student body of the institution, as well as other Omicron Delta Kappa members, in the spirit of mutual interest and understanding.