[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 26]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

and cultural rituals. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the state. As noted above, North Dakota is one of only six states that ban smoking in tobacco stores and is one of only four that prohibit hotels and motels from designating a certain percentage of rooms for smoking.

Northern Mariana Islands
Partial territory-wide smoking ban. Since September 29, 2009, smoking has been banned for most workplaces and restaurants, but not bars.

Ohio
Statewide smoking ban: On December 7, 2006, after passage by Ohio voters on November 7, 2006, Chapter 3794 (titled "Smoking Ban") of the Ohio Revised Code went into effect, banning smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces in Ohio, including bars and restaurants. The law exempts (1) private residences except when being used as a business when employees other than the owner are present, (2) designated hotel/motel smoking rooms, (3) family-owned and operated businesses not open to the public where all employees are related to the owner, (4) designated smoking areas in nursing homes, (5) retail tobacco stores, (6) outdoor patios, (7) private clubs with no employees. The law is enforced by the Ohio Department of Health, which began enforcement on May 3, 2007. A business may be fined up to $2,500 and individuals $100 for violation of the ban. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the state.
 North Royalton, April 16, 2008, passed Ordinance 08-69 banning smoking in public outdoor places owned by the city. Smoking areas may be designated at the mayor's discretion.
 Oberlin, June 2010, banned smoking and the use of smokeless tobacco in city parks.

Oklahoma
No statewide smoking ban. Instead, Oklahoma's statewide smoking law prohibits smoking in any indoor workplaces – including restaurants and hotels – unless a separate ventilation system under negative pressure is installed for ventilating the smoking area, but permits smoking without limitation in bars, private clubs, bingo halls, retail tobacco stores, small family-owned workplaces, workplaces occupied exclusively by smokers, veterans' halls, and designated employee smoking areas. The Oklahoma law expressly preempts local governments from enacting any local smoking regulations that are not exactly the same as the state law.

Oregon

Statewide smoking ban: Effective January 1, 2009, after being signed into law on June 26, 2007, the 1981 Oregon Indoor Clean Air Act (as previously amended in 2001) was amended to ban smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces in Oregon, including bars and restaurants, as well as within  of the entrances, exits, open windows, or intake vents of such places. The Act exempts (1) private residences except when serving as a childcare or adult care facility, (2) designated hotel/motel smoking rooms, (3) spaces designated for traditional American Indian religious and cultural ceremonies, (4) retail tobacco shops, and (5) cigar bars. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the Act; and the Oregon Court of Appeals reiterated this in 2000. Effective January 1, 2014, smoking is banned in vehicles with passengers under 18 inside.

Pennsylvania
 Statewide smoking ban excluding some bars. Effective September 11, 2008, after being signed into law by Governor Ed Rendell on June 13, 2008, Pennsylvania's 1988 Clean Indoor Air Act was amended to ban smoking statewide in all restaurants and other enclosed workplaces in Pennsylvania, except as exempted. The Act exempts (1) eating/drinking establishments where 20% or less of sales come from food AND persons under 18 are not allowed, (2) private homes and vehicles, except those used as a child daycare or adult care facility, (3) designated hotel/motel smoking rooms, (4) full service truck stops, (5) retail tobacco shops, (6) workplaces of tobacco manufacturers and wholesalers, (7) nursing homes, (8) designated smoking areas in day treatment facilities, psychiatric facilities, and healthcare facilities, (9) private clubs when public events are not being held, including volunteer fire, ambulance, and rescue stations, (10) tobacco-related fundraisers, (11) places rented for tobacco exhibitions, (12) cigar bars, (13) 25% of a casino gaming floor, and (14) outdoor areas. Local governments except Philadelphia are preempted from regulating smoking more stringently than the Act. However, exempt drinking establishments, cigar bars, and such must apply for an exemption with documentation and be approved before allowing smoking. As a result, most bars are not exempt and smoking is banned in most bars and restaurants in Pennsylvania and almost all bars in Philadelphia by local ordinance. From 2009 to 2019, the number of exempt drinking establishments in the state dropped from 2,900 to 1,200.