[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Malchiel Gruenwald

of Illegal Immigration. Shmuel Katzenelson joined the Irgun at the age of 15, and was nicknamed Tamir ("tall and straight" in Hebrew), a name he later adopted legally. Tamir had been the Irgun's Chief of Intelligence in Jerusalem, and Gruenwald's daughter Rina had been under his command as a nurse.

The trial, which government lawyers expected to last four days, lasted for two years, and resulted in 1955 in an acquittal of Gruenwald and a statement from the judge that Kastner had "sold his soul to the devil". The basis of the allegation and the judge's statement was that Kastner had collaborated with SS officer , and later Adolf Eichmann, by betraying the Hungarian Jewish masses in return for the rescue of a few hundred Jewish VIPs. The judge also condemned Kastner because after the war, he had given a positive affidavit on behalf of another SS officer, Kurt Becher, which convinced the Nuremberg authorities not to prosecute Becher for war crimes. The Supreme Court overturned the collaboration finding in 1958, but by then Kastner had already been assassinated.

References

Bibliography
 "On Trial",Time magazine, Foreign News, 11 July 1955.
Bauer, Yehuda. Jews for Sale: Nazi-Jewish Negotiations, 1933-1945, Yale University Press, 1994. 
Hecht, Ben. Perfidy, Milah Press, first published in 1961; this edition 1999. 
Maoz, Asher. Historical Adjudication: Courts of Law, Commissions of Inquiry, and "Historical Truth", Law and History Review, University of Illinois Press, Vol. 18. No. 3, Fall 2000.
Segev, Tom. The Seventh Million: Israelis and the Holocaust, New York: Henry Holt (Owl Books edition), 2000, .
Bogdanor, Paul. Kasztner's Crime, Oxfordshire: Routledge (Jewish Studies Series), 2016. .

Further reading 
 Bilsky, Leora.  Judging Evil in the Trial of Kastner, Law and History Review, University of Illinois Press, Vol 19, No. 1, Spring 2001.
 Hilberg, Raul. The Destruction of the European Jews, first published in 1961, this edition Yale University Press, 2003. 

Blood for goods
Hungarian Jews
Israeli people of Hungarian-Jewish descent
Zionists
20th-century Israeli businesspeople
Israeli journalists
1881 births
Place of birth missing
Place of death missing
1958 deaths
Israeli philatelists
20th-century journalists
Israeli murder victims
Burials at Har HaMenuchot