[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 24]
# List of coups and coup attempts

oung military officers, led by Captain Valentine Strasser, took control of the government on 29 April. They deposed President Joseph Saidu Momoh and Strasser took control of the government.
1992 Sudanese coup attempt was led by Colonel Ahmed Khaled who was a sympathiser of the Sudanese Ba'ath Party.

1993
1993 Russian constitutional crisis (also known as the 1993 October Coup, Black October, the Shooting of the White House or Ukase 1400): President Boris Yeltsin successfully launched a self-coup, illegally dissolving the Russian parliament.
1993 Guatemalan constitutional crisis: President Jorge Serrano Elías unsuccessfully launched a self-coup, illegally suspending the constitution and dissolving Congress and the Supreme Court. Facing protests and international pressure, Serrano resigned the presidency and fled the country. He was briefly replaced by Vice President Gustavo Adolfo Espina Salguero, but after Espina was found by the Supreme Court to have been involved in the coup, Congress replaced him with Ramiro de León Carpio.
1993 Azerbaijani coup d'état: On 1 September, militia led by military commander Surat Huseynov overthrew President Abulfaz Elchibey and brought Heydar Aliyev to power.

1994
1994 Bophuthatswana crisis: Lucas Mangope was overthrown by the South African Defence Force (SADF).
1994 Gambian coup d'état: A group of soldiers led by Lieutenant Yahya Jammeh seized power in a bloodless coup on 22 July, ousting Dawda Jawara, who had been President of the Gambia since its independence in 1970.

1995
1995 Azerbaijani coup d'état attempt (also known as the Turkish coup in Baku): members of the Azerbaijani military, led by Colonel Rovshan Javado, aimed to take control of the country from president Heydar Aliyev and reinstall former president Abulfaz Elchibey. The coup was foiled when the Turkish President Süleyman Demirel became aware of elements in Turkey supporting the plot, and called Aliyev to warn him. On 17 March, units of the Azerbaijani Armed Forces surrounded the insurgents' camp and assaulted it, killing Colonel Javadov.
1995 Qatari coup d'état: Crown Prince Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani who, with the support of the ruling Al Thani family, took control of the country while his father, Emir Khalifa bin Hamad Al Thani, was away.

1996
1996 Qatari coup d'état attempt: Many members of the Al Thani family who were still allies of Khalifa bin Hamad Al Thani, who had been deposed in a coup the prior year, organized a coup to overthrow Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani. However, the coup was discovered and thwarted.
1996 Burundian coup d'état: In the midst of the Burundi Civil War, former president Pierre Buyoya deposed President Sylvestre Ntibantunganya on 25 July.
1996 Iraqi coup d'état attempt: A coup attempt against President Saddam Hussein failed.

1997
1997 Turkish military memorandum (also known as the Post-modern coup): Military decisions issued in a National Security Council meeting on 28 February have been described as a coup. Although the parliament was not dissolved, the military pressure resulted in the resignation of Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan.
1997 Cambodian coup d'état: Co-premier Hun Sen ousted the other co-premier, Norodom Ranariddh.

1998
May 1998 riots of Indonesia: Mass violence, demonstrations, and civil unrest throughout Indonesia, triggered by economic problems including food shortages and mass unemployment, eventually led to the resignation of President Suharto and the fall of the New Order.

1999
1999 Tashkent bombings: In addition to terrorist attacks in different parts of the capital of Uzbekistan, there was an attempt to assassinate Islam Karimov and an explosion at the Cabinet of Ministers building before the government meeting. Some, including in the government of Uzbekistan, called it an attempted coup by Islamist forces. 
1999 Pakistani coup d'état: In a bloodless coup, military staff under Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee General Pervez Musharraf seized control of the civilian government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on 12 October. Musharraf declared a state of emergency and imposed martial law. Sharif was arrested and later exiled.
1999 Ivorian coup d'état: A group of soldiers led by Tuo Fozié rebelled on 23 December, overthrowing President Henri Konan Bédié.

2000–2009