[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry Harnden

mbushes during the march.

By the end of September, the regiment was racked with disease, leaving 400 men sick and unable to travel at Cape Girardeau, Missouri.  Captain Harnden was then acting as commander of the regiment, with only 2 other officers and 60 men fit for duty during much of that Fall.

In the Spring of 1863, Confederate general John S. Marmaduke began his expedition against Union forces in southeast Missouri.  The 1st Wisconsin Cavalry were among the defenders at the Battle of Cape Girardeau, holding out until relieved by Union reinforcements, then leading the pursuit of the enemy.

Chickamauga & Chattanooga (SummerWinter 1863)

In April, they were attached to the Army of the Cumberland and ordered to report to Nashville, Tennessee, arriving in early May.  They were assigned to the Cavalry wing of the Army of the Cumberland during their operations against Braxton Bragg in middle Tennessee.  In September, the regiment participated in the fighting at the Battle of Chickamauga, operating on the Union right flank.  They skirmished with the enemy cavalry over the course of several days until ordered to withdraw to Chattanooga after the disastrous Union defeat.

After the retreat, Bragg's army besieged the Union forces at Chattanooga, hoping to starve them into surrender. Associated with this plan, Confederate forces raided and destroyed Union supplies north of Chattanooga.  The 1st Wisconsin Cavalry was the lead regiment sent out to check the rebels north of the city and keep the supply lines open.  They pursued the Confederate raiders and overtook their rear guard, claiming 11 Confederate prisoners and liberated a number of Union prisoners.  They then continued the pursuit until engaged in a pitched fight.  They prevailed, killing 50 and taking another 42 prisoners, including the staff of Confederate general Joseph Wheeler—who narrowly escaped.

After a few days rest, they joined the general pursuit of the rebel cavalry into Alabama, skirmishing for the next three months along the Tennessee–Alabama border associated with the Chattanooga campaign.  They wintered in southeast Tennessee, and received 354 new recruits in March 1864.

Atlanta campaign (SpringFall 1864)
On May 3, 1864, the 1st Wisconsin Cavalry set off with the advance division on Sherman's Atlanta campaign, engaging in sharp skirmishing through northern Georgia.  At the Battle of Rocky Face Ridge, their colonel, Oscar Hugh La Grange, was captured by the enemy and several other officers were wounded.  After the Battle of Resaca, Lt. Colonel Torrey went out sick and Major Paine was wounded, leaving Captain Harnden again in command of the regiment.  Just a few days later, however, in the Battle of New Hope Church, Harnden led a charge against Confederate cavalry at Burnt Hickory and was also severely wounded when a pistol shot shattered his right arm.  Through the next month, the regiment suffered further casualties, as both Lt. Colonel Torrey and Major Paine were killed.

Wilson's Alabama campaign (Spring 1865)

Harnden was sent to a hospital in the north, and during this time was promoted to major, effective back to May 24, 1864.  He spent most of the remainder of 1864 recuperating, but returned to his regiment around the time of the Battle of Nashville, and joined General James H. Wilson's pursuit of the Confederate forces under John Bell Hood into northern Alabama.  During this time, on January 6, 1865, Harnden was promoted to lieutenant colonel and took command of the regiment, as Colonel La Grange was then in command of the brigade.

During the Battle of West Point, in which Colonel La Grange was in overall command of the Union force, Harnden led the detachment of Kentucky, Indiana, and Wisconsin cavalry which stormed and captured Fort Tyler.  Here, Harnden was wounded again, this time shot in the thigh.  Though he was only briefly disabled here.

Capture of Jefferson Davis (May 1865)

As the Union consolidated control of northern Alabama and Georgia, General Wilson selected Lt. Colonel Harnden to take a detachment of the 1st Wisconsin Cavalry to the east to attempt to cut off the escape of Confederate president Jefferson Davis.  Arriving at Dublin, Georgia, Harnden learned of a wagon train passing through the region which he believed to carry the Confederate president.  He split his command and set off on a rapid pursuit of the train, hunting it through southern Georgia over the next several days.