[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Newman Edwards

Service managed a remarkable feat in disguising the troop and providing it with supplies in its long march. Additionally, they had already managed to negotiate the purchase of hundreds of thousands of acres around Veracruz, Mexico, to which the Shelby and other Confederate army exiles would regroup.

Reportedly, Shelby sank his battle flag in the Rio Grande near present-day Eagle Pass (TX) on the way to Mexico rather than risk the flag falling into the hands of the Federals. The event is depicted in a painting displayed at the Eagle Pass City Hall. The memory of Shelby and his men as "The Undefeated" is used as a distant basis for the 1969 John Wayne-Rock Hudson film by the same name.

In Mexico
Edwards followed Shelby to Mexico. Although he and Shelby's troop and others made it to Mexico, where they offered their swords to Maximilian, the United States government threatened invasion. Additionally, Maximillian was already facing increasing pressure from the Mexican insurrection, which was spearheaded by forces loyal to the legitimate government of Benito Juarez. Not wanting to incur the enmity of the victorious Union, the Emperor denied the troopers entry into his army but did allow them to settle around Veracruz.

With Edwards having obtained a land grant from Maximilian, this enabled Shelby to found the Colony of Carlota. Backed by the publishing and rhetorical skills of Edwards and recent Governor of Louisiana Henry Watkins Allen, thousands of other Confederate soldiers also arrived. Here the ex-Confederates rebuilt their arms and temporarially their fortunes. Allen had received a $10,000 grant from Maximilian to establish a full English language newspaper, "The Mexican Times." He was joined by Edwards who continued the venture after Allen's death from yellow fever. The grant exhausted, Edwards' business skills were insufficient to retain the paper. It was sold to C.B. Barksdale under whom it prospered until suppressed by Porfirio Diaz's supporters after they captured Mexico City. Edwards wrote his first book while in Mexico, "An Unwritten Leaf of the War".

However, as had happened before and later in Mexican history, land sold/granted to foreigners was just as often expropriated. With the overthrow of Maximilian, all of the land was appropriated by the restored republican government of Mexico two years later.

Meanwhile, Reconstruction had resulted in the replacement of the existing secessionist Southern Democrat state governments. Nonetheless, in the intervening two years, the Johnson Administration in Washington D.C. as well as other State government's had granted amnesty to most Confederate leaders. With upheaval in the South, leaders of Southern resistance to Reconstruction begged Shelby, Edwards, and others to return.

As the French withdrew their occupation forces supporting Maximilian in 1866, Shelby returned to Missouri in 1867 and resumed farming. In 1883, Shelby was a critical witness for fellow ex-Confederate Frank James at James' trial.

Reconstruction
Returning to Missouri in 1867, Edwards joined The Republican as a reporter. The following year, he began the Kansas City Times, a staunch Democratic paper in a military ruled state governed by Republican Party officials. Edwards used the paper to champion a return to prominence of former Missouri Confederates, denounced black jurors, "scalawags", and "carpetbaggers", and agitated against military occupation. After the 1869 robbery of the Daviess County Saving Association in Gallatin, Missouri, Edwards met with Jesse and Frank James. In the pages of the Kansas City Times Edwards established the James Brothers as symbols of ex-Confederates "striking back" against perceived corruption, graft, oppression and criminality of military backed Republican rule in Missouri.

On March 28, 1871, Edwards eloped and married a cousin, Mary Virginia Plattenburg, on the Shelby farm.  Her parents objected to their marriage because of their family relationship. The union eventually produced two sons and a daughter.

Edwards remained at the Times until 1873. He then moved to St. Louis to edit The Dispatch. On September 4, 1875 he fought a pistol duel with Col. Emory S. Foster, editor of the St. Louis Journal, who had accused him in print of lying. Neither man was injured.

Edwards left the Dispatch, planning to move to Santa Fe and raise sheep. However, he was persuaded by friends and family to remain in Missouri.