[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ed Fast

nal Code (sex-selective abortion), which would restrict abortion access, making it a criminal offence for a medical practitioner to perform an abortion sought solely on the grounds of the child's genetic sex. Abortion Rights Coalition of Canada describes him as an anti-abortion Member of Parliament.

Conversion therapy 
On June 22, 2021, Fast was one of 63 MPs to vote against Bill C-6, An Act to amend the Criminal Code (conversion therapy), which was passed by majority vote, making certain aspects of conversion therapy a crime, including "causing a child to undergo conversion therapy."

In opposition

42nd Canadian Parliament
Following the Harper government's defeat in 2015, Fast served in the shadow cabinets of Rona Ambrose and Andrew Scheer as the critic to the Minister of Environment and Climate Change.

43rd Canadian Parliament
After being re-elected in 2019, Fast declined reappointment to Scheer's shadow cabinet. Scheer was later removed from leadership and replaced by Erin O'Toole, who on 11 February 2021 appointed Fast as his Finance critic. He replaced Pierre Poilievre who became critic for Jobs and Industry.

44th Canadian Parliament
Fast was for a brief time a member of the Industry and Technology committee, before he was appointed on 28 February 2022 by new interim CPC leader Candice Bergen to the Finance committee. He resigned as Shadow Finance Minister after criticizing Conservative leadership candidate Pierre Poilievre's plan to fire Bank of Canada director Tiff Macklem, if elected.

Personal life 
Ed and his wife Annette have lived in Abbotsford for over 40 years and have four adult daughters and twelve grandchildren. In December 2016, Fast suffered a stroke, but recovered.

Electoral record

References

External links
 Ed Fast official site
 Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada official site

|-

1955 births
Canadian Mennonites
Conservative Party of Canada MPs
Living people
Members of the 28th Canadian Ministry
Members of the House of Commons of Canada from British Columbia
Members of the King's Privy Council for Canada
People from Abbotsford, British Columbia
Politicians from Winnipeg
University of British Columbia alumni
British Columbia municipal councillors
British Columbia school board members
Lawyers in British Columbia
Peter A. Allard School of Law alumni