[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# New Worlds Project

to travel at faster than light speeds safely and has made first contact with a number of alien species. Humanity has united under a single banner, the United Nations governs the Terran Democratic Republic. For almost a century, peace has been administered by the Organisation For Interstellar Peace.

Whilst interstellar peace has been secured, tensions haven't been erased. Indeed, tensions between two major powers: The Gohorn Directorate and the Terran Democratic Republic continue to boil. When the O.I.P. tries to settle a border dispute between the Gohorns and the Humans, it proves unable to resolve differences. War is soon declared.

The O.I.P.'s attempts to stop the spread of the war fail, the Terrans call in their allies the Rosebourg Monarchy further expanding the war so that most of the major powers of the OIP are now engaged. The war has spun out of control and now threatens the sanctity of the Known Galaxy.

As soldiers from a thousand worlds mobilize, peace no longer seems possible – all out war is a reality.

Major powers
The New Worlds Project's setting centers on a number of major powers that are intricately described on the New Worlds Project's website. The Project features biological information about the species governed under those major powers, as well as social information about these species. The Project also details military and government information about the major powers.

The Major Powers of the setting include the Terran Democratic Republic (Humans), the Gohorn Directorate (Gohorns), the Rosebourg Monarchy (Navaks and Avrans), and the multi-species Luna Minoris Confederacy of Non-Aligned Worlds.

Other features
The New Worlds Project's setting other features are grouped around the website's Omnipedia. Within the Omnipedia is information about the setting's day-to-day life realities, technical briefings on the vehicles and starships that exist within the setting, as well as definitions of all kinds of terms, organisations, etc.

Role-playing game
The New Worlds Project's setting is used as the basis of a play-by-post role-playing game. It is this role-playing game that opened to the public in August 2003.

The role-playing game counts more than 200 registered users. The setting is used as the backdrop for on-going cooperative writings that feature players' characters struggling to survive combat missions (whether in space or on the ground). Other players have also tried to further expand the setting using civilian characters.

External relations
The New Worlds Project maintained an office of external relations to govern its relations with other role-playing games.

Under this aegis, the New Worlds Project maintained regular contacts with its partner games via the DragonMuseNetwork (now defunct), a premium partnership of which it was a member. Through the Network it was partnered with Blue Horizon, a New Worlds offshoot, and Tazlure (closed 22 January 2009), an original fantasy role-playing game. New Worlds also maintained a small list of affiliate sites.

New Worlds has had tumultuous relations with the Simming League, a Star Trek role-playing game network. Members of the New Worlds Project voted to withdraw its membership from the League in response to dissatisfaction with the organization. Despite this, in 2004 the League awarded to the project its Internet Technology Prize for unique applications of content management systems.

Creative writing project
The Creative Writing Project also uses the setting as the basis for its works. The creative writing project uses the settings in order to create compatible storylines. Writers can also elect to co-write novels together.

At the time of writing the Creative Writing Project featured two completed full-length novels, and three novels in production. A number of finished role-playing storylines were also billed to become full-length novels.

Registered non-profit corporation
Since Season II, the New Worlds Project's administration team has been working to implement a strategy plan released by Kim Leonard Smouter. The strategy plan hoped to capitalise on New Worlds Project's potential and further advance the unique approach of the administration.

With guidance from Glenn David Gregory, the co-founders drafted by-laws for the New Worlds Project non-profit corporation. These were approved by a founding committee composed of the staff at the time of writing of those by-laws.

The registration process was completed by 4 October 2006, when the authorities in Draper, Utah and Brussels, Belgium granted non-profit corporation status to New Worlds Project in both the United States and the European Union.

The by-laws have now codified New Worlds' mission:

New Worlds Project is organized exclusively for education and literary purposes.