[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 130]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

fury that he
slaughtered thirty of them before it was possible to prevent him.
Sophron happened at that time to be within view; he ran with amazing
swiftness to the place, and found the savage bathed in blood, tearing
the carcass of a lamb he had just slain. At the approach of the daring
youth the wolf began to utter a dismal cry, and, quitting his prey,
seemed to prepare himself for slaughter of another kind. Sophron was
entirely unarmed, and the size and fury of the beast, which rushed
forward to attack him, might well have excused him had he declined the
combat. But he, consulting only his native courage, wrapped his
shepherd's cloak around his left arm, to resist the first onset of his
enemy, and, with a determined look and nimble pace, advanced towards his
threatening adversary. In an instant the wolf sprang upon him, with a
horrid yell; but Sophron nimbly eluded his attack, and suddenly throwing
his vigorous arms about the body of his adversary, compelled him to
struggle for his own safety. It was then that he uttered cries more
dreadful than before; and as he writhed about in all the agitations of
pain and madness, he gnashed his terrible teeth with impotent attempts
to bite, while the blood and foam which issued from his jaws rendered
his figure still more horrible than before. But Sophron, with undaunted
courage, still maintained his hold, and grasping him with irresistible
strength, prevented him from using either his teeth or claws in his own
defence. It was not long before the struggles and violence of the wolf
grew perceptibly weaker from fatigue, and he seemed to wish to decline a
further combat with so formidable a foe, could he have found means to
escape. Sophron then collected all his strength, and, seizing his
fainting adversary by the neck and throat, grasped him still tighter in
his terrible hands, till the beast, incapable either of disengaging
himself or breathing, yielded up the contest and his life together.

"It was almost in this moment that Tigranes passed that way, and
unexpectedly was witness to the triumphs of Sophron, and the miserable
end of his favourite. Inflamed with pride and indignation, Tigranes
uttered dreadful imprecations against his friend, who in vain attempted
to explain the transaction, and rushing upon him with all the madness of
inveterate hate, aimed a javelin at his bosom. Sophron was calm as he
was brave; he saw the necessity of defending his own life against the
attacks of a perfidious friend, and, with a nimble spring, at once
eluded the weapon and closed with his antagonist. The combat was then
more equal, for each was reduced to depend upon his own strength and
activity. They struggled for some time with all the efforts which
disappointed rage could inspire on the one side, and a virtuous
indignation on the other. At length the fortune, or rather the force and
coolness of Sophron, prevailed over the blind impetuous fury of
Tigranes; he at once exerted his whole remaining strength, with such
success that he hurled his adversary to the ground, where he lay,
bleeding, vanquished, and unable to rise. 'Thou scarcely,' said Sophron,
'deservest thy life from my hands, who couldst so wantonly and unjustly
attempt to deprive me of mine; however, I will rather remember thy early
merits than my recent injuries.' 'No,' replied the raging Tigranes,
'load me not with thy odious benefits; but rather rid me of a life which
I abhor, since thou hast robbed me of my honour.' 'I will never hurt
thee,' replied Sophron, 'but in my own just defence; live to make a
better use of life, and to have juster ideas of honour.' Saying this, he
assisted Tigranes to rise, but finding his temper full of implacable
resentment, he turned another way, and left him to go home alone.

"It was not long after this event that a company of soldiers marched
across the plains where Sophron was feeding his flocks, and halted to
refresh themselves under the shade of some spreading trees. The officer
who commanded them was struck with the comely figure and expressive
countenance of Sophron. He called the young man to him, and endeavoured
to inflame him with a military ardour, by setting before him the glory
which might be acquired by arms, and ridiculing the obscurity of a
country life. When he thought he had sufficiently excited his
admiration, he proposed to him that he should enrol himself in his
company; and promised him every encouragement which he thought most
likely to engage the passions of a young man. Sophron thanked him, with
humility, for his offers, but told him he had an aged father, who was
now become incapable of maintaining himself, and therefore that he could
accept of no offers, however advantageous they might appear, which would
interfere with the discharge of this duty. The officer replied, and
ridiculed the scruples of the young man; but, finding him inflexible in
his resolution, he at last turned from him