[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hussein Yasser

ter his contract with Lierse expired, he signed a one-year contract with Al-Wakrah of Qatar Stars League on 10 July 2013.

Return to Egypt
In July 2017, it was announced that Yasser signed with Egyptian club Wadi Degla. He had not played for a club since July 2016 when he parted ways with Al Wakrah.

International career
Yasser played for Qatar's youth teams from the age of 11. He played in the 2007 Gulf Cup, held in the United Arab Emirates in late January. Qatar team did not win, but Yasser impressed many. There was a request for him to enter one of the Emirati clubs, but he said that he still had a contract with Al Rayyan and was not thinking far into the future.

He was called up to the Qatar squad for the 2011 AFC Asian Cup, held on home soil. He featured in the hosts' first game against Uzbekistan, but was substituted later on as his team lost 2–0. He was an unused substitute for Qatar's other two group games against China and Kuwait in which they emerged victorious. He was later kicked out of the Qatar squad because he missed training and displayed a poor attitude. He has not been called up to the Qatar squad since being excluded apart from one game that September.

Honours
Qatar Crown Prince Cup: 2000–01
Egyptian Premier League: 2008–09, 2009–10
CAF Super Cup: 2009

References

External links

1984 births
Living people
Qatari men's footballers
Qatar men's international footballers
AEL Limassol players
Expatriate men's footballers in Cyprus
Belgian Pro League players
Challenger Pro League players
Cypriot First Division players
Boavista F.C. players
Royal Antwerp F.C. players
S.C. Braga players
Lierse S.K. players
Primeira Liga players
Expatriate men's footballers in Belgium
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Portugal
Expatriate men's footballers in Egypt
Qatari expatriate sportspeople in Belgium
Qatari expatriate sportspeople in England
Qatari expatriate sportspeople in Cyprus
Qatari expatriate sportspeople in Portugal
Qatari expatriate sportspeople in Egypt
Al Sadd SC players
2007 AFC Asian Cup players
2011 AFC Asian Cup players
Qatar Stars League players
Al-Rayyan SC players
Manchester United F.C. players
Manchester City F.C. players
Zamalek SC players
Al-Khor SC players
Al-Wakrah SC players
Wadi Degla S.C. players
Qatari people of Egyptian descent
Qatari expatriate men's footballers
Asian Games medalists in football
Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games
Men's association football midfielders
Men's association football forwards
Egyptian Premier League players
Asian Games gold medalists for Qatar
Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games