[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Gary Mills (footballer, born 1961)

e season, a 0–0 draw away to AFC Telford United, saw Mills come out of retirement after he came on as a 90th-minute substitute for Rodman. He was given a standing ovation from the travelling supporters in the process. After the end of the season he was named the Conference North Manager of the Year.

Tamworth started 2009–10 in good form, and by late September 2009 were occupying a play-off spot in the Conference Premier. Mills' team eventually finished in 16th place in a season of consolidation; this represented the second highest league placing in the club's history. He made the last appearance of his career aged 48 after starting Tamworth's 4–3 home defeat to Ebbsfleet United on 24 April 2010, before substituting himself for Des Lyttle in the 55th minute. This was his third appearance of the season. In the Conference Premier, Tamworth were playing against a number of clubs with Football League pedigrees, meaning they were not able to offer contracts as lucrative or long as many clubs. Mills complemented the competitiveness of his team in this division, saying: "For a small club like us, it's great to be mixing with these teams. But, while we may be smaller, like last year, we will make sure that we are capable of getting results." Tamworth had a strong start in 2010–11; they were again in a play-off position by late September 2010, and by the time Mills had left the club they were 12th in the Conference Premier.

York City

With a compensation package agreed Mills left Tamworth after being appointed the manager of fellow Conference Premier club York City on 13 October 2010. He replaced Martin Foyle, who resigned the previous month, and at the time of his appointment York were 16th in the table. He was not registered as a player at York, although chairman Jason McGill would refuse Mills a playing contract on multiple occasions. After his appointment, Mills said he believed he had left Tamworth for a club with greater potential and that his aim was to return York to the Football League.

Mills' first match in charge was a 1–1 draw at home to Bath City on 16 October 2010, and with results improving he was named the Conference Premier Manager of the Month for November 2010 after York recorded four wins and three draws, including a 3–0 home win over Rotherham United in the first round of the FA Cup. In the third round of the competition Mills' York played Premier League team Bolton Wanderers, who won 2–0 with late goals from Kevin Davies and Johan Elmander. York made a push toward the play-off places, and by mid March 2011 were sixth in the Conference Premier, just one place outside the play-offs. York finished 2010–11 in eighth place in the Conference Premier, The Press claiming Mills "restored pride and belief into the club" with his "unbounded optimism and positivity".

Mills made a statement of intent to win the Conference Premier title in 2011–12. His summer recruitment was focused on signing players who would improve the team's goalscoring record, and he succeeding in doing this when signing Matty Blair, Paddy McLaughlin and Jason Walker. York consistently occupied a play-off position throughout 2011–12, eventually securing one after finishing fourth in the table. The team played a passing style in the first half of the season, before often grinding out results with The Press saying they "compensated for a loss of craft with bundles of graft".

After beating Mansfield Town 2–1 on aggregate in the play-off semi-final, York were 2–0 victors over Newport County at Wembley Stadium in the 2012 FA Trophy Final; this was the first time the club had won a national knockout competition in its 90-year history. Eight days later Mills took his York team back to Wembley Stadium for the 2012 Conference Premier play-off final, and following a 2–1 victory over Luton Town with goals from Ashley Chambers and Blair, York were promoted to League Two, ending an eight-year absence from the Football League. This was the first time any club had won the FA Trophy and the Conference Premier play-offs in one season. This on-field achievement, combined with the approval for a community stadium to be built for the club, led to The Press lauding "an unsurpassed nine days in the Minstermen's proud existence".

Mills' signings for 2012–13 proved to be less influential than his signings the previous summer, a number of new players being left out of the team with little playing time. York were in midtable for most of the first half of the season, and his signings in the winter transfer window had little impact on the team. Having been 14th in the table on 1 January 2013, York went on a run of 11 matches without a win, and this left the team four points above the relegation zone in 18th place. Mills was dismissed by York on 2 March 2013, an hour after the last of these matches, a 2–0 defeat at home to Bradford City.