[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The House on the Borderland

everyone avoided had once been occupied by an unsociable old man and his elderly sister. Once a month, a man who told the villagers nothing took supplies to the house; years went by until suddenly that man excitedly reported that the house had disappeared and there was now a chasm where it had been.

Literary significance and criticism
The book was a milestone that signalled a radical departure from the typical Gothic fiction of the late 19th century. Hodgson created a newer more realistic/scientific cosmic horror that left a marked impression on those who would become the great writers of the weird tales of the middle of the 20th century, particularly Clark Ashton Smith, and H. P. Lovecraft. David Pringle rated The House on the Borderland three stars out of four and called the novel a "frightening tale". Reviewing the book, Neil Barron called it "An imaginative tour de force whose power transcends its patchwork construction; the cosmic vision sequence makes it equally interesting as a scientific romance, but it definitely strikes what its admirer H. P. Lovecraft sought to define as "the true note of cosmic horror"."

Release details
This novel was first published in Britain by Chapman and Hall, Ltd., London in 1908. Its most popular version was by Arkham House Press, Sauk City, Wisconsin, in 1946 as part of The House on the Borderland and Other Novels, the same publishers that brought out many books by other authors of weird fiction, such as H. P. Lovecraft.

Adaptations

In print
In 2000, DC Comics’ mature reader imprint Vertigo published a 96-page color graphic-novel adaptation The House on the Borderland, with story by Simon Revelstroke and art by Richard Corben. The book is available in soft and hardcover and contains an introduction by British comic writer Alan Moore. Revelstroke updated Hodgson's initial "manuscript discovery" frame to 1952 Ireland, and while he made an effort to retain most of the original plot and dialogue, excepting the very last page, the climax is purely Revelstroke's invention. In the credits, Revelstroke listed himself as a "Carnacki Fellow" currently "teaching at the Glen Carrig School of Nautical Horticulture", both direct (and fictional) references to Hodgson's other literary works. The adaptation was nominated for an International Horror Guild Award for Best Illustrated Narrative.

In music
The English Doom metal band Electric Wizard featured the song "The House on the Borderland" on their Electric Wizard/Reverend Bizarre (2008) split EP.

The American Rock band Into Another featured the song "William" on their 'Ignaurus' (1994) album. The song expresses a feeling of camaraderie with "William" and includes the lyric: "truth lives in a house on the borderland".

As part of their debut LP Escándalo en Bohemia, the Spanish pop band, Los Wattsons, offered "La casa más allá del confín de la tierra", the lyrics and music of which strive to recreate the spirit of the Hodgson tale.

On radio 
In 2007, BBC Radio released a two-hour-long, four-episode dramatization of the novel.

In games 

In 2020, a solitaire board game adaptation of The House on the Borderland was included in issue #2 of Lurker Magazine and co-published by the Emperors of Eternal Evil.  In 2023, the novel was adapted in an Dungeons and Dragons adventure by Doug Strain, called "Ruins on the Borderlands".

References

Sources

Further reading
Leigh Blackmore. "Ye Hogge: Liminality and the Motif of the Monstrous Pig in Hodgson's "The Hog" and The House on the Borderland". Sargasso: The Journal of William Hope Hodgson Studies No 3 (2016).

External links 

 
 

1908 British novels
1908 fantasy novels
Fictional houses
British horror novels
Dying Earth (genre)
British science fiction novels
British fantasy novels
Novels by William Hope Hodgson
Novels adapted into radio programs
Novels set in Ireland
Fiction set in 1877
Chapman & Hall books
Science fiction horror novels
Weird fiction novels
Fictional buildings and structures originating in literature