[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Nimmo

d the second intake of officer trainees for the small Australian Permanent Military Forces. He became known by the nickname "Putt" while at Duntroon. After the outbreak of World War I in August 1914 it was decided to graduate Nimmo's class fourteen months early in November of that year.

World War I

Gallipoli campaign
Nimmo was appointed as a lieutenant in the Permanent Military Forces upon graduation on 3 November 1914, having held the position of the senior cadet of his 40-strong class, known as the company sergeant major. He was commissioned as a lieutenant into the Australian Imperial Force (AIF) and joined the 5th Light Horse Regiment, part of Colonel Granville Ryrie's 2nd Light Horse Brigade which was forming from men recruited in Queensland. On 21 December the regiment sailed from Sydney for the Middle East aboard , a White Star Line ocean liner that had been converted into a troopship and redesignated HMAT A34. The regiment arrived in Egypt on 1 February 1915. Initially considered unsuitable for the landing at Gallipoli on 25 April, the whole brigade was landed at Anzac Cove on 20 May in a dismounted role to reinforce the severely depleted infantry of the 1st Division that had been fighting the Gallipoli campaign since 25 April. Nimmo was a troop commander in A Squadron, and although the regiment performed a defensive role for most of the campaign, it was involved in some minor attacks. Nimmo was involved in considerable fighting during the campaign.

In the second week of June the 2nd Light Horse Brigade was deployed onto the southernmost flank of the Australian frontline at Gallipoli. A competition then ensued by which the Australians and opposing Ottoman Army troops extended their trenches south, with the Australian position terminating at Chatham's Post at the seaward end of a long spur. The opposing Ottoman trench system at this point was the Echelon Trenches. The 2nd Light Horse Brigade was ordered to conduct a feint attack towards the Echelon Trenches, and to occupy an intermediate position known as the Balkan Pits from which the Ottomans were to be led to believe the attack was to be launched. A Squadron of the 5th Light Horse Regiment was to occupy the Balkan Pits with cover from other elements of the brigade from various positions, along with artillery. Nimmo was in the forefront of this advance, engaging exposed Ottoman troops as they went, causing confusion, but drawing fire and warning the Ottomans of the danger, and they promptly occupied the Echelon Trenches in response. The half-squadron, now in the Balkan Pits, was engaged by Ottoman artillery, and there was some friendly fire from a British destroyer which also caused casualties. Despite accompanying heavy rifle fire and Ottoman troops approaching from two directions, the lighthorsemen remained in position. Nimmo's leadership in steadying the forward troops at this juncture was noted in the Australian official history of the war. With the Ottomans closing in, the lighthorsemen were ordered to withdraw, but they refused to leave any wounded behind, which slowed their eventual return to the Australian line about dusk. During the operation, the 5th Light Horse Regiment lost 24 killed, 79 wounded, and one taken prisoner.

On 16 July Nimmo was appointed as regimental adjutant and twelve days later he was temporarily promoted to captain. He was evacuated with enteric fever in late August, and because he was no longer performing his adjutant duties he reverted to his substantive rank of lieutenant on 30 August. He was admitted to hospital in Alexandria in Egypt on 6 September then evacuated to the UK on 23 September where he was admitted to hospital in London on 5 October. Due to his absence from his unit, he was placed on the supernumerary list on 13 December.

Sinai and Palestine campaign