[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Control Arms Campaign

Trade Treaty.

Control Arms, alongside Reaching Critical Will, also operated a website  tracking states' positions on the Arms Trade Treaty. Since April 2013, it also holds a record of states' votes for the final Resolution adopting the ATT, as well as a record of state signatures and ratifications.

Success
The main aim of the Control Arms campaign, achieving an international Arms Trade Treaty, was effectively met on April 2, 2013 when the United Nations voted to adopt the text agreed at the negotiating conference the previous month.

The Treaty had been the work of a concerted campaign over the course of more than a decade, and is particularly noteworthy given the speed in which it was agreed, and that it was agreed through the UN system. The UN Conference on Disarmament has been at a stalemate for over 16 years. Comparative treaties, such as the Mine Ban Treaty and the Convention on Cluster Munitions, have had to find agreement outside the UN process.

As an indication of the centrality of civil society groups including Control Arms to the success of the process, a number of states, the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, and the President of the final negotiating conference all praised civil society for their contributions. Ban Ki-moon said that he commended "the members of civil society for their tireless campaigns, expert contributions and unwavering support". In a statement given whilst signing the Arms Trade Treaty as Australian Ambassador to the UN, the President of the final conference, Peter Woolcott, said that "[s]tates did not do this alone. It is important we recognize the enormous contribution of civil society who have been advocating for this Treaty for many years, who informed our negotiations and who have an important role in the years ahead".

Future of the campaign
Although the main goal of the Control Arms campaign has been achieved - an international Arms Trade Treaty has been agreed - the campaign will continue to be involved in the Arms Trade Treaty process. Currently, Control Arms is pushing members to ask their state to sign the Arms Trade Treaty as soon as possible.

In the future, the campaign will seek to monitor states' compliance with the Arms Trade Treaty, and push for states to ensure strong and consistent application of the Treaty.

See also
 Arms Control Association
 Arms Reduction Coalition
 Campaign Against Arms Trade
 Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation
 Council for a Livable World
 Small arms proliferation

References

External links
The Control Arms Campaign
 ArmsTreaty.org

Arms control
Oxfam