[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sir Henry Slingsby, 1st Baronet

at Newark, commanded by his brother-in-law Lord Belasyse, which was being besieged by the Scottish army. Charles escaped from Oxford on 29 April 1646 to join the Scots outside Newark, and on 6 May ordered Belasyse to surrender, bringing the First English Civil War to an end.

Career; Post Civil War

Slingsby retired to his estates at Redhouse, near Moor Monkton where he wrote his memoirs but failed to agree with the terms of the Parliamentary Committee for Compounding with Delinquents. In his 'Memoirs' he explains his refusal as due to the requirement he swear an oath of loyalty to Parliament and take the Solemn League and Covenant, accepting a Presbyterian-structured Church of England; 'the one makes me renounce my allegiance, the other my religion'. Objections to the Covenant crossed the political divide; John Lilburne, the Parliamentarian political and religious radical, was another who did the same.

His estates were confiscated in 1651, despite the efforts of his Parliamentarian nephew Slingsby Bethell, son of his sister Mary, and the regicide Sir John Bourchier to have him exempted. Demonstrating how family networks often pre-empted politics, Bethell and other relatives purchased his lands for £11,200, which they held in trust for his children. Slingsby was arrested following the 1655 Penruddock uprising, a national revolt of which only the Wiltshire element took place and was quickly crushed. Often described as planned by the Sealed Knot, a small group of senior Royalists which included his brother-in-law Lord Belasyse, it was actually organised by a network referred to as the 'Action Party'. Although Slingsby was involved in the Royalist underground, Belasyse told the exiled Charles II the revolt had no hope of success and it seems unlikely he played a significant role.

Imprisoned in Hull, he allegedly tried to persuade officers within the garrison to deliver the port to Royalist forces, an action they reported to their superiors. At first, he was simply moved to York but when another plot was discovered in early 1658, the government decided to take a harder line; he was sent to London and found guilty of treason in March 1658. Despite efforts to have this sentence commuted by his relative Thomas Belasyse, who was Oliver Cromwell's son-in-law, he was executed on Tower Hill on 8 June 1658, along with another conspirator, John Hewett.

Shortly before his death, Slingsby wrote A father's legacy; Sir Henry Slingsbey's instructions to his sonnes, which was later published; his body was returned to his family and buried at St John the Baptist Church, Knaresborough. He was succeeded by his son Thomas, who supported James during the Exclusion Crisis and was suspected of being a Catholic.

References

Sources

Bibliography
 ; biography with extracts from his diary and family letters.
 

|-

1602 births
1658 deaths
Baronets in the Baronetage of Nova Scotia
English MPs 1625
People executed under the Interregnum (England) by decapitation
Executed English people
English landowners
English MPs 1640 (April)
English MPs 1640–1648
Alumni of Queens' College, Cambridge
Military personnel from Yorkshire
Royalist military personnel of the English Civil War
Executions at the Tower of London