[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wolfgang Lotz

litary and its industries. He also composed a list of German scientists who worked for the Egyptians and in September 1964 he sent letter bombs to some of them, in an attempt to induce them to cease their work. Lotz's
letter bombs killed some Egyptian civilians and their effects were deemed limited.

Arrest 
On 22 February 1965, Lotz was arrested at his home in Cairo. Lotz at first denied the charges of espionage, but broke down after the Egyptian police found a radio transmitter in his house while Lotz was confronted with evidence of coded radio messages transmitted from his house. In 1965 Syria had caught the Israeli arch-spy Eli Cohen while he used a wireless set, whose transmissions were traced back to his house in Damascus. Inspired by the Syrian example, the Egyptians had purchased new radio direction-finding equipment from the Soviet Union, which promptly picked up Lotz's transmissions.

According to Lotz's 1972 autobiography, The Champagne Spy, Lotz was captured after a wireless set was discovered hidden inside a bathroom scale; he had used this to transmit Egyptian target coordinates prior to the impending Israeli surprise attack of 1967.

The most recent account, reported that the Egyptians aided by Soviet experts in radio detection tracked Lotz down to his Cairo home and arrested him. Lotz, thinking he was exposed, confessed to being a spy but stuck to his German cover story and claimed he was tempted by the Israelis to spy for them in exchange for them giving him funds to establish his riding club. The Egyptians believed that Lotz was a German spying for Israel for financial reasons; had they known that Lotz was an Israeli citizen spying because he was a Zionist, he would have almost certainly been executed. However, Lotz was still tortured for information.

According to some Israeli accounts, the Egyptians believed Lotz even when evidence arrived from Germany which pointed to his true identity. Lotz and his wife were put on trial and the Mossad managed to get him represented by a German lawyer and ensure a German observer from the embassy who oversaw the fairness of the trial.

Lotz was sentenced to life imprisonment as a spy on 21 August 1965, and his wife was sentenced to three years in jail. Both were released in the prisoner exchange in 1968 following the 1967 Six-Day War.

Later work and death 
He resided in Israel until the death of his German wife, Waltraud, in 1973, who died from coronary disease. He never returned to his Israeli wife and their son, Oded Gur-Arie. Lotz was called in 1980 to Munich by Egon Flörchinger, general manager of book publisher Moewig Verlag, for whom he wrote a number of paperbacks. He became the leader of the sports department of the big Kaufhof department store in Munich, part of the fourth-largest retailer in the world Metro AG.

During the 1982 war in Lebanon, his old companion Ariel Sharon called him back to Israel for a special mission. Together with Jonathan Stern—like Lotz born in Germany—Wolfang Lotz was to guide foreign journalists to Beirut and explain to them the Israeli position. Back in Munich he met journalist Herma Haddorp and fell in love with her. The couple moved into a luxurious apartment in Munich-Bogenhausen where he lived until his death a decade later. He died in 1993 at age 72 from heart disease he had acquired in Egypt during his imprisonment. Lotz was buried in Israel with full military honours.

References

Further reading

 
  Made into a documentary movie Meragel Ha-Shampaniya (2007) containing interviews with Lotz' son, acquaintances and the Mossad operatives that controlled Lotz.

External links
 

1921 births
1993 deaths
British Army personnel of World War II
Haganah members
Israeli soldiers
Israeli prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment
Israeli people imprisoned abroad
Jewish emigrants from Nazi Germany to Mandatory Palestine
People convicted of spying for Israel
People of the Mossad
People of the Federal Intelligence Service
Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment by Egypt