[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Buck Danny

ibbean dictator bent on causing a nuclear war between East and West. In the second, he and his wingmen investigate the sightings of unidentified aircraft over the Arctic.
Missions a Très Haut Risque (High-risk missions).
Covers the albums 34) 35) 36) and 37) plus a previously unpublished short story

Two story arcs. In the first, the Navy loses a nuclear weapon over the Central American republic of Managuay; Danny, Tumbler and Tuckson are infiltrated among the rebels who recovered it to try to steal it back. In the second, they enter the Blue Angels stunt team and are sent to a high-profile airshow in Karachi, where they must again face the threat of Lady X as well as deal with racial tensions within the squadron itself.
Mission Aérienne Anti-Mafia (Aerial Anti-Mafia Mission).
Covers the albums 38) 39) and 40) plus four short stories
Danny and his wingmen discover a Mafia-run opium plantation in the Bornean nation of North Sarawak. With the United States politically unable to act, the admiral in charge of the carrier group defies the Pentagon's orders and decides to take down the operation himself.
Alerte Nucléaire (Nuclear Alert).
Covers the albums 41) 42) and 43)
NATO is being blackmailed by the International Front of Armed Revolutionary Groups, a red terrorist organization which has stolen a nuclear weapon and two F-14s from the U.S. military. Danny, Tumbler and Tuckson must locate the terrorists' base in the Caribbean before the Front can use the weapon on an upcoming UN summit.
Ennemis Intérieurs (Enemies within).
Covers the albums 44) and 45) plus the unfinished version of the Blackbirds

Two stand-alone novels, heavily influenced by international developments in the last few years of the Cold War. In the first, Danny is sent to Nellis to take charge of a defecting MiG-29 pilot. In the second, he is sent to visit the Soviet Union's newest aircraft carrier and finds himself swept up in a web of perestroika politics; some parties want him eliminated, while others want to use him for their own ends.
Zones de Combat (Combat zones).
Covers the albums 46) 47) and 48) plus a special short story 'The Mascotte'

One stand-alone novel and one story arc. In the former, Danny commands an off-the-books fighter unit in Yugoslavia. In the latter, they are sent to train fighter pilots in Central America making a transition from F-104 to F-18. There they find themselves facing a powerful drug cartel which plans to take control of several Central American nations... with a little help from Lady X.
Embrouilles en Temps de Paix (Troubles in peacetime).
Covers the albums 49) 50) and 51) and two unpublished short stories

Three stand-alone novels. In the first, Danny and his wingmen help recover an American pilot shot down over North Korea. In the second, they are sent to test the new F-22's performance, which has recently been hindered by several sabotage actions. In the third, they locate a flight of unidentified aircraft over the Antarctic, and are sent to investigate.

Tanguy et Laverdure crossovers 
Buck Danny crosses over several times with Tanguy et Laverdure.

Buck is first shown on his own in the adventure Escadrille des Cigognes, talking with two Australian pilots in the canteen of a USAF base in Europe. Buck and his sidekicks also appear in some of the illustrations for the adventure Canon Bleu Ne Rèpond Plus. In this story the two French pilots meet Buck Danny and his US Navy squadron of F-8 Crusaders in the US base of Thule. Another tribute is also present at the end of the Tanguy Et Laverdure story Prisonniers Des Serbes where Erneste Laverdure is reading the Buck Danny album Les Agresseurs.

Buck, Tumbler and especially Tuckson play an important role in the album Rencontre De Trois Type. This adventure is placed at Nellis AFB during one of the periodical "Red Flag" exercises on which the Rafale and Mirage 2000 of French Air Force are involved. Buck Danny and his friends help the French aviators to bring a dangerous group of saboteurs to justice who are carrying out attacks against French Rafale fighters, helped by an accomplice journalist, to disqualify the aircraft in the aviation newspapers. In this adventure Lady X also appears, involved in the plot against the French aircraft.

Buck, Tuckson and Tumbler are also shown in the second volume of the series Angel Wings. They are depicted watching Jinx Falkenburg during her concert which many squadrons were invited to. The Angel Wings adventure is placed during WWII, in the Burma area, thus in the same period during which Buck Danny and friends are on duty with the Flying Tigers.

Conversely, there is also a cross-over with Tanguy and Laverdure appearing in one of Buck Danny's episodes: in the duet of albums (36 & 37) where Buck, Tumb and Sonny join the Blue Angels and participate in an international exhibition; they compete against (amongst others) both Tanguy and Laverdure representing France, and Dan Cooper representing Canada.