[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Americanization (immigration)

erican values and customs through activities such as sewing, budgeting, and motherhood. The same idea for educating young girls was the reason that they were educating mothers, the girls would grow up to be mothers and have an influence on the lives of Mexican Americans in and outside the household.

Education was the main focus of the Americanization efforts. Soon, it became engraved in the minds of Mexican-Americans that the best way to become a part of American society was through leaving their own Mexican culture behind. Throughout the southwest, new organizations were being created to fully integrate Mexican-Americans into society. One example is the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), which was founded in 1929 and only allowed United States Citizens to join. Found in a LULAC pamphlet is the phrase “We believe that education is the foundation for the cultural grown and development of this nation and that we are obligated to protect and promote the education of our people in accordance with the best American principles and standards,” showing the organization's dedication to Americanization. Through organizations that supported Americanization being created before World War II, there came a larger divide between Mexican immigrants and Mexican-Americans.

Some Mexican Americans also rejected Americanization by creating a distinct identity influenced by the Black American counterculture of zoot suiters in the jazz and swing music scene on the east coast. Anti-assimilationist Mexican American as early as the 1940s youth rejected the previous generation's aspirations to assimilate into Anglo-American or American society and instead developed an "alienated pachuco culture that fashioned itself neither as Mexican nor American." Some pachucos/as and Mexican American youth began to identify as Chicano/a as early as the 1940s and 1950s. Identifying as Chicano/a was a way of reclaiming what had widely been used as a classist term of derision directed towards ethnic Mexicans who were not Americanized. Chicano/a was widely reclaimed in the 1960s and 1970s to express political empowerment, ethnic solidarity, and pride in being of Indigenous descent, diverging from Mexican American identity.

Poles
The study of Polish immigrants to the United States, The Polish Peasant in Europe and America (1918–1920), became the landmark first study of this process.

Other uses
The term also is used for the cultural transformation of areas brought into the U.S., such as Alaska, and on the assimilation of Native Americans.

Impact on other countries
The term Americanization has been used since 1907 for the American impact on other countries. Other countries often perceive America to be one, if not the most powerful, modern nation in the world. As a result many other countries have attempted to replicate elements of the American way of life.  

See also
Americanization (foreign culture and media)
Anglicisation of names
Melting pot
Civic nationalism, and its converse, ethnic nationalism
Nativism
Immigration to the United States of America
Salad bowl (cultural idea)
Americanization Now and Then

References

Further reading
Barrett, James R. "Americanization from the Bottom, Up: Immigration and the Remaking of the American Working Class, 1880–1930." Journal of American History (1992) 79#3 pp. 996–1020. in JSTOR
 Bernard, Shane. The Cajuns: Americanization of a People (2002).
 Cowan, Neil M. and Cowan, Ruth Schwartz. Our Parents' Lives: The Americanization of Eastern European Jews. (1989).
 McClymer, John F.  War and Welfare: Social Engineering in America, 1890–1925 (1980)
 Olneck, Michael R. "Americanization and the Education Of Immigrants, 1900–1925: An Analysis Of Symbolic Action." American Journal of Education 1989 97(4): 398–423; shows that Americanization programs help liberate youth from the tight confines of traditional families  in JSTOR
 Olneck, Michael R. "What Have Immigrants Wanted from American Schools? What Do They Want Now? Historical and Contemporary Perspectives on Immigrants, Language, and American Schooling," American Journal of Education, 115 (May 2009), 379–406.
 Seltzer, Robert M. and Cohen, Norman S., eds. The Americanization of the Jews. (1995).
 Sterba, Christopher M. Good Americans: Italian and Jewish immigrants during the First World War (2003).
 Van Nuys,  Frank. Americanizing the West: Race, Immigrants, and Citizenship, 1890–1930 (2002).
 Ziegler-McPherson, Christina A. Americanization in the States:  Immigrant Social Welfare Policy, Citizenship, and National Identity in the United States, 1908–1929, (2009)