[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dimitri Kitsikis

ver, the idea of a global hellenism is prevalent in all his works and teaching.

He created a model for a new approach of the three political ideologies of liberalism, fascism and communism, and he has published on the history of China. He is the founder of the branch of study known as Photohistory.

He is also a recognised poet, with six collections of poetry published by Pierre Jean Oswald (Paris), Naaman (Québec), Kedros (Κέδρος), Hestia (Ἑστία) and Akritas (Ἀκρίτας). In 1991, he was honored with the first Greek-Turkish prize for poetry Abdi İpekçi, a Turkish journalist who had been shot dead by terrorists. Some of his poetry books, namely Omphalos (1977), l'Orocc dans l'âge de Kali (1985) and le Paradis perdu sur les barricades (1989–1993), became part of an anthology of 32 Canadian poets in the book by H. Bouraoui and J. Flamand. His poetic work was included in the Dictionnaire des citations littéraires de l'Ontario français, depuis 1960. His poems were also used in the books by the Greek artist Georgette Kambani.

Kitsikis regarded the Greek language as the cornerstone of planetary civilization, and he thus deemed it an honour for one to be able to write in Greek. He believed that the treatment of the language should be taken out of the hands of Greek philologists who are currently destroying it. He defended the continued use of polytonic Greek, traditional spelling and the freedom to write in any literary tone. He regarded as erroneous only the implementation of a Greek form not used from the time of Homer to today.

He is the founder of four concepts setting a novel approach for the history of the Greek-Turkish Area to be understood: a) The "Intermediate Region" (Endiamese Perioche, Ἐνδιάμεση Περιοχή) of civilisation, extending from the Adriatic Sea to the Indus River, between the Euro-American West and the Hindu-Chinese East. b) Eastern Party in Greece and Turkey (Ἀνατολικὴ Παράταξις) versus Western Party (Δυτικὴ Παράταξις) as an antagonist couple; c) Hellenoturkism (Ἑλληνοτουρκισμός) as an ideology and as a phenomenon of culture for the last one thousand years; d) Alevi–Bektashi religious origin of the Ottoman Dynasty, the Islamisation of which developed hand-in-hand with its secularisation and westernisation.

In 2007, A Comparative History of Greece and China from Antiquity to the Present was published. The book is notable in that it homes in on the relationship between the two civilisations throughout their entire history spanning three millennia. The study raises two concepts: 1) the Greek-Chinese civilisation in a global context and 2) its political expression during the last 2500 years, that is, ecumenical empire as a glorified organisational model.

Ahead of the September 2015 general elections in Greece, Kitsikis as a supporter of the KKE, the Communist Party of Greece, endorsed tactically the Golden Dawn party, calling it an electoral choice to help the defeat of Syriza social democracy.

Since 1996, Kitsikis has written for a Greek language, self-published geopolitical quarterly called Intermediate Region wherein he extensively discusses his Hellenoturkist viewpoints and his nationalistic outlook, describing the aims of the journal as "to give the knowledge that will enable the revolutionary overthrow of the structure of the present provincial little state of Athens and the building up of a national regime".

Influence on Turkish politics
Kitsikis was former prime minister Ahmet Davutoğlu's professor as well as a close adviser of former President Turgut Özal. He is considered to have had a decisive influence, on Davutoğlu's geopolitical theory.

Kitsikis wrote in both his Facebook and Twitter accounts, the day after the Turkish referendum 2017: "Christ is risen! The Empire is risen! The Ottoman world is risen! The Intermediate Region has come to life again! Long live president Erdoğan! Fethullah Gülen, his former spiritual father, has lost, but his ideas, through his pupil Erdoğan, have triumphed."

The Dimitri Kitsikis Public Foundation
The Dimitri Kitsikis Public Foundation in Athens, Greece, was formally established under Presidential Decree 129, A 190 (pp. 3425, 3430–3431). The Presidential Decree was published 15 September 2008, in the Gazette of the Government of Greece (ΦΕΚ).

Published works 
(Excluding articles)