[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Battle of Agincourt

English force into battle, playing on the importance of the link between the monarch and the common soldiers in the fight. The original play does not, however, feature any scenes of the actual battle itself, leading critic Rose Zimbardo to characterise it as "full of warfare, yet empty of conflict."

The play introduced the famous St Crispin's Day Speech, considered one of Shakespeare's most heroic speeches, which Henry delivers movingly to his soldiers just before the battle, urging his "band of brothers" to stand together in the forthcoming fight. Critic David Margolies describes how it "oozes honour, military glory, love of country and self-sacrifice", and forms one of the first instances of English literature linking solidarity and comradeship to success in battle. Partially as a result, the battle was used as a metaphor at the beginning of the First World War, when the British Expeditionary Force's attempts to stop the German advances were widely likened to it.

Shakespeare's portrayal of the casualty loss is ahistorical in that the French are stated to have lost 10,000 and the English 'less than' thirty men, prompting Henry's remark, "O God, thy arm was here".

In 2008, English-American author Bernard Cornwell released a retelling of both the events leading up the battle and the battle itself, titled Azincourt. The story is told predominantly through the eyes of an English longbowman named Nicholas Hook.

Films
Shakespeare's version of the battle of Agincourt has been turned into several minor and two major films. The latter, each titled Henry V, star Laurence Olivier in 1944 and Kenneth Branagh in 1989. Made just prior to the invasion of Normandy, Olivier's rendition gives the battle what Sarah Hatchuel has termed an "exhilarating and heroic" tone, with an artificial, cinematic look to the battle scenes. Branagh's version gives a longer, more realist portrayal of the battle itself, drawing on both historical sources and images from the Vietnam and Falkland Wars.

In his 2007 film adaptation, director Peter Babakitis uses digital effects to exaggerate realist features during the battle scenes, producing a more avant-garde interpretation of the fighting at Agincourt. The battle also forms a central component of the 2019 Netflix film The King, which stars Timothée Chalamet as Henry V and Robert Pattinson as the Dauphin of Viennois. The film takes inspiration from Shakespeare's Henriad plays.

Mock trial
In March 2010, a mock trial of Henry V for the crimes associated with the slaughter of the prisoners was held in Washington, D.C., drawing from both the historical record and Shakespeare's play. Participating as judges were Justices Samuel Alito and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. The trial ranged widely over whether there was just cause for war and not simply the prisoner issue. Although an audience vote was "too close to call", Henry was unanimously found guilty by the court on the basis of "evolving standards of civil society".

Agincourt today
There is a modern museum in Azincourt village dedicated to the battle. The museum lists the names of combatants of both sides who died in the battle.

Notes

References

Citations

General sources

Further reading

 Beck, Steve (2005). The Battle of Agincourt, Military History Online
 
 Cooper, Stephen (2015). "Where was Agincourt fought?" , Agincourt 600 website
 
 Family Chronicle.com, The Agincourt Honor Roll, Family Chronicle, March/April 1997.
 The Fitzwilliam Museum, University of Cambridge Macclesfield Psalter CD
 
 Grummitt, David. (Oxford University), A review of Agincourt 1415: Henry V, Sir Thomas Erpingham and the triumph of the English archers ed. Anne Curry, Pub: Tempus UK, 2000 . Accessed 15 April 2008.
 Hansen, Mogens Herman (Copenhagen Polis Centre) The Little Grey Horse – Henry V's Speech at Agincourt and the Battle Exhortation in Ancient Historiography Histos volume 2 (March 1998), website of the Department of Classics and Ancient History, University of Durham
 
 
 
 
 "Battle of Agincourt" in Military Heritage, October 2005, Volume 7, No. 2, pp. 36–43. .

External links 

 Battle of Agincourt memorial 
  The Agincourt Battlefield Archaeology Project, Tim Sutherland (Project Director)
 Azincourt Museum
  – Bragg, Melvyn (presenter), with Anne Curry, Michael Jones and John Watts, 16 September 2004.
 Detailed list of French casualties
 Contemporary account of battle  by Enguerrand de Monstrelet (d.1453), governor of Cambrai and supporter of the French crown.
 Battle of Agincourt on Medieval Archives Podcast
 Battle of Agincourt animated map by David Crowther
 Agincourt campaign animated map by David Crowther
 [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GBJww-70sCU} Lt Col John Woodford and Excavations at Azincourt (17 September 2015, Agincourt600 conference) by Tim Sutherland

1410s in France
1415 in England
Agincourt
Agincourt 1415
Conflicts in 1415
Henry V of England
History of archery
Military history of the Pas-de-Calais
Hundred Years' War, 1415–1453