[Source: Gutenberg#932 | Part 5]
# The Wealth of Nations — Adam Smith

e spirit of abstraction, may be
shadowed forth, although feebly, in words.  A small picture
presented the interior of an immensely long and rectangular vault
or tunnel, with low walls, smooth, white, and without
interruption or device.  Certain accessory points of the design
served well to convey the idea that this excavation lay at an
exceeding depth below the surface of the earth.  No outlet was
observed in any portion of its vast extent, and no torch,
or other artificial source of light was discernible; yet a flood
of intense rays rolled throughout, and bathed the whole in a
ghastly and inappropriate splendour.

I have just spoken of that morbid condition of the auditory
nerve which rendered all music intolerable to the sufferer, with
the exception of certain effects of stringed instruments.  It
was, perhaps, the narrow limits to which he thus confined himself
upon the guitar, which gave birth, in great measure, to the
fantastic character of the performances.  But the fervid
facility of his impromptus could not be so accounted for.
They must have been, and were, in the notes, as well as in the
words of his wild fantasias (for he not unfrequently accompanied
himself with rhymed verbal improvisations), the result of that
intense mental collectedness and concentration to which I have
previously alluded as observable only in particular moments of
the highest artificial excitement.  The words of one of these
rhapsodies I have easily remembered.  I was, perhaps, the more
forcibly impressed with it, as he gave it, because, in the under
or mystic current of its meaning, I fancied that I perceived, and
for the first time, a full consciousness on the part of Usher, of
the tottering of his lofty reason upon her throne.  The verses,
which were entitled "The Haunted Palace," ran very nearly, if not
accurately, thus:


                            I.

               In the greenest of our valleys,
                 By good angels tenanted,
               Once a fair and stately palace--
                 Radiant palace--reared its head.
               In the monarch Thought's dominion--
                 It stood there!
               Never seraph spread a pinion
                 Over fabric half so fair.


                           II.

               Banners yellow, glorious, golden,
                 On its roof did float and flow;
               (This--all this--was in the olden
                 Time long ago)
               And every gentle air that dallied,
                 In that sweet day,
               Along the ramparts plumed and pallid,
                 A winged odour went away.


                           III.

               Wanderers in that happy valley
                 Through two luminous windows saw
               Spirits moving musically
                 To a lute's well tuned law,
               Round about a throne, where sitting
                 (Porphyrogene!)
               In state his glory well befitting,
                 The ruler of the realm was seen.


                           IV.

               And all with pearl and ruby glowing
                 Was the fair palace door,
               Through which came flowing, flowing, flowing
                 And sparkling evermore,
               A troop of Echoes whose sweet duty
                 Was but to sing,
               In voices of surpassing beauty,
                 The wit and wisdom of their king.


                            V.

               But evil things, in robes of sorrow,
                 Assailed the monarch's high estate;
               (Ah, let us mourn, for never morrow
                 Shall dawn upon him, desolate!)
               And, round about his home, the glory
                 That blushed and bloomed
               Is but a dim-remembered story,
                 Of the old time entombed.


                           VI.

               And travellers now within that valley,
                 Through the red-litten windows, see
               Vast forms that move fantastically
                 To a discordant melody;
               While, like a rapid ghastly river,
                 Through the pale door,
               A hideous throng rush out forever,
                 And laugh--but smile no more.


I well remember that suggestions arising from this ballad,
led us into a train of thought wherein there became manifest an
opinion of Usher's which I mention not so much on account of its
novelty (for other men* have thought thus,) as on account of the
pertinacity with which he maintained it.  This opinion, in its
general form, was that of the sentience of all vegetable things.
But, in his disordered fancy, the idea had assumed a more daring
character, and trespassed, under certain conditions, upon the
kingdom of inorganization.  I lack words to express the full
extent, or the earnest abandon of his