[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# World War III in popular culture

Vegas (2010). DEFCON (2007) places players in charge of preparing for and fighting a nuclear war with other human or computer-generated players attacking from and defending different sectors of planet Earth. Its simple 1980s-style vector graphics are inspired by those seen in the 1983 film WarGames.

In 2000, a made-for-TV remake of Fail Safe was produced that remained set in the 1960s time period depicted in the novel.

In 2002, the novel Metro 2033, written by Dmitry Glukhovsky, was released, which revolved around the survivors of a post-nuclear apocalyptic world within the Moscow subway system. It is never specified how the nuclear war begins, but through a combination of overwhelming biological and nuclear strikes occurred around the world, creating supernatural anomalies and new, heavily mutated animal species. Humanity, at least in urban areas, was forced underground into the Moscow subway system and eventually developed rudimentary civilization there in settlements based around the stations. The primary story centers around the character of Artyom, a Stalker from one of the fringe stations within the Moscow, traveling to find help for his home, which is under attack by very advanced, very intelligent mutants. This novel was eventually expanded into a media franchise encompassing multiple books and three video games, the first of which is an adaptation of the novel's events, the second, Metro: Last Light, which sees Artyom struggling to prevent the Moscow network from annihilating itself in a factional war, and the third, Metro Exodus, which revolves around Artyom and a group of fellow stalkers leaving Moscow and traveling through Russia by train in search of a new place to live.

 2010s 

World War III and its predicted aftermath continued to be portrayed in popular media around the world such as in recent video games APOX (2011), Homefront (2011), and the Metro franchise – Metro 2033 (2010), Metro: Last Light (2013), Metro Exodus (2019).Ace Combat: Assault Horizon (2011) starts with a Russian Rebellion taking control of Russia and starting a war against NATO. Wargame: European Escalation (2012) is an RTS game that simulates full-scale conventional warfare between NATO and the Warsaw Pact between 1975 and 1985. The scenario of World War III was also seen in the film X-Men: First Class (2011), where Sebastian Shaw, Emma Frost, and the Hellfire Club planned to support a third World War to destroy the humans and evolve the mutants so that the Hellfire Club could establish its rule over the Earth. Some other films that portray a world like World War III are Red Dawn, a remake of the 1984 movie which features an invasion by North Korea and Russia of the United States; Tomorrow, When The War Began, which portrays an invasion of Australia by a coalition of Asian nations; and the 2010 Croatian film The Show Must Go On. A scenario involving World War III is also seen in Hunter Killer in which a rogue Russian minister attempts a coup and American forces must fight his forces to avert further escalation of the conflict. The Unthinkable is a 2018 movie that depicts a Russian invasion of Sweden and Europe. The Wolf's Call is a 2019 French film that portrays a French Rubis-class submarine caught in the middle of an armed conflict between the West and a Russian-Iranian alliance. "World War III: Inside the War Room" is a 2016 docudrama that details a war between NATO and Russia after Putin invades Latvia in a fight like the Russo-Ukrainian War. Steel Rain is a 2017 South Korean film that portrays a North Korean coup to instigate a war against South Korea and the United States with the aid of China. World War III is further referenced in the Japanese anime Steins;Gate (2011) in which Rintaro Okabe must travel through various world timelines to prevent a new world arms race after the discovery of time travel and would eventually envelop the planet in a global war over the technology. Another anime, AKB0048 (2012–2013), takes place 48 years after an interplanetary war destroyed all on Earth and forced humanity to flee to other inhabitable planets.