[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Olisipo

us Quadratus, a governor, was in Olisipo. In 185 Sextus Tigidius Perennis, governor of Lusitania, visited the region. Between 200 and 209 Junius Celanius, a governor, also came to Olisipo.

Lucidius was the native Roman governor of the city in 468, having helped the Suebi under Remismund to take it.

Religion
Olisipo, like most great cities in the Western Empire, was a centre for the dissemination of Christianity. Its first attested Bishop was St. Potamius (c. 356), and there were several martyrs killed during persecutions, such as the Diocletianic Persecution; Verissimus, Maxima, and Julia are the most significant names. According to legend, the three were sons of a Roman senator, martyred in Lisbon in the 4th century, under the Roman governor Ageian or Tarquinius in the time of Emperor Diocletian. A temple was then built in the Campolide area, whose ruins still existed in the Middle Ages . The relics of the saints are kept in the Santos-o-Velho Church.

In the middle of the 4th century the Olisipo diocesis was formed.

There is also the legend of Saint Ginés (São Gens), presented as one of the first martyr bishops of Lisbon and remembered in the Nossa Senhora do Monte chapel.

At the end of Roman rule, Olisipo was one of the first Christian cities.

Roman architectural remains in the region

The city was a caput viarium of the Roman road to Bracara Augusta and the three roads to Emerita Augusta.
Olisipo controlled a vast region, bordered by the Alcabrichel and Ota rivers in the north.

The territory includes the following Roman archaeological finds, known settlements or place names:

In the current Sintra municipality
Archaeological Site of Alto da Vigia (Praia das Maçãs, Sintra)
Archaeological Site of Colaride (Alto de Colaride, Sintra)
Archaeological Museum of São Miguel de Odrinhas (Odrinhas, Sintra)
Roman dam of Belas (Belas, Sintra)
Roman bridge at Catribana (Catribana, Sintra)
Roman bridge at Albarraque (Rio de Mouro, Sintra)
Roman bridge at Várzea de Baixo (Colares (Sintra))
Roman bridge at Cheleiros (Cheleiros, Sintra)
Roman villa of Santo André de Almoçageme (Almoçageme, Sintra)
Roman villa of Amoreira (São João das Lampas, Sintra)
Roman villa of Barros do Casal Silvério (Montelavar, Sintra)
Roman villa of Granja dos Serrões (Pêro Pinheiro, Sintra)
Roman villa of Corrais do Chão (Sintra)
Roman villa of São Marcos (São Marcos, Sintra)
Roman site of Vila Velha (Sintra)
Vicus of Faião (Terrugem, possible location for Chretina)
Roman mine of Monte Suimo (Serra da Carregueira, Sintra)
Fountain of Armés (Terrugem, Sintra)
Roman villa of Lugar do Mercador (Mucifal, Sintra)
Promontorium Lunae (Cabo da Roca, Sintra)
Mons Lunae (Serra de Sintra)

In the current Cascais municipality
Roman villa of Alto da Cidreira (Alto da Cidreira, Cascais)
Roman villa of Vilares (Murches, Cascais)
Roman villa of Casais Velhos (Areia, Cascais)
Roman villa of Outeiro de Polima or Freiria (São Domingos de Rana, Cascais)
Archaeological Site of Espigão das Ruivas (Guincho Velho, Cascais)
Roman villa of Miroiço (Manique de Baixo, Cascais)

In the current Amadora municipality
Roman villa of Quinta da Bolacha (Amadora)

In the current Torres Vedras municipality
Roman baths of Cucos (another possible location for Chretina) (Cucos, Torres Vedras)
Roman villa of Freiria (Torres Vedras)

In the current Loures municipality
Roman villa of Almoinhas (Loures)
Roman villa of Frielas (Frielas, Loures)
Roman bridge at Frielas

Fall of the Roman Empire

Alans
Lisbon suffered invasions from the Sarmatian Alans and the Germanic Vandals, who controlled the region from 409 to 429.
The city was taken by the Visigoths under Wallia in 419.

Suebi
The Germanic Suebi, who established the Suebic Kingdom of Galicia (modern Galicia and northern Portugal), with capital in Bracara Augusta (today's Braga) from 409 to 585, also controlled the region of Lisbon for long periods of time.

In 457, while Framta was still ruling, Maldras led a large raid on Lusitania. The raiders sacked Lisbon by pretending to come in peace and, once admitted by the citizens, plundering the city.

In 468 the city of Lisbon was occupied by the Suebi under Remismund with the help of a native Roman governor named Lucidius, but in effect 
Roman dominion over the city had ended.

See also
History of Lisbon

References

External links
Olisipo map
Museu do Teatro Romano
Vias romanas – outros percursos em Sintra
Almoçageme e os itinerários das vias
Os mais recentes achados epigráficos do Castelo de S. Jorge, Lisboa
“Marcas de oleiro” em terra sigillata da Praça da Figueira (Lisboa) : contribuição para o conhecimento da economia de Olisipo (séc. I a.C. – séc. II d.C.)

History of Lisbon
Roman towns and cities in Portugal