[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Dakota War of 1862

ed in 1890 by the State of Minnesota to commemorate the two battles fought in New Ulm in 1862.  The monument recognizes the citizens of Blue Earth, Nicollet, and Le Sueur Counties who came to the aid of their neighbors in Brown County. The artwork at the base was created by New Ulm artist Anton Gag.

The "Hanging Monument" in Mankato, Minnesota, was a four-ton granite marker that read "Here Were Hanged 38 Sioux Indians: Dec. 26th, 1862." It was erected in 1912 by two Dakota War veterans, Judge Lorin Cray and General James H. Baker, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of "the city's most significant event". It originally stood in a grassy plot near the site of the mass execution of 38 Dakota men, but was moved in 1965 to the other side of a gas station, facing the main bridge into town. In 1971, the City of Mankato removed the monument altogether in response to American Indian Movement (AIM) leaders, as well as local citizens pushing for Mankato's designation as an "all American town" by the American Revolution Bicentennial Commission. In the mid-1990s, it disappeared from a city storage yard at Sibley Park, where it had been half-buried under sand. Its current whereabouts are unknown.
Reconciliation Park near downtown Mankato, dedicated in 1997 "to promote healing between Dakota and non-Dakota peoples." The park features a 67-ton statue of a buffalo by local sculptor Tom Miller and a large boulder with a quote from the late Dakota spiritual leader, Amos Owen. In 2012, the "Dakota 38" memorial was unveiled, listing the names of the 38 men who were executed there.
Acton State Monument, erected in 1909 to mark the location where the first blood was shed on August 17, 1862. Next to the monument, the Acton Incident historical marker – updated by the Minnesota Historical Society in 2012 – serves as a memorial to the five settlers who were murdered by four teenage hunters, on the eve of the U.S.–Dakota War of 1862.
Guri Endreson-Rosseland State Monument in the Vikor Lutheran Cemetery near Willmar, Minnesota. Dedicated to Mrs. Guri Enderson-Rosseland, who survived an attack at her home, and, in the following days, traveled the countryside assisting wounded settlers.
White Family Monument, near Brownton, Minnesota. All four members of the White family were killed on September 22 at their home on Lake Addie. The monument stands near the site of their home.
Lake Shetek State Park monument, to 15 white settlers killed there and at nearby Slaughter Slough on August 20, 1862
A stone monument with a plaque was erected in 1929 near the spot in Meeker County where Little Crow (Taoyateduta) was killed by Nathan Lamson.
West Lake Attack monument, in Lebanon Lutheran Cemetery, Peace Lutheran Church, New London, Minnesota. Dedicated to 13 white settlers of the Broberg and Lundborg families killed on August 20, 1862.

Commemorative events 
The annual Mankato Pow-wow, held in September, commemorates the lives of the executed men. 
Several memorial rides have taken place over the years since the executions. In 2012, for the 150th anniversary of the executions, the Dakota and Lakota memorial ride led by Jim Miller (Dakota) rode on horseback from Brule, South Dakota, reaching Mankato on the day of the anniversary.

In popular media
In the Laura Ingalls Wilder novel, Little House on the Prairie (1935), Laura asks her parents about the Minnesota massacre, but they refuse to tell her any details.
Frederick Russell Burnham begin Scouting on Two Continents with a description of his house being burned by the Dakota in 1862 while the baby Frederick survives hidden in a basket of corn husks in a field
The uprising plays an important role in the historical novel The Last Letter Home (1959) by the Swedish author Vilhelm Moberg. It was the fourth novel of Moberg's four-volume The Emigrants epic. These were based on the Swedish emigration to American and the author's extensive research in the papers of Swedish emigrants in archival collections, including the Minnesota Historical Society.
 These novels were adapted as the Swedish films The Emigrants (1971) and The New Land (1972), both directed by Jan Troell. The latter film particularly portrays the period of the Dakota Wars and the historical mass execution. Stephen Farber of The New York Times said "its portrait of the Indians is one of the most interesting ever caught on film" and this is "an authentic American tragedy".
 Poet Layli Long Soldier's poem "38" is about the massacre and was first published in Mud City Journal and later collected in her 2017 book Whereas.
 In 2007, Minnesota House of Representatives member Dean Urdahl published his historical fiction novel "Uprising" about the events of 1862 followed by the sequels "Retribution" in 2009 and "Pursuit" in 2011.
The Lost Wife, an historical fiction book published in 2023, recounts the story of a woman who travels west, marries, and tries to flee with her children when the uprising begins.