[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry Johnson (Louisiana politician)

in January 1844. Johnson served the remainder of the term until 1849. He served as Chairman of the Committee on Pensions. As senator he supported bills favoring the annexation of Texas, which had become an independent Republic after separating from Mexico. He also voted to repeal the tariff of 1846.

In 1848 Johnson lost a bid to remain in the Senate to Pierre Soulé, a Jacksonian-Democrat of French Creole descent. In 1850, he suffered a final political defeat, losing a race for U.S. Representative against Henry Adams Bullard (Whig).

Henry Johnson moved to New Roads in Pointe Coupée Parish and continued the practice of law.

Personal life 
After passing the bar, Johnson married Elizabeth Rousby Key, a daughter of Philip Barton Key by Ann Plater, a daughter of George Plater; Elizabeth's father was an uncle of Francis Scott Key and Anne Arnold Phoebe Charlton Key, who married Roger B. Taney. The couple had a family together.

Several years after the United States made the Louisiana Purchase, the Johnsons moved to the Territory of Orleans, in 1809. He was appointed as clerk of the Second Superior Court of the Territory. In 1811, he was appointed clerk of the newly formed St. Mary Parish in the southwestern part of the state.

Death
During the Civil War, Gov. Johnson remained in Pointe Coupee Parish. The state was controlled by the Union after the fall of New Orleans. He died in September 1864, near the close of the war, and was buried on his plantation, which lies at the confluence of Bayou Grosse Tête and Bayou Maringouin.

Sidney A. Marchand in his Story of Ascension Parish said that Johnson had bequeathed the land in Donaldsonville on which was built the present-day Ascension Episcopal Church (at the corner of Attakapas/Nicholls and St. Patrick streets).

References

External links

State of Louisiana: Louisiana Secretary of State: Henry S. Johnson (archived at Internet Archive)

1783 births
1864 deaths
19th-century American politicians
Democratic-Republican Party United States senators
Governors of Louisiana
Key family of Maryland
Louisiana Democratic-Republicans
Louisiana National Republicans
American planters
National Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives
National Republican Party state governors of the United States
People from Donaldsonville, Louisiana
People from New Roads, Louisiana
United States senators from Louisiana
Whig Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Louisiana
Whig Party United States senators
United States senators who owned slaves
Members of the United States House of Representatives who owned slaves