[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mobile, Alabama in the American Civil War

idual traffic of the local blockade runners.

On April 12, 1865, three days after the surrender of Robert E. Lee at Appomattox Courthouse, the city of Mobile surrendered to the Union army to avoid destruction following the Union victories at the Battle of Spanish Fort and the Battle of Fort Blakely.

Ironically, on May 25, 1865, the city suffered loss when some three hundred people died as a result of an explosion at a federal ammunition depot on Beauregard Street. The explosion left a  deep hole at the depot's location, sank ships docked on the Mobile River, and the resulting fires destroyed the northern portion of the city.

Notable leaders from Mobile
Among the more notable Civil War personalities from Mobile were Rear Admiral Raphael Semmes (an antebellum attorney in Mobile following his U.S. Navy service) and Brig. Gen. Zachariah C. Deas (a Mobile merchant and cotton broker whose brigade fought at the Battle of Chickamauga, where they routed the Union division of Philip H. Sheridan and killed Brig. Gen. William H. Lytle).

Mobile resident Augusta Jane Evans was a staunch states' rights activist who became a leading pro-Confederacy propagandist during the war. The novelist nursed sick and wounded Confederate soldiers at Fort Morgan on Mobile Bay. She also sowed sandbanks for the defense of the community, wrote patriotic addresses, and set up a hospital, Camp Beulah, near her residence. Augusta's propaganda masterpiece was Macaria, a novel that promoted national desire for an independent national culture and reflected Southern values as they were at that time.

Robert H. Slough served as the Mayor of Mobile throughout most of the Civil War, serving from 1862 until the war's end in 1865. His tenure was wrapped by that of former U.S. Minister to Mexico and Alabama state legislator John Forsyth Jr., who preceded Slough in 1861 and then succeeded him in 1865.

Dr. Josiah C. Nott of Mobile was a leading researcher into the causes of yellow fever. During the war, he was a surgeon and staff officer in the Confederate Army, and in charge of inspecting the military hospitals in Mobile. Two of his sons died in the war while serving in Alabama regiments.

See also
 Alabama in the American Civil War

References

 Bergeron Jr., Arthur, Confederate Mobile, Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1991. 
 Delaney, Caldwell. The Story of Mobile, Mobile, Alabama: Gill Press, 1953. 
 Thomason, Michael. Mobile: the new history of Alabama's first city. Tuscaloosa: University of Alabama Press, 2001.  
 National Park Service: Teaching with Historic Places: Fort Morgan and the Battle of Mobile Bay
 Flotte's Notes on Mobile, Alabama, History

Notes

External links
 Civil War Alabama
 Alabama Civil War Trails - the battle for Mobile
 The Siege of Mobile from Harper's Weekly, April 29, 1865

Further reading
 Amos, Harriet Elizabeth.  "All-Absorbing Topics:  Food and Clothing in Confederate Mobile."  Atlanta Historical Society Journal No. 22 (Fall-Winter, 1978)
 Amos, Harriet Elizabeth.  "City Belles:  Images and Realities of Lives of White Women in Antebellum Mobile," Alabama Review Vol. 34, No. 1 (January 1981)
 Amos, Harriet Elizabeth.  Cotton City:  Urban Development in Antebellum Mobile.  University, Alabama:  University of Alabama Press, 1985.
 Amos, Harriet Elizabeth.  "Social Life in an Antebellum Cotton Port:  Mobile, Alabama 1820-1860." Ph.D. dissertation, Emory University, 1979.

History of Mobile, Alabama
Alabama in the American Civil War
U.S. cities in the American Civil War