[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ontario Youth Parliament

The Ontario Youth Parliament (OYP), formerly the Ontario Older Boys' Parliament, is one of a number of provincial youth model parliaments across Canada. Each year, the organization holds a four-day debate conference on Family Day weekend for youth ages 14 to 21 from Ontario, Canada. The organization has roots within the United Church of Canada dating back to 1907. The first session of the Older Boys' Parliament met in the Ontario Legislative Building at Queen's Park in Toronto in January 1925. As a result, the OYP, as successor to the Older Boys' Parliament, is one of the oldest youth parliaments in Canada. Gordon Lapp of Brighton served as the first Premier. 

In 1969, the Older Boys' Parliament was succeeded by the OYP and is now a non-denominational Christian-based organization that is open to participants of all faiths. It combines components of parliament-style debate, social and leadership development activities and exploration of spirituality. The debate is modeled after the Legislative Assembly of Ontario, with mock legislation written by members of the youth cabinet on current issues facing youth in Canada. Social activities include two dances and a formal banquet, secret friends, and team-building games. The spiritual side of OYP is addressed through open nightly discussion on the theme chosen for that year and attendance at the host church's worship service.

Organization 
OYP has long operated as a non-denominational organization, although it maintains a spiritual element and relationship with the United Church as reflected in activities such as vespers. The Ontario Youth Parliament is overseen by a registered charitable organization, the executive of which is styled as a "senate". Delegates attend the annual session to debate legislation prepared by the cabinet, which is composed of delegates to the session.

Senate 
While the cabinet plans and runs each year's parliamentary session, the senate monitors the association's long term needs; specifically, maintaining policies and procedures, managing finances, and overseeing public relations. The senate is composed of the cabinet and any other interested parties, typically OYP alumni. To ensure that the organization remains "for youth, by youth," the cabinet always forms the majority of the senate. To perform the duties of the senate between meetings, a seven member board of directors is elected in rotation at senate meetings and sittings of OYP.

Cabinet 
The cabinet is composed of youth eligible to be delegates. The cabinet has the task of organizing the logistic, fiscal and legislative components of the parliament. In order to facilitate this task, cabinet meets four times between each year's session. To select and lead this group, a five member executive is elected by the delegates at each annual sitting. This group consists of the Premier, the Leader of the Opposition (colloquially known as the Lofo), the Registrar and Minister of Finance, the Minister of Individual Discipleship, and the Government House Leader.

Delegates 
The third group is composed of youth aged 14–21 whom are collectively referred to as delegates. Delegates attend only the main event on Family Day weekend and, along with members of cabinet, participate in debate over the legislation.

Annual sessions  

Ontario Youth Parliament is held each year from Friday to Monday on the Family Day weekend in February. Sessions are open to the public.

The structure of OYP matches that of constitutional tradition of the House of Commons, with a government, opposition, speaker and pages. The parliament is traditionally opened by a person acting as lieutenant-governor, a role that has been played by figures such as Moderator Robert McClure and Governor General Roland Michener.

Legislation is prepared throughout the year by the cabinet, usually centred around topics relevant to young people. Delegates at OYP have debated controversial political issues such as gay rights, environmental regulations and aboriginal autonomy. At the session, bills are presented and debated at several different sittings throughout the weekend. OYP is nonpartisan, which means that each delegate can express their opinion and vote freely. At the end of each debate, all delegates vote on whether the legislation should be passed or defeated. Any legislation passed by the majority is sent to the appropriate government offices in Toronto and Ottawa.

Sessions

2024 
The executive for OYP 2024 are: Premier Kieran Bodnar, Leader of the Opposition Erin Ralph, Registrar and Minister of Finance Erik Hansen, Minister of Individual Discipleship Zoe Fingas, and House Leader Ben Ralph.