[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Squadrismo

power, with thousands of squadristi marching through the Italian capital. King Victor Emmanuel III proceeded to appoint Mussolini to lead the new administration, but that did not stop squadrismo violence, and thousands of people in black shirts participated in squadrista militancy from 1920 to 1922.

After the March on Rome, fascism was torn between the state, which wanted to end all illegal violence, including squadrismo, and the fasci, including the squadre leaders, who were determined to maintain their power. To control the violence at last, Mussolini issued the Consolidated Public Safety Act in 1926, which delegitimised squadristi violence.

Conflict with Mussolini
In an effort to end the escalating violence between the socialist and the Squadistsi militias, Mussolini signed an interim Pact of Pacification on August 2 or 3, 1921 with the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) and General Confederation of Labour (CGL), which caused most ras in the northern provinces of Italy to denounce the peace pact. Mussolini had planned to assimilate the mostly-self-organising squadrismo into his movement, but the violence against socialists was compromising his strategy of not wanting to "lose his position on the left", which included the establishment of a Fascist Labor Party or National Labor Party.

A number of squadristi leaders voiced opposition to Mussolini's leadership and plastered posters in the city of Bologna that denounced "Mussolini as a traitor to Fascism". Some squadristi paramilitary units completely abandoned Mussolini's fascist movement. There were secret anti-Mussolini meetings that fixated on "Mussolini's lingering leftist loyalties", which included his leadership of the Italian Socialist Party (1912–1914) and his admiration for Vladimir Lenin. The historian Richard Pipes stated that during the turbulent times of infighting, "Mussolini would have been glad as late as 1920–21 to take under his wing the Italian Communists, for which he had great affinities".

Many prominent ras pushed for new leadership, lending their support to Gabriele D’Annunzio to "replace Mussolini". Grandi and Balbo sought an audience with the radical nationalist D’Annunzio in August 1921 and offered him a position to lead the squadristi in an "insurrectionary march on Rome". D’Annunzio was vague about in his reply. In September 1919, D’Annunzio and his force of 2,000 armed followers, primarily ex-soldiers, marched into Fiume and occupied it for fifteen months.

Mussolini went on the offensive and disparaged the squadrismo by declaring that provincial Fascism was "no longer liberation, but tyranny; no longer protector of the nation, but defense of private interests and of the dullest, deafest, most miserable caste that exists in Italy". In another terse response, Mussolini warned, "I shall defend this pact with all my strength, and if Fascism does not follow me in collaboration with the Socialists, at least no one can force me to follow Fascism".

Victory over Mussolini
Mussolini was unable to gain significant control over the squadrismo to preserve his old alliance of national syndicalists, revolutionaries and Futurists. At the Third Fascist Congress in Rome from November 7 to 10, 1921, Mussolini was pressured into conceding to the majority delegation of squadristi leaders and members, abandoning his plans for a “Fascist Labor Party” and accepting the party as an "association of the fasci and their storm squads". In return for his concessions, Mussolini was recognised as the undisputed leader of the newly renamed National Fascist Party.

The action squads were to become identified by their black shirts, a motif that ultimately coined the name Blackshirts and became the inspiration for Adolf Hitler's SA during the Third Reich. Mussolini and his followers selected the iconic black shirts of labourers in the Italian cities of Romagna and Emilia who had originally "adopted their uniforms from the anarchists".

See also
 Fascist Syndicalism

References

Italian Fascism
Paramilitary organisations based in Italy
Terrorism in Italy
Anti-communist organizations