[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yekta Uzunoğlu

cherová, František Janouch, Karel Jech, Květa Jechová, Svatopluk Karásek, Jaroslav Kořán, Dana Němcová, Karel Schwarzenberg, Jiřina Šiklová, Věněk Šilhán, Libuše Šilhánová, Jaromír Štětina, Petruška Šustrová.

In April 2006, Yekta Uzunoglu was presented the František Kriegel prize for civic courage.

In March 2007, Uzunoglu started an 11 days long hunger strike against his prolonged process, and many important public figures, including former president Václav Havel, joined him symbolically for one day. On 29 March 2007, Uzunoglu was sentenced to two years in prison, which he immediately appealed, describing it as "fashizoid" justice. Amnesty International declared their support of Uzunoglu. On 31 July 2007, Prague's Court of appeals heard the appeal and finally dropped all charges.

On 28 April 2017, Yekta Uzunoglu was arrested in Prague, but the next day he was released. According to Uzunoglu himself, the Turkish Embassy in Prague is behind the initiative of the police. The Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic with its finding of 13 February 2018 issue: III. ÚS 1920/17 Judge-Rapporteur prof. JUDr. Jan Filip CSc. stated that Yekta Uzunoglu's arrest on 28 April 2017 was unconstitutional. For more informations see press agency of Kurdistan Bakur

Allegations of the involvement of the Turkish government 

Yekta alleges that the police charges against him were part of a conspiracy orchestrated by the Turkish government under Tansu Çiller and former communists including former Czechoslovak foreign minister Jaromir Johanes who now lives in Turkey.

Turkey's arrest warrant in 2019 
In 2015 upon the request of MEP Jaromir Štětina, Vice-chair of European Parliament Security and Defence Committee, Yekta Uzunoğlu traveled with MEP Stetina to North Syria in order to investigate the situation of the war against the ISIS. After their return from the travel Uzunoglu shared some photographs from their visit on his Twitter page which were the same photographs that MEP Stetina posted on his personal Twitter account and these photos can also be found on official EU Parliament's web page. In January 2019 Turkey has issued an arrest warrant for Dr. Uzunoglu due to these photographs on his Twitter page. In order to prevent delivery of Uzunoglu, who is also a German citizen, to Turkey; Amnesty International, Members of European Parliement, Kurdish PEN club and many Czech famous personalities warned the German and the Czech governments.

Publications 
 Siverek Kültür Gazetesi (Siverek Culture Newspaper) -Dr. Yekta Uzunoğlu, together with Necati Siyahkan,- one of the leading Kurdish lawyers-, published the Siverek Culture Newspaper, 1970
 Ronahi (Light) - Kurdish magazine with which Yekta Uzunoğlu collaborated, 1971-1973
Láska u Kurdů (Love at the Kurds) - Czech language, Published in 1976-1979 samizdat, available in Libri Prohibiti Library
Země Kurdů (The Kurds' Country) - Czech language, Published in 1976-1979 samizdat, available in Libri Prohibiti Library
Legenda o Kurdech (The Legend of the Kurds) - Czech language, Published in 1976-1979 samizdat, available in Libri Prohibiti Library
 Le probleme Kurde (The Kurdish Problem) - By Prof. Joyce Blau, Sorbonne University - Prague, 1977
 Kurdische Alphabet (Kurdish Alphabet) - Bonn, 1982
MEHDI ZANA MUSS GERETTET WERDEN - Bonn, 1982
 Der kulturelle Völkermord an den Kurden in der Türkei (Cultural genocide of the Kurds in Turkey) - Bonn, 1982
 Brochure Passion der Kurden" (Passion of the Kurds) - with Prof. Pfeipfer as co-editor. Published by University of Dortmund and Bonn Kurdish Institute – Bonn, 1984
Musîka Kurdî-Kurdische Musik - with Kendal Nezan - Bonn, 1985, 
Hey lê - bi kurdî binivîsîne. (Hey Lady, Please Write in Kurdish) - Bonn, 1985
Kürdün Türküsü (A Song of Kurd) - written by Ihsan Aksoy. Bonn, 1985
 Kovara Mizgîn - 1983 / 1984 / 1985 - The journal edited by Yekta Uzunoğlu, Bonn Kurdish Institute
Plandayîna Malbatê (The Family Planning) - Dr. Yekta Uzunoglu : author and editor. Co-editors: PRO FAMILIA, Germany and IOOD London, UK., Bonn 1985
Kurdish-German and German-Nurdence Dictionary - Completion of Kurdish-German and German-Kurdish dictionaries. 1987
První Pomoc Na Místě Nehody (First Aid in an Accident) - Published by the Bonn Kurdish Institute
Poradce pro Kurdské ženy v SRN (Kurdish Women in Germany) - Bilingual booklet for immigrant women, written and advised by Yekta Uzunoğlu. 1984
Wenn Man ins Krankenhaus Musst (When You Have To Go To The Hospital) - Publisher: German Red Cross and Bonn Kurdish Institute. 1984
Antologie Kurdské Hudby (Kurdish Music Anthology) - Consists of 8 cassettes containing authentic Kurdish music. It was the largest anthology of its time ever. 1984
The Destiny of M.Karataş – A Story of a Man in Exile - Published in book and cassette form for illiterate Kurds. Bonn, 1985
 Kurdische Volksdichtung (Kurdish Folk Poetry),- Thomas Bois: Bonn Kurdish Institute, Bonn, 1986
 Kurdische Grammatik (Kurdish Grammar) - D. N. MacKenzie: Bonn Kurdish