[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Camp Nelson National Cemetery

f the appropriate graves, and maintain the grounds; duties include cutting the grass, pruning trees, clearing the roads of leaves in the autumn and snow in the winter, preparing the funeral shelter for services, disposing of litter, and interacting with the public to answer questions or find graves.

Access
Camp Nelson National Cemetery is best accessed by motor vehicle. It is located about  south of Lexington, Kentucky. The  nearest airport is Blue Grass Airport in Lexington. From there, one can take Man o' War Boulevard east for about five miles to Nicholasville Road. After turning south toward Nicholasville (U.S. Route 27), follow that road for about , and the cemetery will be on the left side, just before the bridge over the Kentucky River.

Camp Nelson National Cemetery is open to visitors everyday from dawn until dusk. The office and visitors' center is open Monday through Friday, from 8:00am to 4:00pm, except on federal holidays.

Notable interments
 William Fowler (1815–1862), first non-white Wisconsin legislator; sergeant in Company I, 21st Wisconsin Infantry Regiment, died of wounds suffered at Battle of Perryville.
 William M. Harris (1850–1878), Medal of Honor recipient; Private, Company D, 7th U.S. Cavalry, for action during the Battle of the Little Big Horn, Montana, during the Great Sioux War.

See also
 National Register of Historic Places listings in Jessamine County, Kentucky
 List of cemeteries in Kentucky

References

External links
 Camp Nelson National Cemetery
 Map of Camp Nelson National Cemetery (pdf)
 National Cemetery Administration
 Camp Nelson, Civil War Heritage Park
 Guide to the Camp Nelson photographs housed at the University of Kentucky Archives.
 
 

American Civil War army posts
Cemeteries on the National Register of Historic Places in Kentucky
American Civil War cemeteries
National Register of Historic Places in Jessamine County, Kentucky
United States national cemeteries
African-American historic places
African-American history of the United States military
Military history of African Americans in the American Civil War
Protected areas of Jessamine County, Kentucky
Kentucky in the American Civil War
Tourist attractions in Kentucky
1863 establishments in Kentucky