[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Leonas Bistras

e called, allowing the Christian Democrats to return to power. As the prospect of new elections waned and the Third Seimas was dissolved, Bistras, together with the other Christian Democrats, resigned from the government, leaving Smetona's Nationalists Union of Lithuania as the sole governing party.

Bistras assumed the leadership of the Christian Democrats in 1927, leading it through a difficult period. Smetona did not call for new elections to the parliament until 1936, severely limiting the activities and influence of the party. Party leadership was constantly persecuted and put under surveillance, and party congresses were banned in 1929. Apart from the pressure from the government, the Christian Democrats also struggled to maintain unity with their traditional allies (the Farmers' Association and the Labour Federation) as well as within their own ranks. The party, along with other opposition political parties, was finally banned in 1936.

Bistras was openly critical of the government during the period. In 1927, he was alleged to have influenced several military officers who attempted to force Smetona to form a coalition government. The intervention failed and Brisas fled Lithuania for Germany, only returning the following year. Starting with 1930, he, together with other Catholic leaders, criticized the government for their attempt to curtail the activities of religious organizations and, in 1935, he openly criticized the government in a speech at the Global Lithuanian Congress.

Until 1936, Bistras also edited newspaper Rytas (The Morning) giving a voice to Christian Democrats in Lithuania. The newspaper was often critical of the ruling Nationalists and Smetona, and was often a target of censure and fines. In 1928, the publication of the newspaper was suspended as a result of "infractions" and Bistras started publishing Sutemos (The Dusk) instead, expressing the editor's view of the situation in the country. Bistras had many political articles published in minority (especially Jewish) press, which was less subject to censure.

For his activities in inciting protests against the government, Bistras was sentenced in 1938 and sent to a three-month exile to Alytus, separating him from the political elite in Kaunas. His sentence was cut short and Bistras even returned to the government after Lithuania lost the Klaipėda Region after the German ultimatum of March 1939, serving on the 20th cabinet as the minister of education. Even as part of the government, Bistras maintained an explicitly cold relationship with Smetona, refusing to present the president with the work plan for his ministry.

Later life and death
In July 1940, Bistras was arrested, imprisoned in the Kaunas Prison and, without a trial, deported to the region of Archangelsk in 1941. Charges laid against him were related to the suppression of the Lithuanian Communist Party in the interwar Lithuania. Proving Bistras' involvement in implementing the suppression was not seen as necessary, his mere participation in the government and the Christian Democratic Party was enough. Due to health reasons, he was transferred to Atbasar in Kazakhstan, where he worked as a medic. In January 1945, he was sentenced again, for allegedly providing a fake certificate of absence, but was released seven months later and allowed to return to Lithuania. In Lithuania, he worked at the library of the Archdiocese of Vilnius. In 1950, he was again arrested, sentenced and sent to Siberia, only returning in 1954 or 1956. As he was not granted a pension or given work by the Soviet government, Bistras lived on donations from the people of Kaunas, where he died in 1971, three days before his 81st birthday. He was buried in Petrašiūnai Cemetery in Kaunas.

References

1890 births
1971 deaths
Politicians from Liepāja
People from Courland Governorate
University of Freiburg alumni
University of Geneva alumni
Academic staff of Vytautas Magnus University
Lithuanian military personnel in the Imperial Russian Army of World War I
Lithuanian Christian Democratic Party politicians
Prime Ministers of Lithuania
Ministers of Education of Lithuania
Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania
Ministers of Defence of Lithuania
Speakers of the Seimas
Lithuanian journalists
Prisoners and detainees of the Soviet Union
Burials at Petrašiūnai Cemetery
20th-century journalists