[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cole Inquiry

ntly claimed memory loss, inability to locate diaries and notes and notoriously, in the case of former AWB board chairman Trevor Flugge, hearing loss.

On 6 February 2006 the inquiry's terms of reference were extended to include the activities of BHP Billiton in relation to the Oil for Food Program.

On 16 February 2006 Commissioner Cole invited broadcast media into the inquiry's hearing room to record an invitation to anyone with information about kickbacks or the Iraqi oil-for-food scandal to appear before his inquiry. Cole emphasised that this appeal applied to anyone saying: "I am extending a specific invitation to any Member of Parliament, any member of the media, any public servant, or any member of the public who believes that they have information relevant to this aspect of the inquiry to provide any such information to those assisting me".

On 2 March 2006 counsel assisting, John Agius, threatened to serve search warrants on AWB following claims of memory lapses and loss of documents by a former company manager, Andrew McConville. This was countered by counsel for AWB who suggested that the search for documents by the company was being conducted in a rigorous manner and at considerable expense.

On 3 March 2006, Cole applied for the inquiry's terms of reference to be amended to extend the period of the inquiry for up to two months (i.e. from the end of March to May 2006). Prime Minister John Howard indicated the government's agreement to this request two days later.

Howard was asked to write and submit a statement in regard to this matter, and was cross examined on 13 April for 53 minutes. Howard previously stated to a media conference held in Sydney, "If asked I will naturally be happy to appear." "I've said all along that this is an utterly transparent process, which is not protecting the Government, which is designed to get to the truth of this matter and I am more than happy to comply with the request made by the commission."

Outcome
On 28 August 2009 the Australian Federal Police (AFP) decided to drop its investigation into the scandal in which wheat exporter AWB was found to have been funding the Iraqi regime in breach of UN sanctions. It was found that it was not even clear that breaching a UN sanction is a criminal offence and a conviction "was not in the public interest". The decision means no former employee or director of AWB will face criminal charges, although an investigation by corporate watchdog Australian Securities & Investments Commission continued. The AFP announced that the decision to drop the investigation was made after a review of the evidence by senior barrister Paul Hastings QC, who declared the prospect of convictions was limited and "not in the public interest".

In 2009, The Australian reported "It has hardly been a secret that the AFP investigation was under-funded and under-resourced, and it received little co-operation from AWB, which sees itself as a new entity, with all staff associated with the corrupt dealings having left." Hastings told the AFP that in his opinion there was no reasonable prospect of a conviction. It was not even clear that breaching a UN sanction is a criminal offence.

See also

 Oil-for-Food Program Hearings
 AWB Oil-for-Wheat Scandal

References

External links
Inquiry into certain Australian companies in relation to the UN Oil-For-Food Programme - inquiry's website
The Commissioner's reports - five volumes (PDF and HTML available)
Wheat Export Authority
Royal Commissions Act 1902 (Cth)
Independent Inquiry Committee into the Oil for Food Programme - Volker Inquiry website

Commentary

 - in depth report on the Cole Inquiry and the evidence before it 

Commonwealth of Australia royal commissions
Grain industry of Australia
2005 establishments in Australia
2006 disestablishments in Australia