[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iraqi Armenians

hey sang a song celebrating the dictator's birthday. Unknown to No One has been given a large amount of publicity in the post-Saddam era.

The famous singer Seta Hagopian is also of Armenian descent.

In the Kurdistan Region
The main city of Armenians, and the seat of the Armenian church, is Zakho. 

In 1915, some Kurds and tribes participated in, or supported the Armenian genocide along with the Ottoman Army. Other Kurds opposed the genocide. The Armenian populations in Iraqi Kurdistan have been in the region since the 1920s, after they were displaced in the Armenian genocide. Their numbers have increased considerably with waves of new immigration coming from Baghdad and other Iraqi regions after the toppling of Saddam. Armenians attribute their leaving towards the north to safety concerns. A Kurdish Government official representing the Armenian community reported to Araratnews in 2011 that Iraqi Kurdistan had 3,600–3,800 Armenians- but this number is likely much higher now due to population displacements due to ISIS and Kurdish annexations of disputed territory. The Armenians of Iraqi Kurdistan have two schools (in Erbil and Dohuk) and five churches (in Dohuk, Erbil, Avzrog, Havresk, Zakho).

The Armenians in Iraqi Kurdistan have one reserved minority seat in the parliament of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.

Armenian villages

Avzrog
A notable Armenian village exists in Avzrog, a village in the Iraqi province of Dohuk. There are in fact two Avzrogs: one populated by Armenians, and the other by Assyrians. Assyrians and Armenians maintain good relations as both were persecuted by Turks and Kurds in the Ottoman Empire. The name of the village comes from the Kurdish language:  (water) and  (yellow). The Armenian one is called Avzrog Miri, while the Assyrian is called Avzrog Shno.

The village was built for the first time in 1932 when the Armenians of Zakho and its suburbs decided to establish the village and settle in it. The village was destroyed in 1975 by Saddam Hussein and resettled with Arabs. In 1996, the town was repopulated with Armenians and the Arab tribes who settled in the village were driven out, and later on the local St Vartans church was reconsecrated and built in 2001. Additionally, although the villagers are Armenian, they do not speak Armenian but Kurdish. Armenians in Avzrog maintain their Armenian social identity like folklore, religion and names nevertheless. Avzrog has a total population of about 350 people.

The Armenian church of Avzrog is dedicated to Sourp Vartan.

Havresk
Havresk is an Armenian village founded in 1928 by Armenians fleeing Turkey in the Armenian genocide. It was a large and prosperous village during the 1950s, having an Artesian aquifer, library, church, and school. However, during the Al-Anfal Campaign it was destroyed and its Armenian residents forcibly evicted. It was rebuilt in 2005, however, and now has a population of 100 families. The village has 115 houses, a greenhouse, a school, and a church that was recently built in 2012. The town's mayor (mukhtar) is Murad Vardanian. The village is located roughly 5 miles southeast of Avzrog in the Plain south of Zakho.

The Armenian church of Havresk is dedicated to Sourp Sarkis.

Aghajanian
A small Armenian populated village of 20 houses was built in the Nineveh Plains of Iraq between the cities of Karemlash to the south and Bakhdida in the north. The village was created in order to accommodate Armenian refugees from Baghdad and other areas in Iraq. The village is named after the financier and developer of the village, the Assyrian politician and businessman Sarkis Aghajan Mamendo.

See also
Armenia-Iraq relations
Armenian diaspora
List of Iraqi Armenians
Religion in Iraq
Christianity in Iraq

References

Iraq
Iraq
+
Demographics of Iraq
Ethnic groups in Iraq