[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Holden Commodore (VN)

utive) included:
 4-speed automatic transmission
 Air conditioning
Optionals included:
 5.0-litre  V8 engine
 5-speed manual transmission
 Cruise control
 Holden Formula Bodykit
 Power Pack which incorporated:
 Front and rear power windows
 Power antenna
 Power mirrors
 15 inch alloy wheels

Calais 

The Calais was the top of the range luxury version of the VN Commodore range and was priced from A$31,265 when new. Its features (in addition to or replacing those of the Berlina) included:
 Cruise control
 Power Pack which incorporated:
 Front and rear power windows
 Power antenna
 Power mirrors
 15 inch alloy wheels
 Computer assisted trip/odometer
 Climate control (introduced in 1990)
 Remote central locking
 Alarm
Optionals included:
 5.0-litre  V8 engine, incorporating LSD
 5-speed manual transmission
 Country pack suspension
 Holden Formula Body kit
 Leather upholstery
 Limited slip differential (LSD)
 Sports suspension

Limited edition and other specification levels

Commodore Vacationer 

The 1990 Commodore Vacationer was a limited edition whose features complemented those of the donor Executive model and included:
 Special "Vacationer" badging
 Body coloured front and rear bumper and rocker panel (grey on Executive)
 Air conditioning
 Electric mirrors
 Tachometer
 Unique 14-inch wheel covers
 Two paint colours only—Alpine White or Azure Blue
 Commodore S seat trim (with red detail) minus driver's side lumbar support
 Optional 4-speed automatic transmission.

Commodore LE 
This limited edition of 100 sedans with the 3.8-litre V6 engine was exclusively made available to the Holden dealer group of New South Wales, for sale at the Sydney Motor Show in October 1989 at a price of $43,200. Its production ended in January 1990. Production totalled 100 units.

Codenamed "8VK19 V6M", it was based on a Commodore S and was featured Sydney Opera House-inspired decals on the front guards as well as HSV add-ons that included a SV3800 body kit and Momo steering wheel. It was available only painted in Alpine White.

It was part of the long-running Sydney-only Opera House models.

An unrelated version, known only as LE, was released in April 1991 with a limited number of cars available nationwide.

Commodore LS 
This limited edition was released in July 1991 and totalled 300 sedans for Australia (sold for $28,990) plus 130 sedans and 20 wagons for export to New Zealand, powered by the base 3.8-litre V6 engine.

It was the last released and cheapest VN Commodore, coinciding with the then imminent launch of the Ford Falcon (EB). Reportedly, at least one Australian sedan was fitted with a 5.0-Litre V8 engine and although no LS wagons were released in Australia, an enhancement pack was made available as an optional on any Commodore wagon.

Its interior features a Calais steering wheel, HSV retrimmed seats with matching Statesman striped velour inserts in seats and diagonal pattern door trims as part of the optional "Power Pack" (fitted as standard on the Calais). Externally, the car was available painted either Atlas Grey or Imperial Blue over Asteroid Silver two tone paint scheme, SV3800 body kit, body coloured boot garnish, smoked tail light lenses, LS decals on rear of front wheel arches, HSV logo moulded into driver side rear spoiler and Commodore LS decals on passenger side rear spoiler. The wheels consisted of HSV Sports Equipment alloy rims with 7 pairs of silver spokes forming a star pattern with recessed center HSV badge and wheel nuts.

Commodore Challenger 
This limited edition of 50 sedans was available between June 1990 and June 1991 exclusively for the Holden dealer group in Canberra.

Codenamed "8VK19 A9W", it was based on a Commodore Executive but upgraded to the S pack. In addition to body coloured wheel covers, bumper bars and bonnet garnish the car also featured the HSV 8 Plus grille, SV3800 red and silver pin stripes and Challenger decal pack on driver's side of the bootlid and trailing edges of rear doors below the body mouldings. It was only available in Alpine White and the interior featured a black Calais steering wheel, rear headrests and Challenger badge in dash pad.

Commodore GTS