[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Cecily of York

me to whom Cecily was married came from the Isle of Wight, which can be indirectly confirmed by the fact that Cecily, according to several sources, died on that island; at the same time, sources linking the origin of the third husband of the princess with the Isle of Wight call him John, not Thomas.

Cecily spent the first years of her marriage to Kyme on the Isle of Wight, where their two children, Richard and Margaret, were born, who were granted no royal titles or styles; nor did they enjoy any royal favours, lands, or positions at court, or any public recognition. Richard was married to a certain Agnes and had a daughter by her; Margaret was married to John Weatherby, by whom she also had a daughter. Cecily's descendants from her third marriage, recorded in the enhanced copy (dated 1602) of the heraldic visitation of Hampshire (1576) made by Smythe, Rouge Dragon Pursuivant at the College of Arms, can be traced for a hundred years later. Some sources wrote that Cecily died childless – perhaps because neither her third marriage, nor the children born from this union, were recognised by the king: in documents relating to the death and burial of Cecily (diem clausit extremum), by order of the king, she is designated as "the late wife of the late John, Viscount Welles".

Later life and death

Little is known about the last years of Cecily's life, or about her life in her third marriage. Mary Anne Everett Green writes that after her marriage to Thomas Kyme, the princess did not live in luxury and did not receive any help from the king: the only funds associated with Cecily were allocated by Henry VII on 11 December 1506 to John Gysell for a trip to her. At the same time, in 1506, the King's mother, Lady Margaret Beaufort, reserved a room for Cecily at Croydon Mansion and later paid part of the cost of the princess's funeral.

Cecily died on 24 August 1507. The place of her death is not exactly determined. According to one version, she died on the Isle of Wight and was buried in the local Quarr Abbey; according to this version, the monument on the grave of the princess was destroyed during the reign of her nephew Henry VIII during the Dissolution of the monasteries, and no description of the monument has survived. However, Rosemary Horrox disputes this, pointing to evidence from the Beaufort account books that states Cecily died at Hatfield, Hertfordshire, after a three-week sojourn there, and was buried at a place that must have been local, known as "The Friars" (perhaps the friary at Kings Langley, associated with the House of York and where Edmund of Langley, 1st Duke of York, was buried).

In art
A stained glass portrait of Cecily, originally from a larger "royal window" depicting Edward IV's family, is now in Glasgow's Burrell Collection. A modern copy has been placed in the much restored original group in the north transept of Canterbury Cathedral, and was also engraved in the book Acta Historica Reginarum Angliæ. These are, along with another window at Great Malvern Priory, Worcestershire, her only surviving memorials.

Ancestry

Notes

Citations

References

 
 Complete Peerage, volume 14 (1998), p. 626 (sub Welles, for the first marriage of The Princess Cecily to Ralph Scrope).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1469 births
1507 deaths
House of York
English princesses
Welles, Cecily, Viscountess
Wives of knights
Ladies of the Garter
People from Westminster
16th-century English women
15th-century English women
15th-century English nobility
First Ladies of the Bedchamber
Children of Edward IV of England
Court of Henry VII of England
Daughters of kings
Annulment