[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Selden

located near the junction of the Santa Fe Railroad and the Southern Pacific Railroad in southern New Mexico. For a time, Fort Selden was the leading candidate for the site of the new post, but because the railroads had brought spectacular growth to the El Paso, Texas area, Fort Bliss, was selected.

By 1890, criminals and raiding parties were no longer considered a threat as hostilities eventually lessened and the fort was no longer needed. Like many small forts in the American Southwest, the government decommissioned the fort and it was abandoned for the last time in 1891. On 20 January 1891, Lt. James Brett, commanding a small caretaker force, filed the final post return, which reported:
"All public property from this post having been disposed of, it was abandoned on this date."

Fort Selden Historic Site

For decades, the ruins of Fort Selden were consumed by the ravages of rain, snow and wind. Vandals, souvenir hunters and treasure-seekers added to its demise. In 1963, the land encompassing Fort Selden was donated to the state by Harry N. Bailey, a longtime resident of the area. In 1970, the fort was listed on the National Register of Historic Places and in 1974, the fort was declared a New Mexico State Monument. It is overseen by the New Mexico Historic Sites (formerly State Monuments) Division of the New Mexico Department of Cultural Affairs.

The present day ruins are available for viewing via an interpretive trail. A visitor center offers exhibits on frontier and military life. Fort Selden Historic Site is located  north of Las Cruces, New Mexico, off Exit 19 of Interstate 25, near Radium Springs, New Mexico.

See also

 National Register of Historic Places listings in Doña Ana County, New Mexico

References

External links

 Photo Overview of buildings at Fort Selden c. 1875
 New Mexico State Monuments
 New Mexico Department of Cultural Affairs
 Fort Seldon
Fort Seldon Monument
Fort Seldon, Las Cruces
Fort Seldon, New Mexico

Robledo, Paraje de
Selden
Military and war museums in New Mexico
Museums in Doña Ana County, New Mexico
History museums in New Mexico
History of Doña Ana County, New Mexico
Ruins on the National Register of Historic Places
Selden
1865 establishments in New Mexico Territory
1891 disestablishments in the United States
1890s disestablishments in New Mexico Territory
National Register of Historic Places in Doña Ana County, New Mexico
Buildings and structures in Doña Ana County, New Mexico