[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Barbette (performer)

end of Barbette's performing career is attributed to a number of causes including a fall, pneumonia, polio, or some combination of the three. All generally agree that whatever the cause, Barbette was left in extreme pain and in need of surgery and extensive rehabilitation to allow him to walk again.

He became the artistic director and aerialist trainer for a number of circuses, including Ringling Bros. and the Shrine Circus. His work with Ringling Bros. has been described as "reinvent[ing] the aerial ballet". The Bird Cage Girls, The Swing High Girls, The Whirl Girls and the Cloud Swing Girls were among the female aerialist troupes whose routines were Barbette's specialty. He created the circus sequences for the Orson Welles-produced Broadway musical Around the World.

Barbette served as a consultant on a number of films, including the circus sequences for Till the Clouds Roll By (1946) and The Big Circus (1959), and was hired to coach Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis on gender illusion for the film Some Like It Hot (1959)  Cocteau biographer Francis Steegmuller wrote a profile of Barbette for The New Yorker in 1969 entitled "An Angel, A Flower, A Bird". Barbette has a brief cameo in the jazz club scene which opens Curtis Harrington's film Night Tide (1961). Barbette created the aerial ballet for Disney on Parade and toured with it in Australia from 1969 through 1972.

Barbette spent his last months in Texas, living in Round Rock and Austin with his sister, Mary Cahill, often in severe pain. He committed suicide by overdose on August 5, 1973. He was survived by his sister Mary and a half-brother, Sam Loving. Barbette was cremated and his ashes were buried in Round Rock Cemetery.

Cultural legacy
In addition to Cocteau's essay Le Numéro Barbette and his appearance in Le Sang d'un Poete, Barbette also inspired the characterization of "Death" in Cocteau's play Orphée. The book Barbette, collecting Cocteau's essay, the New Yorker profile by Steegmuller, Man Ray's photographs and other material, was published in 1989.

Barbette may have been the inspiration for the 1933 German film, Viktor und Viktoria, which features a plot about a woman pretending to be a female impersonator, whose gimmick of removing her wig at the end of her act is "inspired by [Barbette's] signature gesture." Viktor und Viktoria was remade in 1935 (First a Girl), 1957 (Viktor und Viktoria) and 1982 (Victor Victoria, which inspired a 1992 Broadway musical of the same name).

Alfred Hitchcock based a character in the 1930 film Murder! on Barbette. Different Fleshes is a book-length poem about Barbette written by Albert Goldbarth. It won the Voertman Poetry Award from the Texas Institute of Letters. In 1993, performance artist John Kelly, under commission from the Brooklyn Academy of Music, based his piece Light Shall Lift Them on him. Barbette's story is also told in the play, Barbette, written by Bill Lengfelder and David Goodwin and first presented in Dallas, Texas, in 2003.  A French restaurant in Minneapolis is named Barbette after the aerialist.

Notes

References
 Cocteau, Jean & Ray, Man (1989). Barbette. .
 Cullen, Frank, Florence Hackman & Donald McNeilly (2007). Vaudeville, Old & New: An Encyclopedia of Variety Performers in America. Routledge. .
 Gewirtz, Arthur, James J. Kolb, Hofstra University (2004). Art, Glitter, and Glitz: Mainstream Playwrights and Popular Theatre in 1920s America. Greenwood Publishing Group. .
 Hammarstrom, David Lewis (1980). Behind the Big Top. New Jersey, A. S. Barnes and Co., Inc. .
 Kibler, M. Alison. Rank Ladies: Gender and Cultural Hierarchy in American Vaudeville. UNC Press. .
 Lyford, Amy. "'Le Numéro Barbette': Photography and the Politics of Embodiment in Interwar Paris." Collected in Chadwick, Whitney & Tirza True Latimer (2003). The Modern Woman Revisited: Paris Between the Wars. Paris, France, Rutgers University Press. .
 Tait, Peta (2005). Circus Bodies: Cultural Identity in Aerial Performance. Routledge. .
 Wilmeth, Don B., & Tice L. Miller (1996). Cambridge Guide to American Theatre. Cambridge University Press. .

External links

 
 

1899 births
1973 suicides
1973 deaths
American circus performers
American drag queens
Tightrope walkers
Trapeze artists
Vaudeville performers
Drug-related suicides in Texas
LGBT people from Texas
People from Round Rock, Texas
20th-century circus performers
20th-century American LGBT people