[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dismal Key

nd shell tools. The modern surface is a sandy loam. The ceramics are classified as late Glades I period, from 500 to 750. Two shell samples yielded calibrated radiocarbon dates of 400-580 and 450-620. This time period corresponds to that in which the shell fields at Fakahatchee Key were constructed.

A long (about ), narrow and relatively straight low shell ridge extends from the southeastern end of the island, running to the south of the shell ring. It is similar to a feature at Key Marco, and has been compared to a breakwater. The structure is composed of clean, unbroken oyster shells, with no artifacts. A shell sample yielded a calibrated radiocarbon date of 300 to 490

Mounds and ridges
Partially surrounding the shell fields is an arc of mounds, covering about  Four of the mounds are  or more long, at least  wide, and  to  high. Flanking the large mounds are eight smaller mounds  to  tall. Three of the largest mounds are centrally located, with a canal leading between two of the tallest mounds. The second largest mound,  tall, is at the northern edge of the shell works. The tallest mound has a ramp to the shell fields. The third tallest mound has a ramp leading away from the shell fields, to a zone of shell ridges and "water courts". Shell samples from the tops of the largest mounds yielded calibrated radiocarbon dates of 580 to 860.

A dozen finger ridges,  to  wide and  to  m long, radiate out from the arc of mounds towards the water. The finger ridges are separated from each other by canals. Several of the finger ridges are associated with "water courts", depressions deep enough to retain water. Some may have stored rain water for drinking, while others, with a connection to open water, may have served as fish traps. The finger ridges are also constructed from clean, whole oyster shells, but are covered by a midden layer of black earth and shells with many artifacts and fish bones. Shell samples from the lower levels of the finger ridges yielded calibrated radiocarbon dates of 660 to 810, while samples from below the midden layer yielded dates of 990 to 1290. Some of the ceramics found in the midden layer are attributed the Glades IIIa period, 1200 to 1400. There is no evidence of occupation of Dismal Key after that period (until the 20th century).

Hermits
Dismal Key has been inhabited by hermits at times during the 20th century. A house was built in the island around 1913. A cistern collecting rainfall from the roof of the house is the only regular source of fresh water on the island. 
Archaeologist Aleš Hrdlička found a settler named Gandeese on Dismal Key when he visited it in 1918. Eardley Foster Atkinson settled on Dismal Key in the early 1950s. After Atkinson's death, Al Seely moved to Dismal Key, and was living there in 1988. A hermit known only as Niranjan was living on Dismal Key in 1992. The island was unoccupied in 2003.

In popular culture

Dismal Key is the locale for the second half of the novel Nature Girl by Carl Hiaasen.

A fictional airport on Dismal Key is the scene of episode 1 of the Finder television show.

Citations

References

External links
Topographic Map of Dismal Key

Islands of Collier County, Florida
Islands of Florida
Shell middens in Florida
Archaeological sites in Florida
Shell rings