[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Frederick, Margrave of Baden-Durlach

roduced a Church Order. George Frederick was aware that he could achieve his goal of a united Lutheran margraviate of Baden only with the support of the people. In return for approval of taxes to finance his defense policies, he conceded to the Estates the right to have a say in religious questions.

As early as 1603 George Frederick founded, in cooperation with the Estates of Upper Baden an exchange bank, which also managed orphan's pensions and later developed into a deposit bank.  This bank was also meant to organize the trade in wine and grain and eliminate Jewist merchants.  It also helped the margraviate to overcome the market crisis of the "Kipper und Wipper" period.

He initiated the codification of the civil code of Baden. The resulting statute has been describe as "the most thorough of any of the German territorial states".  It was published in 1622, but due to the Thirty Years' War, it could not be brought into force until 1654, under his son and successor Frederick V.  It remained in force until 1809.

In 1613, he had a religious dispute with Duke Francis II of Lorraine. He intended to argue the issue himself. This failed, however, when Francis, against an earlier agreement, sent Jesuits to argue the Catholic side of the dispute.

George Frederick saw the deteriorating situation in the empire, and in his own principality in particular, and studied not only theology, but also military themes.  He was informed the Knight academy that Count John VI of Nassau-Dillenburg had founded in Siegen in 1616.  Between 1614 and 1617, George Frederick wrote a treatise on modern warfare for his sons Frederick, Charles and Christopher; this treatise was never published in print.

Outbreak of the Thirty Years' War 

Under Catholic influence, the ongoing court case before the Reichskammergericht about the ongoing occupation of Upper Baden threatened against George Frederick in 1622.  He reacted with an armed intervention in the Bohemian Revolt, a conflict that formed the initial phase of the Thirty Years' War.

In 1608, George Frederick joined the Protestant Union. He was appointed as a general of the Union, a position which he held until it was dissolved in May 1621.

On 19 August 1612, George Frederick concluded a defensive alliance with the Protestant cities of Bern and Zurich, with which he wanted to protect Upper Baden, as it was enclosed by territories belonging to Further Austria.  When the war broke out, his allies failed to provide military assistance.  However, the alliance did enable George Frederick to recruit mercenaries in Switzerland in 1621 and 1622.

The bishop of Speyer, Philipp Christoph von Sötern, felt threatened by the surrounding Protestant powers and in 1615, he began expanding his residence in Udenheim into a fortress.  He changed the name Udenheim into Philippsburg and began constructing Philipsburg Fortress, despite protests by the imperial city of Speyer, the Electorate of the Palatinate and the Margraviate of Baden.  In 1618, Elector Palatine Frederick V, George Frederick and the city of Speyer decided to raze the fortress.  It was nevertheless completed in 1623.

From March to June 1620 George Frederick blocked the road from Breisach to Freiburg by order of the Protestant Union, operating from a fortified camp at Ihringen.  The goal was to prevent the passage of mercenary troops of Bavaria and the Catholic League from the Alsace to their assembly points at Lauingen and Dillingen on the Danube.  Nevertheless, after Emperor Ferdinand II gave assurances that certain troops had been recruited for himself and not for Bavarian/Catholic League army, George Frederick allowed the three regiments to pass and had to put up with being called naïve when these regiments joined the army of Duke Maximilian I of Bavaria.

Wimpfen campaign 
In 1621, George Frederick began recruiting troops to campaign against the Catholic forces, which had begun a successful advance in 1620. In order not to lose his Margraviate to an imperial ban for waging war on the emperor, he abdicated in 1622, in favour of his son, Frederick V.

In the spring of 1622, after the Estates granted him a special war tax for three years, he had between  and  mercenaries at his disposal, with a relatively large amount of artillery, in addition to the regiment that would remain behind to defend Baden.  On 24/25 April 1622, he began a campaign against the Emperor and his Catholic allies.  However, he arrived too late to participate in the Battle of Mingolsheim on 27 April, where the Palatinate commander Count Ernst von Mansfeld crushingly defeated Lieutenant General Tilly of the Catholic League.