[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ego-dystonic sexual orientation

ut are broadly such as serve approved social and biological purposes." The description of homosexuality also included the line, "Code homosexuality here whether or not it is considered as a mental disorder," which acknowledged the lack of professional consensus on homosexuality as a mental disorder.

After ego-dystonic homosexuality was removed from the DSM-III-R, the American Psychological Association passed a policy statement, drafted by the Committee on Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Issues, that urged its members to not use the diagnoses of homosexuality or ego-dystonic homosexuality listed in the ICD-9, DSM-III, or future editions of either manual. It specifically noted: "the next revision of the ICD is not anticipated to be completed until 1992 and may, according to current proposals, then contain the 'ego-dystonic homosexuality' diagnosis which APA also opposes."

In the process of developing the ICD-10 (which was adopted by the WHO in 1990), the authors decided to delete the category of homosexuality. They initially considered replacing it with three diagnoses: "ego-dystonic sexual orientation associated with heterosexuality," "ego-dystonic sexual orientation associated with homosexuality," and "ego-dystonic sexual orientation associated with bisexuality." Eventually the decision was made to simplify these into one category, "ego-dystonic sexual orientation," which was defined in the ICD-10 as:

The diagnosis was located within section F66, "psychological and behavioural disorders associated with sexual development and orientation," and the following note was included in that section: "Sexual orientation by itself is not to be regarded as a disorder."

Removal from the ICD 
The World Health Organization was increasingly called on to remove ego-dystonic sexual orientation from the ICD, including by the American Psychological Association, which recommended removing the section of categories related to sexual orientation (part F66), noting that they were "historically rooted in and support continuing unscientific stigmatization of homosexuality by health professions."

As part of the development of the ICD-11, the WHO appointed a Working Group on the Classification of Sexual Disorders and Sexual Health to make recommendations on part F66. In 2014 the working group recommended deletion of part F66 due to a lack of clinical utility, a lack of usefulness in public health data, and the potential for negative consequences, including the risk of these categories lending support to "ineffective and unethical treatment" such as conversion therapy.

In reference to ego-dystonic sexual orientation, the working group noted that although the description of the category includes gender identity and also could theoretically be applied to straight people, "the intent, at least historically, was to address a clinical situation in which individuals express a desire to develop heterosexual attractions they do not feel or to relieve distress about an unwanted homosexual orientation."

The working group named that lesbian, gay, and bisexual people often report higher levels of distress than straight people, but research has shown that this distress is due to higher levels of social rejection and discrimination, and distress that stems from societal stigma cannot be considered a mental disorder. It named that stigma around physical illness and poverty is also likely to cause distress, but this distress is not considered a mental disorder under the ICD. Echoing sentiments voiced 30 years before by Robert Cabaj, the working group also noted that "social and political disapproval has at times resulted in the abuse of diagnoses—especially psychiatric diagnoses—to harass, silence or imprison people whose behaviour violates social norms or challenges existing authority structures."

It concluded, "It is not justifiable from a clinical, public health or research perspective for a diagnostic classification to be based on sexual orientation" and that the needs of lesbian, gay, and bisexual people can be addressed under other diagnostic categories, "in a manner consistent with good clinical practice, existing human rights principles and the mission of WHO."

Following the publication of the working group's report in 2014, it was peer reviewed by a variety of other experts from countries around the world, including some that criminalize homosexuality, and none of them argued against the working group's recommendations. The draft ICD-11 was then extensively field tested in countries including Brazil, India, Lebanon, Mexico, and South Africa, and voted on by ministers of health from more than 170 WHO member countries.