[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 1st Arkansas Infantry Regiment (Union)

nated Col. Johnson which was unanimously agreed upon. On November 23 the election, in which the citizens voted, was held and Johnson won. In December Johnson was granted a leave of absence from the army and departed to Washington, D.C., where he would remain away from his regiment for nearly a year.

Winter At Waldron 
On November 6, the First Arkansas was ordered by Brigadier General John McNeil to occupy the small town of Waldron, located roughly 45 miles south of Fort Smith. Despite the capture of Fort Smith in September, Confederate actively in the region was strong and as such Waldron would serve as the jumping off point for various expeditions and scouts to hunt down rebel forces, often at the direction of Col. Johnson. One such scout occurred on November 13 when Captains Vanderpool and Smith, both of Companies C and G respectively, with around 100-150 men, attacked a confederate camp near Mount Ida. Here they killed 16 and took a similar number as prisoners, including a confederate Major. The attack was a complete surprise and as a result they left behind thousands of pounds of bacon and 10,000 rounds of ammunition which was subsequently captured.

Three weeks following the successful raid at Mount Ida, Col. Johnson led another expedition in the same direction, though this time as far Arkadelphia. Part of his command included Company C which was mounted for the occasion. They reached Mount Ida on December 4 but found no rebels. Johnson then ordered a series of scouts to be sent out across the region. On December 5 Johnson returned to Waldron as his cavalry and battery horses were to worn out to push any further south, though some of his scouts did continue on where they engaged in brief skirmishing and took prisoners.

At Waldron, however, the First Arkansas would face a far more dangerous threat than confederate guerrillas and bushwackers, that being the harsh winter of northwest Arkansas. Enduring heavy snowfall and low temperatures, which reportedly reached as low as negative 12 degrees, the men of the First Arkansas would constantly be on duty searching for confederates, and as a result disease and desertion would plague the regiment. Despite their condition the regiment continued to see more enlistments. In January 1864 three privates from Company G were killed by confederate forces near Waldron. By the time the regiment left Waldron in February, they had lost roughly one third a companies worth of men to disease and desertion but gained 43 new recruits.

Camden Expedition 
In the spring of 1864, the Union Army would launch its last major offensive in Arkansas as part of the ill-fated Red River Campaign. The campaign involved sending the union army in Louisiana to attack the northwestern portion of that state from the south, while the union army in Arkansas was to attack from the north. From there the two armies would meet at Shreveport and then march into Texas. The Arkansas portion of the campaign, known as the Camden Expedition after the fact, was led by Major General Fredrick Steele. In March General Steele, with two divisions, began the offensive and marched south from Little Rock. Union forces in the northwest, which had been organized into the “Frontier Division” under Brigadier General John Thayer, were ordered to link up with Steele at Arkadelphia by April 1.

The First Arkansas, commanded by Lt. Col. Searle, departed Fort Smith on March 24, serving as part of the 1st Brigade of the Frontier Division under Colonel John Edwards. The divisions march was slow and cumbersome, and the deadline of April 1 came and went. Steele, having reached Arkadelphia, waited for Thayer and his division for a few days before deciding to continue south without them, hoping to contact them soon. On April 9 the two forces met at the Little Missouri River but instead of pushing further south Steele ordered the army to head northeast towards the town of Camden to resupply his large and hungry force, a move supported by his divisional commanders.