[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paul Cook (footballer)

d Rovers to a 6th place league finish in his first season in charge. Cook's second season saw him guide the bit o' red to fourth in the league and thus secure a UEFA Cup place.

Cook departed in January 2009 by mutual consent, but soon returned to Sligo a few weeks later after his initial departure.

In his third season, under severe financial constraints, Cook managed a sixth place finish in the league. In addition, Cook guided Rovers to the final of the FAI Cup which took place on 22 November 2009. Cook's Sligo Rovers side lost 2–1 to Sporting Fingal, despite holding a one-goal lead with seven minutes remaining, a huge disappointment for Cook, Rovers and the people of Sligo. 

Cook would soon redeem himself from the cup shortcomings of 2009, with his first piece of silverware as Sligo Rovers manager coming in September 2010, after a 1–0 win over Monaghan United in the final of the League Cup. In November 2010, he brought the FAI Cup back to the north-west, after beating Shams (Shamrock Rovers) on penalties, with Rovers goalkeeper Ciaran Kelly saving all 4 penalties. The 2010 FAI Cup Final was the first major trophy by Cook for Sligo Rovers.  The 2010 League of Ireland season also saw Cook guide Rovers to a 3rd place league finish, securing UEFA Europa League action for the 2011 season. 

In November 2011, Cook won a successive FAI Cup following a 4–1 penalty shootout win against Shelbourne. Cook also guided Sligo to 2nd place in the League of Ireland in his final season in charge.

Accrington Stanley
Following his success in Ireland, Cook was appointed manager of Accrington Stanley on 13 February 2012. He led the team to finish 14th in League Two at the end of the 2011/12 season and continued to manage the side for the opening months of the following campaign.

Chesterfield
On 25 October 2012, Cook joined League Two rivals Chesterfield on a two-and-a-half-year contract, taking over from Tommy Wright, who had been in charge of the Derbyshire club on a caretaker basis following the departure of John Sheridan. The end of his first season saw Cook guide Chesterfield to eighth position finishing just two points outside the play-off zone.

The following season saw Cook guide Chesterfield to the 2013/14 League Two title.

The following campaign saw Chesterfield finish 6th in League One and the play-offs before losing to eventual play-off winners Preston North End.

Portsmouth
On 12 May 2015, Cook was appointed manager of League Two club Portsmouth after Portsmouth met Cook's release clause in his contract at Chesterfield. Cook guided Portsmouth to the League Two title in the 2016/17 season.

Wigan Athletic
On 31 May 2017, Cook was appointed manager of newly relegated League One club Wigan Athletic on a three-year contract, after a compensation package was agreed with Portsmouth. He led Wigan to the League One title and on an impressive FA Cup run that claimed three shocks against top flight opponents West Ham United, AFC Bournemouth and Manchester City. Cook resigned as Wigan manager on 29 July 2020, following the club's relegation from the Championship due to a 12-point deduction after the Latics entered administration.

Ipswich Town
On 2 March 2021, Cook was appointed manager of Ipswich Town on a contract until 2023. Cook's first match in charge was a 3–1 defeat away at Gillingham. His first victory as Ipswich manager came in his third game in charge, a 1–0 home win over Plymouth Argyle. On 7 April 2021, Ipswich Town was taken over by US investment group Gamechanger 20 Limited, with the club confirming that Cook would remain as manager under the new ownership. Ipswich finished 9th in League One at the end of the 2020/21 season.

Ahead of the 2021–22 season, Cook oversaw a major turnover in both the playing squad and coaching staff, backed by the club's new US owners. Over a dozen first team players from the previous season departed with 19 new players joining. The players that departed included longtime club captain Luke Chambers, first team regulars such as Flynn Downes, Andre Dozzell, Gwion Edwards, Alan Judge, Emyr Huws and Teddy Bishop, and 2020–21 player of the season James Wilson. Despite these changes and many tipping the club for promotion, Ipswich made a poor start to the season, taking only two wins in their opening 10 matches. On 4 December 2021, with the team sat in 11th and 7 points adrift of the playoffs, Cook was sacked by the club. Having been in charge for just over 9 months, Cook is the second shortest serving manager in the club's history. Cook argued that he deserved more time in an interview a month after his dismissal, stating "If the new ownership had sat down and said to me at the start that if we didn't have instant success then [I would] be gone, then I wouldn't have stayed. That's my only regret."

Return to Chesterfield
On 10 February 2022, Cook was appointed manager of Chesterfield, returning to the National League club seven years after leaving.