[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 1997 Albanian civil unrest

The American evacuation of civilians Operation Silver Wake ends and most U.S. Marines return to their ships offshore.
 27 March: The Democratic Party claimed that relations between Greek and Albanian peoples had always been excellent and the Greek extremist groups did not represent all Greek people.

 28 March: Otranto tragedy. In the Otranto channel, an Albanian ship run by a Vlora gang was rammed and sunk by an Italian naval vessel by mistake. 82 refugees died. A "National Assembly of Committees of the South" was held. Opposition political figures participated. They demanded the President's resignation. They rejected the "Government of National Reconciliation." The leaders of these committees were former exponents of the Enver Hoxha regime. In the village of Levan, the biggest massacre of the affair occurred. 24 people were killed by clashes between roma and a gang. A total of over 110 died. United Nations adopted resolution no. 1101 for humanitarian aid.
 29 March: 5 were killed in South and Berat.
 30 March: President Berisha and Prime Minister Fino sent condolences to the families of Otranto victims. Albania requested an international investigation of Otranto.
 31 March: Proclamation of national mourning in honour of the Otranto victims. Ismail Kadare stated in the Italian media that "it is shocked by this tragedy and that the authority of government and the President need to resume in place."

April 
 1 April: Leaders of the Democratic Party debated the resignation of Berisha and Shehu. Fino urged the Socialist Party to withdraw from the 28 March agreement with the Committee of the South.
 3 April: Police made gains in restoring order in Tirana. Special Forces take control of Berat.
 4 April: The U.S. Embassy stated that it would not meet with any Salvation Committee and that the only legitimate institutions are the government and president.
 5 April: Armed gangs ruled Pogradec.
 7 April: Dozens of people in Fier were wounded and 5 killed, including two children. The Haklaj family led the riots. 3 were killed in Durrës.
 8 April: In Gramsh clashes broke out between local gangs and another from Laçi. The city had become a center of arms sales.
 12 April: Leka Zog arrived in Tirana, along with the royal court. Dozens of mentally ill escape from Elbasan.
 13 April: Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi visited Vlore with Albanian Zani Çaushi as his bodyguard.
 15 April: Operation Alba, an international army of 7000 troops under the direction of Italy, began to arrive in Albania. The first forces deployed in Durrës. Normality returned to Tirana. Held a successful operation to apprehend criminals Gramsh and collecting looted weapons.
 17 April: Political parties agreed to hold elections on 29 June.
 18 April: A bomb exploded in the courtyard of the University of Elbasan.
 19 April: A repository rocket explodes in Gjirokastra. Fino met with Leka Zog.
 21 April: Multinational forces deployed in Vlora. Criminal gangs attacked and spoiled the city of Gramsh and terrorized citizens in Çorovodë.
 22 April: A bomb exploded near ex local "Flora" in Tirana.
 23 April: International forces choose not to work with any "committee of the South."
 24 April: Police Station Attacked in Elbasan. Leka Zog visited Vlore.
 26 April: Council of Europe demanded the disarmament of "illegal" Salvation Committees. 4 children injured by a bomb in Gjirokastra. In Shpërthehen 35 meters of train tracks were demolished.
 28 April: In Lushnje, a crowd of roughly 4,000 gathered to protest. The protest was initiated by the Committee of Public Salvation. Demands included Berisha's resignation, reform of the electoral process, emergency parliamentary elections then scheduled for 2001, and reimbursement of 100% of all financial losses. Leaders of the Committee joined the rally.
 29 April: Schools reopened in the North. Vlora continued under the power of the gangs.
 30 April: 27 people left dead by the explosion of a weapons depot in Burrel. Three warehouses exploded in Berat.

May 
 4 May: Dozens were killed in Shkodra, Berat, Tirana and Durrës.
 10 May: Special Forces struggled with armed gangs in Gramsh. Gramsh Rescue Committee prevented distribution of newspapers in the city.
 14 May: Kakavisë attacked the border. Remains blocked the Berat-Lushnje road. A military post was attacked in Berat.
 15 May: A warehouse in Gjirokastra exploded, injuring 14 people and killing 4 others. An entire family was killed in Pogradec.
 19 May: Violence continued in the south. Killings continued in Vlora. In Memaliaj police and Rescue Committee joined forces against one of the gangs.
 21 May: Continued attacks against bridges in Gjirokastra. Violence continued in Saranda, Vlora, Shkodra and Durrës.
 23 May: In Cërrik city gangs attacked a Special Forces armored vehicle. 6 Special Forces of the Republican Guard were killed by grenade attacks. 3 others were captured and taken hostage.