[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stirling Colgate

ally the Vela satellites. However, he also raised the possibility of false alarms caused by supernovae.

Despite encouragement by Teller to follow up on the detonation of the 50-megaton Czar bomb which the Soviet Union had just detonated, Colgate decided to continue his prior research on supernovae.

In 1966 his research with Johnson and White finally emerged in a paper carefully edited by Chandrasekhar.

Colgate went on to serve as the president of New Mexico Tech in Socorro, New Mexico from the beginning of 1965 through the end of 1974. While there he conducted research programs in astrophysics and atmospheric physics as well as leading the college.

Many of his projects had colorful names inspired by the experimental configurations and goals. Some of these included DigAs (a search for early supernova in galaxies with a remote controlled telescope in real time using an IBM 360-44 mainframe computer through a digital microwave link from the New Mexico Tech campus to the school's Langmuir Laboratory)(see the PBS NOVA episode "Death of a Star", 1987, ~ 8 minutes in), Paul Bunyan's Condom (aka PBC—a long plastic tube inflated by a B-26 bomber engine/propeller pumping charged smoke up into a thunder storm cloud), and SNORT (supernova observational radio telescope—a search for radio frequency chirps caused by the dispersive media between the receiver and the distant supernova).

From 1975 until his death, Colgate worked at the Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) and was a professor emeritus at New Mexico Tech. He continued his research into supernova and received the 2006 Los Alamos medal from LANL. Colgate had a specially-designed laboratory on the New Mexico Tech campus where he continued his research until mid-2013, when he ceased work due to failing health.

In 1984 Colgate co-founded the Santa Fe Institute.

Notes

Sources
 
 
 See chapter 6 in particular.

External links
2005 Video Interview with Stirling Auchincloss Colgate by Cynthia C. Kelly Voices of the Manhattan Project

1925 births
2013 deaths
Cornell University College of Engineering alumni
American nuclear physicists
University of California, Berkeley staff
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory staff
New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology
Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences
Los Alamos National Laboratory personnel
Sandia National Laboratories people
Santa Fe Institute people
S