[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Noemí Sanín

Marta Noemí del Espíritu Santo Sanín Posada (born 6 June 1949) is a Colombian-born politician and diplomat. She was the Conservative party candidate in the 2010 Colombian presidential election.

A lawyer from Pontifical Xavierian University and 2001 Fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, Harvard University, she has served as Ambassador of Colombia to the United Kingdom, Ambassador of Colombia to Spain, Ambassador of Colombia to Venezuela, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Colombia, and Minister of Communications of Colombia.

Before running in 2010 as a Conservative, Sanín ran as an independent candidate during the 1998 presidential election, and again during the 2002 presidential election, backed both times by the Yes Colombia movement.

Education
Sanín studied law at the Pontifical Xavierian University in Bogotá. She later studied post graduate studies in Commercial law and finance and worked for several entities in the financial sector in both state and private sectors.

In 1998 Sanín moved to the United States and established herself in Boston, where she attended Harvard University as a Weatherhead Center for International Affairs Fellow.

Political career
In 1976 Sanín was appointed as Vice President of Operations and Credit in the Corporación de Ahorro y Vivienda, (Colmena) (Savings and Housing Corporation) until 1979. She was later appointed President of this institution with only 30 years of age and became the first woman in Latin America to ever manage a financial corporation. Her most notable achievements as President of Colmena was to have financed a large portion of the low-income sector of Colombia and expanded the national network of branches from 36 to 63 until the end of her terms in 1983. She also promoted a savings culture among the corporations' clients.

Minister of Communications 1983
Sanín served as Minister of Communications between 1983 and 1986, appointed by President of Colombia, Belisario Betancur. Among her achievements as minister of Communications Sanín helped to develop Law 42 of 1985 which modernized Television in Colombia and legalized and organized the regional TV networks. She also helped in the approval and introductions of cable television. This law also modernized other telecommunication state owned companies such as Telecom, Caprecom and Audiovisuales.

Palace of Justice siege 
On November 6, 1985 an urban commando of the 19th of April Movement guerrilla group stormed the Palace of Justice building to demand a public prosecution of then president of Colombia, Belisario Betancur. The president ordered the military to retake the Palace of Justice building. Acting as minister of Communications Sanín decided not to allow the retake to be broadcast live on television or radio, instead it continued with the usual programming. 28 hours later the retake ended with 55 dead among these 11 judges of the Supreme Court of Colombia as well as 11 people disappeared. Due to this decision she has been accused by the Colombian Truth Commission of censoring information as a way to keep in the dark the excesses undertaken by the military, which have been well known for decades and are now legally surfacing.

Peace negotiator in Casa Verde 
President Betancur appointed Sanín as representative of the government in the first commission that visited Casa Verde, the then headquarters of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) guerrilla, to negotiate a peaceful solution to the Colombian armed conflict.

Ambassador of Colombia in Venezuela 1990
Sanín served as  Ambassador of Colombia to Venezuela between 1990 and 1991 appointed by then President of Colombia, César Gaviria. During her term as ambassador commerce exchange between Colombia and Venezuela increased from US$300 million to US$1350 million a year until the end of her job.

Minister of Foreign Affairs 1991
On 8 November 1991, President Gaviria reshuffled his cabinet and named Sanín Minister of Foreign Affairs, Latin America's first female Foreign Affairs Minister. During her term as minister she modernized the administrative structure of the ministry. She also won a seat for Colombia in the Security Council of the United Nations and the presidency of the country in the G-77. She also gained the presidency for the nation in the Non-Aligned Movement and signed the border dispute resolution Sanín-Robertson treaty which resolved borders with Jamaica. In addition she won the seat as Secretary General of Organization of American States for Colombia with the appointment of César Gaviria.