[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Royal Bahamas Defence Force

e" is Commodore Dr. Raymond King. Additional bases are located in Matthew Town, Inagua, Marsh Harbour, Abaco,  Freeport, Grand Bahama, and Gun Point, Ragged Island.

The RBDF uses the British Royal Navy style of rank insignia, and all ships' names carry the prefix HMBS (His Majesty’s Bahamian Ship).

Due to a lack of ships, most RBDF members do not spend time at sea, and are used for other military or non-military roles. The Defence Force is primarily an armed service, whose roles also encompass some aspects of a coast guard as well as a disaster relief agency. These roles require Defence Force personnel to assume the duties of:
Naval and infantry personnel,
Police Officers (Peace Officer),
Customs Officers,
Immigration Officers,
Fisheries Inspectors,
Emergency Rescue Personnel,
Search & Rescue,
Sentry,
Detention Centre security and
Maintenance of Navigational Aids.

The RBDF offers a high school course called the Royal Bahamas Defence Force Rangers.

Peacekeeping missions have been conducted with the participation of RBDF members in El Salvador and Haiti.

Ships

The main ships in the force are two Bahamas-class and four Legend-class offshore patrol vessels. The latter are the first part of the nine-vessel acquisition contract signed with the Damen Shipyards Group in April 2013.
Most of the missions consist of anti-poaching patrols, anti-drug patrols, immigration enforcement, search and rescue, or general National Defence missions.

Four of the new vessels will be Stan 4207 design, four of the new vessels will be Stan 3007 design, and the final vessel will be  landing craft style transport craft, Damen Stan Lander 5612.

Equipment

Air Wing
The Air Wing was formed on November 26, 1981, two years after the creation of the defence force. Initially three Aero Commanders were purchased from Bahamasair and operated, but these were sold off in 1990. In 1992, a Cessna 402 was added with a Cessna 421 soon after. By late 2005, the delivery of a Super king Air 350 took place. In May 2009, a Cessna 208 Turbine Caravan with floats and a Partenavia P.68 were delivered and significantly improved the RBDF's surveillance and transport capabilities.

In December 2019, Bahamas established the Bahamas Unmanned Aerial System program, which contracted Swift Engineering to provide 55 unmanned aerial vehicles.

Current inventory

References

External links

 Royal Bahamas Defence Force Official Website
 Sandy Bottom Project
 The Bahama Journal: Commodore Admits "Rotten Apples"
 The Bahama Journal: Defence Force Gets New Chief
 Bahamas Government Website: Royal Bahamas Defence Force
 The Bahama Journal: Bottom Line: Defense Force Re-Organization
 The Nassau Guardian: Commodore to retire
 The Nassau Guardian: Sunk HMBS Flamingo 24th anniversary observed today
 thebahamasweekly.com - Exclusive Behind the Scenes: Royal Bahamas Defence Force catches bad guy on “Ugly Betty” Season 4 , Bahamas Episode

 
Military of the Bahamas
Military units and formations established in 1980