[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Heshui Campaign

by going to Qingyang after leaving Red City. As a result, when the nationalist reinforcement finally begun their march toward Heshui, it was already late in the evening.  In order to save time, the nationalists took a route in a valley 15 km to the east of Qingyang without sending out scouts ahead.

Around the same time the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade left Qingyang to reinforce Heshui on May 29, 1947, the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column reached Cypress Plateau, the chokepoint of the traffic to Heshui.  The exhausted communists did not even bother to build any temporary fortifications.  Luo Shaowei (), the commander of the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column deployed the 3rd Battalion of the regiment to the south of the road, while the 2nd Battalion was deployed atop Northern Plateau (Bei Yuan, ) in the north, while the 1st Battalion acted as reserve.  With the exception of a single platoon on guard, the rest of the exhausted communists camped in the open and went to sleep.  At 5:00 AM on May 30, 1947, the nationalist reinforcement approached the communist camp, and made contact with the communist platoon on guard.  Once hearing the gunshots, the communists immediately jumped to their feet and 3rd Battalion of the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column was the first one to act.  Zhang Peiran (), and Qiu Deshan (), the commander and the political commissar of the 3rd Battalion of the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column immediately organized their troops and directed machine gun and mortar crew to fire at the nationalists.  Zhu Zhongxin (), the political commissar of the 2nd Battalion of the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column was just getting up to urinate when the battle broke out, and he immediately woke up his troops and with the help of Zhang Shunguo (), the battalion commander, led their battalion to reinforce their comrades.

The sudden contact with the enemy was equally unexpected by and surprising the nationalists when they were moving fast in the valley.  Ma Buluan (), the commander of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade immediately ordered his troops to take the high ground on both sides to avoid being pinned down by the enemy.  The advance guard of the nationalist reinforcement led by the company commander Ma Guochen () climbed to the top of Southern Plateau (Nan Yuan, ), while the rest of the nationalists climbed to the top of Northern Plateau.  At the dawn, the nationalist main force atop Northern Plateau had beaten back the attack by the 3rd Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column, and the nationalist advance guards atop Southern Plateau originally appeared to be also successful in beating back the attack of the Garrison Platoon of the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column.  However, the 2nd Battalion of the 1st Regiment of the Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column reached in time and helped their comrades to counterattack, surrounding the nationalist advance guards in three sides.  The nationalist main force atop Northern Plateau could not provide fire support to their comrades-in-arms because the two sides were engaged in close quarter combats, and Lieutenant Colonel Suo Shijun () lead a team of three dozen men charged the enemy, successfully disrupted the enemy's counterattack and thus allowed the besieged nationalist advance guards to escape.  However, by this time, one third of the 400+ strong nationalist advance guards had already been lost, and the company commander Ma Guochen who led the nationalist advance guards lost both his legs due to enemy fire.  The nationalists was forced to a temporary retreat and headed back to Qingyang.