[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 112]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

o him upon the subject. After speaking to him with great
good-nature, she asked him, whether it might not have been better to
have contributed something along with the rest, than to have offended
them by so free an exposition of his sentiments, even though he did not
approve of the scheme. "Indeed, madam," said Harry, "this is what I
would gladly have done, but it was totally out of my power." "How can
that be, Harry? did you not the other night win nearly thirty
shillings?" "That, madam, all belonged to you; and I have already
disposed of it in your name, in a manner that I hope you will not
disapprove." "How is that?" inquired the young lady with some surprise.
"Madam," said Harry, "there was a young woman who lived with my father
as a servant, and always behaved with the greatest honesty and
carefulness. This young woman had an aged father and mother, who for a
great while were able to maintain themselves by their labour; but at
last the poor old man became too weak to do a day's work, and his wife
was afflicted with a disease they call the palsy. Now, when this good
young woman saw that her parents were in such great distress, she left
her place and went to live with them, on purpose to take care of them;
and she works very hard, whenever she can get work, and fares very hard
in order to maintain her parents; and though we assist them all we can,
I know that sometimes they can hardly get food and clothes; therefore,
madam, as you were so kind to say I should dispose of this money for
you, I ran over this morning to these poor people, and gave them all the
money in your name, and I hope you will not be displeased at the use I
have put it to." "Indeed," answered the young lady, "I am much obliged
to you for the good opinion you have of me, and the application of it
does me a great deal of honour; I am only sorry you did not give it in
your own name." "That," replied Harry, "I had not any right to do; it
would have been attributing to myself what did not belong to me, and
equally inconsistent with truth and honesty."

In this manner did the time pass away at Mr Merton's; while Harry
received very little satisfaction from his visit, except in conversing
with Miss Simmons. The affability and good sense of this young lady had
entirely gained his confidence; while all the other young ladies were
continually intent upon displaying their talents and importance, she
alone was simple and unaffected. But what disgusted Harry more than ever
was, that his refined companions seemed to consider themselves, and a
few of their acquaintance, as the only beings of any consequence in the
world. The most trifling inconvenience, the being a little too hot, a
little too cold, the walking a few hundred yards, the waiting a few
minutes for their dinner, the having a trifling cold, or a little
headache, were misfortunes so feelingly lamented, that he would have
imagined they were the most tender of the human species, had he not
observed that they considered the sufferings of all below them with a
profound indifference. If the misfortunes of the poor were mentioned, he
heard of nothing but the insolence and ingratitude of that class of
people, which seemed to be a sufficient excuse for the want of common
humanity. "Surely," said Harry to himself, "there cannot be so much
difference between one human being and another; or if there is, I should
think that part of them the most valuable who cultivate the ground, and
provide necessaries for all the rest; not those who understand nothing
but dress, walking with their toes out, staring modest people out of
countenance, and jabbering a few words of a foreign language."

But now the attention of all the younger part of the company was fixed
upon making preparations for a ball, which Mrs Merton had determined to
give in honour of Master Tommy's return. The whole house was now full
of milliners, mantua-makers, and dancing-masters; and all the young
ladies were employed in giving directions about their clothes, or in
practising the steps of different dances. Harry now, for the first time,
began to comprehend the infinite importance of dress--even the elderly
ladies seemed to be as much interested about the affair as their
daughters; and, instead of the lessons of conduct and wisdom which he
expected to hear, nothing seemed to employ their attention a moment but
French trimmings, gauzes, and Italian flowers. Miss Simmons alone
appeared to consider the approaching solemnity with perfect
indifference. Harry had never heard a single word drop from her that
expressed either interest or impatience; but he had for some days
observed her employed in her room with more than common assiduity. At
length, on the very day that was destined for this important exhibition,
she came to him with a benevolent smile, and spoke to him thus: "I was
so much pleased with the account you gave me the other day of that poor
young woman's duty and