[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# All-Polish Youth

outh, and the League of Polish Families cut ties with the group. As it was later determined, during the private party Leokodia Wącek was not a member of the organisation and the main Polish television channel Telewizja Polska apologized to All-Polish Youth for accusing them of neo-nazi connotations.

All-Polish Youth have declared that it is only by making Poland a Catholic state that its future will be secured, and chairman Konrad Bonisławski has stated "We do not want to become like Holland with its free drugs and gay marriage. Since joining the European Union we have seen attempts to destroy our Catholic values."

All-Polish Youth have gained considerable press coverage due to their staunch opposition of abortion and, particularly, homosexuality (which their website condemns as "unnatural behaviour" and describes gay rights marches as "militant homosexualism"). This has led to (sometimes violent) clashes with pro-choice and gay rights demonstrators.

All-Polish Youth have been widely condemned as homophobic by various organisations including Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and even the United Nations (which, in their Universal Periodic Review, describes All-Polish Youth as an "extremist homophobic grouping"), as well as a multitude of gay rights organisations such as OutRage! and the Polish Campaign Against Homophobia. In 2004, 2005, and 2006, All-Polish Youth members and sympathizers violently attacked people who were taking part in pro-gay demonstrations, throwing eggs, bottles and rocks at them, and were reported to have shouted "Send the fags to the hospital", "Perverts, get out of Kraków", "Let's gas the fags" and "We'll do to you what Hitler did to the Jews".

From 2012 onwards, the organisation has been heavily involved in playing a major role as part of the National Movement party, a party which the organisation was one of the several co-founders.

In January 2019, the organisation's leader from 2015 to 2016, Adam Andruszkiewicz, was appointed as Poland's deputy minister for digital affairs.

Former member (joined 2000), Lubusz chapter leader (2003–2004) and chairman (2005 and 2006) Krzysztof Bosak became the Confederate Party candidate for the presidential election 2020 after winning the presidential primaries held at the party convention in Warsaw on January 18, 2020.

In August 2019, the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination called the Polish government to delegalize and criminalize All-Polish Youth (along with several others) for promoting and inciting racial discrimination.

Idea

The All-Polish Youth is a nationalist and Catholic organization. It states that it recognizes God as the highest of all universal principles and deems the Catholic Church as the nation's mentor and the only way of pursuing holiness. Members of the All-Polish Youth highlight the purported need to ensure due respect to the Church, as well as its position within the State. According to the organization's 1989 manifesto, they claim that the Catholic ethic should be irrevocable both in public and private spheres of life. The organization advocates for the development of the Catholic State of the Polish Nation which should "become a pillar of the Western culture based upon Christian principles". The All-Polish Youth considers the notion of a nation to be understood as "a community united by faith, history, culture, land, speech, and customs, to be the most prominent of the earthly values".

The All-Polish Youth perceives the state as a necessary form of social coexistence, which politically engages the nation's members, and argues that its improvement should be permanently cared for. According to the organization, family means "oneness of faith and blood and is supposed to be a keystone of tradition and mores". Members of the All-Polish Youth believe that family should be protected from what they describe as "moral threats", and that families shall should receive support in both (undefined) material and spiritual respect. They claim that culture should be “a spiritual right of the nation's life and a proof of spirit's superiority over materiality and that it shall be cared for and maintained as such".

The All-Polish Youth opposes “doctrines which preach arbitrariness,” such as liberalism, relativism and tolerance. The organization is characterized by hard Euroscepticism. Its members claim to stand for national solidarity and disapprove of class warfare. In terms of economy, it approves of common private ownership and denounces buyout of national wealth by foreign
capital.

Activity