[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Andrei Sakharov

tters cover the period from 1968 to 1991 (Brezhnev stagnation). The documents characterize not only Sakharov's activity, but that of other dissidents, as well as that of highest-position apparatchiks and the KGB. No Russian equivalent of the KGB archive is available.

Legacy and remembrance

Places 

 In Moscow, there is Academician Sakharov Avenue and Sakharov Center.
 During the 1980s, the block of 16th Street NW between L and M streets, in front of the Soviet embassy in Washington, D.C. (which later became the Russian ambassador's residence) was renamed "Andrei Sakharov Plaza" as a form of protest against his 1980 arrest and detention.
 In Yerevan, the capital of Armenia, Sakharov Square, located in the heart of the city, is named after him.
 The Sakharov Gardens (est. 1990) are located at the entrance to Jerusalem, Israel, off the Jerusalem–Tel Aviv Highway. There is also a street named after him in Haifa.
 In Nizhny Novgorod, there is a Sakharov Museum in the apartment on the first floor of the 12-storeyed house where the Sakharov family lived for seven years; in 2014 his monument was erected near the house.
 In Saint Petersburg, his monument stands in Sakharov Square, and there is a Sakharov Park.
 In 1979, an asteroid, 1979 Sakharov, was named after him.
 A public square in Vilnius in front of the Press House is named after Sakharov. The square was named on 16 March 1991, as the Press House was still occupied by the Soviet Army.
 Andreja Saharova iela in the district of Pļavnieki in Riga, Latvia, is named after Sakharov.
 Andreij-Sacharow-Platz in downtown Nuremberg is named in honour of Sakharov.
 In Belarus, International Sakharov Environmental University was named after him.
 Intersection of Ventura Blvd and Laurel Canyon Blvd in Studio City, Los Angeles, is named Andrei Sakharov Square.
 In Arnhem, the bridge over the Nederrijn is called the Andrej Sacharovbrug.
 The Andrej Sacharovweg is a street in Assen, Netherlands. There are also streets named in his honour in other places in the Netherlands such as Amsterdam, Amstelveen, The Hague, Hellevoetsluis, Leiden, Purmerend, Rotterdam, Utrecht 
 A street in Copenhagen, Denmark.
 Quai Andreï Sakharov in Tournai, Belgium, is named in honour of Sakharov.
 In Poland, streets named in his honour in Warsaw, Łódź and Kraków.
 Andreï Sakharov Boulevard in the district of Mladost in Sofia, Bulgaria, is named after him.
 In New York, a street sign at the southwest corner of Third Avenue and 67th Street reads Sakharov-Bonner Corner, in honor of Sakharov and his wife, Yelena Bonner. The corner is just down the block from the Soviet Mission to the United Nations (which later became the Russian mission) and was the scene of repeated anti-Soviet demonstrations.
 In Chisinau, the capital of Moldova, there is Academician Andrei Sakharov street.

Media 
 In the 1984 made-for-TV film Sakharov starring Jason Robards.
 In the television series Star Trek: The Next Generation, one of the Enterprise-D's Shuttlecraft is named after Sakharov, and is featured prominently in several episodes. This follows the Star Trek tradition of naming Shuttlecraft after prominent scientists, and particularly in The Next Generation, physicists.
 The fictitious interplanetary spacecraft Cosmonaut Alexei Leonov from the novel 2010: Odyssey Two by Arthur C. Clarke is powered by a "Sakharov drive". The novel was published in 1982, when Sakharov was in exile in Nizhny Novgorod, and was dedicated both to Sakharov and to Alexei Leonov.
 Russian singer Alexander Gradsky wrote and performed the song "Памяти А. Д. Сахарова" ("In memory of Andrei Sakharov"), which features on his Live In "Russia" 2 (Живем в "России" 2) CD.
 The faction leader of the Ecologists in the PC game S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl and its prequel is a scientist named Professor Sakharov.

Honours and awards 
 Hero of Socialist Labour (three times: 12 August 1953; 20 June 1956; 7 March 1962).
 Four Orders of Lenin.
 Lenin Prize (1956).
 Stalin Prize (1953).
 Elected member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1969)
 Elected member of the National Academy of Sciences (1973)

In 1980, Sakharov was stripped of all Soviet awards for "anti-Soviet activities". Later, during glasnost, he declined the return of his awards and, consequently, Mikhail Gorbachev did not sign the necessary decree.

 Prix mondial Cino Del Duca (1974).
 Nobel Peace Prize (1975).
 Elected member of the American Philosophical Society (1978)
 Laurea Honoris Causa of the Sapienza University of Rome (1980).
 Grand Cross of Order of the Cross of Vytis (posthumously on January 8, 2003).

Bibliography

Books

Articles and interviews

See also 

 Sakharov conditions
 Sakharov Prize
 List of peace activists
 Natan Sharansky
 Stanislaw Ulam
 Omid Kokabee
 Mordechai Vanunu

References

Further reading

External links