[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sanlaap

Sanlaap is an Indian feminist non-governmental organisation, established by Indrani Sinha in 1987 in Calcutta. Based in Calcutta, the group aims to protect the human rights of women and girls.  Sanlaap is a developmental organisation that works towards correction of social imbalances which present themselves as gender injustice and violence against women and children. The primary work is focused against trafficking of women and children for commercial sexual exploitation, sexual abuse and forced prostitution.  As part of its work, the group starts shops to train girls to make a living and foster their independence.

History

In 1987 a group of researchers and teachers decided to work for the rights of women and female children. In 1989–90, a study of sexually abused females in Calcutta and its
suburbs revealed that girls who were sexually abused when they came in search of work as domestic help and in other forms of employment, often ended up in red light areas. The
plight of girls who had been trafficked, tricked and forced into child prostitution became the focus of Sanlaap's work.

Interacting with women in prostitution (WIP) revealed the need of these women to find a safe place for their children while they were busy during evening hours. The idea of a Drop in Centre (DIC) came out as a need expressed by the women in prostitution. Today, Sanlaap runs 14 DICs (drop in centres) in 11 red light districts of Kolkata and its outskirts under its Education Programme (SOPAN).

Mothers in the red light areas of Kolkata voiced concerns that their girls in the age group 12–13 years drop out of schools and get married, and are eventually deserted by husband, often left with a child. They then join the women in prostitution for survival. The women living there also explained how they were trafficked by their husbands, families and friends using the false leads of marriage and employment. They wanted their female children to be safe and out of prostitution and the sex industry.

The idea of a shelter home evolved through this experience, and the first
shelter home was started in July 1993. There are three—SNEHA ("Affection")—Shelter Homes in Kolkata and the two districts which house more than 150 girls who are minors rescued from prostitution, children of women in prostitution and vulnerable girls rescued from sexual abuse. Mental Health Intervention Programme through Counselling (1995–96), Vocational
skills leading to production (SRIJONI) and economic empowerment, dance as therapy (SANVED), formal and non-formal education are some major interventions and projects of the organisation.

Networking is seen as an integral part of Sanlaap Activities; it is believed that Human Rights of individuals or groups cannot be achieved and trafficking cannot be stopped unless and until all groups network with each other and protest the violence of trafficking and forced prostitution, where major victims are under 18 years of age. Sanlaap also networks with the different Government structures and the Panchayats stop trafficking of children and women.

Sanlaap believes that trafficking and forced prostitution is organised crime and prostitution cannot become work in the South Asian Region. Women and children discriminated by the family and society are bought and sold as commodities in this region and although there are legal bans on traditional and religious prostitution, the implementation has been very weak and female children are forced into brothel prostitution. Natural calamities, political disturbances and civil wars force hundreds of women and girls to take to the streets and many are trafficked for prostitution and dangerous bonded labor practices in the South Asian Countries. Female children and women are often uneducated and unemployed, hence undergoing discrimination at all levels. As a consequence they have vulnerabilities which force them to migrate and many are trafficked during this time. Corruption is rampant at every level and if prostitution is accepted as work, the madam-pimp-brothel owner-trafficker nexus will be strengthened and more girls will find their way into forced prostitution. The demand age for prostitution is the age of sixteen.

The core of Sanlaap's campaign against trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation is to provide psychosocial rehabilitation of child victims of prostitution, whether they or their mothers are engaged in it. Interventions in Calcutta's red light areas are aimed at building access to communities where prostitutes live and providing services to such women and their children to ensure their access to education, health and protection from abuse and exploitation.