[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Chavagnes International College

of English and French Catholic scouting, following the teaching of Father Jacques Sevin SJ, the Father of European Catholic Scouting and friend of Lord Baden Powell. The College Troop takes the name 'Scouts de Chavagnes' and is affiliated to the World Federation of Independent Scouts.

House system

The college's pupils are divided into four houses. Each house is named after a general of the Vendéen uprising that took place in response to the French revolution: Suzannet, Charette, Rochejacquelein and Cathelineau. Boys sit at house tables for meals and also participate in various inter-house competitions. Each house has a captain and vice captain. The house captain of each house wears a black gown over his school uniform, similar in design to an undergraduate gown, but with ribbon facings on the streamers in the appropriate house colour. The house captain is also responsible for the conduct of his house.

Discipline and environment
The boys, aged 10 to 18, live in community with the teachers.  Access to TV and the Internet, CD players and iPods is limited. Mass is attended daily and prayers are said at different times throughout the day.

The College describes itself as a 'voluntary community' and its discipline system is based on the presumption that boys fundamentally want to be there.

Media coverage

The school was the subject of several documentary programmes in the UK and France. It became quite famous in France in 2004 when its buildings were used in the summer holidays for the filming of a reality show called Le Pensionnat de Chavagnes in which children recreated a school from the 1950s for a month. The four-part series, based on the UK broadcast That'll Teach 'Em, attracted up to eight million viewers across France.

Various articles have appeared in The Daily Telegraph, Sunday Times and other UK and French newspapers over the years. In June 2008 a Reuters article on the college was syndicated worldwide and attracted a great deal of attention. This was followed up by a special feature on Vatican Radio in July 2008. This focussed on the college as a 'Community of faith.'

Gallery

See also 

 Education in France
 Catholic Church in France
 List of schools in France

References

External links
 School web site
 Chavagnes Scouts
 A film about Chavagnes made by a parent
  - BBC Kent feature on Chavagnes
  - Vatican Radio feature on Chavagnes
  - Reuters article on Chavagnes
 French alumni site from the old days of the 'seminary'
 Press article about the hidden Jewish children of Chavagnes

Catholic boarding schools
International schools in France
Catholic secondary schools in France
Educational institutions established in 1802
Educational institutions established in 2002
Cambridge schools in France
Boarding schools in France
Private schools in France
British international schools in France
1802 establishments in France
2002 establishments in France
Education in Pays de la Loire
Boys' schools in France