[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# MEN1

detected in approximately 5% of sporadic pituitary adenomas. Consequently, alterations of the gene represent a candidate pathogenetic mechanism of pituitary tumorigenesis especially when considered in terms of interactions with other proteins, growth factors, oncogenes play a rule in tumorigenesis.

Although the exact function of MEN1 is not known, the Knudson "two-hit" hypothesis provides strong evidence that it is a tumor suppressor gene. Familial loss of one copy of MEN1 is seen in association with MEN-1 syndrome. Tumor suppressor carcinogenesis follows Knudson's "two-hit" model. The first hit is a heterozygous MEN1 germline mutation either developed in an early embryonic stage and consequently present in all cells at birth for the sporadic cases, or inherited from one parent in a familial case.  The second hit is a MEN1 somatic mutation, oftentimes a large deletion occurring in the predisposed endocrine cell and providing cells with the survival advantaged needed for tumor development. The MEN-1 syndrome often exhibits tumors of parathyroid glands, anterior pituitary, endocrine pancreas, and endocrine duodenum.  Less frequently, neuroendocrine tumors of lung, thymus, and stomach or non-endocrine tumors such as lipomas, angiofibromas, and ependymomas are observed neoplasms.

In a study of 12 sporadic carcinoid tumors of the lung, five cases involved inactivation of both copies of the MEN1 gene.  Of the five carcinoids, three were atypical and two were typical.  The two typical carcinoids were characterized by a rapid proliferative rate with a higher mitotic index and stronger Ki67 positivity than the other typical carcinoids in the study. Consequently, the carcinoid tumors with MEN1 gene inactivation in the study were considered to be characterized by more aggressive molecular and histopathological features than those without MEN1 gene alterations.

Interactions 

MEN1 has been shown to interact with:
 FANCD2,
 GFAP,
 JunD,
 NFKB1, 
 MLL,
 RPA2, and
 VIM.

References

Further reading

External links 
  GeneReviews/NIH/NCBI/UW entry on Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1
 MEN1 gene variant database