[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Amateur radio repeater

own as a simplex repeater uses a single transceiver and a short-duration voice recorder, which records whatever the receiver picks up for a set length of time (usually 30 seconds or less), then plays back the recording over the transmitter on the same frequency. A common name is a "parrot" repeater.

Digipeater 
Another form of repeater used in amateur packet radio, a form of digital computer-to-computer communications, is dubbed "digipeater" (for DIGItal rePEATER).  Digipeaters are often used for activities and modes such as packet radio, Automatic Packet Reporting System, and D-STAR's digital data mode. Also commercial digital modes such as DMR, P25 and NXDN. Some modes are full duplex and internet linked.

SSTV repeater 
An SSTV repeater is an amateur radio repeater station that relays slow-scan television signals. A typical SSTV repeater is equipped with a HF or VHF transceiver and a computer with a sound card, which serves as a demodulator/modulator of SSTV signals.

SSTV repeaters are used by amateur radio operators for exchanging pictures. If two stations cannot copy each other, they can still communicate through a repeater.

One type of SSTV repeater is activated by a station sending it a 1,750 Hz tone. The repeater sends K in morse code to confirm its activation, after which the station must start sending a picture within about 10 seconds. After reception, the received image is transmitted on the repeater's operation frequency. Another type is activated by the SSTV vertical synchronization signal (VIS code).

Depending on the software it uses (MMSSTV, JVComm32, MSCAN, for example), an SSTV repeater typically operates in common SSTV modes.

Repeater networks 
Repeaters may be linked together in order to form what is known as a linked repeater system or linked repeater network.  In such a system, when one repeater is keyed-up by receiving a signal, all the other repeaters in the network are also activated and will transmit the same signal.  The connections between the repeaters are made via radio (usually on a different frequency from the published transmitting frequency) for maximum reliability.  Some networks have a feature to allow the user being able to turn additional repeaters and links on or off on the network. This feature is typically done with DTMF tones to control the network infrastructure.  Such a system allows coverage over a wide area, enabling communication between amateurs often hundreds of miles (several hundred km) apart.  These systems are used for area or regional communications, for example in Skywarn nets, where storm spotters relay severe weather reports.  All the user has to know is which channel to use in which area.

Voting systems 
In order to get better receive coverage over a wide area, a similar linked setup can also be done with what is known as a voted receiver system.  In a voted receiver, there are several satellite receivers set up to receive on the same frequency (the one that the users transmit on).  All of the satellite receivers are linked to a voting selector panel that switches from receiver to receiver based on the best quieting (strongest) signal, and the output of the selector will actually trigger the central repeater transmitter.  A properly adjusted voting system can switch many times a second and can actually "assemble" a multi-syllable word using a different satellite receiver for each syllable. Such a system can be used to widen coverage to low power mobile radios or handheld radios that otherwise would not be able to key up the central location, but can receive the signal from the central location without an issue.  Voting systems require no knowledge or effort on the part of the user – the system just seems to have better-than-average handheld coverage.

Internet linking 
Repeaters may also be connected over the Internet using voice over IP (VoIP) techniques.  VoIP links are a convenient way to connecting distant repeaters that would otherwise be unreachable by VHF/UHF radio propagation.  Popular VoIP amateur radio network protocols include D-STAR, Echolink, IRLP, WIRES and eQSO. Digital Mobile Radio (DMR), D-STAR, Fusion, P25 and NXDN all have a codec in the user radio and along with the encoded audio, also send and receive user number and destination information so one can talk to another specific user or a Talk Group. Two such worldwide networks are DMR-MARC and Brandmeister.

For example, a simplex gateway may be used to link a simplex repeater into a repeater network via the Internet.