[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Gibbs Dibrell

25th marched as part of a larger force under Brigadier General Zollicoffer to Camp Beech Grove, just across the Cumberland River from Mill Springs, Kentucky, in advance of a threatened Federal invasion from nearby Somerset or Colombia to the west, and to break up Kentuckian Federal home guard units.

This immediately preceded the Battle of Fishings Creek (more generally known as the Battle of Mill Springs or Logan's Crossroads) on 19 January 1862, one of the first significant Union victories of the Civil War, which helped break the Confederate defensive line. Zollicoffer fell during the battle, at which point the Confederate forces were outflanked and retreated in disorder. Dibrell and the 25th Tennessee formed the Confederate left flank which was turned by the Union commander. The Confederates fell back that night across the Cumberland River, leaving behind their artillery, wagons, horses, and all of their supplies and ammunition.  Confederate loss totaled about 400 killed, wounded, and captured.

In May 1862, the 25th Tennessee was reorganized at Corinth, and Dibrell was defeated in his bid for the Lieutenant Colonelcy. Dibrell was discharged from the regiment on 10 May 1862, with three months remaining on his period of enlistment. He then travelled to Richmond where he obtained permission to raise a regiment for Confederate service, after which he returned home to Sparta.  There he organized an independent force of cavalry as partisan rangers. This regiment, which entered service as the 8th Tennessee Cavalry (sometimes called the 13th), was organized at Yankeetown, a short distance from downtown Sparta, on 4 September 1862, and totaled 920 men in twelve companies.  George Dibrell was elected Colonel.  His eldest son Wayman Leftwich Dibrell joined the regiment (before its official organization) as a 2nd Lieutenant on 2 August 1862, at the age of 19 years, 8 months.

Politics 
Dibrell was a delegate to the Tennessee state constitutional convention in 1870. Elected as a Democrat to the Forty-fourth and the four succeeding Congresses, Dibrell served from March 4, 1875, to March 3, 1885.  He was not a candidate for renomination in 1884 and resumed agriculture and business pursuits, including the development of several coal mines.

Post-war Pursuits

Overview 
Owner of over fifteen thousand acres in White County, Dibrell established the Bon Air Coal & Coke Company, which became one of the county's leading industries and largest employers. Also a key figure in the development of the Southwestern Railroad, which connected Sparta with the Nashville and Chattanooga line, he was President of that railroad in 1869. Dibrell also served as a delegate to the Methodist conference at Memphis in 1870, and at Nashville in 1882.

Railroads 
Shortly after returning to his home and family in mid-1865, Dibrell commenced the process of renewing the vitality of his hometown.  This began by bringing in branches of the McMinnville and Manchester Railroad, Nashville and Chattanooga Company (N. C. & St. L.), and the Southwestern Railroad Company, with the object of opening up the somewhat geographically- and thus commercially isolated county.  The former two of these companies completed the first rail lines in the state before the war, connecting Nashville, McMinnville, and Tullahoma.  Hitherto, livestock and other marketable goods had to be driven or carried over land, much as Dibrell did in his youth.  Plans existed to extend a branch from McMinnville to Sparta as early as 1858, but these were cancelled by the impending conflict.  Dibrell became a director of the Southwestern Railroad Company three years before he was elected as its president in 1869.  He remained in this position for 15 years until the company was acquired by the Nashville and Chattanooga Company and the railroad came to Sparta in 1884.  The advent of the railroad in White County fulfilled "a great need for a speedier method of moving the products of an expanding and developing land."