[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Ukraine–European Union relations

Eastern Partnership, Poland and Ukraine have reached a new agreement replacing visas with simplified permits for Ukrainians residing within 30 km of the border. Up to 1.5 million people may benefit from this agreement which took effect on 1 July 2009.

Negotiations of an Association Agreement (AA) 

An Association agreement (AA) between Ukraine and the EU was negotiated from 2009 to 2011, and should replace the existing PCA. The AA aims for political association and economic integration, includes a "deep and comprehensive free trade area", and runs parallel to the negotiations for a visa-free regime. It does not contain a membership perspective for Ukraine, though it recalls it as "a European country with European identity" and says that "the EU acknowledged the European aspirations of Ukraine".

On 16 June 2009, a new practical instrument was adopted – the EU-Ukraine Association Agenda. 19 December 2011 EU-Ukraine summit, which was intended to lead to the signature of the Agreement, fell short due to the EU's concerns over the jailing of former premier Yulia Tymoshenko. The end of negotiations were announced, but the text of the agreement was not signed with EU leaders deciding to wait until the October 2012 Parliamentary elections as a test of the vitality of democracy and rule of law in Ukraine. The AA was initialed shortly thereafter, on 30 March 2012. Before it enters into force it must be ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament, the European Parliament, and each EU member state. However, EU leaders have suggested that the agreement will not be ratified unless Ukraine addresses concerns over a "stark deterioration of democracy and the rule of law", including the imprisonment of Yulia Tymoshenko and Yurii Lutsenko in 2011 and 2012. In November 2012, EU Commissioner for Enlargement and European Neighbourhood Policy Stefan Fule stated that the AA, and DCFTA, could be signed in November 2013 if the EU's concerns were addressed.

However, in February 2013 Fule warned Ukraine that the agreements could be abandoned if the required reforms are not made quickly.  He also stated that Ukrainian membership in the Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia would be incompatible with the agreements with the EU.

Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement (DCFTA) 

While work on signing a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement between Ukraine and the EU first began in 1999, formal negotiations between the Ukrainian government and the EU Trade Commissioner were not launched until 18 February 2008 . As of May 2011 there remained three outstanding issues to be resolved in the free trade deal: quotas on Ukrainian grain exports, access to the EU's services market and geographical names of Ukrainian commodities. Aside from these issues, the deal was ready. Despite those outstanding issues, Ukraine was ready to sign the agreement as it stood. Although it wanted stronger wording on enlargement prospects and access to the EU market for its truckers, Ukraine had more than many other candidates at the equivalent stage of the process. The finalised agreement was initialed on 19 July 2012. Ratification of the DCFTA, like the AA, has been stalled by the EU concerns over the rule of law in Ukraine. This includes the application of selective justice, as well as amending electoral laws. As a result, the role of Ukrainian oligarchs in sanctioning the agreement was also questioned.

If Ukraine would choose the agreement, the Eurasian Economic Commission's Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia would withdraw from free trade agreements with the country, according to Russian presidential advisor Sergei Glazyev. However, on 21 November 2013 a Ukrainian government decree suspended preparations for signing the agreement that was scheduled to be signed during a 28–29 November 2013 EU summit in Vilnius, and it was not signed. The decision to put off signing the association agreement led to 2013–2014 Ukrainian revolution.

EU sanctions against Russia related to its military intervention in eastern Ukraine have been extended until July, 2016. On 1 January 2016, the DCFTA entered into force.

Visa liberalisation dialogue and visa-free regime 

 2006 Readmission Agreement
 2007 Visa Facilitation Agreement
 2010 Visa Liberalisation Action Plan