[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sahara pump theory

e Zone (ITCZ) brings rain to the tropics, while dry descending air, at about 20 degrees north, flows back to the equator and brings desert conditions to this region. This phase is associated with high rates of wind-blown mineral dust, found in marine cores that come from the north tropical Atlantic.

Around 12,500 BC, the amount of dust in the cores in the Bølling/Allerød phase suddenly plummets and shows a period of much wetter conditions in the Sahara, indicating a Dansgaard-Oeschger (DO) event (a sudden warming followed by a slower cooling of the climate). The moister Saharan conditions had begun about 12,500 BC, with the extension of the ITCZ northward in the northern hemisphere summer, bringing moist wet conditions and a savanna climate to the Sahara, which (apart from a short dry spell associated with the Younger Dryas) peaked during the Holocene thermal maximum climatic phase at 4000 BC when mid-latitude temperatures seem to have been between 2 and 3 degrees warmer than in the recent past.  Analysis of Nile River deposited sediments in the delta also shows this period had a higher proportion of sediments coming from the Blue Nile, suggesting higher rainfall also in the Ethiopian Highlands. This was caused principally by a stronger monsoonal circulation throughout the sub-tropical regions, affecting India, Arabia and the Sahara. Lake Victoria only recently became the source of the White Nile and dried out almost completely around 15 kya.

The sudden subsequent movement of the ITCZ southwards with a Heinrich event (a sudden cooling followed by a slower warming), linked to changes with the El Niño-Southern Oscillation cycle, led to a rapid drying out of the Saharan and Arabian regions, which quickly became desert. This is linked to a marked decline in the scale of the Nile floods between 2700 and 2100 BC. One theory proposed that humans accelerated the drying out period from 6,000–2,500 BC by pastoralists overgrazing available grassland.

Human migration

The Saharan pump has been used to date a number of waves of human migration from Africa, namely:

 Lower Paleolithic: Homo erectus (ssp. ergaster) into Southeast and East Asia, possibly twice, once with an Oldowan technology, which travelled as far as China and India to create the Chopper tradition, the second with Acheulian hand axes, only as far as the Indian Subcontinent.
Middle Paleolithic: Homo heidelbergensis into the Middle East and Western Europe.
Upper Paleolithic: Homo sapiens (possible early "Out of Africa" wave, receded before 80,000 years ago and eventually replaced by the "coastal migration" wave after 70,000 years ago) 
Epipaleolithic: Possible Afroasiatic migration into the Levant associated with the aridity of the 8.2 kiloyear event
Neolithic: 5.9 kiloyear event: sometimes associated with certain population movements of the Neolithic period
 Libu and Meshwesh migrations attacking Egypt at the end of the New Kingdom that ushered in the Bronze Age Collapse and saw chariots appear in the Sahara.

See also
 Abbassia Pluvial
 Mousterian Pluvial
 African humid period
 North African climate cycles

References

Animal migration
Historical geology
History of the Sahara
Paleoclimatology
Peopling of the world
Physical geography
Prehistoric Africa
Prehistoric migrations