[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Militia (United States)

e not on active duty.
Customhouse clerks.
Persons employed by the United States in the transmission of mail.
Workmen employed in armories, arsenals, and naval shipyards of the United States.
Pilots on navigable waters.
Mariners in the sea service of a citizen of, or a merchant in, the United States.

Many individual states have additional statutes describing their residents as part of the state militia; for example Washington law specifies all able-bodied citizens or intended citizens over the age of eighteen as members of the state militia, as explicitly distinct from the National Guard and Washington State Guard. In states such as Texas, the state constitution classifies male citizens between the ages of 17 and 45 to belong to the "Unorganized Reserve Militia". The Texas constitution also grants county sheriffs and the state governor the authority to call upon the unorganized reserve militia to uphold the peace, repel invasion, and suppress rebellion, similar to the early "Texas Rangers".

Private militias and the modern citizen-militia movement

Laws authorizing the state governments to officially make privately organized militias part of the state's official military force vary; Nevada, for example, allows the governor to "issue licenses to bodies of persons to organize, drill and bear arms as volunteer military companies or volunteer military organizations," whereas South Carolina prohibits any group from being enlisted into its state guard. States with military histories that date back to the American revolution may officially recognize militias from that era that continue to exist and operate independently; Massachusetts law explicitly makes the National Lancers part of its organized militia and protects the right of the Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company of Massachusetts to exist and operate as a private organization, while Rhode Island recognizes a number of independent chartered militias as a separate part of its overall military force. During World War II, Hawaii authorized several private paramilitary militias to operate, including the Businessmen's Military Training Corps and the Hawaii Air Depot Volunteer Corps.

Since approximately 1992, there have been a number of state- and regional-level private organizations in the United States that call themselves militia or unorganized militia, some of which have been tied to domestic terrorism and extremist views, which operate without any official sanctioning or licensing by their state governments. The 2000s and 2010s also saw the formation of several national-level private militia organizations, the largest of which were the Oath Keepers and Three Percenters.

List of legislated militia in the United States

U.S. federal militia forces
 United States National Guard

U.S. states' militia forces
 State defense forces
 Naval militia

See also
Colonial American military history
Irregular military
List of United States militia units in the American Revolutionary War
Nauvoo Legion

References

Historic documents
Anti-Federalist Papers
Federalist Papers
Militia Act of 1792
Militia Act of 1903
National Defense Act of 1916
National Guard Mobilization Act of 1933
Total Force Policy of 1973
United States Constitution

Further reading
 
 
 
 
 

 Singletary, Otis. Negro militia and Reconstruction, Austin: University of Texas Press. (1957) 
 Smith, Joshua M. "The Yankee Soldier's Might: The District of Maine and the Reputation of the Massachusetts Militia, 1800–1812," New England Quarterly LXXXIV no. 2 (June 2011), 234–264.
 Stentiford, Barry M. "The Meaning of a Name: The Rise of the National Guard and the End of a Town Militia," Journal of Military History, July 2008, Vol. 72 Issue 3, pp 727–754
 Stentiford, Barry M. The American Home Guard: The State Militia in the Twentieth Century (Williams-Ford Texas A&M University Military History Series)"

External links

SGAUS – State Guard Association of the United States
David C. Munn's scholarly work: Battles and skirmishes of the American Revolution in New Jersey

Military history of the United States
 

Gun politics in the United States