[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stakeholder analysis

critical sub-set of the total community - the key stakeholders.

 Develop a categorised list of the members of the stakeholder community. 
 Stakeholders can be prioritized in some order. 
 The highest priority stakeholders are then translated into a visual representation (often a table or a graph).

The power-interest matrix 
The most common presentation style uses a two-dimensional matrix. Power and influence are commonly seen with a third dimension shown by the colour or size of the symbol representing the individual stakeholders, often the attitude. 

Some of the commonly used dimensions include:

 Power (high, medium, low)
 Influence (high or low)
 Interest/Need (high, medium, low)
 Support/Attitude (positive, neutral, negative)

The salience model 
The salience model uses three dimensions: legitimacy (A), power (B), and urgency (C). It is represented in a Venn diagram, that has 8 regions each associated to a specific stakeholder type.

Stakeholder types as described by the salience model:

 Discretionary stakeholders: These stakeholders have little urgency or power and are unlikely to exert much pressure. They have legitimate claims. (yellow region)
 Dormant stakeholders: These stakeholders have much power but no legitimacy or urgency and therefore are not likely to become heavily involved. (blue region)
 Demanding stakeholders: These stakeholders have little power or legitimacy but can make much "noise" because they want things to be addressed immediately. (red region)
 Dominant stakeholders: These stakeholders have both formal power and legitimacy, but little urgency. They tend to have certain expectations that must be met. (green region)
 Dangerous stakeholders: These stakeholders have power and urgency but are not really pertinent to the project. (purple region)
 Dependent stakeholders: These stakeholders have urgent and legitimate stakes in the project but little power. These stakeholders may lean on another stakeholder group to have their voices heard. (orange region)
 Definitive stakeholders: These stakeholders have power, legitimacy and urgency and therefore have the highest salience. (white region at the intersection of all other regions)
 Non-stakeholders: These stakeholders have no power, legitimacy or urgency. (outside the regions defined by the circles A, B, and C)

Benefits 
Stakeholder analysis helps with the identification of:

 Stakeholders' interests
 Potential risks and misunderstandings
 Mechanisms to positively influence other stakeholders
 Key people to be informed about the project during the execution phase
 Negative stakeholders as well as their adverse effects on the project

See also
 Actor analysis
 Crowdsourcing
 Department of Defense Architecture Framework
 Participation (decision making)
 Public consultation
 Responsibility assignment matrix
Stakeholder engagement software
 Stakeholder theory
 Stakeholder management

References 

Systems analysis
Project management techniques