[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Waverly School

ool is to prepare students for the academic challenges of high school. The program emphasizes the development of strong and consistent work habits and solid skills in writing, mathematics, and analytical and critical thinking.

The middle school is located at 120 Waverly Drive, Pasadena, California.

High school
Waverly's high school offers college preparatory program. Students thrive in an environment that values inquiry, debate, and critical thinking, and teachers work closely with students to help them develop these skills in all subject areas. When choosing novels, designing projects, and creating lessons, teachers ensure that students learn from a wide range of backgrounds, voices, and perspectives. Writing assignments call on students to reflect, analyze, make ethical choices, understand others' perspectives, and address personal goals and choices. Teachers often refer to current events so students will make connections between what they are studying and what is happening in the world around them. A low student-teacher ratio and an accessible faculty facilitate supportive relationships, essential for academic success during adolescence.

Waverly's minimum graduation requirements exceed the entrance requirements for the University of California. The school offers a wide range of courses, all approved by the University of California, including Advanced Placement and Honors courses. Waverly emphasizes essential academic and social-emotional skills that produce students well prepared for the academic demands of college and beyond.

The high school is located on the Dean A. and Janice E. Scarborough Campus (108 Waverly Drive, Pasadena, California), a facility consisting of refurbished houses built before 1940. The Pasadena Historical Society helped to fund the moving of three buildings from their original site so that the buildings could be preserved and put to use.

Waverly is registered with the California Interscholastic Federation.

Organic farm
Located at 665 South Pasadena Avenue, Pasadena, California (in walking distance from the school), the school's one-acre organic farm is an outdoor classroom, not necessarily related to farming. Teachers take their classes to the farm to write, observe wildlife, and conduct science experiments. A plot for each classroom is available if desired by the teacher.

The organic farm exists to allow students, their families, their teachers, and the broader community to engage nature on multiple levels. The scope of participation in the life of the farm ranges from active cultivation and organic production to inventive play, hands-on learning, and appreciation of nature. The farm also creates opportunities for elementary, middle, and high school students to interact in ways that nurture cross-generational mentoring, leadership skills, and social harmony. The intent is that the farm be inspirational, experimental, educational, and sustainable.

References

External links

California Association of Independent Schools
California Interscholastic Federation
The Alliance
POCIS

Private elementary schools in California
Private middle schools in California
High schools in Los Angeles County, California
Private high schools in California
Private preparatory schools in California
1993 establishments in California