[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

ce, Pensions are not being distributed.
Free State general John T. Prout arrives in Waterford with 700 troops, one artillery piece and four armoured cars to take the city. His second in command is deposed East Waterford Brigade Commandant Paddy Paul. The Anti-Treaty IRA garrison consists of 200–300 men under George Lennon, Flying Column Leader. The combined Waterford Brigade is under the overall command of Pax Whelan. Prout sets up his gun on Mount Misery (Mercy) and bombards Republican held positions along the River Suir in the city, forcing them to eventually evacuate the military barracks and the post office. The barracks are burnt down by Irregulars before they abandoned the city. Four deaths occurred during the fighting, one of which was a girl of ten, who was shot in the stomach.
19 July – An eight-man Free State foot patrol is ambushed at Ballinasloe, County Galway; one soldier is killed.
20 July – 
Fall of Limerick. Free State forces capture the Ordnance Barracks and Castle Barracks in Limerick. The Republicans burn the remaining two barracks they are holding and retreat southwards. Fighting in Limerick has cost the lives of six Free State soldiers and 12 civilians, with a further 87 wounded. The press reports about thirty Anti-Treaty IRA men killed but a recent study puts their fatalities at just five.
Fall of Waterford. Captain Ned O'Brien leads 100 National Army troops in boats in an attack on the quays in Waterford, taking 12 prisoners. Free State troops then cross the river Suir into the city. General Prout brings their field gun down to the Suir Ferry bank to fire at close range into the Anti-Treaty-held Post Office, which then surrenders. The Republicans abandon Ballybricken Prison on Friday afternoon, 21 July escaping to Mt. Congreve in Kilmeadan, the Comeraghs and eventually, Dungarvan where many men of the Flying Column give up the struggle. Lennon resigns 1 August in a letter to First Division O/C Liam Deasy, citing disagreements over "tactics employed by our side". Two Free State soldiers have been killed in the fighting in Waterford and 19 wounded. At least one Anti-Treaty fighter is fatally wounded. Five civilians are also killed.
Sir James Craig, prime minister of Northern Ireland, issues a statement endorsing Michael Collins' efforts to bring "peace and order to the South and West".
Castlebar District Council issues a resolution condemning the Free State Provisional government for inaugurating the war in Ireland.
23 July – Free State troops under General W.R.E. Murphy take Bruff and Kilmallock in County Limerick. See Battle of Kilmallock.
In County Mayo, IRA Irregulars abandon the former Black and Tans Barracks in Ballina. As they leave, they set fire to the building. The Irregulars also destroy all the telegraph equipment in the Post office and the telephone equipment in the railway station. After they leave Ballina, the Irregulars destroy the bridges at Pootoon and Shanaghy. They also dug trenches into the roads surrounding Ballina in order to prevent vehicle traffic entering the town.
24 July – Republican fighters under Liam Deasy re-take Bruff and take 76 Free State prisoners.
Naval landing of 400 Free State troops in Westport. As the troops arrive on the quay, Irregulars abandon the R.I.C. barracks in the town.
24 July – 
The police barracks in Newport are burned by Irregulars, who had held the building since the beginning of the Truce.
In Charlestown, County Mayo, Irregulars execute one of their own men for disobeying an order to destroy local property. As a result of the execution, some Irregulars from Charlestown and Swinford mutiny and return home.
Anti-Treaty IRA fighters ambush a prison train Killurin, County Wexford, freeing its prisoners; two Free State soldiers are killed and 7 wounded.
Two civilians are shot dead in Dublin when Irregulars rob a public house.
Two girl civilians are shot dead another man critically wounded by Northern Ireland forces along the border with the Free State, near Newry. They had failed to stop when challenged.
Two Free State soldiers are killed in Galway, when the car they were driving crashes into a tree laid across the road.
25 July – 
Republican fighters attack a lorry full of Free State troops at York Street, central Dublin with small arms and grenades. Six civilians are wounded and two men are arrested. In a separate incident,a Free State soldier is killed in an accidental shooting at Beggar's Bush barracks.
In County Mayo, National Army Troops advance from Claremorris to Castlebar. By the evening, 150 troops occupy the town, equipped with armoured cars and artillery. The town is captured without a fight. However, the Courthouse, Barracks and Jail are all burned by Irregulars prior to the arrival of Free State Forces. The National Army followed up with raids on the houses of known Irregulars living in Castlebar. Five Irregulars were arrested. A contingent of Irregulars retreat to Ballinrobe.
The County Mayo towns of Ballyhaunis and Balla