[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dlawer Ala'Aldeen

rch
Ala'Aldeen has long been involved in capacity building for Iraqi and Kurdistan Universities and establishing academic links with British universities. On 28 October 2009, he joined Dr Barham Salih's Cabinet of Kurdistan Regional Government as Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research.

He initiated a major reform process in the system of Higher Education, with the aim to raise standards and help Universities gain total independence.  He led a major and highly transparent scholarship program for sending thousands of students abroad for Masters and PhD studies.  His first-year report (A roadmap to quality) in 2010  and a second year report (On route to quality) in 2011 outline the process of reform, including the first introduction of teaching quality assurance in Universities, continuous academic development for teachers, split-site PhD programs, restructuring university management in preparation for independence, introducing electronic system for student applications, converting technical institutes to Polytechnic Universities and modernising postgraduate (specialised) clinical training.  He introduced the process of appointing staff on merit via open competition, and took measures to ensure equal opportunity and gender equality in the system of higher education.  He submitted two legislative drafts for reforms in higher education and postgraduate clinical training.  Ala'Aldeen faced fierce resistance from anti-reformists and interest groups, particularly when he closed down five private dental and pharmacy Colleges in 2010 and four previously licensed private Universities in 2011.

Middle East Research Institute
Ala'Aldeen is the Founding President of the Middle East Research Institute (MERI), an independent, grant-funded and non-profit think tank which is focused on policy-issues and governance reform in Iraq and Kurdistan Region. MERI became operational on 18 May 2014 and has been ranked the first in Iraq and 35th in the Middle East and North Africa (among 507 institutions, top 7%) according to the Global Go To Think Tank Index report  issued by the Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program at the University of Pennsylvania’s Lauder Institute.

Ala'Aldeen and colleagues have published numerous policy papers and reports on refugees, Internally Displace persons (IDPs), security dynamics in the Middle East, EU policies in the Region, post-ISIS Iraq, conflict resolution (e.g. the future of Kirkuk), prevention of violent extremism, promoting human rights (protecting minority's rights, prevention of violence against women prevention of violence against women) and state-building and institutional reform (Judiciary system, public prosecution, interior ministry and Ministry of Peshmarga).

Scientific work
From 1988 to 2014, Ala'Aldeen has worked on pathogenesis, molecular epidemiology and vaccine development of various bacterial pathogens, particularly Neisseria meningitidis (causes meningitis and sepsis) and Campylobacter jejuni (most common cause of food poisoning).  He and his research group discovered a number of bacterial virulence factors and identified their human target receptors. These virulence factors have been investigated for their vaccine potential. They have also studied the human genetic response to bacteria as well as the population genetics and genome evolution of N. meningitidis, Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

Ala'Aldeen has published extensively in international scientific journals and co-authored three books in microbiology, Staphylococcus Aureus: molecular and clinical aspects; Molecular and Clinical Aspects of Bacterial Vaccine Development; and Medical Microbiology. He also holds numerous patents for anti-Campylobacter agents  and meningococcal vaccine candidates.

He was chairman or member of a number of National learned societies and committees, which included:
 Editorial board of three international microbiology/infection journals: Journal of Medical Microbiology, Journal of Infection, BMC Microbiology.
 Director of Research, Royal College of Pathologists (2009–10)
 Chairman, RCP/RCPath Infection Research Subcommittee (2007-9).
 Chairman, Clinical Microbiology Group of the Society for General Microbiology (2005–2009)
 Chairman, Federation of Infection Societies Scientific Committee (2007)
 Examination Board of the Royal College of Pathologists (2005–10)
 Medical Research Council's Infection and Immunity Board (2007–2010)
 Specialty Advisory Committee of the Royal College of Pathologists (RCPath) (2006–10)
 Health Protection Agency's Meningococcus Forum (1998-2010)