[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Onagawa Nuclear Power Plant

l safety systems functioned as designed, the reactors automatically shut down without damage, and no reactor damage occurred. 
A fire broke out in the turbine hall, which is sited separately from the plant's reactor in a building housing the electricity-generating turbine, but was soon extinguished.

Following the tsunami, two to three hundred residents of the town who lost their homes to the tsunami took refuge in the Onagawa nuclear plant's gymnasium, as the reactor complex was the only safe area in the vicinity to evacuate to, with the reactor operators supplying food and blankets to the needy. 
At the time Reuters suggested that the Onagawa nuclear power plant may demonstrate that it is possible for nuclear facilities to withstand the greatest natural disasters, and to retain public trust. The plant was shut down following the earthquake and tsunami, in accordance with standard legally mandated procedure after such an event, but despite the IAEA finding that the plant had survived the quake remarkably undamaged, the three units remain in cold shutdown. Whereas the mishaps at Fukushima I radically changed public opinion on safety and risks, Tohoku Electric seems to have preserved much of its pre-disaster goodwill in the area of Onagawa. While the tsunami was more than 13m high at both Fukushima I and the Onagawa power plant, the largest difference between them, apart from the reactor safety systems being designed some twenty years apart, was that the Fukushima I seawall was built to a height of just 5.7m, while the Onagawa power plant seawall was nearly  high and thus successfully blocked the majority of the tsunami from causing severe flood damage. It was this tsunami that has been determined to be solely responsible for precipitating the loss of cooling and ultimately the Fukushima disaster at Fukushima I which had a much shorter sea wall of . In response to the high tsunami, Onagawa power plant's seawall was later built up to a height of .

On 13 March 2011, two days after the earthquake and tsunami, levels of radiation on site reached 21μSv/hour, a level at which Tohoku Electric Power Company were mandated to declare a state of emergency, and they did so at 12:50, declaring the lowest-level such state. 
Within 10 minutes the level had dropped to 10μSv/hour. 
The Japanese authorities believe the temporarily heightened values were due to radiation from the Fukushima I nuclear accidents and not from the Onagawa plant. 
On 13 March, 20:45 UTC, the IAEA announced that radiation levels at the Onagawa plant had returned to normal background levels.

An 7 April 2011 aftershock damaged 2 of the 3 power lines connecting to the plant, but it did not damage any of the backup cooling systems, which remained undamaged and unneeded, including the ESWS, the ECCS and the back up diesel generators.

2013-2019 reactor restart requests 
In 2013 the owners of the station, Tohoku Electric Power Company, sent a restart request to the Nuclear Regulation Authority (NRA) for Onagawa 2. They can only be restarted after passing an assessment by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, which in turn is waiting on completion of construction of newly-required safety measures. The utility company expected to complete construction by March 2019, and planned to restart Onagawa 2 by fiscal year 2020.

In November 2019 the NRA gave approval for Onagawa 2 to be restarted subject to local approvals, consultation and  further anti-disaster work. The reactor was expected to be restarted in 2021 following upgrade work.

In contrast, Onagawa 1 has been slated for decommissioning, the tenth operable reactor to do so since the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster. Costs of bringing Onagawa 1 to the standards set by the Nuclear Regulation Authority and subsequent maintenance are considered too expensive and time-consuming in comparison to the other two units. Further complicating the issue, a new rule was set by the NRA in the wake of the Fukushima disaster which limits the operational life of nuclear reactors to 40 years. Onagawa 1 has operated since 1984, and therefore would only be able to operate a few more years even if it were approved to restart.

See also

 2011 Japanese nuclear accidents
 List of boiling water reactors
 Lists of nuclear disasters and radioactive incidents
 List of nuclear power plants in Japan

References

External links

Onagawa Nuclear Power Plant site c/o Tohoku Electric Co. 東北電力・女川原子力発電所
IAEA Alert Log

1980s establishments in Japan
Buildings and structures in Miyagi Prefecture
Nuclear power stations in Japan
Onagawa, Miyagi