[Source: PubMed]

81. Georgian Med News. 2023 Jul-Aug;(340-341):136-142.

THE IMPACT OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON INFECTIOUS DISEASES: A COMPREHENSIVE ANALYSIS OF 
VECTOR-BORNE DISEASES, WATER-BORNE DISEASES, AND PUBLIC HEALTH STRATEGIES.

Patel M G(1), Nidhi -(2), Gupta K(3), Gupta M(4), Gupta S(5), Krupa S(6).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Community Medicine, Parul University, PO Limda, Tal.Waghodia, 
District Vadodara, Gujarat, India.
(2)2Department of Nursing, IIMT University, Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(3)3Department of Ayurveda, Sanskriti University, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(4)4Department of Pharmacy, Vivekananda Global University, Jaipur, India.
(5)5Department of Community Medicine, TeerthankerMahaveer University, Moradabad, 
Uttar Pradesh, India.
(6)6Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry, School of Sciences, JAIN 
(Deemed-to-be University), Karnataka, India.

Climate change is long-term modifications to weather patterns and a rise in 
extreme weather events. It might modify the hazard to human health and 
exacerbate current problems. The article explores the scientific data in a 
description of the effects of Infectious diseases in humans and climate change. 
It identifies scientific advancements and gaps in potential responses from human 
civilization and how it might prepare for the changes that come with it by 
adjusting to them. The impact reflects three aspects, such as climate variables, 
selected infectious diseases, and infectious disease components. This study 
demonstrates how vulnerable people are to any ill consequences that climate 
change may have on their health. Humans can actively influence controllable 
correlated health impacts by taking proactive measures, such as increasing our 
understanding of the detrimental effects associated with specific diseases and 
the patterns in climate change. We can also carefully distribute technology and 
resources, encouraging exercise and public awareness. It is advised to take the 
following adaption measures: Considering how infectious diseases and climate 
change are not the only things that science has discovered and create locally 
efficient early warning systems for those effects to produce more scientific 
justifications and go beyond scientific reports. Improve prediction of the 
spatiotemporal processes behind climate change and changes in infectious 
illnesses connected at different temporal and spatial scales.

PMID: 37805887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]