[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Model Town, Lahore

is home to a growing Lahore intellectual elite. Major department stores include Metro (previously MAKRO), Pace, Raja Sahib and Victoria Store. The associated Link Road is very famous in Lahore, for its variety of shopping centers and now a newly built Amanah Mall beside McDonalds.

Model Town Park 

Model Town Park is one of the largest public parks of Lahore consisting of  of land. It was part of the original plan but was developed in 1990 by Governor Punjab General Jilani. This circular park is surrounded by the inner circular road of Model Town. People from all surrounding towns visit Model Town Park, as it offers a 2.5 km long circular jogging track, lush green lawns and serves as a social meeting spot. Human Development Forum [www.hdfpakistan.org], a forum of intellectuals of Model Town, including Dr. Ahmad Saeed, Dr. Akhtar Jafri, Qazi Javed, Prof. Imtiaz Ahmad, Prof. Tanvir Sadiq and others, arranges lectures every Sunday morning in this park near the canteen on any topic related to public life. A large number of morning walkers attend these lectures, which is a tradition that has continued for many years without fail, regardless of the weather. There is a proper 'Walkers Group' who hold tea parties and dinners among themselves. They have even printed a directory of all these walkers with their residential addresses and telephone numbers.

It was declared the best park of 2007 in Lahore by the Forest Minister. About 5000 people daily visit this park. Recently a lot of development has taken place in this park, including a new rose garden, a Chambeli garden, and a families corner near the lake with new flower beds and swings for the children. An annual flower show started in 2008; prizes are given to the best houses (flower-wise), Malis, etc. Mayor Lahore, Mian Amir Mehmood gave away the prizes to the residents and staff in 2008 and 2009.

Markets 
In the heart of Model Town is the Bank Square Market and Central Commercial Market. The C-Block Market most commonly known also as Bank Square Market is the busiest commercial area in Model Town, this market holds almost all the banks, famous eateries like GOSHI, Arabian Shawarma and Subway. Moreover, in this market you shall find pet shops and construction companies as well, Jadeed Engineering has lately opened its office in this market place which has diversified it even more. The beauty of Model Town is that every block has its own small market for grocers and bakers. The Model Town Link Road connects Model Town with Faisal Town and Township areas. On both sides of the road, there are shops for almost everything. In 2006, the Managing Committee under the Presidency of Tahir Kardar leased a vacant plot to an international cash & carry store, Makro.

Sports 
Sports facilities in the area include Model Town Greens, Model Town Whites, Nawab Mansoor Academy, Model Town Club (home of renowned tennis player Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi), Amir Mehmood's Club, and International Cricket Academy (LDA). Model Town also has its own Football Academy and Football Club, known popularly as Model Town Football Academy (or MTFA/MTFC). The Academy caters to all age-groups with a strict training regime. It is based at the D-block football ground. Another upcoming football club is the Fame Football Club, situated in B-block football ground.

Library
It is located in F Block (). It contains 40,000 books. Since it is a public library, membership is available at 511 Rupees. Separate reading halls for newspapers also exist. Loadshedding affects the daily routine. A Computer Lab also exists. The library remains closed annually for a month most often in September. As a library it is very important to the residents of Model Town Lahore. A proportion of the books are only used as a reference and cannot be issued. With the lending library only two books can be issued at a time.
 The condition of the library has deteriorated and needs urgent attention.

Security 
Model Town society ensured security for its residents by building barriers at each exit except the four main entrances. These barriers (gates) are closed after 9 pm and only four entrances (Ferozepur Road entrance, Link Road entrance, Mariyan entrance, and Arfa Karim Park entrance) are open 24 hours a day.

The crime rate has been minimized by this action. Now Model Town society also issues stickers for its residents' vehicles.

Schools and colleges
 Govt. Shuhda-a-APS Model High School Model Town Lahore
 Quaid-e-Azam Law College
 Divisional Public School
 Model Town Library
 The City School
 Grand Charter School
 Beaconhouse School System
 Lahore Grammar School
Govt. College For Women

References

External links 
 Model Town Society