[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Landon Carter Haynes

re, and accused Johnson of having opposed railroad construction and supporting Whig candidates.  Johnson noted that Haynes had voted for Whig Governor Newton Cannon in 1839, and pointed out that Haynes had been expelled from the Methodist ministry.  Johnson won the election by just over 1,600 votes.

After a hiatus in which he focused on his law practice, Haynes reentered politics in 1859 when he again ran for Congress.  This time, his opponent was his old law mentor, T.A.R. Nelson.  Haynes championed states' rights and secession, while Nelson ran on a pro-Union platform.  Unlike the 1851 campaign, the 1859 canvass was relatively cordial, with Haynes at one point coming to Nelson's defense after a newspaper had misquoted him. On election day, Nelson edged Haynes by just 90 votes.

American Civil War
During the presidential election of 1860, Haynes was an at-large elector for John C. Breckinridge, a position which required him to canvass the entire state.  At one point, he jointly campaigned with his brother-in-law, Nathaniel G. Taylor, who was an elector for John Bell.  In January 1861, following Abraham Lincoln's victory, Haynes joined a growing chorus of Tennesseans who called for the state to align itself with the burgeoning Confederate States of America.

In July 1861, after Tennessee had seceded, Haynes wrote to Confederate Secretary of War LeRoy P. Walker, warning him that East Tennessee was a hotbed of pro-Union activity, and expressing concerns that Unionists might attack bridges along the critical East Tennessee and Virginia Railroad (the latter of which was realized in November when Union guerrillas destroyed five railroad bridges in the region).  He asked that Confederate troops be sent to occupy parts of East Tennessee to discourage Unionists, which Walker granted.

On October 24, 1861, the Tennessee General Assembly elected Haynes to one of the state's two seats in the Confederate Senate (the other went to Gustavus A. Henry).  As a senator, he sought higher pay for troops, and introduced legislation that would allow pay for POWs to be sent to their families.  He supported conscription, but sought exemptions for members of state militias and overseers of plantations with twenty or more slaves.  He supported the continued suspension of habeas corpus, but called for an end to martial law, and demanded that any civilians arrested for pro-Union activities be tried in civilian courts.  Haynes favored fiscal conservatism, and called for the sale of cotton and tobacco to buy back Confederate-issued bank notes, which had depreciated.

As the war came to an end in 1865, Haynes moved to Memphis, and was granted amnesty by his old congressional opponent, Andrew Johnson, who was now president.  In June 1866, however, he was arrested and indicted for treason by a Knoxville court (possibly at the urging of Brownlow, who was now governor).  In a letter to Johnson seeking another pardon, he argued that he would not receive a fair trial in Knoxville, since, "Mr. Brownlow ... does not love me with the tenderness of sensibility which his pious profession and Christian duties require him to do."  Johnson granted the pardon a few days later.

Later life
Haynes spent the remainder of his life in Memphis, practicing law.  In 1872, he attended a banquet in Jackson, Tennessee, where he was introduced by Nathan B. Forrest, who pointed out that Haynes was from the "godforsaken" pro-Union region of East Tennessee.  Haynes responded with a speech, "East Tennessee: An Apostrophe," in which he reminisced about the region's beauty, and longed to return.  The speech was republished numerous times in subsequent years. Haynes died in Memphis on February 17, 1875.  He was initially buried in the city's Elmwood Cemetery, but was reinterred in Jackson Cemetery in Jackson in 1902.

Legacy
For decades after his death, Haynes was remembered primarily for his speaking ability.  T.A.R. Nelson described him as the "Cicero of America," and author Frank Richardson (1831–1912) called him a "silver-tongued orator." During the Civil War, Johnson's Depot, near Haynes's farm, was renamed "Haynesville" in his honor.  After the war, the town reverted to its original name, and incorporated as Johnson City shortly afterward. Prior to his move to Memphis, Haynes sold his farm, the Tipton-Haynes Place, to his brother-in-law, Lawson Gifford.  In 1945, Gifford's grandson sold the farm to the Tennessee Historical Commission.  The farm is now managed as the Tipton-Haynes State Historic Site.