[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iran–Italy relations

ained would be divided between Eni and NIOC, granting Iran a total share of 75%. On 14 March 1957 a deal between Eni and NIOC was signed and in the same year, on 8 September the SIRIP, Società Irano-Italienne des Pétroles, was born. The agreement failed and Mattei died in 1962 in an aeroplane crash.

Italy was the first commercial partner of Iran from 2006 to 2012. In those same years, since Iran decided to keep pursuing its plan to develop and use nuclear energy, the US and the EU imposed economic and financial sanctions on some key sectors for Iran. Those penalties weighed on its trade with Italy. In 2013 Hassan Rouhani, the seventh President of the Islamic Republic of Iran considered Italy as the door to establish the relations with the rest of the EU. Until the sanctions imposed by the Security Council on Iran for the enrichment of depleted uranium, Iranian oil reserves covered 90% of Italy's oil needs. The embargo was revoked only in January 2014, followed by an Interim Deal between UE+3 and Iran, established in 2013. The following year, after the conclusion of the deal on nuclear energy oil, an Italian delegation guided by Carlo Calenda, consisting in Confindustria's leaders and CEI that represented 180 small-medium companies and 12 banks, arrived in Iran. The goal was to prepare the state for the removal of penalties imposed in 2006 for the nuclear program.

After the entry into force of the JCPOA in 2015 and the interruption of the sanctions, Rouhani chose Italy for his first state trip. On this occasion, the memorandum of understanding for a total of twenty billion euros was signed. Among the most important groups involved there were Pessina, Saipem, Danieli, Fincantieri, Gavio Group, COET, Vitali, SEA, Enel, Belleli, Stefano Boeri Architetti, Itway, Italtel, Marcegaglia, Fata Spa, IMQ, and so on.

Many agreements never materialized, due to the primary sanctions imposed by the US, but also secondary sanctions not related to the nuclear problem. Large banking groups, due to their links with the US market, could not make transactions to the Iran market. They risked incurring US Treasury sanctions. Part of this problem was addressed in January 2018 by the Ministry of Economic Development with the proposal of a Master Credit Agreement. It intended to regulate any future financing agreement concluded between Invitalia Global Investment and Iranian banks for a total amount of five billion euros and was covered by a sovereign guarantee issued by the Iranian state. The agreement, however, is still waiting for the transformation into a decree-law to become effective.

Economic relations 
Italy has been and is significantly present in Iran's foreign relations. Although the economic and commercial relations between the two countries have experienced ups and downs over time, Italy has ranked at the top in Europe in terms of volume of trade with the Islamic Republic of Iran. In 2010, the volume of trade relations between the two countries exceeded seven billion euros. In 2015 with the imposition of severe sanctions on Iran, the volume of trade fell to less than two billion euros. With the signing of the Nuclear Agreement and subsequently the exchange of visits by the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the then Prime Minister of Italy to Rome and Tehran respectively, agreements and MoUs for a value of 30 billion euro were signed for economic and commercial collaborations between the two countries, as well as the opening of a credit line (MCA) which had laid the foundations for an important leap forward in bilateral relations.

Economic relations between the two countries have had an evolution after the signing of the nuclear agreement. Economic operators and political parties in both countries, through a precise understanding of mutual national interests, have been able to create the conditions for the development of relations. Therefore, the significant decrease in the volume of economic relations between the two countries in 2021 is mainly due to external factors and in the last year in particular with two main elements: the US threats against Iran's economic partners in Italy and the coronavirus epidemic.

Cultural relations
In accordance with a Treaty on cultural cooperation between Italy and Iran from 1958, and the following Executive Protocols, the Embassy of Italy in Iran enhances bilateral cultural relations in the fields of the development and spread of the Italian language, musical, artistic, theatrical, cinematographic and scientific heritage. The Treaty was signed by Amintore Fanfani, President of the Council and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and His Majesty The Sciahinsciah of Iran. The Treaty was at the basis of the following treaties between the two countries.