[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mikhail Artemyevich Muravyov

On June 13, Muravyov was appointed commander of the Eastern Front. The German ambassador Wilhelm von Mirbach, wanting to motivate Muravyov to join the Bolsheviks in the fight against the Czechoslovak Legion, handed him a bribe. However, this did not prevent him from rebelling against the Bolsheviks.

During the Left SR uprising, Lenin began to doubt Muravyov’s loyalty, ordering the Revolutionary Military Council of the eastern front to secretly monitor his actions: "Report Muravyov’s statement about the rebellion of the Left Socialist Revolutionaries. Continue close monitoring". Muravyov rebelled, having received news from Moscow and fearing arrest due to Bolshevik suspicions of disloyalty. Muravyov himself, during the events, declared that he "acted independently, but the Left SR Central Committee knows everything." On the night of July 9–10, Muravyov, having left the front headquarters in Kazan, without the knowledge of the military council of the front, loaded two regiments loyal to him onto steamers and left the city. He even managed to transfer the local communist squad from Simbirsk to Bugulma by order of the front.

He opposed the conclusion of the Brest-Litovsk Treaty with Germany, declared himself "commander in chief of the army operating against Germany", and sent a telegraph to the Council of People's Commissars of the RSFSR, the German embassy in Moscow and the command of the Czechoslovak Legion, declaring war on Germany. The troops of the front and the Czechoslovak Legion (with which he had to fight before the rebellion) were ordered to move to the Volga and further west to repulse the German invasion. He took the initiative to create the so-called Volga Soviet Republic led by the Left Socialist Revolutionaries Maria Spiridonova, Boris Kamkov and Vladimir Karelin.

In a joint government appeal, Lenin and Trotsky stated that "The former commander-in-chief on the Czech-Slovak front, the left Socialist Revolutionary Muravyov, is declared a traitor and an enemy of the people. Every honest citizen is obliged to shoot him on the spot".

On July 11, Muravyov, with a detachment of a thousand people, arrived at Simbirsk, occupied strategic points of the city and arrested leading Bolsheviks, including the commander of the 1st Army Mikhail Tukhachevsky. Muravyov appeared at a meeting of the executive committee of the provincial Council, together with representatives of the Left Socialist Revolutionaries. At that time, the local Left SRs were not yet removed from power and held the posts of military, land and food provincial commissars. By this time, the chairman of the local Bolshevik party committee had managed to secretly place Latvian riflemen, an armored squad and a special detachment of the Cheka around the building. During the meeting, the Red Guards and the Cheka came out from the ambush and announced the arrest of everyone in the building. Muravyov put up armed resistance and was killed in the fighting.

References

External links
 Hronos.ru biography page (in Russian)

1880 births
1918 deaths
People from Nizhny Novgorod Oblast
People from Varnavinsky Uyezd
Imperial Russian Army officers
Russian military personnel of the Russo-Japanese War
Russian military personnel of World War I
Russian mass murderers
Soviet military personnel killed in action
Soviet military personnel of the Russian Civil War
Soviet people of the Ukrainian–Soviet War
Anti-Ukrainian sentiment
Politicide perpetrators
Deaths by firearm in Russia
Nobility from the Russian Empire
War criminals