[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Doris Stevens

s, Stevens had planned to remain in San Francisco and run the exposition booth of CUWS, but she was forced to return to Washington because the eastern delegate Margaret Whittemore had left due to her marriage. Stevens immediately began planning for a convention to be held in Washington in December. 

At the beginning of 1916, Stevens announced the policy that the CUWS had organized in twenty-two states and planned on recruiting delegates for each of the 435 House Districts. The delegates were required to form committees to press Congressional Members to favor suffrage and make them aware that their constituents were in favor of women attaining the vote. Another strategy Stevens began implementing early in 1916 required CUWS members to go to other states in which women were allowed to vote, establish residence and register to vote. In this way, they could vote in state and national elections in the hope of filling the legislature with legislators who favored suffrage. Stevens registered to vote in Kansas that year. On June 5, 1916, the CUWS became the National Woman's Party (NWP), having a single platform to acquire a constitutional amendment for national women's suffrage. After attending the NWP convention in Chicago in June, Stevens headed to a convention in Colorado. By October, Stevens was organizing and managing the NWP election campaign in California.

Arrest
Due to the United States' entry into World War I, some suffragists stopped their activism in 1917 because it might be seen as "unpatriotic;" Stevens, instead, insisted that it was "arrogant of Wilson to fight for democracy abroad when women were not included in democracy at home." In January after a delegation of NWP members had a disappointing meeting with President Woodrow Wilson, it was decided that they would protest at the White House every day, standing as Silent Sentinels until Wilson recognized the importance of their cause. The women maintained their post for over a year disregarding weather conditions and the threat of arrest. Though she performed other organizational tasks, such as organizing the North Carolina branch of the NWP in March, Stevens participated as a sentinel. She and fifteen other women were arrested for picketing at the White House on Bastille Day, in July 1917, charged with obstructing the sidewalk, and served three days of their 60-day sentence at Occoquan Workhouse before receiving a pardon from President Wilson. The women were placed within the prison population, given no toothbrushes, combs or toiletries and were surprised that they were required to share a water dipper with the rest of the prisoners.

Stevens met her first husband, Dudley Field Malone, when he represented her for her protest in front of the White House. He had been serving as an Assistant Secretary of State in the Wilson cabinet, but was converted to the suffragist cause and resigned his post. He appeared with Stevens at fundraising events and helped raise thousands of dollars for their cause, which was gaining momentum, as President Wilson finally endorsed enfranchisement. Between 1918 and 1919, Stevens continued alternating speaking engagements and picketing. She was arrested again, along with Elsie Hill, Alice Paul and three "Jane Doe" suffragists at the NWP demonstration of the Metropolitan Opera House in New York in March 1919. On September 4, 1920, the fight was won when Secretary of State Bainbridge Colby proclaimed the necessary 36 states had ratified the 19th Amendment with Tennessee's ratification. Stevens published the quintessential insider account of the imprisonment of NWP activists, Jailed for Freedom, in 1920.

Over the years, Stevens held several important NWP leadership positions, including Legislative Chairman and membership on the executive committee. In 1920, Alva Belmont was elected president of the NWP and Stevens served as Belmont’s personal assistant, even writing Belmont's autobiography. Belmont and Steven's relationship was contentious, but the younger Stevens accepted years of control by Belmont over many of her personal actions. Traveling to Europe with Belmont for work of the NWP, Belmont insisted that Steven's fiancé could not join them and when he did, Belmont removed to France without Stevens.

On December 5, 1921, in Peekskill, New York, Stevens and Malone were secretly married by a hardware store owner who was a Justice of the Peace and immediately sailed for their two-month honeymoon in Paris. Stevens announced she would not take Malone's name and would remain "Doris Stevens". From the middle of the 1920s, Stevens lived primarily in Croton-on-Hudson, New York, where she became friends with leading members of the Greenwich Village radical scene and bohemians, including Louise Bryant, Max and Crystal Eastman, Edna St. Vincent Millay, John Reed and others. Stevens divorced Malone in 1929 after a string of infidelities on both sides and failed attempts at reconciliation.