[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nigel Harris (economist)

al and economic forms under capitalism meant that he was also something of an outcast amongst those whose views he had earlier  shared. But he did have an important supporter in David Lockwood who both wrote with him and has authored separate studies of Russia and India that reflected his influence.

Support for migration and opposition to immigration controls
Harris's arguments for immigration have also to be understood in this wider context. His pro-immigration arguments operate at two levels. The first is a focus on the economic calculus where he argues that immigration benefits  not only migrants but the leaving and destination societies. The most dynamic societies and the most dynamic  cities are those that most engage with migration. Governments that try to restrict it therefore reduce the welfare of all as well, and engage in policies that are dangerous politically. Behind these arguments, however, lie deeper ones about both the right of humans to inherit the earth as a whole and the more specific ways that a global capitalism tends to create not simply a global capitalist class, but a global working class based on the new world workers. The latter can be unified to fight for their own interest and overcome national divisions, much in the way that Marx had hoped in the Communist Manifesto they would, but which a working class movement has not, so far, achieved because of national divisions.

Selected publications
Beliefs in Society: The Problem of Ideology (1971)
World Crisis: Essays in Revolutionary Socialism (co-edited with John Palmer) (1971)
Competition and the Corporate Society: British Conservatives, the State and Industry, 1945–64 (1972)
India–China: Underdevelopment and Revolution (1974)
The Mandate of Heaven: Marx and Mao in Modern China (1978)
Economic Development, Cities and Planning: The Case of Bombay (1978)
Why Import Controls Won't Save jobs: The Socialist Case (with Duncan Hallas) (1981)
Of Bread and Guns: The World Economy in Crisis (1983)
The End of the Third World: Newly Industrialising Countries and the Decline of an Ideology (1987)
Why Half the World Goes Hungry (1987)
National Liberation (1990)
City, Class and Trade: Social and Economic Change in the Third World (1991)
Cities in the 1990s: The Challenge for Developing Countries (editor) (1992)
The New Untouchables: Immigration and the New World Worker(1996)
Cities and Structural Adjustment (co-edited with Ida Fabricius) (1996)
Jobs for the Poor: A Case Study in Cuttack (1996)
Thinking the Unthinkable: The Immigration Myth Exposed (2002)
The Return of Cosmopolitan Capital: Globalisation, the State and War (2003)
The Terrorist (2007)

References

External links
 Website
 Entry at openDemocracy 
 The Mandate of Heaven - Marx and Mao in Modern China (online version of Harris's 1978 critique of Chinese communism)
 Nigel Harris Internet Archive
 Head to head: Immigration debate. Professor Nigel Harris says all immigration controls should be abolished. BBC, 25 June 2002.
 "Refugees, economic migration and the future of the world economy" (lecture video). Gresham College, 01/12/2009.

1935 births
British economists
British Trotskyists
Living people
Socialist Workers Party (UK) members
Academics of University College London
Alumni of the University of Oxford