[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Principles of intelligent urbanism

ust be a unique domain for social groups, familiar or biological, which have organized themselves into households. These domestic precincts are where families live and carry out their day-to-day functions of life. This third tier of conviviality is where the individual socializes into a personality.

Housing clusters planned according to this axiom create a variety of household possibilities, which respond to a range of household structures and situations.  It recognizes that households transform through the years, requiring a variety of dwellings types that respond to a complex matrix of needs and abilities, which are provided for in city plans.

A place for the neighborhood
Smaller household domains must cluster into a higher social domain, the neighborhood social group.
Good city planning practice sponsors, through design, such units of social space.  It is in this fourth tier of social life that public conduct takes on new dimensions and groups learn to live peacefully among one another.  It is through neighborhoods that the “social contract" amongst diverse households and individuals is sponsored.  This social contract is the rational basis for social relations and negotiations within larger social groups. Within neighborhoods basic amenities like creches, early learning centers, preventive health care and rudimentary infrastructure are maintained by the community.

A place for communities
The next social tier, or hierarchy, is the community.  Historically, communities were tribes who shared social mores and cultural behavioral patterns.  In contemporary urban settings communities are formed of diverse people.  But these are people who share the common need to negotiate and manage their spatial settings. In plans created through the principles of intelligent urbanism these are called urban villages.  Like a rural village, social bonds are found in the community management of security, common resources and social space. Urban villages will have defined social spaces, services and amenities that need to be managed by the community.  According to proponents of intelligent urbanism these urban villages optimally become the administrative wards, and therefore the constituencies, of the elected members of municipal bodies.  Though there are no physical barriers to these communities, they have their unique spatial social domain.  Intelligent urbanism calls for the creation of dense, walkable zones in which the inhabitants recognize each other's faces, share common facilities and resources, and often see each other at the village centre. This fifth tier of social space is where one needs initiative to join into various activities.  It is intended to promote initiative and constructive community participation.  There are opportunities for one to be involved in the management of services, and amenities and to meet new people. They accommodate primary education and recreation areas. Good planning practice promotes the creation of community places, where community-based organizations can manage common resources and resolve common problems.

A place for the city domain
The principles of intelligent urbanism call for city level domains.  These can be plazas, parks, stadia, transport hubs, promenades, "passages" or gallerias.  These are social spaces where everyone can go.  In many cities one has to pay an entrance fee to access “public spaces" like malls and museums.  Unlike the lower tiers of the social hierarchy, this tier is not defined by any biological, familiar, face-to-face or exclusive characteristic.  One may find people from all continents, from nearby districts and provinces and from all parts of the city in such places. By nature these are accessible and open spaces, with no physical, social or economic barriers. According to this principle it is the rules of human conduct that order this domain's behavior.  It is civility, or civilization, which protects and energizes such spaces.  At the lower tiers, one meets people through introductions, through family ties, and through neighborhood circumstances.

These domains would include all freely accessible large spaces. These are places where outdoor exhibits are held, sports matches take place, vegetables are sold and goods are on display. These are places where visitors to the city meander amongst the locals. Such places may stay the same, but the people are always changing.  Most significant, these city scale public domains foster public interaction; they sponsor unspoken ground rules for unknown people to meet and to interact.  They nurture civic understanding of the strength of diversity, variety, a range of cultural groups and ethnic mixes. It is this higher tier of social space which defines truly urbane environments.