[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ivan Rakitić

2019–20 season and his role in the team decreased following the arrival of Frenkie de Jong. In October 2019 the player stated: "I want to play, and not just enjoy walking around Barcelona and the sea. I talked to the people in the club, everyone knew about the other options I had, it was no secret."

On 13 June 2020, in Barcelona's first game after the COVID-19 pandemic, Rakitić celebrated his 300th official game in Barcelona's jersey as the club defeated Mallorca 4–0. On 23 June, he scored his first goal of the season in a 1–0 victory over Athletic Bilbao, securing important three points in the title race. After Barcelona lost 8–2 to Bayern Munich in the Champions League quarter-final on 14 August and coach Quique Setién was sacked, newly appointed coach Ronald Koeman informed Rakitić that he was not part of his plans for the upcoming season, alongside teammates Luis Suárez, Arturo Vidal and Samuel Umtiti. At the time of his departure from the club, Rakitić had more appearances for the club than any other European non-Spanish player in its history.

Return to Sevilla
On 1 September 2020, Rakitić signed for Sevilla on a four-year contract, returning to the club after six years for a nominal €1.5m fee.

On 24 September, he played his first game for Sevilla after coming back, against Bayern Munich in the UEFA Super Cup in Budapest. He won a penalty after being tackled by David Alaba, which Lucas Ocampos successfully converted; however, Bayern came from behind to win the game 2–1 after extra time. Three days later, he scored his first goal since his return as Sevilla defeated Cádiz 3–1. On 10 February 2021, he scored a goal in the Copa del Rey semi-final to seal a 2–0 victory over his former club Barcelona.

On 23 August 2021, in a 1–0 victory over Getafe, Rakitić played his jubilee 200th match for Sevilla.
On 31 May 2023, he won his second Europa League trophy with Sevilla.

International career
Rakitić's first international experience came at youth level with the Switzerland under-17, under-19 and under-21 national teams, but decided to accept the call-up by Croatia national team coach Slaven Bilić and play for the nation's senior team. He made his full international debut for Croatia on 8 September 2007 in their UEFA Euro 2008 qualifier against Estonia in Zagreb, highly praised by the fans as he was entering the game as a substitute. In Croatia's following qualifier, a 0–6 away win over Andorra on 12 September 2007, he scored his first international goal for Croatia in only his second appearance for the team. He finished the year 2007 with five senior international caps to his name, four of which were in the successful Euro 2008 qualifying campaign.

Euro 2008
In early May 2008, he joined Croatia's squad for the Euro 2008 tournament in Austria and Switzerland, where he was the second-youngest player in the tournament. He made his first appearance at the tournament as a starter against Germany, and eventually provided a shot which ricocheted off the post and allowed teammate Ivica Olić to score the second goal in their 2–1 victory. He formed a praised trio of Croatian attacking midfielders with his teammates Luka Modrić and Niko Kranjčar. Though playing a strong role against Turkey in the quarter-finals of the tournament, Rakitić went on to miss one of the three unsuccessful penalties in the shootout, thus leading to a victory for Turkey.

Rakitić continued to appear regularly for Croatia during their unsuccessful qualifying campaign for the 2010 FIFA World Cup, making a total of ten appearances and scoring three goals in the competition. On 15 October 2008, he scored a brace in a 4–0 win at home to Andorra. On 5 September 2009, he scored the match-winning goal in a 1–0 win at home to Belarus. Croatia failed to qualify for the finals after finishing third in their group.

Euro 2012

After appearing in all of their Euro 2012 qualifiers, he was selected to be part of the Croatian squad at the Euro finals in Poland and Ukraine. Croatia were drawn in Group C together with Spain, Italy and the Republic of Ireland. Rakitić started in all three of Croatia group stage matches. After two matches played, Croatia had four points and were facing defending champions Spain in Gdańsk. With the game goalless and entering the final half-hour, Rakitić burst into the Spanish penalty area but could not direct his header past goalkeeper Iker Casillas after being picked out by a wonderful Luka Modrić pass. It proved to be a costly miss, with Spain's Jesús Navas later scoring an 88th-minute winner to send the Croatians crashing out.