[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Nicolas Schöffer

part temporary exhibitions were organized, the office moved in and an apartment was reserved for Schöffer on the second floor. Eléonore de Lavandeyra Schöffer donated a French library to the museum in 1994, which was also set up in the new building. Schöffer organized international conferences here.

This patchwork of buildings and functions was an emergency solution after the donations but could no longer satisfy the current demands. In 2015 fifteen tourist sites were developed in the city in the framework of the Heart of Kalocsa program including two sites related to Schöffer.  The Chronos 8 cybernetic tower was renovated and the museum rebuilt. The old buildings were demolished and completely rebuilt. The new museum satisfies contemporary international standards and plays a major role in the art education of schoolchildren. Temporary exhibitions and annual international conferences take place.

Nicolas Schöffer's books 
The most important written sources that summarize Nicolas Schöffer's ideas are his own books and writings. He summarized his theories on art, architecture and urbanism in ten books.

The first book entitled Le Spatiodynamisme appeared in 1955 and contains the text of the lecture given by Schöffer in June 1954 in the Turgot Amphitheater of the Sorbonne University at the conferences organized by the French Society of Aesthetics. In this book he defines his own term spaziodynamism and describes his ideas about the dynamics of the interaction between sculpture and space. He redefines the role of the sculptor and the role of sculpture in urban space. He establishes a new scientific discipline plasticosociology.  Its task is to study the effects of the sculptural environment on human behavior. The aim of this analysis is to enhance the city's social fabric by improving the visual stimuli in the urban environment.

The books La Ville Cybernétique (1972) and La nouvelle charte de la ville summarize Nicolas Schöffer's visions of the city of the future. The book Le nouvel esprit artistique contains texts and manifestos in which Nicolas Schöffer explains the principles of his mature theories of spatiodynamics, luminodynamics and chronodynamics and deals with the role and task of art in our knowledge society.

The book La Tour Lumière Cybernétique describes Schöffer's cybernetic light tower that he planned for La Défensee district of Paris. Perturbation et chronocratie is a study of the disturbances that upset our mental and social structures. Nicolas Schöffer questions how a cybernetic awareness can progressively dominate a destabilized human destiny. He explains his view about quantity becoming quality in the course of a social revolution.

We are all linearized. Time is linear, language is linear and our thought, closely linked to language, is also linear. Schöffer asks the question how to escape it. The book titled La Théorie des miroirs analyzes and develops the phenomenon of inversion in all its aspects from image to thought through language, and thus opens new perspectives.

In Surface et Espace, the last book published during his lifetime, Nicolas Schöffer returns to the principles of his work and artistic creation with a dense text illustrated with drawings and colour plates, some of which were produced using the computer. The book covers works of the third creative period: Choreographics and Ordigraphics.

Also of note is his essay entitled Sonic and Visual Structures: Theory and Experiment, published in Leonardo in 1985. In this essay, Schöffer explains his views on music and its role in society. The Leonardo magazine was founded in 1968 in Paris by kinetic artist and astronautical pioneer Frank Malina and is today a leading source for people interested in scientific, technological and artistic development.

The Nicolas Schöffer archive homepage was to be found as part of the Observatoire Leonardo des Arts et des Techno-Sciences website (olats.org). Since the death of Eléonore de Lavandeyra Schöffer it is no longer available.

Writings about Schöffer 
The first Schöffer monograph was published in 1963 by Edition du Griffon Swiss Publishing House. After the introductory words by Jean Cassou, the monograph contains two essays by Guy Habasque and Jacques Ménétrier. Photographer of the illustrations was Robert Doisneau. Accompanying the publication was a vinyl record of Pierre Henry's concrete music. Another Schöffer monograph published by Presses du réel appeared in 2004 with texts by Eric Mangion and Maude Ligier. Tamás Aknai wrote a Schöffer monograph in his home country in 1975.