[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Martin D. Hardin

f the U.S. Constitution. His entry in the 1936 Dictionary of American Biography notes that, while some of his fellow Kentuckians believed he was a Federalist, Hardin was actually a national Democrat who probably would have associated with the Whig Party had he lived long enough to see its formation.

In April 1812, as the War of 1812 became more imminent, Hardin wrote to Isaac Shelby, Kentucky's first governor and a hero of the Revolutionary War, asking him to consent to being a candidate in the upcoming gubernatorial election. Shelby went on to win the election, and Hardin, who had by this time relocated to Frankfort, was elected to represent Franklin County in the Kentucky House. In August 1812, shortly after the  election, Shelby appointed Hardin Secretary of State. According to Shelby's executive journal, Hardin resigned on or before February 3, 1813. The next day, Shelby nominated Hardin's assistant, former Governor Christopher Greenup, to replace him. Greenup served only a month, resigning on March 11, 1813, after which Hardin was re-appointed and served for the remainder of Shelby's term.

Hardin volunteered for service in the War of 1812. He was one of two majors serving under John Allen; future Kentucky Governor George Madison was the other. Hardin's unit pursued Tecumseh through northern Ohio and Michigan and participated in the Battle of the River Raisin.

On November 13, 1816, Governor Gabriel Slaughter appointed Hardin to the U.S. Senate seat vacated when William T. Barry resigned. The appointment was only effective until the General Assembly convened later that year. When the Kentucky Senate convened, the senators elected him to serve out the remainder of Barry's term. Hardin did not seek re-election at the expiration of the term. In total, he served from November 13, 1816 to March 3, 1817.

In 1818, Hardin returned to the Kentucky House, serving until 1820 and acting as Speaker of the House from 1819 to 1820.

Later life and death
In December 1820, Hardin was a candidate to become president of the Bank of Kentucky, but John Harvie was chosen instead. The following year, he was chosen as a presidential elector, voting for James Monroe.

Hardin died in Frankfort in 1823, and was interred on his farm in Franklin County, Kentucky. His remains were later re-interred in the State Cemetery in Frankfort.

References

Bibliography

Further reading
 American National Biography

External links 
 

1780 births
1823 deaths
Pennsylvania politicians
Hardin family of Kentucky
American people of French descent
Democratic-Republican Party United States senators from Kentucky
1820 United States presidential electors
Secretaries of State of Kentucky
Members of the Kentucky House of Representatives
Speakers of the Kentucky House of Representatives
Kentucky lawyers
American lawyers admitted to the practice of law by reading law
Politicians from Frankfort, Kentucky
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American lawyers
Transylvania University alumni
American militia officers
American militiamen in the War of 1812
Military personnel from Kentucky
Burials at Frankfort Cemetery
United States senators who owned slaves