[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Freienfeld

Freienfeld (;  ) is a comune (municipality) and a village in the province of South Tyrol in northern Italy, located about  north of the city of Bolzano.

Geography
As of 30 November 2010, it had a population of 2,668 and an area of .

Freienfeld is located in the Eisacktal,  north of Brixen and  south of Sterzing along the State road SS 12 where the valley opens up, just before Mauls, reaching the plain of Sterzing. The original core of Trens is situated on an elevated position on the eastern side of the "Trens Summit", while the village has evolved downward up to the state road, beyond this there is the  Brenner railway, the Eisack river and the motorway A22. The municipality also includes the villages of Stilfes and Mauls, the first in the plain in front of Trens beyond the river, the second  to the south at the entrance of the homonymous valley.

Neighbour municipalities 
Freienfeld borders the following municipalities: Franzensfeste, Ratschings, Mühlbach, Sarntal, Pfitsch, and Sterzing.

Frazioni 
The municipality of Freienfeld contains the frazioni (subdivisions, mainly villages and hamlets) Egg (Pruno), Elzenbaum, Flans (Flanes), Mauls (Mules), Niederried (Novale Basso), Pfulters (Fuldres), Ritzail (Rizzolo), Sprechenstein (Castelpietra), Stilfes (Stilves), Trens and Valgenäun (Valgenauna).

History

Origin
The town was already inhabited in prehistoric times, as shown by archaeological finds at the St. Valentine Church in Valgenäun, as in the Roman period, a milestone of Septimius Severus, dating back to 201 AD, was found in Freienfeld; the tombstone of Aurelia Ruffino and the sacred stone dedicated to the god of light Mithras were found in Mules. In 450 the territory was invaded by Bavarii during their migration southbound. In a document dating from 827, Quartino made a gift of his property, including the villages of Stilfes and Trens to the Church of Innichen, while in 990 Adalbert von Stilfes donated to the Diocese of Brixen the villages of Stilfes, Niederried, Mauls and the valleys nearby.

In 1100 at the Stilfes was entrusted by the Bishop's powers, the administration of the Eisack Valley based at Castle Rafeinstein; in 1200, due to the extinction of the family, the bishop transferred the authority to the Trauston who obtained, as a feud, the Sprechenstein Castle. In 1525, during the period of peasant struggles, the church of Stilfes was sacked several times.

From 1809
In August 1809 during the Tyrolean Rebellion, in an ambush near "Grassstein",  500 Saxons who fought for the French troops as the Rhine were captured by the Tyroleans, in retaliation the village of Flans was fired.

The reorganization of Commons, made in 1849, led to a reduction of these, from nine to three: Stilfes, Trens and Mauls. On October 18, 1928, by decree, the three municipalities were reunited in a single, the Municipality of Freienfeld.

Nearby the village of Mauls, take place one of the defences of the “Vallo Alpino Littorio in Alto Adige”, a set of bunkers wanted by Benito Mussolini, which formed the Mauls barrage. In the last period of the Second World War, the area was hit by bombing the railway bridge over the river and the ammunition storage at Stilfes.

The Municipality of Freienfeld joined, in 1967, the Community of the Valleys of the Eisacktal  until 1979 to establish, together with the other municipalities, the Wipptal District Community.

Coat-of-arms
The emblem of the Municipality of Freienfeld consists of argent equilateral triangle, with the sides curved inward, inscribed in a vert shield. The three vert sectors mean the three municipalities: Trens, Stilfes and Mauls, and the white part is the central Municipality of Freienfeld. The emblem was granted in 1968.

Main sight

Religious architecture