[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# N. Ram

mber 2005.

Ram has been chosen for the prestigious Raja Ram Mohan Roy Award, presented by the Press Council of India, for his outstanding contribution towards journalism, the Councils announced on 5 November 2018.
The award will be presented on 16 November on the occasion of the National Press Day.

Controversies
On 25 January 2012, Mr. K.C. Palaniswamy a former AIADMK Member of Parliament registered a complaint against Ram and eight others with the Chennai police, accusing them of a 400-acre land grab scam, worth nearly 3 billion. Ram filed and received an anticipatory bail in the case 

In 2012, shortly after Ram was honoured by his alma mater, the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University, Chitra Subramaniam alleged that he was responsible for compromising the identity of their source on the Bofors story and that she had not received her due as the journalist who broke the story. Ram denied the allegations.

Personal life
Ram's first wife Susan was an English woman who came to India as a research student. Like Ram, she was (and remains) an atheist with a Leftist perspective on politics. After their marriage, Susan worked as a teacher, a freelance journalist, an editor for Oxford University Press publications in India and a television presenter. As a husband and wife team, they published the first volume of a biography on R. K. Narayan, the eminent Indian writer.

Ram and Susan's daughter, Vidya Ram, became a journalist and graduated at the top of the class at her father's alma mater. She also won a Pulitzer fellowship, was an intern at The New York Times, a reporter at Forbes and is the European Correspondent at Business Line.

After the divorce from Susan, Ram married Mariam Chandy, a Malayali Christian. It was Mariam's second marriage as well. Mariam comes from a prosperous family that owned the now defunct Travancore National and Quilon Bank, liquidated in 1938. She has worked in advertising agencies, HTA and O&M. Mariam Ram is presently the managing director of TNQ Books and Journals, that she founded in Chennai in 1998. The company does editing, pagination and design for scientific, technical and medical publishers of the US, the UK and the European Union. As of 2008, the company had an annual turnover of 50 crores and employs 1200 staff.

During his youth, Ram played cricket and was the wicket-keeper Batsman for the Tamil Nadu state team in the Ranji trophy.

References

External links
 

1945 births
Living people
Bofors scandal
Indian Marxists
Indian atheists
Recipients of the Padma Bhushan in literature & education
Presidency College, Chennai alumni
University of Madras alumni
Madras Christian College alumni
Indian newspaper editors
Writers from Chennai
Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism alumni
Loyola College, Chennai alumni
The Hindu journalists
Indian male journalists
Journalists from Tamil Nadu
20th-century Indian journalists
Sri Lanka Rathna