[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# November 1942

he Prince of Monaco due to the support of his old army colleague, Marshal Philippe Pétain.
The Turkish parliament passes the Varlık Vergisi, a capital tax mostly levied on non-Muslim citizens with the unofficial aim to inflict financial ruin on them and end their prominence in the country's economy.

November 12, 1942 (Thursday)
The Naval Battle of Guadalcanal began.
The Koli Point action ended in American victory.
U.S. Congress approved the drafting of men 18 and 19 years old.
Eddie Rickenbacker and five others were rescued in the Pacific Ocean after being lost adrift at sea for three weeks. The men had stayed alive on a diet of a few oranges retrieved from their plane when it went down, some fish they'd managed to catch and a seagull that Rickenbacker had grabbed with his bare hands.
Guatemala broke off diplomatic relations with Vichy France.
German submarine U-272 sank off Hela after colliding with U-634.
German submarine U-660 was depth charged and damaged north of Oran by British warships and had to be scuttled.
German submarines U-360 and U-648 were commissioned.
Died: Laura Hope Crews, 62, American actress

November 13, 1942 (Friday)
Montgomery captured Tobruk, squeezing Rommel between two large advancing Allied forces.
The American light cruiser Juneau was sunk at the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal. 687 men were killed in action, including the five Sullivan brothers. The Americans also lost the cruiser Atlanta and the destroyers Barton, Cushing, Laffey and Monssen, while the Japanese lost the battleship Hiei and destroyers Akatsuki and Yūdachi.
German submarine U-411 was depth charged and sunk west of Gibraltar by a Lockheed Hudson of No. 500 Squadron RAF.
Brazil, El Salvador, Honduras and Panama broke off diplomatic relations with Vichy France.
Died: 
Daniel J. Callaghan, 52, United States Navy officer (killed in action during the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal)
Norman Scott, 53, United States Navy Rear Admiral (killed in action during the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal)

November 14, 1942 (Saturday)
Japanese heavy cruiser Kinugasa was sunk by aircraft during the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal.
Italian cargo liner Scillin was sunk by the British submarine Sahib while transporting over 800 Allied prisoners of war from North Africa to Italy, killing almost all of them. Britain kept the cause of the sinking a secret until 1996.
German submarines U-595 and U-605 were depth charged and sunk in the Mediterranean by British aircraft.
German submarines U-231 and U-733 were commissioned.

November 15, 1942 (Sunday)
The Naval Battle of Guadalcanal ended in a strategic American victory. On the battle's final day the Japanese battleship Kirishima and destroyer Ayanami were sunk by the American battleship USS Washington, while the Americans lost the destroyers Benham, Preston and Walke.
Church bells were rung throughout England in celebration of the Allied victory at El Alamein. It was the first time that church bells had sounded since 1940 when they were silenced during the threat of German invasion.
German submarine U-98 was depth charged and sunk southwest of Cape St. Vincent, Portugal by the British destroyer Wrestler.
German submarine U-259 was depth charged and sunk in the Mediterranean by a Lockheed Hudson of No. 500 Squadron RAF.
The American Liberty ship SS Robert E. Peary was commissioned just 4 days, 15 hours and 29 minutes after the keel was laid down.
Issue #1 of the Archie comic book was published (cover date Winter 1942). 
Born: Daniel Barenboim, pianist and conductor, in Buenos Aires, Argentina

November 16, 1942 (Monday)
Operation Torch ended in Allied victory.
The Kokoda Track campaign ended in Allied victory.
The Naval Battle of Casablanca ended in American victory.
The Battle of Buna–Gona began.
German submarine U-173 was depth charged and sunk off Casablanca by American warships.
German submarines U-192 and U-668 were commissioned.
Born: Joanna Pettet, actress, in London, England
Died: Joseph Schmidt, 38, Austro-Hungarian and Romanian Jewish tenor and actor

November 17, 1942 (Tuesday)
The British Eighth Army occupied Derna, Libya.
New Zealand broke off diplomatic relations with Vichy France.
German submarine U-331 surrendered after being crippled by depth charges from a Lockheed Hudson of No. 500 Squadron RAF north of Algiers. A Fairey Albacore torpedoed and sank the submarine, unaware that the crew had surrendered.
Born: 
Martin Scorsese, filmmaker, in Queens, New York
Bob Gaudio, singer, musician and record producer, in the Bronx, New York; 
Kang Kek Iew, Khmer Rouge leader and convicted war criminal, in Kampong Cham, French Indochina (d. 2020); 
István Rosztóczy, microbiologist, in Budapest, Hungary (d. 1993);