[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C.

In preparation for the 1987–88 season, the team appointed Nissim Bakhar as coach. During this season the team maintained a high defense capability and improved its offensive ability. The team finished third in the table and won the Lilian Cup for the third time since the tournament was established.

For the 1988–89 season, the team won 1–0 against Hapoel Tel Aviv in the Lilian Cup final. Later in the season, the team reached the final of the Toto Cup and won the Cup for the first time in its history after a victory over Maccabi Netanya. In the league, the team did not list, and in the 22nd round they broke up with coach Nissim Bakhar, when Shimon Shenhar came in for a second term as team coach. Be'er Sheva scored only 22 goals, 29 assists and finished fifth in the table.

The 1990s
In the 1989–90 season was the first season in which foreign players were allowed to participate in the Israeli league, and Be'er Sheva joined the Argentinian attackers Claudio Dykstra and Ricardo Cacchione. During the season, the team replaced four coaches, Shimon Shenhar, who finished in the fifth round, past players Haim Cohen and Alon Ben Dor, and Eliyahu Offer, who was appointed towards the end of the season in which the team finished ninth in the league.

In the 1990–91 season, the team qualified for the playoffs, finishing sixth in the table. In the 1991–92 season, the team received 43 duty rates, the highest number of duty rates since the 1969–70 season. On the other hand, the team also scored a great deal, ending the season with 40 goals, the highest number of goals since 1981–82, and finished the season in tenth place in the table.

In the 1992–93 season, Uri Malmilian and Hisham Zuabi joined the team. After five rounds Eliyahu Offer was fired and replaced by assistant coach Vico Haddad. Be'er Sheva showed a good offensive ability during the season, when Zuabi finished as deputy king of the league with 17 goals, and sets a record for conquering Be'er Sheva in the senior league. The entire team finished the season with 52 goals, the highest number of goals ever scored in one season in the top league, as well as their best ever goal difference in the top division, and fourth in the table.

In the 1993–94 season, the team again broke the record for the season in the Premier League and scored 54 goals, and returned their best goal difference in the Premier League. Amir Avigdor finished the season as the team's top scorer with 16 conquests, the team finished third and won the UEFA Cup for the first time in which Israeli teams participated.

In the 1994–95 season Vitaly Savchenko of Ukraine was appointed to coach the team. In the UEFA Cup, the team was defeated against Aris Thessaloniki from Greece, losing twice to the team and being eliminated from the team.

In the 1995–96 Liga Leumit season, Vico Haddad was again appointed to the team's training. In the first qualifying phase of the UEFA Cup, the team beat SK Tirana of Albania, and was then knocked out of the factory after a double encounter against FC Barcelona in which she lost 0–7 at home and 5–0 outside. Later in the season Haddad was fired and replaced by former coach Vitaly Savchenko, The team won the second time in their history in the Toto Cup, after beating Hapoel Kfar Saba in the final game, and the team showed poor ability to score, and Savchenko was replaced by Eli Guttman, who finished with 32 points and 10th in the table.

In the 1996–97 season, Guttman led the team to their first win in the State Cup, following a 1–0 victory over Maccabi Tel Aviv in the final game, from Giovanni Rosso goal. In the league, the team finished the season in third place, after missing the second place in the last round of the season, with 25 goals and the best goalscorer in their history in the top league.

In the summer of 1997, then-owner Eli Lahav decided to release many of the leading players in the team, including Giovanni Rosso, Sejad Halilović and Shai Holtzman, and then left the team and transferred ownership to Eli Zino. As a result, the team opened the 1997–98 season with a small staff. Due to the lack of players, the team brought youth player Yossi Benayoun to the senior team at the age of 17, and coach appointed Benny Tabak. In the first qualifying phase of the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, the team FK Žalgiris from Lithuania, and was then knocked out of the factory by Roda JC from Netherlands, who lost 4–1 at home and 10–0 away. After the defeat Tabak resigned, replacing Jackie Dekel again. Yossi Benayoun scored 15 goals this season, including a dramatic goal in a 1–0 win over Maccabi Haifa in the final round, but due to her opponent's victory in the Bnei Yehuda Tel Aviv team, the team dropped to the second division after 27 consecutive years in the Liga Leumit. The number of high duty rates in its history in one season in the Liga Leumit.