[Source: PubMed]

48. Ulus Travma Acil Cerrahi Derg. 2020 Jan;26(1):67-73. doi: 
10.14744/tjtes.2019.96821.

The characteristics of the patients in mass public shootings among coup attempt 
in Turkey: A single-center hospital response.

[Article in English]

Açıksarı K(1), Koçak M(2), Solakoğlu GA(3), Turan Ö(4), Erinç S(5), Ekinci Ö(6), 
Aydın E(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, İstanbul Medeniyet University Faculty of 
Medicine, İstanbul-Turkey.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Health Science University, Fatih Sultan 
Mehmet Training and Research Hospital, İstanbul-Turkey.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Göztepe Training and Research Hospital, 
İstanbul-Turkey.
(4)Department of Forensic Medicine, İstanbul Medeniyet University Faculty of 
Medicine, İstanbul-Turkey.
(5)Department Orthopedics, Health Science University, Şişli Etfal Training and 
Research Hospital, İstanbul-Turkey.
(6)Department of General Surgery, İstanbul Medeniyet University Faculty of 
Medicine, İstanbul-Turkey.
(7)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, İstanbul Medeniyet University Faculty 
of Medicine, İstanbul-Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Turkey is an experienced country for both military and civilian mass 
casualties that arise from explosions and shootings by various terrorist groups. 
In this study, we aimed to investigate the characteristics of patient flow 
admitted to our hospital caused by primarily gunshot wounds during the coup 
attempts on the 15th of July.
METHODS: This descriptive, retrospective study included a total of 50 patients 
who were injured during a coup attempt on the date of July 15, 2016, and 
admitted to our emergency department (ED). Demographic characteristics, 
anatomical injury sites, postoperative clinical outcomes, and hospitalization 
settings were recorded. The Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), Trauma and Injury Severity 
Score (TRISS), Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS), Revised Trauma Score (RTS) and 
Injury Severity Score (ISS) were used to measure the severity of injuries.
RESULTS: A total of 63 medical personnel voluntarily reached the ED within two 
hours. Extremity injuries were the most common injuries. The mean RTS, GCS, and 
TRISS scores did not differ significantly between the patients discharged from 
the ED and the patients who were hospitalized (p>0.05). However, there was a 
statistically significant difference in the ISS scores (p<0.001, independent 
t-test). There was no statistically significant difference in the GCS and RTS 
scores between the discharged and hospitalized patients, although the ISS scores 
were higher in hospitalized patients (p>0.05 and p<0.001, respectively). A total 
of 33 patients (66%) were admitted to the hospital for follow-up and/or surgical 
intervention. Five (10%) of the patients were hospitalized for more than 14 
days.
CONCLUSION: The management of each disaster is unique. Armed conflicts result in 
gunshot wounds, and preparations must be focused on surge capacity and a 
prolonged hospital stay of the patients. In our study, the length of stay in the 
hospital decreased after the arrival of volunteer staff to the ED, but we should 
note that the ISS increased. Hospital disaster plans should be reorganized not 
only for ED but also for the whole hospital.

DOI: 10.14744/tjtes.2019.96821
PMID: 31942749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]