[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richard Guarasci

ticipants.

Building the endowment and the campus 
When Richard Guarasci first joined the Wagner College community, in 1997, the college's endowment was valued at $4 million. In January 2018, when Guarasci announced his plan to retire the following year, the endowment's value stood at $98.7 million.

During Guarasci's tenure as president, one new building was dedicated, and another was given a major refurbishment. Foundation Hall, the first new residence facility opened on the Wagner College campus since Harbor View Hall in 1969, welcomed its first residents in January 2010. Built at a cost of $24 million, it accommodates 200 students. And in October 2012, the college re-opened Main Hall after an 18-month, $15 million external restoration project. The collegiate gothic building, dedicated in 1930, is considered the architectural signature of the college.

Longest-serving Wagner College president 
At its October 2016 meeting, Wagner College's Board of Trustees recognized Richard Guarasci for his superior record of longevity as the institution's president. On July 1 of that year, Guarasci had become the longest-serving president in the college's history, having surpassed the previous record held by President Arthur Ole Davidson (14 standard 365-day years, 31 days, and 3 “leap days”). Davidson retired in 1975.

Leadership in higher education 
Chairman, Association of American Colleges and Universities board of directors 

Chairman and secretary of the board, Campus Compact 

President emeritus, Coalition of Urban and Metropolitan Universities 

Former chairman, New American Colleges & Universities 

Former chairman, New York State Higher Education Services Corporation 

In 2012, Richard Guarasci was one of 11 members of the National Task Force on Civic Learning and Democratic Engagement that produced a report, “A Crucible Moment: College Learning & Democracy’s Future,” published by the Association of American Colleges and Universities.

Select publications

Books 
“Democratic Education in the Age of Difference: Redefining Citizenship in Higher Education,” co-authored with Grant H. Cornwell and others (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 1997) 

"Neighborhood Democracy: Building Anchor Partnerships Between Colleges & Their Communities" (Sterling, VA: Stylus Pub, 2022)

Book chapter 
“Renewing the Civic Purpose of Liberal Education,” co-authored with Barry N. Checkoway and Peter L. Levine, in the book, “Transforming Undergraduate Education: Theory that Compels and Practices that Succeed,” edited by Donald W. Harward (Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield, 2011)

Articles 
“Developing the Democratic Arts,” in About Campus magazine (Feb. 2001), published by ACPA—College Student Educators International and Jossey-Bass

“On the Challenge of Becoming the Good College,” in Liberal Education magazine (Winter 2006, Vol. 92 No. 1), published by the Association of American Colleges and Universities

“Sustaining Transformation, Resiliency in Hard Times,” co-authored with Wagner College Provost Devorah Lieberman, in Change: The Magazine of Higher Education (Nov.-Dec. 2009), published by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching

“Anchoring Democracy: The Civic Imperative for Higher Education,” in Liberal Education magazine (Winter 2018, Vol. 104 No. 1) ), published by the Association of American Colleges and Universities

References

Living people
American political scientists
Fordham University alumni
Wagner College people
1946 births