[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ella Baker Center for Human Rights

force opportunities in the burgeoning green economy, creating dignified jobs for low-income families. It is working to "build a green economy that is strong enough to lift people out of poverty" through policy advocacy, public outreach, and an employment pipeline called the Oakland Green Jobs Corps.

Ella Baker Center unveiled this campaign, first known as "Reclaim the Future" at the United Nations World Environmental Day Conference in 2005. Carla Perez, an organizer at fellow Bay Area non-profit Communities for a Better Environment, states, "Ella Baker Center really opened up the door for the whole local environmental justice movement to come together and reach a wider audience through this event." As billions go into eco-friendly construction, clean technology, urban agriculture and renewable energy, Green-Collar Jobs Campaign works to ensure that low-income people will be able to take part in these new opportunities.

The initiative works to turn investment into “green-collar” job opportunities in Oakland. As the lack of meaningful work opportunities for at-risk youth and formerly incarcerated people in society becomes a bigger problem, Green-Collar Jobs Campaign catalyzes workforce opportunities in the burgeoning “green” economy, creating dignified jobs for low-income families.

The Green-Collar Jobs Campaign works to:

Recruit participants and provide them with ongoing support.
Teach participants “soft” skills: general life skills necessary to be successful in any work environment.
Teach participants "hard" skills: specific required to work on new energy projects as a member of the Oakland Green Corps.
Provide participants with employment experience for a limited time on City-funded renewable energy and efficiency projects.
Support participants in transitioning from the Oakland Green Jobs Corps into independent employment.

In 2008, the Oakland City Council voted to financially support the Oakland Green Jobs Corps in the amount of $250,000. This money will provide "a vital pool of seed funding" to attract matching donations over the long-term. A portion of these funds will create special paid internships for Green Jobs Corps graduates in renewable energy and energy efficiency.

Heal the Streets
Heal the Streets is a new ten-month fellowship program that trains Oakland teens (ages 15 – 18) to develop and advocate for policies that bring peace and hope to their city's streets.

The Heal the Streets Fellowship program aims to:

Give fellows experience working on the front lines of public policy reform.
Help fellows gain research and leadership skills.
Engage fellows in organizing community events and collaborating with major community organizations.

In 2009, the first year of the fellowship, Heal the Streets fellows identified teen joblessness as a major contributor to violence in their community and made policy recommendations on the issue to local city and school board officials.

See also

List of human rights organisations

References

External links
Official site
, a short film co-produced in 2000 by The Ella Baker Center, New York City PoliceWatch, and WITNESS about the shooting of Amadou Diallo

Civil liberties advocacy groups in the United States
Organizations established in 1996
Civil rights organizations in the United States
Government watchdog groups in the United States
Non-profit organizations based in California
Organizations based in Oakland, California
Criminal justice reform in the United States