[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Greece–Serbia relations

sharing NATO military plans with the Greek authorities.

In August 2008, a group of lawyers from Chania, Crete, Greece, visited ICTY Indictee Radovan Karadžić and offered their services for free and have asked international organizations to ensure a just trial for the former Bosnian Serb President.

Srebrenica
According to Agence France Presse (AFP), a dozen Greek volunteers fought alongside the Serbs at Srebrenica. They were members of the Greek Volunteer Guard (ΕΕΦ), or GVG, a contingent of Greek paramilitaries formed at the request of Ratko Mladić as an integral part of the Drina Corps. Some had links with the Greek neo-Nazi organisation Golden Dawn, others were mercenaries. The Greek volunteers were motivated by the desire to support their "Orthodox brothers" in battle. They raised the Greek flag at Srebrenica after the fall of the town at Mladić's request, to honour "the brave Greeks fighting on our side." Radovan Karadžić subsequently decorated four of them."

In 2005 Greek deputy Andreas Andrianopoulos called for an investigation of the Greek volunteers' role at Srebrenica where the Srebrenica Massacre was carried out. The Greek Minister of Justice Anastasios Papaligouras commissioned an inquiry, which had still not reported as of July 2010.

NATO bombing of FR Yugoslavia
NATO bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia caused a strong popular reaction in Greece, Prime Minister Costas Simitis sought a political solution to the Kosovo conflict. Greece refused to participate in the strikes against FR Yugoslavia.

Several polls were conducted, one of which revealed that 99.5% of the Greek population were completely opposed to the bombing, with 85% believing NATO's motives were strategic and not humanitarian. Another revealed that 94% of Greek people opposed NATO and the war against Yugoslavia. 69% wanted U.S. President Bill Clinton tried for war crimes, while 52% opposed the admittance of Kosovo Albanian refugees to Greece.

20 prominent Greek judges of the supreme court (Council of State) signed a declaration, where they declared NATO guilty of war crimes. The more dramatic event was a People's Tribunal of over a 10.000 people in Athens, Greece, where the Greek Supreme Court declared President Clinton and NATO leaders guilty of war crimes.

During a C-SPAN discussion in 2005 with General Wesley Allen Clark, the commander of NATO during the Kosovo War and NATO bombings, it was reported that several Greek non-governmental organizations were sending relief supplies in the middle of the bombings, which caused the bombing of certain targets more difficult, the intention of the organizations was to forestall the military action by sending humanitarian aid to the Kosovo Serb enclaves.

Other factors

Greeks in Serbia

According to the 2002 census, there were 572 Serbian citizens of Greek ethnicity. Greek community associations in Serbia estimate a total of 4,500 Serbian citizens of Greek ethnic descent. The Greek Foreign Ministry asserts that marriages between Serbs and Greeks living in Serbia are quite common, and that this is both a cause and result of the close bonds shared by many Greeks and Serbs. In February 2008, the Greek minority living in Serbia turned to Greece to not recognize the unilateral secession in Kosovo by the Kosovo Albanians. They stated that the independence of Kosovo would endanger the stability in the Balkans and weaken the traditional Serbian-Greek relations.

Serbs in Greece

According to the 2001 census, 5,200 people Serbian-born people have Greek citizenship. It is estimated that more than 15,000 Serbs live in Greece. Prominent sportspeople with Greek citizenship include Peja Stojaković and Vlantimir Giankovits.

Humanitarianism
Following the outbreak of war in the Balkans, Serbs received tremendous humanitarian aid from Greece and Cyprus, as well as the Churches of Greece and Cyprus, beginning in the early 1990s.  This aid came from all sectors of Greek society: from the state, from the Church, from various organizations, and from the public.  The majority of the aid focused on helping Serbs from the Republika Srpska, the Republic of Serb Krajina, and Serbia proper who had suffered as a result of the wars that ravaged those areas.

Aid to Serbia
In late July 1995, it was announced that the Greek-Serbian Friendship Society would be distributing humanitarian aid in the form of rice to Serbia by mid-August.  According to the president of the organization, Panayiotis Mihalakakos, the total cost of the project exceeded 5 million drachmas and the Piraeus Port Authority had co-sponsored the initiative and provided necessary packaging and transportation of the cargo.