[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Qissa Khwani massacre

reated numerous instances of unrest throughout British India. This resulted in King George VI (Emperor of India) launching a legal investigation into this matter. The British Commission brought the case forward to Chief Justice Naimatullah Chaudhry, a distinguished Judge of the Lucknow protectorate.

King George VI subsequently knighted Naimatullah Chaudhry. Naimatullah personally surveyed the area of massacre and published a 200-page report criticizing the actions of the British Indian Army.

Olaf Caroe, then secretary to the Chief Commissioner, gave the following report of the event ('Public and Judicial Department. Civil Disobedience Campaign in NWFP. Response to Patel allegations'. British Library reference number L/PJ/6/2007):

″I received a note on 23rd April evening from Sir Norman Bolton asking me to do what I could to arrange for the burial of as many of the casualties as possible during the night, in order to avoid the danger of a fresh riot occurring over the funeral procession. I spoke to R.S. Mehr Chand Khanna and asked him to bring me some of the leading Khilafists at the Municipal Library. He brought M. Abdurrab Nishtar; M. Ataullah Jan, Municipal Commissioner; M. Aurangzeb Khan, Vakil; Qazi Mohd Aslam, Vakil.

I informed these persons what was required and asked for their co-operation as peace-loving citizens and good Muslims. They agreed to do what they could and asked me to arrange for lorries, saying they would persuade the relatives to agree. I arranged for lorries through Shahji – one of C.C.’s orderlies – who is I believe a Peshawari and a Syed. During the night in this way we sent away seven or eight bodies in lorries. Some of them had no relatives and arrangements were made to pay for a mullah and to carry through the obsequies with all regard to religious rites. The next day Qazi Mohd Aslam came to see me and said that he was making himself unpopular by assisting in the matter. He gave me to understand that he could do no more. I fancy that the association of these four men with the action taken will put an end to any attempt to make capital of the incident.″

See also
Babrra massacre
Kharqamar incident
Takkar massacre
Spin Tangi massacre

References

Further reading 
 Indian National Congress Peshawar Enquiry Committee. Working Committee of the Indian National Congress. Bombay: Government Press (1930)

Popalzai, Dr Abdul Jalil (24 April 2004). The KhyberWatch. Last accessed 26 February 2008

1930 protests
Massacres in 1930
Indian independence movement
Pakistan Movement
Conflicts in 1930
History of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Massacres in British India
Massacres in Pakistan
Massacres committed by the United Kingdom
History of Peshawar
Political repression in British India
Protest-related deaths
1930 in India
1930 in British India
April 1930 events
Mass murder in 1930
1930 murders in India