[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of the transitional federal government of Somalia

ent, while the closest contender, erstwhile Somali ambassador to Washington Abdullahi Ahmed Addou, got 79 votes in the third round of voting. The then incumbent President of Somalia, Abdiqasim Salad Hassan, peacefully withdrew his candidature. Ahmed was sworn in a few days later on October 14, 2004.

Transitional federal government formed
After his election, Yusuf formed the first council of ministers by appointing cabinet officials in November 2004. One of his key appointments was Ali Mohammed Ghedi as prime minister.

2006

Parliament held in Baidoa
On February 26, 2006 the parliament first met inside Somalia, in the city of Baidoa, 260 kilometers northwest of Mogadishu. 210 lawmakers of the 275-member parliament met in a grain warehouse temporarily converted into a meeting hall. For this reason the Transitional Federal Government was sometimes referred to as the "Baidoa Government."

Firings
In June 2006, Ghedi sacked four ministers, part of the CIA-backed Alliance for the Restoration of Peace and Counter-Terrorism, who ignored his orders to stop fighting the Supreme Islamic Courts Council in the Second Battle of Mogadishu. They were:
 National security minister Mohamed Afrah Qanyare
 Commerce minister Musa Sudi Yalahow
 Militia rehabilitation minister Issa Botan Alin and
 Religious affairs minister Omar Muhamoud Finnish

Resignations
Following the success of the Supreme Islamic Courts Council in taking Mogadishu, and the alleged entry of Ethiopian troops into Somalia, members of the transitional government started to resign. Before the resignations started, the government consisted of 42 full ministers and a further 60 assistant ministers. The government would have to resign if more than 50% – 22 – of the full ministers resigned.

On 27 July 2006 18 members resigned including the public works minister Osman Ali Atto, who said "Our government failed to implement national reconciliation, so we have decided to resign."

Ghedi survived a no-confidence vote on July 30 when his opponents failed to obtain the two-thirds majority required to dismiss him.

On August 1 eight more ministers resigned in protest at prime minister Ali Mohammed Ghedi's postponement of talks with the Islamic Court.  Fisheries Minister Hassan Abshir Farah said "We had no option but to resign because we believe if the talks are postponed again it will affect the reconciliation efforts"

By August 2, twenty-nine ministers had resigned including eleven full ministers.

By August 3 the tally had reached 36, including former prime minister and health minister Muhammad Abdi Yusuf, who complained that "Our government is a reconciliation government, the prime minister has failed to honor that"

By August 4, forty cabinet members and 16 full ministers had quit, including reconstruction minister Barre Shire Adan who said "I have resigned because the government of Ali Mohammed Ghedi has failed to deliver"

On Monday August 7 the three top TFG leaders – Prime Minister Ghedi, President Ahmed and parliamentary speaker Sharif Hassan Sheikh Aden reportedly reached an agreement on talks with the Islamic Militia and the formation of a new government. The President announced the dissolution of the present cabinet and Ghedi was asked to propose a new cabinet, with only 31 full ministers, within a week.

New cabinet
On August 21 Prime Minister Gedi appointed a new reduced cabinet of 31 ministers. It included new Ministers for national security, defence, finance and foreign-affairs but retained former warlord Hussein Mohamed Aidid as Interior Minister. 44 deputy ministers will also be appointed in the coming days. The Assembly was due to vote on approving the cabinet on 2006-08-26 but this vote was delayed amid fears that the new government wouldn't be approved.

Rise of the ICU, Ethiopian intervention

The government faced off against the ICU between June and December 2006, as the Islamists spread out from Mogadishu. Troops from Ethiopia protected the government position in Baidoa. Ethiopia claimed until recently the troops only numbered in the hundreds, comprising trainers and advisors for the federal government's army. The opposition Islamic Courts Union (ICU) claimed they numberered in the tens of thousands.

On December 15, 2006, sixty government members, including Member of Parliament Omar Hashii, gathered in Mogadishu to protest the presence of the foreign troops.

Late in December, the government won a series of victories at the battles of Baidoa, Bandiradley, Beledweyne, Jowhar and Jilib. At the end of the year the TFG took possession of Mogadishu and on New Year's Day, 2007, Kismayo.

2007

New administrator for Hiiran
On January 1, 2007, Somali President Ahmed declared a new administrator for Hiiran region, replacing Dabageed. Hussein Mohamud Moalim was named as new administrator, and Saleyman Ahmed Hilawle was nominated as assistant administrator.

Disarmament