[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# International Academy of Astronautics

The International Academy of Astronautics (IAA) is an independent Paris-based non-governmental organization that was founded in Stockholm (Sweden) on August 16, 1960, by Dr. Theodore von Kármán. It received recognition from the United Nations in 1996.

Since its founding in 1960, the IAA has regularly convened experts in the field of astronautics for the following stated purposes:

 Recognize the accomplishments of their peers
 Explore and discuss cutting-edge issues in space research and technology
 Provide direction and guidance in the non-military uses of space and the ongoing exploration of the solar system

Among the activities the academy is involved, there are:

 Encourages international scientific cooperation through conferences, of which it conducts 30 a year, symposia and meetings in the areas of space sciences, space life sciences, space technology & system development, space systems operations & utilization, space policy, law & economy, space & society, culture & education
 Publishes cosmic studies dealing with a wide variety of topics including space exploration, space debris, small satellites, space traffic management, natural disasters, climate change, etc.
 Publishes the journal of the International Academy of Astronautics, Acta Astronautica.
 Publishes dictionaries available in 24 languages
 Offers book series  on subjects such as small satellites, conference proceedings, remote sensing, and history.

IAA Mission 
According to the Academy's mission statement, the fundamental purposes of the IAA, are to:

 Foster the development of astronautics for peaceful purposes
 Recognize individuals who have distinguished themselves in a branch of science or technology related to astronautics
 Provide a program through which the membership can contribute to international endeavors
 Promote international cooperation in the advancement of aerospace science.

Cooperation with International Organizations 
The IAA has established cooperation with: Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (since 1985), Austrian Academy of Sciences (since 1986), French Academy of Sciences (since 1988), English Royal Society (since 1988), Academy of Finland (since 1988), Indian Academy of Sciences (since 1990), Royal Spanish Academy of Sciences (since 1989), German Academy of Sciences (since 1990), Kingdom of Netherlands (since 1990), Academies of Arts, Humanities & Sciences of Canada also known as Royal Society of Canada (since 1991), U.S. National Academy of Sciences (since 1992), U.S. National Academy of Engineering (since 1992), Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities (since 1994), Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters (since 1995), Chinese Academy of Sciences (since 1996), Royal Academy of Sciences of Turin (since 1997), Australian Academy of Science (since 1998), Australian Academy of Technological Science and Engineering (since 1998), Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (since 1999), Brazilian Academy of Sciences (since 2000), U.S. Institute of Medicine (since 2002), Academy of Sciences of Ukraine (since 2010), Academy of Sciences of South Africa (since 2011), Royal Society of South Africa (since 2011) and Pontifical Academy of Sciences (since 2012).

IAA presidents 
The Academy's first president was Theodore von Kármán. Edward C. Stone held the post of President of the International Academy of Astronautics until October 2009. G. Madhavan Nair, the chairman of the Indian Space Research Organization, was president of the International Academy of Astronautics from August 2009 until 2015. He was the only Indian and the first non-American to head the IAA.

Journal

The IAA sponsors the monthly journal Acta Astronautica, published by Elsevier Press, which "covers developments in space science technology in relation to peaceful scientific exploration of space and its exploitation for human welfare and progress, the conception, design, development and operation of space-borne and Earth-based systems". In collaboration with the International Astronautical Federation (IAF) the IAA launched a review journal, REACH-Reviews in Human Space Exploration, in 2016 that focuses on aspects of human space exploration.

References

External links

IAA Acta Astronautica Journal

Space advocacy organizations
Organizations based in Stockholm
International academies