[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Health (film)

ltH, but also the ongoing election; he even plans to rig the votes and the outcome.  She runs back to tell Wolff on Cody's scheme.  As the couple start making love, Burbank is worried that it will be all over for her if Garnell wins.  Harry, however, assures her that Garnell is still a woman anyway.

On the fourth and final day, the results of the HealtH election are announced live on Cavett's show, and Esther Brill comes out as the victor.  Burbank and her ex-husband watch on from their balcony outside, and also take a glimpse at Cody proposing an offer to Brill.  Some time later, Cody, who turns out to be her harmless nut brother, gets into a fit of anger, knocking down everything in his path, and demands to get away immediately.

With the HealtH convention over, another one involving hypnotists is taking root at the hotel.  Before he and the candidates leave, Cavett briefly greets Dinah Shore, the host on hand for this event.  As the HealtH sign is taken down in front of the hotel, the Steinettes perform a Broadway-style show tune that closes the film.

Cast

Production

Under the supervision of Alan Ladd, Jr., head of 20th Century-Fox, director Robert Altman made HealtH for US$6 million through his Lion's Gate Films company (unrelated to the present-day firm based in Vancouver).  At the time, Altman had commitments to deliver films for Fox until 1981; HealtH was his fifteenth feature project.  "[Alan] had great faith in me," he told David Sterritt in 2000; "he put his own job on the line."  Of the film's timing, he said, "HealtH could have only been made when it was made, and that was the end of the Carter era."  This and 1979's Quintet were Altman's first collaborations with writer Frank Barhydt; the two would later work on the 1988 HBO miniseries Tanner '88, as well as 1993's Short Cuts and 1996's Kansas City.

In response to the diminishing box office returns of his last three efforts (A Wedding, Quintet and A Perfect Couple), and in case any delays could put a damper on his financing, Altman rushed HealtH into production.  The film was shot in sequence at only one location: the Don CeSar Beach Hotel in St Pete Beach, Florida.  Production began on February 20, 1979, and continued for three months.  The crew chose the Don CeSar, said Altman, because "we felt [this] would be fun, with lots of crazy situations and off-beat characters."  Joseph Byrd worked on the music score,  along with supervisor Allan Nicholls.

To capture the authenticity of the convention in the movie, art director Bob Quinn and co-writer Frank Barhydt visited an actual one in Boston, Massachusetts before shooting.  Over one hundred health food companies contributed to the set.  One of them, Sovex Granola, participated during the shoot; their scenes did not make it into the finished film, but they received end-credit billing.

Robert Altman was known to wear different hats on every new production of his; on the set of HealtH, he wore a straw one.  While filming, Altman got into a conflict with members of the local Teamsters branch, and had to pay "outrageous salaries" for certification.

Garner recalled "we had a lot of fun making it... I loved Bob Altman."

A short while after HealtH finished production, producer Robert Evans hired Altman for a musical version of Popeye, co-produced by Paramount Pictures and Walt Disney Productions.  Altman went to Malta to shoot the film, and brought the Steinettes from HealtH along with him.

Release

Distributor 20th Century-Fox originally planned HealtH for a Christmas 1979 release.  But by the time editing was complete, a change of management took place at the studio, and Alan Ladd, Jr. was among those to leave; as a result, Fox shelved the film.  After canceling plans for a March debut in January 1980, they moved it to their summer schedule; Altman's strategy was to have the film released in time for that year's presidential campaign.

Before that could take place, the company's new president, Norman B. Levy, planned an April 1980 run in St. Louis, Missouri.  Altman went against it and suggested test runs in four markets instead: San Francisco and Sacramento, California; Houston, Texas; and Boston, Massachusetts.  The resulting previews played to poor audience response, and some time later, Fox deemed it uncommercial for release.  In the end, the company replaced it on their schedule with Oh! Heavenly Dog, a crime comedy starring Chevy Chase and Benji the dog.

Save for Sherry Lansing, who loved the film, Robert Altman had a fallout with Fox personnel over their handling of HealtH.  After filming Popeye, Altman tried to contact Norman Levy on its status.  The filmmaker complained, "[Levy] didn't return my phone calls for seven weeks. That's just basic rudeness. I don't think he knows what a movie is anyway."  Moreover, he said of the studio's distribution unit: "Norman Levy and the rest are scum. [...] They're not interested in movies. They're interested in ski lifts and Coca-Cola."