[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Petter Andersson

captained the side during the season.

In 2014–15, Midtjylland won the Danish top tier for the first time in the club's history with Andersson being a key player. He featured in 23 league games, scoring four goals, as Midtjylland secured the title after a draw against FC Vestsjælland on 21 May 2015.

In the beginning of the 2015–16 season, Midtjylland subsequently took part in the UEFA Europa League qualification rounds. In the play-off round, Midtjylland surprisingly knocked out the English Premier League-side Southampton with 2–1 on aggregate. Andersson played both legs in August 2015 and Claus Steinlein, the club's director of football, named his performances as the best in the team.

Andersson's season would however end soon after, since he was forced to perform surgery on his knees. He managed to appear in four domestic games in the beginning of the season, and played his last minutes of football for Midtjylland on 17 September 2015 against Legia Warsaw in the group stage of the Europa League. Andersson got subbed off at half time, as Midtjylland secured a 1–0 win. On 9 April 2016, Midtjylland confirmed that Andersson was going to leave the club at the expiration of his contract the upcoming summer.

Return to Hammarby IF and retirement
On 16 July 2016, Hammarby IF announced that Petter Andersson had signed a two and a half-year contract with the club. As Andersson still was rehabilitating his injuries, Hammarby's director of football Mats Jingblad told that he would be fully fit in early 2017.

In late 2016, he however chose to retire from football due to major setbacks in his rehabilitation. Andersson did not make a single appearance for Hammarby during this second stint at the club.

International career
Andersson won 14 caps for the Swedish U17s between 2001 and 2002, scoring four goals. In 2003, he excelled at international level and scored six goals in eight appearances for the Swedish U19s. He also played 20 games for the Swedish U21s between 2004 and 2006.

He debuted for the Sweden national team on 22 January 2005, coming on as a substitute for George Mourad in the 72nd minute in a friendly game against South Korea. He won his second and last cap four days later, in a friendly game against Mexico, where he replaced Niclas Alexandersson in the 82nd minute.

Style of play
Andersson's natural position was as an offensive midfielder or second striker. Occasionally, he was also used as a forward or winger.

Among his strengths on the pitch were his play intelligence and powerful shot. He also had a great pace, both with and without the ball at his feet.

Andersson's playing style was sometimes described as irrational and dynamic. Tommy Söderberg, former manager of the Swedish national team, compared him with Freddie Ljungberg and praised his technique.

Personal
He was nicknamed "Ljusvattnets Henry" during his playing career, as a homage to his birth village and the French striker Thierry Henry.

Career statistics

Honours
Midtjylland
 Danish Superliga: 2014–15

References

External links

1985 births
Living people
Swedish men's footballers
Sweden men's youth international footballers
Sweden men's under-21 international footballers
Sweden men's international footballers
Swedish expatriate men's footballers
Hammarby Fotboll players
FC Groningen players
FC Midtjylland players
Allsvenskan players
Division 2 (Swedish football) players
Division 3 (Swedish football) players
Eredivisie players
Danish Superliga players
Expatriate men's footballers in the Netherlands
Swedish expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands
Expatriate men's footballers in Denmark
People from Skellefteå Municipality
Skellefteå FF players
Sunnanå SK (men) players
Men's association football midfielders
Sportspeople from Västerbotten County