[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Alexander the Great

rius was depicted as Egypt's salvation, "proving" Egypt was still ruled by an Egyptian.

According to Josephus, Alexander was shown the Book of Daniel when he entered Jerusalem, which described a mighty Greek king who would conquer the Persian Empire. This is cited as a reason for sparing Jerusalem.

In Hindi and Urdu, the name "Sikandar", derived from the Persian name for Alexander, denotes a rising young talent, and the Delhi Sultanate ruler Aladdin Khalji stylized himself as "Sikandar-i-Sani" (the Second Alexander the Great). In medieval India, Turkic and Afghan sovereigns from the Iranian-cultured region of Central Asia brought positive cultural connotations of Alexander to the Indian subcontinent, resulting in the efflorescence of Sikandernameh (Alexander Romances) written by Indo-Persian poets such as Amir Khusrow and the prominence of Alexander the Great as a popular subject in Mughal-era Persian miniatures. In medieval Europe, Alexander the Great was revered as a member of the Nine Worthies, a group of heroes whose lives were believed to encapsulate all the ideal qualities of chivalry. During the first Italian campaign of the French Revolutionary Wars, in a question from Bourrienne, asking whether he gave his preference to Alexander or Caesar, Napoleon said that he places Alexander The Great in the first rank, the main reason being his campaign on Asia.

In the Greek Anthology, there are poems referring to Alexander.

Throughout time, art objects related to Alexander were being created. In addition to speech works, sculptures and paintings, in modern times Alexander is still the subject of musical and cinematic works. The song 'Alexander the Great' by the British heavy metal band Iron Maiden is indicative. Some films that have been shot with the theme of Alexander are:
 Sikandar (1941), an Indian production directed by Sohrab Modi about the conquest of India by Alexander
 Alexander the Great (1956), produced by MGM and starring Richard Burton
 Sikandar-e-Azam (1965), an Indian production directed by Kedar Kapoor
 Alexander (2004), directed by Oliver Stone, starring Colin Farrell

There are also many references to other movies and TV series.

Newer novels about Alexander are:

The trilogy "Alexander the Great" by Valerio Massimo Manfredi consisting of "The son of the dream", "The sand of Amon", and "The ends of the world".
The trilogy of Mary Renault consisting of "Fire from Heaven", "The Persian Boy" and "Funeral Games".
 The Virtues of War, about Alexander the Great (2004),  and "* The Afghan Campaign, about Alexander the Great's conquests in Afghanistan (2006), " by Steven Pressfield.

Irish playwright Aubrey Thomas de Vere wrote Alexander the Great, a Dramatic Poem.

Historiography

Apart from a few inscriptions and fragments, texts written by people who actually knew Alexander or who gathered information from men who served with Alexander were all lost. Contemporaries who wrote accounts of his life included Alexander's campaign historian Callisthenes; Alexander's generals Ptolemy and Nearchus; Aristobulus, a junior officer on the campaigns; and Onesicritus, Alexander's chief helmsman. Their works are lost, but later works based on these original sources have survived. The earliest of these is Diodorus Siculus (1st century BC), followed by Quintus Curtius Rufus (mid-to-late 1st century AD), Arrian (1st to 2nd century AD), the biographer Plutarch (1st to 2nd century AD), and finally Justin, whose work dated as late as the 4th century. Of these, Arrian is generally considered the most reliable, given that he used Ptolemy and Aristobulus as his sources, closely followed by Diodorus.

See also

 Ancient Macedonian army
 Military tactics of Alexander the Great
 Bucephalus
 Chronology of European exploration of Asia
 Theories about Alexander the Great in the Quran
 Ptolemaic cult of Alexander the Great
 Gates of Alexander
 List of biblical figures identified in extra-biblical sources
 List of people known as The Great

References

Notes

Citations

Sources

Primary sources
 
 
 
 
 
 .

Secondary sources

Further reading

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 , also (1974) New York: E. P. Dutton and (1986) London: Penguin Books.

External links 

 
  Part 1, Part 2, Part 3, Part 4, Part 5, Part 6.
 
 Alexander the Great: An annotated list of primary sources. Livius. Archived from the original on 4 December 2016. Retrieved 26 March 2020.
 
 
 In Our Time: "Alexander the Great"—BBC discussion with Paul Cartledge, Diana Spencer and Rachel Mairs hosted by Melvyn Bragg, first broadcast 1 October 2015.
 Alexander the Great by Kireet Joshi

 
356 BC births
323 BC deaths
4th-century BC Macedonian monarchs
4th-century BC Pharaohs
Ancient Macedonian generals
Ancient Pellaeans
Argead kings of Macedonia
City founders
Deified Greek people
Deified monarchs
Hellenistic-era people
Kayanians
Monarchs of Persia
People in the deuterocanonical books
Pharaohs of the Argead dynasty
Shahnameh characters
Temple of Artemis