[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 25]
# History of Cumbria

mitting multiple tenancies, allowed them to muster forces, (commanded by local gentry in times of war or against the reivers). But the financial consequences meant imposing harsh rents to pay for the system, and this caused resentment among the tenants, helping to weaken the authority of the barons.

The Tudor regime had inherited Richard III's northern estates, and Elizabeth also put in place her own local gentry whenever the opportunity arose (such as the attainder of Francis Dacre in 1589, which put most of the Dacre lands in Cumbria into Crown hands until 1601 when the major baronies were purchased by the Howard family). Elizabeth became "the dominant landowner on the Cumbrian border."

Stuart and Interregnum Cumbria, 1603–1714

Early industry

Georgian and Victorian periods, 1714–1901

Heavy industry
 Barrow Hematite Steel Company
 Vickers Shipbuilding Engineering Limited
 Seaton Iron Works

The making of the "Lake District": early travellers, the Picturesque, artists, early tourism and conservation, 1750–1900
To many people, Cumbria is the "Lake District". "To many or most non-Cumbrians, it is the Lake District that defines the region of Cumbria, and the two units are often regarded, reductively, as synonymous." Some argue that the notion of Cumbria as a "region" is itself open to challenge, others say that the area (Cumberland, Westmorland and Lancashire north of the Sands) had a "perceived unity" that "long predated the arrival of tourists to visit the Lakes." Some writers, such as W. G. Collingwood (in 1902) and the poet Norman Nicholson (in 1969), attempted to bring together the two aspects of the Lakes and Cumbria in their writings. Nicholson, born and living in Millom, argued, in his book Greater Lakeland, that the Lake District area depended on the outlying towns and districts such as Carlisle and the Solway Plain, the West Cumbrian industrial towns, and, in particular, the small towns that fringe the lake and mountain core such as Cockermouth, Penrith, Kendal, Barrow and so on. Indeed, he said, somewhat pointedly, that "forget all this, and what all the rest of the country calls "Lakeland" will turn moribund, dying slowly from the edges inwards to become in the end little more than a beautiful, embalmed corpse in a rotting coffin."

Early travellers
Many of the people who travelled around and commented on the Lake District were people who did not live in the area. Their attitude to the Lakes was therefore coloured to some extent by what they knew of other areas of Britain and the Continent of Europe.

Daniel Defoe may not even have visited the Lakes when, in volume 3 of his A tour thro' the whole island of Great Britain (1726), he commented on the 'high and formidable' mountains' and the lack of anything of use or ornamentation to be found there – a pre-Romantic view of landscape prevailing with him.

Other travellers were perhaps less given to hyperbole. Celia Fiennes, for example, who made her journey between 1684 and 1703, (Through England on a side saddle), was more matter-of fact and more a reporter of what she actually saw – giving us "the last truly unconditioned reflex to Cumberland landscape", according to Nicholson. However, she still talked of "the desart and barren rocky hills" of Westmorland.

Thomas Pennant, a natural historian and antiquary, was more interested in the mines of Whitehaven than the Lakes (A Tour in Scotland, and voyage to the Hebrides, 1772); and Arthur Young more interested in the social and agricultural state of the area (A Six-months' tour through the North of England vol. 2, 1770) than in the landscape.