[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Regional seat of government

)
 The Drakelow RSG and the former SRC at Swynnerton, Staffordshire
 Region 10 (North West)
 There was little existing protected accommodation in the northwest and so a new SRC was built under a technical college at Southport
 Region 11 (Northern Ireland)
 Regional War Room, Mount Eden Park, Belfast

The situation in Scotland remained the same. By the 1970s, the risk of war had receded dramatically, and Britain had been forced to devalue the pound, so this network was reduced to a care-and-maintenance basis only. There was no new construction and no renovation of surplus military accommodation. Investment in communications was almost negligible, and in the event of a nuclear war, the infrastructure would have been largely useless.

The coming to power of Margaret Thatcher in 1979 led to the last hurrah of UK civil defence. A review in 1980 called for the network to be recast as Regional Government Headquarters (RGHQ), which would be equipped with up-to-date communications and either based on the existing SRCs or housed in completely new accommodation. The programme was slow to start however, and three new sites, carried on again in complete secrecy, were not completed until the 1980s with only a few years to go before the end of the Cold War made civil defence entirely redundant.

Last phase of Cold War
The final shape of secret dispersed regional government in the UK was:

 Region 1 (Scotland)
 A purpose-built HQ was constructed on a military base at Cultybraggan Camp near Comrie in central Scotland.
 Region 2 (North East)
 Hexham
 Region 3 (North Midlands)
 Skendleby
 Loughborough
 Region 4 (Eastern)
 Bawburgh
 Hertford
 Region 5 (London)
 Kelvedon Hatch
 Region 6 (Southern)
 Crowborough, Sussex (the Basingstoke site suffered from leaks). A bunker had been built here during the Second World War to house the Aspidistra transmitter, broadcasting to occupied Europe.
 Region 7 (South West)
 The Bolt Head/Hope Cove RSG/SRC and a new bunker to replace Ullenwood (which was too small) at Chilmark near Salisbury (another bunker at Chilmark was used by the RAF to store nuclear warheads).
 Region 8 (Wales)
 Brackla Hill, Bridgend and Wrexham, the latter being the former No 17 Group HQ Royal Observer Corps at Borras, Wrexham which had become redundant in September 1991 with the disbanding of the ROC.
 Region 9 (West Midlands)
 Drakelow
 Swynnerton
 Region 10 (North West)
 Hack Green, a former ROTOR bunker near Nantwich, Cheshire.
 Langley Lane at Goosnargh near Preston, a former Royal Observer Corps bunker dating back to the Second World War.
 The Southport SRC had to be abandoned as it suffered from flooding.
 Region 11 (Northern Ireland)
 Woodside Industrial Estate, Ballymena, County Antrim – a purpose-built two-storey semi-sunk protected bunker, declared operational 1989.

After the Cold War

By 1992, the end of the Cold War, brought about by the collapse of the Soviet Union, meant this network was now a luxury. Faced with – again – the need for economy, the UK government began to run down the network. The bunkers were closed one by one and sold off to the private sector where buyers could be found.

Some, such as Warren Row, became protected storage facilities operated by security companies. Others – many of them contaminated by asbestos – were simply abandoned. Those at Hexham, Loughborough and Kirknewton were demolished. The Tunbridge Wells war room has also been demolished (taking three months to accomplish rather than the planned-for two weeks). Crowborough is used by Sussex Police for training, whilst Cultybraggan first returned to army use and is now owned by the local community in Comrie. A handful – Drakelow Tunnels, Kelvedon Hatch, Hack Green, Dover and Anstruther – became museums. The Region 6 War Room survives to this day, having been Grade II listed in 2009. It is currently under the administration of the University of Reading, which utilises the building as a secure storage facility for the university library.

Gallery

See also
 Region 6 War Room
 Operation Candid
 Royal Observer Corps
 Spies for Peace

References

 Peter Laurie, Beneath the City Streets, Granada Publishing Ltd, 1979, . (First published 1970, Penguin Books.)
 Wayne Cocroft, Roger Thomas, Cold War: Building for Nuclear Confrontation 1946–1989, English Heritage, 2003, .
 N J McCamley, Cold War Secret Nuclear Bunkers'', Pen & Sword, 2002, .

External links
 Subterranea Britannica – documents underground sites in the UK

Subterranea of the United Kingdom
Cold War history of the United Kingdom
Emergency management in the United Kingdom
United Kingdom nuclear command and control
Cold War sites in the United Kingdom