[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1933 in baseball

Headline Events of the Year
 First Major League Baseball All-Star Game, July 6 at Comiskey Park: American League, 4–2.
 First Negro League Baseball All-Star Game, September 10, also at Comiskey Park: West, 11–7.

Champions

Major League Baseball
World Series: New York Giants over Washington Senators (4–1)
First All-Star Game, July 6 at Comiskey Park: American League, 4–2

Other champions
The Negro National League was the only Negro league operating this season.  The Chicago American Giants won the pennant.
First Negro League Baseball All-Star Game, September 10 at Comiskey Park: West, 11–7

Awards and honors
Most Valuable Player
Jimmie Foxx, Philadelphia Athletics, 1B (AL)
Carl Hubbell, New York Giants, P (NL)

MLB statistical leaders

Major league baseball final standings

American League final standings

National League final standings

Negro leagues final standings

Negro National League final standings

Homestead was expelled for raiding players.
Several games were included in the standings against non-League teams.
Post-season:
Indianapolis and Pittsburgh won the first half.
Indianapolis beat Pittsburgh in a one-game play-off.
Nashville and Pittsburgh won the second half.
Pittsburgh beat Nashville in a 3-game play-off.
Indianapolis and Pittsburgh tied in a one-game play-off.
Pittsburgh owner/League commissioner awarded the Pennant to Pittsburgh, over the objection of Indianapolis.

Events
As a rookie with the San Francisco Seals of the Pacific Coast League, Joe DiMaggio hit safely in 61 consecutive games, breaking the PCL record of 49 games set by Jack Ness in 1914.

January
January 7 – The Cleveland Indians trade Luke Sewell to the Washington Senators for Roy Spencer.

February
February 9 – Brooklyn Dodgers and future Hall of Fame pitcher Dazzy Vance is traded to the St. Louis Cardinals along with infielder Gordon Slade in exchange for pitcher Ownie Carroll and infielder Jake Flowers.

March
March 11 – An earthquake hits the Los Angeles area, interrupting an exhibition game between the Chicago Cubs and New York Giants. Players from both teams were forced to huddle around the center of the diamond until the tremors stopped.
March 24 – Babe Ruth, another victim of the Great Depression, takes a pay cut of $23,000 from his previous salary of $75,000.

April
April 12 – The Cleveland Indians defeat the Detroit Tigers, 4–1, in thirteen innings on Opening Day.
April 25 :
During the New York Yankees' 16–0 drubbing of the Washington Senators, speedy Yankee outfielder Ben Chapman spikes Senators' second baseman Buddy Myer, leading to a wild 20-minute brawl. 300 fans join in, and all the involved players are suspended for five games and fined $100.
Philadelphia Phillies shortstop Dick Bartell is four-for-four with four doubles in the Phillies' 7–1 victory over the Boston Braves.

May
May 16 – The Washington Senators beat the Cleveland Indians, 11–10, in twelve innings. Cleveland uses five pitchers; Washington uses six. The combined eleven pitchers used was at the time a record.
May 30 – John Stone of the Detroit Tigers becomes the first player in major league history to collect six extra base hits in a regulation length doubleheader‚ as he hit four doubles and two home runs against the St. Louis Browns.

June
June 14 - Both New York Yankees manager Joe McCarthy and first baseman Lou Gehrig are ejected from a game. McCarthy is suspended for three games. Gehrig is luckily not suspended, thus keeping his iron man streak intact.
June 16 – The New York Giants trade Sam Leslie to the Brooklyn Dodgers for Watty Clark and Lefty O'Doul.
June 17 – The Philadelphia Phillies trade Hal Lee and Pinky Whitney to the Boston Braves for Wes Schulmerich and Fritz Knothe.

July
July 2 - The New York Giants' Carl Hubbell tied an MLB record for the longest shutout when he needed 18 innings to beat the St Louis Cardinals 1–0.
July 6 – The first Major League Baseball All-Star Game was held in Comiskey Park, Chicago, home of the Chicago White Sox. The American League defeated the National League, 4–2, highlighted by Babe Ruth's third inning home run
July 19 – Rick and Wes Ferrell become the first brothers on opposing teams to hit home runs in the same game, as Wes' Indians defeat Rick's BoSox, 8–7, in thirteen innings.
July 22 – The Washington Senators and New York Yankees are tied for first with 55–32 records. Washington beats the Detroit Tigers 4–3, while the Yanks fall to the Cleveland Indians 2–1. Washington maintains sole possession of first place for the remainder of the season.
July 26 – Rogers Hornsby joins the St. Louis Browns.
July 30 – St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Dizzy Dean set a modern major league record striking out 17 Chicago Cubs batters. Besides, his battery teammate Jimmie Wilson also sets a new mark for a catcher while recording 18 putouts.