[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michael Nicholson

bject of This Is Your Life in 1991, when he was surprised by Michael Aspel at the London offices of ITN.

From 1999-2009 he was a presenter/reporter with ITV's current affair programme 'Tonight', and was employed by BBC Radio 2 and 4. He was also employed by a variety of British national newspapers.

Awards 
 International Film & Television Monte Carlo 'Silver Nymph Award' (1976), for war reporting from the Vietnam War.
 South Atlantic Medal (1982). 
 Royal Television Society's 'Journalist of the Year' (1991) (later winning the award three times).
 'Richard Dimbleby Award' for Services to Television (1992).
 Order of the British Empire (1992). 
 'Specialist Reporter of the Year' (1998), Royal Television Society.

Nicholson was also an EMMY Honours finalist in 1969 for 'Christmas in Biafra' and for 'Shooting the Messenger' in 2009, a Sony Broadcasting Awards finalist (2007), and three times Gold Medalist in New York's Broadcasting Guilds Award.

Publications 
Fiction: 
 The Partridge Kite
 Red Joker, 
 December Ultimatum 
 Pilgrim's Rest.
 Dark Rosaleen

Non Fiction: 
 A Measure of Danger 
 Across the Limpopo 
 Natasha's Story 
 A State of War Exists – Reporters in the Line of Fire.

Natasha 
While reporting from Sarajevo in 1992 Nicholson found 200 orphans living in a mortared and shelled building – four had already been killed. Nicholson pleaded with the authorities to evacuate them, including Natasha, a nine-year-old who had been abandoned by her mother. He smuggled her out of the country, claiming her as his daughter, and handing her to the immigration authorities at London Heathrow airport.

Despite protests from the Bosnian authorities and journalistic critics, Nicholson succeeded in adopting her. Natasha attended local state primary and secondary schools near her home in Surrey and later gained an HND in sports science from the University of Bath.

Nicholson published his experiences in his book, Natasha's Story on which the 1997 film Welcome to Sarajevo is based.

Personal life 
Nicholson lived with his wife Diana, two sons Thomas and William, and adopted daughter Natasha in Grayswood, Haslemere, Surrey.  He also had a daughter named Ana, whom he adopted from Brazil.

Death
Nicholson died at the age of 79 whilst on a holiday cruise ship in the Persian Gulf with his wife.

References

External links

 Imperial War Museum Interview from 2003

1937 births
2016 deaths
Alumni of the University of Leicester
ITN newsreaders and journalists
British people of the Falklands War
Officers of the Order of the British Empire
British war correspondents
People of the Vietnam War
War correspondents of the Nigerian Civil War
People from Romford