[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alan Friedman

Alan Friedman (; born April 30, 1956) is an American journalist, author, documentary writer and producer, TV anchor and former media and public relations executive.

Early life and education 
Friedman was born in New York City from a Jewish family, he was educated at New York University (NYU) (B.A. Politics and History), the London School of Economics (International Relations), and the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (M.A. International Economics and Law).

Career 
Friedman worked in the administration of U.S. president Jimmy Carter in the role of Presidential Management Intern. He began his professional career working for the staff of Bella Abzug (D-NY) and of Donald M. Fraser (D-MN). From 1979 to 1993, he worked for the Financial Times of London as a columnist on bonds, a banking correspondent, and a foreign correspondent in Italy and the United States. His professional relationship with the International Herald Tribune and RAI made way in 1999 to a joint venture for the co-production of the weekly programmes World Business.

Friedman was recognized as the journalist who led the report on the Iraqgate scandal in 1991 that connected the CIA with the supply of non-U.S. origin weapons to Saddam Hussein. His television career began in the early 1980s with regular appearances on BBC Newsnight. In 1991, he participated, with Ted Koppel of the ABC Nightline programme, in the production of a series of broadcasts by ABC/Financial Times on the scandal of the weapons sale to Iraq. He hosted the Alan Friedman Show, a peak talk show on the Sky TG24 news channel in Italy. It was dedicated to national and international economics and politics. From 1994 to 2003, he was global economics correspondent of the IHT.

From 2003 to 2005, Friedman was global economy columnist for The Wall Street Journal in Europe. He was executive editor of World Business, a weekly global business programme produced by FBC Media and broadcast on CNBC. Friedman founded and was chairman of FBC. The programme was cancelled in August 2011 after it was revealed that FBC acted as a public relations firm for the government of Malaysia and carried puff pieces in the shows it produced. FBC Media went into administration on 24 October 2011.

In February 2014, Friedman's new book Ammazziamo il Gattopardo (Let's Murder the Leopard) was serialized with an excerpt in the Financial Times. He received the America Award of the Italy-USA Foundation in 2014. On September 6, 2014, he was awarded the Premio Cesare Pavese, an Italian literary award, for the book. On December 2, 2014, he received the Premio Pannunzio 2014, an Italian journalism award. The motivation, read on behalf of the jury, said: "He represents a fine example of journalism in the Anglo-Saxon tradition, a journalism where facts are separated from opinions, with independent judgement in describing Italian politics, and this is very much to his credit. Friedman succeeds in putting the present into historical perspective, with objectivity and impartiality."

In June 2015, it was announced in the Italian media that Friedman would write the first authorized biography of the former Prime Minister of Italy and media tycoon Silvio Berlusconi. In a video message in the Italian newspaper La Repubblica, Berlusconi explained that for many years journalists had asked him to write his biography but had always declined. He finally decided to work with Friedman because he trusted him. Berlusconi also added: "As Steve Jobs said to his biographer: I will tell you my story. You will write what you like." His biography of Berlusconi was published in 19 languages and in 32 countries in the United States, Europe, and Asia. The first publication was in October 2015 in the United States by Hachette Books (Berlusconi: The Epic Story of the Billionaire Who Took Over Italy), in the United Kingdom by Biteback Publishing (My Way: Berlusconi in His Own Words), and in Italy by Rizzoli (My Way: Berlusconi si racconta a Friedman), in France by Michel Lafon Publishing (Berlusconi se raconte a Friedman), in the Netherlands by Spectrum (Berlusconi), and subsequently in Finland, Portugal, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, Spain, China, Russia, Azerbaijan, Sweden, Turkey, and other countries. In the documentary My Way: The Rise and Fall of Silvio Berlusconi, Friedman leads as narrator through the research phase for his book. It first appeared on Netflix and shows interview footage with Berlusconi at his estate in Arcore. Friedman lets Berlusconi chronologically tell his life story but confronts him with allegations and leads interviews with investigators and companions.