[Source: PubMed]

58. Behav Sci Law. 2025 Jul-Aug;43(4):401-418. doi: 10.1002/bsl.2721. Epub 2025
Mar  24.

Using the Moral-Situational-Action Model of Extremist Violence (MSA-EV) to 
Assess Fluctuating Levels of Risk in Women: The Relevance of Risk, Promotive, 
and Protective Factors.

Warren JI(1)(2), Grabowska AA(3), Gould AC(1)(4), Patterson T(5), Saathoff 
GB(6)(7), Fancher A(7), Brown DE(8).

Author information:
(1)Park Dietz and Associates, Newport Beach, California, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neurobehavioral Sciences, School of Medicine, 
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, 
USA.
(4)Threat Assessment Group, Newport Beach, California, USA.
(5)Insider Threat/Crisis Management/Enterprise Security Department, GE 
Aerospace, Washington, DC, USA.
(6)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, 
Virginia, USA.
(7)Behavioral Analysis Unit, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Quantico, 
Virginia, USA.
(8)Department of Systems and Information Engineering, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.

Our research examines the Moral Situational Action Model of Extremist Violence 
(MSA-EV) in differentiating radicalized women who are likely to proceed to acts 
of lethal violence from those who are not using an additional risk, protective, 
and promotive paradigm that has not been applied to this data previously Using 
the same unique dataset of 300 female terrorists, we found that risk factors 
were more common than promotive and protective factors but that all three 
elements were identified across all three domains of the MSA-EV. The propensity 
domain included 14 risk factors, seven protective factors, and five promotive 
factors; the mobilization domain 25 risk factors, one protective factor, and 
three promotive factors; and the action-capacity-building domain nine risk 
factors, three protective factors, and three promotive factors. As suggested by 
Wikström, these three categories of predictive variables were not cumulative in 
nature. Rather, they captured distinctive types of information that could be 
used differentially to inform investigations, interventions, and issues of 
primary prevention. These findings offer support to Farrington's (2016) 
description of the RPP paradigm as one that allowed researchers to "[l]ink 
explanation and prevention, link fundamental and applied research, and link 
scholars, policymakers, and practitioners."

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bsl.2721
PMID: 40125658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]