[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Boogiepop Returns: VS Imaginator Part 1

et, and orders him to enter Shinyo Academy – following this, Anou would occasionally cry for no apparent reason.  Due to the change in his behaviour, Anou receives a love letter, and is instructed by Spooky E to follow it up, but a chance encounter with Asukai Jin frees Anou from Spooky E's control.

When Anou goes to meet the girl who sent the letter to him, he arrives at the roof of a department store.  When he saw a girl there, he begins to speak to her, but his words reveal that he had been freed from Spooky E's control – the synthetic human leaps out to erase him at this, but a microfilament wire saves him at the last second.  The 'girl' had been none other than Boogiepop himself, who had decided to kill Spooky E for his actions.  Despite being significantly overpowered by Boogiepop, Spooky E escapes, at the cost of his right ear.  Boogiepop gives Anou the real love letter, which he had exchanged earlier, before leaving.

Before the start of the new school year, Suema returns to Shinyo Academy, as the new students are being orientated, meeting up eventually and shortly with Niitoki Kei (and hearing that she is no longer head of the Displinary Committee from Niitoki).  Anou and his girlfriend arrive at Shinyo Academy, but he questions why he is there in the first place.  Whilst looking down at the place where Minahoshi Suiko had killed herself, Suema meets Orihata Aya.  Orihata asks Suema about Boogiepop, but she brushes it off as a fantasy to "protect an unstable heart."  Suema quotes Kirima Seiichi's VS Imaginator hoping to reassure Orihata about her way in life.

Characters

 
A middle-school student, Anou is confused by the feelings he has towards Taniguchi Masaki, and so vents his frustrations on him instead.

 
A girl who jumped off the roof of Shinyo Academy a year ago, but was Boogiepop somehow involved with this incident?

 
A middle-school student with a bad reputation (said in the novel to be a slut) and having a strange manner with people, she is actually a synthetic human known as Camille, working under Spooky E in the search for Boogiepop under the Towa Organization.

 
A synthetic human from the Towa Organisation, Spooky Electric is searching for Boogiepop.

 
A middle-school student, and the stepbrother of Kirima Nagi, Taniguchi is in love with Orihata Aya.

Anime
Episodes 4 to 9 of Boogiepop and Others adapt the 2 part novel in an abridged form with a present-day setting.

Allusions/references to other works
Kadono regularly references Western music – especially rock – in the Boogiepop series. This is mostly in the chapter titles, but also in the names of characters.  The two Towa Agents in this novel, Orihata and Spooky E, are references to two personalities Prince claims to have: Camille, who is his good side, and Spooky Electric, who is his bad side.  The novel begins with a direct reference to Salome, a ballet by Akira Ifukube, where Minahoshi whistles a tune from it.  The novel contains two distinct plots, each being references to songs by Prince: If I Was Your Girlfriend was a single from the album Sign "O" the Times, while Sometimes it Snows in April was a single released in 1986.

When Asukai Jin thinks about his powers, he is reminded of a line in The Little Prince, by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry.

Literary significance & criticism
The English release of Boogiepop Returns: VS Imaginator Part 1 has, like the previous title, been praised for its excellent translation.  The writing style is compared with that of Ray Bradbury, and is praised for the "great skill" demonstrated in the structure, but it is criticised for being too short and only serving to set the story for the next book, Boogiepop Returns: VS Imaginator Part 2.

Allusions/references from other works
The anime series Boogiepop Phantom makes reference to Orihata's original mission about why Spooky E came to the city.

Release details
1998, Japan, MediaWorks (), Pub date August 25, 1998, Paperback
2006, USA, Seven Seas Entertainment (), Pub date June 21, 2006, Paperback

Sources, references, external links, quotations
 References

 See also
Characters of the Boogiepop series

1998 Japanese novels
Boogiepop
Novels by Kouhei Kadono