[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Foix–Chavany–Marie syndrome

a or akinetic mutism are not able to perform voluntary commands that involve the use of limbs, while patients with FCMS still possess voluntary usage of limbs. If a person can demonstrate ability in voluntary usage of limbs, catatonia and akinetic mutism are most likely ruled out from the diagnosis.

In determining a diagnosis between Broca's aphasia and FCMS, a person must demonstrate their ability in voluntary movement of cranial musculature. People with Broca's aphasia may not exhibit a complete loss of voluntary movement facial muscles, pharyngeal muscles, laryngeal muscles, brachial muscles, tongue muscles, and muscles of the mouth that aid in chewing. These voluntary functions may still be present, to varying degrees. People with FCMS do not possess this ability. For people with FCMS, voluntary movement of cranial musculature is completely absent.

In determining a diagnosis between pseudobulbar palsy, a person must demonstrate whether or not muteness is present, as well as the ability to move the facial, buccal, lingual, and pharyngeal muscles. People with pseudobulbar palsy exhibit, to varying degrees, an ability in these functions, while patients with FCMS do not.

Techniques 
There are three general classes of tests utilized by physicians when determining a diagnosis for FCMS: (1) automatic-voluntary dissociation assessment, (2) psycholinguistic testing, and (3) neuropsychological testing. In addition, brain scanning techniques are utilized to observe whether ischemic abnormalities or lesions are present within the operculum region of the cortices.

Automatic-voluntary dissociation assessment 
FCMS is largely characterized by the paralysis of voluntary movement in facial, lingual, pharyngeal, and masticatory muscles, while automatic, involuntary functions of these four muscle groups remain. Automatic functions are performed by inducing involuntary reflexes, such as palatal, laryngeal, blink, and gag reflexes. Other involuntary functions that are tested include spontaneous smiling, laughter, and yawning. Patients with the disorder are able to these functions under automatic, involuntary reflex. An individual's ability to perform these functions voluntarily are tested determined through a series of commands by the physician. Typically, individuals with the disorder are not able to perform any of these functions upon command. Dissociation between automatic and voluntary dissociation is indicated by an individual's ability to perform the involuntary, automatic functions, and their inability to perform the same actions, voluntary.

Psycholinguistic testing 
Psycholinguistics pertain to the psychological and neurobiological components that allow humans to acquire, utilize, comprehend, and produce language. The tests most commonly used for psycholinguistic testing include the Dutch version of Aachen aphasia test, syntactic comprehension test, and the Token test. Psycholinguistics allow physicians to narrow down and rule out other disorders that may be similar to FCMS when diagnosing a patient.

Neuropsychological testing 
Neuropsychology is the study of neurobiology and psychology. Neuropsychological tests are utilized for the purpose of observing an individual's abilities in cognitive functioning, reasoning, and memories. The tests most commonly used for neuropsychological testing include WAIS-III, Stroop test, Bourdon Wiersma test, and the Rey–Osterrieth complex figure test. These tests allow physicians to evaluate the degree to which the bilateral lesions in the operculum have been affected, and allow for the determination of proper treatment.

Imaging 
Scanning techniques include EEG, SPECT, MRI, and CT brain scanning. These additional techniques are useful in determining what type of lesion the patient has, and allows physicians to determine more effective ways in treating the patient.

Magnetic resonance imaging 
MRI is one of the best techniques that can detect the lesions in the brain of the FCMS that some of the times are missed by just using a Computer-Tomography Scan. Also, this type of imaging can reveal right frontal lobes contusions encompassing the anterior operculum, the premotor area, and the association area.

CT scan 
This computer-tomography type of imaging is one of the most used in any clinical environment and although it can detect some of the brain areas affected by a stroke or a trauma it does not provide the same acuity as the magnetic resonance imaging. CT scans can also reveal, in patients with the syndrome, the bilateral cortical infarcts located in the posterior frontal region involving the opercular areas.

SPECT 
The single photon emission computed tomography of the brain can show uptake area in the right frontal lobe and normal uptake are in the left hemisphere. This type of imaging can give a more detailed view of a specific region of the brain.