[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of St. Charles

small offensive across the Little Red on May 27 was successful, but lack of supplies forced Curtis to withdraw back across both the Little Red and the White, and he sent a message to the Union leadership in St. Louis, Missouri, on June 4, that he would need to continue his retreat if not reinforced.

The message was forwarded to Major General Henry W. Halleck, who then directed Flag Officer Charles H. Davis to send a flotilla up the White River to Jacksonport to resupply Curtis, as the roads in that region of Arkansas were too poor for easy resupply by land. Halleck also communicated with United States Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton, who in turn passed the communication to Secretary of the Navy Gideon Welles, who sent a telegram to Davis ordering him to move up the White to relieve Curtis. Davis received Welles's telegram on June 12 and began making immediate preparations for the movement. He asked Colonel Charles R. Ellet, commander of the Ram Fleet, to send some of the ram ships to serve with the vessels of Davis's Western Flotilla, but Ellet would agree to this only under the condition that the Ram Fleet and Western Flotilla vessels would be separate commands, which Davis refused. Less than a week before, on June 6, the Ram Fleet, under Ellet's father Charles Ellet Jr., and Davis's flotilla, had defeated a Confederate naval fleet at the First Battle of Memphis and taken the city of Memphis, Tennessee. The furthest north Confederate stronghold on the Mississippi River was now Vicksburg, Mississippi, as positions upriver at Columbus, Kentucky, and Island Number Ten had been taken earlier in the year. Few Confederate gunboats remained on the upper portion of the Mississippi watershed, and they were generally in hiding.

Kilty moves up the White

On June 13, Davis's detachment left Memphis. It was composed of the ironclads USS Mound City and USS St. Louis, the timberclad USS Lexington, and the tugboat USS Spitfire. The ships were under the command of Commander Augustus Kilty. On June 14, the steamboat White Cloud arrived at Memphis; it was to transport the supplies that would go to Curtis. Davis had also heard that the Confederates had blocked the White with a submerged wooden raft, which would have to be removed. Expecting the riverbanks to be occupied by Confederate soldiers, Colonel Graham Fitch and his 46th Indiana Infantry Regiment were sent on the transport New National to provide infantry support. Fitch's force was almost 1,000 men strong.

On the morning of June 15, the timberclad USS Conestoga, New National, White Cloud, and the steamboat Jacob Musselman left Memphis to join Kilty. Meanwhile, Spitfire had escorted a captured Confederate steamboat downriver and was replaced by the tugboat USS Spiteful. The two groups of ships united on June 16. On the same day, Kilty's ships approached St. Charles. The vessels made it within  of the defenses. Two scouting parties were sent forward: one on shore and one on Spiteful. They detected the two Confederate batteries, as well as further infantry and naval components, but were unable to provide exact strengths. Fitch and Kilty decided to attack the next morning.

Confederate preparations
Confederate Major General Thomas C. Hindman had replaced Van Dorn as commander in Arkansas. Working to build up the remnants left by Van Dorn's departure, Hindman declared martial law, authorized guerrilla warfare, and formed the base of an army. After Curtis's expedition bogged down, Hindman anticipated a Union naval movement up either the White or the Arkansas River. He sent out a surveying expedition on June 3 to investigate the possibility of blocking the rivers. When the level of the Arkansas River fell, the Confederates focused on the White. A site near St. Charles was selected as a favorable location for the emplacement of a battery on the bluffs and an obstruction in the river. Captain A. M. Williams and 100 soldiers were sent to construct the emplacements. Logs were floated downriver and driven into the river bottom as an obstruction, and batteries were constructed on the bluffs. Two rifled 32-pounder guns were taken from the gunboat CSS Pontchartrain and mounted in the main battery on June 8, while two 3-inch Parrott rifles were sent from Little Rock and placed in a smaller position  away. Pontchartrain's guns were placed on a commanding position on a bluff  above a bend in the river. While they had an excellent field of fire, they were also masked by trees and brush. The gunboat CSS Maurepas arrived at St. Charles on June 14. Two days later, Hindman was informed of Kilty's movement. With the obstruction incomplete and no other troops available to reinforce the St. Charles position, 35 sailors and naval officers from Pontchartrain, including Lieutenant John W. Dunnington, the vessel's commander, volunteered and were sent down to help man the defenses. They arrived at 18:00 that day.