[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Government procurement in the United States

overnment work," or it's a "G-job."

Some workers took advantage of military secrecy by doing personal work while on the job and falsely claiming they were doing a G-job.

After the war, "G-job" became slang for doing personal work while on the job and using their employer's equipment and materials.

Programs of Record
A Program of Record is a procurement program which is "a directed, funded effort that provides a new, improved, or continuing materiel, weapon, or information system or service capability in response to an approved need". A Program of Record requires certain documentation (eg. Acquisition Program Baseline (APB), acquisition strategies, Selected Acquisition Reports (SAR), etc.) and is recorded in the Future Year's Defense Program (FYDP) or can be updated from the previous year's FYDP. Prime government contractors bid to secure contracts to fulfill these Programs of Record. The term "Program of Record" originates from these programs being recorded in the budget as "line item record[s]", hence the name. However, not all procurement programs are programs of record. For example, acquisition programs made on an "Urgent Needs" basis are not considered Programs of Record as they lack some of the required documentation. Such programs can be converted into programs of record later on if that documentation is completed and the program adheres to the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, among other requirements. 

The roadmap for the fulfilment of a Program of Record is split into five periods:

 Materiel Solutions Analysis (MSA)
 Technology Maturation and Risk Reduction (TMRR)
 Engineering and Manufacturing Development (EMD)
 Production and Deployment (P&D): this includes start of Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP), Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E), transition to Full Rate Production/Full Deployment, and achievement of Initial Operational Capability (IOC)
 Operations and Sustainment (O&S): this includes achievement of Full Operational Capability (FOC) and continues out to the product's end-of-life and disposal
Key points along the roadmap include three major Milestones and four major Decision Points.

Milestones:

 Milestone A: typical requirements include having a draft Capability Development Document (CDD), completed the Analysis of Alternatives study, justified the affordability and feasibility of the program, identified the necessary technologies, established the scope of the program, estimated program cost, proposed an acquisition strategy, developed a test strategy for assessing the acquired product/service 
 Milestone B: allows a program to enter the Engineering & Manufacturing Development phase. Includes approval of the Acquisition Program Baseline (APB)
 Milestone C: allows a program to award contracts, begin Production and Deployment phase, and enter Low-Rate Initial Product (LRIP)

Decision Points:

 Materiel Development Decision (MDD): the "entry point" in the major capability acquisition process; requires an Initial Capabilities Document (ICD) or equivalent, as well as a having developed the study guidance and study plan for an Analysis of Alternatives (AOA) study
 CDD Validation: affirms the capability requirements being sought in the product or service being acquired
 Development RFP (Request for Proposal) Release Decision Point: ensures that the acquisition program planned is affordable and achievable before releasing the RFP to the industry
 Full Rate Production/Full Deployment Decision: allows a program to begin full rate production of a product or full deployment of the product to units

Contracting Officers

Each Contracting Officer (CO) has a specific warrant which states the conditions under which they are permitted to engage in Federal contracting as an agent of the Government. The authority of a Contracting Officer to contract on behalf of the Government is set forth in a public document (a certificate of appointment, formerly called a "warrant") which a person dealing with the Contracting Officer can review. The CO does not have authority to act outside this warrant or to deviate from the laws and regulations controlling Federal Government contracts. The private contracting party is held to know the limitations of the CO's authority, even if the CO does not. This makes contracting with the United States a more structured and restricted process than a commercial one.