[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Benoît Pelletier

oach taken by Jean Chrétien's federal government in fighting the Quebec sovereignty movement. During the period of the Gomery inquiry, he remarked that the sponsorship scandal was caused by figures in the Canadian government who believed that "with money you could change the view of the population."

When the Chrétien government introduced the Clarity Act in 2000, the PQ government in Quebec responded with a bill proclaiming Quebec's right to self-determination. While Pelletier opposed the Clarity Act, he also led the Liberal Party's opposition to the latter bill, which he argued was the prelude to a new referendum on sovereignty. He instead introduced a motion in the national assembly recognizing Quebec's right to declare independence if the Canadian government did not negotiate in good faith after a sovereigntist victory in a hypothetical future referendum. (The motion itself was not an endorsement of independence.)

Cabinet minister
The Liberal Party won a majority government in the 2003 Quebec general election, and Pelletier was returned by an increased margin in Chapleau. On 29 April 2003, he was appointed to the Charest cabinet as minister of Canadian Intergovernmental Affairs and minister of Aboriginal Affairs as well as minister responsible for the Outaouais.

On 18 February 2005, he was relieved of his responsibilities for Aboriginal Affairs and given new responsibilities for Francophone Canadians and the reform of democratic institutions. From 17 March 2005, he was also styled as the minister responsible for the Agreement on Internal Trade and the minister responsible for Access to Information. Pelletier was President of the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Committee of Ministers on Internal Trade from December 2004 to December 2005. He was also a member of the Special Committee on Electoral Reform from June 2005 to May 2006.

Pelletier was returned by a reduced margin in the 2007 provincial election, as a surge in support for the Action démocratique du Québec reduced the Liberals to a minority government. Following a cabinet shuffle on 17 April 2007, Pelletier kept his existing ministerial designations (except for responsibility for the Agreement on Internal Trade) and was once again assigned to Aboriginal Affairs. He also became leader of the government in parliament.

Intergovernmental Affairs Minister
2003–06 (Chrétien and Martin governments)
Pelletier became Intergovernmental Affairs Minister near the end of Jean Chrétien's tenure as prime minister of Canada. Most of his interactions were with Chrétien's successors, Paul Martin and Stephen Harper.

Pelletier often defended Quebec's political jurisdiction against what he regarded as encroachments from the Canadian government. He spoke against Employment Insurance reforms introduced by the Martin government in 2004 and later criticized Martin's attempt to create a national child care plan with funds targeted to guidelines determined by federal government. (Quebec has had a provincial child care plan for several years.) Pelletier argued that provinces should be allowed to opt out of these and related federal plans and to set up alternative models with federal funding. Notwithstanding their disagreements, Pelletier and his counterparts in the Canadian government completed a four-year deal on child care funding just before the Martin administration fell in late 2005.

Pelletier also supported Quebec's autonomy in the management of health care. In early 2005, he announced that the province would undertake a controversial experiment with some private health providers. While stressing that he supported the five principles of Canadian medicare and favoured the public system, he nonetheless called for "some adjustments that would allow participation for the private partners."

Pelletier also negotiated with the Martin government for Quebec to have a more autonomous role in international forums such as UNESCO, and for changes to the system of federal–provincial transfers (known to some as the fiscal imbalance). In late 2004, he wrote guest columns for the English-language The Globe and Mail and National Post newspapers defending the principle of asymmetric federalism.

2006–08 (Harper government)
Pelletier initially welcomed the victory of Stephen Harper's Conservative Party in the 2006 federal election, saying that it created an opportunity "to improve Canada, to get a new vision of Canadian federalism, and to strengthen Quebec within Canada." After the election, Harper fulfilled a campaign pledge to give Quebec a seat at UNESCO. (Some, however, have noted that the provincial delegate cannot in practice take positions contrary to Canada's representative.)