[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniel Jones (footballer)

, and a first team place at Hillsborough proved to be out of reach as Wednesday struggled to survive in the Championship in the 2012–13 season under the stewardship of new boss Dave Jones. Searching for first team football elsewhere, he left Wednesday by mutual consent on 17 January 2013.

Port Vale

Only hours after his release by Sheffield Wednesday was announced, Jones agreed to join League Two leaders Port Vale on a short-term deal until the end of the 2012–13 season. He scored on his debut with "a stunning long-range effort" in a 2–2 draw with AFC Wimbledon at Kingsmeadow on 24 January. Vale were promoted at the end of the season, with Jones making 16 appearances. He signed a new two-year contract in the summer, citing manager Micky Adams' attacking philosophy as a reason for extending his stay at the club.

He started the 2013–14 season in the first XI, but had to fight for his place after missing with a groin strain. He picked up the club's first red card of the season on 19 October, when he was dismissed for two bookable offences 20 minutes into a 2–1 defeat to Sheffield United at Bramall Lane. Two months later he was sidelined for several weeks after picking up a foot injury. He returned to the first team on the left-side of midfield in February. On 14 April 2014, Jones was sacked by Port Vale following a training ground bust-up that left club captain Doug Loft with a facial injury.

Chesterfield
On 15 May 2014, Jones signed a two-contract year with newly promoted League One side Chesterfield as manager Paul Cook's first signing of the 2014–15 season. On 4 October he was fouled by Sheffield United's Michael Higdon, who was sent off for the challenge, though Jones was ridiculed for his "fish out of water" reaction. Jones himself was sent off on 29 November, after getting involved with a fight during a 1–1 draw at Crawley Town. He helped the "Spireites" to the play-offs, where they were beaten by Preston North End at the semi-final stage.

Jones suffered a fractured ankle after "pushing and turning at the same time" during Chesterfield's match 4–0 defeat to Swindon Town on 28 November 2015. A setback of the injury meant that he was kept him out of action for nine months, before he returned in Chesterfield's 3–1 victory over Swindon on 13 August 2016. However, he was then forced to miss another six months with a re-occurrence of the same injury, before managing a return to fitness in the Chesterfield's 1–0 defeat to Oldham Athletic on 4 February 2017. He remained in and out of the side and was released by manager Gary Caldwell following the club's relegation to League Two at the end of the season.

Notts County
Jones signed a contract of undisclosed length with League Two side Notts County in July 2017. Manager Kevin Nolan said that "we have added another quality player to what is already a promising squad". On 9 September, he scored his first goal for the club in a 2–0 home win over Morecambe, and was described by Nolan as on "another level". Speaking the following month, Jones said that he was enjoying the competition for the left-back spot with Carl Dickinson. He signed a new two-year contract by Notts County at the end of the 2017–18 season, whilst Dickinson was released.

On 1 September 2018, he was sent off for committing a two-footed challenge on Lloyd James in a 3–1 home defeat to Forest Green Rovers; new manager Harry Kewell watched the game from the stands. He was released by Notts County at the end of the 2018–19 season.

Cambridge United
On 19 July 2019, Jones signed a one-year contract with League Two club Cambridge United after a successful trial spell. The "U's" had been in search of a new left-back following the departure of Jake Carroll to Motherwell and manager Colin Calderwood felt that Jones had settled in at the Abbey Stadium better than the other trialist left-backs. However he missed three months of the start of the 2019–20 season with a broken foot. On 9 March, Mark Bonner replaced Calderwood as manager, and just two days later a loan deal was arranged for Jones with National League club Solihull Moors. Moors manager James Shan said that "We have had to tap into the loan market to provide cover for Alex Gudger and Mitch Hancox who both picked up knocks." However he was unable to feature for the Moors due to the COVID-19 pandemic in England, and on 29 April Cambridge announced that Jones would be one of nine players to be released by the club at the end of the season.

Hereford
On 14 July 2020, Jones joined National League North club Hereford after being approached by player-manager Josh Gowling. On 23 February 2021, Jones was released from his contract to allow him to move closer to his family.

League of Ireland
In July 2021, Jones signed for Bray Wanderers of the League of Ireland First Division. Ahead of the 2022 season, Jones moved from Bray to fellow First Division side Longford Town.