[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Independent Students' Association

6 Polish colleges and universities (out of 89 such schools existing then nationwide). The National Coordinating Commission was elected, and the first chairman of the NZS was Jagiellonian University's Jarosław Guzy. Statutes of the Association were written by a young student of law, Jan Maria Rokita.

The Association quickly grew, reaching by May 1981 some 80 000 members. Its Coordinating Commission was planning to open an independent students’ magazine, but the government refused, explaining that there was "lack of paper". NZS was a very active association, which organized meetings with key members of the opposition movement (such as Adam Michnik, Lech Wałęsa, Jacek Kuroń). Furthermore, the Association was deeply engaged in political actions. On May 25, 1981, in several Polish cities, the students organized street marches in defence of political prisoners. In November 1981, 55 000 students of 81 Polish colleges declared a general strike to demand the ouster of a newly appointed rector at the Radom Engineering School.

In late November and early December 1981, another important event took place. On November 25, students of Warsaw's School of Fire Service Officers went on strike to protest their college's being subjected directly to the Ministry of Interior and Administration versus the Higher Education Bill. The cadets demanded both an exemption from police duties, and academic rights.

Banning and re-establishment 
Polish students did not enjoy their freedom for long. Following the martial law in Poland, the Association was banned on February 5, 1981, and many of its activists were arrested. The NZS was still active in the underground, especially in large population centers, such as Warsaw, Wrocław and Kraków. Some of its members, such as Teodor Klincewicz from Warsaw, were actively involved in various forms of anti-government protests. Also, students of the Law Department at Łódź  University, in opposition to martial law, organized a sit-in, which was brutally broken by the riot police. Another strike was broken at Kraków's Pedagogical University. At some point in the mid-1980s, the Association began cooperation with high-school students organization Federation of Fighting Youth.

The NZS, which in the years 1984-1985 was in the decline, began to flourish, beginning in 1986, when a new generation of students replaced the old. The number of self-published magazines grew, new chapters were created, and finally, in September 1988, during the Third Meeting of NZS Delegates in Gdańsk, new leaders were elected. Soon afterwards, the Registration Committees were opened across the nation, and thousands of students joined the Association.

During the round table talks, it was agreed that the NZS would be re-registered. However, the government did not keep this promise. This resulted in the creation of the National Student Strike Committee, which consisted of: Tomasz Ziemiński, Mariusz Kamiński, Przemysław Gosiewski, P. Nycz, W. Kiliński, Sławomir Skrzypek, R. Kosiorek, Grzegorz Schetyna, B. Pichur, Artur Olszewski, Igor Wójcik, P. Janiszewski, A. Jasionowski, K. Zemler, R. Bitner, A. Szczepkowski and P. Swaczyna.

As Lech Kaczyński later recalled, the Communists did not want to give up their monopoly of youth organizations. Most Polish colleges began a sit-in, and in Kraków, street fights erupted. During the historic semi-free June 1989 elections, the NZS actively helped Solidarity candidates.

The Association was re-legalized on September 22, 1989, when Poland was already ruled by the oppositional government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki. In the 1990s, NZS limited its political activities, concentrating on cultural events, as well as entertainment. Across the years, NZS total membership has been around 180 000. Several of its activists are now public figures - politicians, journalists, businessmen, artists. Among the most prominent are Donald Tusk, Grzegorz Schetyna, Waldemar Pawlak, Cezary Grabarczyk, Bogdan Zdrojewski, Maciej Płażyński, Marek Jurek, Włodzimierz Julian Korab-Karpowicz, Jan Maria Rokita, Maciej Kuroń, Bronisław Wildstein, Marcin Meller, Paweł Piskorski, Adam Bielan, Tadeusz Nowicki.

See also 
Poznań protests of 1956
Polish protests of 1970
1980 Lublin strikes
Rural Solidarity

References

External links 

  

1980 establishments in Poland
Solidarity (Polish trade union)
Student wings of political parties in Poland
Student organizations established in 1980