[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Willie Frazer

ion of a mortar while attacking the station. The station was the target of many such IRA attacks during the Troubles. Frazer stated that "moving the rubble to the GAA club would cause a lot of heartache for many families. The unionist population is small in Pomeroy and they certainly feel betrayed."

In November 2011, after an apology by UUP MLA John McCallister for "unionist failings" in the past (at a Sinn Féin conference in Newry), Frazer reacted furiously. Frazer stated that people were "appalled" by McCallister's remarks.

In May 2012, after seeing the Italian flag being flown as part of a cultural event held in Donaghmore's St Patrick's Primary School and mistaking it for the Irish Tricolour, Frazer accused the school for 4-to-11-year-old children of being "the junior headquarters of SF/IRA youth", stating on Facebook that "I wounder do they also train the children in how to use weapons, for it seems they can do what they wont."(sic) Concerned for the safety of students and the school's reputation, teachers informed police of the accusations and photographs of the school posted by Frazer were later removed from Facebook.

Frazer expressed outrage after his car was stopped and searched by the PSNI in October 2012 under anti-terror laws. He announced his intention to report the incident to his solicitor and the Police Ombudsman. The incident occurred outside Whitecross and Frazer's wallet and documents were taken away for examination. Unknown to police, he made a voice recording on his mobile phone. He had taken photos of the cars the police were in but police removed the camera from Frazer and deleted the images. Police provided no explanation to Frazer as to why the stop and search procedure was undertaken.

Following the 2013 horse meat scandal Frazer gave an interview to The University Times in which he claimed horse meat had actually been introduced to the food chain by the IRA five years before the scandal broke. He also claimed that republicans were behind "old fat cows that are 30 months old" being sold for food before adding that "a blind eye has been turned to it" and that "this is the kind of thing that's going on that we're sick of".

In September 2013 an illegal mobile abattoir was found in Newry. William stated that his "IRA horse burger" claims were now vindicated.
In March 2014 more illegal abattoirs where found by the FSA in Forkhill and Bessbrook.

Frazer's car was set on fire at his home outside Markethill in the early hours of 10 February 2013. Frazer stated that he was asleep inside the house at the time. A passing police patrol noticed the fire but the car was destroyed. Frazer blamed republicans for the incident and claimed to have received a death threat a few hours before the attack. Frazer posted photos to his Facebook page reportedly showing a bullet that was posted to him, however it was pointed out by the satirical web group LAD that the handwriting on the envelope was the same as his own and that the envelope lacked a sorting office stamp.

In September 2013, when brought before court under the serious crime act of 2007, Frazer arrived to court dressed as radical Muslim cleric and terrorist, Abu Hamza. He claimed that this was an act of protest, as the legislation he was being charged under was one he believed to be designed for the conviction of Muslim extremists, and therefore should not have applied to him.

In 2014 Frazer attacked the BBC for having a supposed Gaelic Athletic Association top on the soap EastEnders'' and that "it glorified terrorism" and the IRA. The top in question turned out to be a PE top from a Ballymena  school. When asked if he wanted to apologise for the mistake he refused.

In 2014 Frazer and the Protestant Coalition led a campaign against a teacher at the Boy's Model School when it was revealed she was a member of Sinn Féin, justifying their stance that due to her politics she should not be teaching at the school. She left after weeks of abuse.
In November 2015 he warned of leading a protest at Belfast International Airport, due to a perceived lack of Northern Ireland branded gifts and souvenirs for sale at the airport compared to products advertised as being Irish or from Ireland.

Flag protests
On 3 January 2013 Frazer said that he had contacted the Garda Síochána to inform them that he and some followers would hold a protest in Dublin over the decision by Belfast City Council to reduce the number of days the Union Flag flew above Belfast City Hall. Shortly thereafter he became spokesman of the "interim committee" of the Ulster People's Forum, one of a number of loyalist umbrella groups established to co-ordinate the protests.