[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Night of the Murdered Poets

confess that I was the pope's own nephew and that I was acting on his direct personal orders" after a beating. Another defendant, Boris Shimeliovich, said he had counted over two thousand blows to his buttocks and heels, but he was the only member of the accused who refused to confess to any crimes.

Victims
 Peretz Markish (1895–1952), Yiddish poet, co-founder of the School of Writers, a Yiddish literary school in Soviet Russia
 Dovid Hofshteyn (1889–1952), Yiddish poet
 Itzik Feffer (1900–1952), Yiddish poet, an informer for the Ministry of Internal Affairs
 Leib Kvitko (1890–1952), Yiddish poet and children's writer
 David Bergelson (1884–1952), a distinguished novelist
 Solomon Lozovsky (1878–1952), Director of Soviet Information Bureau, Deputy Commissar of Foreign Affairs, vigorously denounced accusations against himself and others
 Boris Shimeliovich (1892–1952), Medical Director of the Botkin Clinical Hospital, Moscow
 Benjamin Zuskin (1899–1952), assistant to and successor to Solomon Mikhoels as director of the Moscow State Jewish Theater
 Joseph Yuzefovich (1890–1952), a researcher at the Institute of History, Soviet Academy of Sciences, trade union leader
 Leon Talmy (1893–1952), translator, journalist, a former member of the Communist Party USA 
 Ilya Vatenberg (1887–1952), translator and editor of Eynikeyt, newspaper of the JAC; Labor Zionist leader in Austria and the U.S. before returning to the USSR in 1933
 Chaika Vatenberg-Ostrovskaya (1901–1952), wife of Ilya Vatenberg, a translator at JAC. 
 Emilia Teumin (1905–1952), deputy editor of the Diplomatic Dictionary; editor, International Division, Soviet Information Bureau
 Solomon Bregman (1895–1953), Deputy Commissar of Foreign Affairs. Fell into a coma after denouncing the trial, and died in prison five months after the executions 
 Lina Stern (or Shtern) (1875–1968), a biochemist, physiologist and humanist and the first female academician in the Russian Academy of Sciences and is best known for her pioneering work on the blood–brain barrier. She was the only survivor out of the fifteen defendants.

Some who were either directly or indirectly connected to the JAC at the time were also arrested in the years surrounding the trial. Although Solomon Mikhoels was not arrested, his death was ordered by Stalin in 1948. Der Nister, another Yiddish writer, was arrested in 1949, and died in a labour camp in 1950. Literary critic Yitzhak Nusinov died in prison, and journalists Shmuel Persov and Miriam Zheleznova were shot – all in 1950.

Trial
The trial began on 8 May 1952 and lasted until the sentencing on 18 July. The structure of the trial was peculiar due to the fact that there were no prosecutors or defence attorneys, simply three military judges. This was in accordance with Soviet law at the time, but is characterized by historians today as "nothing less than terror masquerading as law." While some defendants admitted their guilt, others plead partially guilty and some maintained their innocence. Since the trial was not public, the defendants made expressive and often lengthy statements professing their innocence. The defendants also had the opportunity to cross-examine each other, furthering the trial's intense atmosphere. During the trial, defendants answered some questions from judges which were wholly unrelated to the trial and resulted merely from personal curiosities. For example, the judges often asked the defendants about kosher meat and synagogue services.

With extensive statements, arguments, and inconsistencies between the defendants, the trial lasted much longer than the government had desired. On 26 June, experts were called to give testimony about the issues of treason, but they ultimately acknowledged that "their judgment was incomplete and insufficient."  It became clear that some pieces of evidence had been tremendously exaggerated. For example, a statement by Leon Talmy that a particular Russian village was "not as pretty" as a certain Kan village was used as evidence of his nationalist tendencies. Alexander Cheptsov, the lead judge of the trial, confronted with such a great number of discrepancies and contradictions, twice made attempts to appeal to the Soviet leadership to reopen the investigation and was denied both times. Even after sentencing the defendants, Cheptsov attempted to lengthen the process by declining to immediately execute the defendants.