[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Israel Project

The Israel Project (TIP) was a US-based 501(c)(3) non-profit, non-government organization. According to TIP, it was not affiliated with any government, and according to its website, it had a team with decades of experience in media, government, policy institutes, research, academia and the military. TIP had offices in the United States and Israel, and regularly hosted press briefings featuring Israeli spokespeople and analysts.

According to TIP, its extensive Arabic media program had 1.2 million Arabic-speaking subscribers on TIP Arabic's Facebook page "Israel Uncensored". Despite the success, a new TIP management team in 2014 decided to drop the Arabic program, which went independent as Al-Masdar. Al-Masdar subsequently closed in April, 2019.

History
The Israel Project was founded by Jennifer Laszlo Mizrahi, Margo Volftsun, and Sheryl Schwartz in 2003. Mizrahi served as its president until 2012 when Josh Block took over as CEO and President. Initially started to change US and European perceptions of Israel, it had worked in English, French, German, Spanish, Russian, Arabic, and Chinese to reach a global audience. However, from the end of 2012, TIP decided to shut down its 'Global Affairs' unit to focus more on social media outreach and perceptions in both the U.S. and Israel. As of late 2016, its board of advisors included 36 Democratic and Republican members of the United States House of Representatives and United States Senate. TIP operated offices in Washington, D.C., and Jerusalem.

TIP was the first Jewish or pro-Israel group to host Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad the United States.

In July 2019, Haaretz reported that TIP could soon cease to exist due to a funding crisis. A month later, its offices in both Jerusalem and Washington were closed, with Vice President Lion Weintraub citing polarization among Zionists as the reason.

Activities

Press information
TIP conducted polling and public opinion research with US focus groups and advised Israeli experts and political leaders on the most effective factual ways to present their views to US audiences: "We share [our] information with all the political leaders across the political spectrum because they're the ones being interviewed on television" TIP also provided information to journalists by offering background material, press conferences, and one-on-one interviews with these experts and political figures, such as Shimon Peres. TIP has supplied information for thousands of news stories around the world, as part of their "pro-Israel media advocacy" efforts. TIP also bought commercial time to air pro-Israel advertising on CNN, MSNBC, Fox News and other cable networks.

According to the organization's website, "TIP informs, providing facts, access to experts and keen analysis. It offers real-time background information, images, maps, audio, video, graphics and direct access to newsmakers. TIP organizes press briefings and speaker tours, conference calls and educational trips, supports non-profit journalism, conducts public affairs research and adheres to the highest possible standards of accuracy and reliability." TIP also distributes a daily newsletter, the Daily TIP, which provides updates and insights on events in the region.

TIP's President and CEO, Josh Block, a former official in the Clinton Administration and spokesman for AIPAC, published an op-ed in 2016 critical of the "increasingly isolationist wing of the Democratic party", which he called "neo-progs".

The Tower 
In 2013, TIP launched The Tower Magazine and TheTower.org. The Tower Magazine is a long-form online magazine published monthly, while TheTower.org is a live-updated news site covering facts and analysis about events affecting Israel and the Middle East. David Hazony serves as editor-in-chief of the publications.

The Tower Tomorrow Fellowship 
Every year, The Israel Project offers the opportunity for college and graduate school students to participate in a media internship program. The fellows undergo intensive training, working with leading journalists and communications professionals to gain the out-of-classroom experience necessary to secure post-graduate career opportunities. Throughout the nine-week program, fellows participate in all aspects of The Israel Project, from writing articles for publication to conducting interviews and organizing press events.

Helicopter tours