[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dermot O'Hurley

oing everything he possibly could to save Archbishop O'Hurley from the executioners. Other more recent historians, however, believe that the Earl of Ormond may secretly have colluded with Baron Slane and played just as central of a role in arranging the Archbishop's arrest.

Imprisonment and torture

On 8 October 1583 Archbishop O'Hurley was handed over by Baron Slane to Lord Justices Wallop and Loftus and imprisoned in Dublin Castle. Under orders from both Loftus and Wallop, Edward Waterhouse, a senior member of the Irish Privy Council, conducted a series of interrogations of the Archbishop between 8 and 20 October 1583. The Archbishop admitted that he had been asked by the Cardinal Protector of Ireland to deliver sealed letters to the Rebel Earl and the other leaders of the Second Desmond Rebellion. O'Hurley explained, however, that he had chosen to leave those letters in France, as, "he would not meddle", in matters other than his religious mission, which, as he repeated insisted, was purely a peaceful one. Finding these results unsatisfactory, Loftus and Wallop wrote to Sir Francis Walsingham on 20 October 1583, seeking further instructions. 

In his response, Walsingham ordered both Justices to use, "torture or any other severe manner of proceeding" against the Archbishop, "to gain his knowledge of all foreign practices against Her Majesty's States."

In response, Loftus and Wallop wrote back upon 10 December that they lacked the necessary instruments of torture and recommended instead that Archbishop O'Hurley be transferred to the Tower of London. Instead, Walsingham ordered them to extract information from O'Hurley, "not only of any practice or disturbance pretended against the Land in particular, but also of any foreign conspiracy against Her Majesty in England or any other part of her dominions". Loftus and Wallop were ordered to try gentle persuasion at first, but if that failed, to "put him to the torture... which was to toast his feet against the fire with hot boots."

According to Philip O'Sullivan Beare, "First he was brought before Adam, the Chancellor, and Henry, the Treasurer, and civilly and kindly invited to follow the tenets of the heretics, and promised large rewards on condition of abjuring his sacred character; relinquishing the office received from the Pope, and (O villainy!) entering upon the Archbishopric under the Queen's authority. He told them that he was bound and resolved never to desert the Church, Faith, or Vicar of Christ Jesus for any consideration. Then the Chancellor and Treasurer endeavoured to deceive him by cunning arguments, straining every nerve to establish the truth of their falsehoods. Dermot, not relishing this, especially as he was not allowed to reply to their nonsense, bade them, stupid and ignorant men (such was his high spirit), not to offer ridiculous and false doctrines to him, an Archbishop, and Doctor of celebrated academies. Then the heretics, filled with anger, exclaimed: 'If we cannot convince you by argument, we will make you quit this your false law and embrace our religion, or feel our power.'"

On 7 March 1584, Archbishop O'Hurley was accordingly subjected to the boiling boot by Edward Waterhouse. His bare feet were imprisoned in iron boots, filled with oil and water, that were slowly heated over a fire until the water boiled away both skin and flesh left the Archbishop's bones partially exposed. To the even greater fury of Loftus and Wallop, however, O'Hurley refused to embrace Protestantism, "confess" to any political offenses, and still stubbornly declined to "cooperate" in framing the Earl of Ormond for high treason against the Queen. Instead, Archbishop O'Hurley was heard to repeatedly cry out, "Jesus, Son of David, have mercy upon me"! 

After the torture was finally ceased on fear that the executioner might be punished for accidentally killing the Archbishop without orders, O'Hurley was returned to his cell inside Dublin Castle and received medical treatment from a fellow priest named Fr. Charles MacMorris. 

When the Archbishop had recovered enough to sit up and to limp a little, the Queen's officials sent visitors into Dublin Castle, including Thomas Jones, the Anglican Bishop of Meath, offering O'Hurley a high position within the Church of Ireland hierarchy in return for taking the Oath of Supremacy. Even his only sister, Honora Ni Hurley, according to David Rothe "was induced to go in and tempt him to apostatise and she urgently besought him to yield; but he, frowning on her, ordered her to fall at his knees and humbly beg pardon of God and absolution for so grave a crime against God, so hurtful to her own soul, and so abhorred by her brother."