[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# La Bandera (film)

that he killed a man, and says that he has given up his notion of escape with Aisha.  Lucas tells Gilieth that he will surely be sleeping in jail that very night.  Gilieth then shows two cartridges, telling him that he will first shoot Lucas and then himself during combat which will take place soon.

As the men finish their talk, they hear the horn from their crew to take places.  An unexpected uprising needs to be put down, for which task both Gilieth's and Lucas' banderas will be required.   No legionnaire wants to volunteer to be one of the twenty-four who are to hold a small outpost in advance of the main force, until the captain says that he will command it himself. Immediately they all step forward, except Lucas, who pauses a moment. The sergeant then picks the first twelve on the left and on the right, which includes the main cast.

The scene which follows has many of the stereotypes of this genre, of which the most important is that no Moroccan combatant is ever depicted; they are presented as supremely concealed snipers. Plot elements involve poisoned water and men who try to get to a safe supply but who only get shot for their valor.  A fighter plane appears and several of the unit get shot either by "friendly fire" or, as the legionnaires surmise, by an enemy pilot.  Captain Weller, sensing he only has a few minutes to live, tells Gilieth to take over.  At this point Lucas informs Captain Weller, that he is a police spy as shown on his identification card. The captain is furious, and tells him to leave the men alone, and that as he is not a real legionnaire; he should depart if he should survive.  Shortly after, the captain dies of heat stroke and exhaustion.  The only two who remain are Gilieth and Lucas, as the main force charges up the hill, their machine guns blazing to sweep the enemy from their positions.

Yet at this moment of victory, Gilieth gets shot by a sniper, leaving Lucas to answer the roll call of the twenty-four with "Killed in action" for all except for Gilieth, who was "Promoted on the battlefield to corporal and killed in action".  He himself is "Present".  Returning to Aisha, he gives her back her coin, saying that Gilieth died thinking about her.

Reception
Writing for The Spectator in 1935, Graham Greene praised the film, calling it "an intelligent melodrama saved from triteness by the character of the police spy". Greene particularly praised the "effective opening" scene of the film, offering it as "an excellent illustration of the main advantage the film possesses over the ordinary stage play; the means it has to place the drama in its general setting" – an advantage Greene attributed to the "exactitude and vividness" of the camera when compared to prose.

The film was the most popular non-English talking movie shown in Australia.

References

External links
 

1935 films
French drama films
1930s French-language films
Films directed by Julien Duvivier
1935 drama films
Films set in Paris
Films set in Barcelona
Films set in deserts
Films set in Morocco
French black-and-white films
Films based on French novels
Films shot at Joinville Studios
1930s French films