[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# USS Indianola

USS Indianola was a casemate ironclad that served as a river gunboat for the Union Navy during the American Civil War.  A side-wheel steamer also equipped with two screw propellers, Indianola was built in Cincinnati, Ohio in 1862 by Joseph Brown before being taken by Union authorities while still incomplete, in response to a perceived Confederate threat to Cincinnati.  After completion, the vessel briefly served on the Mississippi River and the Yazoo River before being sent downstream of Vicksburg, Mississippi in February 1863, to support the naval ram USS Queen of the West, which was operating against Confederate shipping.

After Queen of the West was disabled and captured by Confederate forces, Indianola briefly blockaded the Red River before retreating upriver after learning that the Confederates intended to attack her.  On February 24, Indianola was attacked by the repaired Queen of the West and the ram CSS William H. Webb.  After being rammed several times and badly damaged, Indianola ran aground and was captured.  After learning that the Confederates were attempting to salvage the wreck, Union forces constructed and sent a dummy ironclad downriver, which bluffed the Confederates into destroying the wreck.  The remains of Indianola were raised in January 1865 and sold later that month.

Construction and characteristics

On April 30, 1862, shipbuilder Joseph Brown of Cincinnati, Ohio, signed a contract with the United States government to build Indianola for $128,000. The vessel was named for the city of Indianola, Iowa. On September 1, Brown reported that Indianola was nearing completion.  She was still under construction when Major General E. Kirby Smith's Confederate States Army troops occupied Covington, Kentucky.  This movement was viewed as a threat to Cincinnati by Union Major General Lew Wallace, who appropriated the incomplete vessel to expedite its construction from Brown on September 2 and launched it on September 4.  Fourteen days later, Acting Master Edward Shaw was appointed to command the ship, which had been placed into commission by September 27.  While armed and prepared to defend Cincinnati by October 23, Indianola was still incomplete.  She was returned to Brown once the threat posed by Smith was gone.  By December, the ship was ready for general service, but the level on the Ohio River was too low at that time for Indianola to make it across the Falls of the Ohio.  On January 23, 1863, the ship joined the Mississippi Squadron, having arrived at Cairo, Illinois.  It had cost a total of $182,662.56 to complete the ship.

Indianola was a casemate ironclad serving as a river gunboat.  She was a side-wheel steamer propelled by two wheels and two screw propellers.  The propellers required machinery that took up space that would have otherwise been used for crew quarters.  Her length was  or  with a beam of  or  and a draft of ; she displaced 511 tons.  Indianola had a speed of either  or .  The vessel was armed with four smoothbore Dahlgren guns: two  pieces and two .  These guns were poorly positioned to only fire effectively to the fore and aft and had a slow rate of fire.  The 11-inch guns were forward on the vessel and were mounted on pivots, while the 9-inch guns fired through ports.  She was protected by  of iron plating serving as armor.  Her complement was about 100 crew. Overall, the ship was similar to another Brown ship, USS Chillicothe, except for its propulsion system.

Service history
Indianola originally served on the Mississippi River and the Yazoo River.  During the Vicksburg campaign, Union Navy Rear admiral David Dixon Porter ordered the naval ram USS Queen of the West down the Mississippi to intercept Confederate shipping on the stretch of the river between Vicksburg, Mississippi, and Port Hudson, Louisiana.  Queen of the West travelled downriver past the Vicksburg guns on February 2, 1863, and operated there until February 5.  The ram later made a second trip, and entered the Red River on February 14.  Indianola was now under the command of Lieutenant Commander George Brown.  The day before, Indianola left her moorings at the Yazoo at 22:15 with two barges loaded with coal strapped to her sides and steamed south under fire from the Vicksburg defenses.  She was to join Queen of the West in her operations downstream.  After passing the Confederate positions, Indianola anchored below Warrenton, Mississippi for the night and resumed the movement south.  She had been chosen for the operation because her engines would allow her to make a speed of  upstream against the current, which was much faster than Porter's other ironclads, meaning that Indianola would better be able to escape upriver in case of an emergency.