[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in Georgia (country)

ert Colville, a spokesman for the United Nations human rights office in Geneva, urged Georgia to "promptly, impartially and effectively" investigate all cases of abuse and take steps "to ensure that prisons and detention centers are managed in line with international human rights law and standards."

The questions from human rights organizations worldwide come on the heels of international concerns about free and fair elections in Georgia in 2012.

2013 release of political prisoners
On January 13, 2013 190 people designated political prisoners by the Parliament of Georgia were released from prison under an amnesty law sponsored by Georgian Dream legislators which passed in 2012 over the veto of out-going President Mikheil Saakashvili.

Anti-LGBT riots and counter protests

During Pride Month of 2021, Georgian LGBTQ activists called off a scheduled Pride March after anti-LGBT protestors stormed the Tbilisi Pride headquarters and attacked approximately 50 journalists. The anti-LGBT protestors accused the journalists of going against traditional Georgian values. Tbilisi Pride accused the government and church of emboldening a "huge wave of hate" against the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community and failing to protect citizens' rights. 

Following a day of outrage over violence, thousands gathered to protest homophobia in front of the Georgian Parliament, where they unfurled the Rainbow Flag as participants cheered and sang the Georgian national anthem.

In total, the Georgian government arrested 102 people in relation to the anti-LGBT riots; 68 of these were subsequently released on bail and the rest were left in custody pending trial. On 9 July 2021, Tbilisi City Court denied bail and ordered pre-trial detention of 4 additional members of the violent group. During a preliminary hearing, the judge determined that the actions of these anti-LGBT activists "in addition to being criminal, undermine the stability of the state. They are dark and shameful..."

Historical situation
The following chart shows Georgia's ratings since 1991 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is "free"; 7, "not free".

See also

Internet censorship and surveillance in Georgia
LGBT rights in Georgia (country)
2021 attack on Tbilisi Pride
Sandro Girgvliani Murder Case

Notes
1.Note that the "Year" signifies the "Year covered". Therefore the information for the year marked 2008 is from the report published in 2009, and so on.
2.As of January 1.

References

External links
UN OHCHR page on Georgia
HumanRights.ge – daily updated online magazine and web portal on human rights in Georgia
Have the rights of religious minorities improved?
US State department's International religious freedom report, 2005.
HRW Human Rights overview
Human Rights Watch, Georgia
Censorship in Georgia - IFEX
IDP Voices - Read and listen to life stories from displaced people in Georgia.
 Chkheidze, Ketevan: "Gender Politics in Georgia" in the Caucasus Analytical Digest No.21