[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# BaD Radio Show

dity.

Gay or Not Gay
Bob and Dan ask the hypothetical question, “is this gay, or not gay?”, based on descriptions of situations submitted by listeners. The bit is a tribute to broadcasters Opie and Anthony, who originated it. Due to political correctness, the bit name has changed to Gonk or Ragonk.

Ask Sports Sturm
Bob reviews questions, submitted by listeners, which cover unusual or challenging sports topics.

What's on my Tivo
Bob and Dan discuss TV shows of the day based on the contents of their DVRs.

Guest Booking League (GBL)
During the summer sports lull, after hockey and basketball end, a draft of potential future guests is conducted. In order to level the playing field, Hollywood A-listers are placed in a category separate to that of the more bookable personalities. This is commonly a venue the show utilizes to recall memorable film and TV characters (ex. The Oh Face Guy from Office Space and Jon Gries from Napoleon Dynamite) and to learn what the actors who portrayed them are doing now.  Rather than crowning a league champion, the show institutes a punishment for the two lowest point totals. Past punishments have included going to a Dallas Stars game in full medieval knight's costume and skydiving.

1920s Reporter Guy – Scoops Callahan
Tom Gribble takes on a persona of a cub reporter from the 1920s, complete with 1920s lingo. This character is commonly referred to as Scoops Callahan. The character asks legitimate questions in an unconventional way, typically at the end of a sports press conference.

Irv and Joe Game
On road trips, BaD Radio competes to see who can pirate the most airtime off of a local radio station by posing as a caller. Extra seconds are awarded for changing topics, working in ticket host names and dropping in a "baby arm".

References

External links
The Ticket
Bob, Donovan and Dan's official web page
Bob Sturm's Blog
BaD Radio Podcast
Sports By Brooks reports on ESPN'S Lee Corso cracking up on Dallas Radio
Unofficial Official BaD Radio forum

American sports radio programs