[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1925 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1925 in New Zealand.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
 Head of State – George V
 Governor-General – Sir Charles Fergusson

Government
The 21st New Zealand Parliament concludes, with its final year marked by the death of premier William Massey. The Reform Party governs as a minority with the support of independents. Following the general election in November, the Reform Party holds a much stronger position with 55 of the 80 seats.
 Speaker of the House – Charles Statham
 Prime Minister – William Massey until 10 May, then Francis Bell from 14 to 30 May, then Gordon Coates
 Minister of Finance – William Massey until 10 May, then William Nosworthy from 14 May
 Minister of External Affairs – Francis Bell

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition – Thomas Wilford (Liberal Party) until 13 August, then George Forbes (Liberal) until 4 November, then vacant (until June 1926)

Judiciary
 Chief Justice – Sir Robert Stout

Main centre leaders
 Mayor of Auckland – James Gunson, succeeded by George Baildon
 Mayor of Wellington – Robert Wright, succeeded by Charles Norwood
 Mayor of Christchurch – James Flesher, succeeded by John Archer
 Mayor of Dunedin – Harold Tapley

Events 

 1 January
 National scheme for vehicle registration plates comes into force
 Ernest Rutherford is appointed to the Order of Merit
 21 April – Alfred Averill succeeds Churchill Julius as Archbishop of New Zealand
 10 May – Prime Minister William Massey dies in office
 31 May – Tahupotiki Wiremu Rātana announces his intention to form the Rātana Church
 17 June – The Franklin by-election, caused by the death of William Massey, is won by Ewen McLennan (Reform)
 August – The U.S. Navy's Pacific battlefleet of 57 vessels including 12 battleships visits New Zealand during a goodwill tour of the South Pacific after manoeuvres off Hawaii.
 3–4 November – The 1925 general election is held, with the Reform Party winning 55 of the 80 seats in the House of Representatives
 4 November – An Order in Council provides for the transfer of Tokelau from the Gilbert and Ellice Islands colony to New Zealand (formally gazetted 11 February 1926)
 17 November – The New Zealand and South Seas International Exhibition opens at Logan Park, Dunedin
 Undated – Lloyd Mandeno develops the single-wire earth return electrical distribution system

Arts and literature
See: 1925 in art, 1925 in literature, 
 Allen Adair published by Jane Mander

Music
See: 1925 in music

Radio
See: Public broadcasting in New Zealand
 The Radio Broadcasting Company (RBC) began broadcasts throughout New Zealand

Film
See: 1925 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:1925 films
 Rewi's Last Stand by Rudall Hayward
 The Adventures of Algy
 The Romance of Hinemoa

Sport

Chess
 The 34th National Chess Championship is held in Nelson, and is won by C. J. S. Purdy of Sydney

Football
 The Chatham Cup is won by YMCA (Wellington)
 Provincial league champions:
 Auckland – Thistle
 Canterbury – Sunnyside
 Hawke's Bay – Whakatu
 Nelson – Thistle
 Otago – Northern
 South Canterbury – Rangers
 Southland – Central
 Taranaki –  Manaia
 Wanganui – Eastown Workshops
 Wellington – YMCA

Golf
 The 15th New Zealand Open championship is won by Ewen MacFarlane, an amateur, with an aggregate of 308
 The 29th National Amateur Championships are held at Christchurch (men) and Miramar (women)
 Men – Tom Horton (Masterton)
 Women – Phyllis Dodgshun (Dunedin)

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup – Ahuriri
 Auckland Trotting Cup – Nelson Derby

Thoroughbred racing
 New Zealand Cup – The Banker
 Avondale Gold Cup – Star Ranger
 Auckland Cup – Rapine
 Wellington Cup – Surveyor
 New Zealand Derby – Runnymede

Lawn bowls
The national outdoor lawn bowls championships are held in Wellington.
 Men's singles champion – J. D. Best (Dunedin Bowling Club)
 Men's pair champions – C. W. Davis, J. W. Sexton (skip) (Newtown Bowling Club)
 Men's fours champions – H. J. Wernham, F. T. Wilson, A. C. McIntyre, R. N. Pilkington (skip) (Hamilton Bowling Club)

Rugby union
 The All Blacks tour New South Wales
 The Auckland Rugby Union makes Eden Park its headquarters
  defends he Ranfurly Shield for the third consecutive full season, defeating Wairarapa (22–3),  (24–18),  (31–12),  (28–3),  (20–11) and  (34–14)

Births

January
 4 January – Roger Drayton, politician
 12 January – Allan Burnett, anarchist activist
 13 January – Elwyn Welch, ornithologist
 22 January – Harata Solomon, Māori leader, entertainer
 25 January – Eric Dempster, cricketer
 26 January – Barbara Heslop, immunologist