[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 81]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

that certainly
Mr Barlow "did not know what they were about, or he would have prevented
such poor weak old men from fatiguing themselves about what they never
could perform." "Do you think so?" replied Harry; "what would you then
say, if you were to see me, little as I am, perform this wonderful task,
with the assistance of one of these good people?" So he took up a wooden
mallet--an instrument which, although much larger, resembles a
hammer--and began beating the root, which he did for some time, without
making the least impression. Tommy, who imagined that, for this time,
his friend Harry was caught, began to smile, and told him, "that he
would break a hundred mallets to pieces before he made the least
impression upon the wood."

"Say you so?" answered Harry, smiling; "then I believe I must try
another method;" so he stooped down, and picked up a small piece of
rough iron, about six inches long, which Tommy had not before observed,
as it lay upon the ground. This iron was broad at the top, but gradually
sloped all the way down, till it came to a perfect edge at bottom. Harry
then took it up, and with a few blows drove it a little way into the
body of the root. The old man and he then struck alternately with their
mallets upon the head of the iron, till the root began to gape and crack
on every side, and the iron was totally buried in the wood.

"There," said Harry, "this first wedge has done its business very well;
two or three more will finish it." He then took up another larger wedge,
and, inserting the bottom of it between the wood and the top of the
former one, which was now completely buried in the root, began to beat
upon it as he had done before. The root now cracked and split on every
side of the wedges, till a prodigious cleft appeared quite down to the
bottom. Thus did Harry proceed, still continuing his blows, and
inserting new and larger wedges as fast as he had driven the former
down, till he had completely effected what he had undertaken, and
entirely separated the monstrous mass of wood into two unequal parts.

Harry then said, "here is a very large log, but I think you and I can
carry it in to mend the fire; and I will show you something else that
will surprise you." So he took a pole of about ten feet long, and hung
the log upon it by a piece of cord which he found there; then he asked
Tommy which end of the pole he chose to carry. Tommy, who thought it
would be most convenient to have the weight near him, chose that end of
the pole near which the weight was suspended, and put it upon his
shoulder, while Harry took the other end. But when Tommy attempted to
move, he found that he could hardly bear the pressure; however, as he
saw Harry walk briskly away under his share of the load, he determined
not to complain.

As they were walking in this manner, Mr Barlow met them, and seeing poor
Tommy labouring under his burthen, asked him who had loaded him in that
manner. Tommy said it was Harry. Upon this, Mr Barlow smiled, and said,
"Well, Tommy, this is the first time I ever saw your friend Harry
attempt to impose upon you; but he is making you carry about three times
the weight which he supports himself." Harry replied, "that Tommy had
chosen that himself; and that he should directly have informed him of
his mistake, but that he had been so surprised at seeing the common
effects of a lever, that he wished to teach him some other facts about
it;" then shifting the ends of the pole, so as to support that part
which Tommy had done before, he asked him, "if he found his shoulder
anything easier than before." "Indeed, I do," replied Tommy, "but I
cannot conceive how; for we carry the same weight between us which we
did before, and just in the same manner." "Not quite in the same
manner," answered Mr Barlow; "for, if you observe, the log is a great
deal farther from your shoulder than from Harry's, by which means he
now supports just as much as you did before, and you, on the contrary,
as little as he did when I met you." "This is very extraordinary
indeed," said Tommy; "I find there are a great many things which I did
not know, nor even my mamma, nor any of the fine ladies that come to our
house." "Well," replied Mr Barlow, "if you have acquired so much useful
knowledge already, what may you expect to do in a few years more?"

Mr Barlow then led Tommy into the house, and showed him a stick of about
four feet long, with a scale hung at each end. "Now," said he, "if you
place this stick over the back of a chair, so that it may rest exactly
upon the middle, you see the two scales will just balance each other.
So, if I put into each of them an equal weight, they will still remain
suspended. In this method we weigh every thing which is bought, only,
for the greater convenience, the beam of the scale, which is the same
thing as this stick, is generally hung up to something else by its
middle. But let us now move the stick, and s