[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joe Moore (politician)

nstituents to join him at a local restaurant, pub, or festival twice a month after work on a Friday to promote local businesses and entrepreneurs in his Ward. The events have grown in popularity and have facilitated a recent surge in private business growth in Roger's Park.

Participatory Budgeting 

Moore became the first elected official in the United States to introduce a democratic budget allocation procedure known as participatory budgeting. Each year since 2009, Moore has turned over $1 million of his discretionary capital budget to a process of democratic deliberation and decision-making in which his constituents decide through direct vote how to allocate his budget. Moore's participatory budgeting model has since been adopted by eight of his Chicago City Council colleagues, as well as in 16 other U.S. cities, including New York City, Seattle, Boston, San Francisco and Vallejo, California. Over the past 9 years the 49th Ward constituents have voted to allocate Moore's discretionary capital budget to a wide array of projects ranging from resurfacing alleys and streets to beautifying the neighborhood through the creation of murals and planting of trees throughout the neighborhood.

Affordable Housing 
In 2016, Moore worked with a private developer and the CHA to construct 65 units of affordable housing and 46 market rate units above a new Target on North Sheridan Road. In 2017, Moore helped a developer secure City of Chicago Low Income Housing Tax Credits to build 54 affordable housing units on top of 3,300 square feet of retail storefront space at Clark and Estes. In 2018, Moore convinced the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) to purchase Levy House at 1221 W. Sherwin, thus preserving 56 units affordable senior housing.

Moore has actively opposed an elected school board in City Council, maneuvering to block a ballot measure.

Despite 49th ward residents voting overwhelmingly to freeze charter school expansion, Moore has ignored his constituents and continued to push for more charters  as he collects campaign donations from Charter operators.

Rogers Park's schools have suffered under Moore, to the point of Gale Elementary's major issue with lead contamination  Since 1993, only $81.5 million for improvements to Roger's Park schools have been allocated by CPS, including modernization efforts at Sullivan High School, and a $5 million investment for a new roof at Kilmer School.

Community Outreach and Annual Events 

Throughout his time as Alderman, Moore has overseen the creation of a number of annual events held in Rogers Park. One the oldest of these annual events is the Rogers Park Back to School Picnic which is held on the last Sunday of every August. The picnic has grown considerably since its founding in 1991 to include activities directed at a wide audience such as face painting, live music, bingo, and bouncy castles in addition to free food and school supplies.

Also founded by Moore, is the 49th Ward Annual Spring Clean-up and Taste of Roger's Park. Normally held on the Saturday before Earth Day, the annual clean-up brings together volunteers from across the neighborhood who either choose clean-up and/or beautification projects they wish to undertake or are directed by Alderman's office to areas of the Ward that need cleaning. At the end of the day participants are then given free food from restaurants around the ward to help promote local business growth.

Additionally Moore has also overseen the creation and implementation of several other annual (sometimes biannual) events listed in the table below.

National Recognition 
During Moore's tenure, Rogers Park and Alderman Moore himself have garnered national recognition and attention. In 2008, John Nichols, Washington, D.C. correspondent for The Nation, blogging on The Nation website, named Moore "Most Valuable Local Official." Also, In its July 2016 cover story, Time included Participatory Budgeting (pioneered by Moore) as one of the "240 reasons to celebrate America right now." Additionally, a national real estate website named Rogers Park as the top neighborhood in Chicago and one of the top neighborhoods in the nation for "living well." The website, Trulia, conducted a survey of 877 neighborhoods across the U.S., and named Rogers Park the 11th best neighborhood to live in the nation for staying active and healthy, ahead of all other Chicago neighborhoods.

In addition to serving as Alderman of the 49th Ward, Moore is a former chair of the Board of Directors of the Democratic Municipal Organization, a national association of elected municipal officials, with offices in his home in Rogers Park. Moore's wife, Barbara, is the Executive Director.

Foie gras ban