[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Atlantis Paradise Island

Atlantis Paradise Island is an ocean-themed resort on Paradise Island in the Bahamas. It is built around Aquaventure, a  waterscape. Paradise Island Hotel and Casino is located on Paradise Island, an island in the Bahamas.

Property history 
The property was originally part of the Paradise Island Hotel and Casino, which opened in 1968. It was owned by Resorts International, a Merv Griffin company. Previously, Donald Trump owned a majority stake in Resorts International, spinning off ownership of the Trump Taj Mahal property from the company and selling Resorts International in full, including outstanding debts from the Taj Mahal construction, to Griffin. Paradise Island was purchased by South African hotel magnate Sol Kerzner and Kerzner International Limited in 1994, and Kerzner's new resort, consisting of the Coral Towers and the previously built The Beach Tower, opened officially on December 11, 1998. The property's name was changed to Atlantis when The Royal Towers was built. The Coral Towers and The Beach Tower were later refurbished to match the theme of the Royal Towers. On March 28, 2007, a 600-suite luxury hotel named The Cove Atlantis opened on Paradise Island. Another tower, the 497-room The Reef, opened on December 19, 2007.

As of July 2014, the property is owned and operated by Brookfield Hospitality. In October 2014, Atlantis, Paradise Island became a member of Marriott Bonvoy, a loyalty program for guests to earn or redeem Marriott Bonvoy points at Atlantis.

Design and construction
The resort includes water park attractions and a 7,100-yard golf course. The course features a restaurant and bar. The resort also has a marina designed to dock large yachts. 

The resort hosts a  marine habitat for rescued bottlenose dolphins, sea lions and manta rays.

See also
Atlantis The Palm, Dubai
Atlantis The Royal, Dubai
Atlantis Resorts

References

External links 

Casinos completed in 1998
Hotel buildings completed in 1998
Casinos in the Bahamas
Resorts in the Bahamas
Autograph Collection Hotels
Hotels in the Bahamas
1998 establishments in the Bahamas