[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Beit Hanina

n schools include the Rosary Sisters and De La Salle. College des Freres built a new school in Beit Hanina in 2000. The Catholic Church runs a community center and St. Jacob's Church. In 2012, the Beit Hanina Girls School, serving grades 5-12, was renovated with funding from the Japanese government.

Transportation
The neighbourhood's Main Street, Beit Hanina Road, was previously part of route 60. In the 1990s a new route was built to the east of the neighbourhood, a dual carriageway with 3 lanes in each direction, relieving traffic congestion along the road. The Jerusalem Light Rail has a stop in Beit Hanina.

In 2011, Israel began constructing a road that would link East Jerusalem neighborhoods, including Beit Hanina, to the center of West Jerusalem. According to the Israeli newspaper, Haaretz, "Peace Now representatives argue that the 'road's current route isn't legal, since the plan designates occupied territory for permanent infrastructures for the occupying power, while completely disregarding the needs of the Palestinian residents in Beit Hanina and the area.'"

People connected to Beit Hanina 
Abdel Hamid Shoman, a native of Beit Hanina, founded the Arab Bank. His son, Abdul-Majid Shoman, succeeded his father as the chairman of the Arab Bank in 1974. In 2005, The New York Times reported on the death of Abdul-Majid Shoman and explained that "Mr. Shoman was from a prominent Palestinian family from the West Bank town of Beit Hanina. His father, Abdul-Hamid Shoman, established the first branch of the Arab Bank in Jerusalem in 1930. The bank was a symbol of Palestinian aspirations, representing a drive to create financial institutions for a new nation." According to Lawrence Joffe,"Often Shoman rescued Jordan from fiscal disaster. In 2000 he released funds to support the Jordanian dinar, which had collapsed after King Hussein died."

Guy Delisle depicted his 2008-2009 stay in Beit Hanina in Jerusalem (comics).

In 2010, Akiva Eldar reported in Haaretz that the-then Palestinian Authority prime minister, Salam Fayyad, lived in Beit Hanina. Eldar wrote: "Last Tuesday we accompanied the Palestinian prime minister during his workday as a state-builder. Early in the morning his black Mercedes left the well-guarded villa in the Beit Hanina neighborhood on Jerusalem's northern outskirts. There Fayyad lives with his wife and his younger son, a student at a high school in the city."

Environmental issues 
Since Beit Hanina is an east Jerusalem village, it has the same environmental concerns as the rest of Palestine and Israel. In the journal article,"Scenario Development for 2050 for the Israeli/Palestinian Water Sector," Jonathan Chenoweth describes what can happen as the population increases with regard to water scarcity. Chenoweth states,"Already Israel and Palestine have very low water resources availability compared to the global average (Food and Agriculture Organization, 2004). In the case of Palestine, this water scarcity directly impacts upon daily life and economic activity for much of the population. With rapid population growth in the region and water resources already inadequate, the long-term hydrological future of region appears problematic."

Gallery

References

Bibliography

External links
Palestine Remembered: Welcome To Bayt Hanina
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 17:  IAA, Wikimedia commons
Beit Hanina Town (Fact Sheet), Applied Research Institute–Jerusalem; (ARIJ)
Beit Hanina Town Profile, ARIJ
Beit Hanina aerial photo, ARIJ
Bayt Hanina Al Balad Village (Fact Sheet), ARIJ 
Beit Hanina al Balad Village Profile, ARIJ 
Beit Hanina al Balad aerial photo, ARIJ
 Ethnic Cleansing in Beit Hanina 12, September, 2006, ARIJ
Beit Hanina Town, Israeli Settlements' occupying its land … A wall dissecting its people and a new Bypass Road increases the suffering of its people. 09, April, 2009, ARIJ
Two residential Complexes in Beit Hanina city are notified with demolition 08, March, 2011, ARIJ

Seam Zone
Villages in the West Bank
Jerusalem Governorate
Arab neighborhoods in Jerusalem
Municipalities of the State of Palestine