[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Government House (Saskatchewan)

e Pioneer Village old peoples' home built in 1967, were restored to their Edwardian configuration as a provincial centennial project. Government House is now "a museum of the 1900 period under Lieutenant-Governor Amédée Forget, and a hospitality facility for government and non-profit organizations."

Alleged haunting 
Over the years, several staff and former students have observed strange occurrences at Government House. Doors have been said to open and close repeatedly with no one near, the sound of crying babies and laughing children have been heard late at night with no one around, and others have claimed to see eerie faces next to theirs when looking into mirrors.

One particular apparition of note is "Howie", believed to be Cheun Lee, the former cook of Lieutenant-Governor Archibald McNab. Many believe that his ghost roams the house; his footsteps often heard shuffling through the halls. He even has a say in the interior decorating—witnesses have inexplicably found objects shifted or moved from one room to another.

Photo gallery

See also
 Lieutenant-Governors of Saskatchewan
 Monarchy in Saskatchewan
 Government Houses of Canada
 Government Houses of the British Empire
 Saskatchewan Legislative Building
 Royal eponyms in Canada—locales in Canada named for royalty akin to Queen Elizabeth II Wing at Government Hosue

References

Further reading
Drake, Earl G. Regina, the Queen City. Toronto:  McClelland & Stewart Ltd, 1955.
Hryniuk, Margaret and Pugh, Garth. "A Tower of Attraction" An Illustrated History of Government House, Regina, Saskatchewan. Regina: Canadian Plains Research Center, 1991.

External links 
 Government House website
Listing on Canadian Registry of Historic Places
 Government House Historical Society

Houses completed in 1891
Government buildings completed in 1891
Buildings and structures in Regina, Saskatchewan
Reportedly haunted locations in Saskatchewan
Saskatchewan
National Historic Sites in Saskatchewan
Veterans' hospitals
Schools in Saskatchewan
Museums in Regina, Saskatchewan
History museums in Saskatchewan
Military hospitals in Canada