[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nightmare City

He then rushes to meet a scientist at the airport. But when he arrives, a military plane makes an emergency landing, repeating the events of the film's beginning. "The Nightmare Becomes Reality" indeed.

Cast

Production
The film was shot on location in Madrid, Spain and in Rome's De Paolis Studios.

Themes
Director Umberto Lenzi felt the film was not to be labeled as a zombie film but a "radiation sickness movie" with hints of an anti-nuclear and anti-military message.

Release
Nightmare City was released in Italy in 1980 and in  Germany on December 19, 1980. It was first released in the United States in 1983 under the title City of the Walking Dead.

Reception
From retrospective reviews, Sight and Sound referred to the film as a "spirited, if preposterous, zombie saga" with a "deeply contrived ending". John Kenneth Muir, in his review of 1980s horror cinema, referred to Nightmare City as a "cobbled together disaster". Muir went on to say it's not the worst zombie film of the 1980s which he felt belonged to Hell of the Living Dead. The assistant professor of Louisiana State University Danny Shipka described the film as "absolutely terrible in every way" as well as referring to poor make-up effects, poor acting and a plot that "makes no sense". In the book Zombie Movies: The Ultimate Guide, a review opined that the film is "way too silly to be taken seriously for even the briefest moments" and that it is "not a good movie, but it is a ridiculously good guilty pleasure with some genuine surprises".  In The Zombie Movie Encyclopedia, academic Peter Dendle wrote that the film is "at the best of moments, a forced and pointless test of endurance". Dendle described the zombies as "utterly unconvincing".

Remake
Fangoria announced in 2015 that Tom Savini would be directing a remake of the film. The project raised over $138,000 from fans via Indiegogo and projected a 2016 filming start; however, as of 2023, the film has not gone into production.

See also
List of horror films of 1980
List of Italian films of 1980
List of zombie films

Notes

References

 
 
 Muir, John Kenneth. Horror films of the 1980s. McFarland, 2007. .

External links 
 
 

1980 films
1980 horror films
1980s Italian films
1980s science fiction horror films
1980s Spanish films
Apocalyptic films
Films directed by Umberto Lenzi
Films scored by Stelvio Cipriani
Films set in Rome
Films shot in Madrid
Italian science fiction horror films
Italian splatter films
Italian vampire films
Italian zombie films
Spanish science fiction horror films
Spanish splatter films
Spanish vampire films
Spanish zombie films