[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Monett's Ferry

capture the position. Finding that its flanks could not be turned, Fessenden called for a frontal assault. From right to left were the 165th New York, 173rd New York, 30th Maine, and 162nd New York Infantry Regiments. They advanced across an open field and up the hill against Confederate opposition.

After Birge's outflanking force was detected, General Major assigned Colonel George W. Baylor to take command of the left flank. Baylor's defense line consisted of Colonel George T. Madison's 3rd Texas Cavalry Regiment (Arizona Brigade), Colonel Peter C. Woods' 36th Texas Cavalry Regiment, Colonel Walter P. Lane's 1st Texas Partisan Rangers, and Lieutenant Colonel Benjamin W. Clark's 1st Louisiana State Guards Cavalry Battalion. The infantry were supported by two recently captured rifled guns from McMahan's Texas Battery under Lieutenant Fontaine. Fessenden was hit in the leg and Lieutenant Colonel J. W. Blanchard assumed command. After taking their opponents under brisk fire, Baylor's men fell back and the Union soldiers occupied the hill.

Pushing forward , Blanchard shifted his reserve units, the 13th Connecticut and the 1st Louisiana Infantry Regiments to the right flank. While crossing another open field, Birge, his staff, and some cavalrymen rode forward to reconnoiter a wooded area in front of them. Just as the Union soldiers crossed a deep gully, Baylor's soldiers opened fire. Birge and his party came galloping back, disrupting the infantry formation. Many soldiers started to panic but Colonel William O. Fiske of the 1st Louisiana rallied the men and got them moving forward again. The Union soldiers pressed on and took cover in a ravine. For ten minutes, the Confederates continued firing, but then they suddenly abandoned their position.

Colonel Isham Chisum's 2nd Texas Partisan Rangers and Baylor's 2nd Texas Cavalry Regiment (Arizona Brigade) were shifted to reinforce Baylor's second position. The right flank was anchored on the Cane River, but the left flank did not extend far enough to reach a lake. Some Union troops were seen heading for the open flank, so Baylor ordered Madison's regiment to mount and move to the left to cover the gap. Baylor sent a messenger to Bee asking for two more regiments. Meanwhile, a Union battery on the north side of the Cane River began firing at Fontaine's two guns. At this time, Baylor's messenger returned from Bee stating that Baylor ought to get out of there the best way he could. By this time, most of Bee's command had retreated. Baylor ordered the 2nd Texas (Arizona Brigade) and Fontaine's guns to hold the ferry crossing until the left wing could escape, which was done.

Near the end of the action, Emory sent Closson forward with five guns to suppress Bee's artillery fire. Some Confederates crossed the river in an attempt to capture the guns, but were driven off by the 116th New York Infantry Regiment. Soon after, dismounted troopers of the 2nd New York Veteran Cavalry Regiment and the 116th New York splashed across the Cane River at the ferry and occupied the heights. Worried about Davis' abortive mission downstream and Emory's demonstration in front, as well as Birge's turning movement upstream, Bee had ordered a retreat to Beasley's Plantation. Bee was convinced that both his flanks were enveloped and that Emory was about to overwhelm his position by a frontal assault.

Aftermath

Emory sent three cavalry regiments to pursue Bee's withdrawing troops. In the twilight, the Union horsemen mistakenly chased a small Confederate detachment down the road to Alexandria, rather than follow Bee's main body toward Beasley's on the Fort Jesup road. With the crossing cleared of Confederates, Banks' African-American brigade laid a pontoon bridge across the Cane River, which was ready a little after nightfall. All night long Banks' army crossed the bridge. Wharton's cavalry skirmished with Smith's troops during the morning, but the Confederates pulled back after one hour. The last of Smith's rearguard passed over the bridge at 2:00 pm on 24 April, whereupon the pontoons were taken up. Banks' leading elements arrived at Alexandria on the morning of 25 April. Union losses during the operation numbered 300 men, including 153 from Fessenden's brigade, while Bee only admitted having lost 50 casualties.

Taylor was furious at the escape of Banks' army, which he believed was nearly in a state of panic, and he blamed Bee. In his official report, Taylor listed the errors made by Bee as follows.

In his defense, Bee pointed out that the low-water condition of the Cane River permitted the Union army to outflank his defenses and the immense size of Banks' army meant that "success was impossible". Bagby, Major, and Wharton defended Bee's actions, but Taylor ignored their pleas. He removed Bee from command of his cavalry.