[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sebastian Doggart

p until the last moment, Berscheidt sought to use bureaucratic obstacles and alleged intimidation of students to stop the event. However, the screening and debate did eventually take place, with a strong turn-out, and webcast on both Mogulus television  and through the Amnesty International website.

At a screening at the Starz Denver film festival in December 2009, and again in an interview with Progressive Voice, Doggart called for the prosecution of ten Bush Administration officials: President George W. Bush, Condoleezza Rice (as NSA and chair of the Group of Principals who authorized the torture techniques), Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, Vice-President Dick Cheney, CIA bosses George Tenet and Porter Goss, General Geoffrey D. Miller (commander at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo), Secretary of State Colin Powell, and Attorney Generals John Ashcroft and Alberto Gonzales. In February 2010, Doggart presented a screening of the film at New York's Revolution Books with human rights organizations World Can't Wait and War Criminals Watch. Screenings in Minnesota were also organized by Coleen Rowley, a former FBI agent turned whistle-blower, who called the film "a must-see documentary". The campaign continued through social networking sites and interviews in the press, radio  and on PBS but has so far failed to secure its objective of Rice's arrest, prosecution and imprisonment. Efforts to this end were escalated in May 2010, following the announcement that Rice was to play a concert with Aretha Franklin. Doggart responded to this by corralling a group of human rights activists, including Rowley, War Criminals Watch, and Down With Tyranny, to pressure Franklin and the Philadelphia Orchestra to dump her from the concert billing, and to encourage either a citizen's arrest, or one instigated by Attorney General Eric Holder. These protests continued at a Denver University awards dinner, where Madeleine Albright presented the 2010 Josef Korbel Outstanding Alumni Award to Rice, while activists warned guests outside that "there's a war criminal in the area".

In 2014 and 2015, Doggart was the chief judge on the annual Tackling Torture Video contest.

In 2016, Doggart was appointed President of the New York Families Civil Liberties Union, and 2018 was made Executive Director of the national FCLU.

Writing career
Doggart has had three books published: Fire Blood and the Alphabet: One Hundred Years of Lorca focused on Spanish playwright and poet, Federico García Lorca. The book included poems, translations and an essay by Doggart, as well as eminent Lorca scholars, and was published in a second edition in January 2010. Stage Labyrinths: Latin American Plays included Doggart's translations of five Latin American dramatic works, as well as interviews with the writers and a history of Latin American theater His third book is on the Argentine economy. He has been a principal contributor to five other books – Stages of Conflict: A critical anthology of Latin American theater and Performance (University of Michigan Press, 2008), Purple Homicide: Fear and Loathing on Knutsford Heath (Bloomsbury, 1998), Raymond Chandler: A Biography (Atlantic, 1997), Reflections in a Family Mirror (Red House, 2002), and Time Out: Havana (Penguin, 2001, 2005, 2007) – and has written for New Statesman, The Guardian, The Independent, The Observer, The Telegraph, The Huffington Post  and The Sunday Telegraph.

In 2011, Doggart became a columnist for The Daily Telegraph, writing a twice-monthly column from New York on film, literary, political, family and comedic subjects. column . He also worked as a film reviewer for The Guardian . .

Family
Doggart is the grandson of the eminent ophthalmologist and writer James Hamilton Doggart; son of the author/development economist Caroline Doggart and the international financier and philanthropist Anthony Doggart; brother of the conservationist Nike Doggart; nephew of the cricketer and educator, Hubert Doggart; and cousin of the headmaster, Simon Doggart.

Publications
 Fire, Blood and the Alphabet: One Hundred Years of Lorca, with Michael Thompson, 1999, University of Durham, , second edition 2010
  Latin American Plays, (editor), Nick Hern Books, 1996, 
 Time Out: Havana, (contributor), 2001, 
 Time Out: Havana, (contributor), 2005, 
 Time Out: Havana,  (contributor), 2007, 
 Stages of Conflict: A critical anthology of Latin American theater and Performance, (contributor), University of Michigan Press, 2008, 
 Investment Opportunities in Argentina, 1991, Southern Development Trust, 
 Cary Grant: A Class Apart, Graham McCann, 1998, Columbia University Press, 
 Raymond Chandler: A Biography, Tom Hiney, 1999, Grove Press, 
 Purple Homicide: Fear and Loathing on Knutsford Heath, John Sweeney, 1998, Bloomsbury Press,