[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Greek

re. Nick identifies the Greek in a photo and Sergei is pressured to give up the location of his hotel suite, Vondas and the Greek have already boarded a flight to Chicago. Aware that the Greek and Vondas are gone, the police leave the investigation behind and move on to the drug dealers he supplied.

Seasons four and five
The Greek continues to supply "Proposition Joe" Stewart, who forms an organization with other drug dealers, the New Day Co-Op, to provide the Greek's product to them in exchange for reduced violence and sharing of territory. When Omar Little steals an entire shipment of heroin from the Greek's men as it is being delivered to Stewart's people, Marlo Stanfield demands a meeting with Spiros "Vondas" Vondopoulos in order to allay his fears that Stewart was responsible. Once Stanfield is satisfied, he waits for the Major Crimes Unit's investigation into his activities to cease and then moves to establish a direct relationship with Vondas and the Greek, after getting in communication with Vondas through former soldier Sergei.

Marlo eventually sells himself as Joe's replacement by convincing the Greek that he requires an insurance policy in the form of a replacement for Proposition Joe, in the event that anything should happen to him. Realizing that Stanfield will move against Stewart regardless of his approval, the Greek accepts Marlo's proposal to act as an "insurance policy," knowing that it will mean Joe's death.

After Stewart's murder, Stanfield meets with Vondas to initiate their new business relationship. Stanfield's tenure proves short lived when he is forced into retirement by an investigation, and the other Co-Op members purchase the connection from Stanfield. In the closing montage of the series finale, Slim Charles and Fat-Face Rick take over meeting with Vondas while the Greek listens quietly in the background.

References

The Wire characters
Fictional characters without a name
Fictional crime bosses
Fictional gangsters
Fictional murderers
Fictional smugglers
Fictional Greek people
Television characters introduced in 2003
Drug dealers of The Wire
Shipyard associates of The Wire
Male characters in television
Male villains