[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iowa in the American Civil War

bands—such as the Yankton and Yankonais—and knew their sign, their language, and their customs. Likewise, the 6th Iowa Cavalry and one battalion of the 14th Iowa Infantry were deployed to Forts Randall, Pierre and Berthold, Dakota Territory as part of the same campaigns against the Santee renegades.

Sporadically, Confederate partisans and bushwhackers  raided Iowa. One such incursion in the fall of 1864 was designed to disrupt the reelection of Abraham Lincoln. Near the Missouri border, many Iowans were pro-slavery, anti-Lincoln Confederate sympathizers, and they provided a safe haven for guerrillas. On October 12, 1864, a dozen raiders disguised as Union soldiers terrorized Davis County, where they looted residences and kidnapped and murdered three Iowans near Bloomfield.

Postbellum memorialization

The Keokuk National Cemetery was established as a final resting place for bodies from five local U.S. Army hospitals in Keokuk. It holds over 600 Union soldiers, and 8 Confederate prisoners of war.

Following the war, a number of veterans organizations, and in particular the Grand Army of the Republic, played a prominent role in providing social functions, financial support, and memorialization of the former soldiers. The G.A.R. provided the funds and impetus for the construction of the Iowa Soldiers' Home in Marshalltown and other similar homes and hospitals, as well as orphanages.

See also
 List of Iowa Civil War Units
 Camp McClellan (Iowa)
 Dubuque, Iowa, in the Civil War

Further reading
 Anderson, J. L. "The Vacant Chair on the Farm: Soldier Husbands, Farm Wives, and the Iowa Home Front, 1861–1865," Annals of Iowa (2007) 66: 241–265
 Baker, Thomas R. Sacred Cause of Union: Iowa in the Civil War (2016)
 Bergman, Marvin, ed. Iowa History Reader (1996) essays by scholars.
 Clark, Olynthus B. The Politics of Iowa during the Civil War and Reconstruction (1911)
 Hofsommer, Don L. Steel Trails Of Hawkeyeland: Iowa's Railroad Experience (2005)
 Johnson, Russell L. Warriors into Workers: The Civil War and the Formation of the Urban-Industrial Society in a Northern City (2003) About Dubuque
 Lyftogt, Kenneth L. Iowa and the Civil War. Vol. 1: Free Child of the Missouri Compromise, 1850–1862. Iowa City, IA: Camp Pope Publishing, 2018.  online review.
 Sage, Leland. A History of Iowa (1974) online
 Soike, Lowell J. Busy in the Cause: Iowa, the Free-state Struggle in the West, and the Prelude to the Civil War (U of Nebraska Press, 2014).

External links
 Iowa soldiers' Civil War Diaries and Letters
 Iowa in the Civil War Project
 Civil War letters of Iowans
 The 22nd Iowa Infantry Homepage
 U.S. Army bibliography for Iowa in the Civil War
 Iowa Battleflag Preservation
 History of the 1st Iowa Infantry

 
American Civil War by state