[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Canadian passport

ad who do not have a Canadian guarantor, a non-Canadian guarantor who works in a licensed profession may be used for application, such as a dentist, medical doctor, judge, lawyer, notary public, pharmacist, police officer, veterinarian, or sitting officer for a financial institution.

Passport fees 

The fee (since 1 July 2013) for a standard adult passport issued in Canada is $120 for a five-year passport or $160 for a ten-year passport, and outside of Canada is $190 and $260 respectively. The fee for a five-year passport for a child under 16 is $57 if issued in Canada, and $100 outside of Canada. Additional fees are levied for urgent service or replacement of a lost or stolen passport. All fees are payable in Canadian dollars.

Refusal and revocation of passports 
IRCC may revoke a passport or refuse to issue or renew a passport on grounds set out in the Canadian Passport Order, including such grounds as failure to submit a complete application, misrepresentation in obtaining a passport, and criminality. However, whether a Canadian passport may be revoked or refused on the basis of national security concerns has been questioned.

Types of passports 
Before 1947, there were two types of passports: those issued to people who were born British subjects (navy blue cover) and those issued to people naturalised as British subjects (red cover).

Today, there are five types of Canadian passports:

Regular passport (navy blue cover) These documents are issued to citizens for occasional travel, such as vacations and business trips.  They contain 36 pages (29 pages available for visa labels and stamps). They can be issued to adults (age 16 years and older) with a validity of 5 or 10 years or children under 16 with a validity of 5 years.

Temporary passport (white cover)
 These are issued to Canadian citizens outside Canada who require passports but their regular passport application is being processed. This passport contains 8 pages and is valid between six months and one year.

Emergency travel document (single page)
 Emergency travel documents are one-use documents issued to Canadians for direct return to their home country, or to the nearest Canadian diplomatic mission where full passport services are offered. The document contains details of the person, photo, travel details and expiry date of the document.

Special passport (green cover)These are issued pursuant to the Diplomatic and Special Passports Order to people representing the Canadian government on official business, including Privy Councillors, Members of Parliament, provincial cabinet members, public servants, citizens nominated as official non-diplomatic delegates and Canadian Forces members who are posted abroad. Since January 2009 special passports have been issued as electronic passports, in preparation of the full implementation of the ePassport program.

Diplomatic passport (maroon cover)These are issued pursuant to the Diplomatic and Special Passports Order to Canadian diplomats, high-ranking government officials (including lieutenant governors and commissioners of territories), diplomatic couriers, and private citizens nominated as official diplomatic delegates. Immediate family members of the aforementioned individuals (except diplomatic couriers) who reside with them may be also issued diplomatic passports. Since 2009, diplomatic passports have been issued as electronic passports, in preparation of the full implementation of the ePassport program.  Per the Diplomatic and Special Passports Order, only the Governor General and Prime Minister and their immediate family members may use their diplomatic passports for all types of travel (i.e. official or personal).

Refugee Travel Document (blue cover)
 These documents are issued to refugees in Canada in accordance to the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. Because many refugees are unable to acquire travel documents from their respective state of nationality (from which they have sought asylum) they are eligible to acquire this document so that they might engage in international travel.

Certificate of Identity (grey cover)
 These documents are issued to individuals in Canada in accordance to the 1954 Convention Relating to the Status of Stateless Persons. Which grants individuals who are stateless or permanent residents of Canada to obtain a national passport or travel document.