[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Metropolis (2001 film)

and unwanted by Duke Red. Their stories ultimately converge, coming full circle when they both lead to their father's downfall, with his legacy quite literally collapsing to the ground.

The film's Ziggurat combines the New Tower of Babel from Lang's original film and the manga's Cathedral.

Themes

Portrayal of robots 
The Shinto religion has a delineation between the animate and inanimate. Shinto kami can be spirits, humans, objects, or in this case, robots. Therefore, robots are viewed favorably in both the manga and the film, but especially in the film, where there is a nearly equal number of robot and human characters. Most humans, like Kenichi and Shinsaku Ban, tend to sympathize with robots, causing the audience to view the Marduks and their hostility toward robots as antagonistic.

Cast

Production 
Osamu Tezuka had originally derived inspiration from Fritz Lang's 1927 German silent science fiction film of the same name, despite not actually having seen it. The manga and Lang's film do not share plot elements. The 2001 film borrowed from Lang's film more directly and incorporated plot elements from it.

During the days of Mushi Productions, Hayashi asked Tezuka if he wanted to let him make a feature based on the manga, but immediately rejected the idea.

The film took five years to create. It had a production budget of , then equivalent to roughly 9 million dollars. This made it the most expensive anime film up until then, surpassing Otomo's Akira (1988). In turn, its budget record was later surpassed by Otomo's Steamboy (2004).

Soundtrack 

The Metropolis soundtrack consists mainly of New Orleans-style jazz music and orchestral score composed by Toshiyuki Honda and features Atsuki Kimura's cover of "St. James Infirmary Blues" and the ending theme "There'll Never Be Good-Bye" by Minako "Mooki" Obata. The soundtrack album is available on King Records.

During the film's climactic scene, the song "I Can't Stop Loving You" performed by Ray Charles was used as most of the audio when the Ziggurat was destroyed, with sound effects only audible later on in the scene. Likely due to licensing reasons, the song was not included on the soundtrack album.

Release 
The film was first released in Japan on May 26, 2001. When it was released in the US and other foreign countries by TriStar Pictures and Destination Films, it made a total of  in overseas territories outside of Japan. In the United States, the film was given a PG-13 rating by the MPAA for "violence and images of destruction" and a TV-14-LV rating when it aired on Adult Swim. It was also one of the first anime films to be submitted for consideration for Best Animated Film at the Academy Awards.

Metropolis was first released on VHS, and is now available in North America as both a 2-disc DVD, with the second disc being a MiniDVD (called a "Pocket DVD"), and a Blu-ray.

In both the United Kingdom and Ireland, Eureka Entertainment acquired the film's distribution rights as a means to release the film on Blu-ray in both countries. The UK and Ireland Blu-rays were released on January 16, 2017.

Toho-Towa Distribution, the foreign film distribution division of the film's original Japanese distributor, Toho, also handled the Japanese distribution of the 1927 version of Metropolis.

As the license of the German Metropolis is held by the Friedrich Wilhelm Murnau Foundation, the film was released under the title Robotic Angel.

Reception 
Metropolis received highly positive reviews: based on 67 reviews from Rotten Tomatoes, Metropolis received an overall 87% Certified Fresh approval rating, with an average rating of 7.30/10. The site's critical consensus states that "A remarkable technical achievement, Metropolis' eye-popping visuals more than compensate for its relatively routine story." Metacritic assigned the film a weighted average score of 75 out of 100, based on 16 critics, indicating "generaly favourable reviews".

Film critic Roger Ebert, writing for the Chicago Sun-Times, gave Metropolis four out of four stars, calling it "one of the best animated films I have ever seen."

See also 

 Osamu Tezuka
 Osamu Tezuka's Star System

References

External links 
 Official website (English)
 
 
 
 
 
 

2001 science fiction action films
2000s dystopian films
2001 animated films
2001 films
2001 anime films
Anime films based on manga
Animated films about robots
Animated films set in the future
Cyberpunk anime and manga
Dieselpunk films
Drama anime and manga
Dystopian films
Films about artificial intelligence
Films about cities
Films based on works by Osamu Tezuka
Films directed by Rintaro
Japanese adult animated films
Japanese animated science fiction films
Japanese drama films
Japanese science fiction action films
Madhouse (company)
Steampunk anime and manga
Steampunk films
Works based on Metropolis (1927 film)
TriStar Pictures films
TriStar Pictures animated films
Animated films about discrimination
2000s American films
Destination Films films