[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ignacio Hidalgo de Cisneros

own request Hidalgo was recalled from Rome and assigned to cartographic section of General Staff, where he used to show up every day with a fresh issue of El socialista ostentatiously on display.  Later that year he was assigned to the Seville air base, considered bulwark of the monarchist military.

Following victory of Popular Front Hidalgo de Cisneros was nominated adjutant to Nuñez de Prado, the newly appointed head of the Air Force, later promoted to ADC of the prime minister. He again compiled the list of officers considered reactionary to be purged and was again disappointed by inaction of the minister Giral, the prime minister Cesares Quiroga and the president Azaña. In the early summer of 1936 he tried to prevent an expected rebellion in the air forces by organizing semi-official vigilance service, partially based on socialist and communist conspiracy network. Following the actual coup, once Nuñez de Prado was captured and executed by the rebels, Hidalgo de Cisneros tried to co-ordinate command of the air forces before in September 1936 Prieto, than the new minister of defense, nominated him head of Air General Staff, effectively commander of Fuerzas Aéreas de la República Española.
During his first months in command Hidalgo de Cisneros shuttled the squadrons between airports concentrating aircraft on key Nationalist advance routes, tried to co-ordinate logistics and to make up for the loss of pilots, most of whom opted for the rebels; despite having been head of military aviation, he also flew combat sorties himself. In the fall of 1936 he supervised arrival of Soviet aircraft and airmen. Increasingly perplexed by lack of discipline and chaos among the Republicans, he blamed the anarchists for disorganizing the military effort and the socialists, unwilling to confront FAI and CNT, for appeasement and indecision. Though ignorant about and indeed uninterested in the communist theoretical vision, he appreciated PCE for discipline and military contribution, impressed also by military support provided by the Soviet Union. As a result, at unspecified time in late 1936 Hidalgo de Cisneros joined the PCE.

Communist

Of all branches of the Republican army, the one most thoroughly dominated by the Soviets was the Air Force. As head of aviation Hidalgo de Cisneros was supported by the Russians, who considered him a convenient front man, facilitating their grip on the People's Army. The Republican aviation, "La Gloriosa", was in fact managed by the Russian air attaché Smushkevich, who appreciated Hidalgo for dedication and loyalty, but thought him incompetent for the job. Hidalgo de Cisneros apparently accepted his role of the Soviet assistant; he was hardly informed about operations, status and location of FARE squadrons. Given his role, it is not clear what was his contribution to the rout of Italian forces at Guadalajara in March 1937, arguably the most successful operation of the Republican aviation. However, as Republican air force was entirely controlled by the Russians, some Republican ground operations suffered from lack of air support in case the Soviets decided to obstruct them, like in case of the spring 1938 offensive in Extremadura.

Hidalgo de Cisneros remained totally loyal to the Soviets also when pushing for introduction of political commissars in the army; it is not clear how much he knew about Andreu Nin having been tortured in his Alcala de Henares house, turned into the NKVD dungeons. In December 1937 and in November 1938 he travelled to Moscow, first time officially for medical treatment and the second time as a special last-minute envoy of Negrin. He met Stalin and was impressed by his charming personality, especially that the Soviet leader agreed to deliver the supplies requested. In September 1938 promoted to general, after the fall of Catalonia Hidalgo de Cisneros briefly stayed in France and then returned to the Republican zone. He refused to join Casado's coup and remained loyal to Negrin; on 6 March he left Spain, flying from Elda to Toulouse.