[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# My Uncle Napoleon

vi (Editor)
 Amir Farrokh Tehrani  (Architect, Production Designer and Art Director)
 Eskandar Radfar (Costume Design)
 Abdollah Eskandari ( Make-up Artist)
 Mohsen Taghvai (Assistant Director)
 Valod Aghajanian (Sound Department)
 Yadollah Asgari (Sound Department)
 Hassan Zahedi (Sound Department)

Main characters
 Dear Uncle Napoleon (Daï Jan Napoleon): The patriarch of the family, Dear Uncle is a paranoid, imaginative and delusional character who believes he is in constant conflict with the British and their "lackeys". The title "Uncle Napoleon" is sarcastically given to him by his nieces and nephews due to his admiration and obsession with the French Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte.
 Mash Qasem: Dear Uncle's faithful servant and butler from the small town of Ghiasabad. Strongly devoted to Dear Uncle, we claims to have fought alongside him in numerous battles, the most important of which are the Battle of Mamasani and the Battle of Kazeroun. He's proud of his native town and becomes the messenger between the narrator and Layli at times when the two cannot meet, partly as a favor to the narrator and partly to satisfy his own unbounded inquisitiveness.
 The Narrator (Saeed): The narrator of the story and Dear Uncle's nephew. He remains nameless and rather arcane in the novel despite being the central figure around whom the story develop.
 Agha Joon: The narrator's father, a pharmacist who is the brother-in-law of Dear Uncle.  After years of being ridiculed by Dear Uncle for not belonging to an aristocratic family, he takes his revenge by reinforcing Dear Uncle's delusion that the British are after him.
 Asadollah Mirza: An official in the Foreign Ministry and half brother (through his father's gardener's daughter) of Shams Ali Mirza. A playboy, Asadollah Mirza was once happily married and in love with a woman until she cheated on him and left him. The "Mirza" of his and his brother's name is an honorific which indicates a distant relation to the Qajar royal family. As a result, he is often referred to as "Shahzdeh", or prince.  He becomes a close friend of the narrator during the course of the novel, often trying to help him in his efforts to reach his love.

Supporting characters
 Colonel (Sarhang): Dear Uncle's younger brother, referred to as Colonel by the family. In the final chapter that reveals the fate of characters around 1965, it is revealed he is retired as a "Sargord" (Major), a lower rank than a colonel, and is living with Laily and Puri in the garden.
 Dustali Khan: Dear Uncle's brother-in-law, known for being inept at nearly everything and getting constantly ridiculed of by the other members of the family, especially Asadollah Mirza. His wife tries to cut his penis off with a kitchen knife after finding out that he has cheated on her, and shoots him in the bottom when he impregnates his step daughter.
 Aziz al-Saltaneh: Dustali Khan's wife and Qamar's mother. A cousin of Asadollah and Shams Ali Mirza.
 Dr. Naser al-Hokama: An old family doctor and close friend. He has been married three times. His rudimentary knowledge of medicine is often ridiculed in the book.
 Shams Ali Mirza: The older half brother of Asadollah Mirza. A discharged/retired District Attorney who believes that all problems can be solved by interrogation.
 Layli: The only child of Dear Uncle. She and the narrator fall in love despite her arranged marriage.
 Puri: The clumsy son of Colonel who is destined to marry Layli. A subject of ridicule by the narrator, he is conscripted by the army to fight the Allied invasion, but faints in battle after hearing a gunshot. He loses one of his testicles in a fight with the narrator, becoming a subject of Dr. Naser al-Hokama's treatments.
 Qamar: The mentally challenged, overweight daughter of Aziz al-Saltaneh from her first marriage and Dustali Khan's stepdaughter. The family goes to great lengths to find her a husband and save her honor after she is found impregnated by Dustali Khan.
 Deputy Taymur Khan: An "internationally renowned" detective famous for his aggressive methods of deduction.
 Cadet Officer Ghiaasabadi: An old opium addicted detective and Deputy Taymur Khan's assistant who eventually marries Qamar and wins her inheritance money, overcoming Dustali Khan in the process.
 Naneh Rajab: Cadet Officer Ghiaasabadi's mother.
 Akhtar: Cadet Officer Ghiasabdi's sister, a promiscuous woman who dances at a nightclub.
 Asghar the Diesel: Akhtar's boyfriend, a street thug.
 Farokh Laqa: A bitter old woman who has never been married and is always in search of funerals to attend.
 Sardar Maharat Khan: A Sikh Indian businessman; though not a military man, his honorific Persian title of Sardar means "Commander". Dear Uncle thinks that he is a British spy.
 Lady Maharat Khan: The Sardar's blonde British wife.
 Shir Ali the Butcher: A giant, violent butcher, protective of his wife Tahereh's honor, but too simple to realize her infidelity. The "Shir" in his name means "lion".
 Tahereh: Shir Ali's