[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Nature and Origins of Mass Opinion

ages: They are arguments for a certain point of view. When a message is adopted, it becomes a consideration.
 Cueing messages: They carry "contextual information" to activate one's predispositions to adopt or reject a message.

Zaller introduces four axioms that form the foundation of the RAS model.

 Reception axiom: People with high political attentiveness are more likely to receive (encounter and understand) political messages about a political issue.
 This has a heavier stress on cognitive engagement than emotional engagement. But emotional engagement is an important function especially when coupled with cognition.
 Zaller suggests that measuring domain specific awareness is preferable to general awareness.
 Resistance axiom: People who could derive contextual information from a message to work out the relationship with their predispositions are more likely to reject than accept the message.
 What factors determine the ease of deriving contextual information? Political attentiveness and clarity of a message. When contextual information provided is obscure (either because an issue is unfamiliar or because of vague question wording), political awareness plays a more important role in assisting people to work out the linkage with their predisposition than in circumstances where contextual information is readily available.
 Credibility of a source is often used as a proxy for providing contextual information to those who feel the issue has little impact on themselves, like political issues to many.
 Accessibility axiom: More recent considerations are more likely to be retrieve in memory for use to interpret the messages given.
 Response axiom: People average the considerations made available to them when responding to a survey.

Zaller sums these four axioms up in his "Receive-Accept-Sample" (RAS) model. To form an "opinion statement", people receive information on an issue, decide to accept it or not, and to sample considerations they could retrieve at the moment.

References

External links
The Nature and Origins of Mass Opinion at Cambridge University Press
Summary of The Nature and Origins of Mass Opinion

1992 non-fiction books
Books about public opinion
Cambridge University Press books