[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Banoo Main Teri Dulhann

s plans and attacks the couple again. Later, Sindoora corners Sagar and Vidya on the edge of the cliff of Kailashpati Shankar Mandir (Lord Shiva) and she kills both of them by shooting them with her gun twice in a row. Bharat learns that Sindoora killed Sagar and Vidya and flees the house.

Season 2

21 years later
Sagar and Vidya were reborn as Amar Shivdhar Upadhyaya and Divya on the night of their death. Amar is born as Rajeev and Mahua's son. Rajiv overhears the priest's future prediction about Sindoora and swaps Amar with Shivhdhar Upadhayay's biological son Samrat. Divya is a modern rich girl from London and Amar is a spontaneous tour guide from Benaras. Divya is Samrat's friend and comes to meet him and his Singh family in Delhi. She mistakenly goes to Banaras instead of Agra. Amar and Divya both meet there, Divya has strange flashbacks of her previous birth time which she does not remember immediately. Amar and Divya fall in love with each other but Divya sacrifices her love for Amar for his childhood friend Bindiya and returns to Delhi. On the day of Amar and Bindiya's marriage Bindiya tells Amar about Divya's sacrifice and they both call off their marriage. Samrat proposes Divya for marriage and Divya agrees to it. Divya thinks that Amar is married to Bindiya. Samrat is marrying Divya only for money. Amar comes to Delhi to find Divya and meets the Singh family and he learns of Samrat and Divya's marriage and is heartbroken. Rajiv learns that Amar is his biological son and so does Sindoora. Divya finds Amar's letter and learns that Amar has not married Bindiya. Amar learns that Chinu and Shalu's daughter Kamna is pregnant with Samrat's child and they stop Samrat and Divya's marriage and reveal Samrat's truth to the family. Sindoora reveals to everyone about Amar being Rajiv's biological son and Rajiv also reveals the truth and show ends.

Cast and characters

Main
 Divyanka Tripathi Dahiya as Vidya Sagar Pratap Singh / Divya Amar Shukla  – Sagar/Amar's wife, Kaushalya's daughter.
 Sharad Malhotra as Sagar Pratap Singh / Amar Shivdhar Upadhay / Amar Rajeev Shukla AKA Chhota Thakur  – Vidya/Divya's husband, son of Rajendra Pratap Singh and Uma Pratap Singh (season 1) / Rajeev and Mahua's son (season 2).

Recurring
 Rajendra Gupta as Rajendra Pratap Singh – Sagar, Sindoora, Mahua and Chandra's father. Uma's husband, died of heart attack. (episodes 1–13)
 Surinder Kaur as Uma Pratap Singh – Sagar's mother. Rajendra Pratap Singh's 2nd wife. Sindoora, Mahua and Chandra's step-mother (Choti-Ma). (episodes 1–700)
 Jaya Bhattacharya as Gayatri – Sagar's aunt, Due to a car accident plotted by Sindoora, she goes into coma just like Divya (Vidya). (episodes 266–354)
 Kamya Panjabi as Sindoora Pratap Singh. Rajendra's eldest evil daughter, Bharat's ex-mother, Aniket's ex-wife, the murderer of Sagar and Vidya. She hates Vidya, Divya, Sagar and Amar. (episodes 7–557, 622–700)
 Rajesh Balwani as Aniket – Sindoora's ex-husband and Bharat's father. He knows Sindoora is evil and wants to see Sagar and Vidya together. (episodes 28-419, 515–700)
 Shyam Sharma as young Bharat – Aniket and Sindoora's son. He ran away from home and returned after 21 years.(episode 28-393)
 Raj Lathia as Sameer (episodes 100–343)
 Mohit Malik as adult Bharat Singh aka Mr. B.S. (episodes 515–700)
 Shamin Mannan as Aditi, Bharat's wife, and Karan's ex-wife. (episodes 516–700)
 Himanshi Choudhry / Ritu Vashist Vashisht as Mahua Singh – Rajiv's wife and Amar's mother. She eventually vanishes along with her sister Chandra. The character appeared in episodes 7-494 and 495–578.
 Amrapali Gupta as Radha, Vidya's friend from Benares. (episodes 1–12)
 Harsh Vashisht as Rajeev Shukla, Mahua's husband. He is later married to Chandra. The character appeared in episodes 278–514, 527,529, 553,571 & 575.
 Faisal Raza Khan as Kartik, Mahua's ex-husband.
 Vishal Watwani as Samrat, the false son of Rajeev and Mahua, biological son of Amar's parents. He is Viren and Divya's good friend, and is Divya's ex-fiancé. (episodes 396 through 507) 
 Addite Shirwaikar / Shweta Dadhich as Chandra, Rajendra's daughter. She eventually vanishes along with her sister Mahua. The character last appeared in episodes 7-393 and 396–673.
 Puneet Vashisht as Harsh, Chandra's ex-husband, in jail now. The character appeared in episodes 1–377.
 Kamini Kaushal as Dadi Maa, Harsh's grandmother.
 Suhita Thatte as Kaushalya, Vidya's mother (episodes 1–206), she does not know that her daughter Vidya and son-in-law Sagar were killed by Sindoora
 Renuka Bondre as Hema Chachi, Shalu's mother. She later vanishes with husband Harish. The character last appeared in episode 562.
 Snehal Sahai as Shalu, Chinu's wife. Hema's daughter, Kamna's mother and Vidya's cousin. The character last appeared in episodes 393,453, 517 & 537.
 Manish Naggdev as Cheenu, Shalu's husband, Kamna's father and Sagar's cousin. The character last appeared in episodes 393,453 & 537.
 Amrin Chakkiwala as Kamna, daughter o