[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Reservation (law)

tated that they themselves can decide what the consequence will be of an inadmissible reservation. The ILC states that only the reserving state can decide what action it will follow. The state can decide to withdraw or change its reservation or decide not to become a party to the treaty in question.

Further, the ILC stated that a guide to practice should be made consisting of guidelines to clarify certain problems in the VCLT concerning reservations. States welcomed this suggestion, although it must be added this guide to practice will have no binding legal force.

References

Sources

Books and articles
 Aust, A, Modern Treaty Law and Practice, Cambridge University Press 2004
 Belilos, (1988) EHCR Pubs, Series A, vol. 132
 Goodman, R, Human Rights Treaties, Invalid Reservations and State Consent, "The American Journal of International Law", Vol. 96, No. 3. (Jul.,2002), pp. 531–560
 Klabbers, J, Accepting the Unacceptable? A New Nordic Approach to Reservations to Multiltereral Treaties, "Nordic Journal of International Law" 2000, pp. 179–193
 Korkella, Konstantin, New Challenges to the Regime of Reservations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, EJIL (2002), vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 437–477
 Parisi, Francesco, and Seveenko, Catherine, Treaty Reservations and the Economics of Article 21 (1) of the Vienna Convention, George Mason School of Law Series of Working Papers in Law and Economics

Cases

 General Comment No. 24 of the Human Rights Committee of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 15 HRLJ (1994) 464, at 467...

External links
 United Nations Treaty Collection, including links to reservations to treaties from the League of Nations and other multilateral treaties
 Multilateral treaties deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, with text of reservations and objections to reservations, untreaty.un.org
 Procedural history and related documents on The Guide to Practice on Reservations to Treaties in the Historic Archives of the United Nations Audiovisual Library of International Law
 Treaties in Force: A List of Treaties and Other International Agreements of the United States in Force as of January 1, 2000, United States Department of State - Office of the Legal Adviser (Treaty Affairs), states when reservations were made but does not provide the text of those reservations
 Reservations to treaties -- Bibliographies on the topics of the International Law Commission (no. 2 in the list) (UNOG Library)
 Reservations and Declarations made to the Council of Europe, includes text of reservations
 The Effect of Reservations on the Entry Into Force of the American Convention on Human Rights (Arts. 74 and 75), Advisory Opinion OC-2/82, September 24, 1982, Inter-Am. Ct. H.R. (Ser. A) No. 2 (1982), hosted by umn.edu
 1. Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, Multilateral treaties deposited with the U.N. Secretary-General

Treaty law