[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Officer Cadet School (Singapore)

rse consisted of a 12-week junior term that trains cadets to lead sections, as well as a 27-week senior term that trains them to lead platoons. In May 1980, the Medical Officer Cadet Course was introduced for officers who wanted to take up medical or dental professions in the Singapore Armed Forces.

The SAFTI Military Institute was opened was 9 June 1990 and a new 42-week Tri-Service Officer Cadet Course was launched on 17 September 1990 by Lieutenant-General Winston Choo, the Chief of Defence Force. In the first 19 weeks of the course, cadets from all three branches of the Singapore Armed Forces trained in the same environment. After that, the cadets from the Navy, Air Force and the Army's support arms attended vocational training in their respective schools, while Infantry cadets remained in OCS to continue their professional training. In the last two weeks, all the cadets returned to OCS to rehearse for their commissioning parade.

In 2004, after National Service was further reduced from two years and six months to two years, the Officer Cadet Course was shortened from 42 weeks to 38 weeks. The new 38-week course had its first batch of cadets on 21 March 2005.

Training 
The current Officer Cadet Course is 38 weeks long and divided into three terms: Service, Professional, and Joint. During the first two weeks of the Service term, cadets take the Common Leadership Module and undergo an initiation ceremony at the end of the two weeks to mark their entry to OCS. After that, they branch into their respective services for the Service Term. From weeks 3 to 14, Army cadets undergo platoon and section-level infantry training. At the end of the Service term, Army cadets will be attached to the various formations (e.g. Armour, Artillery, Combat Engineers, Infantry, Signals) based on their preferences, performance during the Service Term, security clearance, among other criteria.

During the Professional Term from weeks 15 to 35, Army cadets in Infantry remain in the SAFTI Military Institute for further training, while the rest go to various military schools (e.g. Artillery Institute, School of Armour, Signal Institute) to receive training specific to their formations. Cadets in the combat service support formations will attend the Support Officer Cadet Jungle Orientation Training course in Brunei before they report to their respective military schools. Cadets in Infantry will go on two overseas training courses during the Professional Term: the first is to either Taiwan or Thailand for general infantry training, and the second is to Brunei for the Jungle Confidence Course.

Navy and Air Force cadets continue their training at the SAFTI Military Institute before they leave for further training at sea and Air Force Training Command respectively for the last six months of the Professional Term.

All cadets attend the Joint Term at the SAFTI Military Institute in the last three weeks, during which they learn how the three service branches work with each other and rehearse for their Commissioning Parade. At the Commissioning Parade, the cadets receive their commissions with the rank of Second Lieutenant from either the President of Singapore or a representative of the President, such as a Cabinet Minister or Minister of State.

Rank insignia 
Like commissioned officers and warrant officers, the cadets wear their rank insignia on chest straps on combat uniforms and shoulderboards on full dress uniforms. The insignia consists of one, two or three white bars denoting their seniority: Freshmen, Junior Bar, and Senior Bar cadets respectively. Senior cadets also have the privilege of taking on school-level appointments in deference to their seniority and course performance during their service term. The graduating class wears peaked caps instead of berets.

All cadets take on exercise and admin appointments to hone their leadership skills. Cadets who take on exercise appointments serve as appointment holders (e.g. platoon commander, platoon sergeant) during field exercises and wear orange-coloured rank insignia similar to that worn by their non-trainee counterparts. For example, the exercise platoon commander wears an orange rank insignia of a Lieutenant while the exercise platoon sergeant wears an orange rank insignia of a First Sergeant. Cadets who take on admin appointments wear the white bar rank insignia with additional loops and whorls to denote their appointments, such as Cadet Platoon Commander and Cadet Platoon Sergeant. The cadets are evaluated on their performance while they are holding these exercise and admin appointments. Each wing's Wing Sergeant Major conducts a change-of-command parade whenever there is a change in appointment holder.

Organization of the Corps of Cadets 
Overall command of the Corps of Cadets OCS-SAFTI MI falls on the shoulders of the Commander OCS, who also serves as commandant of the Corps.