[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Anna Hazare

run Nalawade.
Anna – a 2016 Indian Hindi-language biographical film based on the life of Anna Hazare by Shashank Udapurkar and starring Udapurkar as Hazare.
Andolan Ek Suruvat Ek Shevat is a 2014 Indian Marathi-language film inspired by Hazare who also stars in a lead-role, his first such film work.

Personal life 
Hazare is unmarried. He has lived in a small room attached to the Sant Yadavbaba temple in Ralegan Siddhi since 1975. On 16 April 2011, he declared his bank balance of  and  as money in hand. He owns 0.07 hectares of family land in Ralegan Siddhi, which is being used by his brothers. He donated for village use two other pieces of land donated to him by the Indian Army and by a villager.

Writings

See also
 Hartal

References

Further reading

 
 
 
 
 Periwinkle Environmental Education Part-X Author-Harendra Chakhaiyar, Publisher- Jeevandeep Prakashan Pvt Ltd, 
 From Poverty to Plenty: The Story of Ralegan Siddhi Volume 5 of Studies in Ecology and Sustainable Development. Authors- Ganesh Pangare, Vasudha Pangare. Publisher: Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, 1992. 
 Dynamics of rural development: lessons from Ralegan Siddhi Publisher- Foundation for Research in Community Health, 2002.
 Troubles and Wet Solutions: Success Story of Ralegan Siddhi's Watershed Development Project Centre for Alternative Agriculture Media
 
 Ralegan Siddhi Authors: Ramesh Awasthi, Dashrath K. Panmand, Foundation for Research in Community Health (Bombay, India) Publisher: Foundation for Research in Community Health, 1994. Original from The University of Michigan. Digitized 22 December 2009. Length 92 pages
 Religion and ecology in India and Southeast Asia Authors- David L. Gosling, Ninian Smart, Contributor- Ninian Smart, Edition-illustrated, Publisher- Routledge, 2001, 
 Springs of life: India's water resources Authors Ganesh Pangare, Vasudha Pangare, Binayak Das, World Water Institute (Pune, India), Bharathi Integrated Rural Development Society, Edition- illustrated, Publisher-Academic Foundation, 2006.

External links
 
 
 Civil Society – Official website
 
 
 
 

20th-century Indian judges
1937 births
Indian Hindus
Living people
Founders of Indian schools and colleges
Indian civil rights activists
Gandhians
Indian Army personnel
Nonviolence advocates
Freedom of information activists
Recipients of the Padma Shri in social work
Recipients of the Padma Bhushan in social work
Indian human rights activists
Indian revolutionaries
Marathi politicians
Maharashtra politicians
20th-century Indian educational theorists
People from Ahmednagar district
Maharashtra academics
Social workers from Maharashtra
Hunger strikers
Inmates of Tihar Jail
Prisoners and detainees of Maharashtra