[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# New York City ethnic enclaves

opean ethnic groups have formed enclaves in New York. These include Albanian, Croatian, German, Scandinavian, Hungarian, Greek, Irish, Italian, Jewish (see Jewish enclaves in New York City), Polish, Russian, Serbian and Ukrainian. There are British and French expatriate communities in New York City.

Albanian
Albanians first immigrated to the United States from Southern Italy and Greece in the 1920s. Later, in the 1990s, after the fall of communism in Eastern Europe, many Albanians flocked to the United States. Two neighborhoods that became Albanian are Belmont and Pelham Parkway.

In April 2012, it was reported by the New York Times that 9,500 people in the Bronx identify themselves as Albanian. Many live near Pelham Parkway and Allerton Ave in the Bronx.

German

Germans starting immigrating to the United States in the 17th century, and until the late 19th century, when Germany was the country of origin for the largest number of immigrants to the United States.  In fact, Over one million Germans entered the United States in the 1850s alone.

German American ethnic enclaves in New York City include the now-defunct Little Germany, in Manhattan and the extant Yorkville, Manhattan.  Little Germany, or as it was called in German, Kleindeutschland, was positioned in the Lower East Side, around Tompkins Square, in what would later become known as Alphabet City. The General Slocum disaster in 1904 wiped out the social core of the neighborhood, and many Germans moved to Yorkville.  Yorkville, part of the Upper East Side, is bounded (roughly) by 79th Street to the south, 96th Street and Spanish Harlem to the north, the East River to the east, and Third Avenue to the west.  The main artery of the neighborhood, 86th Street, has been called the "German Broadway".  For much of the 20th century, Yorkville was inhabited by German and Hungarian Americans.

The Queens neighborhoods of Ridgewood and Glendale include small populations of Germans.  Ridgewood notably includes Gottschee expatriates from modern-day Slovenia.

Greek

Astoria, Queens, is home to the largest concentration of Greek Americans in New York.  Walking down a street in the 1970s, one would see Greek restaurants, Hellenic clubs, and many Greek-owned businesses.  Now, Astoria has become more diverse, with Mexican Americans, Colombian Americans, Pakistani Americans, and Russian Americans all calling Astoria home, among others.  Many Greeks are leaving Astoria for Whitestone, Queens, but many of the buildings in Astoria are still owned by Greeks.

Through the 1950s, most Greek New Yorkers lived in Manhattan. With a surge in Greek immigration in the 1960s, Astoria emerged as New York City's "Greektown." Between 1965 and 1975, about 150,000 Greek immigrants settled in the United States, with the majority settling in New York City.  With most migrating for the economic opportunity, but as living conditions in Greece improved in the 1980s, Greek migration slowed.  However, Astoria remains New York's "Greektown."

Hungarian

There is a significant orthodox Jewish Hungarian population in the rapidly growing neighborhood of Borough Park, Brooklyn. In December 2012, the stretch of 13th Avenue from 36th to 60th Streets was co-named Raoul Wallenberg Way in honor of the Swedish diplomat who saved 100,000 Hungarian Jews during the Holocaust. Many of these survivors settled in Borough Park after the war and raised their families here. There is also a Hungarian population in Williamsburg, Brooklyn and an affluent population in Yorkville, Manhattan.

Irish

Irish Americans make up approximately 5.3% of New York City's population, composing the second largest non-Hispanic white ethnic group.  Irish Americans first came to America in colonial years (pre-1776), with immigration rising in the 1820s due to poor living conditions in Ireland.  But the largest wave of Irish immigration came after the Great Famine in 1845.

After they came, Irish immigrants often crowded into subdivided homes, only meant for one family, and cellars, attics, and alleys all became home for some Irish immigrants.  In fact, New York once had more Irish people than Dublin itself. The Irish in New York developed a particular reputation for joining the New York City Police Department as well as the New York Fire Department.

This traditional connection between the Irish-American population and these services is reflected in the continued presence of Emerald Societies that serve as fraternal associations for law enforcement, fire service, and non-uniform civil service agencies.