[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Metropolitan Community College (Missouri)

ball team, the Scouts, won the 1996 NJCAA Men's Division II Basketball Championship and was runner-up in 1997 and 2002. In 1991, Penn Valley hosted the seventh Science Olympiad National Tournament, which was won by Grandville Junior High School from Michigan and La Jolla High School from California.

Programs
MCC Institute for Workforce Innovation - Since 1985, MCC has worked with local companies to provide training, recruitment, evaluations and other professional services, contracting with employers such as Harley-Davidson, Honeywell, Ford, GM, Folgers, and Smith Electric Vehicles.  Services expanded to include database management, quality control, assessment, human resource services, and contract training, including OSHA and safety management.  In 2009, MCC combined its workforce development efforts with economic development, resource development, and community development to create the MCC Institute for Workforce Innovation (IWI). IWI also targets incumbent and displaced workers and disadvantaged populations such as minorities and rural residents, providing short-term career training, job placement, counseling, and basic skills development for over 4,000 students a year.  Currently, IWI contracts with over 80 companies in the region, and for two years in a row, has been ranked in the Kansas City Business Journals Top 25 Area Consulting Firms.

Notable alumni
 Edward F. Arn, Kansas governor
 William M. Boyle, Democratic National Committee chairman
 George H. Clay, president of Kansas City Federal Reserve
 Blevins Davis, theatrical producer
 David F. Duncan, drug policy advisor to President Bill Clinton; professor at Brown University
 S. George Ellsworth, LDS historian
 Jack Gentry (entrepreneur), founder of Positronic
 Clay Johnson, basketball player
 Ewing Marion Kauffman, founder of Marion Laboratories, original owner of the Kansas City Royals, and philanthropist
 Brent Lasater, Republican member of the Missouri House of Representatives
 Robert L. J. Long, four-star admiral
 Logan Morrison, baseball player
 Dale D. Myers, NASA administrator
 Irene C. Peden, engineer who was the first woman to live and work in interior Antarctica
 Albert Pujols, baseball player 
 Casey Stengel, baseball player and manager
 Maxwell D. Taylor,  United States Army officer and diplomat 
 Mort Walker, creator of Beetle Bailey cartoon (1942)
 Charles Wheeler (politician), Kansas City mayor
 Frank White, baseball player and coach
 Brian C. Wimes, federal judge

References

External links
 Official website

Community colleges in Missouri
Kansas City metropolitan area
Universities and colleges in Kansas City, Missouri
Buildings and structures in Independence, Missouri
Universities and colleges established in 1969
Education in Jackson County, Missouri
Buildings and structures in Jackson County, Missouri
1969 establishments in Missouri
NJCAA athletics
Two-year colleges in the United States