[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bruno (footballer, born 1984)

ie D.

Atlético Carioca
Atlético Carioca tried to sign Bruno, initially giving up in March 2021. In May 2021, Bruno announced his decision to retire from football to become an investor; however, within two weeks, he announced that he had signed with Atlético Carioca.

Murder, arrest and imprisonment

On 9 June 2010, the athlete's former mistress, Eliza Samudio, disappeared. While pregnant, she had claimed that Bruno was her child's father, which she could prove after her son was born. When he refused to support the child, Samudio had sued Bruno during a time when a lucrative transfer to AC Milan was being negotiated. After Samudio's disappearance, her child turned up with Bruno's wife. In July 2010, a Brazilian judge ordered Bruno's arrest. A 17-year old cousin of Bruno told police that he had taken part in Samudio's abduction with his friend, Luiz Henrique Ferreira Romão. He also stated that Samudio was dead but did not say how she died, nor where her body was, and that Bruno was the father of her baby, despite him already being married. Flamengo suspended his contract with the club and their lawyers eventually did not represent him in court anymore. According to his accomplice Romão, Bruno tried to commit suicide twice, while in prison waiting for his trial to begin, but the Secretariat of Rio de Janeiro denied that Bruno had done so; it did report that he fainted once, due to low blood sugar levels.

In late July, he was formally charged with murder, kidnapping, hiding a body, forming a criminal gang (conspiracy) and corrupting minors. According to police, Bruno's teenage cousin stated that Samudio's body was cut up and some parts were fed to dogs, while other parts were buried under concrete. Bruno confessed to organizing the plot.

The case has led to debate in Brazil concerning misbehavior by professional athletes and growing crime against women. On 8 March 2013, he was sentenced to a 22-year jail term for the assault, torture and murder of his former girlfriend and mother of his youngest child.

Release and re-arrest
In February 2017, after Fernandes had served just six years and seven months in prison, his lawyers filed a petition of habeas corpus because of the slow processing of an appeal request. The petition was granted by the minister of the STF Marco Aurélio Mello and Bruno was released from jail pending an appeal. After his release, Bruno immediately received a number of contract offers and he accepted that from Boa Esporte Clube. Samudio's mother's suit demanding Bruno's return to prison because he posed a threat to her grandson was unsuccessful. In a media interview, de Souza said:

In April 2017, Brazil's supreme court ordered his re-arrest because the defence's legal team themselves were partly to blame for the delays in his appeal, and Bruno was imprisoned again.

Partial house arrest 
In July 2019, Bruno was released from prison to serve in a "semi-open" program for the rest of his sentence, where he could work or train in the day, while being under house arrest at night. The program was intended to have him return to jail each night, but Varginha Prison's inadequate facilities to accommodate the coming and going of detainees led to Bruno enjoying house arrest instead.

Career statistics

Club

according to combined sources on the Flamengo official website and Flaestatística.

In 2006 Bruno played for Atlético Mineiro in the Brazilian Série B.

List of goals scored

Following, is the list with the goals scored by Bruno:

Honours

Club
Flamengo
 Taça Guanabara: 2007, 2008
 Taça Rio: 2009
 Rio de Janeiro State League: 2007, 2008, 2009
 Brazilian Série A: 2009

References

External links

zerozero.pt 

1984 births
Living people
Brazilian men's footballers
Brazilian people convicted of murder
Men's association football goalkeepers
Campeonato Brasileiro Série A players
Clube Atlético Mineiro players
CR Flamengo footballers
People convicted of murder by Brazil
Footballers from Minas Gerais
Sport Club Corinthians Paulista players
Murder convictions without a body
Sportspeople convicted of murder
People from Ribeirão das Neves