[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Metal Warriors

rts because of internal issues that occurred within the company with Flock's departure to form their own studio, Big Ape Productions. A Game Boy Advance conversion was in development by animator Leonard Robel at LucasArts without the original team but it was never released due to internal conflicts.

 Reception Metal Warriors was positively received upon release, earning praise for its level designs, graphics, two-player deathmatch mode, diverse selection of playable mechs and ability to leave one's mech suit. Game Informer said that this last feature "adds a whole new level of playing to the game, making you think through the missions on two levels; where can I take my mech and where can I take my pilot." Since its initial release, it has gained a cult following. In 2011, IGN placed the title on their Top 100 SNES Games list at #33, praising its originality and two-player versus mode.

Most critics described the game's difficulty as extremely challenging without being frustrating, though a few complained at the lack of a password system. VideoGames, which was most vehement about this complaint, nonetheless added that "Metal Warriors is still a white-hot game", and applauded it for giving "a lot of leeway" in how the players can explore the stages and engage enemies.

Some critics noted Metal Warriors is similar to earlier games, though this typically did not lower their opinion of it. The four reviewers of Electronic Gaming Monthly, for example, acknowledged that the game is very similar to Cybernator, but judged it to be an outstanding game due to the heavy challenge and simple controls. GamePro likewise called the game "a new and improved Cybernator", praising the detailed and uncluttered graphics, variety of equipment, and the general fun of blowing up enemies. Next Generation stated that "there's not an original thought in Metal Warriors''' cybernetic head, but it's done well for what it is."

References

External links 

 Metal Warriors at GameFAQs
 Metal Warriors at Giant Bomb
 Metal Warriors at MobyGames

1995 video games
Action games
Cancelled Game Boy Advance games
Cancelled Sega Genesis games
Konami games
LucasArts games
Multiplayer and single-player video games
North America-exclusive video games
Platformers
Run and gun games
Super Nintendo Entertainment System games
Super Nintendo Entertainment System-only games
Video games about mecha
Video games developed in the United States
Video games set in Alaska
Video games set in Chile
Video games set in the 22nd century
Video games set in the future