[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Battles of Lexington and Concord

iences, and humanities to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the battles. On April 19, 1975, as a crowd estimated at 110,000 gathered to view a parade and celebrate the Bicentennial in Concord, President Gerald Ford delivered a major speech near the North Bridge, which was televised to the nation.

President Ford laid a wreath at the base of The Minute Man statue and then respectfully observed as Sir Peter Ramsbotham, the British Ambassador to the United States, laid a wreath at the grave of British soldiers killed in the battle.

See also 

 List of American Revolutionary War battles
 American Revolutionary War#Early engagements
 Westminster Massacre

Notes

References 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  This book is extensively footnoted, and contains a voluminous list of primary resources concerning all aspects of these events.
 
 
 
 
 
 Galvin, Gen. John R. The Minute Men: The First Fight: Myths & Realities of the American Revolution, Pergamon-Brassey's, Washington, D.C., 1989. . This book provides a military perspective on the battle and its leaders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Raphael, Ray and Marie Raphael (2015). The Spirit of '74: How the American Revolution Began. New York: New Press.

Further reading 
 Greenwalt, Phillip S., and Robert Orrison. A Single Blow: The Battles of Lexington and Concord and the Beginning of the American Revolution, April 19, 1775. Emerging Revolutionary War Series. El Dorado Hills, CA: Savas Beatie, 2018. .

Newspaper articles published near the time of the battles 
  — Massachusetts Provincial Congress resolution to put the colony into "a complete state of defense"
  — John Hancock calling Massachusetts Provincial Congress to assemble, in view of "intelligence received from the last vessels from Great Britain", and related occurrences.
  — An early description of the battles and recited troop strengths and initial casualty reports.

External links 

 National Park Service site for Minute Man National Historical Park
 Buckman Tavern – Lexington Historical Society
 Why We Remember Lexington and Concord and the 19th of April
 Rescued cannon returns to Concord
 Battles of Lexington and Concord
 Articles about the Concord Fight in Concord Magazine
 Animated History of the Battles of Lexington and Concord 
 Concord Massachusetts
 Merriam's Corner
 Lexington Alarm Letter at Van Gorden-Williams Library & Archives
  Facts and figures on Acton, Bedford, Concord and Lexington of the period, including the rosters of the towns' Minute Men and Militia
 Statements of American combatants at Lexington and Concord contained in supplement "Official Papers Concerning the Skirmishes at Lexington and Concord" to The Military Journals of Private Soldiers, 1758–1775, by Abraham Tomlinson for the Poughkeepsie, NY, museum, 1855.

1775 in the Thirteen Colonies
Conflicts in 1775
Lexington and Concord
Lexington and Concord
Lexington
Concord, Massachusetts
Lexington, Massachusetts
Arlington, Massachusetts
Lincoln, Massachusetts
History of Cambridge, Massachusetts
History of Middlesex County, Massachusetts
1775 in the Province of Massachusetts Bay
Military history of New England
Lexington