[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Marianna

nking force and escape, but many homeguards, conscripts, and militia were pinned in town.  Colonel Montgomery was captured while attempting to flee to the Chipola River bridge. His escaping cavalry took up positions on the other shore and were able to deter the Union forces from crossing the bridge.

In town, the remaining defenders on the south side of the street broke and ran, but those near the church stubbornly held out as the detachment of U.S. Colored Troops engaged them. A dismounted bayonet charge finally forced their surrender.  However, several Confederates continued to fire from the church and nearby homes. This led to the church being set ablaze and the defenders shot down as they were smoked out.

Casualties
When the fighting ended, some 10 Confederates lay dead or dying, 16 were wounded, 54 were captured and 13 of these were released. Among the wounded was dentist Thaddeus Hentz, a son of famed novelist Caroline Lee Hentz; he was shot not far from his mother's grave.

Union casualties were 8 killed or mortally wounded, 19 wounded, and 10 captured. Among the Federal wounded was General Asboth himself. Prior to the war, Asboth had been a hero of the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 and was one of the men who had surveyed Central Park in New York City. His wound would never heal properly, and he would eventually die of its effects in 1868.

Aftermath
Due to the fiercer-than-expected fighting and high casualties, particularly among the officers, Asboth's plan to turn south toward St. Andrews Bay was cancelled. Instead, that evening and the next morning, the raiders withdrew toward Choctawhatchee Bay. The column brought with it over 600 liberated slaves, 17 wagons filled with captured arms and stores, 200 captured horses, and 400 head of cattle.  At Vernon, the force overran Capt. W.B. Jones' scout company, taking more prisoners. In all, 96 prisoners from the various engagements would return with the raiders. (Many of these would die in prison.)  The Confederate forces were too few and too far behind to mount an effective pursuit.

It would be decades before the region recovered from the damage inflicted by the raid.

References

Battle of Marianna
The Battle of Marianna by Maj. Keith Kohl - 4th Florida Infantry CSA

External links
 Historical Marker Database - Battle of Marianna
 Historical Marker Database - Site of the Battle of Marianna

Marianna
Marianna
Marianna
Jackson County, Florida
Marianna
1864 in Florida
September 1864 events