[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 28]
# List of Shaman King characters

it sword" and used by Yoh Asakura during the Shaman Fight while the original is kept in a museum. His name is based on the Buddha Amitābha, the principal figure in the Pure Land Buddhist sect. At the conclusion of the series, he becomes the guardian ghost of Yoh and Anna Kyoyama's son, Hana Asakura.

  
 
 Bason is the ghost of an ancient Chinese military commander from the Han Dynasty who serves Ren faithfully and obeys him without question.  He refers to Ren as "Bocchama", which means "Young Master"; in the English version of the manga and anime, he refers to Ren as "Master Ren". Though Ren initially regards him as nothing more than an instrument to become Shaman King, Bason eventually becomes a valued and trusted friend of Ren. While he was noted for his bravery in life, he tends to be intimidated by Ren. Having bravely served the Tao family in life, he continued to follow them as a ghost and has sworn to serve Ren by any means possible. He carries a kwan dao, and in his days as an ancient Chinese warrior, Bason rode into battle on a horse named Hei-Tao; the spirit of Hei-Tao can be integrated into another horse kept by Ren, named Bái-Feng, to perform the Perfect Re-enactment of the Vorpal Dance.  Bason is capable of adding tremendous strength and speed to Ren's Kwandao, and even making it quite larger, but also uses his body in attacks such as the Golden Punch. In Giant Spirit Form, Bason appears as a giant robot capable of launching fireballs. While Amidamaru specializes in fighting a single opponent, Bason excels in fighting a number of opponents at once. Like Ren, Bason appears very cold and cruel at the beginning of the series, however, following interaction with Yoh Asakura, Bason, like his master, begins to soften up and develop a much more pleasant disposition. He feels an overwhelming sense of duty to his master, even breaking down in tears when Ren is imprisoned by his father. While Bason and Amidamaru are very hostile and competitive at first, they soon become friendly rivals.

 
 
 Kororo is a Koropokuru, known to the Ainu as the "little people who live under the butterbur leaves" and known as "Minutians" in the 2001 English anime, and is Horohoro's spirit partner. She is surprisingly cute and develops a slight crush on Manta Oyamada, but becomes jealous when Horohoro admires Morphine for her delicate features. Kororo's abilities allow Horohoro to create and manipulate ice. She is known as "Corey" in the 2001 English anime, which sounds similar to "", which is the Japanese word for ice and also the element that Horohoro's attacks are based on. In the KangZengBang chapters, it is eventually revealed that Kororo is the spirit of , a girl whose father was involved with the construction of a dam near Horohoro's village and was nicknamed "".  She gave Horohoro his nickname and they formed a tentative friendship as they were both considered outcasts among their classmates. However, when Horohoro's grandfather told him to stay away from Damuko, Horohoro began to ignore her, though Damuko continued to hang out with him and hoped they would see the butterbur fields in the spring. However, when she suffered an accident trying to follow him one day, Damuko froze to death and Horohoro has blamed himself for killing the only girl he ever loved. When Horohoro reveals why he began ignoring her during his fight with Kalim, Kororo is able to briefly return to her true form as Damuko and explains how she became a Koropokkoru after her death in order to learn the reason why he broke off their friendship.  Finally reconciled with Horohoro, she returns to her koropokkoru form and remains by his side.

 
 
 The spirit ally of "Wooden Sword" Ryu, Tokageroh is the ghost of an obscure bandit from 14th Japan with a reptilian appearance. Tokageroh raised in poverty by his mother with a surival instinct when she fed him parts of her body to keep him from straving, only to be killed by Amidamaru at the age of 35. Tokageroh's desire for revenge kept him from moving on before seeking his chance by possessing Ryu and having his men steal Amidamaru's Harusame before going atfter Yoh and Amidamaru. The fight that ensues forces Yoh and Amidamaru to break the Harusame in order to save Ryu's life. Yoh appeals to Tokagero and allows him to possess him instead of Ryu, who is just an innocent bystander because Yoh believes that Tokageroh is not as evil as he claims. Tokageroh does so, with the supposed intention of killing Yoh in the process, but finds he does not have the heart to and, after being touched by Yoh's trust in him, leaves Yoh's body peacefully. Tokagero eventually reforms and becomes the spirit ally of Ryu. After Ryu and Tokageroh train at Izumo, Tokageroh become an ascended spirit embodying Yamata no Orochi in his  and  forms.