[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nathan Kimball

ssippi in to join the Siege of Vicksburg, although they arrived too late to participate in much of the actual fighting. In September, the greater part of Kimball's division was ordered to Arkansas, where it became incorporated in the VII Corps. He commanded the rear echelon in the Camden Expedition.

In April 1864, Kimball was relieved of duty in the Department of Arkansas and ordered to report to William T. Sherman, who became a close personal friend. Kimball was on detached duty under Sherman until May 1864, when he was given command of a brigade in the IV Corps at the beginning of the Atlanta Campaign.  Following the Battle of Peachtree Creek in July, Kimball assumed command of a division in the same corps.

He returned to Indiana at Governor Morton's request to help subdue the Knights of the Golden Circle in that state, then returned to active field duty in the late fall, serving as a division commander in the battles of Franklin and Nashville. He received a brevet as a major general February 1, 1865, and mustered out of the army on August 24, 1865, following the close of the war.

Postbellum activities
Kimball returned to Indiana, where he became associated with the newly organized Grand Army of the Republic, serving as its first state commander. Reentering politics, he was elected in 1867 as the State Treasurer, where he focused on banking reform and was re-elected to a second term. In 1869, he joined the Freemasons lodge in Mount Pleasant, Indiana. Kimball won election to the Indiana House of Representatives in 1873 from Marion County. His former commander in the Vicksburg Campaign, Ulysses S. Grant, appointed Kimball in 1873 as Surveyor General for the Utah Territory, a post that he held until 1878.  The following year, President Rutherford B. Hayes appointed him as the Postmaster of Ogden, Utah, Kimball's adopted home. He served in this role until his death in 1898. Kimball was buried in Ogden, Utah.

Honors

A bronze bust of Kimball was erected in the Vicksburg National Military Park in 1915.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)

Notes

References
 Baxter, Nancy Niblack, Gallant Fourteenth: The Story of an Indiana Civil War Regiment. Carmel, Indiana: Guild Press, 1980. .
 Denslow, William R., 10,000 Famous Freemasons from K to Z. Whitefish, Montana: Kessinger Publishing, 2004. .
 Heitman, Francis, Historical Register and Dictionary of the United States Army 1789-1903. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1903.
 Warner, Ezra J., Generals in Blue: Lives of the Union Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1964, .
 U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, U.S. Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.
Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War webpage for Kimball

External links

Vicksburg National Military Park webpage for Kimball's monument
 

1822 births
1898 deaths
DePauw University alumni
Politicians from Ogden, Utah
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Union Army generals
Gibraltar Brigade
People of Indiana in the American Civil War
People from Indiana in the Mexican–American War
State treasurers of Indiana
Republican Party members of the Indiana House of Representatives
People from Washington County, Indiana
University of Louisville School of Medicine alumni
People from Loogootee, Indiana
19th-century American politicians
Grand Army of the Republic officials