[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1979 U.S. embassy burning in Islamabad

or espionage, but they were rescued by Pakistani police.

Pakistani soldiers rescued nearly 100 people who were trapped in the embassy vault for five hours. The vault had access to the roof. Pakistani forces landed helicopters on the roof, pushed back the protesters and rescued the US embassy staff.

Locked behind steel-reinforced doors, the Americans waited for help to come and rescue them from the smoke-filled building. During the wait the rioters attempted to break in and shot at them through the ventilation shafts. After nightfall a Marine unit was able to sneak out a back exit from the vault as the front door was too damaged to open.  Finding the embassy empty they led the rest of the 140 people from the vault out into the courtyard.

Aftermath 
After the attack, nonessential embassy personnel were evacuated back to the United States. Ayatollah Khomeini praised the attack, while Zia-ul-Haq condemned it in a televised address, stating "I understand that the anger and grief over this incident were quite natural, but the way in which they were expressed is not in keeping with the lofty Islamic traditions of discipline and forbearance."

In media

The attack is covered in the Pulitzer Prize-winning nonfiction books Ghost Wars by Steve Coll (in detail) and The Looming Tower by Lawrence Wright (to a lesser extent).

See also
2012 Benghazi attack on U.S Consulate
United States Embassy siege in Tehran
1983 Beirut barracks bombing
Anti-Americanism
Pakistan–United States relations
Attacks on U.S consulate in Karachi
Grand Mosque seizure

References

Arson in Pakistan
Pakistan–United States relations

Events in Islamabad
Us Embassy Burning In Islamabad, 1979
United States Marine Corps in the 20th century
Sieges involving Pakistan
Buildings and structures in Pakistan destroyed by arson
Military government of Pakistan (1977–1988)
Attacks on diplomatic missions of the United States
United States
20th century in Islamabad
Crime in Islamabad
US Emb