[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Oleksandr Zavarov

st round of 1981–82 European Cup Winners' Cup. The Soviets won 3:0 and Zavarov scored twice. In the next round SKA played against German Eintracht Frankfurt and again their first match of the two legs tie they played at home. The home win over the Germans also came about not without help of Zavarov.

SKA Rostov-na-Donu leadership tricked Zavarov accused him in being "absent without leave" which would make him do another two years in disciplinary battalion. While being in military detention, Zavarov remained determined to leave the service. His wife when she found out wrote a grievance letter to the Minister of Defense Dmitriy Ustinov. On the 9th day Zavarov gave up after all and signed an agreement to receive a rank and remain in the service. However, once freed, Zavarov was requesting to be demobilized immediately. From the Ministry of Defense arrived a commission which told him if he leaves, they will bar him from playing. Zavarov told them that does not care and was disqualified indefinitely. For almost 6 months he worked at the October Revolution Factory in Luhansk making train wheels until one of workers, two times Hero of Socialist Labor, blacksmith Kurylo didn't appeal to the Football Federation and disqualification was removed.

After being reinstated following his disqualification Zavarov joined the factory team where he worked FC Zorya Luhansk that played in the Pervaya Liga (2nd tier). His first match after the disqualification was on May 11, 1982 in away game against Kolos Nikopol which Zorya lost 0:2.

In 1983–88, he played for the Soviet-Ukrainian giants, Dynamo Kyiv, with whom he won the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1985–86, scoring in the final itself. In Dynamo Zavarov also was offered a militsiya (police) rank, but he refused. 

Zavarov later played for Juventus between 1988 and 1990, becoming the first Soviet player to play in Serie A; he won the Coppa Italia and the UEFA Cup under manager Dino Zoff in 1990, and also wore the iconic number 10 shirt in his first season with the team, which had formerly belonged to club legend Michel Platini, although he later switched to the number 9 shirt, and the number 10 shirt was given to Giancarlo Marocchi the following season. Although much was initially expected of Zavarov at the Turin-based club, his time with Juventus was considered to be less successful, despite his two title victories; in spite of the arrival of compatriot Sergei Aleinikov in his second season with the team, Zavarov also had difficulties settling in at the club, due to his strenuous relationship with the club's manager, Dino Zoff, and also as he struggled to learn Italian. For his transfer Juventus paid $5 million which was a record for the Soviet football. It was one of the highest paid transfers of the decade. The transfer was conducted through a Soviet intermediary "Sovintersport". Upon conclusion of the transfer $3 million went to the Soviet government, $2 million to Dynamo Kyiv. Two million dollars were allocated by the Soviet government to the Soviet Olympic team for the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul.

He subsequently transferred to Nancy in 1990, where he remained for five seasons, before finally moving to Saint-Dizier in 1995, retiring after three seasons, in 1998.

International career
At the end of summer of 1979, Zavarov took part in the 1979 FIFA World Youth Championship on the Soviet team losing in the final to Argentinians led by Diego Maradona. In one of the group stages matches Zavarov scored his only goal against Hungarians as a header from a corner kick. The final match against Argentine was one of his two that he actually witnessed from substitution bench.

In October of 1981 Zavarov played couple of matches for the under-21 team in group qualifications. Next month he had some issues with club.

Zavarov had 41 caps for the USSR, scoring six goals including two in the World Cup finals in 1986 and 1990. He also played in the Euro 1988 in which the USSR team were runners-up.

Style of play
A creative, quick, agile and skilful midfielder, Zavarov was primarily known for his excellent technical ability, two-footedness, stamina, and tactical intelligence, and was usually deployed as an attacking midfielder or as a supporting striker, although he was also capable of playing as a deep-lying playmaker, due to his versatility, vision, and long passing accuracy. Zavarov played a key role in Valeri Lobanovski's successes with Dynamo Kyiv, and his dribbling skills and playmaking ability led his Dynamo Kyiv coach to compare him to Diego Maradona.