[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# A. P. Hill's Light Division

A. P. Hill's Light Division was an infantry division in General Robert E. Lee's Confederate Army of Northern Virginia during the American Civil War. Originally including six brigades, the division's first commander starting May 27, 1862 was then Major General A. P. Hill. Major Generals William Dorsey Pender and Cadmus M. Wilcox commanded a reorganized Light Division in the Army of Northern Virginia after Hill's promotion to corps command and Pender's death at the Battle of Gettysburg, respectively.

Component brigades and commanders

Created in the late May and June 1862, the Light Division included six brigades from six Confederate states. The First Brigade was a Virginia brigade under the command of Brigadier General Charles W. Field. The brigade initially included the 40th, 47th and 55th Virginia Infantry Regiments and the 2nd Virginia Infantry Battalion. This brigade was later commanded by Colonel John M. Brockenbrough after Field was severely wounded at the Second Battle of Bull Run (Second Manassas) and by Brigadier General Henry Heth from March 5, 1863, until May 3, 1863, when he temporarily assumed command of the division after Hill was wounded at the Battle of Chancellorsville. The Second Brigade was a South Carolina brigade commanded by Brigadier General Maxcy Gregg. This famous brigade became known as the Gregg-McGowan Brigade. Brigadier General Samuel McGowan was the other major commander of the brigade after Gregg was mortally wounded at the Battle of Fredericksburg and died two days later. The South Carolina Brigade included the 1st South Carolina Rifles (Orr's Rifles), and the 1st South Carolina Infantry, 12th South Carolina Infantry, 13th South Carolina Infantry and 14th South Carolina Infantry Regiments.

The Third Brigade included Georgia troops. First commanded by Brigadier General Joseph R. Anderson, the brigade was commanded for most of its existence by Brigadier General Edward L. Thomas. The brigade included the 14th Georgia Infantry, 35th Georgia Infantry, 39th Georgia Infantry and 45th Georgia Infantry Regiments.

The Fourth and Sixth Brigades included North Carolina infantry regiments. Brigadier General Lawrence O'Bryan Branch's brigade included the 7th North Carolina Infantry Regiment, 18th North Carolina Infantry Regiment, 28th North Carolina Infantry Regiment, 33rd North Carolina Infantry Regiment, and 37th North Carolina Infantry Regiment. After Branch was killed at the Battle of Antietam on September 17, 1862, the brigade was commanded by Brigadier General James H. Lane. Brigadier General William Dorsey Pender's Brigade included the 16th North Carolina Infantry Regiment, 22nd North Carolina Infantry Regiment, 34th North Carolina Infantry Regiment and 38th North Carolina Infantry Regiment. This brigade was later commanded by Colonel (from December 13, 1862), later Brigadier General (from June 13, 1862) Alfred Scales.

Finally, the Fifth Brigade was a mixed command of Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee regiments under Brigadier General James J. Archer. It mainly included the 5th Alabama Infantry Battalion, 19th Georgia Infantry Regiment, 1st Tennessee Infantry Regiment, 7th Tennessee Infantry Regiment, and 14th Tennessee Infantry Regiment. It was commanded from January 20, 1865, to the surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Courthouse, Virginia, on April 9, 1865, by Brigadier General William McComb.

Artillery batteries initially attached to the Light Division included Captain R. Snowden Andrews's (Maryland) battery, Captain William K. Bachman's (Charleston, South Carolina) German battery, Captain Carter M. Braxton's Battery (Va.) [Fredericksburg Artillery], Captain William G. Crenshaw's (Virginia) battery, Captain Greenlee Davidson's Battery (Va.) [Letcher Artillery], Captain Marmaduke Johnson's (Virginia) battery, Captain L. Masters's (Virginia) battery, Captain David G. McIntosh's Battery (S.C.) [Pee Dee Artillery] and Captain William J. Pegram's Battery (Va.) [Purcell Artillery] and later Henry Grey Latham's Battery (N.C.) and Fleet's Battery (Va.) [Middlesex Artillery]. Major (Lieutenant Colonel by August 1862 at the Battle of Cedar Mountain) Reuben Lindsay Walker commanded the artillery batteries after Lieutenant Colonel Lewis M. Coleman commanded the division artillery during the Seven Days Battles.

Fighting record
The Light Division saw its first action as a unit in the Seven Days Battles as part of James Longstreet's wing of the Army. Some of the regiments had seen action earlier in the campaign on May 27, 1862. The division was heavily engaged at the Battles of Mechanicsville, Gaines' Mill, and Glendale.