[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Small nucleolar RNA

ut each family is classified by the following generalised characteristics. For more detail, see review.
SnoRNAs are classified under small nuclear RNA in MeSH. The HGNC, in collaboration with snoRNABase and experts in the field, has approved unique names for human genes that encode snoRNAs.

C/D box

C/D box snoRNAs contain two short conserved sequence motifs, C (RUGAUGA) and D (CUGA), located near the 5′ and 3′ ends of the snoRNA, respectively. Short regions (~ 5 nucleotides) located upstream of the C box and downstream of the D box are usually base complementary and form a stem-box structure, which brings the C and D box motifs into close proximity. This stem-box structure has been shown to be essential for correct snoRNA synthesis and nucleolar localization. Many C/D box snoRNA also contain an additional less-well-conserved copy of the C and D motifs (referred to as C' and D') located in the central portion of the snoRNA molecule.  A conserved region of 10–21 nucleotides upstream of the D box is complementary to the methylation site of the target RNA and enables the snoRNA to form an RNA duplex with the RNA.  The nucleotide to be modified in the target RNA is usually located at the 5th position upstream from the D box (or D' box).   C/D box snoRNAs associate with four evolutionary conserved and essential proteins—fibrillarin (Nop1p), NOP56, NOP58, and SNU13 (15.5-kD protein in eukaryotes; its archaeal homolog is L7Ae)—which make up the core C/D box snoRNP.

There exists a eukaryotic C/D box snoRNA (snoRNA U3) that has not been shown to guide 2′-O-methylation.
Instead, it functions in rRNA processing by directing pre-rRNA cleavage.

H/ACA box

H/ACA box snoRNAs have a common secondary structure consisting of a two hairpins and two single-stranded regions termed a hairpin-hinge-hairpin-tail structure.  H/ACA snoRNAs also contain conserved sequence motifs known as H box (consensus ANANNA) and the ACA box (ACA). Both motifs are usually located in the single-stranded regions of the secondary structure. The H motif is located in the hinge and the ACA motif is located in the tail region; 3 nucleotides from the 3′ end of the sequence.  The hairpin regions contain internal bulges known as recognition loops in which the antisense guide sequences (bases complementary to the target sequence) are located. These guide sequences essentially mark the location of the uridine on the target rRNA that is going to be modified. This recognition sequence is bipartite (constructed from the two different arms of the loop region) and forms complex pseudo-knots with the target RNA.  H/ACA box snoRNAs associate with four evolutionary conserved and essential proteins—dyskerin (Cbf5p), GAR1, NHP2, and NOP10—which make up the core of the H/ACA box snoRNP. Dyskerin is likely the catalytic component of the ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex because it possesses several conserved pseudouridine synthase sequences, and is closely related to the pseudouridine synthase that modifies uridine in tRNA.  In lower eukaryotic cells such as trypanosomes, similar RNAs exist in the form of single hairpin structure and an AGA box instead of ACA box at the 3′ end of the RNA. Like Trypanosomes, Entamoeba histolytica has mix population of single hairpin as well as double hairpin H/ACA box snoRNAs. It was reported that there occurred processing of the double hairpin H/ACA box snoRNA to the single hairpin snoRNAs however, unlike trypanosomes, it has a regular ACA motif at 3′ tail.[19]

The RNA component of human telomerase (hTERC) contains an H/ACA domain for pre-RNP formation and nucleolar localization of the telomerase RNP itself.  The H/ACA snoRNP has been implicated in the rare genetic disease dyskeratosis congenita (DKC) due to its affiliation with human telomerase.  Mutations in the protein component of the H/ACA snoRNP result in a reduction in physiological TERC levels.  This has been strongly correlated with the pathology behind DKC, which seems to be primarily a disease of poor telomere maintenance.

Composite H/ACA and C/D box
An unusual guide snoRNA U85 that functions in both 2′-O-ribose methylation and pseudouridylation of small nuclear RNA (snRNA) U5 has been identified. This composite snoRNA contains both C/D and H/ACA box domains and associates with the proteins specific to each class of snoRNA (fibrillarin and Gar1p, respectively). More composite snoRNAs have now been characterised.

These composite snoRNAs have been found to accumulate in a subnuclear organelle called the Cajal body and are referred to as small Cajal body-specific RNAs (scaRNAs). This is in contrast to the majority of C/D box or H/ACA box snoRNAs, which localise to the nucleolus. These Cajal body specific RNAs are proposed to be involved in the modification of RNA polymerase II transcribed spliceosomal RNAs U1, U2, U4, U5 and U12.   Not all snoRNAs that have been localised to Cajal bodies are composite C/D and H/ACA box snoRNAs.