[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Motor-vehicle inspection (Japan)

or yellow light, and be aimed correctly. Kei cars built 2006 and older are allowed white or yellow headlights, while kei cars built 2007 and newer are only allowed to have white headlights. Incorrect headlight colour, depending on the person's knowledge during the inspection, will result in a fail.

Exhaust and Emissions 
Cars under 10 years old may emit not more than 1% carbon monoxide, and not more than 300ppm unburned hydrocarbons. Cars older than 10 years may emit up to 4.5% carbon monoxide and up to 1200ppm unburned hydrocarbons. This emission standard is laid out in the Japanese Emission Standard legislation. High flow catalytic converters are allowed. All oxygen sensors must be in working order along with any oil catch tanks. Exhaust noise is tested at a 45-degree angle,  from the tailpipe outlet. Vehicles up to 10 years old may emit not more than 96 decibels; older vehicles are allowed 103 dB.

Suspension 
No bushings may be broken or in bad condition. All control arms must be in working order. There can be no rust/corrosion on springs, struts or other suspension components. If the car has 4 wheel steering, it must be working. The vehicle must also meet minimum height requirements, which will be checked by referencing the lowest part of the vehicle (not including the suspension components). For vehicles with 200–249 cm wheelbase they must be 8 cm off the ground and vehicles with 250–299 cm wheelbase they must be 9 cm off the ground. For all other vehicles for every 50 cm over 299 cm in wheelbase add .5 cm to the minimum height and for vehicles under 200 cm in wheelbase subtract .5 cm to the minimum height.

Interior 
General interior equipment must be intact (i.e.: dash). Roll cages (must have padding around bars) and carpet removal is allowed. Bucket seats must measure 420 mm from left to right bank but can not be over 450 mm from left exterior side to right exterior side (total width of seat). Aftermarket seats made of fiber-reinforced plastic are not allowed. Any holes or rips in seats must either be taped or repaired.

Older vehicles 
As vehicles get older, maintaining them to the required standards can become expensive. Most Japanese do not get involved in mechanical repairs, and as a result, mechanics can charge high prices. Vehicles that cannot pass inspection are not permitted on public roads. Unwanted vehicles must be exported or destroyed and recycled. Many Japanese used vehicles are exported once it is no longer cost-effective to keep them in service in Japan.

See also 
 Vehicle inspection
 MOT test (UK)
 National Car Test (Republic of Ireland)
 Warrant of Fitness (New Zealand)

References

External links 
Light Motor Vehicle Inspection Organization
National Agency of Vehicle Inspection (Japanese & English)
Motor Vehicle Inspection and Registration Guide (Japanese)

Road transport in Japan
Car costs