[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# European Youth Forum

etaries-General

Funding
In 2012, almost 87% of the Youth Forum income stemmed from annual grants from international institutions. 83.9% of the total income came from the European Communities' Budget, through a grant from DG Education and Culture, while around 3.2% was from Council of Europe grants.

Partnership projects also constitute an essential part of Youth Forum income, and such income includes the support of partner organizations for concrete activities, e.g. YFJ Member Organisations hosting YFJ meetings, or grants from foundations or other entities, such as the United Nations, Governments or Local Authorities.

Volunteer Time Contributions (VTCs) are an essential source of external funding, and which allow the YFJ to fulfill its co-funding requirements as per the European Commission. VTCs also represents the further recognition of volunteer work as an important contribution to society and to the work of youth organizations. These contributions in 2012 represent approximately 4.8% of the Youth Forum budget.

Membership
The European Youth Forum has 104 member organizations of two types of Membership: National Youth Council and International Non-Governmental Youth Organization, of which there are three levels: Observer, Candidate and Full member. Only full members may vote at the statutory meetings of the Forum.

According to the statues: 
 All members have to fulfill the following general criteria:
	to accept and work for the purpose of the Forum;
	to be a non-governmental and not for profit organization;
	to have democratic aims and structures and accept the principles of the European Convention of Human Rights;
	to fully acknowledge the Statutes of the Forum;
	to work with young people and have a decision-making body controlled by young people;
	not to be subject to direction in their decisions by any external authority.

National Youth Councils
Presently there are 43 National Youth Councils who are members of the European Youth Forum. Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Turkey don't currently have recognized National Youth Councils.

National Youth Council members must:
 be the national coordination body of non-governmental youth organizations in a European State;
 be open to all democratic youth organizations at the national level. 
To be full members they must be open to all and represent most of the main democratic youth movements and organizations at the national level in that State.

International Non-Governmental Youth Organisations
Presently there are 61 International Non-Governmental Youth Organisations who are members of the European Youth Forum.

Full IYNGO Members either must have: at least 5000 young members in ten European States, and under no circumstances have less than 300 young members in any one of these ten States; or: have a motivated recommendation from: the Secretary-General and Board; or the Consultative Body on Membership Applications which advises the Board on Membership Applications.

Observer INGYO members must have 3000 young members in at least six European States with at least 100 members in any of these six states.

INGYOs cannot become members if they are largely identical in terms of aims, membership, and structures of an existing INGYO, which is already a member. This is to be appreciated solely by the General Assembly, by a two-thirds majority, abstentions not counted.

References

Inventory of the European Bureau of Coordination of International Youth Organisations archives (ECB/BEC), held at the European University Institute - Historical Archives of the European Union, 1994-2006

External links
 European Youth Forum Website
 
 
 European Youth Forum Publications
 Archives of the European Youth Forum at the Historical Archives of EU in Florence
 Archival fonds of CENYC, YFEC and BEC are consultable at the Historical Archives of EU in Florence

International organisations based in Belgium
Organisations based in Brussels
Youth empowerment organizations
Youth organizations based in Europe
Youth rights organizations