[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 141]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

amma to shops, where there were fine powdered
gentlemen and ladies that sold things to other people, and
livery-servants, and young ladies that played on the harpsichord, like
Miss Matilda.

_Mr Barlow._--But, my good little friend, do you imagine that these fine
powdered gentlemen and ladies made the things which they sold?

_Tommy._--That, sir, I cannot tell, but I should rather imagine not; for
all the fine people I have ever seen are too much afraid of spoiling
their clothes to work.

_Mr Barlow._--All that they do, then, is to employ poorer persons to
work for them, while they only sell what is produced by their labour. So
that still you see we reach no farther than this; the rich do nothing
and produce nothing, and the poor everything that is really useful. Were
there a whole nation of rich people, they would all be starved, like the
Spaniard in the story, because no one would condescend to produce
anything; and this would happen in spite of all their money, unless they
had neighbours who were poorer to supply them. But a nation that was
poor might be industrious, and gradually supply themselves with all they
wanted; and then it would be of little consequence whether they had
pieces of metal with heads upon them or not. But this conversation has
lasted long enough at present; and, as you are now going to bed, I
daresay Miss Simmons will be so good as to defer the remainder of her
story until to-morrow.

The next day Tommy rose before his father and mother; and, as his
imagination had been forcibly acted on by the description he had heard
of the Arabian horsemen, he desired his little horse might be saddled,
and that William, his father's man, would attend him upon a ride.
Unfortunately for Tommy, his vivacity was greater than his reason, and
his taste for imitation was continually leading him into some mischief
or misfortune. He had no sooner been introduced into the acquaintance of
genteel life, than he threw aside all his former habits, and longed to
distinguish himself as a most accomplished young gentleman. He was now,
in turn, sickened and disgusted with fashionable affectation; and his
mind, at leisure for fresh impressions, was ready to catch at the first
new object which occurred. The idea, therefore, which presented itself
to his mind, as soon as he opened his eyes, was that of being an Arabian
horseman. Nothing, he imagined, could equal the pleasure of guiding a
fiery steed over those immense and desolate wastes which he had heard
described. In the meantime, as the country where he wished to exhibit
was at too great a distance, he thought he might excite some applause
even upon the common before his father's house.

Full of this idea he rose, put on his boots, and summoned William to
attend him. William had been too much accustomed to humour all his
caprices to make any difficulty of obeying him; and as he had often
ridden out with his young master before, he did not foresee the least
possible inconvenience. But the maternal care of Mrs Merton had made it
an indispensable condition with her son, that he should never presume to
ride with spurs; and she had strictly enjoined all the servants never to
supply him with those dangerous accoutrements. Tommy had long murmured
in secret at this prohibition, which seemed to imply a distrust of his
abilities in horsemanship, which sensibly wounded his pride. But since
he had taken it into his head to emulate the Arabs themselves, and
perhaps excel them in their own art, he considered it as no longer
possible to endure the disgrace. But, as he was no stranger to the
strict injunction which had been given to all the servants, he did not
dare to make the experiment of soliciting their assistance.

While he was in this embarrassment a new and sudden expedient presented
itself to his fertile genius, which he instantly resolved to adopt.
Tommy went to his mamma's maid, and without difficulty, obtained from
her a couple of the largest-sized pins, which he thrust through the
leather of his boots, and, thus accoutred, he mounted his horse without
suspicion or observation.

Tommy had not ridden far before he began to give vent to his reigning
passion, and asked William if he had ever seen an Arabian on horseback.
The answer of William sufficiently proved his ignorance, which Tommy
kindly undertook to remove by giving him a detail of all the particulars
he had heard the preceding night; but, unfortunately, the eloquence of
Tommy precipitated him into a dangerous experiment; for, just as he was
describing their rapid flight across the deserts, the interest of his
subject so transported him that he closed his legs upon his little
horse, and pricked him in so sensible a manner, that the pony, who was
not deficient in spirit, resented the attack, and set off with him at a
prodigious rate.

William, when he saw his master thus burst forth, was at a loss whether
to consider it an accident