[Source: PubMed]

10. Front Oncol. 2024 Oct 2;14:1380663. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1380663.
eCollection  2024.

A guide to global access to HPV vaccination to all women in low- and 
middle-income countries; a minireview of innovation and equity.

Ewongwo A(1), Sahor AF(2), Ngwa W(3), Nwachukwu C(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, United 
States.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Texas Health, Houston, 
TX, United States.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, United States.
(4)Department of Radiation Medicine and Applied Sciences, University of 
California, San Diego, San Diego, CA, United States.

INTRODUCTION: Cervical cancer is caused by the human papillomavirus (HV), and 
accounts for more than 311,000 preventable deaths annually, with 85% occurring 
in low-and middle-income countries. Despite being preventable through screening 
and screening, significant barriers to implementing HPV vaccination persist in 
developing nations. This review study aims to identify these barriers and 
propose innovative, evidence-based solutions to improve vaccination rates and 
reduce cervical cancer mortality.
METHODS: A systematic review search was conducted using PubMed, Embase, and 
Cochrane Database of Systemic Reviews. Keywords related to HPV vaccination 
barriers and implementation strategies in developing countries were used. 
Relevant demonstration projects, pilot studies, and evidence-based research 
articles were reviewed.
RESULTS: Identifiable barriers to a successful vaccine implementation program in 
a developing country include vaccine costs, societal, cultural resistance, 
misinformation, logistical challenges in vaccine delivery, and inadequate human 
resources. Solutions to these barriers include a subsidized vaccine pricing, 
community sensitization, education and well-trained media professionals to 
dispel misinformation, and partnerships with both public and private sector for 
efficient vaccine distribution.
DISCUSSION: These findings highlight critical barriers that impede HPV 
vaccination efforts in developing countries and offers practical solutions to 
overcome these challenges. This aggregate of data can help inform future 
developing countries' implementation programs to further the World Health 
Assembly mission to vaccinate 90% of eligible girls globally by 2030.

Copyright © 2024 Ewongwo, Sahor, Ngwa and Nwachukwu.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1380663
PMCID: PMC11480722
PMID: 39416459

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.