[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Equus (film)

efore moving to unrealistic lighting, to capture conflicting Apollonian and Dionysian world views. With cinematographer Oswald Morris and production designer Tony Walton, Lumet developed a complex colour scheme avoiding easily identifiable colours, preferring to combine colours to emphasise duality.

The scene where Firth rides the horse nude was filmed in one take, in an uninterrupted shot lasting four and a half minutes. Whereas the blinding scene was done in pantomime on stage, Lumet opted to graphically display it to convey the horror. Much of the footage shot depicted the horses' heads morphing into faces of Jesus, Dora Strang and Frank Strang, and a glimpse of a Balinese dagger. However, Lumet decided this was unsubtle and cut much of this, only keeping the dagger to portray ancient impulses.

Despite being a British and American production set in Hampshire, England, filming took place entirely in and around Ontario, Canada. The scenes in the stable and Alan's room were filmed in the Toronto International Film Studio in Kleinburg, while downtown Hampshire was doubled with Georgetown and Halton Hills. The Strang family house was a real house located in the Toronto suburb of Riverdale. The film was produced during the height of the "tax shelter era" of Canadian filmmaking, in which foreign producers flocked to the country in order to take advantage of the Capital Cost Allowance which allowed investors to deduct up to a 100% of a film's budget provided it met certain requirements. That, combined with the value of the Canadian dollar and abundance of cheaper crew and locations than those found abroad, led to a boom period in Canadian filmmaking.

Reception

Critical reception

Lumet acknowledged that the film was "very vulnerable to attack", and critics were bound to ask why a film was needed when the play was "perfect", but initial reviews were "respectful". Roger Ebert gave the film two and a half stars, arguing the realism in actual horses and their blinding, "strangely enough, get in the way of the play's own reality: the obsession that the two characters come to share"; however, Ebert complimented Burton and Firth on their performances. Vincent Canby, chief critic for The New York Times, wrote that he preferred the theatricality of the stage production, but "Now, after seeing Sidney Lumet's comparatively realistic film version, it's possible to appreciate Mr. Shaffer's text for what it is— an extraordinarily skillful, passionate inquiry into the entire Freudian method". Canby also found the movie's realism excessive, and said that "the movie exhausts us with information", specifically citing the scene where Alan rides a horse bareback as giving the viewers "anticlimactic detail". Canby also concluded "This is the best Burton performance since Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" Molly Haskell's review in New York remarked that the film came "not a moment too soon" for fans of the play, and that Burton was eloquent, Firth "brings out the ugly and unpleasant qualities of the boy", while Jenny Agutter "is rudely treated as the girl who, in another of those preposterous conventions of sixties movies, offers herself nude to the sensitive youth only to have him spurn her". Jesse Kornbluth, writing for Texas Monthly, called the film "an unqualified success", even though he felt the play was only of interest to "middle-brow" audiences.

English Professor James M. Welsh felt using real horses in the film was understandable, but argued the outdoor scenes infringed on the "abstract theatrical design" that gave the play its creativity. Welsh also felt the explicit blinding was "potentially repulsive", and "much of the spirit of the play is lost as a consequence".

The film received generally positive reviews, currently holding a 68% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 22 reviews. In 2005, the American Film Institute nominated Richard Rodney Bennett's music for AFI's 100 Years of Film Scores.

Accolades

References

Bibliography

External links
 
 
 

1977 films
1977 drama films
British drama films
American drama films
1970s English-language films
Films directed by Sidney Lumet
Films about horses
Films about psychiatry
Films based on plays by Peter Shaffer
Films set in Hampshire
Films shot in Ontario
British independent films
United Artists films
Films featuring a Best Drama Actor Golden Globe winning performance
Films featuring a Best Supporting Actor Golden Globe winning performance
American independent films
Psychotherapy in fiction
Films produced by Elliott Kastner
1977 independent films
1970s American films
1970s British films