[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Economy of South India

ational Highways (17,48,13 & 169; all old numbers), apart from other roadways, railways, waterways and airways. Udupi the temple city is contributing towards the higher education with large number of professional colleges in Manipal. It is also the home of the software company Robosoft Technologies.

Hubballi-Dharwad 
Hubli-Dharwad is the second largest city in Karnataka, in terms of area and population, and is one of the 49 Metropolitan clusters selected by McKinsey & Company as growth hotspots in India. It is also a major city in terms of Administration, Business and Commerce in Karnataka after Bangalore and Mangalore. It is the nerve centre for North Karnataka region. It is the fastest growing city after the capital, Bangalore and the port city Mangalore. It is the Headquarters of South Western Railway, and the Hubli Division of SWR is one of the highest revenue generating railway divisions in India. The High Court of Karnataka is situated at Belur in Hubli-Dharwad, it also has the largest number of government offices outside Bangalore. The Agriculture Produce market at Amargol in Hubli is one of the largest markets in Asia and the cotton market is among the largest cotton markets in India. The city is a major industrial centre, the railway workshop set-up in 1880 is one of the oldest workshops in India and is also the largest holder of EMD locomotives of Indian Railway, the city is home to Tata Motors, Marcopolo, Hitachi Construction Equipment, Telcon, Sankalp Semiconductors etc. Infosys is about to start its operations from Hubli with a campus of over 50 acres.
Hubli, also known as Hubballi, is the second major city of Karnataka. The city has a huge Maharashtrian's effect on it. It was ruled by Marathas and Peshwas for a long time. In old times, Hubli used to be a business centre and it grew some useful things for trade such as cotton, peanuts and chilly.

The city is also named as chhota Mumbai and resides 550 km from Mumbai. It is a fast growing city and turning into a technology hub. It is also being seen as an alternative to Bangalore. Hubli is often known combined with Dharwad, a nearby city. The importance of these two cities can be understood by the fact that they have been recently selected by Indian Government for the smart city project.

Mysuru 
Mysore is the third largest and a very important city in Karnataka. Being tagged as the Heritage City, tourism is a major economic driver and while it is among the top tourist attractions in India, it is said to rank next only to Madame Tussauds in London in the list of most-visited tourist attractions receiving more than 3 million tourists per year.
On the IT front, Infosys has developed the world's largest corporate training centre in the city. Mysore is the second largest exporter of IT in the state and it houses nearly 60 major and minor IT players registered with the Software Technology Park of India [STPI], Mysore and this includes Infosys, WIPRO Technologies, IBM software, Paradigms India, WIFI Net, Logrosoft, Excel soft and Larsen & Toubro Infotech, Theorem etc. Mysore figured high in the vibrancy index survey of Morgan Stanley India last year. Mysore & Bangalore account for more than 60% of the incense stick manufacture & export.

Kerala

Kerala's economy is predominantly service based. As per a recent Niti Aayog report, Kerala has been ranked the most investment friendly state in India,  and in terms of Human Development Index and life standard of the people, Kerala is ahead of all other states in India. In fact, in certain development indices it is on a par with some of the developed countries. This peculiar paradox is often termed as the "Kerala Phenomenon" or Kerala model of development by experts.

Kerala follows a mixed capitalist-welfare economy. In fact, the state's strong emphasis on social welfare has also resulted in slow economic progress. There are few major industries in Kerala, but the per capita GDP is higher than the national average. Remittances from Keralites working abroad, mainly in the Middle East, makes up a large share in Kerala's Gross Domestic Product.