[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jimmy Smith (footballer, born 1987)

Speaking of his time at the West London club, Smith said – "It was frustrating that I never really got the chance. I remember thinking I was involved, then I'd go on loan. I'd come back to a new manager and think I'd have another chance. I was always in and around the first team but things changed".

Loan spells
To further aid Smith's development, he was loaned out to Championship side Queens Park Rangers (QPR) on an initial one-month agreement in September 2006. He made his debut for QPR in the club's 2–1 away victory over Southampton on 30 September, coming on as a second-half substitute in the match. Smith made his first start on his home debut at Loftus Road in a 3–3 draw with Norwich City, a game in which he scored QPR's first goal of the match midway through the first-half. He scored again three days later, on 17 October 2006, hooking in a volley from a corner to briefly restore parity in a match QPR would go on to lose 2–1 to Derby County, subsequently ending their unbeaten run. After impressing during his month at QPR, his loan deal was extended by a further two months, with QPR manager John Gregory saying – "His professionalism is second to none and it is rubbing off on all the other lads in the squad. He's uncomplicated, goes about his job in the right manner and will only go from strength to strength. We feel very honoured to have a player of his class and potential at the club". Shortly after the loan extension, Smith went on to score three times within the space of a week; firstly netting a brace in a 4–2 home victory over Crystal Palace, before poking in Lee Cook's free-kick in a 3–2 away win at Luton Town. His loan deal at QPR was later extended in December 2006, for the remainder of the season. Smith played regularly during the second half of the campaign, scoring one further goal, the only goal of the game in a 1–0 victory over Coventry City at the Ricoh Arena in April 2007. During his time at QPR, Smith scored six times in 31 appearances.

Ahead of the 2007–08 season, in July 2007, Smith joined Championship side Norwich City on a loan deal that would run until the end of December. He sustained a calf injury in Norwich's pre-season friendly with Dutch side FC Zwolle on 25 July 2007, an injury that ruled him out of action for almost three months. Smith finally made his competitive debut for Norwich on 23 October 2007, coming on as a late substitute in a 2–1 defeat to Burnley at Turf Moor. He made nine appearances during a loan spell that was disrupted by injury, with his final appearance coming in a 1–1 home draw with Wolverhampton Wanderers on 29 December 2007. After the game against Wolves, Norwich manager Glenn Roeder confirmed he had been in talks with Chelsea's sporting director, Frank Arnesen, with a view to extending Smith's time there until the end of the season. However, the two clubs failed to reach an agreement for the extension of Smith's loan contract with Chelsea needing back-up in midfield due a number of their players competing in the Africa Cup of Nations, and he returned to Chelsea on 4 January 2008. He spent the remainder of the campaign playing regularly for Chelsea's second-string.

In June 2008, it was reported that Championship side Sheffield Wednesday were interested in acquiring Smith on loan for the first half of the 2008–09 campaign. It was later announced, on 1 July 2008, that the midfielder had joined Sheffield Wednesday on a loan deal until 10 January 2009. He made his debut for the club on the opening day of the season, replacing Jermaine Johnson with twenty minutes remaining in a comfortable 4–1 win over Burnley at Hillsborough. Smith started his first match three days later, on 12 August 2008, in the club's 2–2 draw with Rotherham United in the League Cup. Smith made infrequent appearances in his first three months with Wednesday, starting just four games up during his loan spell, as well as making a further nine appearances from the substitute's bench. This was not helped by the first red card of his career in a 3–1 away defeat to Birmingham City, receiving a four-match ban "for leading with his elbow in a challenge on Stuart Parnaby". After serving the suspension, Smith was unable to hold down a place in the Sheffield Wednesday first-team, returning to Chelsea upon the expiry of his loan deal in early January 2009.