[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# S. Horowitz & Co.

ent buyout for $341 million.
 Representing Kimberly-Clark on its acquisition of a 49.9% interest in Hogla-Kimberly from Hadera Paper Ltd. for NIS 648 million.
 Representing a syndication of lenders led by Bank Hapoalim, including Bank Leumi, Israel Discount Bank and First International Bank of Israel, on the financing for the construction of a Hydrocracker to Bazan Oil Refineries in an amount of $900 million, and the subsequent refinancing in an amount of $350 million.
 Representing Bank Hapoalim on the $650 million financing of the acquisition by Paz Oil Company of the Ashdod Oil Refinery Ltd.
 Representing Bank Hapoalim, HSBC, Mizrahi Tefahot Bank, Migdal Insurance and Financial Holdings, Union Bank of Israel and Israel Discount Bank as lenders, on the financing and refinancing of Netafim in an amount of $500 million.
 Representing Spacecom, Israel’s only private satellite operator, on its $293 million financing for the AMOS-6 satellite.

Notable attorneys
In addition to numerous professors and partners, both at S. Horowitz and other firms, some of the more notable former S. Horowitz attorneys include:
Chief Justice Asher Grunis.
Supreme Court Justice Alfred Witkon.
Supreme Court Justice Tzvi Tal.
Supreme Court Justice Anat Baron.
Prof. David Gilo, former head of the Israeli Competition Authority, and a faculty member at Tel Aviv University.
Prof. Aeyal Gross, a faculty member at Tel Aviv University.
Prof. Eli Bukspan, a senior faculty member at the Reichman University.
 Dr. Ilana Dayan, one of Israel's leading journalists.
 Dr. Yoram Turbowich, former head of the Israeli Competition Authority, former chief of staff for Israeli prime minister Ehud Olmert, and former chief executive officer of Discount Investment Corporation.
 Dr. Israel (Reli) Leshem, senior partner at Meitar law offices.
 Reuven Behar, senior partner at Fischer, Behar, Chen, Well, Orion & Co.

References

External links 
 S. Horowitz & Co. Profile, BDI Code- 2005 (PDF file)
 BDI report in Globes June 26, 2006

Law firms established in 1921
Law firms of Israel