[Source: PubMed]

96. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jan 15;19(2):952. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19020952.

Farmers' Strategies to Climate Change and Urbanization: Potential of 
Ecosystem-Based Adaptation in Rural Chengdu, Southwest China.

Zhong B(1)(2), Wu S(3), Sun G(1), Wu N(1).

Author information:
(1)China-Croatia "Belt and Road" Joint Laboratory on Biodiversity and Ecosystem 
Services, CAS Key Laboratory of Mountain Ecological Restoration and Bioresource 
Utilization & Ecological Restoration and Biodiversity Conservation Key 
Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Chengdu 610041, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
(3)College of Built Environments, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, 
USA.

Ecosystem-based adaptation (EbA) is emerging as a cost-effective approach for 
helping people adapt to climate and non-climate changes. Nowadays, climate 
change and urbanization have affected agricultural systems, but it is not clear 
how rural communities have responded or adapted to those changes. Here, we chose 
two typical villages in the Chengdu Plain, southwest China, through sociological 
surveys on 90 local farmers with a semi-structured questionnaire, participatory 
observation, geospatial analysis of land use and land cover, and a literature 
review, to explore the local people's perception of changes or disturbances and 
their adaptation strategies from the perspective of EbA. The results showed that 
climate change and urbanization had impacted agricultural systems dramatically 
in the last 40 years. In two case-study sites, climate change and urbanization 
were perceived by most local farmers as the main drivers impacting on 
agricultural production, but various resource-use models containing abundant 
traditional knowledge or practices as well as modern tools, such as information 
communication technology (ICT), were applied to adapt to these changes. 
Moreover, culture service through the adaptive decoration of rural landscapes is 
becoming a new perspective for implementing an EbA strategy. Finally, our 
findings highlighted the potential value of an EbA strategy for sustaining 
urban-rural integrated development and enhancing the resilience of agricultural 
systems.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19020952
PMCID: PMC8775926
PMID: 35055772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this paper.