[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1977 in comics

Events

Year overall 
 Wendy and Richard Pini establish WaRP Graphics.
 Jan and Dean Mullaney establish Eclipse Comics.
 The United Kingdom's Eagle Awards are established.
 Ciao magazine is launched.

January

January 3: Stan Lee and John Romita Sr.'s The Amazing Spider-Man newspaper comic strip makes its debut. The storyline of the first strip is that Doctor Doom is coming to address the United Nations.
January 9: In the Goofy story The Weregoof's Curse!, by Romano Scarpa, Plottigat makes his debut.
 Our Army at War #300: "300th Hill," by Robert Kanigher and Joe Kubert. (DC Comics)
 With issue #6 (January//February issue), DC cancels Four Star Spectacular.
 Toward the Terra by Keiko Takemiya debuts in Asahi Sonorama's Gekkan Manga Shōnen magazine.
The Italian magazine Alter Linus changes its headline in Alter alter.

February
 February 10: HUMO publishes Zappa in Zoeloeland, a comic strip by Kamagurka, with text written by rock musician Frank Zappa.
 February 15: Merho's De Kiekeboes makes its debut.
February 26: The first issue of the British comics magazine 2000 AD is published. It also introduces Pat Mills' Tharg the Mighty.
February 27: Mummy fearest, by Romano Scarpa, on Topolino.
 With issue #258, DC cancels Tarzan, a title it acquired from Gold Key Comics in 1972 (and continued the Gold Key numbering).
 With issue #250, DC suspends publishing Blackhawk, which ran from 1944 to 1968, and was revived in 1976.
 Star Spangled War Stories, with issue #204 (February/March ), canceled by DC.
 With issue #33, Marvel cancels the black-and-white magazine Deadly Hands of Kung Fu.
 Planet of the Apes, with issue #29, is cancelled by Marvel.
 Ka-Zar vol. 2, with issue #20, is cancelled by Marvel.
 The Occult Files of Dr. Spektor, with issue #24, canceled by Gold Key.

Spring 
 Doc Savage: Man of Bronze, with issue #8, is cancelled by Curtis Magazines (Marvel Comics).

March
 March 5: Judge Dredd debuts in the second issue of 2000 AD with the story "Judge Whitey", written by Peter Harris and drawn by Mike McMahon.
 March 13: The final episode of James Childress' Conchy is published. 
 March 15: The first episode of Jean Van Hamme and Grzegorz Rosinski's Thorgal is published in Tintin.
 March 17: The Belgian comics magazine Spirou publishes a supplement with more mature content: Le Trombone Illustré. It will run for seven months, until 20 October 1977, before the conventional editors feel it doesn't really fit within their family friendly public image. In its first issue André Franquin's Idées Noires (Franquin's Last Laugh) and Frédéric Jannin and Thierry Culliford's Germain et nous... make their debut.
 March 19: The final episode of Phil Collins' Leonardo is published.
March 22: In Tintin (Belgian edition), the first chapter of the Thorgal story The sorceress betrayed, by Jean Van Hamme and Grzegor Rosinski is published, which marks the debut of the Thorgal series. 
 House of Mystery #251 and The Superman Family #182 became the first DC Comics series in the 80-page Dollar Comics format, consisting of 64 pages of new stories.
 With issue #302, DC changes the title of Our Army at War to Sgt. Rock.
 G.I. Combat #200: "The Tank That Died Twice," by Robert Kanigher and Sam Glanzman.
 Kobra, with issue #7, is cancelled by DC.
 Werewolf by Night, with issue #43, is cancelled by Marvel.
 National Periodical Publications changed its name to DC Comics, Inc.
First number of Skorpio’s Italian edition, by Eura publishing house.

April
 April 12: Marvel publish the first issue of Roy Thomas and Howard Chaykin's adaptation of Star Wars.
 April 18: The first episode of Mort Walker and Jerry Dumas' Sam and Silo is published.
 April 30: The Judge Dredd storyline "The Robot Wars" begins in 2000 AD (running through June 18).
 The first issue of Heavy Metal is published, the English-language version of Métal Hurlant. 
 G.I. Combat #201 and World's Finest Comics #244 change to the Dollar Comics format. Backup features in World's Finest Comics include Green Arrow, Black Canary, Wonder Woman, and the Vigilante.
 Two-Gun Kid, with issue #136, is cancelled by Marvel.
 Marvel Spotlight, with issue #33, is cancelled by Marvel.
 The first issue of the underground comix magazine Rip Off Comix is published.
 In Alter alter, the first chapter of Le straordinarie avventure di Penthotal (Penthotal's extraordinary adventure) by the underground cartoonist Andrea Pazienza is published. A surreal diary of a young cartoonist departed between his artistic vocation and the political consciousness, a transparent alter ego of the author. The series will run until 1981