[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Software modernization

ISO/IEC 14764:2006 or Service-Oriented Migration and Reuse Technique (SMART). Software modernization implies various manual and automated tasks performed by specialized knowledge workers. Tools are supporting project participants' tasks and help organize the collaboration and sequencing of the work.

A general software modernization management approach  taking risks (both technological and business objectives) explicitly into account consists of:
 Analysis the existing portfolio: measuring the technical quality and business value. Confronting the technical quality with business goals to define the right strategy: replace, no go, low priority, good candidate.
 Identify stakeholders: all persons involved in the software modernization: developers, testers, customers, end-users, architects, …
 Understand the requirements: requirements are divided in 4 categories: user, system, constraints and nonfunctional.
 Create the Business Case: the business case supports the decision process in considering different approaches when decision makers need it.
 Understand the system to be modernized: this is a critical step as software documentation is rarely up-to-date and projects are made by numerous teams, both internal or external and usually out of sight for long time. Extracting the content of the application and its architecture design help reason about the system.
 Understand and evaluate target technology: this allows compare and contrast technologies and capabilities against requirements and existing system.
 Define modernization strategy: the strategy defines the transformation process. This strategy must accommodate changes happening during the modernization process (technologies changes, additional knowledge, requirement evolution).
 Reconcile strategy with stakeholder needs: implied stakeholders may have varying opinions on what is important and what is the best way to proceed. It is important to have a consensus between stakeholders.
 Estimate resources: when previous steps are defined, costs can be evaluated. It enables the management determining whether the modernization strategy is feasible given the available resources and constraints.

Modernization costs 
 Softcalc (Sneed, 1995a) is a model and tool for estimating costs of incoming maintenance requests, developed based on COCOMO and FPA.
 EMEE (Early Maintenance Effort Estimation) is a new approach for quick maintenance effort estimation before starting the actual maintenance.
 RENAISSANCE is a method to support system evolution by first recovering a stable basis using reengineering, and subsequently continuously improving the system by a stream of incremental changes. The approach integrates successfully with different project management processes