[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 135]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ut if the uniform gratitude and affection of two human
beings, who perhaps are not entirely unworthy your regard, can be any
recompense for such a distinguished act of virtue, you may command our
lives, and employ them in your service.'

"'Father,' answered Sophron, 'you infinitely over-rate the merits of the
service which chance has enabled me to perform. I am but little
acquainted with my fellow-creatures, as having always inhabited these
mountains; but I cannot conceive that any other man, who had been
witness to your distress, would have refused to attempt your rescue; and
as to all the rest, the obscurity of the night, and peculiarity of the
situation, rendered it a work of little difficulty or danger.' Sophron
then recounted to his new friends the accident which had brought him to
that unfrequented spot, and made him an unperceived witness of their
captivity; he also explained the nature of the stratagem by which, alone
and unsupported, he had been enabled to disperse their enemies. He added
that, 'if he appeared to have any little merit in their eyes, he should
be amply recompensed by being admitted to their friendship and
confidence.'

"With these mutual professions of esteem they thought it prudent to
terminate a conversation, which, however agreeable, was not entirely
free from danger, as some of their late oppressors might happen to
distinguish their voices, and thus directed to their lurking place,
exact a severe revenge for the terrors they had undergone.

"With the first ray of morning the three companions arose, and Sophron,
leading them along the skirts of the mountains where bushes and
brushwood concealed them from observation, and still following the
windings of a river as a guide, they at length came to a cultivated
spot, though deserted by its inhabitants from the fear of the party they
had lately escaped. Here they made a slight and hasty repast upon some
coarse provisions which they found, and instantly struck again into the
woods, which they judged safer than the plain. But Sophron fortunately
recollected that he had formerly visited this village with his father,
while yet a child, and before the country had suffered the rage of
barbarous invasions. It was a long day's march from home, but, by
exerting all their strength, they at length arrived, through rough and
secret paths, at the hospitable cottage where Sophron and his parents
dwelt. Here they were joyfully received, as the long absence of the
young man had much alarmed his parents, and made all the hamlet anxious
concerning his safety. That night they comfortably reposed in a place of
safety, and the next morning, after a plentiful but coarse repast, the
father of Sophron again congratulated his guests upon their fortunate
escape, and entreated them to let him hear the history of their
misfortunes.

"'I can refuse nothing,' said the venerable stranger, 'to persons to
whom I am under such extraordinary obligations, although the history of
my life is short and simple, and contains little worthy to be recited.
My name is _Chares_; and I was born in one of the maritime cities of
Asia, of opulent parents, who died while I was yet a youth. The loss of
my parents, to whom I was most affectionately attached, made so strong
an impression upon my mind that I determined to seek relief in travel,
and for that purpose sold my paternal estate, the price of which I
converted into money and jewels, as being most portable. My father had
been a man distinguished for his knowledge and abilities, and from him I
imbibed an early desire of improvement, which has always been my
greatest comfort and support.

"'The first place, therefore, which I visited was Egypt, a country
renowned in every age for its invention of all the arts which
contribute to support or adorn human life. There I resided several
years, giving up my time to the study of philosophy, and to the
conversation of the many eminent men who resorted thither from all the
regions of the world. This country is one immense plain, divided by the
Nile, which is one of the noblest rivers in the world, and pours its
tide along the middle of its territory. Every year, at a particular
season, the stream begins gradually to swell with such an increase of
waters, that at length it rises over its banks, and the whole extent of
Egypt becomes an immense lake, where buildings, temples, and cities
appear as floating upon the inundation. Nor is this event a subject of
dread to the inhabitants; on the contrary, the overflowing of their
river is a day of public rejoicing to all the natives, which they
celebrate with songs and dances, and every symptom of extravagant joy.
Nor is this to be wondered at, when you are informed that this
inundation renders the soil which it covers the most abundant in the
world. Whatever land is covered by the waters, receives such an increase
of fertility, as never to disappoint the hopes of the indust