[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kazem Rajavi

pean accord against terrorism." The decision to repatriate the suspects caused protests throughout France and was condemned by the U.S. The European Parliament "condemned the Islamic Republic both for the assassination and for the continuous violation of human rights inside and outside the country."

Informed sources said that Paris had taken seriously "Iranian threats of launching a new wave of terrorist operations in France but also against French interests and citizens in both Iran and Lebanon if Paris decided to extradite the two to Switzerland."

The culprits of Kazem Rajavi's killing have gone unpunished to date. On 29 May 2020 Swiss justice system sent a letter to Rajavi's family saying that it would drop the investigation relating to Rajavi's assassination, with the letter saying that "the criminal investigation must be closed because the statute of limitations has been reached".

The decision of the Swiss prosecutor's office was strongly protested by the National Council of Resistance of Iran which issued a statement condemning it, and demanded that the case be kept open. NCRI also called for Issuance of international arrest warrants for Seyyed Ali Khamenei, Hassan Rouhani, then secretary of Iran's Supreme Security Council, and Ali Akbar Velayati, the then foreign minister.

Letter to the Deputy Attorney General of the Swiss Confederation 
In a letter to the Deputy Attorney General of the Swiss Confederation, Vaud Canton's Prosecutor suggested that the assassination of Prof. Kazem Rajavi should be investigated as a case of crime against humanity and not just as a typical homicide. He therefore suggested the case to be transferred to the Attorney General, since genocide and crimes against humanity fall exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Swiss Confederation. In April, ten politicians and personalities in Geneva signed an article in the Tribune de Genève criticizing impunity in Rajavi's case, with Jean Ziegler saying that closing this case would constitute "'impunity for assassins' on Swiss soil."

See also

Iranian diplomat terror plot trial
Iran and state-sponsored terrorism

References

1934 births
1990 deaths
1990 murders in Switzerland
Assassinated Iranian politicians
Deaths by firearm in Switzerland
Iranian expatriates in Switzerland
Iranian people murdered abroad
People murdered in Switzerland
People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran members
University of Geneva alumni
Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies alumni
University of Paris alumni
Iran–Switzerland relations
People killed in Ministry of Intelligence (Iran) operations
1990s assassinated politicians