[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pavee Point

; and to work with the schools to make them more accepting of Traveller parents. As of 2005, Pavee Point has produced an educational DVD to help familiarise parents with the school system, facilitated workshops for parents about getting involved in school, and provided one-on-one support and advice.

Health
 Local level: Primary Care for Traveller's Project (PCTP)
In 1994, Pavee Point joined with the Eastern Health Board to form a pilot health initiative; the Primary Care for Traveller's Project. Four years later, the project expanded from Finglas to include Blanchardstown in its radius of service.  The goals of the project were to raise awareness about the good health for Travellers, to teach Traveller women basic health-related skills, to facilitate dialogue between Travellers and the health service providers, and to call attention to problems in healthcare distribution for Travellers. To make healthcare more amenable to Travellers, Pavee Point created health informational materials with Traveller-friendly imagery and began educating hospitals and universities about the health issues that Travellers are facing.
 Regional level: Traveller Health Unit (THU)
For the first time, in 1995 a report found that the health needs of Travellers were not being met. To help bridge the gap between Traveller needs and healthcare provisions, the National Traveller Health Advisory Committee was established.
 National Level: National Traveller Health Advisory Committee (NTHAC)
Pavee Point is a representative for Traveller health interests as a member of NTHAC and made extensive contributions to the formation of the National Traveller Health Strategy.

Mediation
Pavee Point began offering mediation services in 1999 with the hope of mending the relationship between the Traveller and settled communities, and to foster stronger ties within the travelling community as well. Mediation provides a non-violent setting for opposing parties to confront conflict in a civil manner. Participation in mediation is a voluntary act that operates best if there is an understanding of mutual respect. Each party is given the opportunity to clarify his/her problem, identify needs, and explore possible solutions before reaching an agreement. The most common issues among Travellers that may be resolved through mediation are: conflicts over the management of housing sites, unauthorised encampments, and illegal dumping.

The service was later discontinued due to funding cuts.

Community development
In 2005, Pavee Point hosted Traveller Focus Week from 3–10 December 2005. The theme of the week was recognition, because the recognition of Travellers as an ethnic minority by the Irish government and the rest of the world, is such a critical issue for the community. Events included a photo contest, a concert, a roundtable discussion on equality, and the launch of the parental education DVD, Pavee Parents Primary Concerns, among others. 2,000 participated in the events throughout the week.

Employment
Programs to promote and assist the employment of Travellers, especially in public service, are of critical importance to Pavee Point. The Civil Service Traveller Internship Program was organised by PP in 2005 to introduce Travellers to the public service work experience. The program entails a six-month paid internship with a government department or agency for approximately 20 Travellers.

International involvement
Pavee Point's decision to advocate for Travellers rights internationally, rather than in Ireland, is a definitive feature of its operations. As phrased in the 2003–05 tri-annual report: "Our rationale for this work is that many of the problems that Irish Travellers face, such as racism, exist outside of the country and are unlikely to be resolved at a national level alone." Working internationally has allowed PP to network with other minority groups, learn new strategies for activism, and to get Traveller rights issues into the current dialogue on international human rights.