[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gökhan Inler

national under-21 teams before making his debut for the Swiss senior team. On 2 September 2006, he made his senior international debut in a friendly against Venezuela in Basel. Inler played all of Switzerland's matches at UEFA Euro 2008 in which they were eliminated at the group stage on home soil.

In the absence of regular captain Alexander Frei, on 16 June 2010, Inler captained Switzerland in a 1–0 win against Spain in the group stage of the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Frei returned for the second group game, but Inler was again the captain in the third, a goalless draw with Honduras.

After Frei's retirement in 2011, Inler became the Swiss captain, and played all four matches as they reached the last 16 of the 2014 FIFA World Cup. He was left out of the Swiss squad for UEFA Euro 2016 due to his lack of game time at Leicester City during the 2015–16 season.

Style of play
A hard-working, tenacious, and tactically versatile midfielder, Inler is capable of aiding his team both defensively and offensively; an intelligent player, he is known both for his stamina and his movements off the ball, although his most prominent trait is his powerful and accurate striking ability from distance with both feet, and also from set pieces, which enables him to contribute to his team's offensive play with goals from midfield. Primarily a ball-winner, Inler is usually deployed as a central or defensive midfielder, where he is also capable of functioning creatively as a deep-lying playmaker in front of the defensive line, due to his vision, passing range, and ability to control the tempo of his team's play; his long passing accuracy allows him to effectively switch the play and create chances for teammates after winning back possession. Due to his height and physical attributes, he is also effective in the air.

Personal life
Inler, born and brought up in Switzerland, has parents of Turkish origin. He is a lifelong fan of Beşiktaş. In an interview, he stated that when he was young he used to go to Beşiktaş's training camps, which were close to the house he grew up in Switzerland.

Career statistics

Club

International

Source:

Honours
FC Zürich
Swiss Super League: 2005–06, 2006–07

Napoli
Coppa Italia: 2011–12, 2013–14
Supercoppa Italiana: 2014

Leicester City
Premier League: 2015–16

Beşiktaş J.K.
Süper Lig: 2016–17

İstanbul Başakşehir
Süper Lig: 2019–20

Adana Demirspor
TFF First League: 2020–21

References

External links

1984 births
Living people
People from Olten
Footballers from the canton of Solothurn
Swiss men's footballers
Turkish men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
FC Solothurn players
FC Basel players
FC Aarau players
FC Zürich players
Udinese Calcio players
SSC Napoli players
Leicester City F.C. players
Beşiktaş J.K. footballers
İstanbul Başakşehir F.K. players
Adana Demirspor footballers
Swiss Super League players
Serie A players
Premier League players
Süper Lig players
Switzerland men's under-21 international footballers
Turkey men's under-21 international footballers
Switzerland men's youth international footballers
UEFA Euro 2008 players
2010 FIFA World Cup players
2014 FIFA World Cup players
Swiss expatriate men's footballers
Turkish expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in Turkey
Turkish expatriate sportspeople in England
Turkish expatriate sportspeople in Italy
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in England
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in Italy
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in Turkey
Swiss people of Turkish descent