[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Refugees in New Zealand

us on the Asia-Pacific region, which is allocated 50% on the annual refugee quota. This change followed criticism of the Government's refugee resettlement policy by refugee advocates Guled Mire and Murdoch Stephens, petition from World Vision, and comments from Race Relations Commissioner Meng Foon.

On 16 May 2020, the Green Party's immigration spokesperson Golriz Ghahraman announced that the Government will be doubling the cap on New Zealands' family reunification scheme from 300 to 600 over the next three years under a new NZ$21 million funding boost. For the first time in the programme's history, funding would go towards the programme that would take away some of the burden on sponsoring families.

In mid-March 2022, the New Zealand Government introduced a two-year work visa programme allowing New Zealand citizens and residents of Ukrainian descent to sponsor Ukrainian family members seeking to shelter in New Zealand following the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. This "Special Ukraine Policy" aims to bring over 4,000 Ukrainians to New Zealand and comes with work and study rights.

On 24 March 2022, the New Zealand and Australian Governments agreed to accept 450 asylum seekers over a three year period from the Nauru Regional Processing Centre and those temporarily in Australia for "processing." Refugees being resettled in New Zealand will have to go through the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) process and meet the criteria for NZ's refugee quota requirements. The Morrison government had decided to accept a 2012 deal between former New Zealand Prime Minister John Key and Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard for New Zealand to accept several asylum seekers who had traveled to Australia by sea. Subsequent Australian governments had reneged on New Zealand's offer due to concerns that it would encourage more asylum seekers to travel by boat to Australia and that former asylum seekers could enter Australia via New Zealand.

The refugee quota (resettlement) 
Each year, New Zealand accepts 1,500 as part of an agreement with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, whereby their status has been "mandated" or authenticated by the UNHCR. Because New Zealand is inaccessible by refugee coming by boat or a land bridge, New Zealand offers a resettlement programme. Included within this quota are places for women at risk, medical/disabled, large scale crisis response and emergency protection cases. In doing so they offer a preferential option for those who are already marginalised and vulnerable, and the most difficult to place. For this New Zealand had gained international respect for its humanitarianism, though in recent years the numbers of medical/disabled and emergency places have been close to zero.

Settlement locations

Those refugees arriving under the UNHCR quota, arrive in Auckland in groups of about 180, and stay for the first six weeks at the Mangere Refugee Resettlement Centre. They are offered a programme of residential and employment orientation, and then move off to one of the seven major resettlement areas, Auckland (restricted to family connected cases in 2016), Hamilton, Palmerston North, Wellington, Nelson, Christchurch, Dunedin and, Invercargill. To accommodate the increased refugee quota in 2020 and the pressure in other regions, five more regions – Levin, Masterton, Blenheim, Timaru and Ashburton – were added as resettlement locations.

Asylum seekers who apply for refugee status on shore are usually allowed to live in the community, with none being placed in prison or detention since a report and inquiry in 2021. If they are found to be genuine refugees they will be granted residence, then they are technically able to access Social welfare in New Zealand and the same benefits provided by the state as any permanent resident. In practice, however, accessing these services is a slow and difficult process.

Double The Quota campaign
In June 2013 Doing Our Bit, a small Wellington-based charitable trust led by Murdoch Stephens launched the Double The Quota campaign. The campaign had two goals: to double the number of refugees welcomed through the annual resettlement quota from 750 to 1500 and to double the funding for resettlement services. The campaign justified this increase based on population growth since the quota was set at 800 places in 1987, and a sharp decrease in the number of asylum seekers accepted from 2001 onwards. They argued that the quota had not increased for three decades, that Australia welcomed five times as many refugees per capita as New Zealand, and that New Zealand ranked around 90th in the world at hosting refugees per capita.