[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Heshui Campaign

nationalist defense, but the defenders would not let them succeed: while the enemy was busy attacking, the defenders sent out a large force via tunnels to counterattack the attacking enemy from behind, and inflicted heavy casualties on the communist attackers, which was forced to halt their attack.

The stubborn and successful nationalist defense of the town of Heshui was completed unexpected by the enemy, who was hoping for an easy victory, and Wang Zhen, the commander of the communist 2nd Column, had to go to the front line to direct the combat himself.  By the evening, the battle mainly continued at the southern sections of the city wall and enemy artillery heavily shelled the nationalist positions in the night.  By midnight, the attacking enemy had blown away all of the obstacles outside, but failed to blow up the gate and a section of city wall as they had hoped, and the charging enemy force discovered that there were no gaps they could utilize after reaching the city wall. Taking the advantage, the defenders mobilized everyone including cooks and medics to launch an all-out counterattack, again inflicting heavy casualties on the trapped enemy at the foot of the city wall, especially the 718th Regiment of the 359th Brigade and the 12th Regiment of the Independent 4th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column.  After more than two hours of fierce fighting, the defenders had successfully beaten back the enemy once again.  The defenders suffered heavily in the counterattack, with the commander of the nationalist Gansu 2nd Security Regiment, Li Hongxuan (), badly wounded in the battle. The attackers would later learn after the campaign that the same extension of the urban defense that prevented them from taking the town had also prevented Li Zicheng from doing so three hundred years before for three times, and it was only after the extension was neutralized, that Li Zicheng and his peasantry army were able to finally succeed in taking the town of Heshui.

Third Stage
On May 29, 1947, the news of the enemy besieging the town of Heshui had finally struck the commander of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division guarding the town of Western Peak, Ma Jiyuan, who realized this was not a concentration of enemy guerillas attempting to harassing the local garrison, so he ordered the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade at Qingyang to reinforce the besieged town, under the leadership of its brigade commander Ma Buluan (), with the 1st Regiment of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade as the advance guard.  The 1st Regiment of the nationalist Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade was originally the nationalist 1st Cavalry Division which was later renamed as the 8th Cavalry Division during the Second Sino-Japanese War, and it was stationed in eastern Henan, fighting countless battles with the Japanese invaders who grew to respect the nationalist cavalry unit, calling it "Ma's Islamic Division".  After World War II, the unit returned to Qinghai from Xuzhou and was subsequently reorganized as the 1st Regiment of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division.  When the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was deployed to eastern Gansu during the Chinese Civil War, the 1st Regiment of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was deployed to the town of Red City (Chi Cheng, ) 15 km southeast of Qingyang.  However, units of the Independent Brigade of the communist 2nd Column had already infiltrated into regions south of Qingyang, and unaware of the enemy strength, the nationalists did not want to risk being ambushed on the way, so they decided to concentrate their forces by going to Qingyang after leaving Red City. As a result, when the nationalist reinforcement finally begun their march toward Heshui, it was already late in the evening.  In order to save time, the nationalists took a route in a valley 15 km to the east of Qingyang without sending out scouts ahead.