[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Battle of Ayta ash-Shab

"martyr of Ayta", but he was killed  in an air strike near the village of Barish further to the north. He was an logistics officer and one of the three highest ranked Hizbullah commanders to die in the war. 
The IDF, on the other hand, claimed that 40 Hizbullah guerrillas were killed in the battle.

Two Hizbullah fighters were taken prisoner by the IDF during the battle of Ayta ash-Sha'b. The captured fighters were not recognized as prisoners-of-war. In September 2006 the two prisoners were put on trial, together with a third prisoner, Mahir Kourani, who was captured a few days later at the village of Shihin. The three were accused of a long series of criminal offenses, including "providing service to an illegal association," "weapons training in Iran and Lebanon without government permission," "conspiracy to commit a crime," and "conspiracy to commit murder" as well as participation in the kidnapping and attempted kidnapping of Israeli soldiers. Before the trial was concluded the three prisoners (including the fourth prisoner, Khadr Zaidan, who was captured at al-Ghandouriya) were released in the 2008 prisoner exchange.

According to a spokesman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, only 100 of the 1300 houses in the town remained after the war. In spite of the widespread destruction in Ayta ash-Sha'b, there were surprisingly few civilian casualties. According to Lebanese sources only eight civilian residents were killed in the war. The main reason for this seems to have been that the great majority of the civilian population had been evacuated from the town early in the conflict. According to a Human Rights Watch report two of the civilian fatalities were actually killed outside the town. On 19 July Zaynab Salah Jawad, aged 7, and her brother Kawthar, 4, were killed when a 155 mm artillery shell struck the private home in the nearby Christian village of Rumaysh, where the family had sought refuge after being evacuated from Ayta ash-Sha'b. One man was killed 20 July by an missile fired by a helicopter. An elderly couple and their son in his forties were killed the day after when their home was destroyed by an air strike.

The IDF announced that 28 Israeli soldiers, five of them officers, were killed in 33 days of fighting in and around the town. Five of them died in the illfated rescue attempt at the border on 12 July, thirteen fell inside the town of Ayta and ten were killed in the nearby village of Dibil).

Islamic Resistance fatalities 
The Municipality of Ayta ash-Sha’b published the following casualty list.

Fighters from Ayta ash-Sha’b
 al-Sayyid Yousuf Muhammad as-Sayyid
 Muhammad Ni’ma Rida 
 Muhammad Kamal Surour
 Younis Ya’qoub Surour
 Shadi Hani Sa’d
 Muhammad Mousa Surour
 Wajeeh Muhammad Tuhaini
 al-Sayyid Hisham Muhsin Murtada

Fighters from other Lebanese localities
 Hassan Qa’iq 
 Ali Abdul-Muhsin Khalil
 Hasan Muhammad Muhsin

Fighters from Ayta ash-Sha’b killed in other battles of 2006 war
 Commander Muhammad Wahbi Surour

Islamic Resistance prisoners-of-war 
 Muhammad Surour
 Hussein Suleiman (captured in Ayta but a resident of Beirut)

Lebanese civilian fatalities 
 Hajj Rida Rida
 Hajja Haniya Surour
 Hajj Ahmad Rida
 Ahmad Abdul-Nabi
 Hajj Hassan Rida
 Ali Hassan Daqdouq 
 Kawthar Salah Jawad (killed in Rumaysh)
 Zaynab Salah Jawad (killed in Rumaysh)

Israeli fatalities 
12 July 2006
 Staff-Sergeant Alexei Kushnirski (tank commander, 82nd Bat. of the 7th Brigade), 21, of Ness Ziona
 Staff-Sergeant Yaniv Bar-on (2nd Bat. of the 7th Brigade), 20, of Maccabim
 Sergeant Gadi Mosayev (2nd Bat. of the 7th Brigade), 20, of Akko
 Sergeant Shlomi Yirmiyahu (2nd Bat. of the 7th Brigade), 20, of Rishon LeZion
 Sergeant Nimrod Cohen (Nahal Brigade), 19, of Mitzpe Shalem

1 August 2006
 Lieutenant Ilan Gabai (Paratroopers 101 Bat.), 21, of Kiryat Tivon
 Staff-Sergeant Yonatan Einhorn (Paratroopers 101 Bat.), 22, of Moshav Gimzo
 Staff-Sergeant Michael Levin (Paratroopers 890 Bat.), 21, of Jerusalem

2 August 2006
 Sergeant Adi Cohen (Paratrooper 101 Bat.), 18, of Hadera

5 August 2006
 Corporal (res.) Kiril Kashdan (Carmeli brigade), 26, of Haifa

7 August 2006
 Staff-Sergeant Philip Mosko (Paratroopers 101 Bat.), 21 

9 August 2006
 Captain (res.) Gilad Stukelman (847th reserve brigade), 26, of Moshav Timrat
 Sergeant-Major.(res.) Noam Goldman (847th reserve brigade), 27, of Tel Aviv
 Staff-Sergeant (res.) Nir Cohen (847th reserve brigade), 22, of Maccabim
 Staff-Sergeant (res.) Ben (Binyamin) Sela (847th reserve brigade), 24, of Koranit