[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# People in Need

reached an agreement regarding the elimination of unfair terms for credit agreements at all Czech banks. In 2011, PIN completed a nearly three-year campaign of indexing predatory lending to the Roma in Slovakia. Thanks to this campaign, the vast majority of companies modified the provision of loans.

Promotion of human rights
The Center for Human Rights and Democracy (HRD), a department within PIN, works abroad and mainly supports people and groups who face persecution, bullying, or imprisonment for their views or activities, usually independent of state power, in countries with repressive regimes.

PIN has been working in the field of human rights since the late 1990s. Their primary focus is the support of political prisoners (and their families) and civil society initiatives. Families of political prisoners, from harshly repressive regimes such as Myanmar and Cuba, are provided with financial and humanitarian assistance as well as moral support. The assistance covers a number of countries and areas where the situation is constantly poor or deteriorating. It provides direct financial, humanitarian and moral support to the families of political prisoners in harshly repressive regimes, which is largely funded by the Friends of People in Need Club. The organization is involved in various activities aimed at raising awareness of human rights violations around the world and finding broader public and political support for their protection.

Thus, HRD works in several dictatorships and many countries globally. A major part of PIN's work is advocacy for dissidents, opposition activists, and the development of a civil society in countries controlled by authoritarian regimes. In regards to its experience with communist and former communist regimes, HRD has programs in Eastern Europe (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Moldova-Transnistria, and Ukraine), Latin America (Cuba, Venezuela, Ecuador, Honduras, and Nicaragua), Egypt, Libya, and Vietnam. PIN also have involvement in other parts of Asia. For example, Myanmar continues to be a country of concern and PIN has supported groups advocating for a civil society there since 1997.

In November 2019, the Russian Ministry of Justice included People in Need on the list of organizations that are undesirable in Russia. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic Tomáš Petříček commented on this step, saying that he considered it absurd and demanded an explanation. He also said that the ban on human rights in Russia was a sign of the country's poor human rights record.

Education and outreach
Educational programmes focus on students and teachers in Czech primary and secondary schools, universities, and other professional groups (such as employees at employment centers or the police). Educational programmes are implemented via presentation of documentary films accompanied by topical discussions (e.g. One World at schools), an information service about intercultural education and global development (variations programme) for teachers, as well as the promotion of ties between institutions and NGOs working in the field of social exclusion (Social Integration Programme).

People in Need focuses on providing appropriate information to the Czech public, the government and the media. Long and short-term campaigns are implemented in film screenings, discursive evenings, creative competitions, and trips for journalists who address specific issues such as development cooperation (Rozvojovka, Stop child labor). Campaigns include public actions and projects involving the gathering of information and materials on migration and foreigners living in the Czech Republic.

PIN publishes what calls the 'Predator Index', a ranking of companies that provide unguaranteed loans, with inappropriate terms and conditions for the debtor. The index is compiled on the basis of the clarity of contract and conditions, the presence of default interest in excess of statutory regulations, the cost of a delayed payment in the form of penalties, the cost of the loan in the case of timely payment and the proper use of the arbitration clause.

One World Film Festival

Every year, People in Need organizes the largest human rights film festival in Europe, held in Prague, Czech Republic, called One World (Czech: Jeden Svět), which received honorable reference for its work on education of human rights by UNESCO in 2007. It is the largest documentary film festival on human rights in the world - over one hundred films from around the world are featured. The festival works with a broad definition of human rights, so the program includes films not only on political and developmental issues, but also on environmental and social issues. The films are featured in Prague in March, followed by more than thirty cities throughout the country and in Brussels. The most successful documentaries are featured on the website www.promitejity. where they can be viewed for free.