[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vietnamese passport

his page. If a passport is issued inside Vietnam, the issuing authority will be Cục Quản lý Xuất nhập cảnh/ Vietnam Immigration Department. If a passport is issued outside of Vietnam the issuing authority will be Đại sứ quán Việt Nam tại (quốc gia)/ Embassy of Vietnam in (country's name)

Data page 

The fourth page provides data of the passport bearer (visual inspection zone) and a machine-readable zone:

 Type [of document, which is "P" for "personal", "D" for "diplomatic", "F" for "official"]
 Code [of the issuing country, which is "VNM" for "Vietnam"]
 Passport N° [Start with a letter, followed by 8 numbers]
 Surname
 Given Names
 Nationality (VIỆT NAM/VIETNAMESE)
 Date of birth
 Sex (M or F)
 ID card N°
 Date of issue
 Date of expiry
 Place of issue
 Machine-readable zone

Prior to 1 July 2022, all Vietnamese passports had the "Place of birth" filed, which showed the province of birth of the holder (or the country of birth, if born overseas), The new passport design have removed this field, which has caused problem for immigration authorities, particularly in Europe (see below).

Visa pages 
Starting with the new design, selected nature hotspots and famous sights of Vietnam are printed in the inner pages, including:

 National Assembly Building of Vietnam
 Temple of Literature
 Lũng Cú Flag Tower
 Mount Fansipan
 Hạ Long Bay
 Hùng Temple
 Imperial Citadel of Thăng Long
 Tràng An
 Citadel of the Hồ Dynasty
 Imperial City of Huế
 Hội An's Old Quarter
 Mỹ Sơn Sanctuary
 Dragon House
 Hanoi Opera House

Observations 

Located after the data page, the observation page contains the official seal of the Department of Immigration. In addition, the place of birth is printed here (upon request of the bearer).

Controversies 
The new passport redesign from July 2022 remove the "Place of birth" field on the passport. While place of birth isn't required in ICAO's passport standard, most countries include it in their passport (except South Korean passport, Swiss passport and Canadian passport - the latter only at request). As a result, some countries in the Schengen Area have refused to issue a visa and/or refuse admission to holder of new Vietnamese passport.

States' concerns and denials of admission

Germany 
On 28 July 2022, the German embassy in Hanoi released a press release saying it cannot grant visa to holders of Vietnam's new passports as they lack information of one's place of birth, making it difficult for verification. Vietnam's new passports, which began issuance since July 1, have not been recognized in Germany yet and their holders cannot apply for visa as the passports lack information regarding places of birth.

The press release further explained that: "German authorities cannot find information regarding places of birth based solely on a person's personal identification numbers as shown on their passports, it added. It means German authorities would need to verify one's identity manually with a 7-page list provided by the Vietnamese authorities, and not everyone has the list." As a result, holders of Vietnam's new passports, with dark blue cover instead of the traditional green ones, would not be able to apply for a C or D visa to enter Germany, and holders of the new passports who have already been granted a valid German visa could be denied entry at the border.

In response, the Vietnamese embassy in Germany will issue a certificate confirming the birthplace of holders of Vietnam's new passports. The embassy added that the two countries are "actively discussing" how to resolve the problems related to Germany's refusal to recognize the new Vietnamese passport on the grounds that it lacks information about the holder's place of birth.

Spain 
On 1 August 2022, the Spanish embassy in Hanoi released an announcement saying that they couldn't issue new visas to holder of the new Vietnamese passport, due to the lack of place of birth. The announcement said in detailed that: "Place of birth is an important information to identify passport holder, and is required for the issuance of a Schengen visa. Therefore, we cannot issue new visa to holder of new Vietnamese passport. As a result, Spanish authorities and authorities of other nations in Schengen bloc, are currently discussing ways to resolve this issue."

Czech Republic 
In a statement released in the morning of 2 August 2022, which in part read: "Vietnam's new passport issued on July 1 does not meet the technical standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). Therefore, the Czech Republic agrees with other member countries of the European Union (EU) to stop recognizing it." The statement however did not specify whether the Czech Republic will stop issuing visas for the new Vietnamese passports.