[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Čelebići camp

for collective violations of international law since World War II. The ICTY found that a superior could be held criminally responsible for failing to prevent crimes by subordinates whether this position was held legally or in practice, and whether the superior was a civilian or a military commander.

The judgment created a precedent by defining "inhuman conditions" in the prison camp, upholding a clause in the 1949 Geneva Convention, which prohibits "violence to life and person, in particular murder of all kinds, mutilation, cruel treatment and torture." In reaching its decision, the ICTY also made a landmark judgement by qualifying rape as a form of torture, the first such judgement by an international criminal tribunal.

Appeals and release
On 20 February 2001, Appeal judges quashed charges related to the violations of the laws and customs of war for the three convicts, ruling that a single offence could not be judged on two separate articles. Their original sentencing was also sent for review. On 9 October 2001, Delić's sentence was reduced to 18 years while Landžo's original sentence was upheld and Mucić's was extended from 7 to 9 years. Their sentences were upheld on 8 April 2003 after appeals. Mucić was granted early release on 18 July 2003. On 10 July 2003, Delić and Landžo were transferred to Finland to serve out the remainder of their sentences. On 13 April 2006, Landžo was granted early release. Delić was granted early release on 24 June 2008. Both were given credit for time served since 2 May 1996.

Post-ICTY developments
In 2012, the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina sentenced Eso Macic, a former guard at the camp, to 15 years in prison for the beating and killing of prisoners. A second instance verdict reduced his sentence to 13 years in 2013 and following an appeal, his sentence was further reduced to 11 years in 2015.

In 2019, fourteen former members of the TO, Akrepi Commando and Reconnaissance Squad, HVO and the Konjic police force went on trial at the Bosnian State Court, charged with the murders, detentions, rape, torture and mistreatment of the Serb population in Konjic, as well as burning their property and the local Orthodox church. They also served as guards at the Čelebići camp.

See also
Silos camp
Gabela camp
Heliodrom camp
Keraterm camp
Manjača camp
Musala camp
Omarska camp
Trnopolje camp
Uzamnica camp
Vilina Vlas
Vojno camp

Footnotes

References
ICTY documents and reports

 
 
 
 
 
 

News articles

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Books

 
 
 
 

Journals

 

Other

External links
 

Bosniak war crimes in the Bosnian War
Croatian war crimes in the Bosnian War
Bosnian War internment camps
Croatian concentration camps in the Yugoslav Wars
Persecution of Serbs
1992 establishments in Bosnia and Herzegovina
1992 disestablishments in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Konjic