[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Unidirectional network

st (OPEX) cost as there are no rules to maintain. Although there will be software updates to be installed. Often these devices need to be maintained by the vendors.
The unidirectional software layer cannot be configured to allow two-way traffic due to the physical disconnection of the RX or TX line.

Weaknesses 
As of June 2015, unidirectional gateways were not yet commonly used or well understood.
Unidirectional gateways are unable to route the majority of network traffic and break most protocols.
Cost; data diodes were originally expensive, although lower cost solutions are now available.
Specific use cases that require a two-way data flow can be difficult to achieve.

Variations 
The simplest form of a unidirectional network is a modified, fiber-optic network link, with send and receive transceivers removed or disconnected for one direction, and any link failure protection mechanisms disabled. Some commercial products rely on this basic design, but add other software functionality that provides applications with an interface which helps them pass data across the link.

All-optical data diodes can support very high channel capacities and are among the simplest.  In 2019, Controlled Interfaces demonstrated its (now patented) one-way optical fiber link using 100G Commercial Off The Shelf transceivers in a pair of Arista network switch platforms.  No specialized driver software is required.

Other more sophisticated commercial offerings enable simultaneous one-way data transfer of multiple protocols that usually require bidirectional links. The German companies INFODAS and GENUA have developed software based ("logical") data diodes that use a Microkernel Operating system to ensure unidirectional data transfer. Due to the software architecture these solutions offer higher speed than conventional hardware based data diodes.

ST Engineering, have developed its own Secure e-Application Gateway, consisting of multiple data diodes and other software components, to enable real-time bi-directional HTTP(S) web services transactions over the internet while protecting the secured networks from both malicious injects and data leakage.

In 2018, Siemens Mobility released an industrial grade unidirectional gateway solution in which the data diode, Data Capture Unit, uses electromagnetic induction and new chip design to achieve an EBA safety assessment, guaranteeing secure connectivity of new and existing safety critical systems up to Safety integrity level (SIL) 4 to enable secure IoT and provide data analytics and other cloud hosted digital services.

In 2022, Fend Incorporated released a data diode capable of acting as a Modbus Gateway with full optical isolation. This diode is targeted at industrial markets and critical infrastructure serving to bridge old outdated technology with newer IT systems. The diode also functions as a Modbus converter, with the ability to connect to serial RTU systems on one side and Ethernet TCP systems on the other.

The US Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) has developed its own unidirectional network called the Network Pump. This is in many ways similar to DSTO's work, except that it allows a limited backchannel going from the high side to the low side for the transmission of acknowledgments. This technology allows more protocols to be used over the network, but introduces a potential covert channel if both the high- and low-side are compromised through artificially delaying the timing of the acknowledgment.

Different implementations also have differing levels of third party certification and accreditation. A cross domain guard intended for use in a military context may have or require extensive third party certification and accreditation. A data diode intended for industrial use, however, may not have or require third party certification and accreditation at all, depending on the application.

Notable vendors  
 Terafence Pvt. Ltd. - India
 Advenica - Sweden
 Arbit Cyber Defence - Denmark
 BAE Systems - US/UK
 Fend Incorporated - US
 Forcepoint - US
Fox-IT - NL
 Owl Cyber Defense - US
 PATTON - US
 Siemens - Germany
 ST Engineering - Singapore
 Waterfall Security - Israel

See also 
Bell–LaPadula model for security
Network tap
Intrusion detection system

References

External links
Patton Blog: Employing Simplex Data Circuits for Ultra-High-Security Networking
SANS Institute Paper on Tactical Data Diodes in Industrial Automation and Control Systems.
Guide to Industrial Control Systems (ICS) Security United States Department of Commerce - National Institute of Standards and technology on data diode use on Industrial Control Systems.
Improving Industrial Control System Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies United States Department of Homeland - Security Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team on data diode use.

Networking hardware
Computer network security