[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# David Hunter Strother

David Hunter Strother (September 26, 1816 – March 8, 1888) was an American journalist, artist, brevet Brigadier General, innkeeper, politician and diplomat from West Virginia. Both before and after the American Civil War (in which he was initially a war correspondent), Strother was a successful 19th-century American magazine illustrator and writer, popularly known by his pseudonym, "Porte Crayon" (French, porte-crayon: "pencil/crayon holder"). He helped his father operate a 400-guest hotel at Berkeley Springs, which was at the time the only spa accessible by rail in the mid-Atlantic states. A Union topographer and nominal cavalry commander during the war, Strother rose to the rank of brevet Brigadier General of Volunteers, and afterward restructured the Virginia Military Institute, as well as serving as U.S. consul in Mexico (1879–1885).

Early and family life

Born in Martinsburg, Berkeley County, Virginia (now West Virginia) in 1816 to colonel John Strother and his wife Elizabeth Pendleton Hunter, David Strother was the first of their eight children and the only male to reach adulthood. Both sides of his family (especially his mother's) were among the First Families of Virginia and included prominent political and military leaders even before successful participation in the American Revolutionary War. His grandfather fought in the navy then army during that conflict before moving to Berkeley County, and his father was a lieutenant in the War of 1812, then led the Berkeley County militia as well as served as ran a hotel and served as first assistant clerk to his father-in-law (then clerk of the county's circuit court) and eventually county clerk, all for many years (although at least once defeated by Democrat Harrison Waite). His mother attended the local Presbyterian church and his father the local Episcopal church; as an adult Strother lost interest in sectarian religion.

Over his father's objection, 32-year-old David Strother married 19-year-old Anne Doyne Wolfe, daughter of a Martinsburg saddler in 1849, and the following year they had a daughter, Emily, who survived to adulthood and became the wife of John Brisben Walker. On May 6, 1861, he married, Mary Elliott (1832–1914) in Jefferson County who bore sons David Hunter Strother Jr. (1866–1871) and John Strother (1868–1923). As many as six of his children may have died young, per tombstones.

Education and early career
After some time at the Martinsburg academy, as well as his father's tutelage, David Strother traveled to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to study drawing under Pietro Ancora at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in 1829. He had not been robust enough to secure a place at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Strother also spent a year (1832) at Jefferson College in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, After desultory studies in law and medicine, and a continued inability to obtain a position at West Point, now because of his father's lack of political clout in the Jacksonian era, Strother and friend John Ranson in 1835 took a 500-mile (805 km) round trip hike in the Blue Ridge and Appalachian mountains, down to Natural Bridge and Rockbridge County, Virginia, and back up through the Shenandoah Valley, which changed his outlook on life.

In 1837–38, on the recommendation of Winchester's John Gadsby Chapman, Strother traveled to New York City to study painting under Samuel F. B. Morse, who later became more famous for inventing the telegraph. Strother traveled along the Ohio River and in the Midwest in 1838–1839 (visiting cousins in Louisville, Kentucky, and St. Louis, Missouri, as well as painting various portraits in Indiana and Illinois).

Having raised some money selling portraits, and his father also having borrowed money for the study trip, Strother embarked for Europe in the fall of 1839, traveling as a student and artist rather than an aristocrat. After briefly visiting England and spending more time in France (witnessing Napoleon's funeral in Paris), he completed an Italian itinerary Chapman had recommended. He also learned to his surprise that his father had forwarded his amusing letters home to the Martinsburg Gazette, where they acquired a devoted following. Strother returned to the United States in the spring of 1843, unable to continue to Greece and Turkey because of his father's financial reverses and the lack of work for expatriate Americans in Europe.