[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Carey Cavanaugh

included regular student attendance at the Middle East Institute's annual conference in Washington, DC and participation in the annual Doha Forum in Qatar.  His teaching focuses on diplomacy, negotiation, mediation and conflict resolution; the diplomacy of nuclear weapons; and international ethics.

Cavanaugh has served repeatedly as a senior scholar for IREX (International Research & Exchanges Board).  He was a founding board member of the Henry Clay Center for Statesmanship (HCCS) in 2007 and until 2013 developed the curriculum for its annual student congress. From 2012-2016, he was a member of the advisory council of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars' Kennan Institute. He works frequently with the United States Army War College Center for Strategic Leadership, helping conduct negotiation and conflict resolution exercises at select American universities.

From 2014-2017, Cavanaugh was involved in a multi-year effort to address the problem of fraternity hazing on college and university campuses in the United States and Canada, serving on a presidential commission for the North American Interfraternity Conference (NIC) The commissioners' report impacted more than 5,500 fraternity chapters on more than 800 campuses with approximately 350,000 members.

Engagement with Peacebuilding Organizations
Since leaving the Foreign Service, Cavanaugh has engaged with international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in a variety of dialogue and peacebuilding initiatives.  From 2006-2008, he participated in high-level mediation retreats in Europe and Asia co-hosted by the Geneva-based Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue, the Royal Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the China Institute of International Studies.  These fora were designed to improve the mediation of armed conflict by providing a discrete venue for practitioners to share expertise and promote best practices. In 2007, he joined Dame Margaret Anstee and Elizabeth Rehn in an effort to encourage the appointment of more women to senior international mediation and special envoy positions at the United Nations, European Union and OSCE. He also assisted the former World Security Institute with its Caucasus project, engaging scholars from Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia to build cross-cultural understanding.

In 2009, Cavanaugh took part in Conciliation Resources' "Karabakh 2014" project which commissioned papers from Armenian and Azerbaijani analysts to explore scenarios for the state of the conflict five years hence. Afterwards, he has worked through 2019 with the Karabakh Contact Group.  This civil society effort, funded by the European Partnership for the Peaceful Settlement of the Conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh, has brought together activists and experts representative of all the parties to the conflict (along with outside specialists), giving them the opportunity to exchange information face-to-face, share perspectives, and jointly think through key issues impeding the peace process.   He has also been part of other Track 1.5 & Track 2 diplomacy efforts related to the countries formed following the collapse of the Soviet Union.

Cavanaugh served as a director and trustee of Conciliation Resources from 2014-2018. This London-based international NGO was then engaged in supporting peace efforts in Colombia, the South Caucasus, Kashmir, the Philippines, Liberia and Sierra Leone (Mano River), Côte d'Ivoire, Nigeria, the Central African Republic, Uganda, and Fiji.

In 2018, Cavanaugh was appointed chairman of the Board of Trustees of International Alert. This major peacebuilding NGO was established in 1986, with Martin Ennals (former Secretary General of Amnesty International) as Secretary General and Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu as Vice Chairman.  Headquartered in London, with a European office in The Hague, International Alert has staff based in 19 countries partnering with over 800 organizations on projects designed to shape policies and practices to advance peace and working with people directly affected by international conflict.   Alert's principal geographic areas of operation are Africa, Asia and the Middle East, but it is also currently supporting peace activities in Colombia, the South Caucasus and Ukraine.  Cavanaugh stepped down from this position in 2023.

Additional affiliations and activities
Cavanaugh is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations (New York), the International Institute for Strategic Studies (London), and the American Foreign Service Association (Washington). For more than a decade, he has been a regular speaker in cities across the United States for the American Committees on Foreign Relations. He also sits on the Kentucky advisory committee of the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition (Washington), a grouping of businesses and non-profits that encourages greater support and funding for diplomacy and development.