[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Macedonian Australians

the fastest growing Macedonian community in Australia. Community spokespersons claim that there are over 4000 Macedonians in Queensland. Although only 927 Macedonians speakers were recorded in the 1996 census and 1,144 in 2006. In 2006 1,829 persons claimed Macedonian Ancestry.

 Aegean Macedonians 

The Aegean Macedonian people have had a long history in Australia. In 19th Century pečalba, working away from home, was a widespread Macedonian custom. The first Aegean Macedonian was Stojan Kenkov who came to Australian in 1914. Pre-World War Two migration occurred in two waves: the first, in 1924, when the USA imposed heavy immigration restrictions and the second, after 1936, when the 4 August Regime of General Ioannis Metaxas took power in Greece. The third wave occurred after the Greek Civil War when many ethnic Macedonians fled Greece. Charles Price estimates that by 1940 there were 670 Ethnic Macedonians from Florina and 370 from Kastoria resident in Australia. Peter Hill also estimates a figure of 50,000 Aegean Macedonians (including those born in Australia and excluding Slavophone Macedonians who identify as Greeks). 2.5% of adherents to the Macedonian Orthodox Church in Australia were born in Greece while 3,152 speakers of Macedonian were born in Greece and 2,919 people born in Greece claimed ethnic Macedonian ancestry or roughly 3.6% of the total population group.

Aegean Macedonians were essential in the establishment of the Macedonian Australia People league (Macedonian: Makedono-Avstraliski Naroden Sojuz) which dominated ethnic Macedonian life throughout the 1940s and 1950s. They then went on to establish organisations and events such as Macedonian Cultural Week, Preston Makedonija, Makedonska Iskra, Macedonian Community of S.A, Nova Makedonija and many others. There are Aegean Macedonian minorities in Richmond, Melbourne, Manjimup, Shepparton, Wanneroo and Queanbeyan. The Church of St George and the Florina Community Centre and Day Care center was built in Shepparton the Aegean Macedonian hall - Kotori was built by 32 families from the village Kotori in Richmond. Another Church was established by Aegean Macedonians in Queanbeyan and a hall erected in Manjimup. Other Aegean Macedonians organisations include the "Macedonian Aegean Association of Australia" and the "Richmond Aegean Macedonian Cultural and Sporting Association.

 Sports 

Many Macedonians in Australia are involved with Soccer and other sports. Some of the various clubs they have helped to establish are:

New South Wales
Sydney

Bankstown City Lions or Sydney MacedoniaRockdale City Suns or Rockdale IlindenYagoona Lions or Yagoona MacedoniaArncliffe Scots or Arncliffe MacedoniaWollongong
Wollongong United or Wollongong MacedoniaLake Heights JFC
Cringila Lions 
Coniston Lions or Coniston MacedoniaShell Cove Barbarians or Illawarra PelisterNewcastle
Broadmeadow Magic or Newcastle MacedoniaNewcastle Suns 
Macedonia Junior SC

Queanbeyan
Queanbeyan City or Queanbeyan MakedoniaVictoria
Melbourne
Preston Lions or Preston Makedonia (originally "the Makedonia Soccer Club")
Altona Magic or Altona VardarPascoe Vale or PelisterSydenham Park SC or Sydenham Park MacedoniaPlenty Valley Lions or LerinLalor United or Lalor SlogaPlenty Valley Lions or Lerin FCKeilor Wolves or Keilor PelagonijaNoble Park SC or Vesela MakedoniaAltona Lions or Altona IlindenFootscray United Vardar

Geelong
Geelong SC or Geelong MacedoniaShepparton
Shepparton SC or Shepparton MakedoniaWestern Australia
Stirling Macedonia

South Australia
Macedonia United Lions SC

Queensland
Sunshine Lions FC

Defunct teams 
Balcatta Ilinden
North Perth Vardar
Point Cook Lions
Slivica
Mogila
Beranci
Ohrid SC
Warrawong United
Mladost
Macedonian Eagles
Manjimup Macedonia

Religion

Most Macedonians in Australia are followers of the Macedonian Orthodox Church. Although there are many Macedonian Muslims and people who follow other branches of Christianity. In 1996 there were 53,152 followers of the Macedonian Orthodox Church, in 2001 there were 53,244 adherents. in 2006 this number had fallen to 48,084 people. There is a diocese of the Macedonian Orthodox Church for Australia and New Zealand. The Macedonian Orthodox Church is often shortened to MPC.

There are over 40 Macedonian Orthodox Churches in Operation throughout Australia, 3 monasteries and two Cathedrals. Most of them fall under the jurisdiction of the Macedonian Orthodox Church - Diocese for Australia and New Zealand. The monasteries are MPM- Свети Прохор Пчински/Saint Prohor Pcinski of Donnybrook, MPM- Свети Наум Охридски/Saint Naum of Ohrid of Kinglake and MPCO- Света Петка/Saint Petka of Kembla Grange. The Cathedrals are Macedonian Orthodox Cathedral- Свети Климент Охридски/Saint Kliment of Ohrid of Red Hill and Macedonian Orthodox Cathedral- Свети Кирил и Методиј/Saints Cyril and Methodius'' of Rosebery (autocephalous).