[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

This is a timeline of the Irish Civil War, which took place between June 1922 and May 1923. It followed the Irish War of Independence (1919–1921), and accompanied the establishment of the Irish Free State as an entity independent from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.

The conflict was waged between two opposing groups of Irish nationalists: the forces of the new Irish Free State, who supported the Anglo-Irish Treaty under which the state was established, and the republican opposition, for whom the Treaty represented a betrayal of the Irish Republic.

The government of the Irish Free State (established as a provisional government in January 1922 and as a full government in December 1922) was ultimately victorious. The anti-Treaty forces called a ceasefire in April 1923 and ordered their men to "dump arms" in May 1923.

The war involved both conventional warfare (late June–August 1922) when the Free State forces took the major towns and cities, and then a longer period of guerrilla warfare (September 1922 – April 1923) as the anti-Treaty forces were gradually brought to a standstill.

Build up

January 1922
7 January – The Anglo-Irish Treaty is passed in the Dáil (Parliament of the Irish Republic) by 64 votes to 57.
14 January – A Provisional Government is set up to administer the handover from British rule to the new Irish Free State. The Cabinet is almost the same as that of the Irish Republic, with the exception of Éamon de Valera, Cathal Brugha and Austin Stack, who resign over the acceptance of the Treaty.

February 1922
18 February – An Anti-Treaty IRA unit under Ernie O'Malley seizes an RIC barracks in Clonmel, taking 40 policemen prisoner and capturing 600 rifles and thousands of rounds of ammunition.
Anti-Treaty IRA leader Séumas Robinson closes down The Nationalist newspaper (Clonmel) over its support for the Treaty. Rory O'Connor has the Freeman's Journal closed down for the same reason.

March 1922
A stand-off occurs in Limerick between 700 pro-treaty IRA men under Michael Brennan and 800 Anti-Treaty IRA fighters under Ernie O'Malley over who will take over the military barracks, which were being abandoned by British troops. After negotiations between the mayor of Limerick, Stephen M. O'Mara, Anti-Treaty leader Liam Lynch and Pro-Treaty leader Richard Mulcahy, fighting is averted. On 12 March, it is decided that troops from outside Limerick will return to their own areas and that Limerick IRA men would divide the two military garrisons there between pro- and Anti-Treaty units. Limerick Corporation will oversee the maintenance of the RIC barracks.
More confrontations result over the occupation of former British garrisons at Birr, Renmore and Templemore.
17 March - IRA leaders meet in Dublin and set up a temporary council with Liam Lynch as chief of staff.
26 March – 200 IRA delegates meet in an "Army Convention" and vote to repudiate the Treaty. They also reject the authority of the Dáil to accept the Treaty and set up their own 16-man "Army Executive".
See also IRA and the Anglo-Irish Treaty
29 March – Anti-Treaty IRA units in Cork under Sean Hegarty raid the British tug Upnor at sea. They take between 400 and 1,500 rifles, 60 machine guns, 700 handguns and over 25,000 rounds of ammunition, which they then distribute to Anti-Treaty IRA units.
The Provisional Government's newly formed National Army takes over the British barracks at Beggar's Bush in Dublin.