[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ben Davies (footballer, born 1981)

cause, based on my performances, I didn't." Davies was eventually recalled to the starting line-up in April 2011, hitting the winner in a 2–1 victory over Leeds United, with an "unstoppable" 20-yard volley. Despite this, Davies was unable to hold down a regular place for the remainder of the season.

After playing an active role in Derby's pre-season fixtures, Davies found himself in the first team for the start of the 2011–12 season, playing every minute as Derby won their opening four fixtures for the first time in 106-years to find themselves in 2nd place in the early season table. The fourth victory, 3–0 over Doncaster Rovers, saw Davies open his account for the season as well as provide assists for the other two goals. Davies was rewarded with a place in the Championship Team of the Week, something he repeated following his performance in a 3–0 win over Millwall, a game in which he created two of Derby's three goals. The form of Davies dropped during November he was dropped from the starting 11 at the start of December, making only three substitute appearances until the start of March 2012, making an immediate impact as he set up a headed goal for Steve Davies within 2 minutes of coming on. With Davies restored to the starting eleven, Derby manager Nigel Clough urged Davies take advantage of the injury of Jamie Ward, stating the quality Davies can offer from set pieces and crosses. Davies was eventually credited with 11 assists during the 2011–12 season, 10 in the league and 1 in the League Cup.

In 2012–13, Davies lost his place as a regular member of the matchday squad and was restricted to limited substitute appearances and games as an overage player in Derby's under-21 team. Despite this Davies scored his first goal in 15 months in a 3–1 win against Leeds United Davies scoring in the stoppage time after being introduced in the 82nd minute of the game. Davies hoped this goal help regain his place in starting line up at Derby after he turned down several loan moves due to personal issues after his ten-month-old son Evan had health issues and had an eye operation. Davies began to feature more regularly for County after the turn of the year, and after impressing manager Nigel Clough with his performances in March and April, Davies was offered a new one-year contract at the end of April.

2013–14 saw Davies restricted to the League Cup and two substitute appearances in the opening stages of the season. After the sacking of Nigel Clough at the end of September, Davies appeared just twice more as a substitute and following an 89th-minute substitute in a 3–0 win over Sheffield Wednesday on 9 November 2013 he disappeared from the first team picture completely.

Sheffield United
Davies eventually linked up with former manager Clough in February 2014 when he signed for Sheffield United on loan until the end of the season. With United struggling with injuries, Davies was initially employed as a left-back and scored his first goal for the club from a free kick in a 2–0 home victory over Peterborough United at the start of March. Davies played regularly for United for the remainder of the season, appearing in a number of positions, and finished the campaign having made 20 appearances for the Blades and scored three goals. With his deal at Derby due to expire, United offered Davies a permanent contract in the summer of 2014, a deal which he duly signed the following month.

Davies was released when his contract expired at the end of the 2014–15 season.

Portsmouth
Following a pre-season trial Davies signed a one-year deal with Portsmouth on 6 August 2015. He scored his first goal for Portsmouth in a 6–0 win over York City on 24 November 2015. His consistent performances led to Davies being awarded six different player-of-the-season trophies from supporter groups, the biggest haul of any player and finished runner-up to Michael Doyle who won The News/Sports Mail Player of the Season award.

Davies left Portsmouth come the end of the 2015–16 season, this was due to both parties failing to agree terms, However he was keen for a two-year contract and an increase in salary.

Grimsby Town
On 29 June 2016, Davies signed a one-year contract with newly promoted League Two club Grimsby Town on a free transfer. He scored on his debut against Morecambe F.C. on Saturday 6 August 2016 with a free-kick to seal Grimsby's 2–0 win. Davies picked up a calf injury on 8 October 2008 in a 0–0 draw at Exeter City, this led to a two-month spell on the sidelines.

Following the end of 2016–17, during which he made 25 league appearances and scored one goal, Davies agreed a new one-year contract. Davies turned down offers from other clubs down south to stay at Grimsby. He was released by Grimsby at the end of the 2017–18 season.

Boston United
On 24 August 2018, Davies joined National League North club Boston United.

Cleethorpes Town
On 20 July 2019 it was confirmed that Davies had joined Cleethorpes Town.