[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maraden Panggabean

t security cooperation. In addition, Panggabean also wanted to send troops to assist the South Vietnamese in the Vietnam War. On this matter, Suharto sided with Malik.

In April 1978, Panggabean was discharged as Commander of the Indonesian National Armed Forces and Minister of Defense and Security.

Golkar
In addition to continuing his military career, Panggabean also began a political career by being involved in Golkar, the political party which Suharto had chosen as part of his re-election bid. In 1973, Panggabean became a member of the Golkar Executive Board before becoming Chairman of the Executive Board in 1974. He served in this position until 1978 when Suharto replaced him in the position. Nevertheless, Panggabean was retained as vice chairman of the executive board and served as the day-to-day chairman until 1988.

Government official
After being discharged as commander, Panggabean was named by Suharto as Coordinating Minister of Politics and Security. He served as Minister until 1983 when he was appointed Chairman of the Supreme Advisory Council. When his term ended in 1988, Panggabean retired from politics.

Other activities
In 1985, Panggabean became Advisory Chairman for the Joint Organization of Batak Tradition and Culture. In 1989, he became a Patron of the Bona Pasogit Foundation, an organization dealing with rehabilitation of earthquake affected areas in Panggabean's native Tarutung.

Death
Panggabean died in Jakarta on 22 May 2000 after suffering from a stroke.

Miscellaneous
Panggabean was married to Meida Seimima Tambunan with whom he had four children, one son and three daughters.

He was of Batak ethnicity and was a Protestant.

Honour

National honours
  Star of the Republic of Indonesia, 2nd Class () (10 March 1973) 
  Star of Mahaputera, 2nd Class () (17 July 1970) 
  Military Distinguished Service Star ()
  Guerrilla Star ()
  Star of Yudha Dharma, 1st Class ()
  Star of Kartika Eka Paksi, 1st Class ()
  Star of Jalasena, 1st Class ()
  Star of Swa Bhuwana Paksa, 1st Class ()
  Star of Bhayangkara, 1st Class ()
  Indonesian Armed Forces "8 Years" Service Star ()
  Military Long Service Medal, 24 Years Service ()
  1st Independence War Medal ()
  2nd Independence War Medal ()
  Military Operational Service Medal for Sulawesi 1958 ()
  "Sapta Marga" Medal ()
  Military Service Medal for Irian Jaya 1962 ()
  Northern Borneo Military Campaign Medal ()
  Medal for Combat Against Communists ()

Foreign honours
  :
  Honorary Grand Commander of the Order of Loyalty to the Crown of Malaysia (1971)

Notes

External links
 Profile on Tokohindonesia.com

|-

|-

|-

|-

1922 births
2000 deaths
Chiefs of Staff of the Indonesian Army
Commanders of the Indonesian National Armed Forces
Defense ministers of Indonesia
Honorary Grand Commanders of the Order of Loyalty to the Crown of Malaysia
Indonesian collaborators with Imperial Japan
Indonesian generals
Indonesian Lutherans
Indonesian Protestants
Members of Pembela Tanah Air
People from North Tapanuli Regency
People of Batak descent
People of the Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation