[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sanlaap

ther they or their mothers are engaged in it. Interventions in Calcutta's red light areas are aimed at building access to communities where prostitutes live and providing services to such women and their children to ensure their access to education, health and protection from abuse and exploitation.

Sanlaap runs two homes for children rescued from, or vulnerable to, prostitution, a hostel for young working women, and a receiving centre for girls rescued from prostitution. The organisation also works with the Panchayats in source areas for trafficking, developing systems and mechanisms to protect vulnerable women and children from being trafficked and to ensure safe passage for those migrating in search of work or because of marriage. Sneha is a home for girls rescued from prostitution, and the female children of women engaged in prostitution who may be vulnerable to second-generation prostitution. The home aims to allow the girls to assess their situation while also dealing with various health issues.

The youth programme's peer support groups among the children of women in prostitution continue to meet regularly. The Kidderpore group has formed a working relationship with the local police to identify trafficked girls and older women who force children into prostitution. Sanlaap intends to support this group further so that its members can take control of situations as they arise in their area.

The success of Sanlaap's legal counselling centre at the Watgunge police station in Calcutta has increased demand for similar services at other police stations. Sanlaap continues to agitate for reform within the juvenile justice board. It has joined a network that aims to set minimum standards for quality of care in institutions for children. Sanlaap's legal aid wing also continues to pursue the speedy disposal of legal cases involving girls living under state custody.

AIDS

More than 19% of the girls rescued from brothel prostitution living in Sneha Shelters are HIV positive, discarded by their families and the Government Homes. Some have given birth to children at the age of fourteen and fifteen.

Legal Aid

SALAH ("advice"), the Legal Aid Wing was born in 1996 to provide assistance in cases of domestic violence, maintenance, child custody and women's rights for all women (except property and tenancy disputes). The focus in 1999 shifted to Campaign and Advocacy initially in the source areas. The Campaign and Advocacy (SAHAYOG) sets up Child Protection
Units (CPUs), works towards safe migration and networks with Community Based Organisations in the source areas. From 1998, Sanlaap began working with the Panchayat and the District Administration, Police and he Border Security Force, sensitising them and motivating them into taking measures for protection of children and women vulnerable to trafficking and ensuring safe migration. Economic rehabilitation of survivors of trafficking has special importance today where Sanlaap works in collaboration with the Private and the Public sector.

SUNDAR

SUNDAR was initiated in 2000 as a support group for Women in Prostitution to address the problems of WIP in the red-light areas. The women are supported to attain their identity in the form of voters’ identity card and ration card and are also supported to live a life
with dignity without being abused and exploited by local hoodlums, pimps, customers, police and their live-in boyfriends or husbands.

See also
 Prostitution in India
 Prostitution in Asia
 Prostitution in Kolkata
 Prostitution in Mumbai
 World Charter for Prostitutes' Rights
 Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee
 All Bengal Women's Union
 Sonagachi
 Kamathipura
 Garstin Bastion Road, New Delhi
 Male prostitution

References

External links
 sanlaap.org Sanlaap's home page

1987 establishments in West Bengal
Sex worker organisations based in India
Organisations based in Kolkata
Sexuality in India
Organizations established in 1987
HIV/AIDS prevention organizations
Organizations that combat human trafficking
HIV/AIDS organizations in India
Prostitution in India
Women's rights organisations based in India
Human trafficking in India