[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Warwolf (Marvel Comics)

failure for Ryker's needs. War-Wolf's original human body is unidentified.

Deathlok tracked reports of his old comrade Mike Travers to the Statue of Liberty. There he fought his way past Simon Ryker's agents and into a cell, which contained Ryker and the War-Wolf, whom Ryker claimed to by Travers.

Ryker sent War-Wolf to kill Deathlok, who found himself unable to fight back against what he believed to be his best friend. Allegedly programmed with Travers' knowledge on Manning, War-Wolf punched Deathlok to the ground, but Deathlok forced him to fire back with his laser pistol, blasting War-Wolf's pistol from his hand. Deathlok was unable to make himself follow up on the attack, and War-Wolf then smashed him with a piece of machinery and then battered him repeatedly, eventually even tearing out his life-line. War-Wolf continued to pummel the rapidly weakening Deathlok, but then Ryker became overconfident and revealed that War-Wolf was not Travers (he further claimed Travers had died on the operating table, though Travers was later shown to be alive). This had the opposite effect of what Ryker intended, and Deathlok was newly inspired to fight back against War-Wolf. Deathlok tackled War-Wolf off the top of the Statue of Liberty's pedestal and made sure that War-Wolf took the impact fully on his back. Though his computer stated that his opponent's main circuits were near to a dead halt, Deathlok refused to stop. He continued to beat on War-Wolf, knocking his dagger from his hand and then blasting a hole through his chest with his laser pistol. His computer analyzed the cyborg opponent as demolished.

In other media
 The Martin Reyna incarnation of Warwolf, known as Werewolf, appears in Hulk: Where Monsters Dwell, voiced by Edward Bosco. This version is a member of the Howling Commandos.
 The Vince Marcus incarnation of Warwolf appears as a playable character in Marvel: Future Fight.

References

External links
 Warwolf (Vic Marcus) at Marvel Wiki
 Warwolf (Michael Travers) at Marvel Wiki
 Warwolf at Comic Vine
 Warwolf of Earth-7484 at Marvel Appendix
 Cybertek Warwolf at Marvel Appendix

Marvel Comics cyborgs
Fictional werewolves
Marvel Comics characters
Marvel Comics characters who can move at superhuman speeds
Marvel Comics characters with superhuman durability or invulnerability
Marvel Comics characters with superhuman senses
Marvel Comics characters with superhuman strength
S.H.I.E.L.D. agents
Howling Commandos