[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# William D. Kelley

illion in 2012), mostly from real estate investments in West Philadelphia, obituaries noted that he had never made money from office and never tried to. He opposed the franking privilege and insisted on paying the postage on letters he sent, and refused the free railroad passes so common in his day.

Death and burial
A lifelong tobacco smoker, he died from complications arising from mouth and throat cancer, from which he had suffered for some six years.  He was buried at Laurel Hill Cemetery in Philadelphia.

Family 
His daughter Florence Kelley was an influential social reformer, associated with Hull House.

A granddaughter, Martha Mott Kelley, wrote murder mysteries under the pseudonym Patrick Quentin.

Quotes 
"Sir, the bloody and untilled fields of the ten unreconstructed States, the unsheeted ghosts of the two thousand murdered negroes in Texas, cry, if the dead ever evoke vengeance, for the punishment of Andrew Johnson" (February 22, 1868)

Works

Speeches
Slavery in the Territories (1854)
The Recognition of Hayti and Liberia (1862)
Speech of Hon. William D. Kelley, of Pennsylvania, on Protection to American Labor; Delivered in the House of Representatives, January 31, 1866
The Financial Problem (1876)

Books 
The Equality of All Men Before the Law: Claimed and Defended (1865)
Reasons for Abandoning the Theory of Free Trade and Adopting the Principle of Protection to American Industry (1872)
Speeches, Addresses (1872)
Letters on Industrial and Financial Questions (1872)
Letters from Europe (1880)
The Old South and the New (1887)

See also 
 List of United States Congress members who died in office (1790–1899)

Notes

Sources
 
 Brown, Ira V. "William D. Kelley and Radical Reconstruction", The Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography, Volume 85, No. 3 (July 1961), pp. 316–329
 Kelley, Florence, The Autobiography of Florence Kelley: Notes of Sixty Years, Charles H. Kerr Publishing Company, Chicago, 1986 
 
 
 William D. Kelley at The Political Graveyard

External links
Grave
Smithsonian Magazine article about William D. Kelley

1814 births
1890 deaths
19th-century American judges
19th-century American legislators
American civil rights activists
American jewellers
American Quakers
Burials at Laurel Hill Cemetery (Philadelphia)
Deans of the United States House of Representatives
Deaths from throat cancer
History of civil rights in the United States
History of voting rights in the United States
Judges of the Pennsylvania Courts of Common Pleas
Lawyers from Philadelphia
Members of the American Philosophical Society
People of the Reconstruction Era
Politicians from Philadelphia
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Pennsylvania
The Philadelphia Inquirer people
Union (American Civil War) political leaders