[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 5]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

finer and richer than anybody
else, and has nothing to do, and everybody waits upon him, and is afraid
of him." "Well said, my dear," replied Mrs Merton; and rose and kissed
him; "and a king you deserve to be with such a spirit; and here's a
glass of wine for you for making such a pretty answer. And should you
not like to be a king too, little Harry?" "Indeed, madam, I don't know
what that is; but I hope I shall soon be big enough to go to plough, and
get my own living; and then I shall want nobody to wait upon me."

"What a difference between the children of farmers and gentlemen!"
whispered Mrs Merton to her husband, looking rather contemptuously upon
Harry. "I am not sure," said Mr Merton, "that for this time the
advantage is on the side of our son:--But should you not like to be
rich, my dear?" said he, turning to Harry. "No, indeed, sir." "No,
simpleton!" said Mrs Merton: "and why not?" "Because the only rich man I
ever saw, is Squire Chase, who lives hard by; and he rides among
people's corn, and breaks down their hedges, and shoots their poultry,
and kills their dogs, and lames their cattle, and abuses the poor; and
they say he does all this because he's rich; but everybody hates him,
though they dare not tell him so to his face--and I would not be hated
for anything in the world." "But should you not like to have a fine
laced coat, and a coach to carry you about, and servants to wait upon
you?" "As to that, madam, one coat is as good as another, if it will but
keep me warm; and I don't want to ride, because I can walk wherever I
choose; and, as to servants, I should have nothing for them to do, if I
had a hundred of them." Mrs Merton continued to look at him with
astonishment, but did not ask him any more questions.

In the evening, little Harry was sent home to his father, who asked him
what he had seen at the great house, and how he liked being there.
"Why," replied Harry, "they were all very kind to me, for which I'm much
obliged to them: but I had rather have been at home, for I never was so
troubled in all my life to get a dinner. There was one man to take away
my plate, and another to give me drink, and another to stand behind my
chair, just as if I had been lame or blind, and could not have waited
upon myself; and then there was so much to do with putting this thing
on, and taking another off, I thought it would never have been over;
and, after dinner, I was obliged to sit two whole hours without ever
stirring, while the lady was talking to me, not as Mr Barlow does, but
wanting me to love fine clothes, and to be a king, and to be rich, that
I may be hated like Squire Chase."

But at the mansion-house, much of the conversation, in the meantime, was
employed in examining the merits of little Harry. Mrs Merton
acknowledged his bravery and openness of temper; she was also struck
with the very good-nature and benevolence of his character, but she
contended that he had a certain grossness and indelicacy in his ideas,
which distinguish the children of the lower and middling classes of
people from those of persons of fashion. Mr Merton, on the contrary,
maintained, that he had never before seen a child whose sentiments and
disposition would do so much honour even to the most elevated
situations. Nothing, he affirmed, was more easily acquired than those
external manners, and that superficial address, upon which too many of
the higher classes pride themselves as their greatest, or even as their
only accomplishment; "nay, so easily are they picked up," said he, "that
we frequently see them descend with the cast clothes to maids and
valets; between whom and their masters and mistresses there is little
other difference than what results from the former wearing soiled
clothes and healthier countenances. Indeed, the real seat of all
superiority, even of manners, must be placed in the mind: dignified
sentiments, superior courage, accompanied with genuine and universal
courtesy, are always necessary to constitute the real gentleman; and
where these are wanting, it is the greatest absurdity to think they can
be supplied by affected tones of voice, particular grimaces, or
extravagant and unnatural modes of dress; which, far from becoming the
real test of gentility, have in general no other origin than the caprice
of barbers, tailors, actors, opera-dancers, milliners, fiddlers, and
French servants of both sexes. I cannot help, therefore, asserting,"
said he, very seriously, "that this little peasant has within his mind
the seeds of true gentility and dignity of character; and though I shall
also wish that our son may possess all the common accomplishments of his
rank, nothing would give me more pleasure than a certainty that he would
never in any respect fall below the son of farmer Sandford."

Whether Mrs Merton fully acceded to these observations of her husband, I
cannot decide; but, without waiting to hear her particular sentiments,