[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chronology of world oil market events

October 27: OPEC approves plan providing for 25 percent government ownership of all Western oil interests operating within Kuwait, Qatar, Abu Dhabi and Saudi Arabia beginning on January 1, 1973, and rising to 51 percent by January 1, 1983. (Iraq declines to agree.) Agreements signed on December 21.

1973
January 11: U.S. Phase III price controls begin. Allows for voluntary instead of mandatory price control on all U.S. prices. This does not prevent a sharp rise in heating oil prices caused by a severe winter and shortage of product.
January 17: U.S. President Richard Nixon suspends mandatory oil import quota on No. 2 heating oil through April 30.
January 23: Shah of Iran announces that the 1954 operating agreement between a consortium of oil companies and Iran will not be renewed when it expires in 1979. The consortium was formed in 1954 as a means to settle a dispute between a new ministry in Iran and the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company (AIOC). The consortium included Standard Oil of New Jersey, Standard Oil of California, SOCONY-Vacuum, the Texas Company, Gulf, Royal Dutch-Shell, the Compagnie Francaise de Petroles, and the AIOC.
February 28: Iraq and IPC reach an agreement on compensation for nationalization.
March :Special Rule No. 1 reimposes mandatory (Phase II) price controls on the 23 largest oil companies. Smaller companies, representing 5 percent of the market, enjoy uncontrolled prices.
March 16: Shah of Iran and Consortium members agree to nationalize all assets immediately in return for an assured 20-year supply of Iranian oil.
March 16: OPEC discusses raising prices to offset decline of U.S. dollar value.
April 1: OPEC increases posted prices by 5.7 percent.
April 18: U.S. Government ends Mandatory Oil Import Program. Program, established in 1959 by President Eisenhower, had limited imports of crude and product east of the Rocky Mountains to a percentage of domestic crude production.
June 1: Eight OPEC countries raise posted prices by 11.9 percent.
June 11: Libya nationalizes Bunker Hunt concession; Nigeria acquires 35 percent participation in Shell-BP concession.
June 14: Nixon administration imposes 60-day economy-wide price freeze, superseding Special Rule No. 1 for oil companies.
August :Libya nationalizes 51 percent of Occidental Petroleum concession and of the Oasis consortium.
August 17: U.S. President Richard Nixon's Cost of Living Council imposes two-tier price ceiling on crude petroleum sales: production of "old" oil (that produced at or below 1972 levels from existing wells) to be sold at March 1973 prices plus 35 cents; production of "new" oil (that produced above 1972 levels from existing wells and oil produced from new wells) to be sold at uncontrolled prices.
September 1: Libya nationalizes 51 percent of nine other companies' concessions: Esso, Libya/Sirte, Mobil, Royal Dutch Shell, Gelensberg, Texaco, SoCal, Libyan-American (ARCO), and Grace.
September 5: Conference of less developed countries approves forming "producers' associations", calls for withdrawal of Israeli forces from occupied Arab lands.
September 15: OPEC supports price hikes and designates six Gulf countries to negotiate collectively with companies over prices. Other members to negotiate individually.
September :Kuwait rejects gradual participation increase plan, insists on immediate 60 percent participation.
October 6: Beginning of fourth Arab-Israeli War.
October 7: Iraq nationalizes Exxon and Mobil shares in Basrah Petroleum Company representing 23.75 percent equity in the company.
October 8: OPEC meets with oil companies to discuss revision of 1971 Tehran agreement and oil prices. Negotiations fail.
October 16: The Gulf Six (Iran, Iraq, Abu Dhabi, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Qatar) unilaterally raise the posted price of Saudi Light marker crude 17 percent from $3.12 to $3.65 per barrel and announce production cuts.
October 17: OPEC oil ministers agree to use oil weapon in Arab–Israeli War, mandate cut in exports, and recommend embargo against unfriendly states.
October 19: Saudi Arabia, Libya, and other Arab states proclaim an embargo on oil exports to the United States.
October 23: Arab oil embargo extended to the Netherlands.
November 5: Arab producers announce 25 percent cut in production below September levels. Further cuts of five percent are threatened.
November 18: Arab oil ministers cancel the scheduled 5 percent cut in production for EEC.
November 23: Arab summit conference adopts open and secret resolutions on the use of the oil weapon. Embargo extended to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa.
November 27: U.S. President Richard Nixon signs the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act (EPAA). Authorizes petroleum price, production, allocation and marketing controls.
December 9: Arab oil ministers announce a further production cut of 5 percent for January for non-friendly countries.
December 22: OPEC Gulf Six decides to raise the posted price of marker crude from $5.12 to $11.65 per barrel effective January 1, 197