[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Constitution of Indonesia

me advisory council
The entire articles of this chapter has been removed by the fourth amendment of the Constitution. Previously, states the role of Supreme Advisory Council.

Chapter V: State ministries
Four short articles giving the cabinet a constitutional basis. The president appoints ministers.

Chapter VI: Local governments
Explains how Indonesia is divided into provinces, regencies and cities, each with its own administration chosen by general election. The leaders of these administrations are "chosen democratically". Autonomy is applied as widely as possible. The state recognises the special nature of certain regions.

Chapter VII: House of Representatives
Its members are elected by general election. It has the right to pass laws, and has legislative, budgeting and oversight functions. It has the right to request government statements and to put forward opinions.

Chapter VII-A: The Regional Representatives Council
An equal number of members is chosen from each province via a general election. The Council can suggest bills related to regional issues to the House of Representatives. It also advises the House on matters concerning taxes, education and religion.

Chapter VII-B: General elections

General elections to elect the members of the House of Representatives, the Regional Representatives Council, the president and vice-president and the regional legislatures are free, secret, honest and fair and are held every five years. Candidates for the House of Representatives and regional legislatures represent political parties: those for the Regional Representatives Council are individuals.

Chapter VIII: Financial matters
States that the president puts forward the annual state budget for consideration by the House of Representatives.

Chapter VIII-A: Audit Board

Explains that this exists to oversee the management of state funds.

Chapter IX: Judicial powers
Affirms the independence of the judiciary. Explains the role and position of the Supreme Court as well as the role of the Judicial Commission. Also states the role of the Constitutional Court.

Chapter IX-A: State territory
States that the nation is an archipelago whose borders and rights are laid down by law.

Chapter X: Citizens and residents
Defines citizens and residents, and states that all citizens are equal before the law.

Chapter X-A: Human rights

Details the human rights guaranteed to all, including:
 the right of children to grow up free of violence and discrimination
 the right of all to legal certainty
 the right to religious freedom
 the right to choose education, work and citizenship as well as the right to choose where to live
 the right of assembly, association and expression of opinion
 the right to be free from torture

It also states that the rights not to be tortured, to have freedom of thought and conscience, of religion, to not be enslaved, to be recognised as an individual before the law and to not be charged under retroactive legislation cannot be revoked under any circumstances. Furthermore, every person has the right to freedom from discrimination on any grounds whatsoever.

Finally, every person is obliged to respect the rights of others.

Chapter XI: Religion

The nation is based on belief in God, but the state guarantees religious freedom for all.

Chapter XII: State defence and security

States that all citizens have an obligation and right to participate in the defence of the nation. Outlines the structure and roles of the armed forces and the police.

Chapter XIII: Education and culture

States that every citizen has the right to an education. Also obliges the government to allocate 20 percent of the state budget to education.

Chapter XIV: National economy and social welfare

States that major means of production are to be controlled by the state. Also states that the state takes care of the poor.

Chapter XV: National flag, language, emblem, and anthem
Specifies the flag, official language, coat of arms, and national anthem of Indonesia.

Chapter XVI: Constitutional amendment
Lays down the procedures for proposing changes and amending the Constitution. Two-thirds of the members of the People's Consultative Assembly must be present: any proposed amendment requires a simple majority of the entire People's Consultative Assembly membership. The form of the unitary state cannot be changed.

Transitional provisions
States that laws and bodies continue to exist until new ones are specified in this constitution. Calls for the establishment of a Constitutional court before 17 August 2003.

Additional provisions
Tasks the People's Consultative Assembly with re-examining decrees passed by it and its predecessors for their validity to be determined in the 2003 general session.

See also

 Constitutional economics
 Constitutionalism

Notes

References