[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 5th New York Infantry Regiment

ith pro-secessionist locals, patrolling the rail lines and yards, and improving the fort on Federal Hill. With the exception of a short expedition to the Eastern Shore of Virginia, the regiment used this garrison time to continue honing its skill at its manual of arms and regimental field movements.

For twenty-three days from Wednesday, November 13 to Thursday, December 5, six companies, A, B, C, D, E, F, of the 5th left Baltimore on the steamer Pocahontas. They took part in an expedition south to the Delmarva Peninsula into Accomac and Northampton Counties. The purpose was to reassert state and Federal control over those two counties where there had been reports of secessionist activity. Despite the many Unionists in the two counties, the secessionists, who were in a slight majority in Northampton County had been actively recruiting for the Confederate army and taking reprisals against Unionists. About three thousand militia had gathered to oppose any Federal advance (some were Unionists forced into ranks), and Gen. Dix intended to send a much larger force of 5,000 to intimidate them and give support to the local Unionists. The force landed above the state line on Wednesday, November 13, a proclamation calling on the militia to lay down their arms, promising protection for Unionists, and punishment for continued disloyal activities. On Sunday, November 17, the force crossed into Virginia. Within five days, all armed units melted away, and the 5th's companies and its colleagues in the force spread out to some of the towns to show the flag. The six companies returned to Fort Federal Hill on Thursday, December 5.

The 5th remained in garrison over the new year and on Thursday, February 6, it received a garrison flag from an association of ladies of South Baltimore. The locals around the fort had warmed to the 5th and took pride in it. To maintain discipline, punishments in garrison were harsh and in February, six members of the regiment who were chronic violators of army regulations were paraded to the "Rogue's March," and sent off in chains to the Washington Penitentiary  and the military prison in the Dry Tortugas.

The Peninsula campaign
In preparation for his upcoming offensive in the Peninsula campaign to capture Richmond, Virginia, General George McClellan ordered the regiment to join the Army of the Potomac.  McClellan said that, upon seeing the colorful New York regiment, "the Fifth is the best disciplined and soldierly regiment in the Army."  After a farewell ceremony at the Fort on Friday evening, March 28, the 5th made ready to depart Baltimore.

On Monday, March 31, 1862, the 5th sailed out of Baltimore, down the Chesapeake, and landed at Hampton Roads. Upon arrival, they were attached to Sykes’ Infantry (Reserve), Army of the Potomac.

At the Battle of Hanover Courthouse on May 27, 1862, the regiment played only a minor role.  However, they fought in a more major role in the Battle of Gaines' Mill of the Seven Days Battles. As McClellan moved his base to the James River on June 27, 1862, the regiment fought against Gregg's South Carolina brigade.  In a bayonet counterattack, the regiment defeated the initial Rebel attack driving back and routing two of the brigade's regiments.

The Virginia campaign
In August 1862, the regiment fell under the control of General John Pope.  At the Second Battle of Bull Run (also known as the Second Battle of Manassas), the 5th New York Volunteer Infantry regiment was forced to withstand the advancing forces of General James Longstreet.  In underestimating the size of the Confederate army, Pope ordered the regiment to support Hazlett's Battery. Longstreet's soldiers easily outnumbered the small regiment, met by the 5th Texas Vol. Of the famous Texas Brigade's who elite soldiers accurate musket volleys quickly inflicted massive casualties in the regiment. In just 10 minutes of fighting, the 5th New York lost 332 men of the approximately 525 engaged. At least 119 of the casualties were killed outright or died of their wounds. The addition of two missing who were never accounted for would bring the death total to 121. It was the greatest battle fatality sustained by any Federal infantry unit in the war. The entire Color Guard was killed, except for one man. The only officer to survive the battle was Captain Cleveland Winslow. The regiment was effectively removed as a combat regiment, never again serving in the battle line.

The Maryland, Fredericksburg, and Chancellorsville campaigns
Later, at the Battle of Antietam, September 17, the unit was held in reserve.  On December 15, the unit fought at the Battle of Fredericksburg, covering the Union retreat.  At the Battle of Chancellorsville under Joseph Hooker, the unit saw its final combat.

It returned to New York on May 8, 1863, and was mustered out on the next day, its three years' men having been transferred to the 146th regiment.