[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ernest J. Sternglass

hat he had proven that figure as a minimum.

Sternglass's methodology was criticized—including by the medical researcher who provided him with the statistics (Gordon MacLeod), and by an otherwise-sympathetic researcher with the Natural Resources Defense Council (Arthur Tamplin) -- on several counts:

for not attaining statistical significance (Frank Greenberg, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC);
for lacking a sufficient baseline, since screening for hypothyroidism hadn't started until 1978 (Greenberg)
for not looking at the number of babies who didn't die (Gary Stein, CDC);
for not noticing that the sex ratio of newborns hadn't changed—males being more susceptible to fetal injury than females (Stein; George Tokuhata, Pennsylvania Health Department, director of epidemiology),
for "ignoring [areas for analysis] close to the reactor, where the infant mortality was very low" (Tokuhata);
for simply being incomplete (Tamplin).
As well, he had relied on figures that had incorrectly compounded fetal deaths with infant mortality (Tokuhata).

Cosmological theories

Sternglass also wrote the book Before the Big Bang: the Origins of the Universe, in which he offers an argument for the Lemaître theory of the primeval atom. He offers technical data showing the plausibility of an original super massive relativistic electron-positron pair. This particle contained the entire mass of the universe and through a series of 270 divisions created everything that now exists. If true, this would help ameliorate some of the problems with the current models, namely inflation and black hole singularities.                                                    
E. J. Sternglass, Relativistic Electron-Pair Systems and the Structure of Neutral Mesons, Physical Reviews, 123, 391 (1961).                                                                                            
E. J. Sternglass, A Model for the Early Universe and the Connection between Gravitation and the Quantum Nature of Matter, Lettere al Nuovo Cimento, 41, 203 (1984).

Books 
 Ernest J. Sternglass (1981) Secret Fallout: low-level radiation from Hiroshima to Three-Mile Island. . Originally published in 1972 under the title Low-Level Radiation with an introduction by Nobel Laureate George Wald.
 Ernest J. Sternglass (1997) Before the Big Bang: the origins of the universe. .

See also 
 Downwinders
 Radiation Exposure Compensation Act
 Background radiation
 Ionizing radiation
 Radiation poisoning
 Radioactive contamination
 Health physics
 National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy
 John Gofman

References 

 "Nuclear Witnesses." (Bio detail)
 Herman Kahn. On Thermonuclear War. Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, 1960.

External links 
 Radiation and Public Health Project website
 1992 interview
 Dr. Sternglass' book Secret Fallout is available as a free download. (April 2006)
 Criticism of Sternglass' findings by Robert Holloway  of Nevada Technical Associates, Inc.

1923 births
2015 deaths
Jewish emigrants from Nazi Germany to the United States
20th-century American physicists
American nuclear physicists
Cornell University alumni
University of Pittsburgh faculty
20th-century German physicists
Radiation health effects researchers
People associated with nuclear power
Fellows of the American Physical Society