[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Charles Goodhart

rds, Goodhart was awarded the Central Banking Lifetime Achievement Award for his work on monetary frameworks, risk management and foreign exchange markets as well as his involvement in the Hong Kong peg, the independence of the Royal Bank of New Zealand and the creation of Goodhart's Law.

Influence

Goodhart's Law 
One of Charles Goodhart's most prominent contributions to monetary economics is known as Goodhart's Law. Charles wrote this law in the footnotes of his paper Problems of monetary management: the UK experience for the Reserve Bank of Australia during his time at the Bank of England (1975). The law states that: "whenever a government seeks to rely on a previously observed statistical regularity for control purposes, that regularity will collapse". Although written initially as a witty comment about monetary targeting, the underlying thought behind this notion was taken very seriously and was linked to the Lucas Critique of evaluation and policy modelling.This law was generalised by anthropologist Marilyn Strathern beyond the world of statistics. The most commonly used version of Goodhart's Law comes from Strathern's paper: "When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure". In reflection to the creation of Goodhart's Law, Charles wrote: "it does feel slightly odd to have one's public reputation largely based on a minor footnote".

Research 
Goodhart pioneered the integration of macroeconomics and finance, bringing them together in the monetary and regulatory policies of central banks. 
 He advocates for policies that are supported by a strong theoretical base and backed up by empirical evidence and data. To provide this empirical evidence, Goodhart used economic models that can be expressed in the mathematic form. He found value in mathematical models as they can be integrated with real world data – exposing their usefulness and any underlying interactions.

He is quoted saying: "It is only by constructing a mathematical institutional economics that one can study the economic system in a rigorous and analytical manner".

Throughout his career, Goodhart played a role in improving the practice of financial regulation and central banking by making it easier for governments and central bankers to benefit public welfare by dampening economic cycles.

Selected works
Google Scholar listed Charles Goodhart being the author or co-author of 539 articles and books by the end of 2017. His most cited works include Money, Information and Uncertainty and The Evolution of Central Banks.

References

External links 
 
 

1936 births
Living people
Academics of the London School of Economics
Alumni of Trinity College, Cambridge
Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences alumni
British economists
British Jews
Commanders of the Order of the British Empire
Jewish scientists
Fellows of the British Academy
Lehman family
Honorary Fellows of the London School of Economics
Institute for New Economic Thinking