[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Israel Eldad

in an Israeli high school until Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion intervened and had him dismissed. Ben-Gurion was afraid Eldad would imbue the students with his Lehi ideology. Eldad went to court and won, but found few people willing to hire him after Ben-Gurion had labeled him a danger to the state.

In 1962, Eldad was made a lecturer at the Technion in Haifa. He taught there for twenty years. Starting from 1982 Eldad was a lecturer at the Ariel University Center of Samaria.

Literary career
For 14 years he published a revolutionary journal, Sulam. Eldad spent half of 1949 writing his memoirs, entitled Maaser Rishon. He  wrote histories of underground battles, a biography of the mayor of Ramat Gan, a newspaper-style review of Jewish history called Chronicles, a book of Bible commentary, Hegionot Mikra, weekly newspaper columns, and many more books, encyclopedia entries and other works.  In 1988, Eldad was awarded Tel Aviv's Bialik Prize for his contributions to Israeli thought.

By the 1990s, Eldad was known as the doyen of Israeli nationalists. Much of his work has been translated into English, mostly by Zev Golan. Among his works: Chronicles . The Jewish Revolution appeared in 1971, and was reissued in 2007. Free Jerusalem includes a chapter by Eldad ("Meanwhile, A European Interlude") about Polish Jewry on the eve of war. Israel: The Road to Full Redemption, a translation of an article in Sulam, was published in 1961 and is today a virtually unobtainable brochure. A website is devoted to disseminating articles by Eldad and his underground colleagues. His memoirs of the time he led the Lehi underground organisation, The First Tithe, were  translated and first published in 2008. God, Man and Nietzsche includes a lengthy examination of Eldad's philosophy of history and excerpts from an article about Nietzsche written by Eldad in the underground.

When he died on the first day of the Hebrew month of Shevat, in January 1996, his funeral was attended by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, former Lehi commander and prime minister Yitzhak Shamir and Knesset Speaker Dov Shilansky. Eldad was buried on the Mount of Olives, at the foot of the grave of his mentor and friend, Uri Zvi Greenberg.

Views and opinions

The book Stern: The Man and His Gang by Zev Golan has a biography of Eldad and a detailed comparison of his political ideas and goals with those of other Lehi leaders.

Jewish state
Eldad did not believe that the creation of the state of Israel was the goal of Zionism. He considered the state a tool to be used in realizing the true goal of Zionism, which he called Malkhut Yisrael, "the Kingdom of Israel". Eldad sought what he referred to as national redemption, meaning a sovereign Jewish kingdom in the biblical borders of Israel, with all the world's Jews living there, and the Jewish Temple rebuilt in Jerusalem.

Jewish diaspora
Eldad steadfastly refused to give legitimacy to any Jewish presence in the Diaspora, which he felt was doomed to extinction. Nonetheless, in his view of history, past generations of Jews in exile from the Land of Israel were not denigrated as passive sufferers, but were considered creative players in history.

Awards and recognition
 In 1977, Eldad was awarded the Tchernichovsky Prize for exemplary translation.
 In 1988, he was the co-recipient (jointly with Zvi Meir Rabinovitz) of the Bialik Prize for Jewish thought.
 In 1990, he received the Yakir Yerushalayim (Worthy Citizen of Jerusalem) award from the city of Jerusalem.

Many of Eldad's political and philosophical teachings continue to be espoused by the Magshimey Herut (achievers of liberty) organization, the Zionist Freedom Alliance, and by the Hatikva political party, the latter one led by Eldad's son Aryeh. The Israeli settlement Kfar Eldad was named after him.

Published works
 The Jewish Revolution: Jewish Statehood (Israel: Gefen Publishing House, 2007), 
 Maaser Rishon. Originally published in 1950 in Hebrew. English translation: The First Tithe (Tel Aviv: Jabotinsky Institute, 2008), 
  Israel: The Road to Full Redemption (New York: Futuro Press, 1961)

See also
 List of Bialik Prize recipients

References

Further reading
 Ada Amichal Yevin, Sambatyon (Israel: Bet El, 1995) (Hebrew)
 Zev Golan, Free Jerusalem: Heroes, Heroines and Rogues Who Created the State of Israel (Israel: Devora, 2003), 
 Zev Golan, God, Man and Nietzsche: A Startling Dialogue between Judaism and Modern Philosophers (New York: iUniverse, 2007), 

1910 births
1996 deaths
20th-century Israeli philosophers
Jewish philosophers
Israeli philosophers
Philosophers of Judaism
Modern Hebrew writers
Zionist activists
Lehi (militant group)
Polish emigrants to Mandatory Palestine
20th-century Israeli Jews
Jews from Galicia (Eastern Europe)
People from Pidvolochysk
University of Vienna alumni
Burials at the Jewish cemetery on the Mount of Olives
Betar members