[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Baron (Messianic leader)

.

David Baron died on 28 October 1926, aged 71.

Views 
Baron's theological and political views were closely linked. E Bendor Samuel, director of the HCTI, claimed that Baron "set himself the double task of explaining Christian truth to the Jews and Scriptural truth regarding Israel to Christians."

Religious views and influences 
Baron was unaffiliated with any Christian denomination, believing such divisions to be harmful to the Christian witness to Jews. Much of his theological formation was influenced by Free Church of Scotland ministers like Andrew Bonar, whose biography of Robert Murray M'Cheyne he referred to as "one of the first Christian books that I read." From Bonar, who was associated with famous American preacher Dwight L. Moody, Baron adopted a revivalist perspective and dispensational premillennial eschatology. These frameworks were closely associated with the emergence of modern Christian Zionism, of which Bonar and M'Cheyne were among the foremost British proponents. Baron travelled to the United States in 1890 to visit Moody in person. A key part of Baron's theology that shapped his methodology was his belief that the law as interpreted by Rabbis was stifling people under what he called "Jewish popery", and that an understanding of Jesus as fulfilment of the sacrificial system brought spiritual renewal. He utilised both scriptural interpretation and Rabbinic commentaries to argue for the Messiahship of Jesus. 

Baron did not think of himself an adherent of Messianic Judaism, which he considered to be dangerous. He warned against the movement, referring to its common insistence on Torah observance as "a hindrance" to spiritual development and an impediment to Christian unity.

Political views 
Like his close associate Charles Andrew Schönberger, whose motto was "Christ and Israel, and Israel and Christ, are inseparable", Baron was a committed Zionist. He attended the First Zionist Congress in 1897 and every such meeting thereafter until 1906, writing reports on the discussions which were subsequently published in the long-running periodical Scattered Nation.

Works
 Rays of Messiah's Glory (1886)
 The Jewish Problem - Its Solution or, Israel's Present and Future (1891)
 The Ancient Scriptures and the Modern Jew (1900)
 A Divine Forecast of Jewish History. A Proof of the Supernatural Element (1905)
 Types, Psalms, and Prophecies: Being a Series of Old Testament Studies. (1906)
 Israel's Inalienable Possessions: The Gifts and the Calling of God Which are Without Repentance (1906)
 The Shepherd of Israel and His scattered flock; a solution of the enigma of Jewish history. (1910)
 History of the Ten Lost Tribes: Anglo-Israelism Examined (1915)
 The Visions and Prophecies of Zechariah (1918)
 The Servant of Jehovah: The sufferings of the Messiah and the Glory that Should Follow. An Exposition of Isaiah LIII. (1922)
 The History of Israel: Its Spiritual Significance (19—)
 We have found the Messiah, translated by J. Rottenberg into Yiddish as מיר האבען געפונען דעם משיח, published in 1928.

Notes

External links
 Scattered Nation (1-12) a periodical produced by Hebrew Christian Testimony to Israel and edited by David Baron.
 Scattered Nation (13-28) a periodical produced by Hebrew Christian Testimony to Israel and edited by David Baron.

Converts to Christianity from Judaism
British evangelicals
1855 births
1926 deaths