[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of birds of Malta

s.

Eurasian golden oriole, Oriolus oriolus

Shrikes

Order: PasseriformesFamily: Laniidae

Shrikes are passerine birds known for their habit of catching other birds and small animals and impaling the uneaten portions of their bodies on thorns. A typical shrike's beak is hooked, like a bird of prey.

Red-backed shrike, Lanius collurio
Brown shrike, Lanius cristatus (A)
Great gray shrike, Lanius excubitor
Lesser gray shrike, Lanius minor (A)
Masked shrike, Lanius nubicus (A)
Woodchat shrike, Lanius senator

Crows, jays, and magpies
Order: PasseriformesFamily: Corvidae

The family Corvidae includes crows, ravens, jays, choughs, magpies, treepies, nutcrackers and ground jays. Corvids are above average in size among the Passeriformes, and some of the larger species show high levels of intelligence.

Eurasian jay, Garrulus glandarius (A)
Red-billed chough, Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax (A)
Eurasian jackdaw, Corvus monedula (extirpated)
House crow, Corvus splendens (A)
Rook, Corvus frugilegus (A)
Carrion crow, Corvus corone (A)
Hooded crow, Corvus cornix (A)
Common raven, Corvus corax (A)

Tits, chickadees, and titmice
Order: PasseriformesFamily: Paridae

The Paridae are mainly small stocky woodland species with short stout bills. Some have crests. They are adaptable birds, with a mixed diet including seeds and insects.

Eurasian blue tit, Cyanistes caeruleus (A)
Great tit, Parus major (A)

Penduline-tits
Order: PasseriformesFamily: Remizidae

The penduline-tits are a group of small passerine birds related to the true tits. They are insectivores.

Eurasian penduline-tit, Remiz pendulinus (A)

Larks

Order: PasseriformesFamily: Alaudidae

Larks are small terrestrial birds with often extravagant songs and display flights. Most larks are fairly dull in appearance. Their food is insects and seeds.

Greater hoopoe-lark, Alaemon alaudipes (A)
Bar-tailed lark, Ammomanes cinctura (A)
Horned lark, Eremophila alpestris (A)
Temminck's lark, Eremophila bilopha (A)
Greater short-toed lark, Calandrella brachydactyla
Calandra lark, Melanocorypha calandra
Black lark, Melanocorypha yeltoniensis (A)
Dupont's lark, Chersophilus duponti (A)
Mediterranean short-toed lark, Alaudala rufescens (A)
Wood lark, Lullula arborea
White-winged lark, Alauda leucoptera (A)
Eurasian skylark, Alauda arvensis
Crested lark, Galerida cristata (A)

Cisticolas and allies

Order: PasseriformesFamily: Cisticolidae

The Cisticolidae are warblers found mainly in warmer southern regions of the Old World. They are generally very small birds of drab brown or grey appearance found in open country such as grassland or scrub.

Zitting cisticola, Cisticola juncidis

Reed warblers and allies 
Order: PasseriformesFamily: Acrocephalidae

The members of this family are usually rather large for "warblers". Most are rather plain olivaceous brown above with much yellow to beige below. They are usually found in open woodland, reedbeds, or tall grass. The family occurs mostly in southern to western Eurasia and surroundings, but it also ranges far into the Pacific, with some species in Africa.

Sykes's warbler, Iduna rama (A)
Eastern olivaceous warbler, Iduna pallida (A)
Western olivaceous warbler, Iduna opaca (A)
Melodious warbler, Hippolais polyglotta (A)
Icterine warbler, Hippolais icterina
Aquatic warbler, Acrocephalus paludicola (A)
Moustached warbler, Acrocephalus melanopogon
Sedge warbler, Acrocephalus schoenobaenus
Paddyfield warbler, Acrocephalus agricola (A)
Blyth's reed warbler, Acrocephalus dumetorum (A)
Marsh warbler, Acrocephalus palustris
Eurasian reed warbler, Acrocephalus scirpaceus
Great reed warbler, Acrocephalus arundinaceus

Grassbirds and allies
Order: PasseriformesFamily: Locustellidae

Locustellidae are a family of small insectivorous songbirds found mainly in Eurasia, Africa, and the Australian region. They are smallish birds with tails that are usually long and pointed, and tend to be drab brownish or buffy all over.

River warbler, Locustella fluviatilis (A)
Savi's warbler, Locustella luscinioides
Common grasshopper-warbler, Locustella naevia (A)

Swallows

Order: PasseriformesFamily: Hirundinidae

The family Hirundinidae is adapted to aerial feeding. They have a slender streamlined body, long pointed wings and a short bill with a wide gape. The feet are adapted to perching rather than walking, and the front toes are partially joined at the base.

Bank swallow, Riparia riparia
Eurasian crag-martin, Ptyonoprogne rupestris (A)
Barn swallow, Hirundo rustica
Red-rumped swallow, Cecropis daurica
Common house-martin, Delichon urbicum

Leaf warblers
Order: PasseriformesFamily: Phylloscopidae

Leaf warblers are a family of small insectivorous birds found mostly in Eurasia and ranging into Wallacea and Africa. The species are of various sizes, often green-plumaged above and yellow below, or more subdued with greyish-green to greyish-brown colours.