[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Apollo Affair

of contaminated land at the site of NUMEC's waste disposal. The project was scheduled to be completed in 2015, but the discovery of a substantially larger amount of contamination resulted in a seven year delay. Excavation is now scheduled to begin in 2021, with an estimated project time of 10 years.

In popular culture
Dominique LaPierre and Larry Collins mentioned this incident as part of a lengthy and detailed backstory to Israel's nuclear arsenal and its aborted nuclear strike against Libya in The Fifth Horseman. The film states that at least half of the uranium, according to the CIA, made it to Israel.

In the movie The Sum of All Fears, after determining that the Baltimore nuclear bomb's plutonium came from Savannah River in 1968, Jack Ryan asked Spinnaker via smartphone where the plutonium went. This is a fictitious reference to the Apollo Affair. In the movie an Israeli A-4 carrying a plutonium bomb is shot down, its bomb later recovered by scrap dealers, and its plutonium sold to neo-Nazis (Palestinian terrorists in the book).

See also

Israel and weapons of mass destruction
Nuclear technology

Further reading
 Stealing the Atom Bomb: How Denial and Deception Armed Israel by Roger Mattson (2016, )
”The NUMEC Affair: Did Highly Enriched Uranium from the U.S. Aid Israel’s Nuclear Weapons Program? National Security Archive Electronic Briefing Book No. 565, Posted - November 2, 2016

References

External links
 FBI file on NUMEC
 NUMEC made significant advancements, Thomas, Mary Ann and Santanam, Ramesh. 2002-08-28. Valley News Dispatch
 Government agencies investigated missing uranium, NUMEC, Thomas, Mary Ann and Santanam, Ramesh. 2002-08-25. Valley News Dispatch
 The Third Temple's Holy Of Holies: Israel's Nuclear Weapons, Warner D. Farr, USAF Counterproliferation Center, Maxwell Air Force Base, September 1999

Israeli nuclear development
Nuclear history of the United States
Israel–United States relations
1965 in the United States