[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of coups and coup attempts

rival groups claiming to represent the legitimate government, the uprising was suppressed and the former government was ultimately restored.

1910
5 October 1910 revolution in Portugal: A republican coup d'état deposed King Manuel II of Portugal and established the Portuguese First Republic.

1912 

 1912 coup d'état in the Ottoman Empire: Members of the Savior Officers group in the army, a pro-Freedom and Accord Party clique, issued a memorandum to the Grand Vizier Mehmed Said Pasha to resign and dissolve parliament, which was overwhelmingly dominated by the CUP following the rigged 1912 election known as the "election of clubs". The Savior Officers got their wish, resulting in Ahmed Muhtar Pasha's Great Cabinet.

1913

1913 Ottoman coup d'état: Led by Talaat and Enver Pasha, the Committee of Union and Progress overthrew the Freedom and Accord Party coalition and introduced a military dictatorship, led by the Three Pashas.
Mexico: During the Ten Tragic Days, General Victoriano Huerta overthrew and murdered the president of Mexico, Francisco Madero.
United Kingdom: During the suffragette bombing and arson campaign, a plot to kidnap Home Secretary Reginald McKenna was revealed and discussed in the House of Commons and in the press. It was revealed that suffragettes were planning to kidnap one or more cabinet ministers and subjecting them to force-feeding, until they conceded women's suffrage. After the publicization of the plans, the plans were aborted.
United Kingdom: During the suffragette bombing and arson campaign, Special Branch detectives discovered that the WSPU had plans to create a suffragette "army" known as the "People's Training Corps" and informally as "Mrs Pankhurst's Army". The army was intended to proceed in force to Downing Street to imprison ministers until they conceded women's suffrage. After the discovery of the plans, they were aborted.

1916
Ethiopia: While touring the city of Harar, Lij Iyasu was deposed by a cabal of aristocrats in favor of his aunt Zewditu. Forces loyal to him were defeated at Segale, and Lij Iyasu wandered northwestern Ethiopia with a small band of loyal followers until captured five years later.
China: Yuan Shikai launched a self-coup by proclaiming himself emperor of the Chinese Empire.

1917
Costa Rica: President Alfredo González Flores was overthrown in a coup d'état led by General José Federico Alberto de Jesús Tinoco Granados, who established a repressive military dictatorship.
Manchu Restoration in China: Zhang Xun launched a coup in an attempt to restore the Qing monarchy. It was quickly reversed by Republican troops.
Russia: In August, the Russian Commander-in-Chief General Kornilov attempted a putsch, which was rapidly defeated.

1918
Russia: Alexander Kolchak overthrew the Provisional All-Russian Government and took control of the newly formed Russian State, establishing a military dictatorship.

1919
1919 Polish coup d'état attempt in Lithuania: The Polish right-wing unsuccessfully tried to overthrow the left-wing government.
Spartacist uprising in Germany: The German Communist Party unsuccessfully attempted to overthrow the government.
Hungarian Soviet Republic: István Friedrich overthrew the Hungarian Soviet Republic.

1920–1929

1920
Kapp Putsch in Germany: The Marinebrigade Ehrhardt failed to overthrow Germany's Weimar Republic.
1920 Georgian coup attempt in the Democratic Republic of Georgia: The Bolsheviks failed to overthrow the Democratic Republic of Georgia with the help of the Soviet Russian Red Army.
Bolivia: 21 years of continuous single-party democratic rule ended when Bautista Saavedra overthrew José Gutiérrez Guerra.
Plan of Agua Prieta in Mexico: General Álvaro Obregón, backed by labor unions and Zapatistas, ousted Mexican President Venustiano Carranza.

1921
Iran: Colonel Reza Khan, with Zia'eddin Tabatabaee, launched a coup against Ahmad Shah Qajar.
Charles IV attempts to retake the throne in Hungary: The former King Charles I of Austria, who had also reigned as Charles IV of Hungary, returned to Hungary twice to try, unsuccessfully, to retake his throne from Regent Miklós Horthy.

1922

Greece: Following the defeat in the Asia Minor Campaign, Venizelist army officers, chief amongst them Nikolaos Plastiras and Stylianos Gonatas, led the Greek Army in revolt against the royal government and forced the renewed abdication of King Constantine I of Greece.
Albania: A failed coup d'état attempt was led by Bajram Curri, Elez Isufi, Hamit Toptani and Halit Lleshi.
March on Rome in Italy: Between 27 and 29 October, the March on Rome by the Blackshirts led to the installation of Benito Mussolini of the National Fascist Party as prime minister of the Kingdom of Italy, supported by King Victor Emmanuel III. After the election of 1924 and the assassination of Giacomo Matteotti, Mussolini established a dictatorship on 3 January 1925.