[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Cinema of the Middle East

citizens traveling to neighboring states to go to the cinema, or watching films online. Furthermore, the film industry is receiving support from Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal, owner of entertainment company Rotana, which some see as an encouraging sign for the reestablishment of cinema in Saudi Arabia.

With the rise of digital and social network, pressure was mounting on Saudi Arabia in regards to the permissibility of cinemas as many were watching films online anyway. In 2005, an improvised cinema in Riyadh was officially opened though limited to men and children only to prevent gender mixing in a public space. This was not the only attempt to bring back cinema; in 2006, How’s It Going? became the first fully Saudi funded feature film. It also starred a Saudi actress.  here have been several additional signs of relaxation, for example, Jeddah has started hosting a European Film Festival since 2006, and a single Saudi film festival was held in Dammam in 2008, though this did not meet with a favorable response from some of the more extreme religious leaders. Furthermore, the film Menahi was screened in Riyadh in 2009, although women were banned from attending.  Finally, in 2017, efforts led by the King's son and Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohamed Bin Salman, targeted the enhancement of the entertainment sector in Saudi Arabia including strengthening the theatre and cinema infrastructure in Saudi Arabia.

The kingdoms filmography started in 2004 with an approval from the Ministry of Culture for a location shoot in the UAE. What followed was a small string of local talent counting on foreign exhibitions to showcase their work:

Sudan

Syria

United Arab Emirates

There is an expanding film industry in the United Arab Emirates, strengthened by the annual Gulf Film Festival showcasing cinematic productions from the region, as well as the Dubai International Film Festival, which was launched in 2004. UAE film-makers have been able to contribute a large volume of films to these festivals. UAE's first horror film is set to premier in the fall of 2013 after some delays in production.

Yemen

See also
 Cinema of Africa
 Cinema of Asia
 Cinema of Central Asia
 East Asian cinema
 List of cinema of the world
 South Asian cinema
 Southeast Asian cinema
 World cinema
 Award Best Actressess in the Middle East for world

References

External links
 IMDB entry for Egypt 
 The Hindu newspaper article covering the filming of 'A Bahraini Tale'
 IMDB entry for Oman
 IMDB entry for Yemen 

 
Middle East
Asian cinema
African cinema