[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Koren

City and scored a 25-yard strike at home to Ipswich Town, and also scored what proved to be the winning goal in a 2–1 away victory over Watford. On 17 September 2011 against Portsmouth at the KC Stadium, Koren picked up possession, picked his spot and fired home into the bottom corner from 25 yards.

On 24 September 2011, against Bristol City at Ashton Gate Stadium, Koren played a neat ball into Aaron McLean's feet and when the pass was returned, Koren stroked a lovely low shot into the bottom corner of the net. On 22 October 2011 against Watford at the KC Stadium, Koren picked up possession midway inside the City half, drifted past three Watford players before driving home into the bottom corner of the net from 25 yards. On 29 November 2011, against Southampton at St Mary's Stadium, a flowing move down the left ended with Tom Cairney pulling the ball back to Koren, whose shot deflected off Matty Fryatt and brought a stunning save out of Kelvin Davis. But the rebound fell for Koren, who nodded home from close range. On 3 December 2011, against Leicester City at the KC Stadium, the ball was rolled nicely into the path of Koren and he struck a beautiful shot past Schmeichel from 20 yards. On 7 December 2011, against Birmingham City at the KC Stadium, Cameron Stewart got to the byeline down the right before firing in a vicious cross that was only cleared as far as the penalty spot where Koren readjusted his body to volley into the net. On 17 December 2011, against Millwall at the KC Stadium, a long ball forward was headed down by a Millwall defender and it dropped nicely for Koren, who adjusted his feet well before firing home a low shot from 20 yards out.

On 11 August 2012, he signed a new two-year contract. On 15 September 2012, against Millwall at the KC Stadium, Koren picked up possession on the edge of the centre circle, advanced unchallenged before unleashing a powerful drive from 25 yards which flew past Taylor and into the net. After Hull's promotion to Premier League he was ruled out for four to five weeks for  foot injury before the clash against Newcastle United.

Melbourne City
On 3 August 2014, Robert Koren was announced as a marquee signing for Melbourne City in the A-League. After missing the first 10 games of the season with injury, on 20 December 2014 Koren made his debut in the Melbourne Derby, coming on as a substitute. On 30 December 2014, Koren scored a hat trick against Newcastle Jets in his first starting game. On 21 January 2016, he was released from his contract to pursue new opportunities.

Personal life
Koren is married and has two sons and a daughter, Nal, Tian and Nia Koren.

Career statistics

International 

Scores and results list Slovenia's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Koren goal.

Honours
West Bromwich Albion
 Football League Championship: 2007–08

Hull City
 Football League Championship: runner-up 2012–13
 FA Cup: Runner-up 2013–14

Individual
 Kniksen Award: Midfielder of the year in 2006
 Hull City Player of the season and goal of the season 2011–12

References

External links

 Player profile at NZS 
 

1980 births
Living people
Slovenian men's footballers
People from the Municipality of Radlje ob Dravi
Men's association football midfielders
NK Dravograd players
NK Celje players
Lillestrøm SK players
West Bromwich Albion F.C. players
Hull City A.F.C. players
Melbourne City FC players
Slovenian expatriate men's footballers
Slovenian expatriate sportspeople in Norway
Expatriate men's footballers in Norway
Slovenian expatriate sportspeople in England
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Slovenian expatriate sportspeople in Australia
Expatriate men's soccer players in Australia
Slovenian Second League players
Slovenian PrvaLiga players
Eliteserien players
English Football League players
Premier League players
A-League Men players
Marquee players (A-League Men)
Kniksen Award winners
Slovenia men's youth international footballers
Slovenia men's under-21 international footballers
Slovenia men's international footballers
2010 FIFA World Cup players
Slovenian football managers