[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Va'etchanan

n your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when thou rise up. And you shall bind them for a sign upon your hand, and they shall be for frontlets between your eyes. And you shall write them upon the doorposts of your house, and upon your gates." A closed portion ends here.

Moses exhorted the Israelites, when God brought them into the land and they ate their fill, not to forget the God who freed them from bondage in Egypt, to revere and worship only God, and to swear only by God's name. Moses warned the Israelites not to follow other gods, lest the anger of God wipe them off the face of the earth. A closed portion ends here.

Moses warned the Israelites not to try God, as they did at Massah, but to keep God's commandments and do what is right in God's sight, that it might go well with them, that they might be able to possess the land, and that all their enemies might be driven out before them. A closed portion ends here.

And when their children would ask the meaning of the commandments, they were to answer that they were slaves to Pharaoh in Egypt, and God produced marvelous and destructive signs and portents, freed them with a mighty hand to give them the land, and then commanded them to observe all these laws for their lasting good and survival. The sixth reading and a closed portion end with .

Seventh reading—Deuteronomy 7:1–11
In the seventh reading, Moses told the Israelites that when God brought them to the land and dislodged seven nations before them—the Hittites, Girgashites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites—the Israelites were to doom them to destruction, grant them no terms, and give them no quarter. The Israelites were not to intermarry with them, for they would turn the Israelites' children away from God to worship other gods, and God's anger would wipe the Israelites out. The Israelites were to tear down the nations' altars, smash their pillars, cut down their sacred posts, and consign their images to the fire.

The Israelites were a people consecrated to God, and God chose them from all the peoples on earth to be God's treasured people. God chose them not because they were the most numerous of peoples, but because God favored them and kept the oath God made with their fathers. Moses told them to note that only God is God, the steadfast God who keeps God's covenant faithfully to the thousandth generation of those who love God and keep God's commandments, but who instantly requites with destruction those who reject God. The maftir () reading concludes the parashah with , and  concludes the sixth open portion.

Readings according to the triennial cycle
Jews who read the Torah according to the triennial cycle of Torah reading read the parashah according to a different schedule.

In ancient parallels
The parashah has parallels in these ancient sources:

Deuteronomy chapter 5
The early third millennium BCE Sumerian wisdom text Instructions of Shuruppak contains maxims that parallel the Ten Commandments, including:
Don’t steal anything; don’t kill yourself! . . .
My son, don’t commit murder . . .
Don’t laugh with a girl if she is married; the slander (arising from it) is strong! . . .
Don’t plan lies; it is discrediting . . .
Don’t speak fraudulently; in the end it will bind you like a trap.

Noting that Sargon of Akkad was the first to use a seven-day week, Professor Gregory S. Aldrete of the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay speculated that the Israelites may have adopted the idea from the Akkadian Empire.

Deuteronomy chapter 6
 and 17, 13:5, and 33:3, ,  and 14:8, and , 11:9, 26:9 and 15, 27:3, and 31:20 describe the Land of Israel as a land flowing "with milk and honey." Similarly, the Middle Egyptian (early second millennium BCE) tale of Sinuhe Palestine described the Land of Israel or, as the Egyptian tale called it, the land of Yaa: "It was a good land called Yaa. Figs were in it and grapes. It had more wine than water. Abundant was its honey, plentiful its oil. All kind of fruit were on its trees. Barley was there and emmer, and no end of cattle of all kinds."

In inner-Biblical interpretation
The parashah has parallels or is discussed in these Biblical sources:

Deuteronomy chapter 4
 and  and  refer to the Ten Commandments as the “ten words” (, aseret ha-devarim).

In , Egypt is described as an "iron furnace". Solomon used the same image in his prayer at the dedication of the temple he built in Jerusalem. ().

In , Moses called heaven and earth to serve as witnesses against Israel, and he did so again in , , and . Similarly, Psalm  reports that God "summoned the heavens above, and the earth, for the trial of His people," saying "Bring in My devotees, who made a covenant with Me over sacrifice!"  continues: "Then the heavens proclaimed His righteousness, for He is a God who judges."

Deuteronomy chapter 5
Many commentators have called the account in  a fuller narrative of the events briefly described in .