[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wade Keyes

m October 1, 1863, until January 2, 1864, when George Davis became the fourth and last ordinary attorney general of the Confederacy. Keyes also served as Attorney General ad interim during the Christmas Holidays of 1861, in October and November 1862, in August 1863 and in September and October 1864.

Keyes wrote 23 of 218 opinions issued by the Confederate office of Attorney General. They are characterized by conservative construction, deference to common law and cautious interpretations of acts of the Confederate Congress. He sustained United States acts in force at the time of the withdrawal of the Confederate states from the Federal Union, if not replaced by Confederate law, and also relied on existing United States law when Confederate law was absent. Keyes argued that the Attorney General had no authority to issue opinions concerning constitutional questions other than when advising the president when he was about to sign or veto an act of congress. His reasoning was based on the constitutionally exercised legislative power of Congress; Congress had the right to determine what actions were to be taken. The Attorney General was restricted to limit his opinions to rulings of the judicial branch respecting constitutionality and lawfulness. Furthermore, Keyes, as well as Jefferson Davis, maintained that the President was obligated to enforce legislation although deemed contrary to the Constitution by the President. If Congress overrode the President's veto, he - as well as the subordinate officers of the government - was then bound to uphold the law. The fact that the Confederate Congress had failed to create a Confederate supreme court was neither considered by Keyes, nor by Davis.

Considering if the Virginia law that prohibited the use of grain for making whiskey was applicable when farmers distilled whiskey for delivery to the Confederate War Department, Keyes reached the same conclusion as the United States Supreme Court did in 1819 in McCulloch v. Maryland. Congress had the implied power to supply soldiers with whiskey since that was a reasonable means of supporting the army. State law could not interfere. Keyes clearly established that intergovernmental immunity not only prevented the states from interfering with the activities of the Confederate government, but also forbade the government from thwarting state actions. For this reason the Confederacy could not tax the states and the states could not tax the Confederate government. Nevertheless, government ownership of stock in a corporation was not enough to make the corporation free from state taxation. This rule also applied when a state bank acted as a fiscal agent of a state, but not when a state bank acted in its private capacity. When the Confederate government planned to requisition slaves for government use, he advised that the government was accountable for the value of any enslaved person seized and he recommended Congress to judge each case separately, which prompted it to create a slave claims board. Keyes also ruled that only military personnel could stand trial before court-martials.

Keyes was never considered for the position of Attorney General. A reason might have been his integrity. He was reprimanded by Jefferson Davis for having questioned the president's authority when he had intervened in cases where the accounting officers by law were to make independent rulings.

Postbellum lawyer
When the war was over, Keyes returned to Montgomery and reopened his legal practice. He moved to Florence, Alabama in 1867. In 1876 he was entrusted with the task of codifying the laws of Alabama together with Judge Fern M. Wood (who fell victim to a killer before the task was finished); the project was completed within the year. Keyes suddenly died in 1879.

Family
Wade Keyes was the oldest son of General George Keyes (1792–1833), a planter and merchant at Mooresville, and his wife Nellie Rutledge Keyes (1799–1834) from Tennessee. He was the grandson of Captain John Wades Keyes (1752–1839) and the brother of John Washington Keyes (1825–1892) and George P. Keyes (1829–?).

Wade's father George Keyes was born in Washington County, Virginia. Early in life he moved to Alabama with his twin brother. He served under Andrew Jackson as captain of a volunteer company and was later elected brigadier general of militia and bore the title of general all his life. George married Wade's mother in Sullivan County, Tennessee in 1820. Wade's grandfather John Wade Keyes was born in Mystic, Massachusetts, settled near Alexandria, Virginia, moved to Blountville, Tennessee and finally to Athens, Alabama.