[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Para (Special Forces)

enemy lines. The total strength of the Parachute Regiment stands at about 8,000-10,000 this includes one Rashtriya Rifles and two Territorial Army battalions, while the Para (SF) includes between 5,000-6,000 personnel or maybe more currently. They have to hide their identity from the general public.

The Special Group (aka 4 Vikas/22 SF/22 SG), a clandestine special forces unit which operates under Research and Analysis Wing, recruits from the PARA SF, MARCOS, Garud Commando Force. Currently the Para Special Forces consists of 15 battalions:
 1 PARA (SF) – Western Command
 2 PARA (SF) – Central Command
 3 PARA (SF) – South Western Command
 4 PARA (SF) – Northern Command
 5 PARA (SF) – 50(I) Para Brigade
 6 PARA (SF) – 50(I) Para Brigade
 7 PARA (SF) – 50(I) Para Brigade
 9 PARA (SF) –  Northern Command
 10 PARA (SF) – Southern Command
 11 PARA (SF) – Eastern Command
 12 PARA (SF) – Eastern Command
 13 PARA (SF) – Southern Command
 21 PARA (SF) – Eastern Command
 23 PARA (SF) – 50(I) Para Brigade
 29 PARA (SF) – 50(I) Para Brigade

Functions
 Intelligence gathering and special reconnaissance
 Sabotage of vital enemy infrastructure and communications through deep penetration and surgical strikes behind enemy lines.
 Covert and overt/direct action special operations as part of the Indian Army's counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency operations.
 Hostage rescue operations within and beyond Indian territory.

The unit is tasked with missions such as special operations, direct action, hostage rescue, counter-terrorism, special reconnaissance, foreign internal defence, counter-proliferation, counter-insurgency, seek and destroy, and personnel recovery.

Personnel

Selection

All Indian Special Forces operatives are volunteers. Some enter the Para regiments fresh from recruitment, while others transfer in from regular army units. They are put through a probationary period/selection process of three months for Para (Special Forces) battalions (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 21, 23 and 29 PARA SF). In order to be a Para (Special Forces) operator, all personnel are first required to qualify as Paratroopers; once selected the candidates may choose to advance to the SF selection, which takes place twice a year in the spring and the autumn term.

There are fifteen Para (SF) battalions and soldiers are selected accordingly. An example of this would be the 10 Para (SF) who are also known as Desert Scorpions. The probation period for this unit is three-months and the probationers are selected accordingly for desert warfare. The 9 Para (SF) who specialise in Mountain warfare go through a six-month course at the Special Forces training school in Nahan, Himachal Pradesh, which is followed by further specialised selection. This concept of geographical specialisation was eventually modified and each Para (SF) battalion is now trained to operate in various terrains and climatic conditions.

Soldiers of the Indian Army can volunteer for the course irrespective of rank. Depending on the battalion, the probation period is for three months which doesn't include additional time for specialized skills. Over the probation period, all soldiers are stripped of their ranks, including officers, and are known as probationers or probies. A probationer may opt to leave anytime during the course. The completion rate is under 12-15 per cent and this slightly high completion rate is because many probationers are drawn from their regimental battalions. Every Special Forces operator specialises in various skills such as weapons handling, demolition, navigation, communication, and medical. PARA (SF) usually work in small teams of only six men, focusing on strategic reconnaissance, surveillance, target designation (RSTAD), hostage rescue and direct action (DA) tasks, and are selected and trained accordingly. Those who complete the probation period and are inducted into the Para (SF) undergo further selection and training, but to earn the Balidan Badge or "Badge of sacrifice", they have to further survive being deployed in active operations in hostile zones.

Training centres and courses 
 Commando Training Wing, Belgavi, Karnataka
 4-week High-Altitude Commando Course, Parvat Ghatak School in Tawang, Arunachal Pradesh
 Desert Warfare School, Rajasthan
 High Altitude Warfare School (HAWS), Sonamarg, Kashmir
 Basic Combat Divers Course, Indian Navy's Diving School, Kochi
 Counter insurgency, at the Counter Insurgency and Jungle Warfare School (CIJWS) in Vairengte, Mizoram
 Special Forces Training School, Bakloh, Himachal Pradesh 
 Basic Parachuting and Combat free-fall training (HAHO and HALO) at the Parachute Training School, Agra & Army Airborne Training School, Agra

90-day Selection 
Some of the training during the 90-day selection includes: