[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# DADVSI

decade in more than 140 countries does not deserve the "originality" criteria because it was "banal", prior art in the market segment being already available.

In the light of this judicial decision, the jurisprudence is unclear as there is little software able to claim being the first of its kind.

Other contents of the law
The main focus of the law is DRMs and repression of peer-to-peer usage, but some other issues related to copyright were also included:
 Title II of the law clarifies the copyright regime over works of employees of the State or local governments;
 Title III toughens regulations over societies collecting money on behalf of copyright holders, and creates some tax credit for record companies;
 Title IV changes procedures for the "legal deposit" of works;
 Title V changes certain rules pertaining to the resale of works of art and remuneration of the artist, known as droit de suite.

Notable individuals and groups

Notable characters in the political debate included:
 Minister of culture Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres. He presented the initial draft of the text, as well as numerous amendments, on behalf of the gouvernement. Donnedieu de Vabres' personal character became an issue with some critics of the law, who underlined the incongruity of having a politician convicted of money laundering give lessons of morality and enact criminal penalties against Internet users.
 Deputies (members of the French National Assembly):
 UMP (centre-right; absolute majority - voted for the text on March 21, 2006, and on June 30, 2006)
 Christian Vanneste. He was, on behalf of the Commission of Laws, responsible for drafting the report on the proposed law. He represented the Commission in the debates.
 Christine Boutin. She opposed several clauses of the text, including the criminalisation of Internet users and measures perceived to be harmful to free software, and supported the "global license".
 Bernard Carayon. He famously remarked on TV that legislators were put under tremendous strain by powerful lobbies, up to the point of outright blackmail such as threatening to withdraw support for art in the deputy's constituency.
 Alain Suguenot
 Richard Cazenave
 UDF (centrist - opposed or abstained on June 30, 2006)
 François Bayrou. President of the UDF party, he famously stood against the creation of a "police of the Internet", against measures decried as harmful to free software, and in favour of the right to make private copies. The press commented that this was a way for Bayrou and the UDF to distance itself from the ruling UMP party, despite not formally being in the opposition.
 Jean Dionis du Séjour and Christophe Baguet were the reporters for the UDF party on the proposed law; they had a somewhat different perspective than Bayrou's.
 PS (centre-left / left - opposed on the March 21, 2006 and June 30, 2006, votes)
 Christian Paul
 Patrick Bloche
 Didier Mathus
Greens (left - opposed on the March 21, 2006 and June 30, 2006, votes)
 Martine Billard
 PCF (left - opposed on the March 21, 2006 and June 30, 2006, votes)
 Frédéric Dutoit
 Other personalities
 Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin (UMP): declared the law to be urgent, convene the mixed commission, and proposed the bill for a final vote.
 President of the UMP party Nicolas Sarkozy — following from the disagreements inside his own party, organized a "round table" so as to decide on a common position for his party. Some groups, including EUCD.info and the Odebi League, contend that he has effectively pushed in favour of the law and the so-called "Vivendi Universal" amendments.

Pressure groups:
 Software:
 Free software
 EUCD.info
 Free Software Foundation France
 AFUL and APRIL
 Proprietary software and DRMs
 BSA
 Authors' and artists' societies
 Opposed to the "global license" and supporting DRMs.
 Sacem
 SACD
 In favour of the "global license".
 ADAMI
 SPEDIDAM
 Consumers and Internet users
 Audionautes
 UFC Que Choisir
 Ligue Odebi
 Entertainment industry
 Vivendi Universal
 Lobbyist Sylvie Forbin (received the National Order of Merit on June 20, 2006 )