[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Confederation of Indian Industry

eleased by the NITI Aayog in 2018.

The CII Annual Meeting 2021 was organised on 11–12 August 2021 on the theme- “India@75: Government and Business working together for Aatmanirbhar Bharat.” Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, was the Chief Guest and delivered the inaugural address.

Young Indians
CII set up Young Indians (YI) in 2002 to engage youth leaders in nation building. YI is one of the founding members of the G20 Young Entrepreneur's Alliance (G20 YEA) and Commonwealth Alliance of Young Entrepreneurs – Asia Pacific (CAYE-A). Through MASOOM, Gift an Organ and Road Safety projects, the organisation connects youth in development work. It's student wing YUVA engages with students through 130 institutions in India. YI has participated in disaster relief operations and health emergencies such as COVID-19. Young Indians has 3,600 members across its 51 offices, and 29,500 students YUVA members from colleges in India.

Indian Women Network
CII launched Indian Women Network (IWN) in 2013 to develop women workforce and work towards challenges faced by them at the workplace. Through CII's National Committee on Women Empowerment, IWN engages with the government, industry and thought leaders to shape inclusive policy for women workforce. IWN has developed an online Gender Diagnostic Tool for companies to self-assess and identify strengths, gaps and opportunities to improve gender parity and develop their potential. It has also initiated Equal Opportunity Pledge for companies to ensure inclusive work environment for women.

National Foundation for Corporate Governance 
To promote voluntary, transparent and accountable corporate governance practices in India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs set up National Foundation for Corporate Governance (NFCG) as a Trust in the year 2003. It was set up in partnership with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) and Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). In the year 2010, Institute of Cost Accountants of India (ICAI) and National Stock Exchange (NSE) were included in NFCG as Trustees and in 2013 Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) also joined as Trustee. NFCG has been the catalyst in promoting highest standards of Corporate Governance in India and endeavours to make India a leader in Corporate Governance by setting a global benchmark.

References

External links

 

Trade associations based in India
Chambers of commerce in India
Non-profit organisations based in India
Organisations based in Delhi
Organizations established in 1895
1895 establishments in India