[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Caroline Glick

blatantly rallying support for carrying out the disengagement plan. On May 31, 2009, she received the Guardian of Zion Award from the Ingeborg Rennert Center for Jerusalem Studies at Bar-Ilan University.

She founded and edited the Hebrew language political satire website Latma TV from 2009 to 2013.

In July 2012, the David Horowitz Freedom Center announced the hiring of Glick as the Director of its Israel Security Project.

Politics
In a Jerusalem Post opinion piece on the subject of the Iran nuclear agreement published on August 13, 2015, Glick presented American Jewry at a crossroads, being threatened by President Obama to risk both alienation from the Democratic Party and a weakening of the traditional Israeli-USA relationship if the influential American Jewish leaders fail to support the nuclear deal.

In January 2019, she became a member of the Israeli New Right party. She unsuccessfully ran for election to the Knesset in the 2019 (April) elections in the sixth position on the New Right party's electoral list.

Reception
The Israeli Solution: A One-State Plan for Peace in the Middle East, Glick's advocacy of the annexation of the West Bank into a Jewish state, was published in February 2014. Glick wrote an introductory article for The Jerusalem Post. One reviewer in the United Arab Emirates' The National was intrigued, but found the book problematic and flawed, found the author's history to be "mendacious", and saw the likely result as collapse into civil war. Another review at the Asia Times earned more sympathy: The reviewer approves Glick's demographic study (although with caveat, due to Sergio Della Pergola), and concludes that, "If you read only one book about the Middle East this year, it should be Caroline Glick's".

We Con the World
In June 2010, Glick co-produced and appeared in We Con the World, a satirical video by Latma TV about the Gaza flotilla attempt to breach the Israeli blockade of Gaza. The video clip quickly gained over 3,000,000 hits from YouTube viewers, before being abruptly removed by the online hosting site due to alleged copyright infringement; Glick disputed the infringement charges, claiming a right of fair use. The video drew both criticism and praise. Writing for The Guardian, Meron Rapoport said the video was "anti-Muslim", while Eileen Read, writing for The Huffington Post, described the mocking of the flotilla crew as "tasteless and blatantly racist". Glick has dismissed claims that the video is offensive, saying: "The point of satire is to make people uncomfortable. We're not trying to be fair and balanced, we're trying to make a point."

Bibliography

Books
 Yahav, David; Amit-Kohntitle, Uzi. Edited and wrote several chapters. Israel, the Intifada and the Rule of Law. Israel Ministry of Defense Publications, 1993. .
 Gaffney Jr., Frank J.; et al. Contributions to "Part IV: Waging the 'War of Ideas'". War Footing: 10 Steps America Must Take to Prevail in the War for the Free World. Naval Institute Press, 2005. 
 Glick, Caroline. Shackled Warrior: Israel and the Global Jihad. Gefen Publishing House, 2008. 
 Glick, Caroline. The Israeli Solution: A One-State Plan for Peace in the Middle East. Crown Forum, 2014.

Documentaries
 Glick is featured as a speaker in the documentaries Relentless: The Struggle for Peace in the Middle East and Obsession: Radical Islam's War Against the West.

See also
 David Horowitz

References

External links

 

1969 births
Living people
American emigrants to Israel
American political writers
American women journalists
American women writers
American Zionists
Breitbart News people
Columbia College (New York) alumni
Counter-jihad activists
Israeli Jews
Israeli newspaper editors
Israeli women journalists
Israeli women writers
Jewish American writers
Jewish women writers
Harvard Kennedy School alumni
The Jerusalem Post people
Women newspaper editors
Writers from Chicago
Writers on the Middle East
New Right (Israel) politicians
Moskowitz Prize for Zionism laureates
21st-century American Jews
21st-century American women
Israeli satirists
20th-century Israeli military personnel
Women satirists
Israeli female military personnel