[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sean Hughes (politician)

ich was based on Huyton and Roby. At the 1983 general election Hughes was elected with a majority of 11,769. Although there was a national swing to the Conservatives, in Knowsley South the swing was to Labour and Hughes had a higher majority than there would have been for a Labour candidate in 1979.

In Parliament
Making his maiden speech on 27 June 1983, Hughes referred to the council estates that made up most of his constituency as "monotonous labyrinths, bleak, grimly regimented and dehumanising". He complained that the resources to improve the estates were being withheld and that parts of the constituency had unemployment problems even more severe than elsewhere on Merseyside. Later that year he deplored the closure of the Huntley & Palmers biscuits plant at Huyton, and pledged to raise the issue with the Government although he was sure they would refuse to intervene.

Hughes quickly grew disillusioned about some of the routine work of a "voting fodder" Member of Parliament, and began suffering what he called "backbencher blues"; where once he had been able to decide housing allocations, he now felt he could do very little for the same families. He did get on well with the catering staff of the Houses of Parliament; they nicknamed him 'Yosser', while he noted that they had trained at a catering college in his constituency. His Parliamentary speeches were often enlivened by historical allusions, and were often scathing of the Thatcher Government but also for good humour, which won him friends on both sides of the Commons. Hughes' good humour was said to desert him only on Monday mornings if Everton F.C. had been defeated at the weekend.

He was particularly passionate about improving education, serving on the Select Committee on Education from 1983. He also spoke forcefully on unemployment in his constituency, and was interested in the politics of Ireland, where he opposed extremist nationalism partly due to his understanding of European history.

Opposition whip
In 1984 Hughes was appointed as an opposition whip; it was said that he would regard being called a "loyalist" as an accolade. When Robert Kilroy-Silk resigned as MP for the next door constituency of Knowsley North, Hughes was chosen as the organiser for the campaign of his successor George Howarth who had been imposed on a Militant dominated CLP by the Labour Party headquarters. Militant had hoped to see one of their members selected, and some of their fury was taken out on Hughes. Howarth was comfortably elected in the by-election.

Hughes' skill as an organiser was also seen earlier that year when the FA Cup was a Merseyside derby played between Everton F.C. (which he supported) and their great local rivals, Liverpool F.C. Hughes realised that Scottish MPs were given two free tickets to the English FA Cup in which few were interested; he lobbied nearly all the 72 Scots asking if they wanted the tickets or would give them to his constituents. The response was said to be good.

Shadow Defence minister
Re-elected in the 1987 general election with a majority nearly doubled on 1983, Hughes was appointed as a member of the defence shadow ministerial team to speak on issues relating to the Army. His historical knowledge came to be very helpful and Hughes established a strong reputation for being able to spot weaknesses in Government policy; Ministers were said to have made sure they were well briefed when facing him. A report in the Conservative supporting Daily Telegraph described him as "the sort of MP that Labour doesn't deserve to have", a joke which Hughes himself reportedly enjoyed.

He had been a lifelong supporter of unilateral nuclear disarmament and CND, but the Labour Party was embarking on a policy review. When Denzil Davies resigned as Shadow Secretary of State for Defence and was replaced by Martin O'Neill in 1988, Hughes assisted the team in helping to draft a new defence policy which would not lose votes for the party (as the policy in 1987 was thought to have done). He organised a referendum in his constituency party which appeared to repudiate unilateralism: 68% of party members thought that Britain should give up nuclear weapons only if other countries did so too. The Labour Party adopted a policy of multilateral disarmament at its 1989 conference.

Death
Hughes had been suffering from cancer for some time before his death in June 1990, one of three Labour MPs on Merseyside to have died in their 40s that year. He left a wife and young daughter.

References
 The Times Guide to the House of Commons, Times Newspapers Ltd, 1987 & 1992

External links
 
 ITN news report from 5 October 1988 in which Hughes is interviewed

1946 births
1990 deaths
Alumni of the University of Liverpool
Alumni of the University of Manchester
Deaths from cancer in England
Councillors in Merseyside
Labour Party (UK) MPs for English constituencies
People from Huyton
UK MPs 1983–1987
UK MPs 1987–1992
Politics of the Metropolitan Borough of Knowsley