[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blackheath railway station, New South Wales

h windows with multi-paned upper sashes and coloured glazing, timber panelled doors with multi-paned fanlights, and chimney breasts. Later modifications included changes to all other room finishes including plasterboard ceilings with simple cornices, tile and carpet flooring and new toilet fittings.

Island platform
Blackheath Station has an island platform, completed in 1898, in slightly curved form, which is wide at the centre and narrow at both ends of the platforms. This form is typical of Blue Mountains stations dictated by the topography and the deviation of the railway line. The platform is brick faced with brick projecting edge at the top and asphalt finish to the concrete deck. Platform furniture including period light fittings, and modern signage, timber bench seating and aluminium palisade fencing at both ends of the platform are other features along the platform. A number of small garden beds with small plantings and shrubs are scattered along the northern end of the platform.

Footbridge
A modified standard steel beam bridge, erected in 1911, supported on steel trestles with bracing extending from the street ramp over the highway and over the Up main tracks with stairs to the island platform and to both streets. With the exception of original steel structure all components of the bridge have been replaced since the 1990s. The footbridge has contemporary canopies and metal balustrades. In 2022 the construction of 3 lifts or elevators began with construction finishing in early June 2023 and opening ceremony held by The Hon. Jo Haylen (the transport minister at the time) on the 30th of June 2023.

Landscape
Station gardens, mature trees and landscaped surrounds within property boundaries adjoining the Council landscaped gardens. The plantings on the platform are not considered significant.

Shops
266 Great Western Highway consists of a pair of similarly scaled and configured retail buildings. Both have gabled roofs that assume a broken backed form above verandahs that span the footpath on the eastern sides of the buildings. The external surface walls are of textured cement render and symmetrical facades are designed with central doors flanked by large display windows. The varandah roofs are supported off similarly detailed chamfered timber posts.

The roof of the northern building is covered with fibro slates and features terracotta cresting and rams horn finials along the ridge. The display windows on the eastern side of the building have architraves and sills of cement render, the sills being formed into decorative scrolls and the heads being wide and splayed at each end. The door is partially glazed and divided into a number of glazed and solid panels; both door and windows have highlights over. The window at the southern end of the building is set into an arched opening and has a multi paned highlight over the main sash. The word "Auctioneer" has been formed in the cement render lining the northern wall.

The roof of the southern building is covered with terracotta tiles. The architrave around the windows and door in the eastern facade are more simple in design than those of the northern building, while the building has windows in each end consisting of casement type sashes with highlights over.

Condition 

As at 8 September 2008, the station building was in a good condition. Also in good condition were the platform and the footbridge.

Potential archaeological features
There are no known archaeological features. Although intact, the building has partially been reconstructed after the 1980s fire. Thus its integrity is moderate. Similarly, other than its steel beam structural elements the fabric of the footbridge has also been replaced in 1990 and has moderate integrity. The overall integrity of the station as a group is moderate.

Modifications and dates 
: original timber platform building was severely burnt  and approximately 40% of the structure that is extant today (at the Sydney end of the building) is new fabric.
post 1990: footbridge upgraded with covered deck etc.

Further information 

Also see separate listing for Blackheath Railway Station – Shops (266 Great Western Highway). The Relay Hut is not considered to be of significance and has been excluded from the listing. The nearby railway residence is in private ownership and is not part of this listing. Constructed in s the Station Master's residence is a type 5 standard railway residence (officially known as the "J1" or 'K1'). It is of brick construction with two corrugated metal hipped roofs over the main structure and the projecting bay presenting an asymmetrical facade with a side verandah featuring hipped awning supported on turned timber posts. Fenestration includes narrow tall sash windows with segmental arch lintels.

Transport links
Blue Mountains Transit operates two bus routes via Blackheath station, under contract to Transport for NSW:
698: to Katoomba
698V: Katoomba to Mount Victoria