[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# StandWithUs

ers said the pepper-spraying was unprovoked. The SWU activists said that the action was in retaliation for heckling of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu by JVP members the week before. Harris said they acted as individuals and not as part of an organized SWU action.

SJP amicus brief (2020) 

In 2020, SWU filed an amicus brief in support of Fordham University's decision to deny Students for Justice in Palestine's (SJP) application to become an official student group, leading SJP to file a successful lawsuit. The organization argued that the courts had limited jurisdiction in dictating private universities' decisions, that the decision was consistent with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, and that SJP violated the IHRA definition of antisemitism. The New York State Appellate Division eventually ruled in Fordham's favor and overturned the earlier ruling.

UC Merced Professor antisemitism allegations (2020) 

SWU and the Center for Combatting Anisemitism sent a letter to UC Merced asking it to take action regarding a professor who made tweets they labeled as antisemitic. One tweet had an image of the "Zionist Brain", in another tweet he wrote, "the Zionists and IsraHell interest have embedded themselves in every component of the American system, media, banking, policy." SWU expressed support for his constitutional right to free speech but expressed concerns that he'd publicly expressed hatred toward some of the people he was teaching. A formal investigation was launched and the professor was removed from the teaching roster for the spring semester.

Condemnation of Paul Gosar (2021) 
SWU called on Rep. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.) to apologize for his participation as the keynote speaker at the America First Political Action Conference (AFPAC) in Orlando, Florida. The event was organized by white nationalist and Holocaust denier Nick Fuentes. SWU's CEO stated that a sitting U.S. member of Congress attending a white-supremacist conference legitimizes racism and antisemitism, and she urged the Republican Party leadership to distance itself from Gosar, paralleling the actions taken against former Congressman Steve King for his racist comments.

Condemnation of Lara Sheehi (2022) 
SWU filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights against George Washington University. The complaint stemmed from an extracurricular event organized by psychoanalytic therapist and psychology professor Lara Sheehi featuring a talk by Nadera Shalhoub-Kevorkian, a Palestinian law professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem who is critical of Israel's policies. Some Jewish students felt unsettled by the talk and raised their concerns in Sheehi's class, accusing her and Shalhoub-Kevorkian of antisemitism. SWU took action by filing the complaint to address what they perceived as harassment of Jewish students. They alleged that the talk was a "two-hour diatribe" against Israel that left students feeling vulnerable and unsafe and that Sheehi had made offensive comments to a Jewish Israeli student earlier in the semester, telling her, "It's not your fault you were born in Israel", an allegation Sheehi denied. SWU also alleged that the university failed to properly investigate previous complaints against Sheehi, and cited private tweets of hers critical of Israel and Zionism, which she defended as a reflection of her anger at Israeli military actions and occupation. Sheehi disputed the allegations and claimed she was targeted as "an Arab woman whose scholarship and activism advocates for Palestinians". 

The complaint prompted the university to hire law firm Crowell & Moring to investigate the allegations. The subsequent administrative investigation cleared both GWU and Sheehi of wrongdoing and concluded that her comments were misrepresented. Despite this, Sheehi accused the university of failing to defend her, and the controversy surrounding her involvement in the event and the ensuing accusations of antisemitism caused significant division within the psychoanalytic community and sparked broader debates about the role of psychoanalysts in activism and politics and the limits of academic freedom.

Miscellaneous 
In 2009, following Israeli air strikes on Gaza set up a "Web Situation Room" to counter online criticism of Israel.

In January 2010, SWU sent a group of seven delegates to Harbin, China to showcase an exhibition entitled "Inside Israel", in the organization's first outreach venture in the country.

In May 2010, SWU invited Elvis Costello on a free VIP tour to Israel "designed to show Mr Costello the diverse nature of Israeli society and highlight the challenges Israel faces its efforts to promote peace." In 2016, the group dispatched an airplane that flew over the venue of a Roger Waters' set at Desert Trip, displaying the message, "Support Israel-Palestine Peace — Not Hateful Boycotts."