[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895)

The Japanese fought all day to clear the insurgents from their line of advance, but the village was not completely cleared until the morning of 26 August.  During the evening of 26 August the Japanese closed up to the Toa-to-kei river and prepared to assault the Formosan positions around Changhua.

During the night of 26 August, the Japanese crossed the Toa-to-kei river under cover of darkness, and at dawn on 27 August separate Japanese columns made a surprise attack on the Bagua battery and Changhua.  In a short and sharp early morning engagement generally known as the Battle of Baguashan, the Japanese stormed the Bagua battery and occupied Changhua. The Formosans suffered heavy casualties in this battle, and two of their commanders, Wu Tangxing and , were killed.  The Formosan forces fell back to Chiayi and Lukang.  The battle of Baguashan, the largest pitched battle ever fought on Taiwanese soil, was the decisive engagement of the invasion, and its loss doomed the Formosan Republic to early defeat.  Subsequent engagements merely postponed the end.

The battle was an impressive Japanese victory, and foreign observers praised the courage and skill with which the Japanese troops had captured such a strong position so quickly.  For the Japanese, the opportunity to defeat the Formosans in the open field was welcomed after the weeks of guerrilla fighting they had experienced since the start of their march south from Taipei.  The battle put an end to organized resistance against the Japanese in central Taiwan.  However, the Japanese declined to follow up their victory immediately.  After securing the coastal port of Lukang and the town of Perto at the end of August, the Imperial Guards temporarily halted their advance.  During September they consolidated their positions around Changhua and awaited the arrival of substantial reinforcements from Japan at the beginning of October.  During this lull in the campaign, a severe outbreak of malaria at Changhua ravaged the Japanese forces, killing more than 2,000 men.

Japanese capture of Talibu
The only significant military action in central Taiwan during the weeks following the Japanese capture of Changhua was a series of engagements in early September around Yunlin.  On 3 September the insurgents attacked the small Japanese garrison of the village of Toapona, to the south of Changhua.  Japanese reinforcements came up, and the insurgents were defeated and retreated towards Yunlin. A Japanese infantry company in the vicinity attacked the retreating insurgents and during the evening of 3 September pursued them as far as the walled city of Talibu, whose defences it scouted.  Three days later, during the night of 5 September, the Japanese returned and made a surprise night attack on Talibu.  The Japanese vanguard scaled the city walls and opened the gates for its comrades, who poured into the city firing volleys.  The Chinese garrison fled in confusion, and by 5 a.m. on 6 September Talibu was securely occupied by the Japanese.  Chinese and Formosan losses during these few days of fighting amounted to 130 killed, while Japanese losses were only eight men killed and wounded.

Phase Three: Chiayi, Takow and Tainan

A three-pronged advance 

The Japanese resumed their advance on Tainan in the second week of October.  The arrival of strong reinforcements (the 2nd Provincial Division, transferred from the Japanese 2nd Army in Manchuria, and part of the 4th Provincial Division, from Osaka) allowed them to approach Tainan from three directions at once.  On 10 October two task forces sailed from the Penghu Islands.  The smaller task force, 5,460 troops under the command of Prince Fushimi Sadanaru, landed at Budai,  to the north of Tainan.  The larger task force, 6,330 troops under the command of Lieutenant-General Nogi Maresuke, landed at Fangliao,  to the south of Takow and well to the south of Tainan. Its first objective was to capture the port of Takow. Meanwhile, the Imperial Guards Division, then at Changhua, was ordered to continue to press forward towards Tainan.  The division, 14,000 strong when it landed in Taiwan at the end of May, had been so reduced by sickness that it could now only with difficulty put 7,000 men into the field.  Nevertheless, the Japanese now had the numbers to make an end of the campaign.  Just under 20,000 Japanese troops would now close in on Tainan simultaneously, from the north, the northeast and the south.  Liu Yongfu could probably field a larger force, but the Chinese and Formosans were by now fighting merely to stave off defeat.  They had little hope of stemming the Japanese advance on Tainan.