[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Bob Carr

projects delivered Sydney a ring road system including the M5 Extension, the Eastern Distributor, the M2 Hills Motorway, the Westlink M7, the Lane Cove Tunnel, and the Cross City Tunnel. These projects had a total cost of 5.4 billion, while all but $800 million was contributed by the private sector.

According to the press release, in 2007 Infrastructure Partnerships Australia awarded three projects that began under Carr's Premiership as the best PPPs in Australia: the Westlink M7 opened in late 2005; school construction and maintenance which the Auditor General said had saved tax payers $55 million; and the maintenance of 626 new rail carriages. The focus on roads spending instead of public transport has been criticised as the wrong priority on environmental grounds: "It was clear even then that NSW desperately needed public transport investment."

Other matters
A year after his appointment as premier, Carr caused controversy when he recommended that the newly appointed New South Wales Governor, Gordon Samuels, not live at Government House, which would become a museum open to the public. This decision was seen by monarchists as an attempt by Carr, a republican, to downgrade the importance of the office of governor.

Carr's government was in power during much of the building of facilities and the conduct of the 2000 Olympic Games. Carr was to boast that the 2000 Olympics were paid in full without a cent in debt.

Resignation
By March 2004, public support for Carr started to slip; Newspoll showed that for the first time since 1998 more people were dissatisfied than satisfied with the Premier. There was a public view that the government had underspent on urban infrastructure and public transport. Despite a series of announcements and re-announcements of more trains, power stations and a desalination plant, by June 2005, only 35% were satisfied with his performance whereas his dissatisfaction rating had been over 51% since September 2004.

After a decade as Premier, Carr announced his resignation both as Premier and as the Member for Maroubra on 27 July 2005 to be effective from 3 August. His successor as Premier was former Health Minister Morris Iemma. Shortly after Carr's resignation, Andrew Refshauge and Planning Minister Craig Knowles also left parliament.

Legacy
Retired Premier Neville Wran described Carr as "the very model of a modern Labor premier, an articulate and powerful public performer who identified himself with the contemporary policy issues of education and the environment." Wran noted that the Carr model became a template for other Australian Labor Party leaders, with some regarding him as a mentor.

After Carr the NSW government was able to claim that while in 1994 there were 328 national parks covering four million hectares of NSW, Carr's policies increased this to 770 national parks covering 6.6 million hectares by 2006. Wilderness protection was expanded: there were  in 1994, by 2006 nearly two million hectares.

The North Side Sewage Tunnel, funded by the government in its first term, stopped more than 20 billion litres of sewage reaching Sydney Harbour and saw whales and dolphins return to it. The government also built pollution traps to capture litter and rubbish that would have otherwise been flushed with storm water onto Sydney beaches. In 1994, before the election of the government,  of waste was being generated by every Sydney resident each year, and only  being recycled. Reforms to the waste industry saw a 28 percent reduction to  per person and a 65 percent increase in recycling to  per person.

He received credit for the increase in the number and size of the state's national parks, while criticism was made about rail transport which recorded a period of poor on-time running and a damaging industrial dispute in 2004.

The Carr government is also known for its considerable infrastructure contribution. Total State Sector Real Growth from 1995 to 2005 was 41%.

Infrastructure projects completed when Carr was premier included the Eastern Distributor and M5 East, while projects that were under construction when Carr left office included three bus expressways costing $300 million in Western Sydney, Lane Cove Tunnel, Cross City Tunnel, the Epping to Chatswood railway line and the Westlink M7.