[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Society of Vijayanagara empire

The period of the Vijayanagara Empire is considered an age of prosperity in South India in the 14th century CE. Many travelogues written by visitors, ambassadors and authors of that time provide ample proof of a vibrant era. Agriculture was the main sustenance and the Tungabhadra was the life blood of the capital city.

Other major rivers that found their course through this land are the Krishna, Kaveri and Godavari. The most prosperous time during the 230 year rule of the empire was during the rule of the Sangama dynasty of which Deva Raya II was the most successful and during its peak under Krishnadevaraya. Progress was made in building of canals, fortifications, water storage tanks (bunds). Trading from the western sea ports with Europeans and Persians was profitable. Sculptures and quarry workers were in demand due to the prolific temple building activities undertaken.

People

Women had been achieving freedom for several centuries and continued the tradition. Women wore sarees and blouses while men were dressed only in a lower garment, though stitched clothes like shirts were occasional. Turbans, Pethas and Kulavi were popular headgear among the rich. Men wore jewellery just as women did; finger rings, earrings, necklaces, bangles and bracelets were popular. During celebrations, both men and women wore headbands with flowers and perfumes made of sandal wood, rose water, flowers, civet and musk. The discovery of several Game boards engraved onto boulders; sheet rock, temple flooring provide ample evidence of leisure based activities and social interaction at important public places. While many of these games are still played today, many are still to be identified.

Administration

Governance
In spite of all its glorious achievements in arts and architecture, the empire was essentially a war administration. Every aspect of the governance indicated its sole purpose, that of repulsing Muslim invasion. As the kingdom expanded, it maintained local traditions in areas annexed into the empire. Thus as a whole, the Hoysala, Kakatiya, Sena and Pandya administrative machinery was adjusted to current needs and retained. The government became more decentralized later with more autonomy given to Nayakas and Palyagars. 
The kings cabinet was composed of Mahapradhana (Prime minister) and several Pradhanas (ministers). All cabinet ranking officials were military trained and given the title Dandanayaka or Dandanatha. Caste was no bar to rise to high military positions and included officers from the Kuruba, Nayaka and Bedas.
Kavyakartha was chief secretary to the king and was also called Rayaswami. Navigadaprabhu was the naval chief. The use of paper for administrative purposes was popularised, though about 7000 stone and copper plate inscriptions (Shasana) have been discovered.
Taxes were levied on all land revenues. Taxes on homes, trader shops, marriage, toddy, salt and even prostitution has been confirmed.

Army
There were two types of armies. The republican guard and the feudatory armies which were expected to contribute in case of war. Krishnadevaraya had a standing army of 100,000 infantry, 20,000 horses and 900 elephants. Artillery was in use. Some travelogues speak of an infantry of 1.1 million expandable to 2 million.

Provinces
The empire was divided into Rajya or Mandala. There were six Rajyas each having its own language. Rajya was divided into Vishaya or Vente or Kottam in different parts of the kingdom, then further divided into Nadu followed by Kampana (or Sthala, a group of villages). The Rajya came under the rule of a member of the royal family or a very high ranking official close to the royal family, their posts being transferable. The feudatories of Madurai Nayaka in Tamil Nadu and Keladi Nayaka in Shimoga came directly under a commander. Hereditary families like the Pandya and the Santharas of South Canara administered their own territories as feudatories.
At the village level, the caretaker was a Gowda or a Karanika or Karnam along with a Kavalu (watchman). Important towns were overseen by a Adhikari (mayor). Local village Panchayat were encouraged.

Agriculture and Trade