[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lord Havok

ters, Havok reveals his trap: he has purposefully let the attacking metahumans into the base to lure them into a power-nullifying chamber. After decimating all but Monarch and Americommando (who is apprehended by Bluejay, who rebelled against the Meta-Militia), Havok agreed to join Monarch's forces.

In Countdown to Final Crisis #17, the Extremists are involved in Monarch's attack on Earth-51. In #13, Monarch's armor is breached by Superman-Prime and the entire Universe 51 is annihilated, however LHAE #6 reveals that Havok was able to siphon away a small amount of Monarch's power, allowing him to teleport away the Extremists and himself to a new base of operations within Angor's moon, a split second before Universe 51 was destroyed. Havok then reveals his intent to conquer the different worlds of the Multiverse.

The Multiversity
During The Multiversity storyline, a new version of Lord Havok appears on Earth 8. He claims to be the "greatest creation" of Frank Future, a Mister Fantastic pastiche, seeking to gather together the Omni-Gauntlets, the Genesis Egg and the Lightning-Axe of Wundajin (a Thor pastiche). He is seemingly killed by Deadeye, a Hawkeye pastiche.

DC Rebirth
A new incarnation of Lord Havok and the Extremists appears in Saratoga and battles Batman's Justice League before retreating to the Eastern European nation of Kravia, where on Angor Lord Havok was a prince before being passed over by his father. The Kravia of Earth is in turmoil due to a collapse of leadership, and Lord Havok retakes the country by offering them strength through his leadership. When Batman and the JLA arrive to confront the Extremists, they are forced to leave by soldiers acting under orders from the Kravian government who have voted to accept Lord Havok as ruler. The JLA then offer assistance to Kravian freedom fighters, and while Lord Havok is intimidating neighbouring nations to bring them under his rule, the Justice League confronts the Extremists in the various Kravian cities they are terrorizing.

Powers and abilities
Lord Havok wears a suit of cybernetic armor with built-in high-tech weapons. The armor gives him protection from physical and energy attacks, enhanced strength and endurance, can generate energy blasts and force fields, and has a built-in radar system to detect unseen threats and has targeting systems.

The Earth-8 version has an armor made from some kind of liquid metal, able to react to his thoughts and morph into blades and guns. Apparently, he also learned how to use "backwards speech" to effect magic in this world.

The Rebirth Lord Havok's armor is resistant to control from Dr. Diehard and Lord Havok refers to it as his 'skin'.  He also wields the Lightning-Axe of Wundajin and the shield of Crusader.

In other media 
 Lord Havok appears in the Justice League Unlimited episode "Shadow of the Hawk", along with the other Extremists when they attacked a city. He was defeated by Batman who threw a bomb in his mouth.

References

DC Comics supervillains
Characters created by Keith Giffen
Comics characters introduced in 1990