[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Steve Hilton

election. Since 2017, Hilton has presented the weekly show The Next Revolution on Fox News.

He was criticised for not rebutting his guest Ann Coulter when she falsely asserted that a recording of migrant children who were separated from their parents by the Trump administration crying were actors.

In March 2019, Hilton claimed that CNN, MSNBC, former CIA Director John Brennan, and former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper as well as Democratic congress members Adam Schiff and Eric Swalwell were the "real agents of Putin" for playing a role in "dividing" the United States over the myriad links between Trump associates and Russian officials and spies.

On June 1, 2023, Fox News announced that The Next Revolution would be ending its run as Hilton began “to focus on his new California non-partisan policy organization….” Hilton remains with the network as a contributor.

COVID-19 pandemic 
In 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States and shortly after social distancing measures and lockdowns were implemented, Hilton called on President Donald Trump to end the measures. Hilton criticised "our ruling class and their TV mouthpieces [for] whipping up fear over this virus". Hilton suggested that "the cure could be worse than the disease"; or more specifically that the long-term public health consequences resulting from the economic damage of a lockdown would be worse than the short-term public health consequences of the virus itself. Trump later appeared to mimic what Hilton said in one of his tweets.

In January 2021, Hilton asserted that the Wuhan Institute of Virology was the most likely source of the COVID-19 virus and falsely claimed that Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and chief medical advisor to the president, commissioned the work which led to virus's development. PolitiFact described Hilton's claims as "rely[ing] on a series of unsubstantiated allegations to spin a conspiracy theory about the virus being a lab creation.".

False 2020 election fraud claims 
After Trump was defeated by Joe Biden in the 2020 presidential election, Hilton promoted Trump's false claims of large-scale fraud on his Fox News show. Trump subsequently tweeted a string of Hilton clips.

Personal life 
Hilton is married to Rachel Whetstone, a former aide (political secretary) to Michael Howard, former head of communications at Google, former senior vice-president of policy and communications of Uber, and current chief communications officer of Netflix. The couple were godparents to David Cameron's son, Ivan, who died at the age of six. He became a U.S. citizen in May 2021.

References

External links 
 
 BBC Radio 4 – Profile, Steve Hilton
 Steve Hilton: 'I'm rich, but I understand the frustrations people have' | Politics | The Guardian
 

1969 births
Living people
Alumni of New College, Oxford
American people of British descent
American people of Hungarian descent
British expatriates in the United States
British political consultants
British political writers
Conservative Party (UK) officials
COVID-19 conspiracy theorists
English people of Hungarian descent
Fox News people
Naturalized citizens of the United States
People educated at Christ's Hospital