[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# French cruiser Algérie

Algérie was the last treaty cruiser constructed for the French Navy. Designed and built in response to the Italian's  of 8-inch gun cruisers, she was a totally new design and not based on the previous ships. The armoured caisson system used in  and  was abandoned in favour of a full armoured belt enclosing both the magazines and machinery spaces. She abandoned the unit propulsion system used previously and grouped her boilers forward leading to the reduction to a single funnel. She was one of the first vessels to utilize super heating boilers. Welding was used primarily in place of the normal rivetting in previous vessels. She maintained the same main armament but her secondary guns were increased to 100 mm guns. She served in the Mediterranean Sea after entering service then searched for German surface raiders at the beginning of the war. She was at Toulon, France, at the time of the Armistice and remained there until scuttled in November 1942.

Normally major ships of the Marine Nationale were named after famous people or statesmen but instead she was named to honour the 100 years of French colonial rule of Algeria.

Design and description

Hull and protection 
Ordered on 15 May 1930, she was laid down on 19 March 1931 as Project C4 with her hull designated as hull no 141 at the Arsenal de Brest. Algérie was launched on 21 May 1932. Her hull was  between the perpendiculars with an overall length of  and a beam of . At her normal displacement of  she had a draught of . Her full load displacement was . Her hull was flush decked with no raised forecastle. Her bridge structure was a tower and no tripod of the earlier ships would be installed.

Her protection would be an armoured belt  thick made of high tensile 80 kilogram (kg) steel. This belt varied in height from  to  from the forward main magazines to just aft of the machinery spaces. From the machinery spaces to the end of the after main magazines it was a uniform height of . It extended  below the waterline at normal displacement. Each end of the belt was joined by transverse armoured bulkheads of . The deck of the vessel had  of the 80 kg steel. The conning tower had  sides with a  roof. She was the first treaty cruiser to have an extensive underwater protection system against a hull breach.  The double bottom was extended up to the main deck. Inboard of this was the fuel bunkers. Between the machinery spaces and the fuel bunkers was a space of . The outer wall of the machinery spaces was  of 60 kg steel increasing to  to  at the ends providing splinter protection for the magazines and machinery spaces.

Machinery 
She was one of the first major vessels to utilize the super heating boilers which produced a pressure of  at . She would ship six vertical small tube boilers built by Indret. In boiler rooms 1 and 2 there were four identical boilers with a heating surface of . In boiler room 3 to starboard there was a larger model with a heating surface of  and a smaller one to port with only  of heating surface. The small boiler was for auxiliary systems and did not drive the turbines. The boiler rooms were all grouped just forwards of amidships reducing the vessel to a single funnel. Four Rateau-Bretagne single reduction gear steam turbines were fitted reverting to the four shaft arrangement of the s. These would produce 84,000 CV (chevaux or horses) for a designed speed of . She would carry 3,190 tons of oil fuel giving a range of  at  or  at .

Armament 
The requirement for main the armament of eight  guns housed in four armoured turrets with 120 rounds per gun and with maximum magazine storage of 150 rounds per gun during wartime was retained in Algérie.  The weapon used was the 203 mm/50 (8 in) Model 1924 naval gun. The guns were mounted in four Cruiser Two Gun Turret Model 1931 providing a separation of the axis of the guns by 74 inches. The turret was more heavily armoured. The face had  of 80 kg nickel-chrome steel plate angled at 41 degrees, the sides and roof were of  thickness with the back . The mount provided an elevation from minus 5 degree to plus 45 degrees with an elevation rate of ten degrees per second.  The mount could be trained to plus or minus 90 degrees from the centerline of the vessel with a train rate of six degrees per second. The guns could be loaded at any degree of train but only between minus 5 and plus ten degrees in elevation. The loading cycle started with the rammer cocked by the recoil of the guns. A dredger hoist brought the shell and two half charge bags to the breech. The rammer drove the shell into the breech with the powder being loaded by hand. The breech would close and the gun would be fired. The guns could maintain a rate of fire of four to five rounds per minute.