[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Immigration New Zealand

in renewing immigration applications had caused some people to be classified as overstayers.  Peter Elms, the Immigration NZ's director of operations for visa services, defended the Department's decision to shift services online and contended that clients could still contact INZ officials via phone.

Karel Sroubek controversy
In November 2018, drug smuggler and convicted Czech criminal Karel Sroubek was granted residency by Minister of Immigration Ian Lees-Galloway.

The controversy arose when in 2018, despite being in prison for smuggling MDMA, Sroubek's residency wasn't revoked, and he was granted a further visa by the then Immigration Minister, Iain Lees-Galloway. This decision drew criticism due to Sroubek's criminal activities, both in New Zealand and the Czech Republic. In response to public outcry, the Minister reviewed the case. In November 2018, following the review, Lees-Galloway reversed the decision, stating new information had come to light which contradicted the information considered in the original decision. Sroubek's residency was contingent on the fact that he could not return to the Czech Republic due to fears for his safety, but the new information suggested that he had returned on his own volition.

Israel-Palestine map
In mid–June 2019, Immigration New Zealand attracted criticism from the pro-Israel advocacy group Israel Institute of New Zealand after it published a map on its website which labeled Israel as Palestine. An Immigration NZ spokesperson clarified that the map had been published as part of its online fact sheets on the humanitarian situation in Palestine and New Zealand's refugee program. The Israel Institute's Director Ashley Church demanded that the Immigration Minister apologize to the Jewish community and confirm this did not represent New Zealand foreign policy. He also demanded that Immigration NZ issue an apology and take steps to prevent such incidents from recurring in the future.

On 20 June, the Immigration Minister Iain Lees-Galloway issued an apology to the Israeli Ambassador Itzhak Gerberg and said that immediate action had been taken to remove the diagram. Deputy Prime Minister Winston Peters described the map as a "careless and shoddy mistake" and criticized the handling of the incident as "an affront to the Israeli people."

NRI partnership visas
In mid October 2019, Immigration New Zealand controversially tightened their partnership visa policies to exclude applicants from India who were engaged in non-resident Indian (NRI) marriages. Since 2009, the New Zealand Government had made an exception for NRI messages at the advice of the Ombudsman. This ruling was criticized by the Indian community as racist. In early November 2019, the Government announced the reversal of the partnership visa  decision, restoring the exception for non-resident Indian marriages.

Suspension of Afghan visas
In early November 2021, Community Law Waikato challenged Immigration New Zealand's decision to stop processing visas by Afghan migrants and refugees in 2020 due to COVID-19 border restrictions.  Crown lawyer Robert Kirkness defended the department's decision, citing New Zealand's COVID-19 border restrictions. On 23 November, the High Court ruled that Immigration NZ was wrong to stop processing the Afghan interpreters' visa applications due to COVID-19 and not making an exception on humanitarian grounds in light of the 2021 Taliban offensive.

In late November 2021, Immigration NZ defied the High Court's ruling and issued a new ruling suspending the processing of Afghan visa applications, claiming that an external humanitarian crisis was not relevant to the determination of a travel request to travel to New Zealand. Following a judicial challenge by Community Law Waikato, the High Court ruled that the government department was wrong to halt processing Afghan visas due to COVID-19. However, travel plans for prospective Afghan migrants were hindered by the planned suspension of emergency flights organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT) over the 2021–2022 summer season.

In early February 2022, Radio New Zealand reported that only 17 of the 77 Afghan applicants had received a Family Support Category visa since November 2021. These 17 individuals were unable to enter the country due to a lack of official assistance from MFAT, which claimed that these applicants did not meet the criteria of people who had helped NZ agencies in Afghanistan and their immediate family members. Immigration New Zealand had initially assigned two staff members to process their visas following the court ruling but subsequently assigned nine personnel to processing Afghan visas. Community Law CEO Sue Moroney criticised the Government for preventing Afghan applicants from resettling in New Zealand.