[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Special Forces of Zimbabwe

ommando and Parachute regiments shaming the same. The Zim SAS being a special task force are trained first and foremost as a deep reconnaissance field intelligence-gathering unit behind enemy lines to obtain both tactical and strategic intelligence.They are trained to operate as universal soldiers. 

Once based at Kabrit Barracks, adjacent to Harare Airport and at Inkomo barracks under the command of Colonel Panga Kufa. The SAS has not, to date, allowed women to be recruited into the unit. In principle it is the equivalent of US army's Delta Force, UK 22 SAS regiment and Sayeret Matkal of the Israeli army. It is directly modelled after the British Special Air Service Regiment. Members of the Unit wear the sandy/beige beret with the flaming dagger imprinted their motto: "Who Dares Wins" like their Commonwealth counterparts. Once SAS candidates pass the designated selection and training courses, they earn the right to be called SAS operatives thus wearing the units distinguishing features. They then move on to their respective squadrons. Within these squadrons are different troops like Air, Mobility, Boat and Mountain troop. The Zimbabwe SAS beret, blue stable belt and other distinguishing features are generally the same as those of UK 22 SAS regiment showing their parentage and historical deep close links that once existed between the units. Members of the unit do not wear their uniform or distinguishing features publicly even during other army programs but rather wear those of other units outside their premises to enforce secrecy. All SAS operatives are trained in Counter Terrorism. The SAS also maintains close relations with the Military Intelligence Directorate as well as reports directly to the head of state. Selection and training are continuous while serving in this unit. This unit also has close links to the Zimbabwe Parachute Regiment as does the UK SAS and its Parachute regiment. Most volunteers who make up the SAS have generally an airborne background from the Parachute regiment.   

It is also trained in counter-terrorism, hostage rescue, the clandestine elimination of terrorists/terrorism both within and without the borders of the country,  surgical/precision strikes of very high value targets, HALO/HAHO parachuting, high risk  sensitive missions, direction of air strikes, counter insurgency,long range reconnaissance, special reconnaissance, VIP protection, anti hijacking, blackmail, sabotage, infiltration, kidnapping, direct action, surreptitious entry, psychological warfare, intimidation, counter intelligence, advance security operations, scrounging, assassinations, foreign internal defense, chemical and biological warfare, siege breaking, linguistics, proficiency in small arms, navigation, camouflage, stealth, unarmed combat, close quarter battle amongst others. It is reported that Zim SAS adopted some methods, doctrine and ways of doing things of the Selous Scouts of the Rhodesian Army. They also possess the capability of also training, organising, and advising a host nations para-military and military forces for the sustenance of internal security. When called for, they also possess the capabilities of aiding other Zimbabwe government agencies in the pursuit of strategic national operations. The Zim SAS is the most secretive of all Zimbabwe army units and the government never acknowledges their existence nor is its information readily available. Close links once exited between UK 22 SAS regiment and Zim SAS even cross training together to exchange skills and raise quality. However, since Zimbabwe conducted land reforms and severed good relations with the UK and its allies, the Zim SAS suffered by being excluded from participating in such crucial exchange programs. It remains the only unit in Africa and the only black country officially authorised to wear the distinguishing features of an "SAS operator" and also use the title, "Special Air Service". From their exploits in the Second Congo war, the SAS and commando regiments are forever honored from their professional performance as arguably the greatest ever special forces to ever operate on African soil and for that type of warfare. In the ZNA they are the most respected, mysterious and feared unit.