[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Nikolay Alexeyev

an activists in Minsk. The activists agreed to join efforts and launch the Slavic Pride movement. Nikolay Alexeyev offered his assistance to Belarusian activists to help raising the awareness about their struggle outside Belarus. Since then he is working with the group Gaybelarus.by and its leader .

In February 2009 Nikolay Alexeyev invited Sergey Androsenko (Siarhei Androsenka), the leader of Gaybelarus.by to join him and other Russian activists in a tour of European institutions (European Parliament and the European Commission on 12 February, Press Conference in Luxembourg with MP Jean Huss on 13 February, Council of Europe in Strasbourg on 14 February, and United Nations in Geneva on 16–17 February). They also took part in two manifestations in Strasbourg and Geneva trying to attract attention to the violations of the right to freedom of assembly in Russia and Belarus.

On 16 May 2009 the first joint Russian-Belarusian Slavic Pride took place in Moscow. City authorities denied permission for the event and police forces violently dispersed the participants of the manifestation at Vorobyevy Hills. Second Slavic Pride took place in Minsk on 15 May 2010. City authorise also denied permission for the march arresting eight participants in unsanctioned rally. Third Slavic Pride is planned to take place in St. Petersburg on 25 June 2011.

During his life in activism Nikolay Alexeyev was six times arrested by police for the organisation and participation in unsanctioned public events in Moscow: on 27 May 2006 next to the gates of Alexandrovsky Garden during first Moscow Pride, on 27 May 2007 next to Moscow City Hall during second Moscow Pride, on 2 December 2007 at the polling station where Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov was planning to vote in parliamentary elections, on 16 May 2009 during forth Moscow Pride, on 21 September next to Moscow City Hall demanding the resignation of Moscow Mayor on his birthday and on 12 October next to Moscow City Hall while participation in the so called Day of fury.

Campaign for same-sex marriages in Russia

In May 2009 Nikolay Alexeyev launched the campaign for the recognition of same-sex marriages in Russia. He became the lawyer and advisor of a lesbian couple, Irina Fedotova (Fet) and Irina Shipitko, who attempted to register their marriage in Tverskoy civil acts registration office of Moscow on 12 May 2009. They were denied and the legality of this decision was later confirmed by Tverskoy district court and Moscow City Court. In October 2009 Nikolay Alexeyev organized the couple's marriage in Toronto, Canada. In July 2010 two Irinas appealed the Russian ban on same-sex marriages in the European Court of Human Rights.

In November 2009 Nikolay Alexeyev founded "Marriage Equality Russia" in order to fight for the legalization of same-sex marriages in Russia. In January 2010 Ministry of Justice denied to register the organization citing a number of reasons and giving the reference to the Russian Family Code which defines that the marriage is based on the union between a man and a woman. Gagarinsky District court confirmed the legality of the registration denial citing morality grounds. Moscow City Court has not considered the appeal yet.

Campaign against gay blood donation ban in Russia
During several years Nikolay Alexeyev and his fellow activists campaigned for the repeal of the ban on blood donations by homosexual men which was imposed in the regulations of the Russian Health Ministry. On 14 September 2007 gay activists organized an unsanctioned picketing of the Ministry building against the ban. The gathering was dispersed by police forces. The same day Nikolay Alexeyev and a few other activists attempted to donate their blood in Moscow's Central blood transfusion centre but they were turned away. The result of this campaign came in spring 2008 when the Health Ministry amended its regulations and repealed the ban. It was the first legislative change in favor of homosexual people in Russia since the repeal of criminal prosecution for male homosexual conduct in 1993.

Campaign against "homosexual propaganda" ban
In March 2009 Nikolay Alexeyev, together with Moscow Pride activists Nikolay Baev and Irina Fet, launched a campaign against the law of Ryazan region of Russia which prohibit "homosexual propaganda" to minors. Local courts and Russia's Constitutional Court ruled that the limitations are legitimate. This case is currently waiting its consideration in the European Court of Human Rights and the United Nations Human Rights Committee.

Fighting hate speech
Nikolay Alexeyev consistently supports criminal prosecution of politicians, officials and public figures for the incitement of hatred towards people on the basis of their sexual orientation and gender identity.