[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Vehicle routing problem

t the number of vehicles leaving the depot is the same as the number entering. Constraints   are the capacity cut constraints, which impose that the routes must be connected and that the demand on each route must not exceed the vehicle capacity. Finally, constraints  are the integrality constraints.

One arbitrary constraint among the  constraints is actually implied by the remaining  ones so it can be removed. Each cut defined by a customer set  is crossed by a number of arcs not smaller than (minimum number of vehicles needed to serve set ).

An alternative formulation may be obtained by transforming the capacity cut constraints into generalised subtour elimination constraints (GSECs).

which imposes that at least arcs leave each customer set .

GCECs and CCCs have an exponential number of constraints so it is practically impossible to solve the linear relaxation. A possible way to solve this is to consider a limited subset of these constraints and add the rest if needed. Identification of the needed constraints is done via a separation procedure. Efficient exact separation methods for such constraints (based on mixed integer programming) have been developed.

A different method again is to use a family of constraints which have a polynomial cardinality which are known as the MTZ constraints, they were first proposed for the TSP  and subsequently extended by Christofides, Mingozzi and Toth.

where  is an additional continuous variable which represents the load left in the vehicle after visiting customer  and  is the demand of customer . These impose both the connectivity and the capacity requirements. When  constraint then  is not binding' since  and  whereas  they impose that .

These have been used extensively to model the basic VRP (CVRP) and the VRPB. However, their power is limited to these simple problems. They can only be used when the cost of the solution can be expressed as the sum of the costs of the arc costs. We cannot also know which vehicle traverses each arc. Hence we cannot use this for more complex models where the cost and or feasibility is dependent on the order of the customers or the vehicles used.

Manual versus automatic optimum routing
There are many methods to solve vehicle routing problems manually. For example, optimum routing is a big efficiency issue for forklifts in large warehouses. Some of the manual methods to decide upon the most efficient route are: Largest gap, S-shape, Aisle-by-aisle, Combined and Combined + While Combined + method is the most complex, thus the hardest to be used by lift truck operators, it is the most efficient routing method. Still the percentage difference between the manual optimum routing method and the real optimum route was on average 13%.

Metaheuristic

Due to the difficulty of solving to optimality large-scale instances of vehicle routing problems, a significant research effort has been dedicated to metaheuristics such as Genetic algorithms, Tabu search, Simulated annealing and Adaptive Large Neighborhood Search (ALNS). Some of the most recent and efficient metaheuristics for vehicle routing problems reach solutions within 0.5% or 1% of the optimum for problem instances counting hundreds or thousands of delivery points. These methods are also more robust in the sense that they can be more easily adapted to deal with a variety of side constraints. As such, the application of metaheuristic techniques is often preferred for large-scale applications with complicating constraints and decision sets.

Classification of solution strategies 
Most solutions to the vehicle routing problems can be classified as one of the following approaches:

See also
 Chinese postman problem
 Vehicle rescheduling problem
 Arc routing
 List of graph theory topics

References

Further reading

Travelling salesman problem
NP-complete problems
Combinatorial optimization