[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Channel 1 (Israel)

The channel began its broadcasts at 17:30. When the first hour was dedicated to children's programs, between 18:30 and 20:00 in the evening for broadcasts in Arabic (some claim that their purpose was propaganda), followed by four hours of television broadcasts for adults between 20:00 and midnight.

Most of the hours of Hebrew broadcasting in the 1970s for adults were allocated to the screening of foreign films, documentary content, and commercial series mainly from the United States and the United Kingdom. When the original Hebrew programs that were not current affairs programs were mainly interview programs (such as Petals), programs about a Hebrew singer (such as Sarti Lech Artzi), as well as entertainment formats, some of which were imported from the United States (such as local versions of I've Got a Secret and Hollywood Squares). The most prominent current affairs programs were Mabat LaHadashot that was broadcast at 9pm, which was estimated to be watched daily by about 70% of the owners of television receivers, This Week that summarized the week's news, and Moked, which was broadcast once a week and interviewed a senior politician. Original scripted content was almost never produced, with the most prominent among them in the 1970s being the sketch show Havoorat Lool, the satire program Niki Rosh and the drama series Hadva and Shlomik.

The Yom Kippur War that broke out in October 1973 was the first war in which Israelis were able to watch Mabat's live images from the scene of the battles, close to the actual events, which raised the importance of the television medium in the field of current affairs.

On 19 November 1977, Egyptian President Anwar Sadat landed in Israel for a three-day visit and Channel 1 covered the course of the visit in color for the first time. In 1979, the Eurovision Song Contest was broadcast from the IBA's buildings in Jerusalem live in color to the world and also in local distribution. Despite winning, Israel withdrew in 1980 over the cost of production and failure from the government to increase the IBA's budget. In the following years, Israeli television will carry out additional broadcasts in color in a limited and irregular periodicity. And only in February 1983 did regular color broadcasts begin, with the first color edition of Mabat broadcast on 16 February. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, talk shows of an entertainment nature joined the Hebrew broadcasting schedule on Shabbat evening to provide further entertainment, similar to the late night talk-show format that exists in the United States since the 1950s.

In 1985, the "Israel Television in Arabic" department was awarded the prestigious Israel Prize, for its special contribution to society and the State.

On 15 May 1990, Channel 1 began to distribute its broadcasts on a regular and regular basis also through a communication satellite and this as an addition to the use of terrestrial transmitters that had been customary since the beginning of the channel's operations.

The introduction of cable television and the second channel to Israel in the early nineties undermined the monopoly of the first channel. The most prominent programs that were broadcast in the nineties on Channel One were political debates Popolitica and the satire series The Fifth Chamber, which was broadcast at the beginning of Channel 2. Until 1994 the channel was called HaTelevizia HaKlalit (, lit. General Television) or HaTelevizia HaYisraelit (, lit. Israeli Television), but officially became known as Channel 1 shortly after Channel 2 started broadcasting on 4 November 1993.

At the start of the 21st century the channel lost its image. Its ratings dropped, it was given the image of an "adult" channel, and criticism of it rose in light of the fact that its budget was extensive and was paid through the television fee.

On 6 May 2012, the channel's broadcast schedule was changed. In the new schedule, an attempt was made to compete with the commercial channels during the prime time hours. As part of the changes, the main news (up until then at 9pm) was moved from 8 minutes to eight and shortened to 38 minutes. After "Mvat" the channel aired the program "HaMosaf" hosted by Geula Even. Every evening at 19:00 the reality program "Let's eat with me" was broadcast, followed by "Hayom Be Sport" – a daily sports magazine.

Technology