[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of South African slang words

hat's right under their nose. Used in conjunction with "As dit 'n slang was, dan sou hy jou gepik het"
 laatlammetjie – lit. "late lamb", refers to the youngest child in a family, specifically if there is a significant age-gap between the child and their older sibling (or more specifically when there is 3 or more siblings; the 2nd youngest sibling). It should also be considered that the parents' are at an advanced age at that point. Laatlammetjies refer to a set of youngest siblings that are close in age to each other, but with a significant age gap between their older siblings. For example: Charlie Duncan (4yrs old) and Toby Duncan (1yr old), from the Disney Channel series Good Luck Charlie, are 12 and 16 years younger (respectively) than their older middle-brother Gabe Duncan.
 laf - to be silly or funny. Jy's laf! You're laf boet! "Ek klap 'n ding wat laf raak!" (Jokingly "clap"). (Soft way of saying you've lost it or you're a clown!)
 lag – to laugh. For example: They lag at the joke.
 laaitie, lighty – a younger person, esp. a younger male such as a younger brother or son
 lank – lots/a lot
 langeraad – (pronounced: "lung-A-raat") cutesy nickname given to a really tall person
 lang maer blonde man – a slight contrast to the phrase "tall, dark and handsome", it describes a goodlooking tall blonde-haired, and usually blue-eyed, man.
 laanie, larny – (n) boss, used in a different tone. (adj.) fancy
 las – 1. an act that is undesirable to commit, a burden. 2. To tell someone or suggest to stop doing an act. (origin: something that is slowing you or an object down; for example, "'n Las in die pad.", meaning "An object as in a stone in the road."). 3. To physically join two separate objects together: (Las die punte van die twee toue aanmekaar; Tie the two ends of the ropes together.)
 leeuloop – lit. "lion walk". Popularized by singer-comedian Robbie Wessels in the song of the same name, it refers to a sexual dance (but slightly more humorous than vulgar). The song mainly describes a man getting down on all fours, clenching two balls (of "any" type) between his legs and pretending to be a lion by roaring.
 lekker – (lit. tasty) It means pleasing, tasty, nice, good, great, delicious. Lekker is used for just about anything you find nice. "How was the party? Lekker", "I met a lekker chick last night", "local is lekker, a popular slogan promoting South African culture and produce", "How is that steak? Lekker bro". Unlike its English counterpart "nice", use of the word "lekker" is actually promoted instead of frowned upon despite being very commonly used. It is speculated that "lekker" will never become clichéd. 
 lorrie – lit. "truck". Derived from the English word "lorry" with an identical meaning, the term gained popularity after the British colonized South Africa. Though "trok" (the proper Afrikaans translation for "truck") is still in use, it has been heavily replaced with the slang term "lorrie". Is sometimes used to jokingly compare cars that are just as difficult to drive as an actual truck.
 los or loskind – lit. "loose, loose child."  A really slutty girl, usually wears revealing clothes and is easy to get with (for example: "Sarah is 'n fokken loskind!")
 loskop – air head, literally a "lost head" refers to someone whose head is in the clouds, clumsy, forgetful.
 loslappie – a person who sleeps around a lot (i.e. "whore/manwhore", but not as derogatory)
 lus – to have a craving for. "I lus for a cigarette". (Also see "smaak".)
 ma-hulle/ma-le/pa-hulle/pa-le – collective references to both parents which can be either centered around the mother (ma) or father (pa). Based on the word hulle (them).
maag wil werk – lit. "stomach wants to work", a polite way to say you need to shit as soon as possible. Often used in conjunction with "maag is omgekrap" (upset stomach).
 maak soos Rokoff en fokkoff! – lit. "make like Rokoff and fuckoff!" Of unknown origin, is a crude way of telling someone to go away. Is similar to the English sayings like: Make like hay" and "Make like eggs, and scramble".
 maaifoedie – motherfucker, as in "Jou maaifoedie"
 maat – friend (OED), also partner (wife, girlfriend)
 mal – mad, crazy, insane
 malhuis – lit. "looney bin"
 mallie – mother
 mamparra – idiot. Also refers to a dud or a brick made from recycled clay/mortar.
 melktert/milk tart – a traditional custard tart of Dutch origin. Unlike a conventional custard tart, a melktert has a strong milk flavour and is best served with a dash of cinnamon sprinkled on top.
 mengelmoes-kardoes – lit. "variety-case". Refers to a larger variety of "thrift" being on offer.
 mielie – millet corn (AmE) / maize (BrE), staple diet. The base ingredient of Mielie-meal, which is the flour of choice to make Pap (also called mieliepap), a popular type of porridge.
 mmchakawally – cigarettes
 moegoe – stupid person, coward, or weakling
 moffie – male homosexual (derogatory). Can be compared to "fairy". From "mofskaap", castrated sheep.
 moer – to hit / to