[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of nuclear holocaust fiction

inehart, 1983
 Malevil by Robert Merle
 The Martian Chronicles by Ray Bradbury
 Metro 2033 by Dmitry Glukhovsky
 The Metrozone Series by Simon Morden
 Nineteen Eighty-Four by George Orwell 
 Not This August by C.M. Kornbluth
 Obernewtyn and subsequent novels in the series by Isobelle Carmody
 On the Beach by Nevil Shute
 One Second After by William R. Forstchen
 The Outward Urge, by John Wyndham and Lucas Parkes
 The Pelbar Cycle Book One (Beyond Armageddon) by Paul O. Williams
 Plan of Attack, a 2004 thriller by Dale Brown
 The Postman, a 1985 post-apocalyptic novel by David Brin
 Prayers for the Assassin, by Robert Ferrigno
 Prime Directive, by Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens; a Star Trek novel where an alien civilization is apparently destroyed by a sudden, unexpected nuclear war among its own people
 Pulling Through, by Dean Ing; first half of the book is a novel on a family surviving a nuclear blast, the second half is a non-fiction survival guide
 Red Alert, by Peter George
 Resurrection Day by Brendan DuBois
 Riddley Walker by Russell Hoban
 The School for Atheists by Arno Schmidt
 Second Ending, by James White
 The Seventh Day by Hans Hellmut Kirst (original title Keiner Kommt Davon)
 Shadow on the Hearth by Judith Merril (1950) – a novel about a traditional housewife's ordeals in the aftermath of nuclear attack
 The Silo Series by Hugh Howey (2011) – A nuclear exchange is used to cover up a nano-bot attack.
 Single Combat by Dean Ing (second in the Ted Quantril trilogy)
 A Small Armageddon by Mordecai Roshwald
 Star Man's Son by Andre Norton (1952) – a post-apocalyptic novel that takes place about two centuries after the Great-Blowup. It is titled Daybreak – 2250 AD in reprint editions.
 The Steel, the Mist, and the Blazing Sun by Christopher Anvil
 The Survivalist by Jerry Ahern
 Swan Song by Robert McCammon
 Systemic Shock by Dean Ing (first in the Ted Quantril trilogy)
 Tengu (Novel) by Graham Masterton
 Test of Fire by Ben Bova
 There Will Be Time by Poul Anderson
 This Is the Way the World Ends by James Morrow
 This Time Tomorrow by Lauran Paine
 Time Capsule by Mitch Berman
 Tomorrow! by Philip Wylie
 Trinity's Child by William Prochnau (1983)
 Triumph by Philip Wylie
 The Valley-Westside War by Harry Turtledove
 Vaneglory by George Turner
 Viper Three by Walter Wager
 Warday by Whitley Strieber and James Kunetka
 When the Wind Blows by Raymond Briggs
 Wild Country by Dean Ing (Third in the Ted Quantril Trilogy)
 The Wild Shore by Kim Stanley Robinson
 The World Next Door by Brad Ferguson
 The World Set Free by H. G. Wells
 Worldwar series by Harry Turtledove – alternate history: World War II turns nuclear in 1943; another nuclear war in the 1960s
 Z for Zachariah by Robert C. O'Brien

Short stories
 "The Blast" by Stuart Cloete (1947), published in 6 Great Short Novels of Science Fiction, ed. Groff Conklin, 1954
 "Thunder and Roses" (1947) by Theodore Sturgeon 
 "Not with a Bang" (1949) by Damon Knight
 "The Last Word" (1956) by Damon Knight
 "A Clean Escape" (1985) by John Kessel
 "The 16th October 1985" (2009) by James Plumridge
 "The Edge of the Knife" (1957) by H. Beam Piper
 "Lot" (1953) and "Lot's Daughter" (1954) by Ward Moore (inspiration for the film Panic in Year Zero!)
 "There Will Come Soft Rains" by Ray Bradbury (1950)
 "Preview of the War We Do Not Want", published in Collier's Magazine (1951)
 "If I Forget Thee, Oh Earth" by Arthur C. Clarke – featuring a boy living in a colony on the moon, left isolated by the destruction of the Earth
 "A Boy and His Dog" by Harlan Ellison (1969)
 "Fermi and Frost" by Frederik Pohl (1985)
 "Tight Little Stitches in a Dead Man's Back" by Joe R. Lansdale (1986)
 "The Custodians" by Richard Cowper
 "Summer Thunder" by Stephen King
 "By the Waters of Babylon" by Stephen Vincent Benet (1937)
 "100 days in nuclear war" by The Infographics Show

Short story collections
 Countdown To Midnight, 1984, edited by H. Bruce Franklin
 Beyond Armageddon, 1985, edited by Walter M. Miller, Jr. and Martin Harry Greenberg
 Nuclear War, 1988, edited by Gregory Benford and Martin Harry Greenberg
 The Folk of the Fringe, 1989, Orson Scott Card