[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor

its work through donations. The amount of work and research that could be done for a better human rights awareness in Hong Kong is affected by the amount of donations that come into the HKHRM fund. Donations are appreciated and non-refundable, but any legitimate donation is welcomed by the Monitor.

HKHRM received substantial funding from the National Endowment for Democracy, an organisation predominantly funded by the United States Department of State.

Alliance
Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor is one of the member organisations of the Civil Human Rights Front (民間人權陣線). Other member organisations include the Democratic Party, The Frontier, Hong Kong Human Rights Commission, Hong Kong Journalists Association etc.

Incidents

Rejection of applications
According to the HKHRM Director Law Yuk Kai, in 2003, a member with "concept different from the Monitor's" tried to allow tens of people join the Monitor just before the election of its chairperson and vice-chairperson. That member hoped to change the leading group by having people on his/her side taking part in the election and voting in it. However, their application for membership was rejected. According to the then chairperson, some senior members "succeeded in sticking to the Monitor's regulations" and claimed that those tens of people could not join the Monitor because they had not elaborately communicated with the Director Mr Law. Consequently, that member "with different concept" also left the Monitor.  Those “regulations” can neither be found in the Monitor’s homepage nor their membership application form. According to the Monitor’s homepage, to join the Monitor, a person needs only to pay $100 and complete the application form. Besides, “the one essential qualification for membership is a genuine commitment to human rights and the rule of law” and “members... are free to take as much or as little part in the Monitor's activities”. It does not state that people have to contact the Director before they apply for membership. Neither has it given any definition for “genuine commitment to human rights and the rule of law”.

See also
Human rights in Hong Kong
Hulu Concept

References

External links

Human rights organisations based in Hong Kong
Member organisations of the Civil Human Rights Front