[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Polar auxin transport

ls have been proposed to regulate PIN polarity.

Vesicle Trafficking 

The asymmetrical localisation of PIN efflux carrier protein at the plasma membrane has been shown to involve the localized targeting of vesicles and the local regulation of endocytosis. The latter involves the actin cytoskeleton.

Inhibitors of the transport 
In research, 1-N-Naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA) and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA) are used as specific inhibitors of the auxin efflux.

Quercetin (a flavonol) and Genistein are naturally-occurring auxin transport inhibitors.

9-Hydroxyfluorene-9-carboxylic acid (HFCA), TIBA, and trans-cinnamic acid (TCA) are also example of Polar Auxin Transport Inhibitors. They prevent the development of the bilateral growth of the plant embryo during the globular stage. All 3 inhibitors induce the formation of fused cotyledons in globular but not heart-shaped embryo.

Phosphorylation 
Polar auxin transport can be regulated by reversible protein phosphorylation; protein kinases and protein phosphatases mediate the phosphorylation and dephosphorylation, respectively. A study suggests that phosphatase inhibition can alter the activities of acropetal and basipetal auxin transport. With decades of studies, multiple kinases have been reported to phosphorylate PIN proteins, including PINOID, D6PK, PAX, MPK6 and CRK5; and phosphorylated PIN proteins can be oppositely dephosphorylated by Protein Phosphatase 2A (PP2A), Protein Phosphatase 1 (PP1) and PP6. The AGC family of kinases play essential roles in catalyzing PIN phosphorylation and in regulating PIN function. 3'-Phosphoinositide dependent protein kinase 1 (PDK1), also from the AGC family, is a critical activator of AGC kinases and is thus also involved in the regulation of PIN-mediated auxin transport. PINOID and D6PK share at least three phosphosites (P-sites) at the cytoplasmic loop (also called hydrophilic loop) of long PIN proteins, but their functions are not all the same. both of the two kinases can increase PIN activity via phosphorylation. However, PINOID (non-polar)-mediated phosphorylation also determines the apicobasal polar targeting of PIN proteins, i.e., more phosphorylation, more apical. D6PK and its homologs localize at the basal side of plasma membrane, modulating the rootward auxin fluxes and subsequent developmental processes.

References

Auxin action
Plant organogenesis