[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Typhoon Durian

stranding thousands of people for several days. All shipping traffic was halted in the Mimaropa region. The Philippine Coast Guard grounded all vessels on open waters, stranding around 4,000 ferry passengers in Quezon province. PAGASA turned off its weather radar in Virac to prevent damage.

Vietnam

On November 30, while the typhoon was over the Philippines, the Central Committee for Flood and Storm Control and the National Committee for Search and Rescue sent telegraphs advising of the typhoon to search and rescue teams stationed along the entire coast of the country (Quảng Ninh province to Cà Mau). All provinces along the South China Sea were advised to assist an estimated 14,585 vessels in the path of the storm. All craft were later banned from leaving harbors. Requests were also made to neighboring countries to allow Vietnamese fishermen to take refuge in their ports. Strong wind warnings were disseminated to residents between Phú Yên and Bà Rịa–Vũng Tàu provinces by December 2. These areas, as well as the inland provinces of Đắk Lắk, Lâm Đồng, and Bình Phước redirected all focus on the typhoon and the potential for life-threatening flash flooding. Evacuation orders for southern provinces were issued by December 3, with Deputy Prime Minister Nguyễn Sinh Hùng stating, "the evacuation must be completed by Monday morning [December 4]." Threatening an area not frequented by typhoons, many residents did not heed warnings as weather conditions ahead of the storm were calm. Approximately 6,800 people in Ninh Thuận province complied with the evacuation orders; however, officials requested the assistance of the Vietnamese Army to relocate roughly 90,000 people. Following an unpredicted southerly shift in the storm's track towards the Mekong Delta, Hung later urged residents and officials to prepare for the storm, such that "all provinces should prepare so that we do not have another Linda."

Impact

Yap
Early in its duration, Durian produced light winds on Yap in the Caroline Islands, gusting to , as well as light rainfall totaling . Ahead of the storm, the National Weather Service on Guam issued a tropical storm warning for various islands in Yap State.

Philippines

Typhoon Durian affected about 3.5 million people in the Philippines, of whom about 120,000 were left homeless. Durian damaged 588,037 houses, including 228,436 that were destroyed, many of which were made out of wood. Across the country, the storm wrecked 5,685 schools, estimated at US$63.5 million in damage. The Bicol Region accounted for 79% of the damaged schools, affecting around 357,400 children. Damage was estimated at ₱5.45 billion (PHP, US$110 million). As of December 27, 2006, the death toll stood at 734, with 762 missing. The International Disaster Database listed 1,399 deaths in the Philippines related to Durian, making it the second deadliest natural disaster in 2006 after an earthquake in Indonesia.

While crossing the Philippines, Durian dropped  of rainfall at Legazpi, Albay in 24 hours, including an hourly total of . The 24 hour total was the highest in 40 years for a station in the Bicol region. Heavy rainfall caused rivers and irrigation canals to exceed their banks. Many creeks and small streams were flooded in the Bicol region. Gusts were estimated as high as . 

While the typhoon moved through the country, it caused complete power outages in Albay, Sorsogon, Camarines Sur, and Camarines Norte, affecting tens of thousands of residents. Initially, disrupted communications prevented details about the damage in the worst struck areas. The worst of the storm effects were in Albay, Camarines Sur, Catanduanes, Mindoro, and Quezon. On Catanduanes Island, Durian destroyed about half of the houses in the capital city of Virac. The powerful winds of the typhoon blew away houses and uprooted trees, All of the trees in Bacagay were knocked down, affecting the livelihood of half of the residents. Throughout the country, about  of rice fields were destroyed, accounting for 65,481 metric tons of corn; 19,420 metric tons of rice were also damaged. However, the crops were already harvested, so the storm's agriculture effects were minor. The storm also wrecked 1,200 fishing boats, severely affecting the local fishing industry, and killed many livestock.

Mayon Volcano