[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

, banned in all parks, cemeteries, and enclosed workplaces. Retail tobacco stores were not exempted from this city ordinance.
 Goodyear, July 1, 2009, banned in all parks.
 Mesa, July 1, 1996, banned in amphitheaters, stadiums, and all waiting lines (such as the ones present outside movie theaters).

Arkansas
Statewide smoking ban excluding bars and some restaurants. The Arkansas Clean Indoor Air Act of 2006, bans smoking in most enclosed workplaces in Arkansas, exempting private residences, hotel and motel rooms designated as smoking rooms, workplaces with fewer than three employees, retail tobacco stores, designated areas in nursing homes, outdoor areas, workplaces of tobacco manufacturers (and importers and wholesalers), bars and restaurants that do not allow patrons younger than 21, and gaming floors of operations regulated by the Arkansas Racing Commission. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the state law. At the same time, the Arkansas Protection from Secondhand Smoke for Children Act of 2006 went into effect, prohibiting smoking in a motor vehicle carrying a child under age six years old who weighs less than 60 pounds and is in a car seat.
Localities in Arkansas with smoking bans that include all bars and restaurants (3 total):
Fairfield Bay, January 29, 2006, banned in all enclosed workplaces, including bars and restaurants
Helena-West Helena, November 7, 2008, banned in all enclosed workplaces, including bars and restaurants
Wooster, May 26, 2016, banned in all enclosed workplaces, including bars and restaurants
Localities in Arkansas with smoking bans that do not include all bars and restaurants (3 total):
Fayetteville, March 11, 2004, banned in all restaurants, but not bars or other enclosed workplaces
Highfill, July 12, 2003, banned in all enclosed workplaces, including restaurants but exempting bars
Pine Bluff, July 7, 2005, banned in all restaurants, but not bars or other enclosed workplaces

California
Statewide smoking ban: Since January 1, 1995, smoking has been banned in all enclosed workplaces in California, including bars and restaurants (bars were excluded until January 1, 1998); these following areas were exempt until June 9, 2016: meeting and banquet rooms except while food or beverage functions are taking place (including set-up, service, and clean-up activities or when the room is being used for exhibit activities), retail or wholesale tobacco shops and private smokers lounges (i.e. cigar bars), truck cabs/tractors if no nonsmoking employees are present, theatrical production sites if smoking is an integral part of the story, medical research or treatment sites if smoking is integral to the research or treatment being conducted, and patient smoking areas in long-term health care facilities.

Effective January 1, 2004, California bill AB846 bans smoking within  of the entrance or operable window of a public building ("public building" means a building owned and occupied, or leased and occupied, by the state, a county, a city, a city and county, or a California Community College district.) The law also prohibits smoking in state owned vehicles.

Additionally, effective January 1, 2008, smoking in a moving vehicle while in the presence of a minor (18 years or younger) is an infraction; the charge is not serious enough to be pulled over, and only can be cited along with a stricter offense, such as a moving violation or traffic accident.

Local jurisdictions may regulate smoking more strictly than the state. Many California communities have established smoke-free registries for private residential apartment buildings, which range from complexes where smoking is entirely prohibited (whether inside private dwellings or outside) to those where certain sections of dwellings may be designated as smoking dwellings. Most California cities allow landlords to regulate smoking at will.