[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Demographic threat

establish a Palestinian state would leave Israel facing a demographic threat that could undermine its Jewish and democratic nature.

Malaysia
The Malaysian government has been accused of masterminding Project IC to alter the demographic pattern of the East Malaysian state of Sabah.

Northern Ireland

In Northern Ireland, Protestants are more likely to favour continued political union with the United Kingdom, and Catholics are more likely to favour political union with the Republic of Ireland. When Ireland was partitioned in the 1920s and Northern Ireland came into existence, Protestants were roughly 60% of the population, but as a result of higher fertility rates among Catholics, their share of the population has dropped to less than 50% in the 2011 census, while Catholics numbered only slightly fewer than Protestants. There is debate over whether and to what extent the trend will continue and its possible impact on the political situation.

Russia
Russia fears the "demographic threat" posed by the potential for "large-scale Chinese immigration" to its thinly populated far east.  Illegal immigration of Chinese nationals is a special concern. There were also fears of a Muslim-majority Russia eventually coming into fruition (for instance, by Paul A. Goble), though such fears have also been criticized as being unrealistic, irrational, and/or unfounded.

Sweden 
Sweden's main statistics bureau, Statistics Sweden (SCB), does not keep any record of ethnicity, but about 20% of Sweden's population is of foreign background. Some immigrants in Sweden feel that they experience "betweenship" that arises when others ascribe them an identity that they do not hold.

The growing numbers of immigrants has coincided with the rise of and anti-immigration political party, the Sweden Democrats, which believe in a demographic threat, especially by the rise of Islam in Sweden. Since the 1990s, polls show that people in Sweden have gradually become more positive to asylum-seekers.

United States
Some in the United States have expressed concern about the "demographic threat" posed by migrants from Latin America, particularly Mexico, and their descendants. In a similar vein, in 2000, Peter Brimelow of the immigration restrictionist website VDARE set forth an unfounded conspiracy theory that the Democratic Party, with the illogically imagined support of the Republican Party, is importing a new, less white, electorate that is more favorable to the former.

See also
 Demographic trap 
 Fifth column
 Great Replacement
 Natalism
 Political demography
 Revenge of the cradle

References

Bibliography
 Masalha, Nur (2000). Imperial Israel And The Palestinians: The Politics of Expansion. Pluto Press. 
 Shenhav, Yehouda (2006). The Arab Jews: A Postcolonial Reading of Nationalism, Religion, and Ethnicity. Stanford University Press. 
 Pat Buchanan, The Death of the West (2001)

External links
 Ynet: Demographic threat a myth
 Haaretz: Netanyahu's use of the term "demographic bomb"
 'What Counts is the Counting: Statistical Manipulation as a Solution to Israel’s “Demographic Problem”, Middle East Journal, Volume 67, No. 2, Spring 2013 pp. 185–205

Politics of Israel
Israeli–Palestinian conflict
Ethnicity in politics
Cultural assimilation
Demographics
Hispanophobia