[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Watson Kirkconnell

tish Place-Names in Canada, Winnipeg.
 1973 Awake the Courteous Echo: The Themes and Prosody of Comus, Lycidas, and Paradise Regained in World Literature with Translations of the Major Analogues, Toronto.
 1974 Rest, Perturbed Spirit: The Life of Cecil Francis Lloyd, 1884-1938, Windsor, Nova Scotia.

Quotes
 "I disagree profoundly with those who would hack off completely all roots of European culture and then hew the mutilated trunk into conformity with some arbitrary nationalistic pattern; I believe rather that the perpetration of the finest elements of Old World culture will incalculably enrich the life of the New World. This is the cornerstone of my venture. North Americans of Welsh or Scottish extraction are not worse but better citizens when they drink from the springs of their ancestral literatures. Shall we not likewise seek to cherish the magnificent literatures which are the heritage of nearly every European stock?"
 "Certain basic facts emerge, however, from any candid study of Freemasonry. It is deeply religious and all of its sessions are opened and closed with prayer, but it is not Christian. The Holy Bible has its invariable place on the altar of Masonry in the English-speaking world, but its basic texts are all from the Old Testament and not from the New. The Jew can accept its teachings as readily as the Christian. The Incarnation and Atonement are unknown to it. Nothing in Masonry is repugnant to Christianity but to the Christian it cannot take the place of his own religious faith nor does it aspire to do so. In my forty-seven years of Freemasonry, I have never heard any hostility towards Roman Catholic or Jew expressed in any Masonic Lodge. On the other hand, I have never met a Catholic Mason, although Catholics are not excluded by statute and Cardinal Cushing has recently been fraternizing with the Masons of Connecticut."

References

Further reading
 
 
Meister, Daniel R (10 February 2020). "'Anglo-Canadian Futurities': Watson Kirkconnell, scientific racism, and cultural pluralism in interwar Canada". Settler Colonial Studies. 10 (2): 234–56. doi:10.1080/2201473X.2020.1726148. S2CID 213470837.
Meister, Daniel (16 December 2013). "Watson Kirkconnell". The Canadian Encyclopedia (online ed.). Historica Canada.
Woodsworth, Judith (April 2000). "Watson Kirkconnell and the "Undoing of Babel": a Little-Known Case in Canadian Translation History" (PDF). Meta. 45 (1): 13–28. doi:10.7202/004618ar – via Érudit.
 Archives of Watson Kirkconnell (Watson Kirkconnell fonds, R1847) are held at Library and Archives Canada. Fonds consists of three drafts of the translation from Ukrainian of The Poetical Works of Taras Shevchenko.

External links
 
 
 
 János Arany: Bards of Wales - translated by Watson Kirkconnell
 They’ve Walled up Every Window ... - One of Tibor Tollas's poems in English, translated by Watson Kirkconnell

1895 births
1977 deaths
20th-century Baptists
20th-century Canadian poets
20th-century Canadian translators
Antisemitism in Canada
Calvinist and Reformed poets
Canadian anti-communists
Canadian anti-fascists
Canadian Baptists
Canadian eugenicists
Canadian Freemasons
Canadian people of German descent
Canadian people of Scottish descent
Canadian people of Spanish descent
Canadian people of Welsh descent
Canadian male poets
Canadian university and college chief executives
Christian poets
Cold War history of Canada
Fellows of the Royal Society of Canada
Formalist poets
Freemasonry-related controversies
Holocaust denial in Canada
Hungarian–English translators
Internments in Canada
Irish–English translators
Knights of the Order of Polonia Restituta
Officers of the Order of Canada
Police informants
Polish–English translators
Translators from Old East Slavic
Translators from Scottish Gaelic
Translators of The Tale of Igor's Campaign
Translators from Russian
Ukrainian–English translators