[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Defensive realism

Defensive neorealism is a structural theory in international relations that is derived from the school of neorealism. The theory finds its foundation in the political scientist Kenneth Waltz's Theory of International Politics in which Waltz argues that the anarchical structure of the international system encourages states to maintain moderate and reserved policies to attain national security.  In contrast, offensive realism assumes that states seek to maximize their power and influence to achieve security through domination and hegemony.  Defensive neorealism asserts that aggressive expansion as promoted by offensive neorealists upsets the tendency of states to conform to the balance of power theory, thereby decreasing the primary objective of the state, which they argue to be the ensuring of its security. Defensive realism denies neither the reality of interstate conflict or that incentives for state expansion exist, but it contends that those incentives are sporadic, rather than endemic. Defensive neorealism points towards "structural modifiers," such as the security dilemma and geography, and elite beliefs and perceptions to explain the outbreak of conflict.

Theoretical origins
Defensive neorealism is a structural theory that is part of structural realism, also known as neorealism, which is a subset of the realist school of thought in International Relations theory.  Neorealism therefore works from realism's five base theoretical assumptions as outlined by offensive neorealist scholar John J. Mearsheimer in "The False Promise of International Institutions".  These assumptions are:

 The international system is anarchic.
 States inherently possess some offensive military capability, which gives them the ability to hurt and possibly destroy each other.
 States can never be certain about the intentions of other states.
 The basic motive driving states is survival.
 States think strategically about how to survive in the international system.

These five assumptions drive neorealism's belief that state survival is attained through "self-help".  However, neorealism departs from classical realism's other main assumption that it is the flaws and complexities of human nature that drive the international system.  Instead, neorealists assert that the anarchy inherent to the structure of the international system is the driving force of international politics.  It is on these key neorealist assumptions that defensive and offensive neorealists base their competing understandings of state behavioural patterns.

Main tenets

Defensive neorealism
As Kenneth Waltz asserted in his seminal defensive neorealist text Theory of International Politics, defensive neorealists argue that the anarchic nature of the international system encourages states to undertake defensive and moderate policies. They argue that states are not intrinsically aggressive and that "the first concern of states is not to maximize power but to maintain their position in the system". This is the crucial point of departure from offensive neorealism, which instead argues that anarchy encourages states to increase state power vigorously, as "the world is condemned to perpetual great power competition".

Defensive neorealists identify a number of problems regarding offensive neorealism's support of aggressive expansion of power. Building on Waltz's balance of power theory and the assumption that "balancing is more common than bandwagoning", defensive neorealists assert that states which strive to attain hegemony in the international system will be counterbalanced by other states seeking to maintain the status quo. While offensive realists believe states inherently desire either global hegemony or local hegemony, defensive neorealists argue that states are socialised and aware of historical precedent, which defensive neorealists assert, generally displays state aggression and expansion to fulfil the aim of hegemony as attracting resistance from other states. Aggression is therefore argued to be self-defeating in achieving the aim of security, which defensive neorealists posit to be the state's primary objective. Indeed, Jack Snyder asserts, "international anarchy punishes aggression; it does not reward it".