[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# George Washington Martin II

ith Dr Duke, including Assistant District Attorney Francis A. Madden and Assistant District Attorney William F. Guinness.

Amen also had Martin indicted on bribery charges. The case against Martin proceeded to trial but the jury found no evidence to sustain the bribery charges and he was exonerated.

In July 1939 the New York state Governor Herbert H. Lehman received formal complaints from both the New York City Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia and from Amen concerning the conduct of Judge Martin. Governor Lehman then ordered that a formal petition of impeachment be presented to the New York state senate. Under the provisions of Section 6, Article 9 of the New York state constitution the senate was empowered to remove a judicial officer after a two-thirds vote majority is obtained. This was the first time in seventy years that a request for the impeachment of a judicial officer had arisen in the history of New York.

The charges laid against Martin included that he had corruptly used his office to receive gifts of money from attorneys who appeared in cases before him, and that he had serious defects of character rendering him unfit to serve on the bench. The hearings proceeded before the state senate between September and November 1939. In the course of the proceedings Martin's business affairs and bad debts were examined for evidence of corruption. His personal relationships with court officers and lawyers who had been found guilty of bribery were also examined, as was his friendship with the notorious underworld "slot machine king" Leo P. Byk.

On November 16, 1939, the senate voted 28 to 19 to retain Judge Martin on the bench thus clearing him of the charges for impeachment. The entire proceedings of the senate hearings, together with the written evidences presented against Martin, amounted to over 1,700 pages, which were subsequently bound in book form in 1959 and deposited on file in the law library of Yale University.

In April 1940 Martin resumed his position on the bench until his term expired in 1941. By that time the Democrats had evidently come to regard Martin as a political liability, and so they dropped Martin from their county election ticket in August 1941.

Death
Martin then resumed his private law practice until his death in 1948. He was survived by his wife and six children, and was buried in Southampton Cemetery on Long Island.

References

Official records

 "Gilbert De Revere, Mary A. De Revere, John De Revere, George W. Martin and Emma F. Martin", in the Ninth Census of the United States 1870, Kings County, New York, 21st Ward, Page no. 85, records available to subscribers at ancestry.com
 "Emma F. Martin, George W. Martin, Audrey Martin" in the Thirteenth Census of the United States 1910, Kings County, New York, 23rd Ward, Enumeration District 618, Sheet 7B, records available to subscribers at ancestry.com
 "James McIntyre, Emma McIntyre, Maud McIntyre [adopted daughter]" in the Thirteenth Census of the United States 1910, Kings County, New York, 32 Ward, Enumeration District 1000, Sheet 9B, records available to subscribers at ancestry.com
 "George W. Martin, Maud Martin, Audrey Martin, James Martin, Peggy Martin, Jean Martin and Betty Martin" in the Fourteenth Census of the United States 1920, Kings County, New York, Enumeration District 292, Sheet 3A, records available to subscribers at ancestry.com
 "George Martin, Maud Martin, James Martin, Peggy Martin, Jean Martin, Betsy Martin, George Martin, Walter Martin and Audrey Oberry" in the Fifteenth Census of the United States 1930, Kings County, New York, Enumeration District 24-274, Sheet 10A, records available to subscribers at ancestry.com
 "Joseph Ainsworth and Annie Ainsworth" in the Twelfth Census of the United States 1900, Cook County, Chicago, Illinois, Ward 18, Enumeration District 579, Sheet 7B, records available to subscribers at ancestry.com
 "John F. Oberry", in the Fourteenth Census of the United States 1920, Kings County, New York, Enumeration District 293, Sheet 7A, records available to subscribers at ancestry.com
 "John Francis Oberry", U.S. World War II Army Enlistment Records, 1938–1946, records available to subscribers at ancestry.com

Further reading