[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# After Doomsday

cleanse it before colonizing with their own biota.  Ramri leaves for his home planet, determined to purge the culture that committed the crime, but aware that his own world might well be destroyed in the process.  Carl Donnan and Sigrid Holmen can only look at each other and say "What have we done?"

Characters 
Carl Donnan
Ramri, a  bird-descended biped with brilliant blue feathers.  He is a product of the high-technology Tantha culture who believe in trade with other cultures.  As a Monwaingi representative on Earth, he is enraptured by human culture and its arts.  He is particularly taken by human music, especially Beethoven.  Despite his size and a somewhat delicate appearance, he is a willing fighter, and wields talons on his clawed feet.
Arnold Goldspring, the Detector Officer on the USS Benjamin Franklin.  A mathematician, he is able to re-invent the "paragravitic standing wave" technology behind interstellar travel to create new and revolutionary weapons.
Sigrid Holmen,  the Navigation Officer on the Europa. Tall, blonde, and Swedish, she is a stoic figure who has to control her grief over the loss of her beloved country, its forests, waters and people, and keep going forward in the hope that humanity might continue.
Alexandra Vukovic, the Gunnery Officer on the Europa and Sigrid's best friend.  She is a Serb and a graduate of "the Soviet incursion of 1995".  This event turned her into a guerilla, a staunch friend, and a habitual rebel.
Hlott Luurs, a Draga or warlord of the Vorlak, a race of bipeds of about the same size as humans, but resembling otters in the head shape and in the possession of a coat of fur. Hlott Luurs is the head of the Draga Council by virtue of support from a coalition of other Draga.  Like the other Draga he is pugnacious, proud, quick to take offense, but bound by a code of honor, which Donnan uses to his advantage.
Tarkamat of Kandemir, the military leader for the entire campaign against the Vorlak-led forces.  After Donnan and his raiders are captured, he personally interrogates Donnan in his luxurious quarters.  Like all Kandemirians, Tarkamat is well over 2 meters tall, handsome by human standards,  a broad-shouldered and narrow-waisted biped with a ruff of hair framing the face.  His officers and other soldiers are also members of his clan, a typical Kandmirian arrangement.

External links
 

1962 American novels
1962 science fiction novels
Novels by Poul Anderson
American science fiction novels
American post-apocalyptic novels
Works originally published in Galaxy Science Fiction
Novels first published in serial form
Ballantine Books books