[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Deddington Castle

277 contemporaries described it as "an old demolished castle". In 1281, Robert of Aston and a group of men were able to break down the doors to the castle and enter it. The castle was considered to be "weak" in a report of 1310 and no further repairs were carried out on the property after this time.

In 1312, the royal favourite Piers Gaveston may have been captured at Deddington Castle. Gaveston was a close friend of Edward II but he had many enemies among the major barons, and had surrendered to them on the promise that he would be unharmed. He was taken south by Aymer de Valence, the Earl of Pembroke, who imprisoned Gaveston at Deddington on 9 June while he left to visit his wife. Gaveston is often stated to have been kept in Deddington Castle, although he may have alternatively been lodged in the rectory house in the village. Guy de Beauchamp, the Earl of Warwick, had a particular dislike of Gaveston and the next morning took the opportunity to seize him and take him back to Warwick Castle, where Gaveston was subsequently tried and killed by his enemies.

During the 14th century the interior of the castle continued to be inhabited, but in a manner that archaeologist Richard Ivens likens to "squatting": the upper levels of the tower were abandoned and wood burnt along the inside of the walls in a crude fireplace. In 1364, the Canons of Windsor bought the castle, park and former fishponds from Thomas de Dive; the Canons rented the farmlands out, but retained the right to operate and profit from the castle's manorial court. The tower was demolished around this time, possibly linked to the sale of stonework from the castle walls in 1377 to the Canons of Bicester. By the 16th century, the visiting antiquarian John Leland only noted that "there hath bene a castle at Dadintone".

The village of Deddington was extensively involved in the English Civil War between 1641 and 1645, owing to its location on the route between Banbury and Oxford. The late 19th-century historian James Mackenzie recorded that the castle was used as a temporary fortress by both Royalist and Parliamentary forces during the conflict and that a Royalist garrison was besieged there by Parliamentary troops in 1644. During the 17th and 18th centuries, the castle site was used for grazing animals and timber farming.

19th–21st centuries

From the 19th century, the castle site was used as club by the local gentry for recreation, including cricket and archery. A small lodge was built at the entrance to house a professional coach, and a "pavilion building" – a combination of a ballroom and a cafe – was built within the grounds. In 1886, the ownership of the site passed from the Canons of Windsor to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners of the Church of England. The pavilion was demolished at the start of the 20th century. Stonework continued to be taken from the remains of the castle up until the 1940s, for use in local buildings.

From 1945 until 1981 the Castle was home to Deddington and District Rifle and Revolver Club.

In 1947 the castle site was sold by the Commissioners to Deddington's parish council. The parish council intended to build tennis courts in the inner bailey of the castle, but when work began, medieval pottery and roof tiles were unearthed by the builders. Construction work was halted and the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford sponsored an archaeological investigation by Edward Jope and Richard Threlfall that continued until 1953. The plans for the tennis courts were dropped in light of the findings, and the site was instead used as a park. A further phase of archaeological investigation of the castle was carried out between 1977 and 1979, sponsored by the Queen's University Belfast and led by Richard Ivens.

In the 21st century, only the earthworks of the castle remain. The western bailey is managed by the parish council and the inner bailey by English Heritage, while the eastern bailey remains under cultivation. The site is protected under UK law as a scheduled monument.

References

Bibliography

External links

English Heritage website
Friends of the Castle Grounds homepage
Aerial views at Castlesfortsbattles

Castles in Oxfordshire
English Heritage sites in Oxfordshire
Scheduled monuments in Oxfordshire