[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chibli Mallat

tect' of Lahoud's demise,  Mallat joined with the leadership of the March 14 coalition to develop his constitutional, nonviolent plan to replace Lahoud by a freely elected president. With the political deadlock that ensued, Mallat predicted a new bout of 'immense violence' descending on the country.

When the war against Israel was triggered by Hizbullah on 12 July 2006, Mallat was forced to interrupt his campaign on the ground. He denounced the attack of Hizbullah and debated its foreign affairs representative on television in the midst of the bombardments. Soon after the ceasefire, which he had helped engineer through an active collaboration with the Lebanese government's acting foreign minister, he accepted an offer by Princeton University and left for the US with his family. At Princeton, he completed six books, including two on the campaign.

In 2023, the Lebanese leader Walid Jumblat put his name repeatedly out for the presidency of Lebanon, arguing his appeal to the youth, his competence in law and economics, and his legal achievements.

Middle East Nonviolent Revolution
Mallat remains actively engaged for Middle East democracy as scholar and activist. In pursuit of radical nonviolent change, he founded in 2009 Right to Nonviolence, an international NGO that advocates and supports nonviolence, constitutional reform and judicial accountability. Right to Nonviolence has been active in the Arab Spring, which Mallat prefers to call the 'Middle East Nonviolent Revolution' to englobe Israel and Iran. As constitutional expert, he assisted with the early constitutional amendments in Egypt after the removal of Husni Mubarak.
In February 2011, he was asked by the Bahraini leadership and opposition, and the US State Department, to assist in efforts to jumpstart the political process by producing a 'Constitutional Options' paper. Amidst an increase of tension on the street, the hardliners in government had decided to go for an all out repression of the Pearl Revolution. The trip to Manama to restart the dialogue was interrupted on 13 March 2011 as he was boarding the plane. He visited Libya and Yemen in the summer of 2013 and assisted the respective UN special envoys, Tarek Mitri and Jamal Benomar, on constitutional and accountability matters.

Over the years, Mallat developed a theory of nonviolence combined with his work as a lawyer seeking justice for the most heinous political crimes known as crimes against humanity. In addition to the case against Sharon, which showed for the first time to an Arab and international audience that nonviolence may be a far more effective tool than war, he helped expand the field of judicial accountability as an important avenue for victims to stand up against dictators and bring them to account. With international action against Saddam Hussein, Muammar Gaddafi, Omar Bashir yielding tangible albeit uneven results, the scene was set for the trial of Tunisian president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, Egyptian president Husni Mubarak, and the falling dictators of the Middle East Revolution. He denounced the extrajudicial execution of Gaddafi, and the violent bent of the Libyan Revolution. With the setbacks of the revolution across the region, Mallat argued for the continued advocacy of nonviolence as the philosophy of historical change by "keeping the flame alive".

He developed a more systematic theory of nonviolence as the anima of historical change in Philosophy of Nonviolence, a book published in 2015. He has been active in the Lebanese Revolution which started in November 2019, in particular through Rally for the Revolution, known by its Arabic acronym as TMT.

Writings
Mallat is the author or editor of some forty books, and has published dozens of scholarly articles and book chapters. He has been a frequent contributor to Arabic, French and English dailies and served as op-ed consultant and legal editor for The Daily Star (Beirut) in 1996-1998 and in 2009-2010. He was a regular columnist in al-Nahar (Beirut), al-Hayat (London), The Daily Star (Beirut), Al-Ahram (Cairo), L'Orient-Le Jour (Beirut), and a guest columnist in the New York Timess blog Line of Fire during the Hizbullah-Israel war in July–August 2006. He views himself as the eclectic disciple of a number of twentieth century 'maverick thinkers'. Mallat's worldview draws on the encyclopaedic, articulate understanding of society by French banker and sociologist Robert Fossaert; the conceptualisation of the courts' role in society in the works of John Hart Ely and the American constitutional tradition, the progressive humanism of Lebanese leader Kamal Jumblat; the aggiornamento of the Islamic legal tradition by the Iraqi Mohammad Baqir al-Sadr; and Gilles Deleuze's creative, multi-layered philosophy.