[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# December 1979

was reached between the British Government and representatives of the Patriotic Front, an alliance of anti-government rebel groups.
Jack Lynch announced his resignation as Prime Minister of the Republic of Ireland.
Died: Sonia Delaunay, 94, French design artist and co-founder of the Orphism movement

December 6, 1979 (Thursday)
Choi Kyu-hah was overwhelmingly approved as President of South Korea by a vote of 2,465 to 84 in a special electoral college assembled in Seoul to name a successor to Park Chung Hee, who had been assassinated on October 26. Choi, a former prime minister, had been serving as acting president until an election could be held.
At least 14 people were killed and 60 others injured in Spain when an unmanned train crashed into a passenger train that had been halted near Les Franqueses del Vallès. Officials of the state-owned company Renfe Operadora had switched off the electrical power to prevent the passenger train from getting closer, while trying to stop the crewless train that had rolled out of a station and down a steep grade, and "efforts to stop the runaway train by blocking the line or switching it to a siding failed."
Sixteen people were killed and 10 injured in Argentina in an early morning fire at the Rilke II nightclub in Rosario.
The first elections for the House of Assembly of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines since the Caribbean nation's independence took place, as the Saint Vincent Labour Party of Prime Minister Milton Cato won 11 of 13 seats. The next day, Cato declared a state of emergency after a group of armed rebels temporarily seized the airport and the police station on one of the Grenadines, Union Island.
The world premiere of Star Trek: The Motion Picture was held at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., before going into nationwide release in the U.S. and Canada the next day. New York Times critic Vincent Canby commented that the title was superfluous because "I doubt anyone who sees it could possibly confuse this film with those shards of an earlier, simpler, cheaper television era."
Born: Stephenie LaGrossa, American reality show contestant, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

December 7, 1979 (Friday)
South Korea's President Choi Kyu-hah revoked "Presidential Emergency Decree Number 9", which had been in place since 1974 when it was implemented by then-president Park Chung Hee. Later in the day, the South Korean government released 68 dissidents who had been imprisoned for violating the decree against criticism of the Park government. Foremost among the dissidents released was Kim Dae-jung, who would later become President of South Korea in 1998.
The Satcom III communications satellite became useless, 12 hours after its launch the night before, when an attempt to place it into a permanent geosynchronous orbit failed. At 1:57 p.m. Eastern time (1857 UTC), technicians at the RCA Corporation sent the command to fire a small engine to place the $20,000,000 Satcom III to a point  above the Pacific Ocean, then lost communication with the craft. With capacity for 24 relay channels, Satcom III was set to receive and forward transmissions from various companies to cable service providers.
Born:
Sara Bareilles, American singer-songwriter; in Eureka, California
Eric Bauza, Canadian voice actor; in Scarborough, Ontario
Jennifer Carpenter, American TV actress; in Louisville, Kentucky
Died:
Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin, 79, British-born American astronomer known for her discovery of the composition of stars
Shahriar Shafiq, 34, Iranian prince and former Iranian Navy captain, was shot and killed in Paris while walking along the Rue de la Villa Dupont. Shafiq, a nephew of the recently deposed Shah of Iran and son of the Shah's twin sister, Princess Ashraf, was returning home from grocery shopping when a gunman walked up to him and fired two 9mm bullets into his head. The Islamic Revolutionary Tribunal, which had sentenced Shafiq to death in absentia, took responsibility for the assassination.

December 8, 1979 (Saturday)
The government of Indonesia released 2,045 prisoners who had been detained since an unsuccessful coup d'état attempt in 1965 against the regime of President Sukarno.  Another 61 political prisoners, described as by the Indonesian government as "hard core Communists", were held for trial to take place in 1980.
The U.S. state of Louisiana elected their first Republican governor in more than a century, as U.S. Representative David C. Treen defeated Democrat Louis Lambert in a runoff election.  At the time, registered Democratic Party voters outnumbered registered Republicans by a ratio of 22 to 1, but Lambert's opponents in the Democratic primary had endorsed Treen in the runoff election.
Died: Robert Hocq, 62, French business executive who purchased and revived the ailing Cartier jewelry firm, was killed while crossing the street outside of his office in Paris.