[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Anne of York (daughter of Edward IV)

same time, not all titles were returned: Thomas' father received back the title of Earl of Surrey but the title and honours of Duke of Norfolk, which he was supposed to inherit after the death of his father at Bosworth, were granted to him only in 1514. Thomas was older than Anne by about two years.

The queen took into account the opinion of her sister and considered that the Howard family were noble enough to qualify for a high marriage, and therefore on 4 February 1495 (according to other sources in 1494) the wedding of Anne and Thomas Howard was celebrated. The wedding took place in Westminster Abbey, and the marriage celebrations took place in the Palace of Placentia. The royal couple attended the wedding, and the king also attended a festive mass, but the dowry of 10,000 marks, assigned to Anne by her father, wasn't receive by the newlyweds. By order of the queen, the couple were assigned annuity payments in the amount of £120 per year, which were to be carried out throughout Anne's life or until the death of her mother-in-law: this amount included the maintenance of Anne herself, as well as her servants and seven horses. This pension was appointed, among other things, because the queen did not want to leave Anne dependent on her husband, who, due to circumstances, could not provide the princess with a comfortable existence. Since the groom's father received only part of the family estate and in this part there was no residence suitable for a woman of royal blood, the newlyweds received the right to use the estates located in the possessions of the Duke of York and the Marquess of Dorset, Anne's nephew and half-brother, respectively. In return, the queen demanded that in the event of the death of the Earl of Surrey or his wife, a wealthy heiress, Anne's interests should be taken into account on an equal basis with the interests of her husband. The king allocated for Anne another 26£ per year from the crown lands.

After the wedding, Anne left the court and visited her sister very rarely. One of the reasons for this could be her poor health—both physical and mental. Little is known about the life of the princess during this period. Queen Elizabeth's court documents report that in 1502–1503 she paid for seven yards of green silk from Bruges for Anne's dress, costing 2 shillings 8 pences a yard. In addition, in 1502, the queen added 10 marks (6 pounds 13 shillings 4 pences) to her sister's annual pocket expenses, as well as £120 to Thomas Howard, which he had to spend on his wife's food. In 1503, the queen died and the attitude towards Anne at the court changed. She attended the funeral of Queen Elizabeth, but not as a mourner, but as a simple spectator; Anne's grief at the loss of her sister was so great that she could not attend the entire funeral ceremony.

Anne's marriage to Thomas Howard was not a happy one. Thomas had a relationship with Anne's lady-in-waiting Bess Holland, and all of their children predeceased them. The exact number and names of children born to Anne are unknown. Mary Anne Everett Green writes that the records of the Howard house indicate four children, of which only one child, a son named Thomas, lived long enough to be christened. Alison Weir dates Thomas's birth to about 1496 and death to 1508; Everett Green writes that the exact date of death is indicated on the boy's grave: 4 August 1508. James Panton reports that in addition to Thomas, Anne had two sons who died in infancy and a stillborn child, but Weir among the four children of Anne, in addition to Thomas, mentioned a son and two daughters—all three died before it became possible to christen them. Anne's son was buried at Lambeth in the Howard family crypt, where his grandfather's remains were later transferred.

Later life and legacy
Only two records of the last years of Anne's life have survived. On 23 March 1510, her nephew King Henry VIII granted his aunt and her spouse a property with a garden in Stephenheath; on 22 November the king (in compensation for the lands claimed in right of her great-grandmother Anne de Mortimer, wife of Richard of Conisburgh, 3rd Earl of Cambridge) gave Anne and her possible heirs extensive possessions, including the Castle and Manor of Wingfield and many other properties in Norfolk, Suffolk, York, Lincoln and Oxford.

The exact date of Anne's death is unknown. Alison Weir writes that the princess died after 22 or 23 November 1511, but before 1513; James Panton gives 23 November 1511 as an approximate date. Mary Ann Everett Green writes that Anne is no longer mentioned in the act of transferring some property to the Howard family, considered in Parliament in February 1512; in addition, the possibility of Thomas Howard's marriage to Lady Elizabeth Stafford was discussed at the same time. All this indicates that by February 1512, Anne was undoubtedly dead.