[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# American Miners' Association

ers and demonstrated how a strong organization would support them.

“Step by step, the longest march
Can be won, can be won; 
Single stones will form an arch, 
One by one, one by one, 
Andy by union, what we will
Can be all accomplished still. 
Drops of water turn a mill--
Singly none, singly none.”

In the preamble of the constitution, Daniel Weaver aggressively lays out the problems that miners faced on a daily basis. These included dangers from explosions and insecure roofs, firedamp's and noxious gases, poor ventilation, and other accidents that were caused by the poor management of their employers, whose only object was to increase their capital with no remorse to the loss of life, limbs, or health of their employees.
	
The constitution also laid out the formation of the union, in which practicing miners were formed into Lodges, who were formed into Districts, and supervised by the General Board who also represented the association in the corporate capacity.  
	
The General Board consisted of one president, one vice-president, one treasurer, and one delegate who were elected from each lodge in the association. The officers of the General Board were elected by delegates and held their positions for two years. They were required to meet once a year, unless a special meeting was called. Information from the meetings were reported and printed through the Weekly Miner, a publication that was directed and edited by John Hinchcliffe, the second president of the American Miners’ Association. The Weekly Miner was essential in keeping the union up to date in current events.   
	
The constitution also provided the duties of each executive officer. The president was responsible for presiding over all the meetings in the board and appointed all necessary committees. He was subjected to the approval of the delegates in session and received applications for admission of new Lodges into the association.  The vice-president was responsible in performing the duties of the president if absent. The financial secretary was responsible for receiving the money and drafts that were paid to the General Board and record all financial affairs. He is then responsible to turn in all the money to the treasurer at the end of each General Board meeting or before the expiration of every three months. The corresponding secretary was responsible for recording everything in meetings, communicating with the press and distant members of officers in the association, and received post office orders, communications, parcels, papers or periodicals.  Finally, the treasurer was responsible for receiving all money and credit that belong or pertained to the General Board.

Along with the government and powers of the General Board, the constitution also provided general laws that members were to follow. These were various and included procedures that kept the officers from corruption, membership fees and monthly dues, penalties for failure to pay, and punishment for acting uncivil, failing to make the meetings, or disobeying the General Laws or By-Laws that were provided.

Growth in the face of public scrutiny

The American Miners’ Association was not long confined within the Belleville Tract and Missouri. It made rapid strides eastward to form the districts of Braidwood, Illinois, and La Salle, Illinois. In March 1863, the Tuscarawas Valley in Ohio formed its own district under the name Massillon Miners’ Association. Unlike the American Miners’ Association, Massillon Miners’ Association provided regulation of work in mines and careful government of the association in the constitution. Along with other branches that were formed during its brief existence, the districts were all members of the branch of the Belleville headquarters.

Civil War

When the Civil War was about to break out in 1861, labor workers and leaders were well aware of the advantages it might produce to spread a national union. When millions of workingmen were pulled from their occupation, either from farms, workshops, mines, and other industrial professions, labor in these fields were scarce. With the lack of labor and an unparalleled demand coal, which was in response to due to the creation of war industries that manufactured firearms, ammunition, naval vessels, armaments, etc., the need for experience workers was drastic.  Because the demand for experienced miners far exceeded the supply of coal, wages in mines rose to three or four times its former value. When word of these high wages and need for experienced miners reached the ear of British workers in England, thousands emigrated to the United States and took advantage of the situation by enjoying high wages and bargaining rights.

Public scrutiny