[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1923 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1923 in New Zealand.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
 Head of State  – George V
 Governor-General – John Jellicoe, Viscount Jellicoe

Government
The 21st New Zealand Parliament begins. The Reform Party governs as a minority with the support of independents.

Speaker of the House – Charles Statham (Independent)
Prime Minister – William Massey
Minister of Finance – William Massey
Minister of External Affairs – Ernest Lee until 13 January, then Francis Bell from 7 June

Parliamentary opposition
Leader of the Opposition – Thomas Wilford (Liberal Party)

Judiciary
 Chief Justice – Sir Robert Stout

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – James Gunson
Mayor of Wellington – Robert Wright
Mayor of Christchurch – Henry Thacker, succeeded by James Flesher
Mayor of Dunedin – James Douglas, succeeded by Harold Tapley

Events 
 28 March – The Tauranga by-election is won by Charles Edward MacMillan (Reform Party)
 March – The inflation rate in New Zealand reaches its lowest recorded value, −15.3 per cent
 1 May – The Oamaru by-election is won by John MacPherson (Liberal Party)
 14 June − The New Zealand Permanent Air Force, the forerunner of the Royal New Zealand Air Force, is established
 6 July – The Ongarue railway disaster results in the deaths of 17 passengers when the overnight Auckland-Wellington Express runs into a landslip at Ongarue near Taumarunui
 4 August – Opening of the Otira Tunnel on the Midland Line
 15 December – The British and Intercolonial Exhibition opens in Hokitika

Undated
 New Zealand gains the right to conduct its own trade negotiations independently of Britain
 The Ross Dependency is claimed by Britain and placed under New Zealand administration
 The Royal Forest and Bird Protection Society of New Zealand is formed
 The Royal Navy battlecruiser HMS New Zealand, funded by the New Zealand government as a gift to Britain before World War I, is broken up for scrap

Arts and literature

See 1923 in art, 1923 in literature, :Category:1923 books

Music

Production of the musical "Tutankhamen" by L.P.Leary at His Majesty's Theatre in Auckland. Music by Eric Waters.

See: 1923 in music

Radio

A set of Broadcasting regulations are issued under the Post And Telegraph Act 1920. Under the new regulations the country is divided into four numerical transmission regions. The regulations also stipulate that the owner of a receiving set is to pay an annual licence of five shillings while permission to transmit costs two pounds.

See: Public broadcasting in New Zealand

Film
 The Romance of Sleepy Hollow
See:  1923 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:1923 films

Sport

Chess
 The 32nd National Chess Championship is held in Christchurch, and is won by John Boyd Dunlop of Oamaru (his third title)

Cricket
 Plunket Shield

Football
 The inaugural competition for the Chatham Cup is won by Seacliff AFC (Otago)
 The New Zealand team tours Australia, playing 16 matches:
 24 May, at Granville – lose 1–3 vs Granville
 26 May, at Sydney – draw 2–2 vs New South Wales
 29 May, at Newcastle – lose 0–2 vs Newcastle
 2 June, at Ipswich – win 4–2 vs Ipswich / West Moreton
 4 June, at Brisbane – win 3–1 vs Queensland
 6 June, at Nambour – win 2–0 vs North Coast
 9 June, at Brisbane – lose 1–2 vs Australia
 13 June, at Cessnock – lose 1–2 vs South Maitland
 16 June, at Sydney – win 3–2 vs Australia
 20 June, at Sydney – win 3–4 vs Metropolis
 23 June, at Sydney – win 3–1 vs Granville
 25 June, at Sydney – draw 1–1 vs New South Wales
 30 June, at Newcastle – win 4–1 vs Australia
 3 July, at Weston – lose 1–4 vs South Maitland
 7 July, at Wollongong – lose 0–2 vs South Coast
 11 July, at Lithgow – win 4–0 vs Western Districts
 Provincial league champions:
 Auckland – North Shore AFC (Devonport)
 Canterbury – Sunnyside
 Hawke's Bay – Whakatu
 Nelson – Athletic
 Otago – HSOB
 South Canterbury – Albion Rovers
 Southland – Nightcaps
 Taranaki – Hawera
 Wanganui – Eastown Workshops
 Wellington – Waterside

Golf
 The 10th New Zealand Open championship is won by A. Brooks.
 The 27th National Amateur Championships are held in Wanganui:
 Men – J. Goss (Wanganui)
 Women – E. Vigor Brown (Napier)

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup – Great Hope
 Auckland Trotting Cup – Blue Mountain King

Thoroughbred racing
 New Zealand Cup – Rouen
 Auckland Cup – Te Kara / Muraahi (dead heat)
 Wellington Cup – Rapine
 New Zealand Derby – Black Ronald
 ARC Great Northern Derby – Enthusiasm

Lawn bowls
The national outdoor lawn bowls championships are held in Auckland.
 Men's singles champion – M. Walker (Ponsonby Bowling Club)
 Men's pair champions – W. McCallum, T. Edwards (skip) (Temuka Bowling Club)
 Men's fours champions – R.S. Somervell, J.F. Hosking, V.P. Casey, A. Parsons (skip) (Ponsonby Bowling Club)