[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Firearms regulation in South Africa

In South Africa, the Firearms Control Act 60 of 2000 regulates the possession of firearms by civilians. Possession of a firearm is conditional on a competency test and several other factors, including background checking of the applicant, inspection of an owner's premises, and licensing of the weapon by the police introduced in July 2004. In 2010, the process was undergoing review, as the police were not able to timely process either competency certification, new licences or renewal of existing licences. Minimum waiting period used to exceed two years from date of application. The Central Firearms Registry implemented a turnaround strategy that has significantly improved the processing period of new licences. The maximum time allowed to process a licence application is now 90 days.

Current law

In South Africa, citizens or permanent residents (over the age of 21 years generally, but if need can be shown then technically no age limit applies) who wish to own firearms are required to obtain a licence per individual firearm, and may possess a maximum amount of only four firearms, and a maximum of 200 rounds of ammunition per license. Should the individual acquire 'dedicated status' conferred by registered shooting club, the individual can theoretically license an unlimited amount of firearms and ammunition limits also then fall away.

Prohibited firearms

Prohibited firearms are:
Any fully automatic firearm;
any gun, cannon, recoilless gun, mortar, light mortar or launcher manufactured to fire a rocket, grenade, self-propelled grenade, bomb or explosive device;
any frame, body or barrel of such a fully automatic firearm, gun, cannon, recoilless gun, mortar, light mortar or launcher;
any projectile or rocket manufactured to be discharged from a cannon, recoilless gun or mortar, or rocket launcher;
any imitation of any device contemplated in paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d);
any firearm—
the mechanism of which has been altered so as to enable the discharging of more than one shot with a single depression of the trigger;
the caliber of which has been altered without the written permission of the Registrar;
the barrel length of which has been altered without the written permission of the Registrar;

Semi-automatic rifles and shotguns

Semi-automatic firearms are not prohibited under law. However, semi-automatic long guns are only permitted with a business licence, restricted firearms licence for self-defence, and dedicated hunting and shooting licences. There is no official magazine capacity restriction for semi-automatic rifles.

Handguns

Handguns of all firing actions (except fully automatic) are legal under all licences. There is no magazine capacity restriction for handguns.

Carrying of firearms in public

Carrying legally owned firearms in South Africa is legal under all licence types and requires no additional permit. No person may carry a firearm in a public place unless the firearm is carried:

 in the case of a handgun—
 in a holster or similar holder designed, manufactured or adapted for the carrying of a handgun and attached to his or her person; or
 in a rucksack or similar holder; or
 in the case of any other firearm, in a holder designed, manufactured or adapted for the carrying of the firearm.
A firearm contemplated in subsection 
 must be completely covered and the person carrying the firearm must be able to exercise effective control over such firearm (carrying firearms in public is allowed if done in that manner).

Prohibited places (Firearm-free zones)