[Source: PubMed]

12. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. 2015 Dec 1;309(11):H1793-812. doi: 
10.1152/ajpheart.00199.2015. Epub 2015 Oct 2.

Cardiovascular response to thermoregulatory challenges.

Liu C(1), Yavar Z(2), Sun Q(3).

Author information:
(1)Basic Medical College, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, China; 
and.
(2)Division of Environmental Health Sciences, College of Public Health, The Ohio 
State University, Columbus, Ohio.
(3)Division of Environmental Health Sciences, College of Public Health, The Ohio 
State University, Columbus, Ohio sun.224@osu.edu.

A growing number of extreme climate events are occurring in the setting of 
ongoing climate change, with an increase in both the intensity and frequency. It 
has been shown that ambient temperature challenges have a direct and highly 
varied impact on cardiovascular health. With a rapidly growing amount of 
literature on this issue, we aim to review the recent publications regarding the 
impact of cold and heat on human populations with regard to cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) mortality/morbidity while also examining lag effects, vulnerable 
subgroups, and relevant mechanisms. Although the relative risk of 
morbidity/mortality associated with extreme temperature varied greatly across 
different studies, both cold and hot temperatures were associated with a 
positive mean excess of cardiovascular deaths or hospital admissions. 
Cause-specific study of CVD morbidity/mortality indicated that the sensitivity 
to temperature was disease-specific, with different patterns for acute and 
chronic ischemic heart disease. Vulnerability to temperature-related mortality 
was associated with some characteristics of the populations, including sex, age, 
location, socioeconomic condition, and comorbidities such as cardiac diseases, 
kidney diseases, diabetes, and hypertension. Temperature-induced damage is 
thought to be related to enhanced sympathetic reactivity followed by activation 
of the sympathetic nervous system, renin-angiotensin system, as well as 
dehydration and a systemic inflammatory response. Future research should focus 
on multidisciplinary adaptation strategies that incorporate epidemiology, 
climatology, indoor/building environments, energy usage, labor legislative 
perfection, and human thermal comfort models. Studies on the underlying 
mechanism by which temperature challenge induces pathophysiological response and 
CVD await profound and lasting investigation.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.00199.2015
PMCID: PMC4698386
PMID: 26432837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]