[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pascua Yaqui Tribe

by the Senate. It became public law, PL 95-375, on September 18, 1978. The law provides for all federal services and benefits including those provided by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service. It gives the tribe powers of self-government, with Reservation status for Yaqui lands.

The Pascua Yaqui Tribe of Arizona received designation as a historical tribe in 1994. In 1988 the Tribe's first constitution was approved. The Pascua Yaqui Reservation () is located in Pima County, in the southwestern part of the Tucson metropolitan area, amidst the suburban communities of Drexel Heights and Valencia West, and adjacent to the eastern section of the Tohono O'odham Indian Reservation, known as the San Xavier Indian Reservation. It has a land area of 4.832 km² (1.8657 sq mi, or 1,194 acres), and a 2000 census resident population of 3,315 persons, over 90 percent of whom are Native Americans. The community is governed by a chairman, a vice chairman and nine tribal council members. Police protection is provided by the Tribal Police Department, and fire protection is provided by full-time firefighters and reserves.

Religion
Though many members of the tribe adhere to Christian teachings, predominantly Catholicism, the culture of the Pascua Yaqui has preserved a rich legacy of native cultural elements that have survived the influence of missionaries. The Tribe has accepted political integration into American society but continues to retain much of their former religious and cultural ways of life.

The Yaqui people have a rich oral history related to their past and worldview that is passed down from one generation to the next.

Complexities occur for the preservation of Yaqui religious tradition considering that the Yaqui people are divided by an international boundary. The majority, if not all, of the Yaqui ceremonial leaders are located in Mexico and must cross the border between the United States and Mexico in order for Yaqui ceremonies to be held in accordance with annual calendars.

Economy
The Tribal government is the largest employer on the reservation. In addition to a smoke shop and artisan shop, the Tribe operates the Casino of the Sun gaming facility, which includes slot machines, bingo, restaurants, games and employs more than 600 staff. Casino Del Sol, the Tribe's second gaming property, opened October 2001 and has provided an additional 550+ jobs on the reservation and in the Tucson Community. The expansion of Casino Del Sol opened November 11, 2011. An additional 700 jobs were provided to the community with the expansion.

Government
A tribal council is made up of eleven elected officials, dedicated to the well being and advancement of their tribe as a whole.

The Yaqui Tribal Council 2016–2020::
Peter Yucupicio, Chairman;   Robert Valencia, Vice-Chairman;   Mary Jane Buenamea, Secretary;   Raymundo Baltazar, Treasurer;   Antonia Campoy, Council Member;   Francisco Munoz, Council Member;   Francisco Valencia Council Member;   Herminia Frias, Council Member;   David Ramirez, Council Member;   Rosa Soto Alvarez, Council Member;   Cruzita Armenta, Council Member

The list of Council members from 2012 to 2016 was:

Peter Yucupicio	Chairman,
Catalina Alvarez	Vice Chairwoman,
Francisco Munoz	Treasurer,
John Escalante	        Council Member,
Marcelino Flores	Council Member,
Robert Valencia	        Council Member,
Raymond Buelna	Council Member,
David Ramirez	        Council Member,
Mary Jane Buenamea	Council Member, 	
Rosa Soto Alvarez	Council Member,
Cruzita Armenta	Council Member.

The Pascua Yaquis have a status similar to other Native American tribes of the United States. This status makes the Yaqui eligible for specific services due to trust responsibility that the United States offers Native American peoples who have suffered land loss.

A U.S. government assisted news letter, Yaqui Times, also helps in keeping the people of the Pascua Yaqui Tribe informed.

Blood quantum for membership in the Pascua Yaqui Tribe is at least one quarter Yaqui blood. The Pascua Yaqui legal system gives no allowance in quantum for other tribal blood.

Court system 

The Pascua Yaqui Tribe operates a Judicial Department with both trial courts and an appellate court. Criminal cases are prosecuted by a Prosecutor's Office. Representation for indigent individuals is available through the Public Defender's Office. The Tribe is represented by the Attorney General's Office. All of these functions and a tribal police department are located in a modern Multi-Purpose Justice Center, which was opened in 2012.

2013 Violence Against Women Act Pilot Project