[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of coffee varieties

Resistance to pests is not normally a trait developed by breeding, but is rather a trait selected from among breeds.  Certain breeds of coffee have been found to be resistant to nematodes and leaf miner.  As with diseases, robusta has been found to be the more resistant species compared to arabica.

For those who wish to grow coffee as a houseplant, and for growers who want plants that utilize the least amount of space (and therefore money) while still producing the greatest yield, small size of an individual plant is preferred.

The amount of caffeine matters to many, as caffeine has stimulating effects, but is detrimental in excessive amounts.

The maturation rate is the time that is required before a new plant will start producing fruit. An early maturation rate is desired.

Species

C. arabica

According to The International Trade Centre, Arabica coffee accounted for roughly 61 per cent of the world's coffee production between 2004 and 2010. It would be higher if Arabica were not as susceptible to disease as it is. Coffee from the species C. arabica has many different varieties, each with unique characteristics.

C. canephora (syn. C. robusta)

Vietnam is the world's largest Robusta producer, with Robusta accounting for 97% of Vietnam's coffee output.

While not separate varieties of bean, unusual and very expensive robustas are the Indonesian kopi luwak and the Philippine Kapéng Alamid and Kahawa Kubing. The beans are collected from the droppings of the common palm civet, whose digestive processes give it a distinctive flavor.

In the Philippines, a notable Robusta variety is Kahawa Sūg, also known as the "Sulu coffee". It has been produced in the Sulu archipelago since the 1860s.

Other species
Although not as commercially viable as Arabica or Robusta, other species of coffee exist and contain unique varieties. These include Kapeng barako or Café Baraco, (), a Liberica variety grown in the Philippines, particularly in the provinces of Batangas and Cavite. It was introduced during the period of Spanish colonization and the Philippines quickly rose to become the 4th largest producer of coffee in the early 19th century. Production was cut short, however, due to "coffee rust" infestation. Coffea charrieriana is a caffeine-free coffee found in Cameroon.
Scientists from Kew Gardens rediscovered Coffea stenophylla in Sierra Leone. Previously stenophylla had not been seen in the wild since 1954, but in December 2018 Professor Jeremy Haggar, of the University of Greenwich, and Dr Aaron Davis of Kew Gardens travelled to the forests of Sierra Leone to seek it out. Stenophylla can grow at higher temperatures than Arabica and has a better flavour profile than Robusta.

Hybrids
Some varieties are hybrids of the above species.

List of cultivars

References

Coffee varieties
Lists of cultivars
Coffee production