[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blowout Comb

ip-hop artists' music as "recycled". The album has been illustrated as "a block party, but transformed by Digable's 'ghettopoesis' into a cool abstraction of street life", and "a motley clash of sounds that celebrate boom box batteries-in-the-freezer ghetto ingenuity as a raw, empowered expression".

While on a world tour in support of their album Reachin' ..., the group collected vinyl records from various countries, and formed a deep rapport with various musicians they were performing with.  Both of these factors influenced the overall sound of Blowout Comb, with its eclectic samples and live instruments. Ishmael Butler credits engineer, producer and instrumentalist Dave Darlington for helping him create the album. He recounted "Every song on Blowout is a mix of live instruments and samples. I would program the drums and tell someone 'yo, this is what I hear right here', then we'd record and get to slicing".  Several music writers have described it as "being hard to tell the difference between the samples and the live instruments because they blend so well".

Several music writers have also noted Blowout Comb'''s vocals as being "low in the mix". Ishmael Butler stated "I read where George Clinton said the stuff that's inaudible the first couple of listens adds longevity to a record, because it draws the person in. You might catch a word or a phrase on down the road, and that makes that record all the more intriguing". Ishmael also mentioned "The vocals were to be woven in with the fabric of the music, not necessarily something that was on top. The record label was like 'nobody can hear what you're saying', but I felt like if the music was engaging enough, then over time it would provide a richer listening experience".

 Lyrical content 

Many of the lyrics on Blowout Comb include references to the Five-Percent Nation, as well as the Black Panther Party, which weren't present on the group's previous album. Prior to recording, Ishmael took a trip to Los Angeles, where he stayed in Watts with several elders who were highly educated in black history. While on this trip, he absorbed many of their teachings, and reflected on his parents', who were both Black Panther members. He incorporated many of these concepts into the album's lyrics, as he didn't want Digable Planets' Afrocentrism to get overlooked by the cross-over appeal of their 1992 hit single "Rebirth of Slick (Cool Like Dat)". Group-member Mecca clarified "it was time to be more direct on how we felt about things, and the need to assess them".Blowout Comb also contains many references to Urban culture, with a range of allusions to block parties, corner stores, public housing, barbershops, incarcerated freedom-fighters, black nationalist texts, and African-American artists. It also includes many references to Brooklyn, New York as well as the borough's characteristics and credos. Hip hop writer R.H.S. wrote that "On Blowout Comb, the beloved Brooklyn borough, and by extension New York city as a whole, is lovingly depicted in all of its wondrous microcosmic complexity as a place of convergence and collusion".

While several music writers and journalists have viewed Blowout Comb's lyrics as being more "ambiguous" and "hard to decipher", others found them to be more "looser" and "less scripted" than their previous album. In an interview with Los Angeles Times, Ishmael Butler explained "We made a concerted effort to be more literal and less abstract. The first album is lyrically much more abstract. The language is so personal it's almost cryptic. Nobody who isn't real hip can really understand it".

 Artwork 
The blowout comb was a popular black grooming product in the 1970s, when Afros gained strong popularity. Digable Planets named the album after them because "it means the utilization of the natural" and "a natural style".

The album's liner notes depict advertisements for fake Soul food restaurants and local events. The artwork was modeled after the distinct design of the official Black Panther Newspaper, which Ishmael Butler came across one day while at a relative's house. Many pictures of Ishmael's trip to Los Angeles, prior to recording the album, are also shown in the artwork.

 Critical reception