[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Polish–Swedish War (1626–1629)

shal Hans Georg von Arnim-Boitzenburg. Another imperial corps, commanded by Albrecht von Wallenstein, operated in nearby Pomerania. Nonetheless, Koniecpolski was forced to withdraw from several strategic strongholds in Polish Prussia: in time he managed to recapture the seaport of Putzig (now Puck).

The Swedish king returned to Polish Prussia with substantial reinforcements in May, and marched south towards Graudenz (Grudziądz) hoping to cut-off Arnim's newly arrived imperial corps before it could join Koniecpolski. He was unsuccessful, and while withdrawing north towards Swedish garrisons in Stuhm (Sztum) and Marienburg (Malbork) he was drawn into battle on 27 June 1629 at Honigfeld(t) or Honigfelde near Stuhm, in an action known to the Poles as the Battle of Trzciana. In this encounter, while attempting to cover the withdrawal of his infantry, Swedish cavalry were subjected to a series of fierce engagements at the villages of Honigfeldt, Straszewo and Pułkowice. With the aid of Arnim's heavy cuirassiers the Poles with their faster 'winged' hussars and cossack mercenaries were able to gain a great advantage over the light Swedish horsemen. Swedish losses in the fight were heavy, amounting to 600 or 700 killed, almost all of which were cavalry (including Herman Wrangel's son). The Polish took 300 prisoners, 10-15 standards, as well as 10 of Gustavus Adolphus' famous leather cannon. Commonwealth losses were under 300 killed and wounded. The Swedish king himself barely escaped with his life and later said he had never taken "such a hot bath".

Outcome

The Polish victory at Honigfeld was not followed up by Sigismund III, who wanted to sign a truce only under the condition of Gustav Adolf renouncing the crown of Sweden. Sigismund III never gave up trying to regain the Swedish crown and his son Władysław IV continued after him. Despite all of Koniecpolski's brilliant efforts, a ceasefire in Stary Targ (Truce of Altmark) on 26 September 1629 was in favour of the Swedes, to whom Poland ceded the larger part of Livonia together with its important port of Riga. The Swedes also got the right to tax Poland's trade on the Baltic (3.5% on the value of goods), and kept control of many of the cities in Royal and Ducal Prussia (including Piława (Pillau), Memel and Elbląg (Elbing). For the time being, the Swedes were generally recognized as the dominant power on the southern coast of the Baltic Sea. It was a shortcoming of Poland's diplomatic efforts, not of its army. The Duchy of Prussia was compensated for the partial Swedish occupation with the Commonwealth's temporary (until 1634) transfer of Marienburg, Stuhm  and Żuławy Wiślane. The Commonwealth fleet's surviving ships were transferred to Sweden. The Swedes’ only major failure was their inability to capture the important port of Danzig. Gustav Adolf's biographer, Harte, noted that the king was furious "that a pacific commercial rabble should beat a set of illustrious fellows, who made fighting their profession". Nonetheless, Sweden now controlled almost all the Baltic's ports; with the notable exceptions of Danzig, Putzig, Königsberg and Liepāja (Libau). This would be the closest the Swedes ever got to realising their goal of making the Baltic Sea 'Sweden's inner lake'. After the treaty, Sweden used their prizes and money as a starting point for their entry into the Thirty Years' War and commenced the invasion of northern Germany.

The Treaty of Altmark was eventually revised in the Commonwealth's favour in 1635 (Treaty of Sztumska Wieś or Treaty of Stuhmsdorf), when Sweden, with the death of the king Gustav Adolph in 1632, was weakened by its losses in the Thirty Years' War, retreated from some of the Baltic ports and stopped collecting the 3.5% tax.

See also

References

External links 
 Swedish-Polish War, 1620-1629
 On GUSTAF II ADOLF and Poland: , , 

1620s conflicts
Military history of Prussia
Swedish Livonia
Wars involving the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth
Wars involving Sweden
Poland–Sweden relations
Lithuania–Sweden relations
Warfare of the early modern period
1626 in Sweden
17th century in Latvia
1626 in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth
1626 in the Holy Roman Empire
Wars involving the Holy Roman Empire