[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mark Bowen (footballer)

he club's best ever left-back and put him in the club's 'all-time XI'. He is also a member of the Norwich City F.C. Hall of Fame. He won 35 Welsh caps while at Norwich, meaning that he holds the record for being the club's most capped player. He was nicknamed 'Taff' because of his Welsh connections.

After leaving Carrow Road, Bowen signed for West Ham United making his debut appearance on 21 August 1996 in a 1–1 home draw against Coventry City. He made 20 appearances for The Hammers in all competitions scoring one goal in a 2–0 away win against Nottingham Forest on 21 September 1996. In January 1997 he signed a lucrative contract for Shimizu S-Pulse in Japan, again on a free transfer, before signing for Charlton Athletic shortly after the start of the 1997–98 season. He was a member of the Addicks side that won promotion to the Premiership at the end of that season after a memorable play-off final against Sunderland at Wembley ended 4–4. Charlton won the penalty shoot-out, with Bowen scoring one of the spot-kicks. For a while during his time at Norwich Bowen had been the team's penalty taker. He scored just twice from the spot for Norwich, against Notts County and Queens Park Rangers respectively.

That 1998 play-off final proved to be the last high-point of Bowen's playing career. He left Charlton a year later having suffered a serious injury and he played briefly for Wigan Athletic and Reading.

Coaching career
Bowen began his coaching career while at Reading as Mark Hughes made him Assistant Manager for the Welsh national side. He then linked up with former Norwich teammate Steve Bruce when he was manager first at Crystal Palace, then at Birmingham City. In 2002, under Bruce and Bowen's stewardship, Birmingham won promotion to the Premier League via the play-offs. They won the final against Norwich City in a penalty shoot-out after the match had ended 1–1. Bowen remained at Birmingham for two more years taking them to 10th position in the Premier League before leaving in the summer of 2004. Shortly afterwards in August 2004 Bowen returned to the Wales national team set-up. The move caused some controversy as Hughes appointed Bowen without the knowledge of the Football Association of Wales.

On 16 September 2004, Hughes was appointed manager at Blackburn Rovers and Bowen joined him as assistant manager. Whilst at Blackburn, Bowen was linked with the managerial vacancy at West Brom, Norwich City and Swansea City. In June 2008, Bowen followed Hughes to Manchester City as assistant manager, and left the club with him in December 2009 with club sitting 3rd in Premier League and in semi final of League Cup. Whilst at Manchester City the club was taken over by the wealthy Abu Dhabi United Group.

In August 2010, Bowen again followed Hughes, to become his assistant at Fulham. An eighth place Premier League place was achieved. Hughes and Bowen turned down contract offers from Fulham due to uncertainties as to how the club was being run at that time. Following Hughes departure in June 2011, Bowen also left the club. Bowen worked with Hughes at Queens Park Rangers for a year, saving the club from relegation from the Premier League in 2011. Hughes was sacked in November 2012. Bowen took caretaker charge of QPR for one match against Manchester United in a 3–1 defeat.

Bowen then joined Hughes at Stoke City in June 2013. Three top ten Premier League finishes followed - Which was Stoke City's highest ever position in Premier League. He remained at Stoke until January 2018.

After Hughes was appointed Southampton manager in March 2018, Bowen followed him to St. Mary's, initially on a contract for the remainder of the 2017–18 season. In May 2018, after successfully steering Southampton to Premier League safety, it was announced that Bowen had signed a new long-term contract. On 3 December 2018, he was dismissed following the sacking of Mark Hughes. His Premier league coaching career now spanning some 537 Premier League games.

On 27 March 2019, Bowen was hired as a technical consultant for Reading. He was announced as the club's sporting director on 21 August, and succeeded José Gomes as manager on 14 October. Prior to being appointed manager he had been tasked with drawing up a shortlist of candidates for the job he eventually was offered. On 17 January 2020, Bowen extended his contract until the end of the 2020–2021 season. Bowen took Reading from 23rd in Championship table to a respectable 14th - a rise of nine places. On 29 August 2020, Bowen was replaced as manager by Veljko Paunović, and despite being offered a new role by the club as Sport Director, his departure from Reading was confirmed on 31 August 2020.