[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1978 World Snooker Championship

on. Reardon said afterwards that "The previous day I'd felt wonderful and couldn't hit a ball. This time I felt tired and listless and played marvellous." Reardon won 18–14. A third-place playoff was over two sessions on 27 and 28April as the best of 13 frames. Charlton won 7–3 against Davis.

Final

The final took place from 27 to 29April, played over six sessions as the best of 49 frames, with John Williams as referee. Reardon and Mans were level at 2–2 but Reardon finished the first session 5–2 ahead. Mans levelled by taking the first three frames of the second session; Reardon later led 7–5, but the session finished with the score at 8–8. During the third session, they were level again at 10–10; the session finished with Reardon one frame ahead at 12–11. He increased his advantage by taking the first three frames in the next session. Sports historian Ian Morrison later wrote that at 15–11, "for the first time since the opening session, the scoreboard reflected the true difference between the two players." With each player winning three of the next six frames, Reardon was still four frames up, at 18–14. On the third day, Mans narrowed the gap to a single frame, but a 100 break by Reardon in the 36th frame doubled that deficit, and the session finished with Reardon four frames in front again, at 22–18. In the concluding session, Reardon made an 81 break in winning the opening frame, and added the next two frames to secure victory at 25–18. 

Reardon became the oldest ever World Champion at the age of 45 years and 203 days, a record that lasted until 2022 when Ronnie O'Sullivan won the title aged 46 years and 148 days. It was Reardon's sixth and last world championship title. In a post-match interview, Reardon stated that he felt he had "played well throughout", and praised Mans's ability to pot balls, commenting that "He makes shots that I would not even dream of attempting." Mans said that "I felt good when I won the first three frames. But then Ray made a century. He found his rhythm and I just couldn't do anything about it."

John Hennessy of The Times felt that the pair were generally evenly matched, but "temperament, allied to superlative technique, seemed always on Reardon's side. Whereas Mans seemed in just too much of a hurry between strokes Reardon took a measured tread round the table, gathering his thoughts and concentration on the way." He speculated that Mans had lost his nerve towards the end of the match, as shown in him playing more  shots and attempting fewer of the audacious pots that he had been playing throughout the tournament. Television critic Clive James, television critic for The Observer, praised how Reardon "embodies in its highest form snooker's heady combination of requirements: he has uncanny physical skill and a subtle mind to go with it."

During the final, Peter Fiddick of The Guardian commented on how "this nation has been taking an extraordinary interest... in snooker", and how the players were "very conscious of their new audience and its implications." A few days later, in the same newspaper, Frank Keating wrote that "snooker finally managed its coming out party at the grand old age of 103." Hennessy felt that the substitution of snooker in place of the scheduled coverage of horse racing in the BBC's Grandstand was "a remarkable testimony to the grip that the world professional championship took on the British public during the preceding fortnight." He predicted that "One way and another the game is not likely to be the same again." Everton, who made his BBC commentary debut for the match between Charlton and Thorne, suggested in 1993 that the BBC's decision to screen daily coverage of the tournament was "the single most influential decision ever made in the history of snooker, broadening its commercial horizons forever."

Main draw
Numbers in parentheses indicate seedings. Players in bold are match winners.

Qualifying
The results of the qualifying competition are shown below. Winning players are denoted in bold.

Century breaks 
There were seven century breaks at the championship, the highest being 138 by John Spencer.
 138, 118  John Spencer
 119, 100  Ray Reardon
 108  Eddie Charlton
 105  Fred Davis
 105  Patsy Fagan

References
Citations

Bibliography

1978
World Championship
World Snooker Championship
Sports competitions in Sheffield
World Snooker Championship