[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 72]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

cordingly she does even as she had said," continued Lady Engleton.
"She will not brook that interference with her liberty which marriage
among us old-fashioned people generally implies. She refuses to submit
to the attempt that is of course made (in spite of a pre-nuptial
understanding) to bring her under the yoke, and so off she goes and
lives independently, leaving husband and relatives lamenting."

The vicar's wife said she thought she must be going home. Her husband
would be expecting her.

"Oh, won't you wait a little, Mrs. Walker? Your daughters would perhaps
like a game of tennis with my brothers presently."

Mrs. Walker yielded uneasily.

"But before _Caterina_ takes the law into her own hands, in this way,"
Lady Engleton continued, "she is troubled with doubts. She sometimes
wonders whether she ought not, after all, to respect the popular
standards (notwithstanding the compact), instead of disturbing everybody
by clinging to her own. Now was it strength of character or obstinate
egotism that induced her to stick to her original colours, come what
might? That is the question which the book has stated but left
unanswered."

Miss Du Prel said that the book showed, if it showed anything, that one
must be true to one's own standard, and not attempt to respect an ideal
in practice that one despises in theory. We are bound, she asserted, to
produce that which is most individual within us; to be ourselves, and
not a poor imitation of someone else; to dare even apparent wrong-doing,
rather than submit to live a life of devotion to that which we cannot
believe.

Mrs. Walker suggested to her daughters that they might go and have a
look at the rose-garden, but the daughters preferred to listen to the
conversation.

"In real life," said the practical Algitha, "_Caterina_ would not have
been able to follow her idea so simply. Supposing she had had children
and complicated circumstances, what could she have done?"

Miss Du Prel thought that a compromise might have been made.

"A compromise by which she could act according to two opposite
standards?"

Valeria was impatient of difficulties. It was not necessary that a woman
should leave her home in order to be true to her conscience. It was the
best method in _Caterina's_ case, but not in all.

Miss Du Prel did not explain very clearly what she meant. Women made too
much of difficulties, she thought. Somehow people _had_ managed to
overcome obstacles. Look at--and then followed a list of shining
examples.

"I believe you would blame a modern woman who imitated them," said Mrs.
Temperley. "These women have the inestimable advantage of being dead."

"Ah, yes," Lady Engleton agreed, with a laugh, "we women may be anything
we like--in the last century."

"The tides of a hundred years or so sweeping over one's audacious deed,
soften the raw edges. Then it is tolerated in the landscape; indeed, it
grows mossy and picturesque." Mrs. Temperley made this comparison.

"And then think how useful it becomes to prove that a daring deed _can_
be done, given only the necessary stuff in brain and heart."

Mrs. Walker looked at Algitha in dismay.

"One can throw it in the teeth of one's contemporaries," added Algitha,
"if they fail to produce a dramatic climax of the same kind."

"Only," said Mrs. Temperley, "if they _do_ venture upon their own
dreadful deed--the deed demanded by their particular modern
predicament--then we all shriek vigorously."

"Oh, we shriek less than we used to," said Lady Engleton. "It is quite a
relief to be able to retain one's respectability on easier terms."

"In such a case as Miss Du Prel depicts? I doubt it. _Caterina_, in real
life, would have a lively story to tell. How selfish we should think
her! How we should point to the festoons of bleeding hearts that she had
wounded--a dripping cordon round the deserted home! No; I believe Miss
Du Prel herself would be horrified at her own _Caterina_ if she came
upon her unexpectedly in somebody's drawing-room."

There was a laugh.

"Of course, a great deal is to be said for the popular way of looking at
the matter," Lady Engleton observed. "This fascinating heroine must have
caused a great deal of real sorrow, or at least she _would_ have caused
it, were it not that her creator had considerably removed all relatives,
except a devoted couple of unorthodox parents, who are charmed at her
decision to scandalize society, and wonder why she doesn't do it sooner.
Parents like that don't grow on every bush."

Mrs. Walker glanced nervously at her astonished girls.

Lady Engleton pointed out that had _Caterina_ been situated in a more
ordinary manner, she would have certainly broken her parents' hearts and
embittered their last years, to say nothing of the husband and perhaps
the children, who would have suffered for want of a mother's care.

"But why should the husband suffer?" asked Algitha. "_Caterina's_
husband