[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Malvan

ls.

Much of population, specially Bhandaris, Gabits, Konkani people are found on the Konkan coast. Especially in Karwar, Ankola, Kumta, Honavar (Karnataka) & Goa, these people have migrated from Malvan way back in the 17th century. They have their ancestral Kuldevatas at Malvan (Dev Rameshwar) etc.

Culture 
 Malvani dialect: Malvan has its unique culture signified by its peculiar dialect and food. Malvan lends its name to 'Malvani' dialect (A Konkani dialect or sometimes referred as a mix of Marathi and Konkani). This dialect is very popular amongst the local population only in the Sindhudurg district and also parts of Northern Goa.
 Cuisine - The cuisine of this region is popularly known as Malvani cuisine. Coconut, rice and fish assume prime significance in the Malvani cuisine.
 Dashavataar (In Devnagari: दशावतार)- It is an art form popular in most of the Konkan region in Maharashtra and more so in and around Malvan. It is a play that depicts the 10 incarnations of Lord Vishnu (as in Hindu mythology).This continues till wee hours of morning. Dashavataar, mainly conducted at the time of "Saptah" which is the mahapuja of Gram Devta. During this all villagers also sale their homemade products like Khaja, Kadak Ladu (popularly known as "Khatkhate Ladu"), Lonache - लोणचें (Pickles), and others. This utsav is the main Parvany (Event) for the villagers. At this very important event, all Chakarmani (A term used for a large number of salaried class people from Konkan who migrated to cities like Mumbai, Pune for livelihood) visit their homes and enjoy the regional sweets (Khaja).
 Barrister Nath Pai Sevangan: Barrister Nath Pai Sevangan is named after the famous freedom fighter and legislator from Maharashtra - Barrister Nath Pai. It is in Dhuriwada, Malwan near the seashore. It undertakes humanitarian work and has huge enclosed community center in which many events take place.
 Pimpal (The Peepal Tree): Pimpal is a peepal tree (Sacred fig) in the heart of the town. So, the city has been named after it. On one side of this tree is a road leading to the municipal corporation, on the other side there is Topiwala High School and a Government health clinic.The Pimpal tree is considered sacred and holy and has been in Malvan for as many as 60 years. It is a place for tea time discussions for the local people.
 Malvan Schramik Maachimar Sangh: The traditional fish-worker union in Malvan, registered in 1987, has local small-scale fishermen as its members.
 Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, the conference on Marathi Literature was held in 1958 in Malvan. It was presided by the then President of the conference Atmaram Ravaji Deshpande alias Kavi Anil in 1958.
Rock Garden, adjoining the beach is a famous tourist spot in Malvan

Wildlife Sanctuary 
The Malvan Marine Wildlife Sanctuary was declared on 13 April 1987, with a core zone of 3.182 km2 and buffer zone of 25.94 km2 (total area being 29.122 km2). The core zone includes the Sindhudurg Fort, Padamged island and other submerged rocky structures. The northeastern border of the buffer zone is 50 m from the sea near Malvan port, while on the east it is a semi-circular sandy beach 500 m parallel to the shore of Malvan, in the south it is near Mandel rock, and in the west touches the Malvan rock.

In India there are a very few places where scuba diving can be done and Malvan is one of them. Due to its relatively clear sea waters, Malvan serves as a perfect spot for scuba diving (done mostly with surface oxygen supply) and snorkeling. 

Near the outer walls of Sindhudurg fort live coral and colorful marine life under the sea are visible. The patch of coral reef at Tarkarli in Malwan is a smaller reef and in turn part of the wider patchy Ratnagiri coral reef, all of which are the inter-tidal living corals reef.

Water sports 
There are various water sports options available throughout Malvan near seacoast at affordable rates.
Tsunami Island (near Devbaug Beach) is a small island on the delta of Tarkarli River. This beach island also is the place to enjoy boat ride in the backwaters of Tarkarli River. This island is not formed due to tsunami waves, but due to this imaginary name it is a popular tourist destination for water sports where one can enjoy rides like Jet-Ski, Banana boat ride, Bumper boat, Kayaks, etc. Best time to visit tsunami island for water sports is during high tide when the small island is partially submerged under the water (till knee length).
booking - www.malvanbeach.com