[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jorge Valdivia

Player, Prêmio Craque do Brasileirão, Bola de Ouro and Troféu Mesa Redonda, that put him as the season's best playmaker of Brazilian football. His further consecration at the Verdão was the obtention of 2008 Campeonato Paulista title, where for his performances he came to cost US$40 dollars.

Al Ain

In August 2008, it was reported that Valdivia joined United Arab Emirates' Al Ain in an €8 million deal for a two-year contract. At the Emirati club, he won the Etisalat Emirates Cup, President Cup and the Super Cup. There, he became a top idol in the history of the club, so much so that Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, president of the club, offered him a lifetime contract (which Valdivia didn't sign).

Palmeiras return
During and after the 2010 FIFA World Cup, there were persistent rumours about his possible return to Palmeiras, which finally occurred on 26 July following the agree between Al-Ain and São Paulo-based side for a €16 million deal. In his presentation on 14 August, Valdivia was received by 15.000 fans at Estádio do Pacaembu. However, he was heavily criticized for his bad performances and for being out of shape; a topic that was recurrent during all his spell at the club.

Al Wahda
On 25 June 2015, was reported that Valdivia would return to United Arab Emirates to sign for Al-Wahda, after rejecting an offer from China's Guangzhou Evergrande. The player and the club reached a two-season contract and a US$2.8 million salary per year.

Colo-Colo return
On 19 June 2017, Valdivia returned to his first club Colo-Colo. In December 2019, Colo-Colo announced they would be not renewing his contract.

Morelia
On January 16, 2020, Valdivia signed with Liga MX side Morelia.

Retirement
On 1 July 2022, Valdivia confirmed that he had already decided to retire from football on the radio program Los Tenores (The Tenors) from ADN Radio Chile, looking to become a football manager and to work in TV media.

International career
Born in Venezuela,  Valdivia was eligible to play for the national team of either country. However, he appeared with Chile's U20 in the 2003 South American Youth Championship, only making two appearances in a tournament which Chile finished last in the group stage.

Valdivia also represented his country in the 2004 Pre-Olympic Tournament — alongside players like Claudio Bravo, Jean Beausejour, Luis Pedro Figueroa or Mark González — where he had an impressive performance. In June of that year, he earned his first senior cap for Chile national team against Mexico. Also that year he became part of the 2006 FIFA World Cup qualifying nominees under Juvenal Olmos as head coach, who choose him to play the Pre-Olympic. Nevertheless, Chile failed to qualify the World Cup.

Valdivia scored his first international goal for Chile in an exhibition match against Paraguay in Vina del Mar on 16 November 2006 during a 3–2 victory.

In June 2007, Valdivia was chosen in Chile's Copa América squad, which they were eliminated in quarterfinals after a 6–1 thrash of Brazil. However, before the game against Brazil, he alongside five players went on a spree and once leaked the press they received a 20-game ban from the federation (ANFP). Then Nelson Acosta resigned as national team coach.

A year and half later, he was re-considered by Marcelo Bielsa after calling-up him to a friendly game with Turkey on 5 August 2008. One month later, on 7 September, Valdivia made his debut for the 2010 World Cup qualifying in a 3–0 loss with Brazil, which he was sent off for double-yellow card. On 10 October 2009, he scored the last goal of the 4–2 win over Colombia at Medellín that finished Chile's 12-year World Cup absence since 1998.

Being a key player during qualification, he was selected in the 23-man World Cup roster and participated in the most of the preparatory games, scoring a goal even in a 3–0 win over Zambia in Calama. However at the World Cup, he performed well despite of playing as Second striker, highlighting his 35-yard though pass that broke Switzerland's defensive and allowed Esteban Paredes cross for Mark González header goal. Then Chile was eliminated after losing again to Brazil.

2011–2014