[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Internet-related prefixes

Internet-related prefixes such as e-, i-, cyber-, info-, techno-  and net- are added to a wide range of existing words to describe new, Internet- or computer-related flavors of existing concepts, often electronic products and services that already have a non-electronic counterpart. The adjective virtual is often used in a similar manner.

Cyber-, e-, i, and virtual

"Cyber-" 
Cyber- is derived from "cybernetic", from the Greek κυβερνητικός 'steersman'. Examples: cyberspace, cyberlaw, cyberbullying, cybercrime, cyberwarfare, cyberterrorism, cybersex, and cyberdelic. It is commonly used for policies and politics regarding computer systems and networks (as in the above cases), but also for information technology products and services. Further examples:
 Cyber crime, crime that involves computers and networks
 Convention on Cybercrime, the first international treaty seeking to address Internet and computer crime, signed in 2001
 Cybercrime countermeasures
 Cyber-attack, an offensive manoeuvre that targets computers
 Cyberbullying, bullying or harassment using electronic means
 Cybercafé, a business which provides internet access
 Cyberculture, emergent cultures based on the use of computer networks
 Cybergoth sub-culture
 Cybersex (colloquially)
 Cyberinfrastructure or computer networks
 Cybersecurity, or computer security
 Cybersex trafficking, the live streaming of coerced sexual acts and or rape
 Cyberstalking, use of the Internet or other electronic means to stalk or harass an individual, group, or organization
 Cyberterrorism, use of the Internet to carry out terrorism   
 Cyberwarfare, the targeting of computers and networks in war

"E-" 
E-, standing for electronic, is used in the terms e-mail, e-commerce, e-business, e-banking, e-sports, e-paper, e-cigarette, e-car, e-girl, e-reservation, and e-book.

The lowercase initial e prefix was used as early as 1994 by eWorld, Apple's online service.

"i-" 
The i- prefix was used in 1964 in "In Watermelon Sugar", Richard Brautigan's American postmodern post-apocalyptic novel published in 1968. Set in the aftermath of a fallen civilization, it focuses on a commune organized around a central gathering house which is named "iDEATH"
The i- prefix was used as early as 1994 by iVillage, an internet community site by and for women. More recent examples include the BBC's iPlayer, and Google's former iGoogle service. It has even been used by companies not in the IT sector for their websites, such as Coca-Cola's now-defunct icoke.com.

Apple Inc. is especially connected to the i- prefix. They first employed it for the iMac line of computers starting in 1998, and have since used it in many of their other product names, including iCal, iSync, iChat, iBook, iDVD, iLife, iMessage, iPod (and iPod Socks), iSight, iPhone, iWeb, iTunes, iCloud, and others. They have said it stands for "Internet".

Promotional materials for the 2004 film I, Robot, inspired by Isaac Asimov's short-story collection of the same name, utilized a lowercase i as a cultural reference to the rising popularity at that time of the prefix in product names.

The letter "i" was also used in the popular Nickelodeon show iCarly, as that show primarily uses the internet as its main theme and to parodize the fact that Apple uses "i-" in almost all its products.

"Virtual" 
The word virtual is used in a similar way to the prefixes above, but it is an adjective instead of a prefix. For example, it is used in the terms virtual reality, virtual world, and virtual sex.

Linguistic behaviour 
These prefixes are productive. Michael Quinion notes that most of these formations are nonce words that will never be seen again. He writes that new terms such as "e-health" are unneeded; in this case telemedicine already exists to describe the application of telecommunications to medicine. He similarly points out the redundancy of e-tail, e-commerce, and e-business. Martin likewise characterizes many of these words as "fad words" and believes many will disappear once the technology that resulted in their coinage becomes better accepted and understood. For example, he writes, "when using computers becomes the standard way to do business, there will be no need to call it 'e-business' — it may be just 'business.'"

Spelling controversies 
There is some confusion over whether these prefixes should be hyphenated and/or in upper case. In the case of e-mail, it was originally hyphenated and lowercase in general usage, but the hyphen is no longer common.

In 1999, Michael Quinion attributed the forms "email", "E-mail" and "Email" to uncertainty on the parts of newer Internet users. In 2003, Ronald Smith prescribed that the e- should always be lowercase and hyphenated. In 2013, the Associated Press Stylebook removed the hyphen from "e-mail", following the general usage of the word.