[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 96]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

fishers then approach, and
cut off the fins and other valuable parts, which they stow on board
their ships; the fat, or blubber, as it is often called, is received
into large hogsheads, and when boiled, to purify it, composes the common
oil, which is applied to so many useful purposes. The remains of this
vast body are left a prey to other fish and to the Greenlanders, who
carefully collect every fragment which they can find, and apply it to
their own use. Sometimes they go to pursue the whale themselves, but
when they do, it is in large numbers, and they attack him nearly in the
same manner as the Europeans do, only, as they are not so well supplied
with cord, they fix the skins of seals, which they have inflated with
air, to the end of the thongs which are tied to their harpoons, and this
serves both to weary out the fish, who drags them with him under the
water, and to discover him the instant he approaches to the surface.

_Harry._--I cannot help pitying the poor whale that is thus persecuted
for the sake of his spoils. Why cannot man let this poor beast live
unmolested in the midst of the snows and ice in which he was born?

_Mr Barlow._--You ought to know enough of the world to be sensible that
the desire of gain will tempt men upon every expedition. However, in
this case you must consider that the whale himself is continually
supported by murdering thousands of herrings and other small fish; so
that, were they possessed of reason, they would welcome the Europeans,
who came to destroy their enemies, as friends and benefactors.

_Tommy._--But pray, sir, how do the little boys amuse themselves in such
a dismal country? Do their fathers take them out a-fishing with them?

_Mr Barlow._--When the men come home all covered with wet and icicles,
and sit down comfortably in their huts to feast upon the prey, their
common conversation is about the dangers and accidents they have met
with in their expedition. A Greenlander relates how he bounded over the
waves to surprise the monstrous seal; how he pierced the animal with his
harpoon, who had nearly dragged the boat with him under the water; how
he attacked him again in closer combat; how the beast, enraged with his
wounds, rushed upon him in order to destroy him with his teeth; and how,
in the end, by courage and perseverance, he triumphed over his
adversary, and brought it safe to land. All this will he relate with the
vehemence and interest which people naturally feel for things which
concern them nearly; he stands in the midst of his countrymen, and
describes every minute circumstance of his adventures; the little
children gather round, and greedily catch the relation; they feel
themselves interested in every circumstance; they hear, and wish to
share in the toils and glory of their fathers. When they are a little
bigger they exercise themselves in small skiffs, with which they learn
to overcome the waves. Nothing can be more dangerous, or require greater
dexterity than the management of a Greenlander's boat. The least thing
will overset it, and then, the man who cannot disengage himself from the
boat, which is fastened to his middle, sinks down below the waves, and
is inevitably drowned, if he cannot regain his balance. The only hope of
doing this, is placed in the proper application of his oar, and,
therefore, the dexterous management of this implement forms the early
study of the young Greenlanders. In their sportive parties they row
about in a thousand different manners. They dive under their boats, and
then set them to rights with their paddle; they learn to glide over the
roughest billows, and face the greatest dangers with intrepidity, till
in the end they acquire sufficient strength and address to fish for
themselves, and to be admitted into the class of men.

_Harry._--Pray, sir, is this the country where men travel about upon
sledges that are drawn by dogs?

_Tommy._--Upon sledges drawn by dogs! that must be droll indeed. I had
no idea that dogs could ever draw carriages.

_Mr Barlow._--The country you are speaking of is called Kamtschatka; it
is indeed a cold and dreary country, but very distant from Greenland.
The inhabitants there train up large dogs, which they harness to a
sledge, upon which the master sits, and so performs his journey along
the snow and ice. All the summer the Kamtschatkans turn their dogs loose
to shift for themselves, and prey upon the remains of fish which they
find upon the shore or the banks of the rivers (for fish is the common
food of all the inhabitants); in the winter they assemble their dogs and
use them for the purposes I have mentioned. They have no reins to govern
the dogs, or stop them in their course, but the driver sits upon his
sledge, and keeps himself as steady as he is able, holding in his hand a
short stick, which he throws at the dogs if they displease him, and
catches again with great dexterity as he passes. This way of trave