[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of retronyms

have a main office building, but students can be located in a different locale than the teachers. The internet is used as a conduit for information exchanges, both synchronously and asynchronously. 
 Brick-and-mortar store, high street shop  As increasing use of the Internet allowed online stores, accessible only through computers, to compete with established retail shops, the latter began to be called "brick-and-mortar stores" or "high street shops" to indicate that customers could (or had to) visit them to examine and purchase their goods. These two terms are also often used to describe the physical storefronts of a retail business that also sells products online. In the U.S. and Canada, "brick-and-mortar" emphasizes the physical construction of these stores, as opposed to the largely electronic nature of online stores. The terms "high street shop" (UK) or "main street store" or "downtown store" (U.S. and Canada) also serve to differentiate the more traditional retail venue from big-chain "box stores" such as K-mart, Wal-Mart, or Zellers, which did not exist prior to the 1960s. (The name "High Street" is commonly used in the UK for a town's primary thoroughfare. In the U.S. and Canada, it is more likely to be called "Main Street".)
 British English   Was simply referred to as "English" until North American English dialects and British English dialects started to diverge.
 Broadcast television  This term was coined in the U.S. to distinguish it from cable and satellite television.
 Brown rice  Prior to the mid nineteenth century, all rice consumed was brown or, whole grain. With the invention of white rice, brown began to refer to the traditional version.

C–E
 Chicago II  Refers to the second album by the band Chicago. The album was originally entitled just Chicago but the name was changed after the release of the third album, Chicago III. (Their first album was called Chicago Transit Authority, as that was the name of the band at the time.)
 Classical Hollywood Cinema  a term commonly used since the 1970s to refer to the mainstream commercial American cinema of roughly 1930–1960, which at the time was simply referred to as "Hollywood", "the cinema", "the movies" etc. (see 'film noir' below).
 Classic Apple  After Apple bought NeXT in 1997 and later became profitable, people began to refer to the pre-1997 history of the company as Classic Apple to differentiate it from the post-1997 Apple as the company was near bankruptcy when it bought NeXT. Apple nowadays is very successful and popular.
 Classic rock  a radio format referring to blues rock and hard rock music from the 1960s to the 1990s. The radio format previously was known as Album-oriented rock.
 Classic Mac OS  Originally called System and later Mac OS, Apple retroactively added Classic to versions of the operating system from 1 to 9.2.2 (which were partly based on Lisa OS) to differentiate them from the newer Mac OS X (which was based on NeXTSTEP).
 Cloth diaper (Terry nappy)  Before the second half of the 20th century, all diapers (nappies, in the UK) were made from cloth (terry cloth) and simply called diapers (US) or nappies (UK). The advent of the disposable diaper gave rise to this term.
 Command & Conquer: Tiberian Dawn  This name is sometimes used by fans of the Command & Conquer series to refer to the original game of the series, officially known simply as Command & Conquer.
 Complex instruction set computer This name was coined after the advent of Reduced instruction set computer.
 Constitution Act, 1867 Prior to 1982, when the patriation of the constitution occurred, Canada's constitution was known as British North America Act 1867.
 Corn on the cob  Before canned corn was widely available, "corn on the cob" was simply "corn".
 Bic Cristal  Before the 2000s, the Bic Cristal was named "Bic Classic" pen. Prior to the 1990s, "Bic Classic" was referred to simply as the "Bic pen".
 CSI: Las Vegas  Not used before the debut of the spinoff series CSI: Miami in 2002, and CSI: NY in 2004.
Curved, curly or smart quotes  Straight quotes were made widespread by typewriters.  The smart designation came about as word processing software would often change straight quotes into curved quotes. 
 Data-transfer USB port  Before "recharge-only" (or powered USB) came along, all USB ports could both transfer data, and "recharge" mobile devices.
 Day baseball  Baseball played during the day, as all games were played before electric lighting in stadiums became common.
 Dairy milk  Used to refer to actual milk from a mammal's mammary glands, as opposed to plant milks like soy milk, rice milk, almond milk, and coconut milk.
 Disposable battery  Before rechargeable batteries became popular in AA, AAA, C, D and PP3 form factors, all batteries in those form factors were disposable. However, rechargeable batteries back then were limited to stationary and vehicular (sometimes semi-portable) applications.
 Divided expressway/freeway (USA)  Early expressways and freeway