[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Legislative Assembly of the Falkland Islands

red. The Legislative Assembly is elected through universal suffrage, which in reality means that a person can vote if they are eighteen years or over on the date of the election, have Falkland Islands status be a British citizen and are a resident in the Falkland Islands on the date of the election.

Someone can lose their right to vote if they have been certified insane or of unsound mind under any law, if they are serving a sentence of imprisonment for a term of at least twelve months, if they have been convicted of an offence relating to elections, or if they have any acknowledgement of allegiance, obedience or adherence to a foreign Power or State. Regular members of His Majesty's Armed Forces are also not allowed to vote.

If there is any dispute over the election of the Assembly, or the validity of anyone to vote or stand for election, the Supreme Court of the Falkland Islands has the jurisdiction to resolve the dispute.

By-elections

If an elected member of the Legislative Assembly vacates his or her seat for any reason other than a dissolution of the Assembly, there is a by-election to fill the empty seat. The by-election must be held within 70 days the vacancy occurring, unless the Assembly is due to be dissolved within 126 days.

Current composition

The last election took place on 4 November 2021 and the next election is due to take place in 2025. As no political parties are active on the Islands, non-partisans were elected at the most recent election.

Elected members

Officials

The Directorates are paid employees, members of the Corporate Management Team, the principal civil servants of the Assembly.

Oath or affirmation
Under section 42 of the constitution, before entering upon the functions of his or her office, the MLAs must take the oath of allegiance and the oath of office. The wording for the oath of office is specified in Annex B to the Constitution:

References

External links
 

 
2009 establishments in the Falkland Islands
Falkland Islands
Politics of the Falkland Islands
Falkland Islands