[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Siping Campaign

The Siping Campaign (四平战役) was a nine-month struggle between the communist and the Nationalists for Siping in Jilin, China during the Chinese Civil War in the post World War II era, and resulted in communist victory.

Prelude
By the early June 1947, the communists had successfully isolated Siping (city) in their Summer Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China, the communists decided to take the city despite the fact that they had totally lacked the experience of taking strongly defended cities that are heavily fortified, and it was obvious to both sides that the isolated city would be the next battlefield.   Siping (city) was defended by three divisions belong to two separate armies and the commander of the nationalist 71st Army, Chen Mingren (陈明仁) was named as the nationalist commander-in-chief of the urban defense.  All three nationalist divisions suffered greatly in earlier battles and none of them was fully manned.  However, the communists had eradicated nationalists in the region from Tieling in the south and Changchun in the north, and most of these nationalist forces had retreated to Siping (city).  Chen Mingren (陈明仁) successfully recruited and incorporated these forces into his force, and every able bodied-man who had a governmental job was also recruited into the local garrison.  Construction for additional fortifications and strengthening the current ones was also completed in very short span of time, and in a devoted effort, many bunkers were built by sacks full of wheat and starch of American aid.  On June 3, 1947, Chiang Kai-shek flew to Shenyang and personally wrote to Chen Mingren (陈明仁) stating that Siping (city) was a very important location in Northeast China and if lost, the nationalists would not only lose Northeast China, but also endangering the rest of China, so the city must be defended at all cost, and Chen Mingren (陈明仁) was determined to hold the city, and the nationalist reporters claimed the city as Chen Mingren (陈明仁)'s fortress after witnessing the extensive defensive complex built.

On June 9, 1947, the enemy had completed its regroup outside the city for the upcoming attack.  However, the communist made a serious intelligence blunder in underestimating the defenders' strength by only assessing the total nationalist strength as 18,000, and even Lin Biao had erroneously believed that there were only four fully combat capable nationalist regiments with full strength in the city.  The enemy had missed the significant intelligence including the defenders receiving airdrop of 400 tons of supplies and weaponry in more than 200 sorties from Shenyang, and the rapid new construction of the fortifications.  The defenders' recruitment of previously defeated nationalist forces into the local garrison was completely undetected by the enemy, and enemy did not expect the nationalist air force would actively participate in the first stage in support of the ground troops defending the city either.  This serious intelligence blunder would have to be paid with an extremely heavy price later in the first stage of the campaign.

Order of battle
Defenders: Nationalist order of battle:
First stage (more than 35,000 troops total):
The 87th Division of the 71st Army
The 88th Division of the 71st Army
The 54th Division  of the 13th Army
Second stage:
Nationalist units with more than 19,000 troops

Attackers: communist order of battle:
The 1st Column
The 7th Column
The 6th Column (First stage)
The 3rd Column (Second Stage)

First stage
On June 11, 1947, the communists begun their assault on the nationalist positions outside the city, and on the same night, the airport at the western suburb of the city was taken by the communist 7th Column.  On June 13, 1947, the communist 1st Column took Xinlitun, and the nationalist air force begun to attack enemy ground positions at a rate of near twenty sorties per day in order to support the defenders of the city.  On June 14, 1947, Lin Biao ordered the 11th Division and the 12th Division of the communist 4th Column to strike south toward Shenyang and Fushun to distract nationalist forces stationed in those cities from reinforcing Siping (city), and to take Fushun if possible.  At 8:00 PM on June 14, 1947, the assault on the city itself had begun with five communist artillery battalions with near a hundred large caliber artillery pieces starting to bombard the city, even the 12 anti-aircraft artilleries in the communist inventory were deployed to shell the city.  The shelling shocked the nationalist defenders since merely a year ago, artillery was still an extremely rare commodity for the communists, yet a year later the communist artillery firepower was greater than that of Japanese during World War II.  Under the cover of intense artillery shelling, the communist 1st Column and 7th Column attacked the defenders from multiple directions.