[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jonny Quest vs. The Cyber Insects

Jonny Quest versus The Cyber Insects (also known as Jonny's Global Impact) is an animated made-for-television film made by Hanna-Barbera. It premiered on November 19, 1995 on TNT, and was the final iteration of the classic Jonny Quest franchise. The film was a follow-up to the series The New Adventures of Jonny Quest  (1986–87), with the same actors voicing Dr. Quest (Don Messick) and Race Bannon (Granville Van Dusen), and was made as part of a "Year of Jonny Quest". This was Don Messick's last time to voice Dr. Quest in the Jonny Quest series. Jonny's original voice actor, Tim Matheson, returned as the voice of 4-DAC. The plot featured "creepy cyberbugs, techno-speak and computer-assisted info wars, all amidst good old-fashioned melodramatic evil." with a teleplay by David Bennett Carren and J. Larry Carroll.

In addition to the original character line-up, this story also features Race's daughter Jessie Bannon, introduced in Jonny's Golden Quest (1993) and voiced once again by Anndi McAfee. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution declared Jessie to be "no 'icky girl'...Not only does she save Jonny's life when disturbingly large fire ants attack, but she also teaches him patience." A test screening of Cyber Insects to 30- to 35-year-old males revealed that though some questioned her addition, most "understood that just like the [original] series, [the update] is a reflection of its times." The Hollywood Reporter's critic enjoyed some sparkling moments of dialogue in the teleplay, but criticized the film's pacing and the repetitiveness of the "overwrought emotional atmosphere" created by the threatened destruction of civilization. The reviewer remarked that Héctor Elizondo and Jeffrey Tambor stole the show with "inimitable style" in voice acting, while animation directors Marlene May and Ron Myrick "brilliantly created two visually intense worlds" with "fantastic" animation.  The film is dedicated to the memory of Doug Wildey, the creator of Jonny Quest, who died in 1994 (one year after the USA Network premiere of Jonny's Golden Quest).

Plot
Jonny Quest and Hadji Singh are fleeing from a seemingly hostile tribe of natives in the Orinoco in South America. After evading both the tribe and various jungle predators, including some ferocious alligators, the two enter a native village. Their goal is to steal a sacred sapphire, seemingly unguarded. Hadji points out that it is too easy, but Jonny impulsively attempts to take the jewel, and the two boys are taken prisoner by the tribe who have lain in wait. At this point, Chief Atacama appears along with Jonny's father Dr. Benton Quest, Race Bannon and the Quests' dog, Bandit, revealing the entire thing to have been an Orinoquian test of manhood. One which Jonny has failed.

Later, Jonny confides in Chief Atacama, who reveals he failed because he didn't listen to his friend, Hadji. Jonny reveals he is uncertain he can measure up his world-famous scientist father, and Atacama tells him if he follows the correct path he will attain his goal. Suddenly a violent storm rocks the region. Dr. Quest is contacted by Commander Harris from the organization Intelligence 1, who reveals the bizarre weather is happening all over Earth and seeks his assistance in discovering its origin. The Quests return to their South American base where Race's daughter Jessie rubs Jonny the wrong way due to his failing the Orinoquian test. Jonny's personal robot 4-DAC, is also introduced. 4-DAC assists Quest in determining the origin of the storms is somewhere in space, likely a satellite of some sort.

Armed with this information, Benton opts to go and visit his colleague Dr. Eve Belage, who works on Quest Station, a research platform in Earth's orbit. He takes 4-DAC with him. Out in the jungle, a ship crashlands and disgorges a group of cybernetic insects, who use a sonic device of some kind to induce a swarm of ants to attack the Quest compound in an effort to prevent Benton's ship, Quest Shuttle 1, from launching. However Jonny plays a recording of Chief Atacama's flute music, which drives the ants off, and Quest Shuttle 1 launches without incident. Benton and 4-DAC arrive and meet with Eve, who gives them a tour of the station, which Benton helped create and fund.