[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Leona Woods

a strong advocate of food irradiation as a means of killing off harmful bacteria, and advocated that legal and regulatory restrictions on its use be relaxed. She proposed that, instead of it being sprayed with malathion, fruit affected by the Mediterranean fruit fly could be treated with gamma rays.

She was a prolific author, publishing over 200 scientific papers.  While at RAND she wrote a paper on Creation of an Atmosphere for the Moon (1969). Her works include the autobiographical  (1979), a history of early atomic research. After Libby died in 1980, she edited his papers with Rainer Berger, and published The Life Work of Nobel Laureate Willard Libby (1982). Her last paper, on quasi-stellar objects, appeared in 1984.

She died at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica, California, on November 10, 1986, from an anesthesia-induced stroke. She was survived by her sons Peter and John, and four grandchildren. She also had two stepdaughters, Janet Eva Libby and Susan Charlotte Libby from her second marriage.

Selected bibliography 

 Libby, L., M. (1969) Creation of an atmosphere for the moon. Rand Corporation. 
 Libby, L., M. (1970) Fifty environmental problems of timely importance. Rand Corporation. 
 Libby, L., M. (1979) The Uranium People. Crane, Russak. 
 Libby, L., M. (1980) The upside down cosmology and the lack of solar neutrinos. 
 Libby, L., M. (1982) Life Work of Nobel Laureate Willard Frank Libby. 
 Libby, L., M. (1982) Carbon Dioxide and Climate. Pergamon.
 Libby, L., M. (1983) Past Climates: Tree Thermometers, Commodities, and People. Texas: University of Texas.

Notes

References

External links 
Leona Marshall Libby's Interview (Oral History), Voices of the Manhattan Project
Leona Marshall Libby's Interview (Podcast interpretation), Spanish Translation of her Voices of the Manhattan Project interview for Voces de Ciencia en Femenino (Ciencia literata) By Ciencia literata (Isabel del Río)
Women in the Manhattan Project
Spring, Kelly. "Leona Libby". National Women's History Museum. 2017.

1919 births
1986 deaths
People from LaGrange, Indiana
University of Chicago alumni
American nuclear physicists
Manhattan Project people
American women physicists
20th-century American physicists
20th-century American women scientists
20th-century American women writers
Women nuclear physicists
Fellows of the American Physical Society
Women on the Manhattan Project