[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Title 18 of the United States Code

g against a federal official by threatening or injuring a family member
 : Female genital mutilation to minors
 : Domestic assault by an habitual offender
 Assault on a federal process server is treated under Chapter 73 of Title 18, Section 1501.

: Bankruptcy

: Biological weapons

Chapters 11–123 

: Bribery, graft, and conflicts of interest
: Child support
: Chemical weapons
: Civil disorders
: Civil rights
Chapter 14 was repealed in 2002. It related to the former (Panama) Canal Zone.
: Claims and services in matters affecting government
Sections 285-292 apply
Sections 281-284 and 293 have been repealed
: Coins and currency
: Common carrier under the influence of alcohol or drugs
: Congressional, Cabinet, and Supreme Court assassination, kidnapping, and assault
: Conspiracy
 defines conspiracy against the United States.
: Contempts
: Contracts
: Counterfeiting and forgery
: Criminal street gangs
: Customs
: Elections and political activities
: Embezzlement and theft
: Emblems, insignia, and names
 deals with flag desecration.
 prohibits the unauthorized manufacture, sale, or possession of official badges, identification cards or other insignia.
 prohibits the unauthorized wear of the uniforms of the armed forces and Public Health Service, or of imitations.
 likewise prohibits the unauthorized wear of uniforms of foreign friendly nations with "intent to deceive or mislead".
 prohibits the unauthorized wear, manufacture, or sale of awards and decorations of the United States military, with special provisions increasing the penalty if the award is the Medal of Honor,
: Escape and rescue
: Espionage and censorship
 § 791. Repealed. Pub. L. 87–369, § 1, Oct. 4, 1961, 75 Stat. 795
 prohibits harboring or concealing persons
 targets gathering, transmitting or losing defense information
 targets gathering or delivering defense information to aid foreign government(s)
 targets photographing and sketching defense installations
 targets use of aircraft for photographing defense installations
 targets publication and sale of photographs of defense installations
 targets disclosure of classified information
 defines temporary extension of section 794
 targets violation of regulations of National Aeronautics and Space Administration
: Explosives and other dangerous articles
: Importation, manufacture, distribution and storage of explosive materials
: Extortion and threats (including threats against the President of the United States)
: Extortionate credit transactions
: False personation
: Firearms
 defines various terms as used in §§ 921–931, which are also found in the definition of aggravated felony. 
 prohibiting certain behavior involving firearms (e.g. 18 U.S. Code § 922(g), declaring it unlawful for a prohibited person to ship, transport, or possess a firearm)