[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hillbilly Highway

ss, "mine wars" erupted, strikes that turned into deadly battles when the company tried to protect strikebreakers, including in Matewan, West Virginia on May 19, 1920. The unionization of the Appalachian coal mines is a long, complex story, spanning decades.

The decline of mining and the move north

Given the instability of coal prices, particularly after World War I ended, and the ongoing union fights, many miners chose to leave the industry and migrate north for jobs. This resulted in the economic exploitation of coal workers which is a period from 1880 to 1930 called the "Coal Wars". One of the most notable events during the coal wars was the Battle of Blair Mountain. This battle came to be known as the largest labor uprising in the United States history as well as being the largest armed uprising since the Civil War. This tragic event lead to upwards of 100 people being killed while many more were arrested. With the added friction in coal mining, and prohibition taking full effect, many so called mountain people carried on selling moonshine since that was one of the prime sources of income at the time. Though this trend would start to slowdown due to the increasing interest of the government to go after these people since it was after all illegal. Factories like General Motors started recruiting people after World War II, causing around seven million people to migrate North. Whites tended to go to areas in Ohio and Pittsburgh, while African-Americans tended to go to areas in Detroit and Baltimore.

Appalachian migration

As much so as coal mining, migration has been an important part of the Appalachian experience. Large numbers of people migrated out of Appalachia in the 20th century for economic reasons.  Between 1910 and 1960, millions of Southerners left their home states of Tennessee, Kentucky, the Carolinas, Virginia and West Virginia.  A large percentage of those leaving Kentucky, West Virginia, and Tennessee went north for jobs in the industrial sector.

Many West Virginians and Kentuckians migrated to the industrial cities of Ohio, for jobs in rubber and steel.  Industrial towns in Southern Ohio, including Dayton and Cincinnati, were favorites for migrants from Eastern Kentucky because they remained close to home.  Some Ohio companies (including Champion Paper Company, Lorillard Tobacco Company, and Armco Steel) reportedly recruited their labor force from specific counties in the mountains, and gave preference to employees' family members when hiring new workers, making out-migration from rural Appalachia easier.

Detroit

In a 1935 article in The Nation, Louis Adamic writes that the "hill-billies" were believed by Detroit auto manufacturing employers to be "safe" – that is, not inclined to unionize.   Adamic reports that auto companies were recruiting during the early '30s with the belief that these rural people had not been influenced by ideas of unionism.  The article goes on to report that the hill-billies were looked down upon by almost everyone, due to their extremely low standard of living and lack of familiarity with modern plumbing, and because they were seen as taking away jobs from the old-time automotive workers. The advent of assembly lines meant that unskilled workers could ably perform tasks at manufacturing plants, so these unskilled mountain folk were adequate employees.

Migrant identity