[Source: PubMed]

21. BMC Public Health. 2024 Mar 1;24(1):662. doi: 10.1186/s12889-024-18096-7.

Working conditions and mental health of migrants and refugees in Europe 
considering cultural origin- a systematic review.

Herold R(#)(1), Lieb M(2), Borho A(2), Voss A(3), Unverzagt S(4), Morawa E(2), 
Rothermund E(5), Erim Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, University Hospital 
of Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, 
Germany. regina.herold@uk-erlangen.de.
(2)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, University Hospital 
of Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, 
Germany.
(3)Institute and Outpatient Clinic of Occupational, Social, and Environmental 
Medicine, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany.
(4)Center of Health Sciences, Institute of General Practice and Family Medicine, 
Martin-Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg, Halle, Germany.
(5)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, Ulm University 
Medical Center, Ulm, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Migrants and refugees/asylum seekers, as a large part of the 
European work force, are often confronted with unfavorable working conditions in 
the host country. Main aim of this systematic review was to compare the 
association of these working conditions with mental health between migrants and 
refugees/asylum seekers due to their diverse migration experiences and cultural 
origins, and between different European host countries.
METHODS: Systematic search for eligible primary studies was conducted in three 
electronic databases (PubMed/MEDLINE, PsycINFO and CINAHL) using quantitative 
study designs written in English, German, French, Italian, Polish, Spanish or 
Turkish and published from January 1, 2016 to October 27, 2022. Primary health 
outcomes were diagnosed psychiatric and psychological disorders, suicide and 
suicide attempts, psychiatric and psychological symptoms, and perceived 
distress. Secondary health outcomes were more general concepts of mental health 
such as well-being, life satisfaction and quality of life. Two reviewers 
independently completed screening, data extraction and the methodological 
quality assessment of primary studies using the Newcastle-Ottawa-Scale. 
Descriptive summary of primary studies on working conditions and their 
relationship with mental health were conducted, comparing migrants and 
refugees/asylum seekers, migrants and refugees/asylum seekers of different 
cultural backgrounds (collectivistic and individualistic) and migrants and 
refugees/asylum seekers living in different host countries.
RESULTS: Inclusion criteria were met by 19 primary studies. Voluntary migrants 
are more likely to experience overqualification in the host country than 
refugees. In all examined host countries, migrants and refugees suffer from 
unfavorable working conditions, with migrants from collectivistic countries 
being slightly at risk compared to migrants from individualistic countries. Most 
unfavorable working conditions are related to poor mental health, regardless of 
migrant status, cultural origin or host country.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the results should be interpreted with caution due to the 
small number of studies, it is evident that to maintain both the mental health 
and labor force of migrants and refugees/asylum seekers, their working 
conditions in host countries should be controlled and improved. Special 
attention should be paid to specific subgroups such as migrants from 
collectivistic societies.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This systematic review is excluded from ethical 
approval because it used previously approved published data from primary 
studies.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42021244840.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-024-18096-7
PMCID: PMC10908099
PMID: 38429674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.