[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Connected (Ayumi Hamasaki song)

ich included several remixes and alternate versions of the song. Hamasaki continued to release singles (all of them remixes of previously released songs) in Germany on Drizzly until 2005. "Connected" was her last single released from her I Am... album and was released after her 2002 single "Voyage".

"Connected" received favorable reception from most music critics. Jeff from Random.Access gave the song a positive comment, stating "It's pretty good, but only because I like trance music and Ferry Corsten's music too. This was composed prior to Corsten's electro days, so you can only expect pure trance [...]" Jeff had also selected "Connected" as the best track and "Choice Cut" from the parent album. Yolanda from the online publication Music Addiction was positive towards the track, stating "In fact, I think I actually like this song more than I am… already, and it may turn out to be one of the best songs on this album [...]" Although she felt she favored the song particularly due to Yolanda's influence in Hamasaki's "rock music", she felt the song was too short and was a letdown because off it. However, a reviewer from the publication Sputnikmusic was negative towards the song, felling it lacked progression and criticized her vocals for being too high pitched.

Music video

The music video was directed by Kouji Morimoto and the key animation direction was handled by Shinya Ohira.Studio 4 °C. had handled the production off the video and was created by them. The video is shot in anime inspired themes and features people in a futuristic city ("Cyberpunk"). It then features the city destroying other parts of the city, while mysterious space orbs create new buildings and the people watch upon the cities growing.

Live performances 
The song was first performed by Hamasaki at her New Year's Eve concert Countdown Live 2001-2002. In 2014, she performed a slightly rearranged version of the song on her Premium Showcase: Feel the Love tour in Nagoya, Osaka and Tokyo. This was the first time in 13 years that the song was performed live.

Charts

Weekly charts

Track listing 
German CD single
 "Connected" (Radio Edit) (3:23)
 "Connected" (Talla 2XLC Radio Edit) (3:51)
 "Connected" (Push Radio Edit) (4:42)
 "Connected" (Talla 2XLC Instrumental Remix) (7:06)
 "Connected" (Push Instrumental Dub Remix) (8:09)
 "Connected" (Long Instrumental) (5:50)
 "Connected" (Ambient Mix) (5:23)

Belgian CD single
 "Connected" (Radio Edit) (3:18)
 "Connected" (Push Radio Edit) (4:40)
 "Connected" (Ambient Mix) (5:20)
German vinyl 
 "Connected" (Push's Instrumental Dub Remix)
 "Connected" (Ferry Corsten Extended 12" Mix)
 "Connected" (Ferry Corsten Instrumental Mix)
 "Connected" (Push Club Mix)

Belgian vinyl
 "Connected" (Extended Ferry Corsten Remix)
 "Connected" (Ambient Mix)
 "Connected" (Push Club Mix)
 "Connected" (Push Instrumental Dub)

Notes

References

Ayumi Hamasaki songs
Songs written by Ayumi Hamasaki
2003 singles
2003 songs
Songs written by Ferry Corsten
Avex Trax singles