[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Australian Hydrographic Service

ons in the South West Pacific Area. As well as updating navigational charts, RAN survey ships were also used to inspect and clear sites for amphibious landings. By the end of the war, sixteen vessels were attached to the Hydrographic Service, including the frigate  and five Bathurst-class corvettes.

In 1946, the Australian Cabinet decided that the RAN would remain in control of all hydrographic operations in both Australian waters and areas of Australian interest. RAN warships were used to survey waters around Australia as part of a national hydrographic survey. In 1947, the Antarctic exploration ship  was commissioned, but only one voyage was completed, and RAN hydrographic operations in the Antarctic were stopped in 1948. In 1963, a resource and export boom required the Hydrographic Service to change its focus from a comprehensive national survey to the charting of new ports and shipping routes suitable for deep-draught merchant ships. A purpose-built survey ship,  entered service in 1964. Survey of ports and shipping routes was completed by 1974. From 1979 onwards, the Hydrographic Service began to provide hydrographic assistance and training to Pacific island nations. During 1989 and 1990, four  survey ships entered service with the RAN, followed by two larger  ships in 1999. In 1993, the RAN began to use Laser Airborne Depth Sounder (LADS) technology to assist in surveying: this was first fitted to a Fokker F27 aircraft, then in 2010 was installed in a De Havilland Dash 8, operated by the Laser Airborne Depth Sounder Flight.

Units
As of 2011, the following units and equipment are assigned to the AHS:
 The Australian Hydrographic Office, located in Wollongong, New South Wales. Was opened in 1994, and has a staff of 120 mixed civilian and military personnel.
 Two s
 
 
 Four es
 
 
 
 
 Laser Airborne Depth Sounder Flight RAN – One LADS-equipped De Havilland Dash 8

See also
 Australian Pilot
 Land Information New Zealand
 United States Office of Coast Survey

Citations

References

Royal Australian Navy
National hydrographic offices
Wollongong