[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Shakaar

"Shakaar" is the 70th episode of the science fiction television series Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, the 24th episode of the third season. It was first broadcast on May 22, 1995.

Set in the 24th century, the series follows the adventures of the crew of the space station Deep Space Nine near the planet Bajor, as the Bajorans recover from a brutal, decades-long occupation by the imperialistic Cardassians. This episode highlights the political development of Bajor and the character development of Bajoran lead character Kira Nerys, especially her moving on from her romance with Vedek Bareil, who died earlier in the third season. Guest star Duncan Regehr plays Bajoran farmer-turned-politician Shakaar.

Nielsen ratings for "Shakaar" registered 7.1 points with a rank of 4.

Plot
When the First Minister of the Bajoran Provisional Government dies, contriving religious leader Kai Winn is appointed to his position on an interim basis and is likely to be formally elected to the office. Later, Winn approaches Major Kira with a special request. A group of farmers in Kira's home province refuse to return some soil reclamators that Winn needs for Bajor's recovery efforts in Rakantha Province. Their leader, Shakaar, also led Kira's resistance cell during the Occupation, so Winn wants Kira to convince him to return the equipment. Kira is reluctant to confront her friend and mentor but agrees to do it for the good of Bajor.

Kira visits Shakaar, who tells her he only received the reclamators two months before, and was told that he and his fellow farmers (also former members of his resistance cell) would have their use for a year. But when Winn took over, they were ordered to return them immediately. Since the Rakantha project is geared toward farming products for export, while Shakaar's farmers are trying to feed their people, he sees his project as far more important. Kira encourages him to meet with Winn, hoping they can compromise.

Winn tells Kira she agrees to the meeting, but sends security officers to arrest Shakaar. Infuriated that Winn lied, Kira helps subdue the officers and escapes with Shakaar.

Now fugitives, Shakaar, Kira, and their comrades hide in the mountains where they once eluded the Cardassians. Weeks later, as the militia closes in, Shakaar's exhausted group realizes there is no option but to stop running and fight. They lead their pursuers into a canyon to set up an ambush.

Hiding in the canyon, Shakaar and Kira watch as the Bajoran troops enter their trap. But as they see the faces of their "enemies", the realization hits that they will be shooting former comrades-in-arms. Unwilling to do this, Kira and Shakaar drop their weapons and, after a brief conversation with the leader, Colonel Lenaris, a cease-fire is called. Later, Shakaar informs Winn that he has decided to enter the election for First Minister. Realizing a competitive election against the popular Shakaar will expose how Winn's actions brought Bajor to the brink of civil war, Winn decides to step down from the race.

In a side plot back on Deep Space Nine, O'Brien records an incredible winning streak at darts; his streak ends when he leans backwards for a drink and severely injures his shoulder during a match.

Reception 
Zack Handlen of The A.V. Club was pleased to see a good Kira episode, he sees it as a welcome throwback to earlier seasons and remains fascinated by post-occupation Bajoran politics. His only criticism was of the pacing and that the conflict was too easily resolved.

In 2018, SyFy recommend this episode for its abbreviated watch guide for the Bajoran character Kira Nerys. They note this episode for focusing on Kira's past story and also her relationship with the character Shakaar.

Releases 
This episode was released on VHS video tape paired with "Family Business" by Paramount Home Video.

This episode was released on October 2, 1998 in Japan as part of the half-season LaserDisc box set 3rd Season vol.2. The format included both English and Japanese audio tracks, as well as Japanese captions.

The episode was released on June 3, 2003 in North America as part of the season 3 DVD box set.

References

External links
 
 
 

Star Trek: Deep Space Nine (season 3) episodes
1995 American television episodes
Television episodes about elections