[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Franklin Gardner

Franklin Kitchell Gardner (January 29, 1823 – April 29, 1873) was a Confederate major general in the American Civil War, noted for his service at the Siege of Port Hudson on the Mississippi River. Gardner built extensive fortifications at this important garrison, 16,000 strong at its peak. At the mercy of conflicting orders, he found himself besieged and greatly outnumbered. His achievement at holding out for 47 days and inflicting severe losses on the enemy before surrendering has been praised by military historians.

Early life
Gardner was born in New York City to Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Kitchell Gardner (1787–1869) and Anne Eliza McLean Gardner (1801–1880). Charles Kitchell Gardner was son of a Revolutionary War hero. His mother was from Louisiana, where she was a member of a wealthy plantation-owning family. He attended the United States Military Academy from 1838 to 1843, being appointed by the State of Iowa, and distinguishing himself as the class's top Drawing student during the whole time. With mixed grades, his class rank was lowered by a fairly high number of demerits. He graduated 17th out of a class of 39. Among his classmates were Ulysses S. Grant, Rufus Ingalls, and Samuel G. French.

He married Marie Celeste Mouton, the daughter of Louisiana Governor Alexander Mouton, shortly thereafter. His wife's brother, Alfred Mouton, also became a prominent Confederate general. Gardner's older sister became the second wife of his wife's father, cementing the ties between the two families.

Early military career
Upon graduation he was assigned as a second lieutenant in the 7th Infantry. Serving first in Pensacola, Florida, he served in the Mexican–American War, first under Major General Zachary Taylor, then under Major General Winfield Scott. At the Battle of Monterrey in September 1846, he received a brevet appointment to first lieutenant for bravery. He later served at the siege of Vera Cruz, Churubusco, and Molino del Rey. For bravery in these later battles, he was brevetted once again to captain. In 1847 he was assigned as regimental adjutant, a position he held until 1853.

He served in various posts throughout the United States: in New York, Florida, Missouri, Arkansas, Pennsylvania and the Pacific Northwest. He received a promotion to full Captain in the 10th U.S. Infantry in March 1855, and served in the Utah War. Following a two-year leave of absence from 1858 to 1860, he was again stationed in Utah, but left for the south in 1861, and was dropped from the Army rolls. Siding with his wife's family, and his mother's, he returned to their home in Louisiana, where he joined the Confederate States Army.

Civil War

Early war service
Initially commissioned a lieutenant colonel of Infantry, Gardner was soon reassigned as captain and adjutant-general to Brigadier General Early. In March 1862 Gardner was assigned a brigade of cavalry in the Army of Mississippi and served in the Battle of Shiloh in April 1862. His brigade being away from the battle, he served as a volunteer aide on the staff of Braxton Bragg. Promoted to brigadier general on April 11, 1862, he was named Chief of Cavalry by General P.G.T. Beauregard and fought in the Battle of Perryville. Afterwards, he was given command of a brigade of Alabamians in Withers' division of Lieutenant General Leonidas Polk's Corps. His command of the 19th, 22nd, 25th, 26th and 39th Alabama Infantry Regiments, as well as the 1st Louisiana Regulars, did not last long. On December 13, 1862, he was promoted to major general and assigned command of the fortifications at Port Hudson north of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, where he replaced Brigadier General William N.R. Beall, who remained at Port Hudson under Gardner's command.

Port Hudson

Port Hudson, Louisiana was strategically important, as it was at a bend in the Mississippi River, from which its guns could control passage north on the River. Union Major General Nathaniel P. Banks and his 30,000-man Army of the Gulf were deployed in New Orleans and surrounding areas, and it was generally expected that he would at some time attempt to capture Port Hudson. At the time, the whole stretch of the Mississippi from Port Hudson north  (as the river flowed) to Vicksburg, Mississippi was controlled by the Confederacy. Lieutenant General John C. Pemberton, who commanded Confederate troops at Vicksburg, was Gardner's immediate superior, and General Joseph E. Johnston, headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi, was Pemberton's superior. Johnston did not control an army, however, and Gardner would soon be subjected to contradictory commands from Johnston and Pemberton.