[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Randall Auxier

hilosophy, metaphysics, moral philosophy, theology, political theory, and philosophy of education. He has been awarded the Jacobsen Prize in Process Metaphysics from the International Society for Universalism and the Douglas Greenlee Prize from the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy.

Metaphysics and formal philosophy 
Auxier defends a version of process-relational metaphysics called “analogical realism.” Built from his theory of analogy first articulated in his 1992 dissertation, he argues that the language of metaphysics should be divided into operational language and functional language. The former is “semiotic” and the latter “symbolic.” Semiotic metaphysical language is synchronic and derives from a prior act of spatialization in the symbolic domain. Semiotic, operational language analogizes terms by extracting relations between base term pairings that find comparison or contrast in the relations of their analogate pairings (i.e., four-term analogies that reveal relations of relations along three axes). These may be expressed as ordered pairs for some purposes, but the semiotic system of reasoning is non-monotonic and yields to W.V. Quine's critiques of under-determination and radical translation. The mode of reasoning is extensional in semiotics and can be articulated (incompletely) in extensional logics of the sort devised by Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, and Alfred North Whitehead. Symbolic language in metaphysics conveys meaning through three-term analogies in which a single base term is concretely differentiated through concrete, temporal processes. Such processes are brought to language by poetic insight which provide the “basis phenomena” (Cassirer's term) of human experience. These primal symbols are active and uncompletable, corresponding to “ideas” where signs correspond to “concepts,” a distinction drawn from Immanuel Kant's terminology. Symbol creation and symbolic consciousness operates first in mythic and expressive and exclusively social sensus communus. Symbols grow into cultures that increasingly refine themselves through sameness and difference, and symbols are the basis of any concrete, temporal consciousness, including historical consciousness. Auxier holds that symbolic reasoning is expressive, emotive, diachronic, and largely unreflective (capable even of falling below the threshold of conscious thought). Semiotic reasoning, by contrast, is largely reflective, cognitive, representational, and synchronic.

Auxier's theories of actuality, potentiality, and possibility derive from these distinctions. He argues that possibility should be thought of (hypothetically) as uncreated and unaffected by temporal passage. The same constellations of possibilities retain their intensive modes of order regardless of whether one constellation becomes an ingressing collection and informs what is actual. The same order is available, and in part intelligible to human beings, whether they are “might-have-beens” or  “might be's” and are indifferent to actuality. Potency is possibility limited by past actuality and wholly included in the constellations of possibility. Potency is defined as those immanent orderings of possibility not yet eliminated by present actuality. Potency draws its form from those collections of possibility that exemplify constellations whose status relative to actuality is “might-be.” Auxier argues that possibility is immediately experienced by human beings, and that its form is inferred by means of contrast with the experience of the “egress” of possibility. Actuality is cognized only indirectly.