[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Ascó

Ascó () is a large village in the comarca of Ribera d'Ebre, Catalonia, Spain, on the right bank of the Ebre river at the feet of the Serra de la Fatarella range. The village of Ascó is known for its nuclear power station, and for excellent fishing in the river.

The local economy is based upon agriculture and work at the power station. The local area is studded with groves full of almonds, olives, grapes, and occasionally citrus fruits. It is approximately  from Mequinenza,  from Flix,  from Riba-roja d'Ebre  and  from Gandesa, in the area where the Battle of the Ebro was fought during the Spanish civil war. The terrain is a mixture of flatland, hills, mountains, forests and farmland.

Attractions and amenities 
Ascó has shops, a bank, a post office, a restaurant, several tapas bars, a bakery, pharmacy, news stand, cafés, etc., all within a 3-minute walk from the river bank.  There are also schools, a college, and a railway station on the main line to Valencia, Barcelona, and Zaragoza. It is less than an hour drive from Reus airport and Salou.

The village is built on the side of a hill overlooking the river and has the remains of a ruined castle on its summit. There are cycle paths and walking paths known as Vias Verdes (green ways) which follow the river and which offer views of the Ebro valley.

Fishing 
Zander, carp, catfish, mullet, and bass fishing is available in the river which has easy access and low banks. There are fishing guides who specialise in fishing this area. The fishing is not free and night fishing is banned. A fishing licence for Catalonia is required. Carp fishing is best in winter when the carp form huge shoals. Catfishing is best in summer when the catfish go on huge feeding frenzies. Local catfishing guides at Ascó usually stock bait and tackle.

Demography

Notable people
 Peter Sanz (Ascó, 22 September 1680 - Fuzhou, 26 May 1747) (Catalan: Pere Sans i Jordá, Spanish: Pedro Sans i Jordá) was a Catalan Dominican friar who was sent as a missionary bishop to China.

References

 Panareda Clopés, Josep Maria; Rios Calvet, Jaume; Rabella Vives, Josep Maria (1989). Guia de Catalunya, Barcelona: Caixa de Catalunya.  (Spanish).  (Catalan).

External links

 Official website 
 Government data pages 

Municipalities in Ribera d'Ebre
Populated places in Ribera d'Ebre