[Source: PubMed]

90. J Glob Health. 2025 Nov 14;15:03036. doi: 10.7189/jogh.15.03036.

Strengthening the mpox response: how do we balance pragmatism and equity in 
resource-constrained settings?

Lokossou VK(#)(1), Ogunyemi KO(#)(2)(3), Usman AB(1), Kamdem S(4), Ahanhanzo 
CD(5), Agbla F(1), Aïssi MA(1), Sombié I(1).

Author information:
(1)West African Health Organization, Bobo, Dioulasso, Burkina Faso.
(2)Hubert Department of Global Health, Emory University, Atlanta, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Georgia, Athens, 
USA.
(4)Regional Head Office, USAID/West Africa, Accra, Ghana.
(5)WorldBank/Western and Central Africa, Health, Nutrition, and Population 
Global Practice HAWH3, Cotonou, Benin.
(#)Contributed equally

Mpox, previously neglected as an endemic zoonotic disease in West and Central 
Africa, has become a significant global threat following its second declaration 
as a public health emergency of international concern. With the growing number 
of cases, the region faces several challenges, particularly inadequate 
surveillance and diagnostics, and a lack of vaccine access. Drawing on lessons 
from public health emergency response in the Economic Community of West African 
States region, we aim to inspire a new vision with health emergency preparedness 
and response framework transformed for implementing mpox response to improve 
people's health and strengthen national, regional, and global health security. 
We provide insights into how pragmatism and equity considerations can guide 
short- and long-term overarching strategies and actions to achieve this vision, 
particularly in low-resource settings. We also identify sustained political 
commitments and investments at all levels of health governance as cross-cutting 
imperatives for controlling the outbreak. Specifically, vaccine access 
strategies (phased rollout, community-based distribution models and dose-sparing 
administration) and surveillance and diagnostics strategies (stigma-sensitive 
risk communication and community engagement, increased health workers and 
volunteers' training, and decentralised monitoring and testing) were highlighted 
as critical for optimal control. Based on this, we call for a strengthened mpox 
response that leverages local networks (e.g. community-based organisations, 
non-governmental organisations, and groups caring for men who have sex with men 
(MSM)/sex workers networks), the private sector, and digital solutions. To 
improve the coverage, impact, and sustainability of health and social 
interventions for this response, we emphasise a focus on at-risk populations 
(young children, MSM/sex workers, health workers/volunteers, contacts of cases), 
vulnerable populations (people living with HIV, people on immunosuppressive 
therapy, and pregnant women), and underserved communities (rural areas, 
hard-to-reach locations, and humanitarian settings), alongside a reformed global 
health architecture and strengthened regional and national health systems.

Copyright © 2025 by the Journal of Global Health. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7189/jogh.15.03036
PMCID: PMC12615003
PMID: 41232125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of interest: The authors completed 
the ICJME Disclosure of Interest Form (available upon request from the 
corresponding author) and disclose no relevant interests.