[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shimon Peres Negev Nuclear Research Center

it, killing the pilot, Captain Yoram Harpaz.

Nuclear weapons production 

The full-scale production of nuclear warheads is believed to have commenced by 1966, with the Israel Defense Forces believed to be in possession of up to 13 operational nuclear warheads by 1967.

Mordechai Vanunu revelations 

In 1986, Mordechai Vanunu, a former technician at Dimona, fled to the United Kingdom and revealed to the media details of Israel's nuclear weapons program. He went on to explain the purposes of each building, also revealing a top-secret underground facility directly below the installation. The Mossad, Israel's secret service, sent a female agent named Cheryl Bentov (née Hanin) who lured Vanunu to Italy, where he was arrested by Mossad agents and smuggled to Israel aboard a freighter. An Israeli court then tried him in secret on charges of treason and espionage, and sentenced him to eighteen years imprisonment. At the time of Vanunu's arrest, The Times reported that Israel had material for approximately 20 hydrogen bombs and 200 fission bombs by 1986. In the spring of 2004, Vanunu was released from prison, and placed under several strict restrictions, such as the denial of a passport, freedom of movement limitations and restrictions on communications with the press. Since his release, he has been rearrested and charged multiple times for violations of the terms of his release.

Safety concerns 
Safety concerns about the 55+ year-old reactor have been reported. In 2004, as a preventive measure, Israeli authorities distributed potassium iodide tablets to thousands of residents living nearby, in case of a release of radioactive iodine-131.

Reported attacks 
In January 2012, media reports indicated that the Israel Atomic Energy Commission had decided to temporarily shut down the reactor. The site's vulnerability to attack from Iran was cited as the main reason for the decision. In October and November 2012, it was reported that Hamas had fired rockets at Dimona and/or Negev Nuclear Research Center. In July 2014 Hamas again fired rockets towards the area surrounding the reactor. The facility was not harmed or damaged in any of the attempted strikes. In April 2021 a Syrian surface-to-air missile landed in the vicinity of the place.

Declassified documents 
In April 2016  the U.S. National Security Archive declassified numerous documents from 1960 to 1970, which detail American intelligence opinions relating to Israel's attempts to obfuscate the purpose and details of its nuclear program. American officials involved in discussions with then Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion and other Israeli officials believed the country was providing "untruthful cover" about intentions to build nuclear weapons.

See also 
 IAEA safeguards
 Israel and weapons of mass destruction
 Nuclear weapons and Israel
 Nuclear proliferation
 Soreq Nuclear Research Center
 Dimona Radar Facility

References

Citations

Bibliography 

Books
 

 

 

Journals
 

 

News
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Online sources

External links 
 US Army essay about Israel's nuclear weapons
 The Avner Cohen Collection, A collection of primary sources and interviews at the Nuclear Proliferation International History Project
 FAS's page about the Israeli nuclear program
 History of Israeli Nuclear Program
 Israel Special Weapons Guide
 Independent Thinktank Analysis of Israeli Nuclear Doctrine
 Animated video of the Dimona facility
 Armageddon — about Dimona written by Israelis
 Annotated bibliography for the Dimona nuclear complex from the Alsos Digital Library for Nuclear Issues 

France–Israel relations
Israeli nuclear development
Military nuclear reactors
Nuclear research institutes
Research institutes in Israel
Shimon Peres