[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of United States Marine Corps MOS

arines through their Verification of Military Education and Training (VMET) portal, even when MOSs are merged, deactivated, or deleted from the current NAVMC 1200 bulletin, or from MCTFS.

Note: All listed MOSs are PMOS, unless otherwise specified.

Types of MOSs 
There are three categories of MOSs:

 Occupational Fields 01-79 (Regular OccFlds) – Occupational Fields that contain all types of MOSs related to a specific occupational field.
 80XX (Miscellaneous Requirement MOSs) – These are MOSs that do not fit into a regular OccFld but are used on the Marine Corps Table of Organization (T/O).
 90XX (Reporting MOS) – These MOSs do not exist on the USMC T/O. They are used to meet Department of Navy and Department of Defense reporting requirements.

There are six types of MOSs, divided into primary MOSs and non-primary MOSs. Primary MOSs are of three types:
 Basic MOS – Entry-level MOSs required for entry-level Marines (both officers and enlisted) or others not yet qualified by initial skills training. In addition, when a Reserve Component (RC) Marine transfers to a new unit and does not possess the MOS required for the billet filled, they will be assigned a Basic MOS as Primary MOS until the completion of required formal school training or is otherwise certified to be MOS qualified, and the previous PMOS will be retained but become an Additional MOS. Promotions for enlisted Marines will be based upon their Basic MOS, or if qualified for a PMOS, then upon their PMOS, never on an AMOS.
 Primary MOS (PMOS) – Used to identify the primary skills and knowledge of a Marine. Only enlisted Marines, Warrant Officers, Chief Warrant Officers, and Limited Duty Officers are promoted in their primary MOS. Changes to an Active Component Marine's PMOS without approval from CMC (MM) and changes to a RC Marine's PMOS without approval from CMC (RA) are not authorized. Promotions for enlisted Marines will be based upon their Basic MOS, or if qualified for a PMOS, then upon their PMOS, never on an AMOS.
 Additional MOS (AMOS) – Any existing PMOS awarded to a Marine who already holds a PMOS. Example: after a lateral move to a new job, a Marine's previous PMOS becomes an AMOS and is normally retained in the Marine's service records for historical purposes and manpower management. Marines are not promoted in an AMOS.

There are also three types of non-PMOSs:
 Necessary (NMOS) – A non-PMOS that has a prerequisite of one or more PMOSs. This MOS identifies a particular skill or training that is in addition to a Marine's PMOS, but can only be filled by a Marine with a specific PMOS. When entered as a requirement into the TFSMS, a billet bearing a Necessary MOS must identify a single associated PMOS even if several PMOSs are acceptable prerequisites.
 Free (FMOS) – Non-PMOS that can be filled by any Marine regardless of Primary MOS. A Free MOS requires skill sets unrelated to primary skills.
 Exception (EMOS) – Non-PMOS that is generally a FMOS, but includes exceptions that require a PMOS.

Reporting MOSs and billet designators are special MOSs:
 Reporting MOSs – designated in the 90XX OccFld, but are not found on any USMC T/O as a requirement to fill any billet.  They exist solely to capture skills and training that meet Department of Navy and Department of Defense reporting requirements.
 Billet MOSs (BMOS) – The MOS listed on USMC T/Os for each billet within the organization, usually PMOS, but also NMOS, FMOS, EMOS, or Billet Designators. Some billets will include notes about acceptable alternate MOSs, such as a BMOS of 0402 (Logistics Officer) that notes a 3002 (Supply Officer) is an acceptable staffing substitute for that billet.
 Billet Designators – An FMOS requirement indicator, listed on USMC T/Os as a BMOS that can be filled by any Marine of the appropriate grade that is included in the MOS definition (e.g., MOS 8007 Billet Designator-Unrestricted Ground Officer (I) FMOS). Normally, FMOS as a skill designator cannot be a BMOS in the TFSMS.

Relationship of MOS to promotions 
Officers are selected for promotion for their potential to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the next higher grade based upon past performance as indicated in their official military personnel file. Promotions should not be considered a reward for past performance, but as incentive to excel in the next higher grade. Officers are not strictly promoted based upon their MOS; all MOS carried by an officer are considered during the selection board process.

Enlisted Marines are promoted based upon their Basic MOS, or their PMOS if one has been earned, not their AMOS, FMOS, NMOS, or EMOS, although upon consideration by a selection board for promotion to Staff Sergeant (E-6) and above, the Board Members will be able to view evidence of other MOSs in the service records of the Marine.

01 Personnel & Administration 
Enlisted