[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Anishinaabe clan system

The Anishinaabe, like most Algonquian-speaking groups in North America, base their system of kinship on clans or totems.  The Ojibwe word for clan () was borrowed into English as totem.  The clans, based mainly on animals, were instrumental in traditional occupations, intertribal relations, and marriages.  Today, the clan remains an important part of Anishinaabe identity. Each clan are not allowed to harm their representation animal in any way or form. It is an bad omen if you do so.

Tradition 
The Anishinaabe peoples are divided into a number of , or clans, (singular: ) named mainly for animal totems (or , as an Ojibwe person would say this word in English). In Anishinaabemowin,  means heart.  or clan literally would translate as 'the expression of, or having to do with one's heart'; in other words  refers to the extended family. According to written / oral tradition, the Anishinaabeg spanned the North Eastern Woodlands of Turtle Island (North America). The origins of the Clans where giving to the Getay-Anishinawbeg after the cleansing of the Earth by water. As the memory of people had been wiped clean. Anishinaabe Toodaims: is the social fabric context for politics, kinship, and identity of the Anishinawbeg peoples. 

The meh established "a framework of social organization to give them strength and order" in which each totem represents a core branch of knowledge and responsibility essential to society. Today, seven general totems compose this framework. The crane and the loon are the leadersship, responsible for over-seeing and leading the people. The fish are the scholars and mediators and are responsible for solving disputes between the crane and the loon. The bear are both police and medicine gatherers. The martens are hunters but also warriors as well. The moose are mediators and exemplify peace. Clans are both a means of acquiring and retaining knowledge for the Anishinawbeg. Knowledge gained through experience and interactions with the natural world and other clan members is passed down and built upon through generations.

Traditionally, each band had a highly democratic independent council consisting of leaders of the communities' Families / clans or , with the group often identified by the principal . In meeting others, the traditional greeting among the Ojibwe peoples is "What is your ?" ("") in order to establish a social conduct between the two meeting parties as family. Marriage among members of the same clan is forbidden.

Etymology 
The word  is a dependent noun. When speaking of one own , the Anishinaabe would say  ('my clan(s)'),  ('your ') for addressees and  ('his/her ') for others.

Pedagogy 
The clan system is an integral part of acquiring and retaining knowledge for the Anishinaabe. Each clan contributes a key element to the society and individual members contribute to a clan’s knowledge through experience. During a clan member’s lifetime, they are able to gain knowledge known by the clan; emphasis is placed on personal experience, rather than a strict student-teacher relationship. Although members learn through relationships with other clan members, it is the experience gained as a result of these relationships that allows them to attain knowledge. Throughout a clan member’s life, knowledge they gain that was previously unknown to the clan is added to the clan’s collective knowledge. This knowledge is then passed down to future generations, contributing to the "flow of  (wisdom) that passes from generation to generation".

Despite pressure from the colonial society in Canada and the United States, much Anishinaabe knowledge has survived and continues to be shared and built upon. Alexander Wolfe's Earth Elder 18 Stories: The Pinayzitt Path, Dr. Dan Musqua's The Seven Fires: Teachings of the Bear Clan, and Edward Benton-Banai's The Mishomis Book: The Voice of the Ojibway are a few notable works of Anishinaabe literature. These publications are important carriers of knowledge that pass from the ancestors to future generations.

Clan totems 
There were at least twenty-one Ojibwe totems in all, recorded by William Whipple Warren.  Other recorders, such as John Tanner, list many fewer but with different  types.  For the Potawatomi, at least 15 different totems were recorded.  The clan types today are quite extensive, but usually only a handful of  are found in each of the Anishinaabe communities.  Like any other All Anishinawbeg speaking peoples, the Anishinawbeg clan system served as a system of social weave as well as a means of dividing labour.  The clan groups or phratries are listed below, listing each of the  clans or gentes within their group.  The known Anishinawbeg clans are listed below.