[Source: PubMed]

63. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2006 Oct;1081:90-107. doi: 10.1196/annals.1373.010.

Regional and international approaches on prevention and control of animal 
transboundary and emerging diseases.

Domenech J(1), Lubroth J, Eddi C, Martin V, Roger F.

Author information:
(1)FAO, Rome, Italy. joseph.domenech@fao.org

Transboundary animal diseases pose a serious risk to the world animal 
agriculture and food security and jeopardize international trade. The world has 
been facing devastating economic losses from major outbreaks of transboundary 
animal diseases (TADs) such as foot-and-mouth disease, classical swine fever, 
rinderpest, peste des petits ruminants (PPR), and Rift Valley fever. Lately the 
highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) due to H5N1 virus, has become an 
international crisis as all regions around the world can be considered at risk. 
In the past decades, public health authorities within industrialized countries 
have been faced with an increasing number of food safety issues. The situation 
is equally serious in developing countries. The globalization of food (and feed) 
trade, facilitated by the liberalization of world trade, while offering many 
benefits and opportunities, also represents new risks. The GF-TADs Global 
Secretariat has carried out several regional consultations for the 
identification of priority diseases and best ways for their administration, 
prevention and control. In the questionnaires carried out and through the 
consultative process, it was noted that globally, FMD was ranked as the first 
and foremost priority. Rift Valley fever, and today highly pathogenic avian 
influenza, are defined as major animal diseases which also affect human health. 
PPR and CBPP, a disease which is particularly serious in Africa and finally, 
African swine fever (ASF) and classical swine fever (CSF) are also regionally 
recognised as top priorities on which the Framework is determined to work. The 
FAO philosophy--shared by the OIE--embraces the need to prevent and control TADs 
and emerging diseases at their source, which is most of the time in developing 
countries. Regional and international approaches have to be followed, and the 
FAO and OIE GF-TADs initiative provides the appropriate concepts and objectives 
as well as an organizational framework to link international and regional 
organizations at the service of their countries to better prevent and control 
the risks on animal and human health and the economic impact of TADs and 
emerging animal diseases.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1373.010
PMID: 17135498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]