[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 143]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

nce of his own recent distresses; he therefore pulled a
shilling out of his pocket and gave it to the man, saying, "Here, my
honest friend, here is something to buy your child some food, and I
sincerely wish he may soon recover." "God bless your sweet face!" said
the man; "you are the best friend I have seen this many a day; but for
this kind assistance we might have been all lost." He then, with many
bows and thanks, struck across the common into a different path, and
Tommy went forward, feeling a greater pleasure at this little act of
humanity than he had long been acquainted with among all the fine
acquaintance he had lately contracted.

But he had walked a very little way with these reflections before he met
with a new adventure. A flock of sheep was running, with all the
precipitation which fear could inspire, from the pursuit of a large
dog; and just as Tommy approached, the dog had overtaken a lamb, and
seemed disposed to devour it. Tommy was naturally an enemy to all
cruelty, and therefore, running towards the dog with more alacrity than
prudence, he endeavoured to drive him from his prey; but the animal, who
probably despised the diminutive size of his adversary, after growling a
little while and showing his teeth, when he found that this was not
sufficient to deter him from intermeddling, entirely quitted the sheep,
and making a sudden spring, seized upon the skirt of Tommy's coat, which
he shook with every expression of rage. Tommy behaved with more
intrepidity than could have been expected, for he neither cried out nor
attempted to run, but made his utmost efforts to disengage himself from
his enemy. But, as the contest was so unequal, it is probable he would
have been severely bitten, had not the honest stranger, whom he had
relieved, come running up to his assistance, and seeing the danger of
his benefactor, laid the dog dead at his feet by a furious stroke of his
broadsword.

Tommy, thus delivered from impending danger, expressed his gratitude to
the stranger in the most affectionate manner, and desired him to
accompany him to his father's house, where he and his wearied children
should receive whatever refreshment they wished. He then turned his eyes
to the lamb, which had been the cause of the contest, and lay panting
upon the ground bleeding and wounded, but not to death, and remarked,
with astonishment, upon his fleece the well-known characters of H.S.,
accompanied with a cross. "As I live," said Tommy, "I believe this is
the very lamb which Harry used to be so fond of, and which would
sometimes follow him to Mr Barlow's. I am the luckiest fellow in the
world, to have come in time to deliver him, and now, perhaps, Harry may
forgive me all the ill-usage he has met with." Saying this, he took the
lamb up and kissed it with the greatest tenderness; nay, he would have
even borne it home in his arms had it not been rather too heavy for his
strength; but the honest stranger, with a grateful officiousness,
offered his services, and prevailed on Tommy to let him carry it, while
he delivered his child to the biggest of his brothers.

When Tommy had now arrived within a little distance of his home he met
his father and Mr Barlow, who had left the house to enjoy the morning
air, before breakfast. They were surprised to see him in such an
equipage, for the dirt, which had bespattered him from head to foot,
began to dry in various places, and gave him the appearance of a
farmer's clay-built wall in the act of hardening. But Tommy without
giving them time to make inquiries, ran affectionately up to Mr Barlow,
and taking him by the hand, said, "Oh, sir! here is the luckiest
accident in the world! poor Harry Sandford's favourite lamb would have
been killed by a great mischievous dog, if I had not happened to come by
and save his life!" "And who is this honest man," said Mr Merton, "whom
you have picked up on the common? He seems to be in distress, and his
famished children are scarcely able to drag themselves along."

"Poor man!" answered Tommy, "I am very much obliged to him; for, when I
went to save Harry's lamb, the dog attacked me, and would have hurt me
very much if he had not come to my assistance and killed him with his
great sword. So I have brought him with me that he might refresh himself
with his poor children, one of which has a terrible ague; for I knew,
papa, that though I had not behaved well of late, you would not be
against my doing an act of charity." "I am, on the contrary, very glad,"
said Mr Merton, "to see you have so much gratitude in your temper. But
what is the reason that I see you thus disfigured with dirt? Surely you
must have been riding, and your horse has thrown you? And so it is, for
here is William following with both the horses in a foam."

William at that moment appeared, and, trotting up to his master, began
to make excuses for his own share in the business. "Indeed, sir," said
he, "I did not