[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Israel Religious Action Center

The Israel Religious Action Center (Hebrew: המרכז הרפורמי לדת ומדינה) also known as IRAC,  was established in 1987 as the public and legal advocacy arm of the Israel Movement for Progressive Judaism. It is located in Jerusalem, Israel. IRAC aims to defend equality, social justice, and religious pluralism within Israel, through the Israeli legal system, lobbying and publications. Author Elana Maryles Sztokman calls IRAC "the preeminent civil and human rights organization in Israel," advocating for a broadly inclusive democracy and promoting social justice. Recent campaigns include an effort to ban gender segregation on Israeli public buses, a successful public campaign for the abolition of income guarantees to kollel students, and a lobbying campaign in defense of human rights organizations operating in Israel. Anat Hoffman, currently the executive director of IRAC, is also the director and a founding member of Neshot HaKotel, also known as "Women of the Wall" or WoW, an organization of women who pray at the Western Wall in an egalitarian manner. Rabbi Noa Sattath is director of IRAC. She has completed five years in that role.

Areas of focus
Promote acceptance of religious pluralism in Israel, working to secure equal funding and status for Reform and Conservative movements.
Promote freedom of marriage and equal rights in divorce.
Oppose discrimination against women and gender segregation (see sex segregation).
Oppose racism in Israel, particularly when incited by religious or government representatives.
Secure the rights of converts to Judaism.

Developments

 In 2006 IRAC filed a complaint about racist incitement by Jerusalem rabbis. As a result of the complaint, Shai Nitzan, head of the Special Tasks Division in the State Attorney's Office, ordered a police investigation into possible criminal activity by Rabbi David Batzri and his son, Rabbi Yitzhak Batzri, who in protesting the opening of a mixed Hebrew-Arab school announced that the school was inappropriate because Arabs are "impure" and "donkeys." Attorney Reut Michaeli said IRAC welcomed the investigation in hopes of ending "the improper use that rabbis and others make of the Jewish religion to advance unacceptable, discriminatory and racist views."
 In 2012 IRAC celebrated what Haaretz called "one of its most significant triumphs," when it prevailed in an eight year court battle to have the Israeli government pay the salaries of four non-Orthodox rabbis, "creating a hairline crack in the Orthodox monopoly."
 In 2014, IRAC won its first class-action suit. The Jerusalem District Court agreed that IRAC's client, Kolech could receive damages from Kol baRama, an ultra-Orthodox radio station that prohibits women from participating in its broadcasts or working as employees. Kolech is an Orthodox women's organization.
 In December 2014 the Jerusalem District Court ruled that Chevra Kadisha burial society will no longer be allowed to place signs enforcing gender segregation of men and women at funerals, unless the family of the deceased requests it. The Israel Religious Action Center (IRAC) and the Human Rights Clinic at Tel Aviv University's faculty of law filed a claim against Chevra Kadisha in Rehovot and Jerusalem, claiming it violated the Religious Services Ministry's prohibition on gender segregation in cemeteries. Attorney Orly Erez-Likhovski, head of IRAC's legal department, announced, "This is excellent news. The two Chevra Kadisha companies involved in this affair firmly refused to obey the Ministry of Religious Services director-general's memo which ordered them to remove the signs. This marks the end of discriminating segregation signs in cemeteries." Chevra Kadisha representatives said they were only acting in accordance with rabbinic orders.
 In December 2014 The Times of Israel interviewed Anat Hoffman regarding arson at school that was apparently incited by Lehava and committed by members of the anti-assimilation group. Hoffman said IRAC had filed over 40 complaints "with the attorney general against Lehava and its leaders since 2010, and we only got one serious answer to any of them.” Because of lack of attention to the complaints, IRAC joined other organizations in October 2014 in petitioning the High Court of Justice against the attorney general. The petition asks the attorney general to investigate Lehava, and accuses the group of numerous examples of illegal activity such as promoting housing discrimination against non-Jews and harassing organizations that employ Arabs. The court has allowed the state an extension until January 2015 to file its response.
 In January 2014 the head of IRAC's legal team was quoted in Haaretz about the unsuccessful attempt by the city of Bnei Brak to take down campaign posters that included photos of female candidates. In the city's ultra-Orthodox neighborhoods, women are usually absent from advertisements and billboards because pictures of women are viewed as "sexually provocative". The city's representativ