[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles

her motives in the episode "Born to Run" when she asks Cameron, "Will you join us?" through messenger James Ellison. During the episode "Today Is the Day Part 2" Cameron explains to Jesse Flores that John Connor asked the same question of the T-1001 in an attempt to forge an alliance against Skynet.

Supporting 
 Dean Winters as Charley Dixon:  Charley Dixon, a paramedic, is Sarah's fiancé until she leaves him in the pilot episode and travels eight years forward in time. Although he marries another woman in the interim, during subsequent episodes he builds a friendship with the Connors and renders medical assistance when needed. When his wife is killed in the second season episode "The Mousetrap", he is not seen again until the episode "To The Lighthouse", which reveals that he now lives in a lighthouse, being a safe house that Sarah set up for him, which he has booby trapped and alarmed to protect against further attacks. When the house is invaded by human assassins acting for the apparent proto-Skynet, Charley is killed enabling John Connor to escape.
 Stephanie Jacobsen as Jesse Flores:  Jesse is an Australian resistance sailor and Derek Reese's love interest. In her timeline, she sailed to Australia to deliver supplies aboard the upgraded nuclear submarine , captained by a reprogrammed Terminator, Queeg, of which she is the executive officer. Queeg diverts the submarine to pick up a package and return it to John Connor. Her crew is curious of what is in the package so they open it. Inside is a T-1001 and one of the crew members, a woman, points her gun at it. The T-1001 kills her and takes her form, then shakes its finger at the rest of the crew. Queeg kills a crewman after he beat on Jesse. Jesse does not trust Queeg and so she relieves him of command. Queeg does not obey her orders and so she terminates him and destroys the submarine in an attempt to kill the T-1001. On her way out, she encounters the T-1001 and it tells her, "Tell John Connor 'the answer is no'." In 2007, she is on a self-imposed mission to find and stop Cameron from adversely influencing young John, by recruiting Riley Dawson in the future and bringing her back to frame Cameron for her murder. In the future from which Jesse comes, John has withdrawn from humans and speaks only with Cameron. It is unclear whether this mission is self-appointed, but comments by her and the fact she was able to access the time travel machinery with Riley suggests others in the Resistance leadership group may share her concerns about Cameron's influence on John. John Connor later figures out that Jesse killed Riley and informs Derek, but orders her life to be spared. Derek confronts Jesse. He tells her that they are from two different futures and that he doesn't know who she is. He tells her, "John Connor wanted to let you go. I'm not John Connor." He pulls his gun on her and she takes off running. Whether or not Derek actually kills her is left ambiguous, although he does pull the trigger on his handgun. When asked about it by John he just says, "John Connor let her go." This could either mean that he obeyed John Connor's order or since he is not John Connor, he didn't want to let her go and shot her instead. Later on in a flashback, Cameron is seen talking to Jesse. Cameron tells her that she is sorry for her loss. She says that the pressure from leaving the submarine killed her baby, she was pregnant with Derek's baby. Jesse tells Cameron, "Tell John Connor it said 'The answer is no'" Then, Jesse asks Cameron, "If the answer is no, what was the question?" Cameron answers with "Will you join us?" Cameron tells Derek about the miscarriage and he says he never had any kids.

Production

Conception 
On November 9, 2005, Variety reported that a television series based on the Terminator franchise was being produced by C2 Pictures, which produced Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, in association with Warner Bros. Television. The Fox Broadcasting Company also joined the project by making a commitment to the pilot, with Josh Friedman set to write the pilot and to serve as an executive producer for the series. Among the executive producers were C2 Pictures' Andy Vajna, Mario Kassar and James Middleton.

The series, initially titled The Sarah Connor Chronicles, focuses on the character Sarah Connor who is on the run with her son after the events of Terminator 2: Judgment Day. Regarding the character, Middleton said, "She has the weight of the world on her shoulders and also has to raise a teenage son who may be the salvation of humanity." Friedman commented that the series would contain fewer action sequences due to the smaller budget of television in contrast to feature films.