[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Schofield (footballer)

after winning just two of their first eleven league games in 2013–14, he was sacked on 13 October 2013. Schofield was placed in caretaker charge, before Peter Taylor was appointed interim manager a day later. He remained part of the backroom staff under Taylor, before leaving his role on 6 May 2014.

On 23 June 2014, Schofield was appointed assistant manager at Scunthorpe United. He had played with the club's manager Russ Wilcox at Doncaster whilst the two also completed their coaching badges and pro-licence on the same courses. On 8 October, Schofield and Wilcox were sacked by Scunthorpe, after the team started the 2014–15 season with two wins from eleven matches. On 30 December 2014, he returned to Lincoln City in a voluntary coaching capacity to assistant recently appointed manager Chris Moyses, before resuming his relationship with Wilcox through being appointed his assistant at League Two club York City on 21 May 2015. With York 21st in the table after a nine-match run without a win early in the 2015–16 season, Wilcox and Schofield were sacked on 26 October. On 7 September 2016, Schofield returned to former club Doncaster Rovers as a Senior Professional Development Coach, working with youth players and younger first-team players to bridge the gap between the squads. He trained the first-team in the summer of 2019, before Darren Moore was appointed to the vacant manager role. He later coached at Peterborough United's youth-team.

Northern Ireland U21 
On 26 July 2021, Schofield became the new manager of Northern Ireland under-21 team. He stepped down from the role on 1 February 2023 after Northern Ireland finished third in their group for 2023 UEFA European Under-21 Championship qualification, having won two and drawn one of his ten games in charge.

Return to coaching 
On 18 April 2023, Schofield joined the backroom staff at Port Vale to assist interim manager Andy Crosby – his predecessor as Northern Ireland U21 manager – in steering the club away from the League One relegation zone. Having achieved this aim, he was confirmed as Crosby's assistant manager in June 2023.

Career statistics

Playing

Managerial

Honours
Player

Individual
Lincoln City Player of the Season: 1993–94

Manager

Individual
League Two Manager of the Month: October 2006

References

External links

1965 births
Living people
Footballers from Barnsley
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Huddersfield Town A.F.C. players
Woolley Miners Welfare F.C. players
Shepshed Dynamo F.C. players
Matlock Town F.C. players
Gainsborough Trinity F.C. players
Lincoln City F.C. players
Doncaster Rovers F.C. players
Mansfield Town F.C. players
Hull City A.F.C. players
Northern Counties East Football League players
Southern Football League players
Northern Premier League players
English Football League players
English football managers
Lincoln City F.C. managers
Walsall F.C. managers
Cheltenham Town F.C. managers
Gillingham F.C. managers
English Football League managers
Association football coaches
Lincoln City F.C. non-playing staff
Scunthorpe United F.C. non-playing staff
Walsall F.C. non-playing staff
Cheltenham Town F.C. non-playing staff
Cambridge United F.C. non-playing staff
Notts County F.C. non-playing staff
Gillingham F.C. non-playing staff
York City F.C. non-playing staff
Doncaster Rovers F.C. non-playing staff
Peterborough United F.C. non-playing staff
Port Vale F.C. non-playing staff