[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Frank Luntz

"We have concluded it is inaccurate to call the plan a government takeover."

Leaked tape from the University of Pennsylvania 
On April 25, 2013, The American Spectator, a conservative news outlet, published a scathing article about Luntz entitled "The Problematic Frank Luntz's Stockholm Syndrome".

In fact, what Luntz has done is simply reveal the kind of thinking that goes on in the minds of too many on the right who, whether they realize it or not, have been intellectually and culturally bullied that there is some sort of 'right way'—'right' as in 'correct'—to think. Resulting in some conservatives who suffer from what might be called a political version of Stockholm Syndrome—where the captives identify with their captors.

The article was a response to an April 22, 2013 leaked recording of Luntz at the University of Pennsylvania, where he said conservative radio personalities (specifically Rush Limbaugh and Mark Levin) were being "problematic" and "destroying" Republicans' ability to connect with more voters, or even maintain a majority in the House of Representatives in the 2014 mid-term elections.

As part of his critique Luntz said:

And they get great ratings, and they drive the message, and it's really problematic. And this is not on the Democratic side. It's only on the Republican side. ... [Democrats have] got every other source of news on their side. And so that is a lot of what's driving it. If you take—Marco Rubio's getting his ass kicked. Who's my Rubio fan here? We talked about it. He's getting destroyed! By Mark Levin, by Rush Limbaugh, and a few others. He's trying to find a legitimate, long-term effective solution to immigration that isn't the traditional Republican approach, and talk radio is killing him. That's what's causing this thing underneath. And too many politicians in Washington are playing coy.

After the leak, Luntz announced that he would no longer fund a scholarship to the University of Pennsylvania. The scholarship, which was in his father's name, supported student trips to Washington, D.C.

Bibliography 
 Candidates, Consultants, and Campaigns: The Style and Substance of American Electioneering. New York: Blackwell, 1988.
 Words That Work: It's Not What You Say, It's What People Hear. New York: Hyperion, 2007.
 What Americans Really Want ... Really. New York: Hyperion, 2009.
 Win: The Key Principles to Take Your Business from Ordinary to Extraordinary. New York: Hyperion, 2011.

References

External links 
 

1962 births
20th-century American writers
21st-century American writers
Alumni of the University of Oxford
American political consultants
American public relations people
American statisticians
Connecticut Republicans
Framing theorists
George Washington University faculty
Harvard University faculty
Jewish American writers
Living people
People from West Hartford, Connecticut
Pollsters
University of Pennsylvania alumni
University of Pennsylvania faculty
Writers from Connecticut
Hall High School (Connecticut) alumni