[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HMCS Canada

ng the Halifax Explosion. She suffered minor damage and one crew member was seriously injured. In 1918, Canada was among the Canadian naval vessels used to escort convoys from Quebec City through the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Following the end of the war, HMCS Canada was decommissioned in November 1919.

Queen of Nassau
In 1920, Canada was offered for sale at a price of $25,000. When no one purchased her, she was laid-up in Halifax. In 1921, Canada was offered to the Navy League of Canada for free, but the Navy League could not afford the insurance and other costs associated with the ship, and the offer was declined. After four years of neglect she was sold to Florida Inter Islands Steam Ship Company and then re-sold to Florida real estate entrepreneur Barron Gift Collier Sr. The ship was renamed  Queen of Nassau and pressed into service passenger service between Miami, Florida and Nassau, Bahamas. This was a service for which she was poorly equipped, lacking comfortable overnight accommodations for the island cruise, as well as air conditioning. Passengers rapidly lost interest in the service and once again the ship sat idle and rusting, this time for 18 months in Biscayne Bay.

Collier announced some Mexican investors were interested in purchasing the ship for service in the Gulf of Mexico in June 1926. The ship left Miami in ballast on 30 June 1926 for Tampa, Florida to undergo a final inspection before the sale. After stopping twice in the Straits of Florida due to problems with her boilers, she began taking on water on 2 July 1926. At first her three pumps were enough to keep her afloat but when flooding reached her engine room, the boilers cooled and then failed, leaving no power for the pumps. The 18-person crew abandoned ship and shortly after 7:00 pm the vessel slipped below the waves stern-first in  of water off Islamorada. The site of the wreck is located  south of Miami and roughly  south of Lower Matecumbe Key.

Wreck site
The wreck was located by technical divers in 2001 and rests in  of water off of Islamorada, Florida. In March 2003, the site was the focus of an archaeological investigation by a NOAA team consisting of the Monitor National Marine Sanctuary, East Carolina University, National Undersea Research Center (NURC) at the University of North Carolina at Wilmington and videographer Rick Allen and Kimberly Faulk from Nautilus Productions. Nautilus Productions provided site documentation, documented the archaeological survey and recorded diving activities during the dives. The wreck is encrusted with oysters, as well as sponges, corals, and other invertebrate growth and rests upright on a white, sandy bottom.

Archaeologists are working toward designating the wreck a U.S. National Historic Site because of the significance it holds in the evolution of Canada's military.

Notes

Citations

Bibliography

External links
 Converted civilian vessels
 Queen of Nassau at wrecksite.eu

Patrol vessels of the Canadian Coast Guard
Patrol vessels of the Royal Canadian Navy
1904 ships
Ships built in Barrow-in-Furness
Maritime incidents in 1926
Shipwrecks of the Florida Keys
Underwater archaeological sites
Auxiliary ships of the Royal Canadian Navy
World War I naval ships of Canada