[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lito Atienza

or and took his oath of office on June 24, 1998. Atienza was again re-elected in 2001 and finally in 2004. During his term as mayor, numerous heritage buildings in Manila were demolished, notably the Jai Alai Building, which used to be the best Art Deco building in all of Asia before its demolition.

The Supreme Court ruled on April 17, 2007, that Franklin Drilon was the real president of the Liberal Party and not Atienza and has approved the Daza-Drilon Amendments to the LP's Charter. It also ruled that all certificates of nomination signed by Atienza are worthless unless they moved to another political party like Batangas Governor Armando Sanchez and Manny Pacquiao, who moved to KAMPI, and Mike Defensor, who moved to Lakas-CMD, in February 2007. Voting 9–5, the court said the amended Salonga Constitution extended Drilon's term to November 2007. On July 16, 2007, the Supreme Court dismissed with finality a motion for consideration filed by Atienza (en banc resolution dated July 5, 2007). COMELEC earlier ruled that Drilon's term as LP president has already expired and called for the holding of elections to end the leadership vacuum in the country's oldest political party. The ruling came after the poll body invalidated the so-called "rump elections" of LP leaders in March 2006. On November 26, 2007, at Club Filipino, Greenhills, San Juan, LP National Executive Council officials resolved to appoint Senator Mar Roxas as president of the Liberal Party (Philippines). Corazon Aquino and Jovito Salonga, inter alia, signed the resolution. Roxas is to unite the two LP factions, and set the stage for his presidential campaign in the 2010 election. Atienza, however, questioned Roxas' appointment, attacking the composition of Liberal Party's National Executive Council (NECO) and alleged that the Supreme Court of the Philippines' June 5 resolution ordered the LP leadership's status quo maintenance.

In February 2007, Atienza formally and officially announced that his second son, the Presidential Adviser on Youth Affairs and Manila's Chair of the Inner-City Development Committee, Arnold Atienza, would run for mayor of the city on May 14, 2007. Arnold Atienza lost the mayoralty race to Sen. Alfredo Lim, who was also a former mayor.

Environment Secretary
Atienza, a staunch supporter of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, was named Environment Secretary on July 18, 2007, replacing Angelo Reyes, who was moved to the Department of Energy, after incumbent Raphael Lotilla resigned. Atienza's appointment came as a shock to environmental groups, who had dubbed him as the "butcher of Arroceros." As Manila mayor, Atienza in 2003 enraged environmentalists when he ordered the closure of the Arroceros Forest Park to give way to the building of an education office and a teacher's dormitory, sparking a lawsuit. The Kalikasan People's Network said that Atienza had no moral authority to be at the helm of the DENR because he had "neither had sterling qualifications nor a clean track record of protecting the environment as former Manila Mayor."

2010 mayoralty bid
In 2010, Atienza ran for a comeback as Mayor of Manila under Pwersa ng Masang Pilipino, with Manila 6th district councilor Bonjay Isip-Garcia as his running mate for vice mayor. However, he lost to incumbent Mayor Alfredo Lim, who received 59.52% of the votes.

Representative
In 2013, Atienza became the representative of Buhay Partylist in the House of Representatives. He opposed the divorce bill and tried to oppose the anti-discrimination bill as well, but withdrew after seeing a massive backlash against him. He also opposes the department of culture bill and the civil union bill. Atienza supports the Philippine Drug War, ironic since it is the complete opposite of his party's advocacies. Other moves he supports are the P1,000 budget for the Commission on Human Rights and the re-imposition of the death penalty. He also expressed his intent to campaign for the withdrawal of the reproductive (RH) law that was passed in 2013, or if not possible, he intends to minimize the funding of the law's programs. Atienza also supported the rejection of environment secretary Gina Lopez. Atienza is an investor in the mining industry in the Philippines, and has been blocking the national land use bill since his stint as representative.

2022 vice presidential campaign
On October 1, 2021, Atienza filed his certificate of candidacy for Vice President for 2022 Philippine presidential election under PROMDI together with Senator Manny Pacquiao for President. Atienza underwent knee replacement surgery in February 2022 days after spraining his foot, making him unable to join Pacquiao in his campaign sorties, as well as the vice presidential debates. He lost the race with 270,381 votes, placing 5th behind Davao City Mayor Sara Duterte.