[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# French destroyer Le Fantasque

transferred to  the Azores to hunt for German blockade runners (Operation Stonewall). After the Allied victory during the Battle of the Bay of Biscay on the 28th, the sisters sailed to Gibraltar, but only stayed a few days before returning to the Azores to continue their search for blockade runners.

During the Allied landings at Anzio, Italy, on 22 January, Le Fantasque carried out a diversionary bombardment of Civitavecchia and then bombarded Formia and Terracina the following day. In late February the 10th LCD was tasked to conduct deep raids in the Adriatic in search of German shipping. The first two raids on 27–29 February were unsuccessful, but on the night of 29 February/1 March they encountered a heavily escorted cargo ship. Le Fantasque and Le Malin sank the freighter and heavily damaged the torpedo boat  and a corvette in the Battle of Ist. Further sweeps were fruitless although the cruisers bombarded Zante on the night of 7/8 March. On the night of 18/19 March, Le Fantasque and Le Terrible encountered a German convoy and sank two Siebel ferries and damaged two other ferries. Both cruisers were struck by return fire that wounded eight men aboard Le Fantasque and one crewman on Le Terrible. The ships were refitted and then transferred to Alexandria, Egypt, to conduct patrols south of Crete and in the Aegean in April where they had no engagements other than a bombardment of Kos. Transferred back to the Adriatic in June, Le Fantasque and Le Terrible sank the small oil tanker  on the 17th. During the last raid on the night of 24/25, Le Fantasques port propeller shaft began vibrating which limited her to a speed of . On 15 August, the 10th LCD provided naval gunfire support during Operation Dragoon, the Allied landing in Provence, Le Fantasque firing 280 shells from her main guns. Together with Le Terrible, Le Fantasque escorted Richelieu to Toulon on 1 October.

Postwar activities
Le Fantasque arrived in Saigon, French Indochina, on 27 October 1945 and alternated with Le Triomphant in providing gunfire support to the French garrison at Nha Trang and then supporting French forces on the coast of the Gulf of Tonkin. The sisters participated in a naval review in Ha Long Bay on 24 March 1946. Le Fantasque then made a show the flag cruise to Japan in May–June and departed Saigon for Metropolitan France on 4 July. On 1 January 1947, the 10th LCD was combined with the 4th Division of Cruisers into the Cruiser Group; during this time, only two of the four surviving ships of the class were active at any one time because of a shortage of trained personnel. Le Fantasque was active in March–September before beginning a major refit that lasted until May 1948. She was recommissioned on 12 July and remained on active duty until decommissioned in August 1950. The ship was supposed to begin a refit in Bizerte, French Tunisia, but this was canceled because her condition was too poor and she was placed in the reserve. All of the Le Fantasque-class ships were reclassified as escort destroyers, 1st class () on 1 July 1951 and then as fast escorts () in 1953. Le Fantasque was towed to Saint-Mandrier-sur-Mer in September 1953, stricken from the Navy List that year and scrapped in 1958.

References

References

External links 

 Le Fantasque-Class destroyer 
 CONTRE-TORPILLEURS de classe "Le Fantasque"   
 Le Fantasque - tarrif.net 
 Le Fantasque - uboat.net 
 CoatneyHistory:  Le Fantasque, postwar and digitally altered to 1940 configuration, from U.S. Office of Naval Intelligence recognition manual ONI 200, 1950

Le Fantasque-class destroyers
World War II destroyers of France
World War II cruisers of France
1934 ships