[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Islamic extremism

movements and Islamic terrorists that seek to overthrow secular governments, most notably Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri of al-Qaeda, as well as the Salafi-jihadi terrorist group ISIL/ISIS/IS/Daesh. Moreover, Qutb's books have been frequently been cited by Osama bin Laden and Anwar al-Awlaki.

Sayyid Qutb could be said to have founded the actual movement of radical Islam. Unlike the other Islamic thinkers that have been mentioned above, Qutb was not an apologist. He was a prominent leader of the Muslim Brotherhood and a highly influential Islamist ideologue, and the first to articulate these anathemizing principles in his magnum opus Fī ẓilāl al-Qurʾān (In the shade of the Qurʾān) and his 1966 manifesto Maʿālim fīl-ṭarīq (Milestones), which lead to his execution by the Egyptian government. Other Salafi movements in the Middle East and North Africa and across the Muslim world adopted many of his Islamist principles.

According to Qutb, the Muslim community (Ummah) has been extinct for several centuries and reverted to jahiliyah (the pre-Islamic age of ignorance) because those who call themselves Muslims have failed to follow the sharia law. In order to restore Islam, bring back its days of glory, and free the Muslims from the clasps of ignorance, Qutb proposed the shunning of modern society, establishing a vanguard modeled after the early Muslims, preaching, and bracing oneself for poverty or even death as preparation for jihad against what he perceived as jahili government/society, and overthrow them. Qutbism, the radical Islamist ideology derived from the ideas of Qutb, was denounced by many prominent Muslim scholars as well as other members of the Muslim Brotherhood, like Yusuf al-Qaradawi.



Groups

Foreign political support
According to the British historian  Mark Curtis, in his book Secret Affairs: Britain's Collusion with Radical Islam, Britain has been accused of consistently supporting radical Islam to combat secular nationalism. Because the secular nationalists threatened to seize the resources of their countries and use it for internal development, which was not accepted by England. The United States, like Britain before it, has been accused of historically supporting radical Islam in the face of secular nationalism, seen as a major threat to Western colonial dominance. Chomsky and coauthors accuse Israel of destroying Egypt and Syria in 1967, two bastions of secular Arab nationalism opposed to Saudi Arabia, which they view as the leader of radical Islam.

See also 

 Antisemitism in the Arab world
 Antisemitism in Islam
 Attacks by Islamic extremists in Bangladesh
 Islam and other religions
 Islam and secularism
 Islam and violence
 Islam and war
 Religious violence#Islam
 Holy war in Islam
 Islamic views on slavery
 History of slavery in the Muslim world
 Slavery and religion#Islam
 Slavery in 21st-century jihadism
 Islam Yes, Islamic Party No
 Islamic extremism in Mali
 Islamic extremism in Northern Nigeria
 Islamic extremism in the 20th-century Egypt
 Islamic extremism in the United States
 Islamic terrorism
 Jihadism
 Islamism
 Post-Islamism
 List of Islamist terrorist attacks
 Mujahideen
 Petro-Islam
 Qutbism
 Racism in Muslim communities
 Religious fanaticism in Islam
 Salafi movement
 International propagation of Salafism and Wahhabism (by region)
 Salafi jihadism
 Wahhabism
 Takfirism
 Violent extremism

References

Further reading

External links 
 

 
Islam and politics
Islam-related controversies
Islamic fundamentalism
Islamic practices
Islamism
Political ideologies
Religious extremism