[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# White émigré

ied during the experimentation. When survivors were determined to no longer be useful for experimentation and were complaining of illness, staff told them they would receive a shot of medicine, but instead executed them with potassium cyanide injections. Executions were also carried out by gunshots.

In the Ottoman Empire
Approximately 150,000 White Russians, including princes, princesses, generals and senior officers, fled to the Ottoman Empire in the wake of the Revolution. Istanbul, which had a population of around 900,000 at that time, opened its doors to approximately 150 thousand White Russians. The parties to the war migration in 1917 were neither Crimean Turks nor Caucasian Muslims. This time, those who took refuge in Istanbul were the 'nobles' and soldiers of Tsarist Russia, who had fought the Ottomans for centuries.  The immigration, which started with small groups at the end of 1917, grew with the loss of Crimea to the Bolsheviks in 1920.  Tens of thousands of people who left their titles, money and palaces in Russia and came to Istanbul tried to hold on to life by dispersing all over the city. Some sold books, some handcrafted souvenirs and some flowers. The place, formerly known as Hristaki Passage, became known as Çiçek Pasajı after the Russian flower girls took up residence. Those who arrived in 1919 were better off economically. The first arrivals found some jobs in the French and British representations, commissions, or alongside them in civil service, translator, or even military or security units in Istanbul.

In the Philippines
From 1949 to 1951, the Philippines under President Elpidio Quirino admitted 6,000 White Russians fleeing from China after the communist People's Republic of China was proclaimed in the region. They settled in Tubabao island in Guiuan, Samar.

Notable "first-wave" émigrés
Political and religious figures

Military figures

Historians and philosophers

The arts

Scientists and inventors

Other figures

White émigré organizations and entities
Orthodox Church jurisdictions:
Orthodox Church in America (АПЦ, Митрополия) – not entirely founded by White émigrés but includes a significant percentage of émigré parishes.
Patriarchal Exarchate for Orthodox Parishes of Russian Tradition in Western Europe (Парижский Экзархат)
Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia (РПЦЗ, Зарубежная Церковь)

Military and paramilitary organizations:
Russian All-Military Union (the oldest organization representing the White Government in exile)
Inner Line
Russian Liberation Movement
Russian Liberation Army
Committee for the Liberation of the Peoples of Russia
Russian Corps Combatants (Союз Чинов Русского Корпуса)
Association of Cadets (Объединение Кадет Российских Корпусов за Рубежом)
Don Cossack Host
Kuban Cossack Host
Terek Cossack Host
Brotherhood of Russian Truth
Shanghai Volunteer Corps

Political organizations:
Russian Imperial Union-Order (the oldest organization representing the monarchist White Russians)
Constitutional Democratic Party
Union of October 17
Socialist Revolutionary Party
Russian Social Democratic Labor Party
Mensheviks
Congress of Russian Americans
High Monarchist Union (Высший Монархический Совет)
Mladorossi
National Alliance of Russian Solidarists (НТС)
Russian All National Popular State Movement (РОНДД)
Union for the Struggle for the Liberation of the Peoples of Russia (СБОНР): founded by "second wave" émigrés, but also included many White émigrés.
Smenovekhovtsy
All-Russian Fascist Organization
Russian Fascist Organization
Russian Fascist Party
Russian Women's Fascist Movement

Youth organizations:
National Organization of Rangers (or "Knights") (НОВ, Витязи)
National Association of Russian Explorers (НОРР)
National Organization of Russian Scouts (НОРС)
Organization of Russian Young Pathfinders (ОРЮР)
Russian Fascist Party
Fascist Union of Youth
Union of Young Fascists – Vanguard (boys)
Union of Young Fascists – Vanguard (girls)
Union of Fascist Little Ones
Orthodox Organization of Russian Pathfinders (ПОРР)
Russian Christian Students Movement (РСХД)
Russian Sokol (Русский Сокол)
VSHSON

Charitable organizations:
Russian Nobility Association in America
Society for the Relief of Czarist Exiles
The Tolstoy Foundation

Soviet front organizations:
Union for repatriation of Russians abroad

See also 
 Belarusians in Chicago

References