[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 86]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

is soldiers, he could not help scoffing at their poverty, and
making comparisons between their mean appearance and his own
magnificence. All that were with him seemed to be infinitely diverted
with the wit and acute remarks of their general, except a single person,
who had served in the Grecian armies, and therefore was better
acquainted with the manners and discipline of these people. This man was
highly valued by Pharnabazus for his understanding and honesty, and,
therefore, when he observed that he said nothing, he insisted upon his
declaring his sentiments, as the rest had done. 'Since, then,' replied
he, 'you command me to speak my opinion, O Pharnabazus, I must confess
that the very circumstance which is the cause of so much mirth to the
gentlemen that accompany you is the reason of my fears. On our side,
indeed, I see gold, and jewels, and purple, in abundance, but when I
look for men, I can find nothing but barbers, cooks, confectioners,
fiddlers, dancers, and everything that is most unmanly and unfit for
war; on the Grecian side, I discern none of the costly trifles, but I
see iron that forms their weapons, and composes impenetrable arms. I see
men who have been brought up to despise every hardship, and face every
danger; who are accustomed to observe their ranks, to obey their leader,
to take every advantage of their enemy, and to fall dead in their
places, rather than to turn their backs. Were the contest about who
should dress a dinner, or curl hair with the greatest nicety, I should
not doubt that the Persians would gain the advantage; but when it is
necessary to contend in battle, where the prize is won by hardiness and
valour, I cannot help dreading men, who are inured to wounds, and
labours, and suffering; nor can I ever think that the Persian gold will
be able to resist the Grecian iron.'

"Pharnabazus was so struck with the truth and justness of these remarks,
that, from that very hour he determined to contend no more with such
invincible troops, but bent all his care towards making peace with the
Spartans, by which means he preserved himself and country from
destruction."

"You see by this story," said Mr Barlow, "that fine clothes are not
always of the consequence you imagine, since they are not able to give
their wearers either more strength or courage than they had before, nor
to preserve them from the attacks of those whose appearance is more
homely. But since you are so little acquainted with the business of a
soldier, I must show you a little more clearly in what it consists.
Instead, therefore, of all this pageantry, which seems so strongly to
have acted upon your mind, I must inform you that there is no human
being exposed to suffer a greater degree of hardship; he is often
obliged to march whole days in the most violent heat, or cold, or rain,
and frequently without victuals to eat, or clothes to cover him; and
when he stops at night, the most that he can expect is a miserable
canvas tent to shelter him, which is penetrated in every part by the
wet, and a little straw to keep his body from the damp unwholesome
earth. Frequently he cannot meet with even this, and is obliged to lie
uncovered upon the ground, by which means he contracts a thousand
diseases, which are more fatal than the cannon and weapons of the enemy.
Every hour he is exposed to engage in combats at the hazard of losing
his limbs, of being crippled or mortally wounded. If he gain the
victory, he generally has only to begin again and fight anew, till the
war is over; if he be beaten, he may probably lose his life upon the
spot, or be taken prisoner by the enemy, in which case he may languish
several months in a dreary prison, in want of all the necessaries of
life."

"Alas!" said Harry, "what a dreadful picture do you draw of the fate of
those brave men who suffer so much to defend their country. Surely those
who employ them should take care of them when they are sick, or wounded,
or incapable of providing for themselves."

"So indeed," answered Mr Barlow, "they ought to do; but rash and foolish
men engage in wars without either justice or reason, and when they are
over they think no more of the unhappy people who have served them at so
much loss to themselves."

_Harry._--Why, sir, I have often thought, that, as all wars consists in
shedding blood and doing mischief to our fellow-creatures they seldom
can be just.

_Mr Barlow._--You are indeed right there. Of all the blood that has
been shed since the beginning of the world to the present day, but very
little indeed has been owing to any cause that had either justice or
common sense.

_Harry._--I then have thought (though I pity poor soldiers extremely,
and always give them something if I have any money in my pocket) that
they draw these mischiefs upon themselves, because they endeavour to
kill and destroy other people, and, therefore, if they suffer the same
evils in return, they can