[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Zeid bin Ra'ad

r president.

By the time he ended his service as High Commissioner, one journalist reported that because Zeid was famously blunt and spared no one, his speeches and statements were eagerly awaited by the Geneva press corps.  This endeared him to human rights activists worldwide.

Honours and awards

On May 27, 2020, Zeid Raad Al Hussein was invited to and gave special remarks at his alma mater Johns Hopkins University's 2020 Commencement ceremony. Other notable guest speakers during the virtual ceremony included Reddit co-founder and Commencement speaker Alexis Ohanian; philanthropist and former New York City Mayor, Michael Bloomberg; Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and a leading member of the White House Coronavirus Task Force; and senior class president Pavan Patel.

Personal life

Zeid is the son of Prince Ra'ad bin Zeid, Lord Chamberlain of Jordan. His paternal grandmother was the Turkish painter Princess Fahrelnissa Zeid who was married to Prince Zeid bin Hussein.

Zeid was married on 5 July 2000 in Amman to Sarah Butler, known as Princess Sarah Zeid after her marriage, who was born in Houston, Texas, on 1 August 1972. She was educated at Prior's Field, Hurtwood House in Surrey, and has a BA in International Relations from the University of St. Thomas in Houston, Texas and an MSC in Development Studies from SOAS, University of London. She was then employed with the United Nations Organization in New York City, where she served in the development program, the peace-keeping department and UNICEF. She is the daughter of Dr Godfrey Butler, a British geologist and a consultant to international oil companies, and Jean H. Butler.

Zeid's younger brother, Mired bin Ra'ad, is the Chairman of the National Commission for Demining and Rehabilitation of Jordan, and Special Envoy of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, or Ottawa Treaty, which seeks to eliminate the use of landmines.

References

External links

 Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
 The Washington Diplomat newspaper - Ambassador profile 
 

United Nations High Commissioners for Human Rights
1964 births
Living people
People from Amman
House of Hashim
Jordanian people of Turkish descent
Jordanian people of Swedish descent
Jordanian princes
Johns Hopkins University alumni
Alumni of Christ's College, Cambridge
Jordanian diplomats
Jordanian military personnel
Presidents of the Assembly of States Parties of the International Criminal Court
Permanent Representatives of Jordan to the United Nations
Ambassadors of Jordan to the United States
Ambassadors of Jordan to Mexico
World Bank people
Jordanian officials of the United Nations
Honorary Knights Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George
People educated at Reed's School