[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Pace University people

The following is a partially sorted list of people associated with Pace University, including current and former faculty members, alumni, students, and others:

Presidents of Pace

Notable faculty
 Charles A. Agemian - Professor of Business; banker; former Executive Vice-President of Chase Manhattan Bank; former Chairman and CEO of Hackensack Trust Corp. (renamed Garden State National Bank)
 Jacob M. Appel - bioethicist and euthanasia advocate (former faculty)
 Peter Fingesten - Founding chairman of the Art department 
 Ira Joe Fisher - CBS broadcaster; Student Success Coordinator at Pace University's Center for Academic Excellence in Pleasantville
 Harold Holzer - former professor of history; Senior Vice President for External Affairs, Metropolitan Museum of Art; co-chairman, United States 2009 Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission, appointed by President Clinton in September 2000, and elected co-chairman in 2001
Matthew Humphreys - Actor and head of the BFA Acting for Film, Television, Voice-overs, and Commercials program (FTVC) within the Pace School of Performing Arts (PPA)
 Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. '87 - alumnus; Professor Emeritus  of Environmental Law; radio host, Ring of Fire; former New York City assistant district attorney
 William Kunstler - civil rights attorney, Associate Professor of Law (1951–1963)
 Ryan Scott Oliver - award-winning composer and professor for BFA Musical Theatre program
 Richard Ottinger - former member of the United States House of Representatives; Professor of Environmental Studies; co-director of Pace's Center for Environmental Legal Studies
 David Siegel - Lubin Adjunct Professor of Venture Capital and Entrepreneurship; CEO of Investopedia
 Valentine Rossilli Winsey - anthropologist and women's rights activist
 Rob Redding - talk host, journalist, author and artist

Notable alumni

(*did not graduate)

Arts and letters
 Tessa Bailey, romance novelist
 David Ehrenstein - journalist; film critic
 Marv Goldberg '67 - music historian in the field of rhythm & blues
 Jeff Rubens '61 - statistician; co-editor of The Bridge World

Commerce, accountancy, and business
 Philip C. Abramo - American financial fraudster, white-collar crime boss and DeCavalcante crime family Caporegime, known as "the King of Wall Street" 
 Ariane de Rothschild - on Board of Directors of Compagnie Financière Edmond de Rothschild and Banque privée Edmond de Rothschild; wife of Baron Benjamin de Rothschild
 Richard Grasso* - Chairman and CEO (1995–2003) of the New York Stock Exchange
 Herbert L. Henkel '79 - Chairman, Ingersoll-Rand Company; former President & CEO
 Kevin Huang - CEO, Pixel Interactive Media in Asia
 Jeff Jacobson '93 - Vice-President of Kodak; COO of Kodak's Graphic Communications Group; President of Kodak's Graphic Solutions & Services
 Edward D. Miller '68 - on Board of Directors, American Express Company; former President and CEO of AXA Financial, Inc.; former Senior Vice Chairman, Chase Manhattan; former President, Chemical Banking Corporation
Rosemary Vrablic, managing director and senior private banker of Deutsche Bank's US private wealth management business
 Allen Weisselberg '70, CFO of The Trump Organization
Frank A. Calderoni, Chief Executive Officer of Anaplan
Telfar Clemens, fashion designer and entrepreneur

Engineering and technology
 Rob Enderle - technical and legal analyst; founder of the Enderle Group
 Herbert L. Henkel '79 - Chairman, President and CEO, Ingersoll-Rand Company, Ltd.
 Ivan G. Seidenberg '81 - Former President and CEO of Verizon; benefactor and trustee; namesake of Pace's Seidenberg School of Computer Science & Information Systems