[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Youssef Nada

cific reason. The Italian case was closed in 2007, after a lengthy investigation whereby the Prosecutor stated that the grounds for opening the case appeared to be more political and agenda-driven rather than judicial or evidence based. Italian premier newspaper Corriere della Sera reported on this.

Both the Swiss and Italian governments petitioned the Committee of the United Nations in-charge of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267 terror blacklist.

In 2009, Nada was removed from the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267 terror blacklist (UNSC 1267).

Tried in absentia in Egyptian military trial
In January and February 2007, Egypt announced it had frozen the assets of dozens of top Muslim Brotherhood figures, warning that at least 40 persons were to stand trial in Egypt's military court. The Associated Press notes this court is "known for its swift trials and no right of appeal."

In April 2008, an Egyptian military tribunal sentenced Nada in absentia to ten years' imprisonment for providing financial support to the Muslim Brotherhood.

In his 2008 filings at the European Court of Human Rights, Nada claims he had not been informed of the proceedings against him and that he had therefore never had the possibility of defending himself in person nor of sending a lawyer to represent him. Nada noted that the  trial was held before a military tribunal even though he was a civilian, and therefore called the proceedings into question as being an unfair trial.

Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe inquiry
A 2007 report for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) by Swiss Senator Dick Marty described the Nada case as being "like a page out of Kafka". Investigations of the case, and the injustices suffered by Nada, who has never been proven to have any links to Al Qaeda, nor the Taliban, were the focal point of a two-year PACE human rights investigation. During this investigation, the UN SC 1276, and other UN terror-blacklisting programs, came under harsh scrutiny and criticism. The PACE report summarised the situation in these terms:

"Even the members of the committee which decides on blacklisting are not given all the reasons for blacklisting particular persons or groups. Usually, those persons or groups are not told that blacklisting has been requested, given a hearing or even, in some cases, informed of the decision — until they try to cross a frontier or use a bank account. There is no provision for independent review of these decisions".

PACE concluded that then (and still current) terror blacklisting procedures were unworthy of the UN and EU. Criticisms were levied stating that these kind of injustices did not help to fight terrorism, but to promote popular frustrations by persecuting persons without justice and transparency.

In 2010, PACE's rapporteur made a third-party submission to the European Court of Human Rights in support of Nada's case against Switzerland (see below), which was ultimately successful.

European Court of Human Rights ruling
On 12 September 2012, the European Court of Human Rights decided that Switzerland had violated two Articles of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, aka "The Convention", in particular articles 8 and 13. The court ruled that Switzerland violated Nada's human rights by restricting his cross-border movements after the United States put Nada on a blacklist on suspicion of financing terrorism.

The United States had accused Nada of helping finance the 9/11 terrorist attacks, placing him on the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267 terror blacklist, a sanctions list for persons associated with Al Qaeda and the Taliban. The United States refused to provide evidence to support the accusation, claiming the information was classified. Still, the terror-blacklisting left Nada in a position of being treated as a criminal, without trial, nor with any means of appeal.

The Strasbourg court ruled that "Switzerland should have taken all possible measures, within the latitude available to it, to adapt the sanctions regime to the applicant's individual situation". Switzerland was ordered to pay Nada €30,000 to cover his costs and expenses.

The decision was seminal, as it made clear that the Convention was required to be upheld, in relation to persons subject to UN terror-blacklisting, under UN SC 1267.

References
 (authorized biography of Nada)

External links
 Official Personal Website

Articles in French
 http://www.tdg.ch/suisse/youssef-nada-gagne-proces-suisse/story/31352637?track  
 https://www.letemps.ch/suisse/2012/09/12/juges-strasbourg-condamnent-suisse-applique-aveuglement-sanctions-onu-contre

Living people
1931 births
20th-century Egyptian businesspeople
Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood members
People from Alexandria