[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Don't Cry Now

Don't Cry Now is a studio album by American singer Linda Ronstadt. It was released by Asylum Records on October 1, 1973 and contained ten tracks. While some tracks were new material, many of the songs were cover tunes. The album explored the genres of Country folk, country rock and pop rock. It was Ronstadt's first album recorded on the Asylum label and first to feature producer Peter Asher. Don't Cry Now was given favorable reviews from several music publications and was a commercial success. Along with reaching chart positions in multiple countries, it also certified gold in the United States for selling over 500,000 copies.

Background and recording
Linda Ronstadt had been recording for Capitol Records in the early part of her career. Since the break up of her group the Stone Poneys, Ronstadt had been recording as a solo artist. She had some chart success with the single "Long, Long Time" in 1970. In the early seventies, Ronstadt obtained an early release from her Capitol contract to sign with David Geffen's Asylum Records. Although Don't Cry Now marked the start of Ronstadt's long association with Asylum, due to contractual obligations her next recorded album, Heart Like a Wheel, would be released on her previous label, Capitol. 

Ronstadt began the recording process for Don't Cry Now in 1972. It would take a year to finish. The album reportedly cost over $150,000 to make. It was first produced by John Boylan and J. D. Souther, both of whom had separate romantic relationships with Ronstadt at the time. The album's recording kept getting delayed primarily due to Ronstadt going on tour with Neil Young. James Taylor knew of Ronstadt's music and his family introduced her to producer Peter Asher. Asher and Ronstadt would eventually record 13 albums together. Asher helped Ronstadt finish recording Don't Cry Now in 1973.

Content
Don't Cry Now consisted of ten tracks. Three tracks were penned by co-producer J. D. Souther: "I Can Almost See It", "The Fast One" and the title track. A selection of songs on the album were covers. Among them was "Love Has No Pride", which was first recorded by Bonnie Raitt. A second was "Silver Threads and Golden Needles". Although first recorded by Wanda Jackson, it was notably a US top 20 song for The Springfields in 1962. The track "Everybody Loves a Winner" was first a top 30 US R&B song for Glenn Jones. Also included was Randy Newman's "Sail Away", the Eagles' "Desperado" and Neil Young's "I Believe in You".

Critical reception

Don't Cry Now was met with generally favorable reviews. Billboard described it as both "fresh and reflective". They found Ronstadt's vocals "confident" and to evoke similar qualities to that of Joan Baez. Rolling Stone also drew comparisons to Baez, notably to her album Blessed Are.... Writer Stephen Holden also praised Ronstadt's vocal performance: "Her natural vocal equipment is second to none. Combined with perfect pitch, impeccable phrasing and control, her singing carries a throb that hurts and soothes at the same time, and her feeling for the melodic construction of any given song is always proportionate to its structure." AllMusic's Stephen Thomas Erlewine rated Don't Cry Now three out of five stars and commented that it "expanded the pop/rock concessions of Linda Ronstadt, and the result was the singer's first genuine hit record."

Release, chart performance and singles
Don't Cry Now was originally released by Asylum Records on October 1, 1973. It was made available as a vinyl LP and cassette, with five selections on either side of both discs. It was Ronstadt's first Asylum album and fifth overall. Don't Cry Now entered the US Billboard 200 albums chart in October 1973 and spent 56 weeks there. In March 1974, it peaked at the number 45 position. It also went to the number 57 position on Canada's RPM all-genre chart and number 46 on Australia's Kent Music Report chart. It was Ronstadt's second album to make positions in Australia and Canada.

A total of three singles were spawned from Don't Cry Now. The first was "Love Has No Pride", which was issued by Asylum in October 1973. It reached number 51 on the US Hot 100 and number 59 on Canada's Top Singles chart. It was followed in February 1974 by "Silver Threads and Golden Needles". Along with reaching number 67 on the US Hot 100 and number 90 on the Canadian Top Singles charts, it also reached number 20 on the US and Canadian country charts. "Colorado" was issued as the album's third single in May 1974.

Track listing

Personnel 
All credits are adapted from the liner notes of Don't Cry Now.