[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1987 Atlantic hurricane season

Antigua. No damage or fatalities were reported.

Hurricane Emily 

A tropical depression, the tenth of the season, formed on September 20. It soon became a tropical storm that day off the South American coast. Emily quickly strengthened becoming a hurricane less than 48 hours later on September 22.

The cyclone then slowly began turning north, soon making landfall in the Dominican Republic, where three people were reported dead and there was $30 million (1987 US dollars, $56.9 million in 2009 USD) in damage. Emily passed over Hispaniola, turned to the northeast, and eventually made landfall in Bermuda, where it caused $50 million (1987 USD, $94.8 million in 2009 USD) in damage, though there were no fatalities. It weakened into a tropical storm after landfall, peaking at  in wind speed, a Category-3 hurricane.

After peaking at winds of , Emily dissipated on September 26. Thousands of migratory birds took refuge on Bermuda during the storm, including ten thousand bobolinks and thousands of Connecticut warblers. After the storm passed Bermuda, Emily became the second-fastest-moving hurricane of the previous century (behind only the 1938 New England hurricane), moving at a pace of  or 31 m/s. Emily was the first hurricane in the Caribbean since Hurricane Katrina of the 1981 Atlantic hurricane season.

Hurricane Floyd 

A broad area of low pressure organized into a tropical depression off the coast of Nicaragua on October 9. After drifting to the southeast, it turned to the north-northwest and organized into a tropical storm on October 10. Subsequent to crossing western Cuba, Floyd accelerated to the northeast, and attained hurricane status late on October 12. It passed through the Florida Keys before entraining cooler, drier air from a stationary frontal boundary. Its convection became very disorganized, and Floyd weakened back to a tropical storm early on October 13 to the southeast of Miami; the storm crossed the Bahamas, and becoming an extratropical cyclone before being absorbed by the frontal boundary on October 14.

Damage in Florida was minimal due to the disorganized nature of the hurricane. Floyd brought up to  of rain to the state, causing moderate crop damage in the southern portion of the state. In addition, a tornado spawned by the storm damaged portions of the Florida Keys. Overall damage amounted to around $500,000 (1987 USD), with no casualties or injuries reported.

Tropical Depression Fourteen 

A broad area of low pressure existed in the central Caribbean in late October. It steadily organized, and was classified as Tropical Depression Fourteen on October 31. It moved northwestward, and entered a high-shear environment due to an upper-level low situated toward the end of a high pressure system. By November 1, little convection remained as the weak depression turned to the north and crossed Cuba. A burst of convection organized over the depression, and brought strong wind gusts to the Florida Keys as it passed through the area on November 2. It continued to the north-northwest, paralleling the Florida west coast, and lost all of its convection on November 3. The system turned to the northeast, and merged with a weak extratropical low over northern Florida on November 4.

Rainfall was experienced as far north as eastern Georgia and extreme southern South Carolina. Other parts of the United States received high to moderate rains while the aforementioned region received low amounts. Six fatalities were reported from devastating rainfall in Jamaica from the depression.

Storm names 
The following names were used for named storms that formed in the north Atlantic in 1987. This is the same list used for the 1981 season. No names were retired, so it was used again in the 1993 season.

Season effects 
This is a table of all of the storms that did form in the 1987 Atlantic hurricane season. It includes their duration, names, landfall(s) – denoted by bold location names – damages, and death totals. Deaths in parentheses will be additional and indirect (an example of an indirect death would be a traffic accident), but are still related to that storm. Damage and deaths will include totals while the storm was extratropical or a wave or low, and all of the damage figures are in 1987 USD.