[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# TT1

on further, interpreting the decoration as flowing from the left side of the doorway, along the two long walls, then the two short walls, then the ceiling and back to the right side of the doorway, covering the death, underworld journey and eventual rebirth of the deceased following the solar cycle.

The tomb's decoration starts outside the burial chamber, with a painted doorway. The lintel depicts Sennedjem worshiping the god Atum who is seated in a barque. The vertical doorjambs are inscribed with columns of text. The burial chamber was closed with a painted wooden door that is decorated on both sides. The exterior depicts Sennedjem, Iyneferti, and their daughter Irunefer before Osiris and Maat. Below, seven of the couple's sons worship the deities Ptah-Sokar-Osiris and Isis. The interior surface of the door depicts Sennedjem and Iyneferti playing the board game senet. The left side of the doorway depicts the two lions of the horizon (Aker); on the right side Ra, depicted as "The Great Cat", decapitates the snake Apep, representing victory over night. The ceiling of the doorway depicts the arms of the goddess Nut holding the sun.

The tympanum on the western wall is surmounted by two Anubis-jackals laying on rectangular tombs. Below them, Sennedjem and Iyneferti adore thirteen seated funerary gods, including Osiris and Ra-Harakhty. The text separating the deities appeals to funerary gods to grant the deceased strength and power. 

The lowest register of the south wall depicts a family banquet, separated into left (eastern) and right (western) sides by the doorway. Seated on the left side, the side of the living are Sennedjem's probable brothers Tutuya and Messu. Messu's daughter Taia stands with him. Behind them, Sennedjem's eldest son Khabekhnet and his wife Sahti are depicted seated with their daughter Henutweret. Behind them stand the rest of Sennedjem's children led by sons Bunakhtef and Rahotep, then the eldest daughter Iutnefret, and the sons Khonsu, Ramose, Anihotep and Ranekhu who stand in pairs; last is a young unnamed girl. On the right side, the side of the dead, Sennedjem and Iyneferti are seated at the far right and attended to by their son Bunakhtef, who is dressed as a sem-priest and pours a libation; their two young children, Ranekhu and Hotepu, stand under their chairs. Next to them are Tjaro and Taya, whose son called Roma pours a libation and offers them "breath" in the form of a sail; a daughter named Taashen sits under Taya's chair. Closest to the doorway is Sennedjem's father Khabekhnet and his mother Tahenu and possible grandmother Rusu who are also attended by a son named Roma; an additional daughter is seated beneath a chair. A further register is above this scene. On the left side, Sennedjem and Iyneferti adore 10 Underworld gate guardians in two separate registers. On the right side is a depiction of Sennedjem's mummy on a leonine-bier inside a tent, and flanked on either side by the goddesses Isis and Nephthys in the form of birds. 

The north wall is divided into two scenes. On the left, Anubis attends the mummy of Sennedjem in a tent, surrounded by text from the Book of the Dead. On the right, in a scene referencing the weighing of the heart, Sennedjem is escorted by Anubis into the presence of Osiris, who stands in a booth flanked by eyes of Horus and imiut-fetishes. Sennedjem is depicted again kneeling before an offering table in front of Osiris. He wears a grey wig, possibly to signal he has lived a long life and died in old age.

The tympanum of the short eastern wall depicts the rising sun as a seated sun god on a solar barque, adored by baboons. The second register depicts several scenes. From left to right, Sennedjem and his wife adore Ra, Osiris, and Ptah, and two additional gods. Their son Rahotep sails a papyrus skiff, and his brother Khonsu performs the "Opening of the Mouth" ritual for his father's mummy. Below is a large scene of Aaru, the ancient Egyptian afterlife. Sennedjem and Iyneferti plough the soil, and plant and harvest crops, surrounded by a familiar Nile environment of palm trees and sycomores, flowers such as cornflowers and poppies and irrigation canals. On the right side, Sennedjem receives food offerings. The barque of Ra-Harakhty is docked at an island on the bottom right.