[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Plan Canada

oled centrally. Funds are then allocated based on in-country developed strategic plans, with a focus on supporting children-related operations and ventures. Typically, 20% of funds raised go to support Plan Canada's operations, public education and fundraising as per Plan's 80:20 rule of allocation.

Plan International Canada adheres to the standards of the Imagine Canada Ethical Fundraising and Financial Accountability Code and supports the Association of Fundraising Professionals’ Donor Bill of Rights.

Plan International is a member agency of the Humanitarian Coalition.  Together with the other partner organizations, the coalition raises money for humanitarian situations around the world.

Recent projects

Plan International and Plan International Canada have been a part of numerous international projects and initiatives, including:
 January 2011 - Plan Canada's Because I Am a Girl wins a Gold Cassie in the not-for-profit category. 
 January 2010 - Plan Canada is one of the first NGOs to react to the Haiti earthquake.  Plan is one of 9 NGOs benefiting from a one-hour national telethon called Canada for Haiti which raises $13.5M from the Canadian public.
 September 2009 - Plan announced a $100M Campaign to support girls' rights and a website to engage youth to advocate for girls.
 May 2009–Plan announced its intent to distribute 300,000 IDPs of aid to Sri Lanka.
 April 2009–Plan received $900,000 CDN from Slumdog Millionaire filmmakers to improve the lives of children and their families in Mumbai's poorer communities.
 April 2009–Plan Canada partnered with clothing company Olsen Europe to establish a new line of clothing, the Friendship Collection.
 January 2009–Plan Canada's partnership with The Girls’ Rights Program resulted in a Girls’ Rights Tour. The Girls’ Rights Tour emphasizes self-esteem and awareness of women's issues.
 January 2009–Plan's short film, Flood Children of Holdibari [sic], won first place in the World Bank's Social Dimensions of Climate Change section of their international film festival.
 December 2008–Plan Canada shipped medical supplies to Zimbabwe to combat the cholera outbreak there.
 July 2008–Plan Canada launched its Global Food Crisis Report and announced a $750 million funding initiative.
 November 2007–Plan Canada traveled to Haiti with R&B singer George Nozuka to film a documentary on restaveks, child slaves, in Haiti.

References

External links
 Official Website.
 Toronto Charities List.
 Because I Am A Girl
 Gifts of Hope Catalogue

Children's charities based in Canada