[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aloisiuskolleg

U-shaped, three-storey building from the 1920s. In addition to classrooms it houses two rooms each for chemistry, physics, computers, and music along with a language laboratory and a library. Workmen's equipment is located under the gyms and includes welding devices, a joinery, and printing presses.

Between the school building and the newer boarding houses is the "Fathers Tower", a five-storey square tower in which the fathers lived since improvements in the 1970s. Prior to this, boarding schools with the youngest pupils were accommodated on the two upper floors, which gave the building the nickname "boys silo".

Sports facilities
The sports facilities include two gymnasiums next to the school building. In front of the gyms is a basketball court. The school yard also contains a basketball and handball court. Beyond the school yard on the way to Stella there is a football field, a tartan track, five tennis courts, and a half-court (wall-court).

Stella Rheni

In 1891-1893 the Elberfeld banker Baron Karl von der Heydt commissioned the "Castle on the Juniper" by the architect Heinrich Plange in neoclassical architecture and gave it the name "Stella Rheni" (Latin for "Star of the Rhine"). From this strictly geometrical building in yellow sandstone, you can enjoy a view over the Rhine valley and Siebengebirge. Walter von Engelhardt who also landscaped Charlottenburg laid out the extensive park. Since 1927, the Jesuit Villa has been used as a boarding school for young and middle-class boys.

Jägerhaus

The "Jägerhaus", formerly belonging to the Heydts, is a highly romantic miniature version of a hunting castle and lies about 200 meters below the Stella. Here the primary students used to live on their own, without supervision.

New
The new building was built together with the school building in the 1960s and was connected to the Fathers' Tower. It was L-shaped and was renovated in 2006. In the renovation a part of it was demolished and replaced by a newly built rotunda: the classic L-shape was not retained. From the new building there is direct access to the rotunda.

Girls' house
The girls' house was finished in September 2005 after a year of construction on the former fruit orchards opposite the school, by the office of architects Pilhatsch & Partner. The girls' house opened in the summer of 2006, since in the transitional period the building was used for the boys who were boarding, who had to leave the old "new building" temporarily because of renovation work.

Church

An octagonal church was built in the early 1980s, on the site of a dilapidated church from the 1960s. The showpiece of the church is a bronze sculpture of an angel by Ewald Mataré.

Alumni 
Former pupils of the school can remain connected through the alumni network. Former pupils of the Aloisiuskolleg, Kolleg St. Blasien, and the Canisius-Kolleg Berlin College can find addresses at Stellaner webpage. For alumni of the Aloisiuskolleg there is a special association, found at Aloisiuskolleg Alumni.

Notable alumni of the Aloisiuskolleg 
 Georg Freiherr von Boeselager - resistance fighter from 20 July 1944
 Philipp Freiherr von Boeselager - resistance fighter from 20 July 1944
 Philipp Brenninkmeyer - actor, member of Brenninkmeijer family
 Till Brönner - musician
 Hanns Feigen   – lawyer
 Johannes B. Kerner – television host (ZDF)
 Alexander Graf Lambsdorff - executive committee of the FDP and member of the European parliament
 Stefan Raab - former German television host (TV Total)
 Norman Rentrop – publisher and investor
 Hans Riegel - entrepreneur, founder of Haribo
 Thomas de Maizière - former Federal Minister of the Interior and Head of the German Chancellery, cousin of Lothar de Maizière

See also
 Canisius-Kolleg Berlin
 Kolleg St. Blasien
 Sankt-Ansgar-Schule
 List of Jesuit sites

References

External links

Aloisiuskolleg-Bonn
Private schools in Germany
Boarding schools in Germany
Catholic boarding schools
Jesuit secondary schools in Germany
High schools in Germany
Educational institutions established in 1900
Gymnasiums in Germany
Catholic Church sexual abuse scandals in Germany
1900 establishments in Germany