[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alessio Sakara

cão was injured while training and replaced by Rafael Natal.  Then in early February, Natal pulled out of the bout due to a knee injury, and was replaced by promotional newcomer Chris Weidman. Sakara lost a unanimous decision after getting repeatedly taken down and controlled by Weidman's wrestling.

The bout between Sakara and Rivera was rescheduled again for August 6, 2011 at UFC 133, but Sakara was forced out of the bout after tearing the ACL in his knee while training and was replaced by Costas Philippou.

Sakara faced Brian Stann on April 14, 2012, at UFC on Fuel TV: Gustafsson vs. Silva. He lost the fight via KO in the first round.

Sakara lost to Patrick Côté due to disqualification on November 17, 2012, at UFC 154 after rocking Côte with elbows, only to get caught up in the moment and land multiple blows to the back of Côté's head. Sakara's team immediately appealed the result, but the Quebec commission denied the appeal.

In late November 2012, Sakara signed a new four-fight contract with the UFC.

A rematch was briefly linked with Côté for March 16, 2013 at UFC 158. However, Sakara was forced out of the bout with a kidney illness.

Sakara was slated to face Tom Watson at UFC Fight Night 30. However, Watson was forced out of the bout with an injury and was replaced by Magnus Cedenblad. Subsequently in early October, Cedenblad was forced out of the Sakara bout with an injury and replaced by newcomer Nico Musoke. Sakara lost the fight by submission due to an armbar in the first round and was released from the promotion shortly after.

Final Fight Championship
After a nine-month delay, on July 24, 2014, Sakara signed a three-fight deal with the European promotion Final Fight Championship. During the press conference he stated that his UFC career was compromised because he had enormous trouble cutting weight at  and that he will continue his career in the Light Heavyweight division.

Sakara's Final Fight Championship debut took place on December 6, 2014 against Maciej Browarski. The fight was stopped in the first round when Sakara wasn't able to continue after getting injured from tearing his bicep. First Browarski was awarded the victory via TKO (injury), the result was later overturned to a No Contest by the Croatian MMA Federation.

In his next fight, Sakara faced off against Lebanon's Dib Akil. Following the opening seconds of the round, in which Akil threw wild hooks that unsuccessfully landed, Sakara took Akil to the ground and piled up punches until the TKO stoppage.

Bellator MMA
On November 27, 2015, it was announced that Sakara signed a three-fight contract with Bellator MMA.

Sakara made his promotional debut against Brian Rogers at Bellators first event in Sakara's native Italy on April 16, 2016 at Bellator 152. He won via knockout in the second round.

On September 21, 2016, it was announced that Sakara would be facing Joey Beltran in the co-main event of Bellator 168 on December 10, 2016. He won via knockout in the first round.

Bellator title shot
Sakara challenged Rafael Carvalho for the Bellator Middleweight Championship on December 9, 2017 at Bellator 190. He lost via knockout in the first round.

Post title shot reign
Sakara headlined Bellator 211 against Kent Kauppinen on December 1, 2018. He lost the fight via knockout in the first round.

Sakara faced Canaan Grigsby at Bellator Milan on October 12, 2019. He won the fight via TKO in the first round.

Sakara was scheduled to face Darwin Rodriguez at Bellator Milan 3 on October 3, 2020. However, Sakara ended up withdrawing from the bout due to an undisclosed injury.

On July 10, 2021, it was announced that he was no longer under contract with Bellator. However, in early 2023 news surfaced that Sakara was still under contract with Bellator.

Bare-knuckle boxing
In February 2023, it was announced that Sakara had signed a multi-fight contract with Bare Knuckle Fighting Championship.

Personal life
Sakara has two sons from a previous marriage. Recognizable for his many tattoos, Sakara has the words "Senatus Populusque Romanus" on his forearm, a common marking of soldiers of the Roman Empire, as well as several other tattoos that are a tribute to his ethnic background and love of Roman history. His surname comes from Saqqara, which was a Roman colony in Egypt.

Autobiography
In May 2020, a book in Italian about Sakara – Ogni giorno in battaglia. La mentalità del legionario – was published ().

Championships and accomplishments
Ultimate Fighting Championship
Knockout of the Night (One time) 

 Italy Chinese Kung Fu Association
 Italian Heavyweight Pro Sanshou Champion

 World Chinese Kung Fu Association (World Pro Sanshou Championship)
 Silver Medal in Pro Sanshou: Heavyweight Class

Mixed martial arts record