[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Grant, Lee, Sherman: Civil War Generals 2

f that year with an estimated price of $49. To promote the release, Sierra and Computer Gaming World partnered to create the "Ultimate Civil War" contest. The winners would be sent to an American Civil War reenactment, and would have photographs of themselves in Impressions' next wargame.

Reception

Sales
According to Grammont, Civil War Generals 2 was a commercial success and surpassed sales expectations at Sierra by "a lot". The game's Ultimate Civil War Collection bundle, which contained its predecessor, rose from 58th place in June 1998 to #7 in July on NPD SofTrends' reference software sales charts. In the United States, Civil War Generals 2 took fourth place on PC Data's weekly computer game sales rankings for September 27–October 3, 1998. Claiming fifth and sixth the following two weeks, respectively, it ultimately took 12th for October 1998 as a whole. Its average retail price for the month was $29. As of January 1999, Civil War Generals 2 and its predecessor together had sold more than 700,000 copies globally. PC Gamer US summarized the Civil War Generals series as "very successful" at the time.

Critical reviews

In PC Gamer US, Keith Sullivan praised Civil War Generals 2s scope, gameplay, accessibility and campaign continuity system. However, he called the visuals average and the artificial intelligence (AI) "barely adequate", and found the game's music annoying. He concluded that Civil War Generals 2 is "not the be all and end all of Civil War games for the hard-core wargamer", but that it is a "a good, competent offering" for other players. Conversely, Jim Cobb of Computer Gaming World summarized the game as a step down for the series. He lambasted its "completely broken combat system and [...] dated game engine", which he felt ruined the achievements of the game's campaign and morale systems. Cobb particularly criticized Civil War Generals 2 for historical inaccuracies that make it "impossible to win [...] using historically authentic tactics."

PC Magazines Bertrand C. Emmett wrote that he "relished playing Civil War Generals 2." He praised the game's audiovisuals and multimedia encyclopedia, and summarized the overall product as "engaging". Reviewing the game for Computer Games Strategy Plus, Jim Pedicord enjoyed the expanded scope and more complex rules compared to Civil War General, and called Civil War Generals 2 "the game the original should have been." He singled out the addition of zones of control and victory hexes for praise, and found the AI to be improved. Pedicord concluded that Civil War Generals 2, while "a little on the weak side" for experts of the genre, "should appeal to most wargamers".

Legacy
After the completion of Civil War Generals 2, Grammont left Impressions Games and joined designer Charles Moylan at Big Time Software, where the two created the influential wargame Combat Mission: Beyond Overlord. Grammont and Moylan founded Battlefront.com in the late 1990s to publish Combat Mission, its sequels and other wargames.

A sequel to Civil War Generals 2, entitled Civil War Generals 3, was announced by Impressions and Sierra in January 1999. It was set for release in fall of that year, and was designed by Jeffrey Fiske of the original Civil War General and Steve Serafino of Lords of Magic. Civil War Generals 3 took place in the first year of the American Civil War, and would have tasked the player with establishing and maintaining a war economy. It was planned to feature empire-building and management game mechanics, played via a turn-based "simultaneous execution" gameplay structure. Combat would have taken place in real-time, although a simpler "quick battle" system was planned for novices. Victory could have been achieved through military, economic or other means. The game was announced alongside Pharaoh; at the time, Sierra's Jim Veevaert said that the two games would "be big hits for us this year."

In April 2000, Impressions announced that Civil War Generals 3 had been cancelled. According to James Fudge of Computer Games Strategy Plus, the main reason for the decision was low sales projections: the game was expected to sell "barely enough to cover development costs of the title." Despite the game's cancellation, the Impressions team clarified that they were interested in developing more wargames in the future.

References

1997 video games
American Civil War video games
Computer wargames
Turn-based strategy video games
Video game sequels
Video games developed in the United States
Windows games
Windows-only games
Impressions Games games
Multiplayer and single-player video games
Sierra Entertainment games