[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Carnosaur 2

sed the cast, especially Savage and Stroud. Missoulian criticized the special effects but praised Savage's performance, and wrote that the film was done with "energy and a bit of style and a tiny bit of wit". J.R. Taylor of Entertainment Weekly gave the film a "B+" and called it an "Aliens rip-off".

Brian J. Dillard of AllMovie rated it one star out of five and criticized the dinosaur effects, while stating: "The best that can be said of Carnosaur 2 is that it gives good gore". TV Guide considered the film derivative and predictable, rating it two stars out of five. It wrote that Morneau and the cast "do what they can, but their efforts are further hamstrung by the lack of menacing monsters". TV Guide stated that the dinosaurs "look no more realistic than they did in the first film, but at least Morneau appears to recognize this, and films their attacks in quick flashes for the first half of the movie".

Critic John Kenneth Muir, in 2011, rated it one and a half stars out of four, and noted the similarities with Aliens. He considered the film an improvement over its predecessor, calling the sets "decent" and stating that the cast performances were largely acceptable. He also made note of Rawlins' death: "Before this scene, she had 'final girl' written all over her, so her death is authentically surprising".

In 2013, critic Mike Mayo wrote that the acting was above average, and that Morneau "keeps things moving quickly enough that the plot lapses and less-than-stellar special effects aren't fatal". Mayo also stated that the film's dialogue has "that gritty quality" that made Cameron's early films "so much fun".

See also
 List of films featuring dinosaurs

References

External links
 
 

1995 direct-to-video films
1995 films
1995 action films
1995 horror films
1990s American films
1990s English-language films
1990s monster movies
American monster movies
American splatter films
Direct-to-video sequel films
Films about dinosaurs
Films about genetic engineering
Films directed by Louis Morneau
Films produced by Roger Corman