[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of the Pittsburgh Pirates

ion parks but now with a capacity of 10,000. The Pirates experience a modicum of success in the early 1890s, finishing just five games back of the pennant-winning Boston Beaneaters in 1893. The rest of the decade was more mediocre, with the club consistently placing in the bottom half of the league.

After the 1899 season, the Pirates made what is arguably the best player transaction in franchise history when they picked up nearly all of the star players from the Louisville Colonels. Louisville owner Barney Dreyfuss had been told that the Colonels were slated for elimination when the N.L. contracted from 12 to 8 teams. He secretly purchased a half-interest in the Pirates, then after the season sent nearly all of the Colonels' stars up the Ohio River to Pittsburgh. Since the transaction occurred before the Colonels officially folded, it was structured as a trade; the Pirates sent four relatively unknown players to Louisville.  Despite their nickname, the Pirates at least waited until after the season to pull off this blockbuster trade. This is unlike what happened in 1899 to the Cleveland Spiders and, to a lesser extent, the Baltimore Orioles, who were also part of two-team ownerships. Dreyfuss later bought full control of the team and kept it until his death in 1932.

Success under the Dreyfuss family (1900–1950)

NL dominance, a World Series, and a world title
Bolstered by former Colonels shortstop and Pittsburgh native Honus Wagner, along with player/manager Fred Clarke, the Pirates completely dominated the National League, in part because they lost few star players to the rival American League. A .500 team in 1899, the Pirates immediately saw improvement in the new century, finishing with a 79–60 record in 1900 and just 4½ games behind the Brooklyn Superbas. The following season, the Pirates won their first National League title, and followed that up with pennants in 1902 and 1903.

Dreyfuss had taken a leading role amongst baseball owners and helped the National League broker peace with the upstart American League, recognizing both leagues as major leagues and instituting one set of rules. With Dreyfuss' 1903 squad well on its way to another NL pennant, he asked Henry Killilea, owner of the American League-leading Boston Americans, if he would be interested in scheduling a postseason series between the champions of each league. That series, recognized as the first modern World Series ever played, saw the Americans defeat the favored Pirates in eight games. Deacon Phillippe pitched five complete games, winning three of them, but Pittsburgh was plagued by injuries and a bad performance from Wagner, who batted only 6-for-27 (.222) in the Series and committed six errors.

The Pirates remained one of the premier teams in the National League through the first decade of the 1900s, never finishing lower than fourth (and then, only once), but could not get past the stronger Chicago Cubs or New York Giants. In 1908, the Pirates played in Pittsburgh for the first time, as the team's several parks had all been located in Allegheny City, which was a separate city until annexed by Pittsburgh in December 1907.

In 1909, the Bucs moved out of their longtime home at Exposition Park to the new Forbes Field in Pittsburgh's Oakland neighborhood. The increasingly large crowds coming to see games overwhelmed the cramped, wooden Exposition Park, which was prone to flooding from the nearby Allegheny River. The new stadium could seat an additional 7,000 spectators compared to Exposition Park, and was constructed out of concrete and steel, a novel concept at the time. The site was initially labeled "Dreyfuss's Folly" due to its long distance—a 10-minute trolley ride—from downtown Pittsburgh, but the land around the park developed and criticisms were dropped. Spurred by the new ballpark, the Pirates finished first in the National League with a 110–42 record, which as of 2022 remains the best record in franchise history. Pittsburgh faced off against the Detroit Tigers, who were making their third consecutive appearance in the World Series. The series was billed as a matchup between the major leagues' two superstars, Wagner and Ty Cobb. Both men would be among the five elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame's inaugural class, but Wagner was the better player in 1909. Atoning for his bum performance in 1903, he hit .333 to Cobb's .231 as the Pirates took the series in seven games, winning their first world title.