[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# El Shaddai

El Shaddai (; ) or just Shaddai is one of the names of the God of Israel. El Shaddai is conventionally translated into English as God Almighty. (Deus Omnipotens in Latin, ) 

The translation of El as "God" in the Ugaritic and the Canaanite languages is straightforward. Shaddai may come from shad שד meaning mammary; shaddai שדי is a dual grammatical number shaddayim  שדיים is the typical modern (grammatically plural) hebrew word for human breasts. The Deir Alla inscriptions contain shaddayin as well as elohin rather than elohim. Scholars translate this as "shadday-gods," taken to mean none-too-specific fertility, mountain or wilderness gods. Discomfort over this is sometimes interpreted as controversy, leaving room open for other suggestions, like a relation to the Destroyer aspect of God mentioned et alia during the Egypt affair from shaddad שדד, though such an etymology appears less direct.

The form of the phrase "El Shaddai" fits the pattern of the divine names in the Ancient Near East, exactly as is the case with names like ʾĒl ʿOlām, ʾĒl ʿElyon and ʾĒl  Bēṯ-ʾĒl. As such, El Shaddai can convey several different semantic relations between the two words, among them: the deity of a place called Shaddai, a deity possessing the quality of shaddai and a deity who is also known by the name Shaddai.

Occurrence
Third in frequency among divine names, the name Shaddai appears 48 times in the Bible, seven times as "El Shaddai" (five times in  Genesis, once in  Exodus, and once in  Ezekiel).

The first occurrence of the name comes in , "When Abram was ninety-nine years old the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, 'I am El Shaddai; walk before me, and be blameless,' Similarly, in  God says to Jacob, "I am El Shaddai: be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins." According to  Shaddai was the name by which God was known to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Shaddai thus being associated in tradition with Abraham, the inclusion of the Abraham stories into the Hebrew Bible may have brought the northern name with them, according to the documentary hypothesis of the origins of the Hebrew Bible.

In the vision of Balaam recorded in the Book of Numbers 24:4 and 16, the vision comes from Shaddai, who is also referred to as El ("God") and Elyon ("Most High"). In the fragmentary  inscriptions at Deir Alla, shaddayin appear (; the vowels are uncertain, as is the gemination of the "d"), perhaps lesser figurations of Shaddai. These have been tentatively identified with the šēdim "demons" () of Deuteronomy 32:17 (parashah Haazinu) and Psalm 106: 37–38, who are  Canaanite deities.

The name "Shaddai" is often used in parallel to "El" later in the Book of Job, one of the oldest books of the Bible.

The Septuagint often translates Shaddai or El Shaddai just as "God" or "my God", and in at least one passage (Ezekiel 10:5) it is transliterated (""). In other places (such as Job 5:17) it appears as "Almighty" (""), and this word features in other translations as well, such as the 1611 King James Version.

Etymology
The origin and meaning of "Shaddai" are difficult and a subject of difference.

Shaddai related to wilderness or mountains
According to Ernst Knauf, "El Shaddai" means "God of the Wilderness" and originally would not have had a doubled "d". He argues that it is a loanword from Israelian Hebrew, where the word had a "sh" sound, into Judean Hebrew and hence, Biblical Hebrew, where it would have been śaday with the sound śin. In this theory, the word is related to the word śadé "the (uncultivated) field", the area of hunting (as in the distinction between beasts of the field, , and cattle, ). He points out that the name is found in Thamudic inscriptions (as ʾlšdy), in a personal name Śaday ʾammī used in Egypt from the Late Bronze Age until Achaemenid times, and even in the Punic language name ʿbdšd "Servant of Shadé or Shada".

Another theory is that Shaddai is a derivation of a Semitic root that appears in the Akkadian language shadû (primarily "breast," secondarily "mountain") and shaddāʾû or shaddûʾa "mountain-dweller", one of the names of Amurru. This theory was popularized by W. F. Albright, but was somewhat weakened when it was noticed that the doubling of the medial d  is first documented only in the Neo-Assyrian Empire. However, the doubling in Hebrew might possibly be secondary. According to this theory, God is seen as inhabiting a holy mountain, a concept not unknown in ancient West Asian religion, and also evident in the Syriac Christianity writings of Ephrem the Syrian, who places the Garden of Eden on an inaccessible mountaintop.