[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2007 New Year Honours

The New Year Honours 2007 were appointments by some of the 16 Commonwealth realms to various orders and honours to recognise and reward good works by citizens of those countries. The New Year Honours are awarded as part of the New Year celebrations at the start of January.

The New Year Honours were announced on 30 December 2006 in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Cook Islands, Bahamas, Grenada, 
Solomon Islands, Tuvalu, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Christopher and Nevis.

The recipients of honours are displayed as they were styled before their new honour and arranged by the country (in order of precedence) whose ministers advised The Queen on the appointments, then by honour with grades i.e. Knight/Dame Grand Cross, Knight/Dame Commander etc. and then divisions i.e. Civil, Diplomatic and Military as appropriate.

The list is incomplete.

United Kingdom

Knight Bachelor 
Keith Onyema Ajegbo, OBE, lately Headteacher, Deptford Green School, Lewisham, London. For services to Education.
Ian Charles Franklin Andrews, CBE, TD, Second Permanent Under-Secretary of State, Ministry of Defence.
Geoffrey Lionel Bindman, for services to Human Rights.
Dr John Richard Grenfell Bradfield, CBE, for services to Science, Business and to the community in Cambridge.
Alderman David William Brewer, CMG, JP, lately Lord Mayor of London. For services to the City of London.
Robert William Kenneth Crawford, Director-General, Imperial War Museum. For services to Museums.
 Howard Dalton, Chief Scientific Adviser, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and Professor in the Department of Biological Sciences, University of Warwick.
Professor Gordon William Duff, Professor of Molecular Medicine, Director of Molecular and Genetic Medicine and Medical Research Dean, Sheffield University. For services to Public Health.
James Dyson, CBE, Founder and Chair, Dyson. For services to Business.
Professor Malcolm Green, lately Vice-Principal, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College and Head, National Heart and Lung Institute. For services to Medicine.
Philip Roy Hampton, Chair, J Sainsbury plc. For public service.
Michael De Courcy Fraser Holroyd, CBE, Writer. For services to Literature.
Kenneth Donald John Macdonald, QC, Director of Public Prosecutions and Head of Crown Prosecution Service.
Herbert William Massie, CBE, Chair, Disability Rights Commission. For services to disabled people.
David Edward Murray, Chair, Murray International Holdings Ltd. For services to Business in Scotland.
 Professor John James O'Reilly, lately Chief Executive, Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council. For services to Science.
His Honour Stephen John Lindsay Oliver, QC, Presiding Special Commissioner and President, VAT and Duties Tribunals; President, Financial Services and Markets Tribunal. For public service.
Michael Derek Vaughan Rake, Chair, KPMG. For services to the Accountancy Profession.
Professor George Peter Scott, Vice-Chancellor, Kingston University. For services to Higher Education.
George Albert Shearing, O.B.E., Jazz Pianist and Composer. For services to Music.
Kevin Smith, C.B.E., Chief Executive, GKN. For services to Industry.
Professor John Edward Tooke, Dean, Peninsula Medical School, Honorary Consultant Physician, Royal Devon and Exeter NHS Foundation Trust. For services to Medicine.
Diplomatic service and overseas list
George Desmond Lorenz De Silva, Q.C., lately The Prosecutor to the Special Court for Sierra Leone.
Geoffrey Nice, QC. For services to international criminal justice in and for the former Yugoslavia.
Professor James Fraser Stoddart. For services to chemistry and molecular nanotechnology.

Order of the Bath

Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath (KCB)
Military Division
 Lieutenant General Frederick Richard Viggers, CMG, MBE (492992)

Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB)
Military Division
 Vice Admiral Robin Paul Boissier
 Rear Admiral Philip Lawrence Wilcocks, DSC
 Lieutenant General Robin Vaughan Brims, CBE, DSO (490334)
 Major General Keith Harington Cima (498895), late Corps of Royal Engineers.
 Major General Andrew Richard Evelyn De Cardonnel Stewart, C.B.E. (493787), late Light Dragoons.