[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Terrorism and counterterrorism in Kazakhstan

rn border, said the fence will cover the Sariaghash and Maktaaral districts. Larisa Dmitriyuk, spokeswoman for Kazakhstan's border administration, said the border patrol's "task will now be easier. We will be in a position to use our weapons, as it is the rule when one wants to catch [trespassers]."

In addition to tightening security, Bruce Pannier of Payvand noted increased military spending to strengthen Kazakhstan's border with Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan.

Criticism
Nezavisimaya Gazeta interviewed Vyacheslav Kasymov, director of the executive committee of the Regional Anti-terrorist Center of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, and published the interview on 7 February. In the interview Kasymov accused the Kazakh government of giving refuge to terrorist organizations, specifically Saudi Binladin Group, which operated in Astana. In November 2004 the Supreme Court ruled against the company's claim to 7 square kilometres of land in Astana. The Kazakh Foreign Ministry issued a statement two days later, on 9 February, calling Kasymov's statements "absolutely incompatible with the status of a head of the structure of a large international organization and casts a shadow of doubt on the reputation and position of the SCO in the contemporary world." The statement said the Kazakh government has signed 12 UN anti-terrorist conventions. The Kazakh Foreign Ministry has since characterized Kasymov's comments as "inappropriate" and "totally deprived of the spirit of the basic documents of [the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation]" because "There weren't and there are not any terrorists' bases or camps on the soil of Kazakhstan."

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and Human Rights Watch have criticized the Nazarbayev administration's policy of transferring terrorist suspects to neighboring countries, specifically Uzbekistan, where HRW says suspects face torture.

The strongest criticism of the Nazarbayev administration's counter-terrorism operations comes from Harout Semerdjian of the University of California, Los Angeles. Semerdjian accuses the government of engaging in "semi-state terrorism" through unlawful arrests of journalists, arson, and other attacks on the press. The U.S. embassy criticized an act of arson in Kazakhstan in May 2002.

Further reading
Ahmed Rashid. Jihad: The Rise of Militant Islam in Central Asia, Yale University, 2002, 
Jatin Kumar. Terrorism and Militancy in Central Asia, Gyan Books, 2004, 
Shahram Akbarzadeh. Uzbekistan And The United States: Authoritarianism, Islamism And Washington's Security Agenda, Palgrave Macmillan, April 2005, 
Lutz Kleveman. The New Great Game: Blood and Oil in Central Asia, Grove Press, 2004,

See also
Islamic terrorism
September 11, 2001 attacks
Manas Air Base
Karshi-Khanabad
Wäisi movement

References

External links

Kazakhstani bids for regional antiterrorism agenda
Rapid deployment force established in Central Asia
(Japan Today)
(Interfax)
Kazakh, Tajik security chiefs discuss anti-terrorism cooperation
18 Are Sent Home From Guantanamo
Kazakhstan, UK sign antiterror accord
Kazakh official seeks to tighten Uzbek border security
Kazakhstan extradites terror suspect to Uzbekistan
MP urges NATO to back Kazakhstan in fighting drugs, terrorism

 
Kazakhstan
Kazakhstan
Human rights abuses in Kazakhstan