[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blaster the Rocket Man

gs, two Blaster the Rocket Man songs, as well as some spoken word by Otto. It was initially a part of the "Laminar Excursion Monthly" series. Blaster the Rocket Man's songs from this split were later re-released on a 7" split with folk punk band Destroy Nate Allen in 2012 via High Endurance Records.

Daniel Petersen wrote and performed a spoken word piece for the gypsy-folk-punk band Insomniac Folklore entitled, "The Homecoming:
A Sermon for Certain Serpent-Servants and Sundry Other Unsavory Characters." This piece appeared on their June 2011 release "A Place Where Runaways Are Not Alone."  Adrienne Curry of Insomniac Folklore later adapted the piece into a short play that was performed at Fontbonne University on December 11, 2011. In March 2012, Daniel also recorded a track titled "The Story of Horror Boy" for Insomniac Folklore. The spoken word piece can be found on The Scariest Thing in the Dark E.P.

Musical style and influences
Blaster's sound is often compared to that of the Dead Kennedys or Man or Astro-man?, though headman Otto Bot (stagename for Daniel Petersen) denied any direct influence. A review by HM compared the music to the combined sounds of werewolf movies, Elvis, and the Sex Pistols (among others), further stating that "this is what CREATIVE Christian music sounds like."  The lyrics use horror and sci-fi themes as Christian allegories; HM describes it as using the characters of evil to communicate biblical truth. The Monster Who Ate Jesus includes a number of songs inspired by C. S. Lewis' Space Trilogy. Many included themes disdaining Secular humanism. Blaster was also well known for its stage antics, including masks and costumes as well as frequent audience participation. Masks that Otto wore on stage include a werewolf worn for the band's werewolf-themed songs (such as American Werewolf and I Like Lycanthropy) as well as a fly mask, which he wore for Human Fly Trap.

Members

Current
Last show played in July 2008.

Otto Bot (Daniel Petersen) – vocals/lyrics
Brett Sempsrott – drums
Ty Sempsrott – guitar
Dustin Spock – guitar
Jason Allender – bass

Former
Heater Hands (Dave Petersen) – drums, guitar on most recordings
Chrissy Rocket (Chris Dickens) – guitar
Jason Allender – guitar
Rusty Sempsrott – guitar
Mikey Rocket (Michael Schauss)- bass
Oxford Don – bass
John Grey Vogel – bass
Elijah Sheridan - bass

Discography

Studio albums

Compilations

EPs

References

Further reading

External links
Blaster on Facebook
 
Short history of the band

Christian punk groups
Musical groups established in 1994
Musical groups disestablished in 2002
Horror punk groups
American surf music groups
1994 establishments in Indiana
Musical groups from Indianapolis