[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Fragile state

s, where the government lacks ability to carry out basic functions, the state is more vulnerable to and less able to cope with climate change pressures such as natural resource scarcity, land use change, extreme weather events or volatile food prices, and hence more at risk from further instability.

Impacts
Weak states have been hypothesized to contribute to terrorist activity. English philosopher Thomas Hobbes was the first to make the connection between the strength of a state and violence. He opined that a strong state with a monopoly on force was the only way to avoid a war of "all against all". After the September 11 attacks, US President George W. Bush said that it "taught us that weak states, like Afghanistan, can pose as great a danger to our national interests as strong states. Poverty does not make poor people into terrorists and murderers. Yet poverty, weak institutions, and corruption can make weak states vulnerable to terrorist networks and drug cartels within their borders". The link between weak states and terrorism has been disputed. In 2003, historian Walter Laqueur noted that a majority of poor, weak states had almost no terrorist activity.

Weak states may also be more vulnerable to public health crises such as infectious disease, which can have spillover effects on other countries.

See also
 Crisis States Research Centre
 Failed state
 Fragile States Index
 G7+
 Ochlocracy
 Rogue state
 Stabilization of fragile states

References

 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development "Policy Commitment and Principles for Good International Engagement in Fragile States and Situations" (2007)
 Department for International Development (DFID) paper on Fragile States

External links
 For more information on options to guide better policies for better lives in fragile contexts from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
 For more information on the World Bank's engagement in fragile and conflict-affected states
 For more information on the  Asian Development Bank's engagement in fragile and conflict-affected situations
 For more information on the European Union's engagement in situations of fragility
 For more information on fragile states from Crisis States Research Centre's website 
 For links to some of the most recent donor, practitioner and academic literature on fragile states, see the Governance and Social Development Resource Centre's topic guide on fragile states
 For more information on the unique problems of these countries, see the book Fixing Fragile States: A New Paradigm for Development
 For more information on aid and public finances in fragile states, ODI's Budget Strengthening Initiative's website
 War, Conflict and Fragile States in Asia and the Pacific

International relations
Political neologisms
Types of countries