[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Toro Submarino

was adapted to the stern and the torpedoes type Lay or up to 04 naval mines of 10 pounds of dynamite each and time controller that adhered to the cases of an enemy ship. Its main objective would be to advance at night and attack of the enemy ironclad frigates ( or ), that prowled the bay of Callao.

In the first opportunity where the two Chilean ironclad frigates were anchored near the San Lorenzo Island, the attack was prepared, the Toro was already armed and submerged, but the forces Chilean were warned by their spies: "The Peruvians are preparing an attack with a very powerful secret weapon." This warning caused the Chilean squadron to move from its anchorages to the south, with the consequence that the mission was aborted. Since that, Chilean ships would take the precaution of not hovering nearby to avoid attacks with mines or torpedoes.

On January 17, 1881, after the Battle of Miraflores and at the brink of the occupation of the Peruvian capital, Blume's submarine was scuttled with the other ships of the Peruvian fleet to avoid capture by the enemy. The first Peruvian submarine was sunk in front of the Fleteros dock, today Plaza Grau del Callao.

Its crew list included midshipman Manuel Elías Bonnemaison, a survivor of the monitor Huáscar in the Battle of Angamos, as well as a young composer Jose M. Valle Riestra who enrolled voluntarily in the crew.

Some months later, the well-informed Chileans raised it and transferred it to Chile as a war trophy, however, its trail has been definitively lost.
Some naval war analysts still believe that, had Toro Submarino been successful, it would have dramatically changed the course of the war in favor of Peru; however, many modern historians have expressed skepticism about this possibility.

Submarine characteristics

This submarine was a cylindrical boiler  long and 7 wide (2.1 meters). It was built with iron plates 1/4 inch thick, joined by iron strips and rivets and had frame reinforcements every 3 feet.

Blume applied numerous original ideas from the invention of Toro submarine. Its hatches were sealed by rubber friezes and were located in two turrets with visors, its 2 brass ventilation tubes that could be raised and lowered manually by a special device and which had a function of intake and exhaust of air to the interior aided by a blade fan (it was a system that today could be called Snorkel type). The water tank had levels to know the ballast readings during the dive and a piston system to control the ballast in the inversion and surfacing maneuvers. There were also 2 mercury barometers, one measured the internal pressure and the other was connected at one end to the sea, acting as a depth manometer. The propeller had three blades, it was propelled by the muscular work of 8 men on a 7-foot-long shaft, which activated the pair of the propeller, the bilge pump and the fan.

It was manually operated by six to eight men out of a total crew of eleven.

See also
 History of Peru
 History of submarines

Citations

History of Peru
Ships of the War of the Pacific
19th-century submarines
Submarines of Peru
Shipwrecks in the Pacific Ocean
Maritime incidents in January 1881
Shipwrecks of the War of the Pacific
Scuttled vessels of Peru
1880 ships