[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Inca army

built on concentric terraces that spiraled up the hillside to surround a barracks complex. The size of the pukaras and their garrisons depended on their strategic importance. Sacsayhuaman, overlooking the capital, Cuzco, was of colossal proportions, and was probably the largest pukara in the empire.

The Inca pukaras were at strategic heights overlooking the main crossroads, important settlements, and tambos. Built individually or in groups of different sizes, depending on the importance of the place to be protected. The upper part of the retaining wall of the terraces had a stone parapet that protected the defenders from enemy projectiles (called "Pirqas", walls of rustic construction made of raw stone, with a maximum height of about 1.5–1.7 meters (5.0–5.6 feet) and a width of about one meter). Perforated entrances into the two-meter deep terrace walls allow access to each level of the Pukara. The hilltop complex was surrounded by its own wall, large pukaras could include a platform for a temple dedicated to the sun god Inti; turrets and small towers with stone gates that functioned as observatories, lodgings for the commander of the square, his troops and some priests and Colcas where food, clothing and armament for the garrison were kept, as well as several rooms. The commander of the pukara was usually a Rinriyuq (nobleman from Cuzco), the garrison was called Pukara kamayuqkuna: "Group of the pukara's guards".

Sometimes, instead of building one, the Inca army would just conquer one of the local enemy fortifications and renovate it, such as the Paramonga fortress.

Tambos

The tambo (from quechua "Tampu") was a building located next to a road used by travelling state personnel as a shelter and storage center for administrative and military purposes. Its importance consist in the fact that the tambos were the buildings with the greatest presence throughout the Inca Empire. The Inca trail (Qhapaq Ñan) had 20 or 30 km distant tambos (a journey on foot) from each other. Its main function was to house the chasquis (emissaries) and the Inca officials who traveled through these roads. There is no information on whether they housed ordinary men (hatun runas). People from nearby communities were recruited to serve in the tambos as part of the work system called mit'a.

These Tambos, were places of supply which served the chasquis as a shelter on their travels. They used a relay system to get the information to its destination. They began the journey near one tambo until they reached the next one, where another chasqui was found and he was in charge of carrying out the same task so on until they reached the destination of the message. It is known that they managed to make the route from Cusco to Quito in about a week.

The functions of the tambos also depended on their size and the equipment they contained. Each tambo had the capacity to house several state officials. For example, the smaller tambos served as stations for the chasquis, called "Chasquiwasi" (literally "House of the chasqui") of only one room and a small place to store supplies. Larger tambos could also provide other functions, like warehouses that could provide supplies and some accommodations for the moving armies. This function, however, should not be confused with the collcas, which were only warehouses from which the armies were resupplied when they passed.

Structure 

The main difference between the Inca army and other pre-columbian civilizations military forces was their organization, meanwhile most of them usually attacked in hordes or disorganized groups of specialized warriors, the imperial army had at their disposal a large number of soldiers (200,000 in a single field army). The army was organized on the decimal system, in units of ten, one hundred, one thousand, and so on. Pedro Cieza de León reveals that the military leadership had ten, fifty, one hundred, five hundred, one thousand, five thousand and ten thousand under their command. From this, it's understood that the organization scale would be a factor of 2 and then of 5. However, this can be interpreted as a decimal scale organization, as mentioned before, with two sub-leaders below that would compete for the higher position. This would make total sense if we take into account that it would symbolize the andean duality (Hanan and Hurin) present in all the Inca organization.  

The term Kamayuq stands for: "guard; vigilant; spokesman; specialist; responsible for something.", it comes from the word kamaq: "Administrator, administration, sovereign." and the suffix -yuq: "with; owner; that have." A non-military example for kamayuq would be the Khipu kamayuq, the specialist in making, reading and storing quipus.

The word Apukispay or Apusquipay could come from the word Apu: "Powerful; rich; leader; sovereign; chief; authority." and kispay, that would come from Qispi: "Glass; crystal". In this case, meaning "that shines".

Equipment