[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Latham (footballer)

he club to play in a league fixture against Bradford City, allowing Latham to step in. Nine of his ten caps came during his playing career, however his tenth and final cap came when he was forced into action in a 1–0 win over Ireland on 18 January 1913 while serving as a coach for the national team.

World War I
Latham was commissioned into the 7th battalion of the Royal Welch Fusiliers in the First World War and promoted to Lieutenant in 1916. He spent several months training with his regiment at Park Hall Camp near Oswestry before being deployed in June 1916. He was awarded the Military Cross in 1917 and was reportedly originally recommended for the Victoria Cross, the highest military honour for British forces, for his gallantry in capturing enemy positions on the Turkish front while under heavy fire. Having charged and captured an entrenched position with his platoon, he was described as "cleared the cactus gardens and rounded up all the prisoners under heavy fire from snipers, helped Major Pemberton of the Cheshire Regiment, to organise all the men he could get hold of and built up a line of defence". Some of the troops captured were a Turkish general and his staff. The same night, orders were given to retreat from the position, but these never found their way to Latham and another captain who spent the night in position with the area still "seething with Turks". When daylight came the following morning, the pair found themselves alone but were able to make their way back to their lines.

He added a Bar in 1918 for his actions fighting in Beersheba, in Israel under the command of Edmund Allenby. He was also Mentioned in dispatches by General Archibald Murray, commander of the Egyptian Expeditionary Force at the time. He later traveled with his regiment to fight in Palestine.

It was during his service in the First World War that Latham first met his longtime friend Harry Beadles. During their time in Palestine, Latham and Beadles played football for their division, the 7th battalion of the Royal Welch Fusiliers, and won the British Forces in Egypt Football League Cup Final in 1919.

Coaching career

After returning to Wales, Latham took up a position as a coach at Cardiff City.
He was given a benefit match in 1919, with the Cardiff side playing against local rivals Swansea Town. Latham received the gate receipts, a cheque from the club's directors and a commemorative clock from the players. While serving as a coach, Latham was forced into playing for the side in a 3–1 win over Blackburn Rovers on 2 January 1921 after two of the club's players were taken ill prior to the match, becoming the oldest Football League debutant in the history of the club at 41. To this day he also remains their oldest ever player. Working alongside Fred Stewart, his spell at Ninian Park coincided with one of the most successful spells in the history of the club, including reaching the FA Cup final on two occasions, losing 1–0 to Sheffield United in 1925 before beating Arsenal 1–0 in 1927. During his spell with the club, Latham arranged annual charity matches in his hometown between Cardiff and Newtown to rise money for the Montgomery County Infirmary.

He was let go by the club in 1932 due to financial reasons as they entered a period of decline. He also managed the British team at the 1920 Olympic Games. After leaving Cardiff, Latham worked as a coach at Chester City until his retirement.

Retirement
In 1936, Latham was seriously injured in a bicycle accident and was forced to give up his coaching role. He instead returned to his home town Newtown where he died three years later in July 1939 at Montgomery County Infirmary at the age of 58. His funeral was attended by numerous footballers and his longtime friend Harry Beadles was one of his Pallbearers.

His home town club, Newtown later named their ground Latham Park in honour of him.

Career statistics

Club
Source:

International
Source:

References

Bibliography
 

1881 births
Welsh military personnel
People from Newtown, Powys
Footballers from Powys
Welsh men's footballers
Welsh football managers
Wales men's international footballers
Newtown A.F.C. players
Stoke City F.C. players
Wrexham A.F.C. players
Liverpool F.C. players
Southport F.C. players
Cardiff City F.C. players
British Army personnel of the Second Boer War
British Army personnel of World War I
Royal Welch Fusiliers officers
1939 deaths
Recipients of the Military Cross
Chester City F.C. non-playing staff
Men's association football defenders
Great Britain men's Olympic football team managers
English Football League players
Southern Football League players
South Wales Borderers soldiers