[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Censorship in India

"Partly Free" with a rating of 40 (scale from 0 to 100, lower is better). Its Obstacles to Access was rated 12 (0-25 scale), Limits on Content was rated 10 (0-35 scale) and Violations of User Rights was rated 18 (0-40 scale). India was ranked 29th out of the 65 countries included in the 2015 report.

The Freedom on the Net 2012 report says:
 India's overall Internet Freedom Status is "Partly Free", unchanged from 2009.
 India has a score of 39 on a scale from 0 (most free) to 100 (least free), which places India 20 out of the 47 countries worldwide that were included in the 2012 report. India ranked 14 out of 37 countries in the 2011 report.
 India ranks third out of the eleven countries in Asia included in the 2012 report.
 Prior to 2008, censorship of Internet content by the Indian government was relatively rare and sporadic.
 Following the November 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai, which killed 171 people, the Indian Parliament passed amendments to the Information Technology Act (ITA) that expanded the government's censorship and monitoring capabilities.
 While there is no sustained government policy or strategy to block access to Internet content on a large scale, measures for removing certain content from the web, sometimes for fear they could incite violence, have become more common.
 Pressure on private companies to remove information that is perceived to endanger public order or national security has increased since late 2009, with the implementation of the amended ITA. Companies are required to have designated employees to receive government blocking requests, and assigns up to seven years' imprisonment private service providers—including ISPs, search engines, and cybercafes—that do not comply with the government's blocking requests.
 Internet users have sporadically faced prosecution for online postings, and private companies hosting the content are obliged by law to hand over user information to the authorities.
 In 2009, the Supreme Court ruled that bloggers and moderators can face libel suits and even criminal prosecution for comments posted on their websites.
 Prior judicial approval for communications interception is not required and both central and state governments have the power to issue directives on interception, monitoring, and decryption. All licensed ISPs are obliged by law to sign an agreement that allows Indian government authorities to access user data.

India is classified as engaged in "selective" Internet filtering in the conflict/security and Internet tools areas and as showing "no evidence" of filtering in the political and social areas by the OpenNet Initiative in May 2007. ONI states that:
As a stable democracy with strong protections for press freedom, India’s experiments with Internet filtering have been brought into the fold of public discourse. The selective censorship of Web sites and blogs since 2003, made even more disjointed by the non-uniform responses of Internet service providers (ISPs), has inspired a clamour of opposition. Clearly government regulation and implementation of filtering are still evolving. … Amidst widespread speculation in the media and blogosphere about the state of filtering in India, the sites actually blocked indicate that while the filtering system in place yields inconsistent results, it nevertheless continues to be aligned with and driven by government efforts. Government attempts at filtering have not been entirely effective, as blocked content has quickly migrated to other Web sites and users have found ways to circumvent filtering. The government has also been criticised for a poor understanding of the technical feasibility of censorship and for haphazardly choosing which Web sites to block. The amended IT Act, absolving intermediaries from being responsible for third-party created content, could signal stronger government monitoring in the future.

A "Transparency Report" from Google indicates that the Government of India initiated 67 content removal requests between July and December 2010.

See also

 Ethical Code for Digital News Websites
 Freedom of the press in British India
 Television content rating systems in India
 List of films banned in India
 List of books banned in India
 Pornography laws in India
 Internet censorship in India
 Central Board of Film Certification, the Indian film classification and censorship body

References 

Further reading
Chandmal Chopra and Sita Ram Goel. 1987. The Calcutta Quran Petition. New Delhi: Voice of India.
Elst, Koenraad. 1992. 'Negationism in India: Concealing the Record of Islam'.
Arun Shourie, Ram Swarup, and Goel, Sita Ram Goel, 1998. Freedom of expression: secular theocracy versus liberal democracy.

External links 
Freedom of Expression in India, International Freedom of Expression Exchange (IFEX).
Devika Sethi, War over Words: Censorship in India, 1930-60 (Cambridge University Press, 2019).

 
Politics of India