[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Human rights in Transnistria

Tighina (also known as the Romanian cemetery, which contains/contained the tombs of many World War II soldiers),  thus violating Articles 34 and 130 of the 4th Geneva Convention. The Transnistrian authorities did not exhume the bodies but removed the crosses and leveled the terrain with bulldozers.

According to the Romanian edition of Deutsche Welle, the Transnistrian authorities announced that the crosses would be blown up and mixed with asphalt to repair the roads of the city. According to PMR News, the authorities in Transnistria are to rebury the exhumed soldiers outside of the city and authorities have taken steps so that the identities of these exhumed soldiers are not lost. No such steps have been taken to date and locals have reported bones being moved with bulldozers. A monument to Soviet soldiers is proposed to be built over the leveled graves. According to the official Transnistrian press, "Memorials dedicated to glory and monuments play an important role in the education of the young generation."

The cemetery was founded in 1812, when the graves of Swedish and Russian soldiers that died near the Tighina Fortress in 1709 were relocated. In the 19th century, several leaders of Don cossacks, local boyars and city councilmen were buried in the cemetery. During World War II, Romanian (the majority of the graves), German and Soviet soldiers, and Soviet POWs were buried there. Soviet graves are located in one part of the cemetery, called Borisovskoe, while the 333 Romanian graves were located in the now destroyed part, called Drăgalina. 319 identified Romanian and 14 unidentified soldiers, as well as 13 Soviet prisoners were buried at this cemetery.

2007—2010
In March 2007, several opponents of Transnistrian regime were arrested as they made public appeals for a protest rally against the Tiraspol regime's policy. On March 19, 2007, Transnistrian authorities also arrested Ştefan Urîtu, the head of the Moldovan Helsinki Committee for Human Rights, and two of his aides, despite the fact that Urîtu has a residence in Transnistria
They were later released.

Transnistrian residents with automobiles registered in Moldova have seen their cars confiscated by Transnistrian authorities.

During the Moldovan municipal elections on June 3, 2007, the Transnistrian authorities prevented the inhabitants of Corjova, a village in the security zone under the administrative control of Chişinău, from participating in the elections. A local councillor, Iurie Cotofana, was arrested and beaten badly enough to require hospitalization. Corjova's mayor, Valeriu Miţul, - who was up for re-election -  received death threats. Valentin Besleag, a candidate for Corjova's mayoral office was also arrested.

In April 2010 the journalist Ernest Vardanean was arrested, being accused of espionage in favour of Moldova.

A similar case was that of Ilie Cazacu from Bender, arrested on 19 March 2010 for high treason and espionage in favour of Moldova. As the parents of Ilie Cazacu did not receive news about him, they started in June 2010 a hunger strike in front of the Russian Embassy in Chişinău. On 31 October 2011 Ilie Cazacu was pardoned by President Smirnov and released.

On 18 June 2010 Moldovan human rights organization Promo-Lex accused authorities of Transnistria in detaining Elena Dobroviţcaia from Bender, who was arrested allegedly because her mother went to a hospital in Chişinău instead of presenting herself at the request of the authorities from Bender. Attempts were made by Moldova's mass media to connect this situation with case of Ilie Cazacu. On 2 July 2010 Ministry of Interior of Transnistria published refutation, stating that Elena Dobroviţcaia was detained in temporary detention facility for 72 hours because during search at her flat 40 thousands rubles were found, probably belonging to her mother who was accused in fraud and theft. According to Ministry of Interior Elena was released after 72 hours of detainment.

See also
Media in Transnistria
Romanian-language schools in Transnistria
Russification
Anti-Romanian sentiment
Crime in Transnistria
LGBT rights in Transnistria
Human rights in Moldova

References

External links
Thomas Hammarberg Report on Human Rights in the Transnistrian Region of the Republic of Moldova UN, 2013
Transnistria's ombudsman
U.S. Department of State - 2005 Report about Human Rights in Moldova with references about Transnistria
Promolex NGO study about Human Rights in Transnistria (2012)
Freedom House report on Transnistria

 
Politics of Transnistria
History of Transnistria since 1991
-
Law of Transnistria