[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Georgia in the American Civil War

ully controlled by the Confederate government due to layout and deserter gangs.

During the same time, the backcountry of Pulaski, Montgomery, and Telfair  counties in the area of Gum Swamp Creek in modern-day Dodge County had become home to similar groups.

Debate over the use of slaves as soldiers

Late in the war, when it was suggested that the Confederacy use its slaves as soldiers, many Confederate newspapers, such as the Atlanta Southern Confederacy in Macon, vehemently objected to the idea of armed black men in the Confederate army, saying that it was incongruous with the Confederacy's goals and views regarding African Americans and slavery. The newspaper said that using black men as soldiers would be an embarrassment to Confederates and their children, saying that although African Americans should be used for slave labor, they should not be used as armed soldiers, opining that:

Georgian Confederates such as Democrat Howell Cobb supported the Macon newspaper's view, saying that the Confederates using black soldiers was "suicidal" and would run contrary to the Confederacy's ideology. Opposing such a move, Cobb stated that African Americans were untrustworthy and innately lacked the qualities to make good soldiers, and that using them would cause many Confederates to quit the army:

Despite these protests, a law to raise troops from the slave population was passed by the Confederate Congress on March 13, 1865.  By mid-April, a few recruiting stations had been established in Macon, Georgia, but the results of these efforts are unknown.

Battles in Georgia
Georgia was relatively free from warfare until late 1863. A total of nearly 550 battles and skirmishes occurred within the state, with the majority occurring in the last two years of the conflict. The first major battle in Georgia was a Confederate victory at the Battle of Chickamauga in 1863, which was the last major Confederate victory in the west. In 1864 Union general William T. Sherman's armies invaded Georgia as part of the Atlanta Campaign. Confederate general Joseph E. Johnston fought a series of battles, the largest being the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain, trying to delay Union armies for as long as possible as he retreated toward Atlanta. Johnston's replacement, Gen. John Bell Hood, attempted several unsuccessful counterattacks at the Battle of Peachtree Creek and the Battle of Atlanta, but Sherman captured Atlanta on September 2, 1864.

List of battles fought in Georgia

 Battle of Adairsville
 Battle of Allatoona
 Battle of Atlanta
 Battle of Brown's Mill
 Battle of Buck Head Creek
 Battle of Chickamauga
 Battle of Columbus
 Battle of Dallas
 Battle of Dalton I
 Battle of Dalton II
 Battle of Davis' Cross Roads
 Battle of Ezra Church
 Battle of Fort McAllister (1863)
 Battle of Fort McAllister (1864)
 Battle of Fort Pulaski
 Battle of Griswoldville
 Battle of Jonesborough
 Battle of Kennesaw Mountain
 Battle of Kolb's Farm
 Battle of Lovejoy's Station
 Battle of Marietta
 Battle of New Hope Church
 Battle of Peachtree Creek
 Battle of Pickett's Mill
 Battle of Resaca
 Battle of Ringgold Gap
 Battle of Rocky Face Ridge
 Battle of Utoy Creek
 Battle of Waynesboro

The Atlanta Campaign

Union Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman invaded Georgia from the vicinity of Chattanooga, Tennessee, beginning in May 1864, opposed by the Confederate general Joseph E. Johnston. Johnston's Army of Tennessee withdrew toward Atlanta in the face of successive flanking maneuvers by Sherman's group of armies. In July, Confederate president Jefferson Davis replaced Johnston with the more aggressive John Bell Hood, who began challenging the Union Army in a series of damaging frontal assaults. Hood's army was eventually besieged in Atlanta and the city fell on September 2, setting the stage for Sherman's March to the Sea and hastening the end of the war.

Sherman's March to the Sea

In November 1864, Sherman stripped his army of non-essentials, burned the city of Atlanta, and left it to the Confederates. He began his famous Sherman's March to the Sea, living off the land then burning plantations, wrecking railroads, killing livestock, and freeing slaves. Thousands of escaped slaves followed him as he entered Savannah on December 22. After the loss of Atlanta, the governor withdrew the state's militia from the Confederate forces to harvest crops for the state and the army. The militia did not try to stop Sherman.