[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of Shaman King characters

eir dedication to him. Following his defeat by Yoh, Ryu ends up being possessed by Tokagero while finding a potential hang out at a rundown bowling alley in Funbari. After being saved by Yoh, Ryu became a devoted friend with aspirations of becoming a chef once the Funbari Hot Springs is established.

After the incident, Anna reveals that Ryu has great potential to be a shaman as he left Funbari for an unspecified time while undergoing training by Yoh's grandfather Yohmei to become a shaman with a redeemed Tokagero as his spirit ally. Ryu joins the group in the Shaman Fight as a member of Team Funbari Hot Springs with his resourcefulness and devotion to his friends being his strong points. While Ryu expresses the desire to become Shaman King for the sake of finding his own "Shaman Queen," he fully supports Yoh because he believes that Yoh is the sort of person who can make the world a "Best Place" for everyone. At the conclusion of the series, he works as a chef at the Funbari Hot Springs while looking after Yoh and Anna's son Hana.

Johann Faust VIII

Hailing from Heidelberg Germany,  is the eighth-generation descendant of the legendary Doctor Faustus, who made a deal with the devil Mephistopheles for his necromancy skills along with youth and riches for seven years in exchange for his immortal soul. Faustus' descendants, including Faust VIII, distanced themselves from their ancestor's legacy, turning to the profession of medicine and regarding Faustus as a taboo within the family.

Following family tradition, Faust VIII studied medicine and fell deeply in love with a young woman named Eliza, who had an incurable disease. Faust's perseverance eventually paid off as he cured Eliza and they married, only for Eliza to be shot dead by a robber. Faust lost his mind and turns to his ancestor's forbidden legacy to resurrect Eliza with necromancy with her skeleton as a medium, but was only able to conjure an image of her using his furyoku. His motivation to become Shaman King is in hopes of fully resurrecting Eliza and is utterly single-minded about achieving his goal.

Yoh is defeated by Faust in the Shaman Fight's second fight. Because he is self-taught, Anna recognizes Faust's talents and forces Yoh to accept him as the third member of Team Funbari Hot Spring after she summons Eliza's ghost; her ulterior motive is apparently to have Faust eventually become team's doctor. Reunited with his beloved Eliza, Faust becomes dedicated to Yoh and Anna out of sincere gratitude, utilizing his shamanic and medical skills to support Yoh and becomes powerful enough to resurrect the dead after training with the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu. Despite appearing as the weakest member of Yoh's team, Faust is highly ingenious; in battle he replaces his missing legs with the skeleton of his pet dog, Frankenstiney, to regain his mobility and during the invasion of the Plants, he composes the "Funbari Poem" song as a counter to the officiants' Patch Song.

The embodiment of complete dedication, Faust's greatest strengths are his selflessness and pure-hearted spirit; like Yoh, he will not hesitate to save his enemies if he can. Beyond his emotional instability, particularly when Eliza is insulted or threatened, he is completely rational and will not tolerate interruptions while working. At the conclusion of the series, Faust is killed during the invasion of the Plants while fighting the officiant Radim, but his spirit continues to accompany and support Yoh, who integrates with his spirit to utilize Faust's shamanic healing abilities. Though he is initially resurrected after the conclusion of the final battle, he collapses soon afterward from exhaustion. He elects not to be revived in order to remain with Eliza in the Great Spirit. To honor his memory, his "Funbari Poem" jingle is used as the theme song for the inn and the Funbari Onsen staff place his portrait in their family shrine.

Team The Ren
 is a team formed by Tao Ren during the second round of the Shaman Fights.

Tao Ren

, known as Len Tao in the 4Kids English dub of the 2001 anime and video games based on that adaptation, is a Chinese shaman who is Yoh's rival and later of Team The Ren during the tournament section of the Shaman Fight. He is confident in his strength and does not directly accept help from others out of pride, though these qualities along with his short-temper and impatience are often limit his abilities. After meeting Yoh, Ren's strong sense of pride moves towards his ability to protect his friends, whom he cares for deeply despite frequently arguing and fighting with them. His most notable trait is the distinctive single spike in his hairstyle.