[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Islamic Courts Union

oads and junctions in the city, once notorious for severe traffic congestion, flowed smoothly. The courts deployed personnel to regulate traffic and dismantle roadblocks, bringing about a notable improvement in the city's traffic flow. Prices of goods would significantly drop in the weeks following.

By 19 June 2006, the ICU founded several clinics and schools in the city. Commenting on the state of education in the wake of the takeover, The Economist noted, "...school attendance is rising, particularly among girls." The courts also made strides towards patching together neighborhoods that had been divided by the civil war. Mogadishu International Airport, which had been closed since the withdrawal of UNOSOM II forces in 1995, was reopened by the courts on 15 July 2006. On the 25 August the courts also reopened the historic seaport, which had been one of the busiest in ports in all of East Africa.  The formation of a sanitation committee and the organization of a substantial clean-up campaign on 20 July 2006 resulted in the first clearing of war debris and rubbish from Mogadishu's streets in over a decade. This successful initiative was further expanded to regions surrounding the capital. 
During the ICU's brief control of southern Somalia, the organization made numerous declarations condemning discrimination against what the courts considered to be "oppressed clans" (e.g., Yibir, Madhibaan and Jareer) as un-Islamic and haram. The courts deliberately orchestrated marriages between women from discriminated groups to men from larger Somali clans in order to challenge popular perceptions. While many of the initial Mogadishu courts were linked to the Hawiye clan, the ICU took deliberate measures to ensure clan bias did not influence legal proceedings. This approach ultimately earned them a reputation for impartiality.

The ICU created a coast guard and pirate activity completely ceased due to aggressive anti-piracy operations they conducted. According to courts officials, the organization was sending large contingents of troops into the central Somali regions to crack down on pirate operations based there. In one notable incident, ICU forces stormed a hijacked United Arab Emirates registered ship, and recaptured it after a battle with the pirates aboard the vessel.

ICU offensive and Ethiopian military intervention 

With its newfound position of authority, the ICU seized on its popularity and began pushing deep into the regions surrounding the city for the first time. Their offensive capability was greatly aided by new weaponry it had captured from the warlords – most of which had been bought with U.S. funds. During the summer of 2006, the ICU was allegedly being given support by Eritrea, Djibouti, Iran, Libya, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Syria.

On 16 June 2006, Shabeelle Media Network reported that sources in Ethiopia's Somali Region had witnessed a massing of ENDF 'heavy armoured vehicles' along all the border towns on the Ethiopian–Somali border.

First deployment of Ethiopian forces 
On 17 June, local Somali officials and residents in Gedo region reported about 50 Ethiopian armored vehicles had passed through the border town of Dolow and pushed 50 km inland near the town of Luuq. Although the Ethiopian government denied claims of ENDF forces crossing the border, residents in towns within Somalia reported encounters with Ethiopian troops inquiring whether the ICU had reached the area.

ICU head Sheik Sharif Sheik Ahmed claimed that 300 Ethiopian troops had entered the country through the border town of Dolow in Gedo region that morning in support of the TFG, and that Ethiopian forces had also been probing Somali border towns. He would go on to threaten to fight Ethiopian troops if they continued intervening and further stated, “We want the whole world to know what’s going on. The United States is encouraging Ethiopia to take over the area. Ethiopia has crossed our borders and are heading for us.” Sharif stated that the courts had no intention of attacking Ethiopia, but claimed that Ethiopian forces had 'brought war' by beginning an incursion into Somalia. The Ethiopian government would deny the deployment of its forces in Somalia and countered that the ICU was marching towards its borders. The TFG denied accusations of an Ethiopian military deployment counter claiming that ICU was fabricating a pretext to assault its capital in Baidoa.

On June 24, Hassan Dahir Aweys was named head of the ICUs newly formed 88 member parliament, the Council of the Islamic Courts. Several days later Aweys stated in an interview with Agence France Presse, "We are ready for partnership with the Americans. We would like to work with them if they respect us and stop interfering with Somali internal affairs,"