[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# TT1

were accompanied by a wide variety of objects. Both coffined and uncoffined mummies were placed against the west wall of the chamber, while funerary equipment such as disassembled funerary shrines, canopic chests, and ushabti, were mixed with work tools, boxes, vases, furniture, food, and bouquets.

Eduardo Toda y Güell became responsible for the clearance of the tomb and Jan Herman Insinger did the photography. The tomb was cleared in three days by Toda and seven workers. Having bought the discoverers' out of their half of the find, the entire contents of the burial chamber, some 165 objects by Toda's count, were loaded onto the Antiquities Service's dahabeah Boulaq for transport to the Boulaq Museum in Cairo. A stool was broken and the uncoffined mummies were damaged during transport to the boat, prompting Toda to only keep their heads. Once in Cairo, a sample of representative or unique items were kept for the museum while the rest was sold at the direction of Maspero to provide funds for further excavation work elsewhere in Egypt.

After the clearance of the tomb in 1886, the Antiquities Service closed the base of the shaft with a metal mesh door. The next archaeological work was carried out in 1917 when Jacques Lecomte du Nouÿ cleared the two other shafts within the courtyard. The complex as a whole was excavated by Bernard Bruyère between 1924 and 1930. He partially cleared the courtyard in 1924-25 and re-excavated the associated shafts in 1928. A full report of his work was published in 1959.

Architecture
The subterranean parts of TT1 are accessed via a  deep vertical shaft cut into the courtyard in front of Sennedjem's chapel. Niches are cut into the walls of the shaft to allow access without a ladder. The shaft opens to the west onto an undecorated room measuring . Anciently, a (wooden) door closed the shaft from the rest of the sepulchre; the limestone lintel and doorjambs named Sennedjem, Iyneferti, Khabekhnet, and Khonsu. This room is divided in half by a modern brick wall built in 1890 for a barred door to secure the tomb. Continuing west, four descending steps access a further chamber  square  with a vaulted ceiling  high. Based on the finds of pottery in this vaulted room, it probably functioned as a storeroom for funerary offerings. Three further rooms are accessed via passages cut into the floor near the walls. The shaft against the south wall leads to another smaller storeroom approximately  long; it contained plain ceramics. A short shaft against the western wall leads to another undecorated room that measures  with a flat ceiling  tall. It is roughly cut and unfinished; it was probably intended to be a burial chamber, either the original burial chamber or one cut later when the existing chamber became full.

The burial chamber used by Sennedjem and his family is accessed via a  deep shaft near the north wall; niches are cut into the sides as with the main shaft. It was closed with a stone slab at the time of discovery. At the base of the shaft was a wooden door set into an inscribed limestone door frame. Beyond this was the burial chamber, a rectangular room measuring  with a vaulted ceiling  tall. It is lined with mudbricks and coated with plaster to provide a smooth background for decoration.

Decoration

The walls and ceiling of the burial chamber, an area of , are entirely covered with paintings. They are well preserved and are considered "among the most beautiful of the necropolis and, at all events, the best known". As is typical of Deir el-Medina, the scenes are "devoted largely to religious and mythological themes", in this case vignettes from the Book of the Dead. The floor of the chamber is painted red. The decoration is executed on a yellow background, suggested by Hany Farid and Samir Farid to recall the papyrus used for funerary texts; Kathlyn M. Cooney sees it as giving the burial chamber solar connotations, directly inspired by the "golden room" seen in royal tombs. The layout of the decoration reflects the journey of the deceased through the Underworld and their rebirth into the Afterlife, with the decoration and texts flowing from west to east on each wall, ending with the depiction of Sennedjem and Iyneferti in Aaru, the afterlife. Rogerio Sousa takes this death-to-rebirth interpretation further, interpreting the decoration as flowing from the left side of the doorway, along the two long walls, then the two short walls, then the ceiling and back to the right side of the doorway, covering the death, underworld journey and eventual rebirth of the deceased following the solar cycle.