[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Energy Charter Treaty

compromise text; a complicating factor was that energy issues, including transit, were a subject on the bilateral agenda for the European Union and Russia in the context of Russian negotiations for accession to the World Trade Organization. The Protocol negotiations were then temporarily suspended.

In December 2007, the Energy Charter Conference reaffirmed its support for the finalisation of negotiations and adoption of the Energy Charter Protocol on Transit to expand the existing provisions of the treaty. This work proceeded until October 2011, when the European Union argued that, given current developments in the international energy situation and the lack of progress in negotiations and consultations, it appeared no longer opportune to continue talks. A review of the issue at the end of 2015 noted the continued demand for a multilateral legally-binding framework for energy transit, and recommended further exploring the basis for negotiations of such an agreement, which could address various aspects of oil, gas and electricity transportation and transit.

The Energy Charter Treaty includes an obligation of member countries to facilitate energy transit across their territory, in line with the principle of freedom of transit, and to secure established transit flows. At the same time, the treaty provisions do not oblige any country to introduce mandatory third-party access.

The principle of national sovereignty
The principles of the Energy Charter are based on the idea that international flows of investments and technologies in the energy sector are mutually beneficial. But at the same time, national sovereignty over energy resources is a core principle of the treaty (ECT Article 18). An objective of the treaty is to promote transparency and efficiency in the operation of energy markets, but it is for governments to define the structure of their domestic energy sector. Each country is free to decide whether and how its national energy resources are developed, and the extent to which its energy sector is open to foreign investors. The treaty does not deal with the ownership issues of the energy companies–there is no obligation to privatise state-owned energy companies, or to break up vertically integrated energy companies.

Membership
Members are countries and Regional Economic Integration Organisations are a party to the treaty through ratification or accession. Membership also includes signatories which provisionally apply the treaty pending entry into force. Such provisional application applies automatically after signature, unless it is inconsistent with the domestic law of the country concerned. As October 2022, the treaty has 51 parties, while it is provisionally applied by two countries. All Members have ratified the treaty except for Australia, Belarus, Norway, and the Russian Federation. Belarus has accepted provisional application of the treaty.

Members of the Energy Charter Conference

Russia and Australia provisionally applied the treaty, but indicated the end of the provisional application period in 2009 and 2021 respectively. Italy was a party to the treaty from 1998 until 2016. In October 2022, a minister from the Netherlands announced his intention to facilitate withdrawal from the treaty. On 21October 2022, French President Emmanuel Macron also announced France's withdrawal from the treaty. One month later, the German government also expressed its intent to leave the accord. See also announced withdrawals below.

Note: * denotes a state that has signed the treaty and is applying it provisionally but has not ratified it, and  denotes a state that has announced that it will withdraw from the treaty.

Observers
Observers status is granted to countries and Regional Economic Integration Organisations that have signed either the European Energy Charter or the International Energy Charter. Observers have the right to attend all Charter meetings and to receive all related documentation, reports and analysis, and to participate in the working debates taking place within the Energy Charter. Also, International Organisations can be granted Observer status by decision of the Energy Charter Conference. The intention is that Observer status should provide the chance for a country to familiarise itself with the Charter and its functions, to facilitate its assessment of the benefits of accession to the Energy Charter Treaty.

Countries
Signatories of European Energy Charter (1991)

Signatories of the International Energy Charter (2015)

International organisations

Former members 

  (signed 1991, withdrawn 2016)

Russian participation