[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International Commission on Occupational Health

and NGOs to raise awareness of the asbestos hazard and to highlight the long-term economic benefits of transferring to non-asbestos technologies.
The "Bangkok Declaration", recalling the ILO resolution on Asbestos, the ILO Conventions on Occupational Cancer (No. 139), the Safety in the Use of Asbestos, the WHO Global Strategy on Occupational Health for All and the WHA Resolution 58.22 on Cancer Prevention and Control and considering the ICOH International Code of Ethics for Occupational Health Professionals, declared the support of its signatories for a global asbestos ban and was widely disseminated through many networks.
For the triennium 2009–2012, a new ICOH Working Group on the Elimination of Asbestos-related Diseases was set. The Working Group  mainly focused on examining the existing regulations and bans in order to develop specific recommendation for actions and guidelines.
ICOH continued its efforts on this specific issue through the ICOH Statement: Global Asbestos Ban and the Elimination of Asbestos-Related Diseases.To accomplish such elimination, ICOH urges each and every individual country to implement a total ban on production and use of asbestos. ICOH also urges complementary efforts aimed at primary, secondary and tertiary prevention of asbestos-related diseases through country-specific “National Programmes for Elimination of Asbestos-Related Diseases” in line with ILO and WHO guidelines.
 
At the national level the expert input of ICOH members to the decisions concerning the ban of asbestos can be found for example in Finland, Sweden, Germany, Japan and Norway.
The ICOH members also were most instrumental in production of the "Asbestos, asbestosis, and cancer: the Helsinki criteria for diagnosis and attribution"- a document that has been taken in use in everyday practices in diagnosing, recognition and compensation of asbestos related diseases and has also been used in courts in some countries in defence of victims of the diseased persons. ICOH members also train the experts in occupational medicine and safety by using the research and criteria documents as a support for education.

ICOH Core Documents 

ICOH Constitution
ICOH Bye-Laws
ICOH Code of Ethics
ICOH Good Association Practice

See also 

 Occupational health psychology
 Occupational medicine
 Occupational safety and health
 Total Worker Health

References

External links 
 ICOH Homepage
 ICOH Heritage Repository
 ICOH on Twitter 
 WHO, Statement by the International Commission on Occupational Health 29 June 2021
 FAO, International Congress for Occupational Health: Supporting a breakthrough against child labour in agriculture, 2 March 2022
 ILO, ICOH declaration on the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, 27 April 2014
 INAIL, Partnership description, 16 February 2016

Occupational safety and health organizations
Asbestos
International professional associations
Occupational health psychology