[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dawut Abdurehim

declined to be interviewed by the Palauns.  In the end the government of Palau offered asylum to twelve of the remaining thirteen Uyghurs. Palau declined to offer asylum to one of the Uyghurs who suffered from a mental disorder, brought on by detention, that was too profound to be treated in Palau.

On October 31, 2009, Abdulrehim, Ahmad Tourson, Abdul Ghappar Abdul Rahman, Edham Mamet, Anwar Hassan, and Adel Noori were released and transferred to Palau.

On June 29, 2015, Nathan Vanderklippe, reporting in The Globe and Mail, wrote that all the Uyghurs had quietly left Palau.
The Globe confirmed that Palau's agreement to give refuge to the Uyghurs was reached after the USA agreed to various secret payments.  Those payments included $93,333 to cover each Uyghurs living expenses.  The Globe confirmed that controversy still surrounded former President Johnson Toribiong who had used some of those funds to billet the Uyghurs in houses belonging to his relatives.

Vanderklippe reported that the men had never felt they could fit in with the Palauns.  
Some of the men compared Palau with a lusher, larger Guantanamo.  Some of the men were able to bring their wives to Palau.  Attempts to hold most regular jobs failed, due to cultural differences.  Attempts to use their traditional leather-working skills to be self-employed failed.  Eventually, all six men were employed as night-time security guards, a job that did not require interaction with Palauns.

Tragically, one of the men's young toddler, conceived and born on Palau, died after he fell off a balcony.  
According to Vanderklippe, the men's departure from Palau was quietly arranged with the cooperation of American officials.  He reported they left, one or two at a time, on commercial flights.  Palaun officials would not share the Uyghurs' destination(s).

References

External links 
 From Guantánamo to the United States: The Story of the Wrongly Imprisoned Uighurs Andy Worthington October 9, 2008
 Judge Ricardo Urbina’s unclassified opinion (redacted version)
 MOTIONS/STATUS HEARING - UIGHURS CASES BEFORE THE HONORABLE RICARDO M. URBINA
 Palau Uyghurs try to build new lives Kyodo News December 15, 2009

Chinese extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Uyghurs
Living people
Year of birth uncertain
Guantanamo detainees known to have been released
1974 births
Chinese refugees