[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 27]
# World War I

lles. World WarII was in part a continuation of the power struggle never fully resolved by World WarI. Furthermore, it was common for Germans in the 1930s to justify acts of aggression due to perceived injustices imposed by the victors of World WarI. American historian William Rubinstein wrote that:

The 'Age of Totalitarianism' included nearly all the infamous examples of genocide in modern history, headed by the Jewish Holocaust, but also comprising the mass murders and purges of the Communist world, other mass killings carried out by Nazi Germany and its allies, and also the Armenian Genocide of 1915. All these slaughters, it is argued here, had a common origin, the collapse of the elite structure and normal modes of government of much of central, eastern and southern Europe as a result of World WarI, without which surely neither Communism nor Fascism would have existed except in the minds of unknown agitators and crackpots.

See also 

 Lists of World War I topics
 List of military engagements of World War I
 Outline of World War I
 World War I casualties
 World war

Footnotes

References

Bibliography 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Deals with technical developments, including the first dipping hydrophones

External links 

 Links to other WWI Sites, worldwide links from Brigham Young U.
 The World War One Document Archive, from Brigham Young U.
 International Encyclopedia of the First World War
 Records on the outbreak of World War I from the UK Parliamentary Collections
 The Heritage of the Great War / First World War. Graphic color photos, pictures and music
 A multimedia history of World War I
 European Newspapers from the start of the First World War and the end of the war
 WWI Films on the European Film Gateway
 The British Pathé WW1 Film Archive 
 World War I British press photograph collection – A sampling of images distributed by the British government during the war to diplomats overseas, from the UBC Library Digital Collections
 Personal accounts of American World War I veterans, Veterans History Project, Library of Congress.

Library guides 
 National Library of New Zealand
 State Library of New South Wales
 US Library of Congress
 Indiana University Bloomington 
 New York University 
 University of Alberta
 California State Library, California History Room. Collection: California. State Council of Defense. California War History Committee. Records of Californians who served in World War I, 1918–1922.

 
World Wars
War
Articles containing video clips
Global conflicts
Russo-Turkish wars
Wars involving Armenia
Wars involving Australia
Wars involving Azerbaijan
Wars involving Belgium
Wars involving Bolivia
Wars involving Brazil
Wars involving British India
Wars involving Bulgaria
Wars involving Canada
Wars involving Costa Rica
Wars involving Cuba
Wars involving France
Wars involving Germany
Wars involving Greece
Wars involving Guatemala
Wars involving Haiti
Wars involving Honduras
Wars involving Ireland
Wars involving Italy
Wars involving Japan
Wars involving Korea
Wars involving Liberia
Wars involving Malta
Wars involving Montenegro
Wars involving Nepal
Wars involving New Zealand
Wars involving Nicaragua
Wars involving Panama
Wars involving Portugal
Wars involving Rhodesia
Wars involving Romania
Wars involving the Russian Empire
Wars involving Soviet Russia (1917–1922)
White movement
Wars involving Serbia
Wars involving South Africa
Wars involving Sri Lanka
Wars involving Sudan
Wars involving Taiwan
Wars involving Thailand
Wars involving the Habsburg monarchy
Wars involving the Ottoman Empire
Wars involving the Republic of China
Wars involving the states and peoples of Oceania
Wars involving the United Kingdom
Wars involving the United States
Wars involving Slovenia