[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Vernon Davis

d commercial spaces including interiors and landscape architecture. Davis also owns a chain of Jamba Juice franchises.

In December 2012, Davis opened Gallery 85 on Santana Row in San Jose, California. Gallery 85 is an art gallery for new and emerging artists giving them access to high-end exposure.

In October 2013, it was reported that Davis would be offering stock in his future earnings via a venture with Fantex as part of a new financial instrument being sold by Fantex. Davis planned to offer a 10% share of all future earnings from his brand marketing company to Fantex, which would then turn around and divide it into shares of a tracking stock that can be traded within their own exchange. In January 2014, the stock offering was confirmed. The proposed offering was 421,100 shares, valued at $10 per share, for a total proposed valuation worth $4.2 million.

Media appearances
In 2013, Davis made a cameo appearance in the music video for the song "Get Lo" by Ron Artest and Mike Jones.

Davis made an appearance on Pretty Wild, and Whose Line is it Anyway? in 2015.

Davis hosted the reunion and behind-the scenes special for MTV's The Challenge: Total Madness, both of which aired in July 2020. In September 2020, Davis was announced as one of the celebrities competing in the 29th season of Dancing with the Stars. He partnered with Peta Murgatroyd and was the fifth couple eliminated from the competition, lasting six weeks.

On April 28, 2021, Davis returned as the host for the two-part reunion of The Challenge: Double Agents.

In March and April 2022, Davis served as a judge for Season 1 of Domino Masters on Fox.

Davis also starred in the crime thriller The Ritual Killer as "Randoku", which was released on March 10, 2023. The movie is about a detective hunting for an international murderer committing ritualistic killings in a small Mississippi town. The movie stars Morgan Freeman and Cole Hauser.

Vernon Davis on backing AI sports prediction platform Smart Picks. Smart Picks is a sports prediction platform that will utilize artificial intelligence and machine learning to predict outcomes.  https://www.sportsbusinessjournal.com/Articles/2023/08/14/vernon-davis.aspx SmartPicks.ai

In 2022, it was announced that Davis would star in the comedy film Plan B, alongside Jon Heder, Tom Berenger, and Shannon Elizabeth.

References

External links

 Maryland Terrapins bio
 

1984 births
African-American players of American football
American football tight ends
Denver Broncos players
Living people
Maryland Terrapins football players
National Conference Pro Bowl players
Players of American football from Washington, D.C.
San Francisco 49ers players
Unconferenced Pro Bowl players
Washington Redskins players
Dunbar High School (Washington, D.C.) alumni
21st-century African-American sportspeople
20th-century African-American people