[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Menachem Mendel of Rimanov

was zealous in demanding adherence to the laws of Jewish modesty. He insisted on men and women retaining traditional Jewish garb and not emulating any modern styles, especially with regard to ostentatious clothing. The Rebbe's strict guidelines ultimately became the set standard of Chassidic dress.

Rebbe Menachem Mendel was anguished by the exile of the Jewish people from their homeland, maintaining they could only reach their full spiritual potential in the Land of Israel, and anticipated the coming of the Messiah. Towards the end of his life, the Rimanover associated Napoleon with Gog and Magog, and he prayed for his victory, which he believed would usher the Messianic age. Legend has it the Rebbe's form appeared to Napoleon in dreams as long as the latter was under Divine protection.

Family
Rebbe Menachem Mendel married Rivka, the daughter of a wealthy merchant from Frysztak. Their children:

1. Rabbi Nosson Leib Torem (d. 1846) of Rymanow.

2. Rabbi Yisrael Yaakov Torem (d. 1827), Av Beit Din of Bilyi Kamin.

3. Feige, married R' Klonimos of Lancut.

4. Chana, married R' Mordechai, Av Beit Din of Rymanow.

Legacy
Rebbe Menachem Mendel died on May 29 (19th of Iyar), 1815. His sons refused to succeed him and the dynasty was later assumed by the Rebbe's former servant, Rav Tzvi Hersh Hakohen of Rimanov (1778-1846), called Reb Tzvi Hersh Meshares, author of Be'eros Hamayim.

Rebbe Menachem Mendel's Torah commentary was first published in Menachem Zion (Chernivtsi, 1851), based on notes taken by his student Rav Yechezkel Paneth. Other compilations of the Rebbe's Torah were published in Divrei Menachem (Lviv, 1863), Ilana deChaye (Piotrków, 1908), and have been reprinted. The commentaries were translated in English as The Torah Discourses of the Holy Tzaddik Reb Menachem Mendel of Rimanov (New Jersey, 1997).

The earliest stories about the Rimanover Rebbe were first published in Ahron Marcus' Der Chassidismus (Pleszew, 1901) and Berel Ehrmann's Devarim Areivim Vol. 1 (Munkacz, 1904). The first official biography Ateres Menachem (Bilgoraj, 1910), published by Tzvi Yechezkel Michelson, was followed by Yekutiel Kamelhar's Beis Menachem (Tarnow, 1927) and Aharon Roth's Menachem Tzion (Satu Mare, 1935). Other biographies include Matityahu Guttman's Rabi Mendel mi-Rimanov (Tel Aviv, 1953), Menashe Unger's Die Chassidishe Velt (New York, 1955), Rebbe Menachem Mendel fun Rimanov (Jerusalem, 1987), and Chaim David Bacon's Rebbe Mendele Rimanover (New York, 1988).

There are several shuls (synagogues) named Rimanov, either by followers of the Rimanover hasidim, or led by descendants of Rebbe Menachem Mendel and his successor Rebbe Tzvi Hersh.
 Brooklyn, New York: 
"Toras Menachem of Rimanov", led by Rabbi Mendel Goldberger (a descendant of Rebbe Menachem Mendel) at 104 Spencer Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn. This synagogue is uniquely known for the many Minyanim performed simultaneously (there could be up to 4 services performed in a single Friday night).
"Beeros HaMayim", led by Rabbi Chaim Elazar Wassertheil, Rimanover Rebbe (a descendant of both Rebbe Menachem Mendel and Rebbe Tzvi Hersh), at 1870 53rd Street. 
Cong. Menachem Zion Yotzei Russia, led by Rabbi Avraham Reich, (a descendant of Rebbe Menachem Mendel), at 928 44th Street.  
 Jerusalem
 Rabbi Chaim Yaakov Frankel, Rimanover Rebbe (a descendant of Rebbe Tzvi Hersh), leads a network of kollels.

Rebbe Mendele's Ohel in Rymanow is a regular pilgrimage site for Chassidim. The original Ohel and tombstone were destroyed in the Holocaust and rebuilt after the war with an inscription based on the text preserved in Chassidic literature.

References

Further reading

Meorei Galicia: Encyclopedia of Galician Sages by Rabbi Meir Wunder [Hebrew]

Encyclopedia of Hasidism, by Yitzchak Alfasi [Hebrew]

Encyclopedia of Hasidism, Tzvi Rabinowicz

YIVO entry Menahem Mendel of Rimanov

Four Chassidic Masters Abraham J. Twerski. New York: Artscroll, 2008.

1745 births
1815 deaths
Hasidic rebbes