[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# German occupation of Luxembourg during World War I

Peace Conference, the Belgian delegation argued in favour of the international community allowing Belgium to annex Luxembourg.  However, fearing loss of influence over the left bank of the Rhine, France rejected Belgium's overtures out of hand, thus guaranteeing Luxembourg's continued independence.

The resulting Treaty of Versailles set aside two articles (§40 and §41) to address concerns for  Luxembourg's status.  The main article, §40, revoked all special privileges that Germany had acquired in Luxembourg, with Germany specifically renouncing advantages gained in the treaties of 1842, 1847, 1865, 1866, February 1867, May 1867, 1871, 1872, and 1902.  The effects of these treaties' revocation were then explicitly stated; Luxembourg would withdraw from the Zollverein, Germany would lose its right to use the Luxembourgish railways, and Germany was obligated to recognise the termination of Luxembourg's neutrality, thus validating the actions of the Luxembourgish government since the armistice.  Furthermore, to prevent economic embargo after the end of the customs union, the treaty allowed Luxembourg an indefinite option on German coal, and prohibited Germany from levying duty on Luxembourgish exports until 1924.

Luxembourgers overseas 
Thousands of Luxembourgers overseas, unconstrained by the Luxembourgish government's need to remain neutral, signed up to serve with foreign armies.  3,700 Luxembourgish nationals served in the French Army, of whom over 2,000 died.  As Luxembourg's pre-war population was only 266,000, the loss of life solely in the service of the French army amounted to almost 1 per cent of the entire Luxembourgish population, relatively greater than the totals for many combatant countries (see: World War I casualties).  The Luxembourgish volunteers are commemorated by the Gëlle Fra (literally  'Golden Lady' ) war memorial, which was unveiled in Luxembourg City on 27 May 1923.  The original memorial was destroyed on 20 October 1940, during the Nazi occupation, as it symbolised the rejection of German identity and active resistance against Germanisation.  After World War II, it was gradually rebuilt, culminating in its second unveiling, on 23 June 1985.

The Luxembourgish community in the United States found itself confronted  by a crisis of identity.  Traditionally, they had identified themselves as ethnically German, rather than as a separate community of their own. As such, they read German language newspapers, attended German schools, and lived amongst German Americans.  Nonetheless, when it became apparent that the war would not be over quickly, the opinions of Luxembourg Americans changed; on 2 May 1915, the Luxemburger Brotherhood of America's annual convention decided to adopt English as its only official language.  Other organisations were less inclined to change their ways; the Luxemburger Gazette opposed President Woodrow Wilson's supposed 'favouritism' towards the United Kingdom as late in the war as 1917.  However, when the United States entered the war in April of that year, the wavering members of the community supported the Allies, changing forever the relationship between the German and Luxembourgish communities in the US.

See also

 German occupation of Luxembourg during World War II

Footnotes 
Links to many of the cited primary sources, including speeches, telegrams, and despatches, can be found in the 'References' section.

References and further reading 
  German occupation of Luxembourg.  GWPDA, 21 May 1998.  Retrieved on 2006-07-23.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Invasions of Luxembourg
German military occupations
Germany–Luxembourg military relations