[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Winchester, Virginia, in the American Civil War

on Apple Pie Ridge west of Apple Pie Ridge Road (on modern James Wood High School grounds).
 Battery No. 8: A grouping of a lunette and redans with infantry works west of Fort Alabama (Battery 3) and east of Battery No. 7.
 Battery No. 9: The location is unknown, however this may have been a lunette

Camps
 Camp Hill: A Confederal and Federal camp located in the modern Overlook Park on the south side of Winchester east of South Loudoun Street.
 Smithfield Trench Line: This was a mile-long Confederate trench line with ramparts built in a 90-degree angle northwest of Winchester and south of Fort Collier, used during the Third Battle of Winchester.
 Camp Russell: Camp Russell was a two mile long encampment with earthworks and trenches straddling the Valley Pike south of Winchester, just south of the intersection of modern VA 37 and Interstate 81.  Carysbrooke Redoubt formed a part of this encampment.
 Camp Sheridan: Camp Sheridan and two accompanying small forts were located southwest of Winchester (centered on the intersection of modern Middle Road and Apple Valley Road). One fort was located west of the Middle Road and Apple Valley Road intersection, and the second fort was located just north of modern Firelock Court on Middle Road.
 CSA Camp: A Confederate encampment was located north of the Northwest Turnpike along modern Spinning Wheel Lane.
 Federal Camp: A Federal encampment was located north of the Northwest Turnpike along modern Echo Lane.

Field hospitals
 Sheridan Field Hospital: This was a field hospital used by MajGen. Sheridan on the southeast corner of town on Opequon Avenue near Hollingsworth Drive.  It was the largest field hospital operated by the Federals in the Civil War.
 White Sulphur Resort: also known as Jordan Springs, was a hotel and resort facility built by the property owner Branch Jordan in 1843 and 1855.  Hotel operations ceased during the war while it was used by both sides as a hospital. The buildings remain to this day on Jordan Springs Road in Stephenson, Virginia just north of Winchester.

Field prisons
 Old Court House: The Old Court House in downtown Winchester was used as both a temporary prison and field hospital by both sides during the war.

Headquarters
 Stonewall Jackson's Headquarters: This house which belonged to Colonel Moore of the Virginia Militia is preserved as the Stonewall Jackson Headquarters Museum today.  Located at 415 North Braddock Street, it served as the winter headquarters for Stonewall Jackson during 1861 and 1862.
 General Philip H. Sheridan's Headquarters:'      Sheridan utilized the Logan family home as his headquarters during the latter part of the 1864 Shenandoah Valley campaign. Sheridan began his famous ride here to rally his troops to victory at Cedar Creek on October 19, 1864.  The home is located at 135 N. Braddock St.

Civil War tourism
Today, Winchester provides a wealth of exploration and tourism for Civil War enthusiasts. Jubal Early Drive snakes around south of downtown Winchester, along the central location for many of the battles.

Civil War Tourism Sites:
 Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park (1797)
 Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area
 Museum of the Shenandoah Valley
 Old Court House Civil War Museum (1840)
 Stonewall Cemetery (1866)
 Stonewall Jackson's Headquarters Museum (1861)
 Winchester Confederate Cemetery
 Winchester National Cemetery (1866)
 Kernstown Battlefield (1862-1865)

Interesting facts

The flag of Winchester

The modern flag of the city of Winchester closely resembles the first congressionally proposed national flag of the Confederate States of America.  Both flags were composed of a field of red, upon which a saltire (Saint Andrew's Cross) is laid, with a heraldic shield in the center of the flag.  The primary differences in the flags are the addition of a center blue saltire, and an English "Norman" lion instead of a 13-pointed star on the shield in the Winchester flag.  The Confederate congress failed to accept the flag proposal of the Joint Committee on Flag and Seal in April 1862, and went on to adopt the "Stars and Bars" flag.

Notes

See also

 Burning of Winchester Medical College
 Journey Through Hallowed Ground National Heritage Area