[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Kaaterskill High Peak

evation. The trail is marked and even signed as it passes through some picturesque maple forests into state land, reaching the snowmobile trail at another cairned junction.

The ascent from that point follows the same route and terrain described in the southern approach above.

Other possible routes

Sometimes the summit is approached from Round Top by staying along the ridgeline, during trips where both peaks are climbed. Daring hikers sometimes bushwhack straight up from the loop plane crash to the other one, on the cliffs east of the summit. This requires going over a series of outcrops with risks similar to those found to the south of the summit. It is also possible to make a long approach from the northwest via unmarked trail through Cortina Valley (past the former ski resort). The chief challenge in following this route is routefinding on the ledges to the northeast of Round Top, where the unwary hiker can easily reach a dead end and have to backtrack.  

Summit

The summit of Kaaterskill High Peak is a small, viewless grassy clearing surrounded by boreal forest. A rock in the center holds a reference marker for two nearby United States Geological Survey benchmarks at the  elevation marking the highest point on the mountain; the bolts themselves are on rocks in the nearby woods (one is on the southern trail five feet from the peak, the other is about  to the south in the woods).

Points of interest

Several other attractions on and around High Peak, besides its summit, have drawn hikers to the mountain and been the subject of detours.

Hurricane Ledge

Since the summit offers no views, most hikers choose to take their reward at this wide, open area above a sheer cliff on the south side of the mountain about  from the summit. Indian Head and Twin mountains in the Devil's Path can be seen to the immediate south (the latter's summit appearing lower than High Peak even though it is not), with Plateau bookending them to the west. On the east, the Catskills drop away dramatically into the clove and a long section of the Hudson is visible.

The area is named either for the 1950 storm that supposedly cleared the view by blowing most of the trees down, or for the strong winds felt due to the absence of trees. It is the only area of the Catskills that feels as if it were above tree line.

Huckleberry Point

The trail that splits from the snowmobile route a mile from the Platte Clove trailhead curves back another mile or so to Huckleberry Point, a steep and ledgy area which, due to past fires, offers many places to sit back and look down into the clove. Since the route is mostly level, and the roundtrip considerably shorter than that required for the whole mountain, it is popular with those who hike only occasionally. Care must be taken at the Point, however, since some of the ledges also sit above sharp drops.

Round Top

Due to the easier routes available at the time, Cole and his contemporaries would prefer to climb this peak and sketch the views. Some of the views they came back with found their way into paintings, most notably Sunny Morning on the Hudson River''. Since then, Round Top has fallen out of favor even more than High Peak but is still among the fifty highest peaks in the Catskills, and thus visited by some even more determined peak baggers. Its summit can be reached by use paths similar to those on its neighbor (although unmaintained), from the snowmobile trail near Cortina Valley.

Brant Fort

An old fort can be found south of the col between High Peak and Round Top at  in elevation. Built at first by British troops during the French and Indian War, it was most famously used by Tories and their Indian allies later during the Revolutionary War (in the early years of which pro-British sentiment was quite common in the region, as many of its tenant farmers despised their pro-independence landlords). From that vantage point they could see down into Platte Clove and keep an eye on troop movements in the valley (likewise strongly pro-Patriot).

It was often the first stop for many taken prisoner during engagements in the region who were later transported to what is now Canada to be exchanged, paroled or ransomed, as reported in many captivity narratives. Joseph Brant, the legendary Indian warrior who fought for the British, stopped by for a visit once, giving rise in later years to legends that he based his fearsome raids here. The fort has been informally named for him ever since even though his real involvement with it was minimal.

Plane crash sites