[Source: Gutenberg#2814 | Part 34]
# Utopia — Thomas More

nd said _Pardon!_ his fury nearly choked him.

His tram let him down at Shelbourne Road and he steered his great body
along in the shadow of the wall of the barracks. He loathed returning
to his home. When he went in by the side-door he found the kitchen
empty and the kitchen fire nearly out. He bawled upstairs:

“Ada! Ada!”

His wife was a little sharp-faced woman who bullied her husband when he
was sober and was bullied by him when he was drunk. They had five
children. A little boy came running down the stairs.

“Who is that?” said the man, peering through the darkness.

“Me, pa.”

“Who are you? Charlie?”

“No, pa. Tom.”

“Where’s your mother?”

“She’s out at the chapel.”

“That’s right.... Did she think of leaving any dinner for me?”

“Yes, pa. I——”

“Light the lamp. What do you mean by having the place in darkness? Are
the other children in bed?”

The man sat down heavily on one of the chairs while the little boy lit
the lamp. He began to mimic his son’s flat accent, saying half to
himself: _“At the chapel. At the chapel, if you please!”_ When the lamp
was lit he banged his fist on the table and shouted:

“What’s for my dinner?”

“I’m going ... to cook it, pa,” said the little boy.

The man jumped up furiously and pointed to the fire.

“On that fire! You let the fire out! By God, I’ll teach you to do that
again!”

He took a step to the door and seized the walking-stick which was
standing behind it.

“I’ll teach you to let the fire out!” he said, rolling up his sleeve in
order to give his arm free play.

The little boy cried _“O, pa!”_ and ran whimpering round the table, but
the man followed him and caught him by the coat. The little boy looked
about him wildly but, seeing no way of escape, fell upon his knees.

“Now, you’ll let the fire out the next time!” said the man striking at
him vigorously with the stick. “Take that, you little whelp!”

The boy uttered a squeal of pain as the stick cut his thigh. He clasped
his hands together in the air and his voice shook with fright.

“O, pa!” he cried. “Don’t beat me, pa! And I’ll ... I’ll say a _Hail
Mary_ for you.... I’ll say a _Hail Mary_ for you, pa, if you don’t beat
me.... I’ll say a _Hail Mary_....”




CLAY


The matron had given her leave to go out as soon as the women’s tea was
over and Maria looked forward to her evening out. The kitchen was spick
and span: the cook said you could see yourself in the big copper
boilers. The fire was nice and bright and on one of the side-tables
were four very big barmbracks. These barmbracks seemed uncut; but if
you went closer you would see that they had been cut into long thick
even slices and were ready to be handed round at tea. Maria had cut
them herself.

Maria was a very, very small person indeed but she had a very long nose
and a very long chin. She talked a little through her nose, always
soothingly: _“Yes, my dear,”_ and _“No, my dear.”_ She was always sent
for when the women quarrelled over their tubs and always succeeded in
making peace. One day the matron had said to her:

“Maria, you are a veritable peace-maker!”

And the sub-matron and two of the Board ladies had heard the
compliment. And Ginger Mooney was always saying what she wouldn’t do to
the dummy who had charge of the irons if it wasn’t for Maria. Everyone
was so fond of Maria.

The women would have their tea at six o’clock and she would be able to
get away before seven. From Ballsbridge to the Pillar, twenty minutes;
from the Pillar to Drumcondra, twenty minutes; and twenty minutes to
buy the things. She would be there before eight. She took out her purse
with the silver clasps and read again the words _A Present from
Belfast_. She was very fond of that purse because Joe had brought it to
her five years before when he and Alphy had gone to Belfast on a
Whit-Monday trip. In the purse were two half-crowns and some coppers.
She would have five shillings clear after paying tram fare. What a nice
evening they would have, all the children singing! Only she hoped that
Joe wouldn’t come in drunk. He was so different when he took any drink.

Often he had wanted her to go and live with them; but she would have
felt herself in the way (though Joe’s wife was ever so nice with her)
and she had become accustomed to the life of the laundry. Joe was a
good fellow. She had nursed him and Alphy too; and Joe used often say:

“Mamma is mamma but Maria is my proper mother.”

After the break-up at home the boys had got her that position in the
_Dublin by Lamplight_ laundry, and she liked it. She used to have such
a bad opinion of Protestants but now she thought they were very nice
people, a little quiet and serious, but still very nice people to live
with. Then she had her plants in the conservatory and she liked looking
after them. She had lovely ferns and wax-plants and, whenever anyone
came to visit her, she always gave the visitor one or two sli