[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

nd first and last used by president Enrique Peña Nieto in 2016. President Obrador has since sold most of these aircraft or stored them; in particular, the Boeing 787 was sold to the Government of Tajikistan in 2022.

Nicaragua
The government uses turbo-prop or commercial aircraft for travel.

Panama

The government of Panama operated two aircraft for transportation of the President of Panama: one Embraer ERJ 145 (reg.no: HP-1A) for overseas flights, which replaced a Gulfstream II, and one Sikorsky S-76 (reg.no: HP-A1A) for domestic flights. The National Aeronaval Service is responsible for the maintenance and operation of the aircraft although it does not belong to them. For long-haul trips, the government uses commercial aircraft. As of 2022, Panama is the only Central American country with a permanent presidential jet aircraft. Any plane carrying the president usually flies under PANAMA1/2 as a callsign.

Saint Kitts and Nevis
The government uses turbo-prop or commercial aircraft.

Saint Lucia
The government uses turbo-prop or commercial aircraft.

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
The government uses turbo-prop and commercial aircraft.

Trinidad and Tobago
The government uses private or commercial aircraft for travel.

United States

Air travel arrangements for the President are made by the White House Military Office, and may use one of three different types of aircraft depending on the flight and available runways. The first type is two customized Boeing 747-200B jetliners with military designation VC-25A. With a livery first designed by Raymond Loewy in 1962, they are among the most recognizable aircraft in the world and are a global symbol of the country as well as the President of the United States. They are also considered to have inspired other nations to acquire dedicated aircraft for state travel. These aircraft are primarily used by the President and are scheduled to be replaced by Boeing 747-8i aircraft, military designation VC-25B, in the near future. The VC-25 is used for airfields with runway lengths of  or longer because the four-engine jets require longer runways for take-offs and landings. For long-distance domestic travel and all international travel, the United States Armed Forces requires that the presidential aircraft have at least four engines.

The Vice President of the United States, the First Lady and Second Ladies/Gentlemen, the Secretary of State and other high-ranking officials may use customized Boeing 757-200, Boeing 737 or Gulfstream G550 aircraft with military designations C-32A, C-40B and C-37A/B, respectively. The President-elect and Vice President-elect of the United States may also use these aircraft, upon courtesy extended by the departing Administration. Each of these aircraft bear liveries based on the Loewy design. The exact aircraft used will depend on the length and destination of the flight, as these aircraft may take off and land using runways of  in length. However, the President only uses either VC-25A or C-32 aircraft – though, exceptionally, President Barack Obama once used a C-37A for private travel to New York City in 2009 – while the Vice President almost always uses C-32 aircraft. For long-distance domestic travel and international trips, the Secretary of Defense uses one of four modified Boeing 747-200B aircraft with the military designation of E-4B. These aircraft are specially fitted to serve as National Emergency Airborne Command Posts during wartime.

The callsign of any aircraft is regular if it is not currently carrying the President or vice-president. The callsign of any military aircraft that currently carries the President is called that military branch name followed by "One", such as Army One, Air Force One, Navy One, or Marine One (which is typically associated with a helicopter). The callsign of any military aircraft that currently carries the Vice President is called that military branch name followed by "Two", such as Air Force Two, Coast Guard Two, or Marine Two (which is typically associated with a helicopter). In the one instance that the President traveled on a private aircraft its callsign was Executive One, and Vice President Rockefeller's private Gulfstream was Executive Two when he was on board during his term of office.

In addition, the US military maintains separate fleets of Boeing C-40 Clippers (Boeing 737-700), C-37As (Gulfstream V) and C-37Bs (Gulfstream G550) for use by government officials, Members of Congress and the White House. These may have different liveries than the Loewy design.

Oceania

Australia 

The Royal Australian Air Force operates a number of specialised aircraft to carry the King of Australia, members of the Royal Family, the Governor-General of Australia, the Prime Minister of Australia, senior members of the Australian government, and foreign, mostly Pacific Island, dignitaries.