[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Berlin border crossings

, Friedrichstraße, Heinrich-Heine-Straße, Oberbaumbrücke, Puschkinallee, Elsenstraße, Sonnenallee, Rudower Straße. The Kopenhagener Straße, Wollankstraße, Brunnenstraße, Puschkinallee, Elsenstraße and Rudower Straße were closed on 23 August 1961, and in return, Invalidenstraße checkpoint was opened.

West Berlin – East Berlin
There were several border crossings between East and West Berlin:
Bornholmer Straße border crossing, on Bornholmer Straße over the Bösebrücke between Berlin-Prenzlauer Berg and Berlin-Wedding (opened 1961).
 For West Berliners, citizens of the Federal Republic, GDR citizens, and diplomats (by road)
 Brandenburg Gate between Berlin-Tiergarten and Berlin-Mitte, opened on 13 August 1961. On 14 August West Berliners gathered on the western side of the gate to demonstrate against the Berlin Wall. Under the pretext that Western demonstrations required it, the East closed the checkpoint the same day, 'until further notice', a situation that was to last until 22 December 1989. 
 Chausseestraße/Reinickendorfer Straße between Berlin-Wedding and Berlin-Mitte
 For West Berliners and GDR citizens (by road)
Invalidenstraße/Sandkrugbrücke between Tiergarten and Berlin-Mitte
 For West Berliners and GDR citizens (by road)
Checkpoint Charlie/Friedrichstraße between Berlin-Mitte and Berlin-Kreuzberg (opened 1961)
For foreigners, diplomats, Allied military personnel and GDR citizens (by road)
Heinrich-Heine-Straße/Prinzenstraße between Berlin-Mitte and Berlin-Kreuzberg
 For citizens of the Federal Republic, GDR citizens and diplomats (by road)
 This was sometimes referred to as Checkpoint Delta
Oberbaumbrücke between Friedrichshain and Berlin-Kreuzberg (opened 1963)
 For West Berliners and GDR citizens (pedestrians)
Sonnenallee between Neukölln and Treptow
 For West Berliners and GDR citizens (by road)

In addition, entirely located in East Berlin (reached by streetcar, underground, or railroad): 
Friedrichstraße station (opened 1961)
 For West Berliners, citizens of the Federal Republic, foreigners, diplomats, transit travelers and GDR citizens (rail/pedestrian)

West Berlin – GDR
Glienicke Bridge over the Havel from Berlin-Wannsee to Potsdam
Open to general traffic until 1952.
From 1952 on, open only for access by the western Allied Military Liaison Missions. Civilians with special permission were later allowed to cross the bridge on foot. 
 From 3 July 1953, the bridge was closed as one of the last routes connecting Berlin with the surrounding area for civilian traffic.
It became well known in particular because three exchanges of captured agents took place there between the American and Soviet superpowers.
 Lichtenrade/Mahlow (Federal Road 96), only for garbage trucks of the Berlin sanitation department and automobiles on service trips from West Berlin to the dump in Schöneiche.
 Waltersdorf Chaussee/Rudow Chaussee, besides its function for transit to and from the Berlin-Schönefeld airport, was also opened for passage of West Berliners into the GDR.  The crossing was little known, as only its transit function was mentioned in guidebooks.
 In Kohlhasenbrück, for access to the Steinstücken exclave, and only for the use of its residents.  This crossing was abolished after the 1971 territorial exchange, when East Germany ceded the interjacent tract of land to West Berlin.
 Bürgerablage Beach, for access to the exclaves Erlengrund and Fichtewiese, two allotment clubs, only for use by allotmenteers there.  The crossing was abolished after the 1988 territorial exchange, when East Germany ceded two tracts of interjacent land to West Berlin.

Crossings for transit traffic