[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kitchenuhmaykoosib Inninuwug First Nation

Kitchenuhmaykoosib Inninuwug (Oji-Cree: ᑭᐦᒋᓇᒣᑯᐦᓯᑊ ᐃᓂᓂᐧᐊᐠ (Gichi-namegosib ininiwag); unpointed: ᑭᒋᓇᒣᑯᓯᑊ ᐃᓂᓂᐧᐊᐠ or ᑭᐦᒋᓇᒣᑯᐦᓯᐱᐎᓂᓂᐗᐠ (Gichi-namegosibiwininiwag); unpointed: ᑭᒋᓇᒣᑯᓯᐱᐎᓂᓂᐗᐠ), also known as Big Trout Lake First Nation or KI for short, is an Oji-Cree First Nation reserve in Northwestern Ontario and is a part of Treaty 9 (James Bay). The community is about 580 km (360 mi) north of Thunder Bay, Ontario.

The First Nation's land-base is a 29,937.6 ha (73,976.38 acre) Kitchenuhmaykoosib Aaki 84 Reserve, located on the north shore of Big Trout Lake.  Big Trout Lake is a fly-in community, accessible by air, and winter road in the colder months.

Background 
The population of Big Trout Lake was 1,322 residents in January 2007, making it one of the largest First Nations communities in the region.

The current band chief is Donny Morris and deputy chief is Darryl Sainnawap. Current band councillors are Cecelia Begg, Joseph Mckay, Enos Mckay, Randy Nanokeesic, Bonnie Sanderson and Jack Mckay.

The people speak Oji-Cree (Anishininiimowin, Severn Ojibwe or Northern Ojibway) and English

When Treaty 9 was first signed in Osnaburgh, Ontario in 1905, KI was located in land that was, at the time, not considered part of Ontario but rather within the then North-Western Territory.  When band members learned of the signing they sent repeated letters for treaty terms.  Kitchenuhmaykoosib Inninuwug (KI) is within the boundaries of the territory described by the 1929-30 Adhesion to the James Bay Treaty of 1905 - Treaty 9.  Full reserve status was granted to Big Trout Lake in 1976.

Marion Anderson, who became a band councillor for Big Trout Lake in 1950, was the first woman ever to serve as a First Nations band councillor in Ontario. She was later awarded the Order of Ontario in honour of this distinction.

The band's website describes three locally owned stores serving the community supplying groceries, clothing, fuel, and various other supplies.  The community relies heavily on these businesses as The North West Company, a store frequently found with northern operations, was asked to leave by the community in 1996.  The community felt that they would be better off keeping the business locally owned and operated.  A post office and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Agency Bank are also located in the community.  There is one band-run community radio station, 100.3 FM, which broadcasts everything from public health announcements, Sunday mass, and rebroadcasts the Wawatay Native Communications Society from Sioux Lookout, Ontario.

The First Nation is policed by Big Trout Lake Police which is a force administered by the Ontario Provincial Police (OPP).  There are only 19 First Nations in Ontario who operate with this agreement and only four in North-Western Ontario.  The remainder are policed directly by the OPP or by the Nishnawbe-Aski Police Service.

There are water pumping stations providing underground running water to homes on the island while those living on the mainland are serviced by water tanker trucks.  There is also underground sewage piping with two lagoons at the west end of the island.  The school, teacherages, and Post Island houses are the only structures supplied by underground sewage, the remainder of the community is serviced by a sewage truck.

The community is a fly-in reservation with regularly scheduled flights by Wasaya Airways.  The Big Trout Lake Airport has a gravel airstrip that is  in length.  During the winter months, the community is accessible by winter road to Pickle Lake which is serviced by Ontario Highway 599, the northernmost highway in the province.

Healthcare was traditionally provided by the Hudson's Bay Company post master who would dispense medication etc.  The first nursing station was constructed in 1938, funded entirely by Reverend Leslie Garrett.  The two-storey building was 36 x 12; it included the electric light powered by a wind-turbine and battery storage.  Indian Affairs built a new nursing station in 1950 which was staffed by two nurses.  The current nursing station was constructed in 1973.  Like other reserves, the healthcare is delivered by the federal Health Canada (unlike the rest of the province).  It's a six-nurse station with a physician on site Monday to Friday.  The station also has visiting specialists including optometrists and dentists.  The nursing station also plays host to two first year medical students every May from the Northern Ontario School of Medicine which is a key component of their first year curriculum.

History