[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jim Talent

Health care
Talent supported the Medicare prescription drug benefit called Medicare Part D, the purpose of which is to reduce the amount seniors pay for their prescription drugs. Talent called for waiving a one percent penalty for senior citizens who missed the deadline to sign up for the program.

Talent voted against an amendment allowing Medicare to negotiate a bulk purchase discount for prescription drugs.

Talent supported limiting awards in medical liability lawsuits. He believes that "medical liability relief will cut costs because physicians won't have to practice 'defensive medicine.'"

Talent supported and proposed legislation to allow trade organizations to sponsor health insurance plans, which he believes would provide uninsured workers the opportunity for more affordable health care.

Predatory lending
Talent sponsored legislation to cap the annual percentage interest rate for payday loans to military service personnel from an average of around 39% to 36%.

Stem cell research
After joining the Senate in 2002, Talent supported federal legislation that would ban embryonic stem cell research or federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. This included cosponsoring a bill (S.658) sponsored by Senator Sam Brownback, which would ban all forms of human cloning including embryonic therapeutic cloning techniques that are seen as crucial to stem cell research.

On February 10, 2006, Talent withdrew his support for the bill, citing the need to balance research and protection against human cloning. This move followed criticism by Talent's opponent in the 2006 election, Claire McCaskill, as well as pressure from Missouri business interests that oppose restrictions on stem cell research. Though this reversal was criticized as being politically motivated, Talent told the Associated Press, "The technology is changing all the time and so I'm always considering whether there is a better way to strike the balance." Talent suggested that moral concerns might be put to rest through a possible future scientific breakthrough – replicating embryonic stem cells without the use of cloned embryos.

There was a ballot-initiative in Missouri in November 2006 to amend the state constitution and allow, in line with federal law, stem cell research and treatment. On May 1, 2006, Talent announced his opposition to the proposed ballot-initiative. Stem cell research and treatment is working up to be a divisive issue for many Republicans and is taking a particular prominence in Missouri.

In July 2006, he voted against expanding federal funds for embryonic stem cell research in cases where the embryos were donated by fertility clinics or were created for purposes of fertility treatment. This bill passed the Senate 63–37, but was vetoed by President Bush, in a move that was said to have significant political implications for Talent.

Minimum wage
Talent did take a position on the ballot-initiative in Missouri, called Proposition B, that would raise the minimum wage in the state to $6.50 per hour, or to the level of the federal minimum wage if that is higher, with subsequent adjustments for inflation. He said he believed it was a state issue, but stated he supports minimum wage increases if they are coupled with tax breaks for small businesses. Talent believed that increasing the minimum wage could reduce the number of jobs by raising the cost of doing business.

Abortion
Talent supported a ban on abortions, with exceptions for rape, incest, and the life of the mother.

Bioterrorism
Talent has been outspoken about what he sees as the nation's vulnerability to a growing bioterrorism threat. He is Vice Chair of the bipartisan Commission on the Prevention of WMD proliferation and terrorism, which has concluded that, unless action is taken, a biological attack within the United States is increasingly likely and will become a probability by 2013. Together with former Senator Bob Graham, Chairman of the Commission, he has criticized the federal government's readiness to deal with major public health crisis'. On January 4, 2010, the two senators published an op-ed in the Washington Post, arguing that an unsatisfactory response to the 2009 flu pandemic shows the need for better medical emergency plans.