[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mary Bowser

students, all taught by herself.

In a June 1867 letter to the superintendent of education for the Georgia Freedmen's Bureau, she requested that he refer to her as Mary J. R. Garvin. A later letter may imply that she intended to join her new husband in the West Indies after St. Mary's school closed.

Untrue or unsubstantiated claims 
In addition to the misuse of the name "Bowser," a number of claims made in purportedly nonfiction accounts about this figure are unsubstantiated, or even untrue. Many are embellishments of a June 1911 Harper's Monthly article, the first known publication of the erroneous Bowser's name. A number of modern media sources, including NOW with Bill Moyers, NPR and The Washington Post, have republished these false or disputed claims.
 No evidence exists that Van Lew or Richards identified as Quaker, or that either one attended a Quaker school, as is sometimes claimed. It is not known where Richards attended school.
 It is not known whether Richards infiltrated the Confederate White House as a permanent servant, although she did on at least one occasion enter the house to look for documents.
 A "colored girl Mary" who participated in the espionage ring is claimed to have a photographic memory in a document called, "Recollections of Thomas McNiven and his activities in Richmond during the American Civil War." The document's accuracy is doubted by historians including Elizabeth R. Varon, author of Southern Lady, Yankee Spy, a biography of Van Lew.
 Although she used numerous pseudonyms, the name "Ellen Bond" was not one of them.
 Richards did not likely attempt to set fire to the Confederate White House and flee Richmond in early 1865, as she was still in Richmond in April 1865 educating newly freed slaves.
 She was not smuggled out of the city to Philadelphia in a cartload of manure during the war.
 A member of the Bowser family told an NPR reporter that in the 1950s she had inadvertently discarded a book that might have contained Mary's wartime journal. But the existence of such a journal cannot be confirmed. It is unlikely that a spy would keep such a dangerous document.
 A photograph of another woman by the name of Mary Bowser has been incorrectly associated with the spy Mary Richards.

Popular culture representations
A novel by Lois Leveen, The Secrets of Mary Bowser, is based on Richards' life.

The 2013 play Lady Patriot, by Ted Lange, is about Bowser and her acts of espionage. The play was produced by Mary Lange and premiered at the Hudson Backstage Theatre in Santa Monica, California. Mary Bowser was played by Chrystee Pharris.

A 1987 made-for-TV movie, A Special Friendship, was loosely based on Bowser and Van Lew's activities. Bowser was played by Akosua Busia.

The heroine of the 2017 novel An Extraordinary Union by Alyssa Cole is based in part on Mary Bowser.

The Civil War podcast Uncivil had a 2018 episode about Mary Bowser. This episode has been criticized for presenting much of the disputed information about Richards – including the name "Mary Bowser" – as fact.

The opera Intelligence by composer Jake Heggie and librettist Gene Scheer, is based on Mary Bowser's life.  Commissioned by Houston Grand Opera, the new opera will premiere at the Wortham Theater on September 20, 2023 with a production directed by Jawole Willa Jo Zollar.

Recognition 
"Mary Elizabeth Bowser" [sic] has been honored by the U.S. government with an induction into the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame in Fort Huachuca, Arizona, for her work in the war.

See also 
 Harriet Tubman

References

African Americans in the American Civil War
Women in the American Civil War
American spies
Female wartime spies
Year of death unknown
1830s births
19th-century African-American women
People from Richmond, Virginia
African-American history in Richmond, Virginia
19th-century African-American people