[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Boves massacre

The Boves massacre () was a World War II war crime that took place on 19 September 1943 in the comune of Boves, Italy. The event took place following the Italian surrender on 8 September 1943. Twenty-three Italian civilians were killed and several hundred houses were destroyed by artillery fire of the Waffen-SS under the command of Joachim Peiper. The massacre and destruction were reprisals for one German soldier having been killed and two German NCOs having been captured and held by Italian partisans in the vicinity of the town. After obtaining their release, Peiper ordered the destruction of the town, despite earlier promising not to do so.

The Boves massacre is sometimes referred to as the first German World War II massacre on civilians in Italy, but this is incorrect as German massacres were already carried out from July 1943, during the Allied invasion of Sicily.

Prelude
Following the Italian surrender on 8 September 1943 the region around Boves, near the French border, saw  Italian soldiers pass through on their return to Italy. German authorities were worried that these soldiers might join local partisans and encouraged them to either report to local authorities or disband. The 1st SS Panzer Division Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler was stationed in the area to take control of the border region, and, while neither instructed nor authorised to carry out arrests and executions of Jews, participated in both on its own accord immediately after the Italian surrender. The division at the time also looted Jewish property and had to be explicitly stopped by SS corps commander Paul Hausser on the grounds that only the security police and the SD were authorised to carry out those measures. The Leibstandarte engaged in hunting down Jews, Peiper's own unit was pursuing approximately 1,000 Jews who had fled from the former Italian occupation zone in France, while further north another unit of the division killed 54 Jewish civilians at Lago Maggiore and submerged their bodies in the lake.

Massacre
Versions of the subsequent events at Boves and the massacre vary between Italian and German testimonies and even between official German records and statements made by soldiers of the Leibstandarte. The differentiation between partisans, returning Italian soldiers and those that joined the partisans at this point was somewhat blurred.

Eleven days after the surrender, on 19 September 1943, two German NCOs were captured by a combined force of partisans and Italian Army soldiers under the command of former GAF officer Ignazio Vian. An attempt to free the German prisoners by a company of the Leibstandarte failed, resulting in one dead on each side and a number of German soldiers wounded. Subsequent to this, Peiper and his unit were called in to free the German soldiers and took up positions in Boves, controlled access to the town and threatened to destroy the town and its inhabitants should their demands not be met. Peiper committed to sparing the town if the German soldiers were freed.

The parish priest of Boves, Giuseppe Bernardi, and local industrialist Alessandro Vassallo, who had acted as negotiators between Peiper and the Italian soldiers and partisans, successfully secured the release of the prisoners and the return of the body of the killed German soldier, but Bernardi and Vassallo were later doused with petrol and burned alive.