[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Richard Shusterman

elements, as Shusterman himself admits, can be traced to many respected traditions: ancient Greek philosophy and the later Western philosophies (Michel de Montaigne, John Dewey, Michel Foucault), but also East-Asian wisdom such as Confucianism.
Somaesthetics divides into three fundamental branches:

analytical somaesthetics which is a "descriptive and theoretical enterprise devoted to explaining the nature of our bodily perceptions and practices and their function in our knowledge and construction of the world. Besides the traditional topics in philosophy of mind, ontology, and epistemology that relate to the mind-body issue and the role of somatic factors in consciousness and action, analytic somaesthetics also includes the sort of genealogical, sociological, and cultural analyses advanced by Beauvoir, Foucault [and] Pierre Bourdieu";
pragmatic somaesthetics which (in "contrast to analytic somaesthetics, whose logic is essentially descriptive") "has a distinctly normative, often prescriptive, character because it involves proposing specific methods of somatic improvement or engaging in their comparison, explanation, and critique";
practical somaesthetics which "involves actually engaging in programs of disciplined, reflective, corporeal practice aimed at somatic self-improvement".

Shusterman himself works in all three somaesthetic subdisciplines:

within the analytic field he theorizes the body's status as the basic medium of human existence and the fundamental role it plays in the realm of cognition, ethics, politics and aesthetics;
in pragmatic somaesthetics
he analyzes different somatic disciplines (e.g., Feldenkrais method, Alexander Technique, Bioenergetics);
criticizes different thinkers, such as Edmund Burke, William James, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Simone de Beauvoir and Michel Foucault, for either neglecting or misconceiving the value of various forms of somatic care;
scrutinizes the issue of Asian erotic arts;
discusses the value of somaesthetics for education in the humanities;
As a certified practitioner of the Feldenkrais Method and a somatic therapist, he gives workshops on somaesthetics that include practical exercises and demonstrations, and he also has experience in treating different cases of somatic disabilities.

Somaesthetics, which by now forms the center of Shusterman's philosophical inquiries, has already influenced many scholars working in fields as diverse as philosophy, art education, dance theory, health and fitness studies.

Somaesthetics and the Arts

Somaesthetics has proved itself useful for several art forms. In a modern, Aristotelian understanding of music, there is an aesthetic separation between the cognitive abilities of the artist (poiesis) and the reception of the audience. The latter’s experience is of the action (praxis) of the art work. Taking cues from poets like Valéry and T. S. Eliot, who affirm a two-stage temporal process to aesthetic experience, Shusterman has used the idea of the “perceptive attending” of the soma to integrate this process.

Shusterman has argued that somaesthetics can aid architecture’s critical function. The body (soma), as it’s understood in somaesthetics, shares several features with architecture and as such, somatic reflection can be an insightful resource.

In photography, somatic skill plays a role in setting up a shot and posing. The camera itself is relevant because in the simplicity and instantaneousness of capturing a posing subject with a button press, the individual posing is locked in a tense relationship with the camera, as it “thematizes this self-presentation, making it explicit by focusing on framing a particular moment of such self-presentation and fixing it in a permanent image that objectifies and defines the self in terms of that experiential moment, an image that can be indefinitely reproduced and circulated as a representation of what the self really is.”

With dance, Shusterman identifies an educational aspect, saying “It is an education in disciplined, skilled movement, expressive gesture, and elegant bearing whose experience in performance can afford the dancer the joys and healing harmony of somaesthetic pleasure and whose mastery also has beneficial uses in real life off stage.” Shusterman has also drawn on non-western art like Nō theatre and the theories of Zeami Motokiyo. Zeanmi’s theories of dance encourages wide and deep somatic awareness through deliberate training.