[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Philip Giraldi

Philip Giraldi (born c. 1946) is an American columnist, commentator and security consultant. He is the Executive Director of the Council for the National Interest, a role he has held since 2010. He was previously employed as an intelligence officer for the CIA, before transitioning to private consulting. Giraldi has received criticism for his anti-semitism and Holocaust denial, and has said "those American Jews who lack any shred of integrity" (Zionists) when they appear on television should be labeled "like a warning label on a bottle of rat poison."

Education
Giraldi holds a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Chicago, and a MA and a Ph.D. in European history from the University of London. A native English speaker, he also speaks German, Italian, Spanish, and Turkish.

Career
Girardi's 18-year period employed by the Central Intelligence Agency focused on counter-terrorism efforts. He served in numerous European and Middle Eastern theaters, including an appointment as the deputy base chief for the field office in Istanbul in the late 1980s. From 1989–1992, he was designated as the agency's senior officer for Olympic Games support, assuming the title of Chief of Base for the Barcelona summer Olympics. After leaving the CIA, Giraldi started a security consulting firm; and became a columnist, speaker, and commentator for numerous organizations and media-outlets.

He was a foreign policy adviser to Ron Paul during the 2008 presidential primaries.

Since 2010, Giraldi has served as the executive director of the Council for the National Interest, a non-profit political group that advocates for an end to U.S. aid to Israel and has the stated aim of providing independent analysis of U.S./Middle-Eastern policy, described by the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) in 2013 as one of their “Top Ten Anti-Israel Groups in the U.S.”. He is also the national security editor for The Unz Review, a webzine described by the ADL as "a forum for writers who demonize Israel" and by the Washington Post as "a website that says it provides a forum for 'alternative perspectives,' which happens to include anti-Semitic diatribes". The foundation of Ron Unz has made grants to Giraldi.

Giraldi has written columns on terrorism, intelligence, and security issues for the American Herald Tribune, The American Conservative, The Huffington Post, and Antiwar.com; as well as op-ed pieces for the Hearst Newspaper chain.

Political commentary

The American Conservative
In August 2005, Giraldi wrote an article for The American Conservative that outlined his supposed knowledge of a contingency plan under development by the George W. Bush administration involving a potential nuclear attack on Iran. In another article that same year, Giraldi suggested that the outing of CIA officer Valarie Plame was part of a larger U.S. conspiracy to cover-up the forgery of documents used to implicate Iraq in the attempted acquisition of nuclear material. The documents were a crucial component of the Bush administration's case to go to war with Iraq.

In 2013, Giraldi wrote an article for the website outlining a theory that the Syrian gas attacks in Damascus were staged by Middle Eastern actors outside of Syria in an attempt to frame the Assad regime in order to incite increased opposition to the Syrian war efforts.

Other outlets
In 2014, the Anti-Defamation League published a blog that identified Giraldi, among others, as a speaker at a National Press Club event that aired on C-SPAN, dubbed as the "National Summit to Reassess the U.S.-Israel Special Relationship," and purported to be sponsored by groups the ADL identified as being anti-Israel. At the event, it was reported that Giraldi spoke about allegations that Israeli spies celebrated while the Twin Towers fell on September 11.

Assertions about Jews and Israel 
Noah Pollak wrote in Commentary magazine in August 2008: "In Giraldi’s world, scratching the surface of almost any event exposes the sinister machinations of international Jewry". He was accused in 2019 by Max Boot in The Washington Post of using the term "neocon" as a cover word for Jews.

In 2004, in a privately circulated newsletter co-written with Vincent Cannistraro, a retired CIA counter-terrorism chief, Giraldi said Turkish sources had reported that Turkey was concerned by Israel's alleged encouragement of Kurdish ambitions to create an independent state and that Israeli intelligence operations in the area included anti-Syrian and anti-Iranian activity by Kurds. They predicted this might lead to a new alliance among Iran, Syria, and Turkey which have Kurdish minorities. Giraldi speculated in 2008: "There are a number of possible "false flag" scenarios in which the Israelis could insert a commando team in the Persian Gulf or use some of their people inside Iraq to stage an incident that they will make to look Iranian, either by employing Iranian weapons or by leaving a communications footprint that points to Tehran's involvement."