[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Charlie Siringo

story of "Billy the Kid".  By 1922, Siringo's financial difficulties required relinquishing his Santa Fe ranch, and moving to Los Angeles.  In 1924, Siringo played the part of an old cowboy in the movie Nine Scars Make a Man. In 1925, Siringo served as a consultant for William S. Hart's Tumbleweeds.

In 1927, he released another book, Riata and Spurs, a composite of Lone Star Cowboy and A Cowboy Detective. The Pinkerton Agency again halted publication, resulting in a bowdlerized copy, with many fictional accounts rather than the true accounts that Siringo had envisioned.

Death
Siringo died in Altadena, California, on October 18, 1928. He was buried at Inglewood Park Cemetery, Inglewood, California.

In popular culture
  In Loren Estleman's Ragtime Cowboys, Charles Siringo is a lead character partnered with Dashiell Hammett to engage in an investigation.
 In Sergio Sollima's 1967 Spaghetti Western film Face to Face, a character patterned after Siringo (but with his first name being spelled "Charley") is portrayed by William Berger. Siringo's appearance in the film is an anachronism, as Face to Face takes place in the American Civil War, when the real Siringo was only a child.
 Charles Siringo also appears as a character in Leif Enger's So Brave, Young, and Handsome (2008; ).
 Siringo Road, a major thoroughfare on the south side of the city of Santa Fe, New Mexico, is named for the former detective and writer.
 In Larry McMurtry's novel Streets of Laredo, Call reads Siringo's first book and tells Charles Goodnight that it is mostly yarns.
 Mike Blakely's original composition and song titled "Charlie Siringo" was about the life of Charlie Siringo.
 Charles Siringo is referenced admiringly in Arthur Penn's quirky 1976 Western The Missouri Breaks.
 Charles Siringo appeared in the comic book "Wynonna Earp".

Bibliography

Works by

Works about

 Barclay, Donald A. "Charles A. Siringo". Nineteenth-Century American Western Writers. Ed. Robert L. Gale. Dictionary of Literary Biography Vol. 186. Detroit: Gale, 1997. .
 
  
 
 

Ward, Nathan. Son of the Old West. NY: Grove Atlantic,2023. Coming on 5 September 2023. ISBN 978-0-8021-6208-3

See also

References

 "Siringo, Charles Angelo". The Handbook of Texas Online. Retrieved 2015-01-16.

External links

 
 
 
 

1855 births
1928 deaths
American people of Irish descent
American people of Italian descent
American police officers
Burials at Inglewood Park Cemetery
Cowboys
Labor detectives
Law enforcement workers from California
Lawmen of the American Old West
People from Matagorda County, Texas
Pinkerton (detective agency)
Private investigators
Anti-crime activists
Bounty hunters