[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Genocyber

over and over again. The mysterious object was frozen by Genocyber itself and perhaps destroyed. He was likely the one to have sent the cyborgs in the first OVA to retrieve the sisters and Kenneth Reed when he feels that the professor was acting more on his own than to the standards of his company.

Dr. Nguyen Morgan: Elaine and Diana's true father. He was the first to come up with an idea to create a Vajranoid, using the power of Vajra or 'mind shadows' whose power was limitless, and tries to achieve this by testing his wife Tanya by creating a mandala to carry out his work. He was assisted by Kenneth Reed, who later wanted the credit of producing such a weapon, and eventually betrays Morgan to the Kuryu group for more funding, of which Morgan was then killed. The time and place of the birth of Elaine and Diana are unknown, but they were born after an explosion took place at a research center, with a surviving Tanya. Nguyen Morgan appears only in the flashbacks of the first and second OVAs.

Sakomizu: A scientist who wishes to surpass Morgan's research and does this by also creating a vajranoid weapon. (This Vajuranoid seems to be disobedient, like Elaine, and does things by its own free will) He succeeds in creating a powerful Vajra, but it proves to be no match for Genocyber in combat. He eventually creates a second Vajra that was made from Genocyber's severed arm when it was fighting his first Vajra. Sakomizu becomes insane, as the Vajra absorbs the entire crew of the carrier Alexandria and eventually the whole ship. Sakomizu is also by this time controlled by the Vajra, only to be first attacked by Myra, and then killed by Elaine. He, like all scientists who attempted to create an ideal Vajra, died in the end.

Davey: A detective working for the Hong Kong Police Department who tried to uncover the sinister plans of the Kuryu group, but as he came close to finding out what's going on, Kenneth Reed and many of his masked staff find him, tied him to a bed and was disembowelled, exposing his internal organs.

Ketsu, Wakayama & Amachi: These three cyborg agents are sent to retrieve Elaine and Diana for the Kuryu group. Ketsu is killed by ripping open his own brain on a subway line when Elaine makes him think that there are bugs inside him. Both Wakayama and Amachi both transform into hideous cyborg abominations later on and both are destroyed by Genocyber. Amachi is torn apart, while Wakayama is smashed through an airplane, the same one that Mira's daughter; Laura was in, though that isn't revealed until the second OVA.

Captain: Captain of the Alexandria. He is also eventually fused with the ship's vajuranoid, and dies in the end with the entire crew when Genocyber emits its great power.

Mayor: An evil politician who is a hypocrite, and kills anyone who opposes the law of his city; the Grand Arc. He dies near the end when Genocyber throws his parade car into a building.

Master: A priest of the underground sect of the Grand Arc, who is convinced that Mel was a messenger from God. He, as well as the whole sect, including a young boy he is seen talking to, are killed by a task force sent by the mayor to eliminate the cult.

Reception
Genocyber was criticized for its extremely graphic violence. Justin Sevakis from Anime News Network stated that the OVA "takes sadistic glee in being as graphic as possible" and "you have to be able to appreciate anger, the sort of nihilism and angst that fills and infects one's soul" 

David Cox from Otaku USA magazine recommended the OVA "see Genocyber, you won’t regret it" and highlighted "the impact of John Carpenters classic The Thing can be seen in Genocyber 1, as can slasher and gore spectacles of the sort celebrated in magazines like Film Threat and Fangoria" 

In a 2020 retrospective, Comic Book Resources included Genocyber in the top 10 of "the great 90s Sci-Fi anime that have been forgotten"

Notes

References

External links

1994 anime OVAs
Body horror anime and manga
Central Park Media
Cyberpunk anime and manga
Discotek Media
Films with screenplays by Shō Aikawa
Unfinished comics
Viz Media manga