[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Biodiesel Board

Clean Fuels Alliance America (CFAA), formerly known as the National Biodiesel Board, is an American commercial trade association representing the biodiesel industry as the unifying and coordinating body for research and development in the United States. Its mission is to advance the interests of members by creating sustainable biodiesel industry growth. CFAA works to remove barriers to the industry and educate the public about biodiesel. It offers regulatory, technical, communications, education, and petroleum outreach programs.

Biodiesel is a fuel composed of mono-alkyl esters of long-chain fatty acids derived from vegetable oils or animal fats, designated B100, and meeting the requirements of American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM International) D6751.

Membership
CFAA promotes the common business interests of those seeking to advance the use of biodiesel as a fuel or fuel additive that meets ASTM standards. Members are state, national, and international feedstock and feedstock processor organizations, biodiesel suppliers, fuel marketers and distributors, and technology providers.

Structure
The governing board is made up of 15 directors elected by voting members. Seven of the directors are elected by weighted votes. The remaining eight are elected by straight votes – two are feedstock producer organization voting delegates who are actively engaged in farming; two are voting delegates of producer or marketer members who are members of either the National Renderer’s Association or the Fats and Proteins Research Foundation (FPRF); and four are voting delegates of producer or marketer members and/or feedstock producer members who are not members of the National Renderer’s Association or FPRF.

History
CFAA was founded in 1992 by state soybean commodity groups. Originally known as the National Soy Diesel Development Board and later as the National Biodiesel Board, it was created by farmers who saw a real potential for biodiesel made from soybean oil. (Soybean oil is a byproduct of harvesting and processing soybeans for protein, for both human and animal consumption.) The commodity groups funded important biodiesel research and development programs focusing on soybean oil as the primary feedstock source for biodiesel. Feedstock is whatever the main ingredient of a biodiesel is. While the majority of today's biodiesel is still made from soybean oil, over the years, new feedstocks have emerged.

Today, feedstocks range from camelina, cottonseed, and canola oil to restaurant trap grease, recycled cooking oil and beef tallow. Additional research may someday develop algae and other high-oil sources into commercially viable options.  Consequently, CFAA has evolved into a feedstock-neutral industry association – a move voted for by the organization’s farmer members. Access to economical feedstock sources remains a focal point for the industry, and CFAA continues to be a strong advocate in Washington, D.C. for increased investment in feedstock research.

Advocacy
Although its headquarters are located in Jefferson City, Missouri, CFAA has a federal affairs office in Washington, D.C.  This advocacy arm of the organization engages in critical federal policy efforts on behalf of the industry, such as the biodiesel tax incentive and Renewable Fuels Standard, which requires modest amounts of biomass-based diesel to be blended into the nation’s diesel supply. CFAA’s regulatory team monitors and analyzes both the regulatory and legislative landscapes of the biodiesel industry – identifying barriers and opportunities to expand the use of biodiesel.

The state regulatory team tracks an average of 300 pieces of legislation nationwide. The team provides access to bills through a members-only website and updates members with regular communications summarizing current events, specific legislation, passed legislation, new incentives, and regulatory developments.

Key areas of support

Fuel quality
Ensuring consumers have a high level of confidence in the biodiesel they purchase is a top priority for CFAA and a key element in the industry's growth. Regulation of fuel standards is a function primarily left to the states, but regulation of biodiesel is not uniform across all states. CFAA works with states on fuel quality enforcement measures.  CFAA also catalogs information regarding their authority to regulate fuels; their status in adopting ASTM D6751 as the fuel specification for biodiesel; enforcement procedures; and assessment of capacity to analyze samples.