[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Counterterrorism Mission Center

Response Staff (GRS) was created after 9/11. Scorpions known for operating in Iraq, was a creation of the CIA’s. 

Gina Haspel, who would later become CIA Director, requested a transfer to CTC in 2001. Her first day was September 11, 2001. She continued at CTC for three years following the attacks.

Restructuring to CTMC (2015–present) 
In 2015, Director of CIA John Brennan introduced sweeping changes to the agency in a modernization effort. In addition to the creation of the first new directorate for the agency in nearly fifty years, many of the changes surrounded the creation of 10 new “mission centers” modeled on CTC, which combine analysts and operators in hybrid units focused on specific regions or security threats. Most track longstanding CIA assignments, with centers devoted to weapons proliferation, for example, and the Near East. These centers largely replicated the structure of CTC, which by 2015 had grown in size and mission from the war on terror. The changes narrowed CTC's scope, led to the reassignment of its director, Michael D'Andrea, to the newly formed Iran Mission Center, and gave CTC a new name, the Mission Center for Counterterrorism. The name was in line with the nine other announced mission centers, but was criticized by members of the agency even otherwise in support of the changes, for being clunky. With the move, the role of Director of the Counterterrorism Center was renamed Assistant Director for Counterterrorism Mission Center, and Chris Wood was the first to occupy the newly renamed office. Reviews of the implementation of the changes at CTMC and elsewhere with the new mission centers have been mixed, with parochialism reportedly continuing to belabor the reorganization.

In 2017, the Agency announced the creation of the Korea Mission Center, the 11th such group modeled on the structure of CTC, charged with tackling the threat posed by North Korea.

In March 2020, the Trump administration acting Director of National Intelligence Richard Grennell relieved CTMC Deputy Chief of Analysis, and 40 year intelligence veteran Russel Travers from his position as Acting Director of the National Counter-Terrorism Center (NCTC) during a surprise reshuffle. Reports initially suggested he was fired in order to be replaced with Christopher C. Miller, and while ODNI insisted Travers was afforded the opportunity to return to CIA, former coworkers insisted to the Washington Post that he was afforded only the opportunity to retire. Long seen as redundancy by some in departments of the constituent agencies of the Intelligence Community for having a similar and sometimes overlapping mission with what they see as the territory better left to their units like CTMC, the Trump administration's larger move to downsize NCTC was less surprising to most than the abrupt dismissal. Travers' deputy on loan from the National Security Agency was also relieved in the shakeup, and returned to a position at NSA.

In November 2020, president-elect Joe Biden reportedly considered Darrell M. Blocker, who served as former deputy director of the Mission Center, as a candidate for the role of CIA Director.

Director history

See also
 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi
 Counterterrorist Intelligence Center
 Private military company

References

Central Intelligence Agency
Central Intelligence Agency, Counterterrorist Center