[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Kristina Keneally

16 points on a two-party basis —the largest in a general election at any level in Australia since World War II.  In the process, Labor lost many seats in its former western Sydney heartland.  Ultimately, Labor was reduced to 20 seats (down from 48 at dissolution), its worst showing in over a century

Keneally resigned as Premier and state Labor leader on election night and announced she would return to the backbench. Accepting responsibility for the worst defeat of a sitting government in NSW's history, Keneally said, "The truth is the people of NSW, who entrusted us with government for 16 years, did not leave us. We left them." On 11 June 2011, Keneally was granted by the Governor retention of the title "The Honourable". On 23 June 2012, Keneally announced her resignation from the New South Wales Parliament.

Labor government and ICAC

After the defeat of the Labor government, a series of investigations at the Independent Commission Against Corruption, found that Keneally ministers Obeid, Tripodi, and McDonald had acted in a corrupt manner. Counsel assisting the inquiry, Geoffrey Watson , said in 2012 of investigations into the actions taken by the men in 2010 that these inquiries were the most important investigation ever undertaken by the ICAC and that there was corruption on a scale probably unexceeded since the days of the Rum Corps.

Keneally appeared as a witness at the ICAC in March 2014 concerning investigations of her former colleagues. She said that she had had concerns about Obeid, Tripodi and Tony Kelly's lobbying and that their efforts had not influenced her. Asked if Obeid had "put her in her job" as premier, Keneally replied: "No, caucus did".

Private sector

Sporting roles
In 2011, Keneally became a director of Souths Cares, the nominated charity of the South Sydney Rabbitohs and Chair of the Basketball Australia board.
She resigned from Parliament on 29 June 2012, to commence work as the Chief Executive of Basketball Australia. Keneally left Basketball Australia in April 2014 to spend more time with her family.
In 2016, she was named as Chairperson of Souths Cares following incumbent Chairman Nicholas Pappas stepping aside after eight years.

Political commentator and television host
In 2014, Keneally began a career as a media presenter. In May, she spent a week filling in for Ita Buttrose on panel show Studio 10.
In July, Keneally joined Sky News Australia and began co-hosting panel program The Contrarians every Friday afternoon with Ross Cameron, before the pair were given their own self-titled program Keneally and Cameron. This program was axed in April 2015. Keneally joined Peter van Onselen as co-host of Sky News daytime program To The Point on 1 June 2015 which airs during PVO NewsDay. Keneally was also a regular presenter of primetime programs The Cabinet and Credlin & Keneally. Upon announcing her intention to stand for Federal parliament, she took leave from Sky News on the same day as her announcement on 14 November 2017.

Keneally regularly contributed to The Guardian Australia on a range of politico-social issues such as religion in politics, same sex marriage and asylum seeking between December 2014 and June 2019.

Federal politics

Bennelong by-election, 2017
In November 2017, Keneally was preselected by federal Labor as their candidate for the Bennelong by-election on 16 December. Despite picking up a five percent two-party swing, she lost to the previous incumbent and Liberal candidate John Alexander.

Senator and opposition frontbencher, 2018–2022

On 30 January 2018, the Labor Party announced that Keneally would fill the casual vacancy caused by the resignation of New South Wales senator Sam Dastyari, who resigned earlier that month. Keneally was formally appointed to the vacancy on 14 February 2018 and was sworn in as a senator the following day.

In June 2018, Keneally stated her opposition to mandatory reporting for Catholic priests who are informed of child sexual abuse in confession; she believes it is not the most effective way to prevent abuse. Keneally also attended the Rambam Israel Fellowship Program in Israel, sponsored by the Australia/Israel and Jewish Affairs Council. The lobby group funded "transport, accommodation, meals and other associated costs".