[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Senator Theatre

eservation honored owner Tom Kiefaber with the “2003 Business Leadership Award”. The award was “in recognition of his tireless advocacy for historic, independent movie theaters".

Fundraisers
The Senator Theatre routinely hosts special events that have raised millions of dollars for local charities.

 Each December, the Senator holds an annual Holiday Classics Series on the large screen as a means of raising donations of food and cash to the Maryland Food Bank. "It's a Wonderful Life" and "A Christmas Carol" are usually shown.
 On February 22, 2007, the Senator Theatre hosted an American Heart Association Go Red for Women campaign fundraiser starring Gretchen Wilson.

Special screenings
The Senator Theatre has been the site of extended camp-outs where diehard fans await tickets for premieres of epic movie offerings, including series like Star Wars, Lord of the Rings, and Harry Potter. It is also the place where Maryland's big media franchises typically go to cover movie openings, and interview hardcore fans. The theatre has also hosted midnight shows of fan favorites such as the Star Wars movies.

The Senator Theatre has been used as a venue within Maryland Film Festival.

The Senator also hosts free screenings classic films in cooperation with community enrichment initiatives.

 The 1928 silent comedy classic "Speedy" starring Harold Lloyd was screened on February 19, 2007. It was accompanied by live music from Alloy Orchestra as part of Loyola College's 2007 Humanities Symposium.
 A free screening of "To Kill a Mockingbird" (1962) starring Gregory Peck was held on Saturday, March 24, 2007.

Recent struggles

The Senator theatre was scheduled to be auctioned on February 21, 2007. The auction was avoided due to $109,000 (USD) in donations through a grassroots campaign.

The Senator's struggles have been attributed to a practice known as “clearance“. Movie "clearing" or blocking occurs when rival theatres, usually multiplexes, invoke agreements with distribution houses to exclude a nearby theatre from ever concurrently running the same films that are running on any of their screens. The Senator's former owner, Tom Kiefaber explained: "We eventually overcame the (rival multiplexes') clearance, but without equal access to the first-run lifeblood of the film exhibition industry during that difficult period, we were forced to accumulate debt that is a continuing detriment to the economic viability of The Senator Theatre.“ The good news is that "if we are able to avert the auction sale...our district will soon become a ’free zone’ and the primary impediment to our profitability, a restrictive film clearance...by an independent Baltimore multiplex... will soon come to a blessed end.“

"(O)ur well-established, activist, anti-film clearance position (has been) outlined... in the national, [but alas not local] media coverage we have received over the years on the subject... in The New York Times, U.S. News & World Report, Forbes Small Business Magazine, USA Today, CBS Sunday Morning, and ABC News among others."

The Senator Theatre ceased showing first run movies on March 15, 2009. According to their website, "Senator Theatre management has announced that the screening of Watchmen on Sunday evening, March 15th, was the final first-run film to be shown at the renowned theatre in its 70 year history." It was revealed the theatre was again facing possible foreclosure.

On March 16, 2009, a town hall meeting was held by the local neighborhoods to rally support to save the Senator Theatre from the pending foreclosure and make it into a cultural center. No general agreement could be made to determine an effort in moving forward in the community's efforts to save the theatre. Attendees were told to wait a few more days as the neighborhood trust releases more details.

The Baltimore Sun noted the following on March 17, 2009: "The Senator Theatre stopped selling tickets Sunday night, as owner Tom Kiefaber unexpectedly closed the financially troubled movie house."

The City of Baltimore bought the mortgage to the Theatre in May 2009, and purchased the property (essentially from itself) at auction on July 23, 2009.

New owners have renovated the theater and plan additional renovations following its scheduled October 15, 2010, reopening. These include an additional screen, a small-plate restaurant, and a bar inside the lobby. They have uncovered original wooden paneling in the lobby's rotunda.

The Senator closed in September 2012, and reopened on October 10, 2013, with a screening of Baltimore local John Waters' classic movie Hairspray.

References

External links

 
 
, including photo from 1989, at Maryland Historical Trust

Art Deco architecture in Maryland
Cinemas and movie theaters in Maryland
Buildings and structures in Baltimore
Mid-Govans, Baltimore
Theatres on the National Register of Historic Places in Baltimore
Baltimore City Landmarks