[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Whistleblower Center

The National Whistleblower Center (NWC) is a nonprofit, nonpartisan, tax exempt, educational and advocacy organization based in Washington, D.C. It was founded in 1988 by the lawyers Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto, LLP. As of March 2019, John Kostyack is the executive director. Since its founding, the center has worked on whistleblower cases relating to environmental protection, nuclear safety, government and corporate accountability, and wildlife crime.

Programs
NWC operates three main programs: (1) providing whistleblowers with legal assistance, (2) advocating for policies that protect and reward whistleblowers such as the Dodd–Frank Act, the Sarbanes–Oxley Act, and the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act, and (3) educating the public about the importance of whistleblowers to preserving democracy and the rule of law.  The NWC strongly opposes efforts to weaken existing laws and pushes for strengthening laws protecting whistleblowers across sectors.

Starting in 2013, the U.S. Senate has recognized National Whistleblower Appreciation Day each year on July 30 at the urging of Senator Chuck Grassley, a founding member of the Whistleblower Protection Caucus in Congress. National Whistleblower Day Appreciation honors the anniversary of the United States' first whistleblower law, passed on July 30, 1778, during the height of the Revolutionary War. The National Whistleblower Center has hosted an annual celebration on the day to honor and celebrate the contributions of whistleblowers. Past speakers have included prominent members of Congress, agency heads, whistleblowers, and whistleblower advocates.

NWC Accomplishments
In addition to protecting the jobs and careers of numerous whistleblowers, the center's victories include the following:
 Winning reinstatement for the highest ranking nuclear whistleblower;
 Collecting millions of dollars in damages on behalf of whistleblowers;
 Using the Freedom of Information Act (United States) to force government agencies to release hundreds of thousands of pages of information documenting government misconduct;
 Exposing misconduct at the World Trade Center and the 9/11 crime scenes, including theft by FBI agents and the mishandling of evidence;
 Documenting deficiencies in the FBI's counterterrorism program;
 Requiring the FBI to create whistleblower protection for FBI agents for the first time in U.S. history;
 Forcing the FBI to accredit its crime lab;
 Forcing the United States Attorney General to withdraw gag orders on government employees who desired to expose ethical violations to Members of Congress;
 Successfully worked with Congress to ensure passage of critical whistleblower protection laws, such as the No-FEAR Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Corporate Whistleblower Protection Act, and the Civil Rights Tax Relief Act;
 Forcing President Bush to withdraw his nomination for head of enforcement at the United States Environmental Protection Agency due to former retaliation against whistleblowers;
 Preventing federal agencies from gagging employee speech critical of agency policies;
 Banning "hush money" payments for all environmental and nuclear federal safety cases;
 Exposing the vulnerabilities of U.S. nuclear power plants to airborne terrorist attacks and forcing reforms in the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
 Ensuring that military whistleblowers are informed of their rights by the Department of Defense;
 Establishing numerous legal precedents strengthening whistleblower protections for public and private sector employees, including expanding the scope of protected whistleblower speech, enjoining government regulations which restricted whistleblowing, and expanding the use of the Privacy Act to prevent the government from smearing its critics.

Prominent NWC whistleblowers

Bradley (Brad) Birkenfeld
Brad Birkenfeld is a former banker and wealth manager with UBS who exposed massive tax evasion in the Swiss banking system. He made history in 2012 when he received the largest ever whistleblower reward of $104 million from the IRS Office of the Whistleblower for reporting tax fraud. His disclosures resulted in unprecedented recoveries for US taxpayers with over $5 billion collected from US citizens with illegal "undeclared" offshore accounts and $780 million paid in fines and penalties by UBS.