[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger

d the posthumous verdict, saying on Twitter: "The conviction of the dead Magnitsky is further evidence of the Sovietization of Russia." A presidential human rights commission headed by former Russian president Dmitry Medvedev had found in 2011 that the charges against the lawyer had been fabricated.

With regard to the Russian LGBT propaganda law introduced in 2013, she commented in Welt am Sonntag that "Russia is taking another big step towards becoming a flawless dictatorship in ostracizing homosexuals." Unlike German chancellor Angela Merkel and foreign minister Guido Westerwelle at the time, Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger later suggested that the newly enacted law, which discriminates against gays and lesbians, could be grounds for boycotting the 2014 Winter Olympics.

On 3 March 2015, Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger attended the funeral of Russian politician Boris Nemtsov, who had been shot and killed on 27 February 2015.

Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger called chancellor Angela Merkel to show commitment to convince Russian president Vladimir Putin to release jailed Ukrainian filmmaker Oleg Sentsov.

On the fight against terrorism
After then-Interior Minister Wolfgang Schäuble confirmed in late 2005 that, under the previous government led by Gerhard Schröder, German agents had interviewed Mohammed Haydar Zammar, Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger condemned these methods: "If you're not allowed to torture, then you're not allowed to profit from information that may have been obtained through kidnapping and torture."

During a domestic debate on anti-terrorism legislation, Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger in 2010 warned that passenger profiling in German airports where passengers are categorized as high or low risk based on, among other things, their ethnic background, might fall foul of German and European law.

On arms exports
In the   (Bundessicherheitsrat), Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger was one of the most vocal critics of German arms exports to Saudi Arabia. In 2011, she initially opposed Merkel when the Council discussed Saudi Arabia's request for up to 270 Leopard 2 tanks, but then she deferred to the cabinet's decision. Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger did not attend a Council meeting in December 2012 when the ministers voted on the purchase of a few hundred "Boxer" armed transport vehicles.

On European integration
During the 2012–13 Cypriot financial crisis, Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger broke new ground by calling directly on European Union leaders to do more to defend Germany's role in helping the weaker Eurozone members. She noted that although all Eurozone member countries were involved in deciding on aid packages when a country applied for help, Germany always ended up as the target of anger.

On Vergangenheitsbewältigung of German Nazi pastlko;

During the period of Reunification in the 1990s', Leutheusser Schnarrenberger, as Minister of Justice, refused to return eight buildings in East Germany belonging to six Austrian Jewish citizens. Allgemeine Judische Wochenzeitung; 10 September 1992; "Expropriation through the back door; German Government adds to its coffers / Loopholes in German bureaucracy make Injustice permanent." ("Enteignung durch die Hintertur. Der  Bund bereichert sich / winkelzuge deutscher burokratie schreiben unrecht fest").

In the 2012 Munich artworks discovery, Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger refused to retroactively extend the statute of limitations in order to prosecute Cornelius Gurlitt, the 80-year-old who hoarded artworks for half a century, urging him instead to acknowledge he has "moral as well as legal obligations."

Other activities

Corporate boards
 Deutsche Telekom, Member of the Data Privacy Advisory Board (2009)

Non-profits
 Deutsche Postcode Lotterie, Vice Chair of the advisory board (since 2020)
 Deutsches Museum, Member of the Board of Trustees
 Transparency Germany, Member of the Board (since 2016)
 Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Criminal Law, Member of the Board of Trustees
 Theodor Heuss Foundation, Member of the Executive Committee
 Gegen Vergessen – Für Demokratie, Member
 Weißer Ring e.V. (Support for victims and crime prevention), Member
 Sebastian Cobler Foundation for Civil Rights, Member of the Board of Trustees
 Pro Justitia Foundation (Promoting Research in the field of Law), Member of the Advisory Board
 Humanist Union Bavaria, Member

Recognition
 1995 – Hamm-Brücher Medal
 1996 – Paul Klinger Prize by the Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft
 1997 – Mona Lisa Woman of the Year
 2002 – 1st Class of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
 2002 – Bavarian Order of Merit
 2010 – "Kompassnadel" of the Gay Network in North Rhine-Westphalia
 2011 – Silver Bavarian Constitutional Medal
 2013 – Max Alsberg Prize
 2014 – Arnold Freymuth Prize
 2016 – Max Friedlaender Prize

Personal life