[Source: PubMed]

50. Health Sci Rep. 2026 Mar 17;9(3):e72073. doi: 10.1002/hsr2.72073. eCollection
 2026 Mar.

Critical Evaluation of the Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic on Child Health and 
Wellbeing and Suggested Preparedness for Future Pandemics-A Narrative Review.

Mohapatra RK(1), Sarangi AK(2), Pattnaik G(3), Singh PK(4), Dash R(3), Kandi 
V(5), Kutikuppala LVS(6), Sahoo RN(7), Mishra S(4), Mishra A(8), Nasker SS(4), 
Nayak S(4), Alrasheed HA(9), Kaabi NAA(10)(11), Alshengeti A(12)(13), 
Abdulkhaliq AA(14), Rabaan AA(15)(16)(17), Al-Subaie MF(16)(18), Alhumaid S(19), 
Dhama K(20), Kudrat-E-Zahan M(21).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry Government College of Engineering Keonjhar Odisha 
India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, School of Applied Sciences Centurion University of 
Technology and Management R. Sitapur India.
(3)School of Pharmacy and Life Sciences Centurion University of Technology and 
Management R. Sitapur India.
(4)School of Biotechnology, Campus-11 KIIT Deemed-to-be-University Bhubaneswar 
Odisha India.
(5)Department of Microbiology Prathima Institute of Medical Sciences Karimnagar 
Telangana India.
(6)Department of General Surgery Dr NTR University of Health Sciences Vijayawada 
Andhra Pradesh India.
(7)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences Siksha O Anusandhan (Deemed to be 
University) Bhubaneswar Odisha India.
(8)QA Lead India RASA AI, ChatOwl Inc. 201 Spear Street, Suite 1100 San 
Francisco California USA.
(9)Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Pharmacy Princess Nourah Bint 
Abdulrahman University Riyadh Saudi Arabia.
(10)College of Medicine and Health Science Khalifa University Abu Dhabi United 
Arab Emirates.
(11)Sheikh Khalifa Medical City, Abu Dhabi Health Services Company (SEHA) Abu 
Dhabi United Arab Emirates.
(12)Department of Pediatrics, College of Medicine Taibah University Al-Madinah 
Saudi Arabia.
(13)Department of Infection Prevention and Control, Prince Mohammad Bin 
Abdulaziz Hospital National Guard Health Affairs Al-Madinah Saudi Arabia.
(14)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine Umm Al-Qura University 
Makkah Saudi Arabia.
(15)Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare Dhahran 
Saudi Arabia.
(16)College of Medicine Alfaisal University Riyadh Saudi Arabia.
(17)Department of Public Health and Nutrition The University of Haripur Haripur 
Pakistan.
(18)Research Center, Dr. Sulaiman Alhabib Medical Group Riyadh Saudi Arabia.
(19)School of Pharmacy University of Tasmania Hobart Australia.
(20)Division of Pathology, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute Bareilly 
Uttar Pradesh India.
(21)Department of Chemistry Rajshahi University Rajshahi Bangladesh.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The immediate and long-term effects of COVID-19 pandemic on 
the children go beyond just being a viral infection. A child's mental health and 
psychological issues like irritability, anxiety, sadness, non-attentiveness, 
attention deficit and hyperactive disorder needed evaluation. Based on these 
study queries, an investigation was carried out to correlate the psychological 
state and the emergency measures in children with respect to the health and 
wellbeing outcomes.
METHODS: A web-search across scientific databases like the Web of Science, 
Scopus and PubMed was undertaken for a situational review through available 
literature, and derive credible solutions. This narrative review included 
peer-reviewed articles published between January 2020 and February 2026 in 
English language, focusing on children wellbeing in wake of the COVID-19 
pandemic. After analysing the authenticity and relevance of the literature, 158 
articles/data were shortlisted for further analyses. The data were qualitatively 
validated, synthesised into discrete sections and interpreted in the context of 
the objective of the study.
RESULT: Children particularly in low-economy families were likely to experience 
violence and abuse if they stayed for long in high-risk settings like refugee 
settlements for internally displaced community. On the contrary, the children of 
high-economy families had weight gain issues owing to erratic consumption 
patterns of high-calorie food (like dairy products and sugar-rich packaged 
snacks) coupled with restricted or limited physical activities. Their dietary 
patterns and unhealthy eating habits needed monitoring and restrictions to curb 
obesity risk in the long run. Elevated stress, anxiety and depression levels in 
a child may result in cognitive impairment. The possibilities of their getting 
addicted, developing insomnia and acquiring non-communicable illnesses were 
aspects to consider. Preventive measures like social distancing, lockdowns and 
shutdowns and mass vaccination drives had wider and critical long-term impact on 
the young and adolescent. Formulating workable modalities to identify critical 
influencing factors of a pandemic and assess the impact on the children and 
beyond is essential for foolproof solutions to combat future occurrences.
CONCLUSION: Identifying the associated risk factors and correlating the 
emergency measures and psychological health seem essential. The supply of 
quality food seamlessly to the affected communities and the provision of 
protective gears for the healthcare workers could help keep the children 
well-fed and relaxed while ensuring the wellbeing of healthcare workers. 
Maternal and infant care, child-health services, and life-saving medicines and 
vaccines would also help ease the pressure.

© 2026 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hsr2.72073
PMCID: PMC13098172
PMID: 42022686

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.