[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brazilian diaspora

ian pop culture. Approximately a fourth of all foreigners currently residing in Portugal are Brazilian citizens.

Paraguay 

Brazilians and their descendants living in Paraguay are called Brasiguayos. This numerous community of landowners is mainly involved in agriculture.

Mexico

Australia

Angola

Organizations 
Brazilian Immigrant Center Boston
Brazilian Community in Massachusetts in English
Brazilian Community in California in English
Brazilian Community in New Jersey in English and Portuguese
Brazilian Community in New York in English
BCA-Brazilian Community Association in British Columbia Vancouver
Estimates of Brazilians living abroad by region in Portuguese

Statistics 

1Data from 2018 - In 2020, Brazil closed its embassy in Caracas during the Venezuelan presidential crisis. The embassy is reopening in 2023.

2The Brazilian Embassy in Port of Spain is responsible for Brazilians in Trinidad and Tobago, Aruba and Curaçao. There are 250 Brazilians living in Aruba, 200 in Curaçao and 113 in Trinidad and Tobago. 

3The Brazilian Embassy in Bridgetown is responsible for Brazilians in multiple Caribbean nations, there are Brazilians living in Barbados, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Saint Kitts and Nevis and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.

5In the case of European Union countries, due to the Schengen Space, Brazilians registered in other consulates or those who hold dual citizenship might live in other countries. The Consulate of Brazil in Brussels is responsible for Brazilians in Luxembourg. There are 8.000 Brazilians living in Luxembourg.

6The Embassy of Brazil in Sófia is also responsible for Brazilians in North Macedonia.

7The Embassy of Brazil to Denmark is responsible for Brazilians in Lithuania.

8 The Consulate of Brazil in Barcelona is responsible for Brazilians in Andorra.

9 The Embassy of Brazil in Oslo is also responsible for Brazilians in Iceland. There are 287 Brazilians living in Iceland.

10The Consulates of Brazil in Italy are responsible for Brazilians in Malta and San Marino.

11The Embassy of Brazil to Ukraine is responsible for Brazilians in Moldova. There are 12 Brazilians living in Moldova.

12The Embassy of Brazil to France is responsible for Brazilians in Monaco. There are 100 Brazilians living in Monaco.

13The Embassy of Brazil to Serbia is responsible for Brazilians in Montenegro. There are 41 Brazilians living in Montenegro.

14The Embassy of Brazil to Sweden is responsible for Brazilians in Latvia.

15The Consulate of Brazil in Zurich is responsible for Brazilians in Liechtenstein.

16The Embassy of Brazil to Saudi Arabia is responsible for Brazilians in Yemen.

17The Embassy of Brazil in Pretoria is responsible for Brazilians in Lesotho and Mauritius.

18The Embassy of Brazil to Benin is also responsible for Brazilians in Niger.

19The Embassy of Brazil to Kenya is responsible for Brazilians in Burundi, Rwanda, Somalia and Uganda. There are 280 Brazilians living in Kenya, 15 in Burundi, 35 in Rwanda, 20 in Somalia and 50 in Uganda.

20The Embassy of Brazil to Cameroon is responsible for Brazilians in Chad. There are 16 Brazilians living in Chad.

21The Embassy of Brazil to Egypt is responsible for Brazilians in Eritrea.

22The Embassy of Brazil to Mozambique is responsible for Brazilians in Eswatini and Madagascar. There are 9 Brazilians living in Eswatini and 20 in Madagascar.

23The Embassy of Brazil to Ethiopia is responsible for Brazilians in Djibouti and South Sudan.

24The Embassy of Brazil to Ghana is responsible for Brazilians in Liberia and Sierra Leone.

25The Embassy of Brazil to Republic of Congo is responsible for Brazilians in Central African Republic.

26The Embassy of Brazil to Tanzania is responsible for Brazilians in Seychelles and Comoros. There is 1 Brazilian living in Seychelles.

27The Embassy of Brazil to Malasya is responsible for Brazilians in Brunei. There are 5 Brazilians living in Brunei.

28The Embassy of Brazil to Thailand is responsible for Brazilians in Cambodia and Laos.  There are 15 Brazilians living in Cambodia.

29The Embassy of Brazil to Kazakhstan is responsible for Brazilians in Turkmenistan and Kyrgyzstan. There is 1 Brazilian living in Kyrgyzstan.

30The Embassy of Brazil to China is responsible for Brazilians in Mongolia.

31The Embassy of Brazil to Philippines is responsible for Brazilians in Marshall Islands, Palau, Federated States of Micronesia, Northern Mariana Islands and Guam. There are 3 Brazilians living in Guam and 1 living in the Federated States of Micronesia.

32The Embassy of Brazil to India is responsible for Brazilians in Bhutan.

33The Embassy of Brazil to Pakistan is responsible for Brazilians in Afghanistan and Tajikistan. There are 4 Brazilians living in Tajikistan.

34The Embassy of Brazil to Sri Lanka is responsible for Brazilians in Maldives.

35The Embassy of Brazil to Russia is responsible for Brazilians in Uzbekistan. There are 6 Brazilians living in Uzbekistan.