[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bhaktivedanta Manor

w, Olivia Harrison, together with celebrity gardener Monty Don and author Peter Owen-Jones, attended a private ceremony to unveil the garden on 25 May that year. A road on the property, which was earlier an unnamed track across a park, is now named Dharam Marg, which is Hindi for "the way of truth".

The Manor celebrates Harrison's contribution to ISKCON with an event held each year on 29 November, the date of his death. For the twentieth anniversary of his death, in 2021, Bhaktivedanta Manor hosted Evening with George Harrison, consisting of remembrances, archival film footage, and live performances of Harrison's music.

Campaign to save the temple
By the late 1970s, Bhaktivedanta Manor had become a popular visiting place for London's large Hindu population, particularly since, unlike in areas of the UK such as the Midlands, it was a rare example of a local temple for Krishna worship. The 1979 and 1980 Janmashtami festivals attracted up to 15,000 visitors per day, resulting in increased road traffic through Aldenham and complaints to Hertsmere Borough Council. Having originally permitted ISKCON to use the site as a theological college, in line with the educational function that the property served under St Bart's ownership, Hertsmere Council moved to ban all religious festivals at Bhaktivedanta Manor in 1981. ISKCON subsequently acquired a property near Worcester – Croome Court – which became the movement's UK headquarters temporarily, including the site of its school. An agreement between the council and the ISKCON devotees, made in January 1983, then allowed for six days each year where the number of people attending Bhaktivedanta Manor could exceed 1000. Financial difficulties forced the closure of the Croome Court base in July 1984, however, leading to a renewed dependence on the Aldenham property.

During 1985, the devotees tried to buy adjoining land to make road access to the Manor that would bypass the village. Meanwhile, the council received many more local complaints, leading it to issue an enforcement notice in January 1987 to have the temple closed to the public, citing a breach of the 1000-person daily limit. The temple submitted an appeal to the UK's Department of the Environment. A series of government inquiries over 1987–89 recognised the importance of Aldenham's position within the Letchmore Heath Conservation Area, and in 1990 the Secretary of State announced that Bhaktivedanta Manor would have to close as a temple. Appeals to the British High Court, the Court of Appeal and the European Court for Human Rights – the latter heard as ISKCON and 8 Others v. United Kingdom – all similarly failed, and a date of 16 March 1994 was set for the closure. In the months leading up to the deadline, the devotees bought the neighbouring land, and submitted a development proposal to Hertsmere Council, with a view to making a road that would bring all traffic into the Manor from the A41, on the opposite (west) side of the property from the village. On the day of the proposed closure, a crowd estimated at 36,000 marched on the British government's offices at Westminster in protest, as the council deliberated over the application for a new road.

The Hertsmere councillors declined the proposal, leading to further campaigning by the devotees and, in early 1996, another appeal to the Department of the Environment. By this point, ISKCON's cause had attracted support from the BBC and members of the national Parliament. Six months after the appeal was lodged, the Department of the Environment granted permission for the proposed road, with the Secretary of State concluding:

[Bhaktivedanta Manor] is unique in the UK because there is no comparable alternative place for teaching, worship and meditation; and the level of provision of these religious facilities is to an exceptionally high standard. Furthermore, the close association of the Hare Krishna movement's founder with the Manor makes it a special, if not unique place …

The road was duly built, through what was now a 70-acre property, bypassing the village of Aldenham. In September 1998, visitors to the Janmashtami festival numbered 60,000 – a figure described by the local Borehamwood & Elstree Times in 2007 as "the average number of people" attending the festival each year. According to a 2013 BBC News report, the grounds of Bhaktivedanta Manor now include "a theological college, organic farm, herb gardens, a cow sanctuary, primary school and kitchens providing meals for the homeless".