[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Law enforcement in Germany

to apply for the approval to purchase a private firearm, that can be carried off-duty. Further restrictions that forbid off-duty carry exist (i.e. when drinking alcohol, at public events). In their private properties, the officers are required to have a safe to store their gun while not carrying it.

Women in the Police
The state police forces have had female members since the implementation of the several police forces after World War II. Initially, female officers were assigned to cases involving juveniles and women, working in plainclothes without weapons. Since the mid-1970s, female police officers have performed general police patrol duties and their proportion of total police officers is steadily rising. However, their representation in leadership positions is still relatively low.

Alert Police
The Alert Police (), literally "Readiness or Standby Police" is available in each state for riot control, although their primary function is training police recruits. In this tasks it is comparable with Anti-Riot Police Forces in other countries. Beside this, the Federal Police maintains a  as well, to assist the state police forces if necessary. While the states are free to choose the equipment and to organize their police forces autonomously, the state and federal alert police units receive standardized weapons, vehicles, anti-riot gears and communications equipment from the federal government by law. An office in the Federal Ministry of Interior monitors and coordinates the deployment of the  units, which can be called upon to assist the police of other states in case of riots or other civil unrest.

The Alert Police is assigned to barracks where they are organized along military lines into squads, platoons, and 120- to 150-member training or standby companies. In most states, the  contingents consists of one 600- to 800-member battalion, but in six of the larger states they are organized into regiments.

Duties vary according to local requirements. In Hamburg, for example, the  patrol the subway system, assist in police raids in the red-light district, and are present at large demonstrations and soccer matches. Their units are equipped with their own transport, tents, and rations, enabling them to be shifted quickly to other  without having to rely on outside support. The Readiness Police have water cannons and armoured vehicles but are armed with lighter weapons than those of the federal police.

All state alert police forces and the federal alert police force maintain specialized units as well, the so-called Arrest Units (, lit. "Units for arrests and securing evidence", abbreviated BFE). The BFE units were established in 1987 after two police officers were killed during demonstrations against the expansion of Frankfurt Airport.

As a reaction to several terrorist attacks in Europe since 2015, an additional unit, the BFE+, was implemented in summer 2015. The BFE+ should provide specialized operators for long lasting (search) operations for example after a terrorist attack.

Career brackets 
In general, the German law enforcement authorities of today have personnel of three available career brackets, the lowest being the "" ("middle service"), followed by the so-called "" ("elevated service") and the "" ("higher service"). Only the Federal Customs Administration (Bundeszollverwaltung) and the Departments of Justice and Corrections of the states ( — Justice Enforcement Service) still have personnel of the very lowest career bracket "" ("simple service"). To understand this structure it may be helpful to compare it with military rank structures because decades ago it was really similar.

Development of career 
Today nine of sixteen State Police Forces recruit only for the career bracket of the "".

Entry into "" requires successful completion of 10 years of schooling, or a successful training in any other job and some years of working in this job. Period of training is 2 years at the police academy starting with the rank of . The highest possible rank in this bracket is that of . In the mid to late seventies the "" was disestablished for the detective branch , but in some states of the former GDR, they still exist. Rank designation, in this case, f.e. .

Entry into the "" requires a high-school diploma and period of training is 3 years at a college of administration and justice. The highest possible rank in this career is that of .

The third career bracket is the so-called "". A direct entry into this career bracket is possible and requires a law degree of a university, but the majority of these officers had started their career in "" or "". The period of training is 2 years at the  or German Police University. That is the only official centralised educational institution of the German police. Starting at the rank of "" or "" (literally "police counsellor" or "detective counsellor") up to "" ("police president"), which is (in most German states) equivalent to the rank of Chief of Police in the USA.