[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Evergreen (software)

Evergreen is an open-source integrated library system (ILS), initially developed by the Georgia Public Library Service for Public Information Network for Electronic Services (PINES), a statewide resource-sharing consortium with over 270 member libraries.

Beyond PINES, the Evergreen ILS is deployed worldwide in approximately 1,800 libraries, and is used to power a number of statewide consortial catalogs.

In 2007, the original Evergreen development team formed a commercial company around the software, Equinox Software, which provides custom support, development, migration, training, and consultation for Evergreen.  Equinox Software was later supplanted by the Equinox Open Library Initiative, a non-profit.  As of 2014, several more companies and groups also provide support and related services for Evergreen.

History
Evergreen was developed by the Georgia Public Library Service (GPLS) to support 252 public libraries in the Public Information Network for Electronic Services (PINES) consortium.  Development began in June 2004 when state librarian Lamar Veatch announced in an open letter that after reviewing options available, GPLS decided to develop its own library automation system.  GPLS believed it could develop a system customized to fit its needs better at a lower cost than the fees currently being paid.  Programmers in the GPLS developed the project for two years, and PINES successfully completed the transition to Evergreen on September 5, 2006.  In the next two years, the PINES consortium increased to over 270 libraries and five other systems in the United States and Canada implemented Evergreen.

The software started receiving contributions from other libraries and developers in 2007. 2009 saw the first Evergreen International Conference. In 2012, the community joined the Software Freedom Conservancy and formed an oversight board. In 2019 the Evergreen Community elected an Evergreen Project board as part of their transition to a stand-alone non-profit organization.

Other Evergreen implementations in North America:

 Beauregard Parish Library (Louisiana, 6 branches)
 BC Libraries Cooperative - Sitka (consortium of 92 multitype libraries, 150+ branches in BC and Manitoba)
 Consortium Of Ohio Libraries COOL (13 libraries)
 CW MARS (Massachusetts, 155 libraries)
 Evergreen Indiana (129 libraries)
 Kenton County Public Library (Kentucky, 3 libraries)
 King County Library System (Washington, 50 libraries) 
 Library of Virginia (Evergreen Virginia) (10 libraries)
 Maine Balsam (10 libraries)
 Mohawk College Library (3 libraries)
 NC Cardinal (North Carolina, 216 libraries)
 Missouri Evergreen (52 Libraries districts, 133 service locations)
 Niagara Libraries (Ontario, 11 libraries),
 North of Boston Library Exchange (NOBLE) (Massachusetts, 28 libraries)
 North Texas Library Consortium (rural area outside Fort Worth, 17 libraries),
 PaILS is the Pennsylvania Integrated Library System (ILS), over 100 libraries,
 Pioneer Library System (Upstate New York between Rochester and Syracuse, 42 libraries),
 Sage Library System (Northeast Oregon, 60 libraries)
 SCLENDS (South Carolina, 72 libraries)
 SPARK (Pennsylvania, 110 libraries and growing)
 SPRUCE (Manitoba, Canada, 8 libraries)
 Traverse Area District Library (Michigan, 6 libraries)
 Westchester County Library System (New York, 43 libraries)

Features
Development priorities for Evergreen are that it be stable, robust, flexible, secure, and user-friendly.