[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sirte

month, NTC fighters mounted a major offensive and took control of the last remaining district of Sirte, "Number Two", that was in the hands of regime loyalists. Muammar Gaddafi attempted to flee the city, but he was injured and captured by fighters. He was killed in custody less than an hour later.

Sirte was left heavily damaged by a month of intense fighting, which was preceded by NATO airstrikes throughout the war, and was considered to have been subjected to the most damage of any Libyan city during the civil war. Many homes were ransacked and looted by fighters, angering residents including those loyal to Gaddafi and those sympathetic to the revolution. Many streets and buildings also experienced flooding as water mains were destroyed, though it was unclear by which side. Landmarks like the Ouagadougou Conference Center, which became an impromptu fortress for the city's defenders during the battle, were ruined by artillery fire and blasts. A number of Libyan residents and fighters described the city as unrecognisable after weeks of siege.

Postwar 
In April 2012, almost six months after the civil war, more than 70 percent of the inhabitants had returned to Sirte. Rebuilding of the city started, although unexploded ordnance still posed a great risk to civilians. In February 2012, some local residents said they felt abandoned by the National Transitional Council (NTC), but the new government had promised to rebuild the city and Deputy Prime Minister Mustafa Abushagur insisted this would happen.  Some local rebuilding was done in 2012 and 2013, but reconstruction of municipal services did not begin until a 9 million Libyan dinars reconstruction project started in 2014.

ISIL occupation

During the widespread chaos and civil war that followed the revolution and led to the erosion of territorial control under the General National Congress (GNC) (which had succeeded the NTC) and the new GNC (NGNC), local loyalists to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), which had previously seized the port city of Derna, launched an attack in March 2015 to capture Sirte, which was then occupied by the Libya Shield Force, an NGNC-linked militia. Sirte fell to ISIL loyalists in May 2015.

Following the formation of a new Tripoli-based government, the Government of National Accord (GNA), an offensive backed by the United Nations was launched in May 2016 by GNA-aligned forces, known as the Bunyan Marsous, to recapture Sirte. After two months of advances, pro-government forces took control of ISIL's Sirte headquarters on 10 August 2016, although pockets of ISIL resistance continued to prolong fighting through the end of the year. Sirte was substantially under the control of the GNA by 6 December 2016.  A contributing factor to the recapture of the city were the over 400 airstrikes organized by the United States Africa Command against ISIL positions during the months-long battle. Approximately 700 Libya pro-government fighters and 2,000 ISIL loyalists died in Sirte between May and November 2016.

Reconstruction
Mayoral elections were scheduled for 12 December 2016 with the previously (2015) municipal councilmen taking office again.

Second Libyan Civil War

The Libyan National Army fought a battle with the GNA and entered the city on 6 January 2020.

GNA forces launched an attack to capture Sirte from the LNA on 6 June 2020. 
LNA forces proposed a ceasefire backed by Egypt. However, the GNA rejected the ceasefire as they entered Sirte. Despite this, the attack was thwarted the following day, which led to the LNA retaliating by conducting airstrikes from Mig-29s on a huge Turkish convoy of military and GNA forces heading for Sirte, destroying it and resulting in heavy GNA and possibly Turkish casualties.

Climate

Sirte has a hot desert climate (Köppen: BWh) with hot, dry summers and mild, somewhat rainy winters.

See also

 List of cities in Libya
 Transport in Libya
 Railway stations in Libya
 Qadhadhfa

References

External links

 
Former national capitals
Populated places in Sirte District
Populated coastal places in Libya
Gulf of Sidra
Muammar Gaddafi
Tripolitania
Baladiyat of Libya
20th-century establishments in Libya
Populated places established in the 20th century