[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eelam War III

Eelam War III is the name given to the third phase of armed conflict between the Sri Lankan military and the separatist Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).

After the period of 100 days cease-fire the hostilities broke out on 19 April 1995. The LTTE - Sea Tigers planted explosives in two gun boats known as SLNS 'Sooraya' and 'Ranasuru', and blew them up.

Also, a new weapon "Stinger", a shoulder-launched anti-aircraft missile was used in this conflict by the LTTE. This was used to take down two Sri Lankan Air Force AVRO aircraft flying over the Jaffna peninsula.

Eelam War III also marked the rising success of the LTTE, as they managed to capture key districts such as Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu, and took over the Elephant Pass base. By the end of Eelam War III, the LTTE had control of nearly 30% of the entire island.

Major military operations (in chronological order)

 19 April 1995: The LTTE sinks SLNS Sooraya and SLNS Ranasuru ending peace talks. 

 28 June 1995: The LTTE overruns the Sri Lankan military base at Mandaitivu. 

 28 July 1995: The LTTE attack the Sri Lankan military base at Weli Oya and is repulsed with heavy loses. 

 17 October - 5 December 1995 : Government launches Operation Riviresa -recapturing the Jaffna peninsular from the LTTE.

 July 18, 1996 : The LTTE overruns the Sri Lankan military base at Mullaitivu, the attack carried out after midnight. The number of killed in action and missing in action were around 1600 as per military sources. There were more than 4000 LTTE cadre's participated the attack and captured large quantity of arms and military equipment. The base was used as Sri Lanka Army's 215 Brigade Headquarters. One of the major encounters broke out between the LTTE and the Special Forces (SF) commando reinforcements Lt. Col. Laphir and 36 others were killed and 60 more were wounded. Sri Lanka Air-force pilots landed the second batch of Commando's in the same location and also taken the dead body of Lt. Col.Laphir by rope pulled down from the helicopter under heavy LTTE gunfire. The code name given by the LTTE "Oyatha Alaikal" (Endless Waves) to attack the Mullaitivu Military base and SLA code was named as "Operation Thrivida Pahara" for the rescue mission.
 Operation Sathjaya 1997: SLA launched Operation Sathjaya to capture Kilinochchi from LTTE. After 70 days of siege Army finally captured Kilinochchi.
 Operation Jayasikurui (1997-1998): In May 1997 SLA launched Operation Jayasikurui (Sure Victory) to open land route to Jaffna Peninsula. The main objective of the operation was to liberate   A9 Highway from Vavuniya to Kilinochchi. The total distance was approximately 70 km. Army abandoned this operation after 18 months without achieving its main goal. 
 Operation Unceasing Waves II: LTTE launched Operation Unceasing Waves II also known as 1998 Battle of Kilinochchi. . LTTE recaptured Kilinochchi town from Army after 3 days of intense battle. 
 Operation Ranagosha (Battle cry): It was carried out in 4 phases. Army captured more than 500sq.km. of LTTE territory in Vanni (Sri Lanka).
 Operation Rivibala: It was a secret operation launched by Army to capture Oddusuddan. It was an important LTTE base near LTTE's stronghold Mullaitivu. 
 Operation Unceasing Waves III: LTTE launched Operation Unceasing Waves III on the first week of November 1999. On first day LTTE began Oddusuddan offensive (1999). After capturing the base they attacked Kanakarayankulam Army HQ. After the fall of the base LTTE recaptured most part of Vanni .
 Second Battle of Elephant Pass: LTTE after liberating Vanni launched their attack to liberate Jaffna Peninsula. Known as Second Battle of Elephant Pass LTTE stepped up operation inside Jaffna Peninsula. Under the leadership of Brig. Balraj LTTE launched SL Civil War's largest behind enemy line operation. After 34 days long battle Elephant Pass  base fell to Tamil Tigers.
 Operation Unceasing Waves IV: On 26 September 2000 LTTE launched Operation Unceasing Waves IV. The objective of the operation was to capture Jaffna.
 LTTE's Unilateral ceasefire: On 24 December 2000 LTTE declared Unilateral ceasefire. It was ended on 24 April 2001. 
 Operation Agni keela: Army launched Operation Agnikeela on 25 April 2001within few hours after LTTE ended their unilateral ceasefire. Its main objective was to retake Elephant Pass Garrison which they lost to LTTE one year back. LTTE had Booby trap whole paths and effectively positioned their artillery and mortar units. Due to heavy casualties, the army abandoned the operation.
 2002 Peace Process: After few rounds of talks Sri Lankan Government and LTTE signed permanent ceasefire on 22 February 2002. Thus Eelam War III came to an end.

Civilian killings

Kallarawa massacre