[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hermes França

Hermes França Barros (; born August 26, 1974) is a Brazilian mixed martial artist. He has competed for the UFC, WEC, MFC, and Israel FC. He is a former WEC Lightweight Champion, and former UFC Lightweight Championship contender.

Mixed martial arts career

Early career
França made his professional Mixed Martial Arts debut on 17 November 2001, with a win over future WEC Featherweight Champion Mike Skinner.  He quickly earned an undefeated streak of 6–0, finishing all his opponents under the limit of the second round, drawing the attention of the UFC.

First UFC run
França made his UFC debut at UFC 42, defeating Richard Crunkilton by unanimous decision. He won his next UFC fight against Caol Uno (who narrowly missed the lightweight championship after drawing with B.J. Penn) at UFC 44 before losing a majority decision to Josh Thomson at UFC 46.

His next outing in the UFC, against Yves Edwards, was unsuccessful, losing the fight by split decision. Edwards would once again beat França by split decision in their encounter at Euphoria: USA vs. World in 2005, starting what would be a very bad year – marked with three straight losses – for the Brazilian fighter.

After UFC release
However, 2006 would prove to be a much better year for França. In March, he toppled WEC champion Gabe Ruediger to capture the WEC Lightweight championship and then knocked out Team Quest fighter Ryan Schultz to take the AFC Lightweight championship in April.

França continued his winning streak against the likes of Toby Imada and Brandon Olsen before signing a contract to fight Roger Huerta at UFC 61 in July. Although França's opponent was changed – Huerta pulled out due to injury, with UFC newcomer Joe Jordan taking his place – França still reigned successful in his UFC return, stopping Jordan by triangle choke submission in the third round.

Second UFC run
On August 4, 2006, it was revealed that França had accepted a late-notice fight with Jamie Varner at UFC 62. França came in as a late replacement for Spencer Fisher, who injured his back while preparing for the fight. Despite accepting the fight on short notice, França reigned victorious, catching Varner in an armbar submission in the third round.

França successfully defended his WEC Lightweight championship against Nathan Diaz, brother of UFC veteran Nick Diaz, at WEC 24 on October 12, extending França's win streak in 2006 to seven consecutive victories.

França won his fight against Spencer Fisher at UFC Fight Night 8 by TKO in the second round; after his victory he got down on his knees (à la Georges St-Pierre) and begged UFC President Dana White to grant him a title shot against Sean Sherk. During the post-fight press conference White confirmed that França would be given a title shot at UFC 73. França lost to Sean Sherk by unanimous decision. On July 19, 2007, the California State Athletic Commission announced França had tested positive for the banned steroid Drostanolone in a post-fight drug test following his championship fight at UFC 73. He had been suspended from competing in California until July 5, 2008, and had been fined $2,500.

He has since left The Armory and was then removed from their main site as an instructor.

Franca spent early January 2008 helping BJ Penn train for his five-round fight against Joe Stevenson for the vacant UFC lightweight championship at UFC 80.

França lost his first fight in the UFC since his suspension in 2007 on July 19, 2008, to Frankie Edgar via unanimous decision.

He then defeated Marcus Aurélio via unanimous decision at UFC 90 on October 25, 2008.

França was scheduled to fight Joe Lauzon on February 7 in the main event for UFC Fight Night 17. However, França pulled out of the event with a torn anterior crucial ligament in his right knee. França made his return against Tyson Griffin on September 19, 2009, at UFC 103. Franca lost his fight to Tyson Griffin in the second round via TKO (Punches) after Griffin caught him with a straight right followed up by brutal ground and pound, eventually knocking out França for his second ever KO loss.

After his defeat at the hands of Tyson Griffin at UFC 103, França was released by the organization, along with other UFC veterans, Chris Wilson, Marcus Aurélio and Justin McCully.

After second UFC release
Following the loss to Eric Wisely and losing four out of his last five fights, Franca announced through his manager, Reed Wallace, his retirement.

Franca has since come out of retirement and has bounced back after an 0-3-1 record in four fights during 2010. Franca won via submission in February 2011 then scored two wins in April 2011 defeating Robert Washington and Josh Thorpe.