[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Craig Shakespeare

left the club in the bottom three of the Premier League.

On 1 December 2017, Shakespeare was appointed first team coach at Everton following the appointment of Sam Allardyce as manager the previous day. On 16 May 2018, Allardyce and his backroom staff, including Shakespeare, were sacked by Everton.

On 6 December 2019, Shakespeare was reunited with Nigel Pearson once again, as he was named as assistant manager at Watford. He remained in this role until 19 July 2020, when Pearson and his backroom staff were sacked, despite there only being two games left in the season, and Watford being out of the relegation zone at that point. Watford went on to lose both their remaining games, and suffer relegation from the Premier League.

On 7 August 2020, Shakespeare was appointed as assistant head coach to former Walsall teammate Dean Smith at Aston Villa, the team he supported growing up. On 8 November 2021, Shakespeare parted company with Aston Villa, the day after Smith left the club. On 15 November 2021, Shakespeare was appointed assistant head coach at Norwich City, again under Dean Smith who became the club's new head coach. On 10 April 2023, Shakespeare was appointed assistant head coach at Leicester City, again under Dean Smith who became the club's new head coach.

Personal life
On 12 October 2023, it was announced that Shakespeare has been diagnosed with cancer.

Managerial statistics

Honours
Walsall
Third Division play-off winner: 1988

References

External links

1963 births
Living people
Footballers from Birmingham, West Midlands
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Walsall F.C. players
Sheffield Wednesday F.C. players
West Bromwich Albion F.C. players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Scunthorpe United F.C. players
Telford United F.C. players
Hednesford Town F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
English football managers
Leicester City F.C. managers
West Bromwich Albion F.C. managers
English Football League managers
Premier League managers
West Bromwich Albion F.C. non-playing staff
Leicester City F.C. non-playing staff
Hull City A.F.C. non-playing staff
Everton F.C. non-playing staff
Watford F.C. non-playing staff
Aston Villa F.C. non-playing staff
Norwich City F.C. non-playing staff
Association football coaches