[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Solomon Cartwright

he Council unanimously elected him mayor, but he declined to serve.  When the new governor general, Lord Durham, visited Kingston on a tour of Upper Canada in the summer of 1838, Cartwright was chosen to give the welcoming address on behalf of the town.

Cartwright's conditions for union of Canadas 

Following the rebellions of 1837, there was a clear understanding that there had to be structural changes in the governments of Upper Canada and Lower Canada.  The British government sent Lord Durham to investigate the political situation and to make recommendations for change.  In his Report, Lord Durham recommended that the two Canadas should be re-united under a single government, with local control through the principle of responsible government, as used in the British Parliament.  Durham also had harsh words for the Tories and the Family Compact, and their dominance of public affairs in the province, in spite of their lack of popular support.

Tories such as Cartwright were strongly opposed to Durham's recommendation for responsible government, which would reduce their power.  Cartwright was deeply supportive of the British connection and British North America's place in the British Empire, but as he explained some years later in a letter to Governor General Bagot, he viewed the principle of responsible government as unfitted to the local conditions of Upper Canada: "... with our position as a Colony, – particularly in a country where almost universal suffrage prevails, – where the great mass of the people are uneducated, – and where there is but little of that salutary influence which hereditary rank and great wealth exercises in Great Britain."

The decision on union rested with the British government, but they considered it important to have support from the local British colonists of Upper Canada.  In the spring session of 1839, the Legislative Assembly debated the union proposal given by the Lieutenant Governor, Sir George Arthur, who had replaced Bond Head.  By substantial majorities, the Assembly voted its general approval of the proposal, in three related resolutions.  Cartwright was amongst the majority who voted in favour of the union, and voted against a proposed amendment which suggested the French-Canadians of Lower Canada had forfeited their civil and political rights by their "disloyalty" in the late rebellion.  Like the other Tories, he strongly supported maintaining the British connection.  As well, as a businessman, he saw the commercial advantages if Upper Canada and Lower Canada were re-united into one single province, eliminating potential trade and customs barriers.

The Assembly then appointed a select committee to prepare instructions for a proposed delegation to London to set out the views of Upper Canadian supporters of the union.  Cartwright was one of the members of the select committee. Although he supported union in principle, he was concerned that the English population of Upper Canada would lose control if united with French-speaking Lower Canada, which had a greater population.  When the report of the select committee came to the Assembly for consideration, he proposed a series of conditions to seek guarantees of continued influence for Upper Canada.  Key amongst the conditions were that Upper Canada would have more representatives in the new Legislative Assembly than Lower Canada;  the Gaspé region would be transferred from Lower Canada to New Brunswick; the existing members of the Legislative Council of Upper Canada would be continued in office in the legislative council of the new government;  the capital would be in Upper Canada;  and only English would be used in the Parliament and the courts.  The Legislative Assembly approved the Cartwright resolutions, and passed an additional resolution that it would be "distinctly opposed" to the union unless those resolutions were incorporated.