[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Microsoft Corp. v. Commission

Microsoft had allowed "a range of innovative products that would otherwise not have seen the light of day" to reach the market.

The fines will not be distributed to the companies that lost income due to Microsoft practices. The money paid in fines to the European Court goes back into the EU budget.

Related investigations
In May 2008, the EU announced it was going to investigate Microsoft Office's OpenDocument format support.

In January 2009, the European Commission announced it would investigate the bundling of Internet Explorer with Windows operating systems from Microsoft, saying "Microsoft's tying of Internet Explorer to the Windows operating system harms competition between web browsers, undermines product innovation and ultimately reduces consumer choice." In response, Microsoft announced that it would not bundle Internet Explorer with Windows 7 E, the version of Windows 7 to be sold in Europe.

On 16 December 2009, the European Union agreed to allow competing browsers, with Microsoft providing a "ballot box" screen letting users choose one of twelve popular products listed in random order. The twelve browsers were Avant, Chrome, Firefox, Flock, GreenBrowser, Internet Explorer, K-Meleon, Maxthon, Opera, Safari, Sleipnir, and Slim, which were accessible via BrowserChoice.eu. The automatic nature of the BrowserChoice.eu feature was dropped in Windows 7 Service Pack 1 in February 2011 and remained absent for 14 months despite Microsoft reporting that it was still present, subsequently described by Microsoft as a "technical error". As a result, in March 2013 the European Commission fined Microsoft €561 million to deter companies from reneging on settlement promises.

References

Further reading

External links
European Committee for Interoperable Systems (ECIS)  The Court of First Instance's judgment in case T-201/04 Microsoft v Commission & background documents. Retrieved 2007-09-21
Microsoft's implementation of the EU ruling
FSFE's case project page, FSFE have been third-party in the case since 2001
Groklaw interview Georg Greve (FSFE), Jeremy Allison and Volker Lendecke (Samba developers), and Carlo Piana (their lawyer), these people participated in the case

Timelines:
 By eubusiness.com
 By FSFE

European Union competition law
Private case law
Computing-related controversies and disputes
Court of Justice of the European Union case law
Microsoft criticisms and controversies
Microsoft litigation
European Union competition case law
2007 in European Union case law