[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# List of retronyms

st: Regions formerly at these extreme corners of the United States.

General descriptions
These are less official descriptions that are commonly used.
 Contiguous United States or Lower 48 : Referred to simply as The United States before Alaska and Hawaii, which are American exclaves, became states.

Historiographic retronyms
 Aztec Empire : Term coined by Alexander von Humboldt in the early 19th Century to differentiate between the pre-Hispanic "Mexican empire" and the then new post-Hispanic one (this, in turn, became known as the First Mexican Empire upon the French-backed enthronement of Maximilian I in 1864).
 Byzantine Empire : Term coined in 1557 to name the East Roman Empire, then defunct by over a century, in the historical period following the disintegration of the Western Roman Empire in 476 AD. The entity was commonly known as 'Roman Empire' to its inhabitants and 'Greek Empire' to contemporary Western Europeans.
 Gran Colombia : Historians' term for the first "Republic of Colombia", which included what are now Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, and Panama.
 Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth : Term coined in the 20th century, after the restoration of separate Poland and Lithuania as independent states.
 Weimar Republic : Used to refer to the German Reich during the period in which it was a liberal democracy, prior to being taken over by the Nazi Party.
 World War I/First World War : Originally this was called "The Great War" and commonly believed to be "the war to end all wars". However, when a second war enveloped Europe, Asia, and much of the Pacific, it became necessary to distinguish them. This convention has been used for many series of wars, going back as far as the First Peloponnesian War or earlier. Most recently, the 1991 war in the Persian Gulf, formerly called "Desert Storm" or just the "Gulf War", is now (since the 2003 invasion of Iraq) often referred to as "The First Gulf War".

Airports

When an airport consists of only one passenger facility, most people just call it "The airport" or "The terminal".  But when an airport expands, it is often necessary to give the original building a retronymic adjective to avoid confusion.  While some airports just rename older terminals or concourse with letters or numbers (e.g. Terminal 1 or Concourse B), other methods include:
 Cardinal directions – when Newark opened Terminals A and B in the early 1970s, the existing passenger terminal was renamed the "North Terminal".
 Proper names – Detroit Metro Airport only had one passenger terminal until 1966, at which point the existing facility was identified as the "L.C. Smith Terminal".