[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vassilios Skouris

006 and visits with the leadership of the southern portion of the island, where many refugees remain, months before the ruling.

Speeches and views
In a speech in 2004, President Skouris indicated he believed that the Court of Justice served as a supreme court instead of just a constitutional court.

In a speech in 2006 at the European Conference on Subsidiarity, he described the role of the subsidiarity principle with the court, linking it to Quadragesimo anno. He stated "what individuals can do on their own initiative and out of their own efforts, should not be taken away from them and allocated to the community, for it would be against justice for the larger entities to assume what the small entities can achieve and bring to a positive end... Subsidiarity protects small communities against being deprived of tasks by a central power to a greater extent as necessary.” He also discussed proportionality, which he says "protects individuals against a restriction to an unnecessary extent of their rights by a measure benefiting the community."

In 2007, he visited the Southern Methodist University's Dedman School of Law in Dallas, along with justices from the United States Supreme Court, and attended events at the Dallas Bar Association and the Dallas Committee on Foreign Relations, while delivering a speech on the role of the Court of Justice in the EU to the pro-business Greater Dallas Chamber of Commerce.

At the 50th anniversary celebration for the court in 2009, President Skouris spoke about the court's earlier years of abstaining from issues of individual fundamental rights within each country but, with the new Charter of Fundamental Rights, expressed a desire, in accordance with such, to improve the rights of citizens within member nations.

Honours and awards

He has Honorable distinctions by the Greek, Italian, Cypriot, Romanian, Austrian, and French governments. He has a Rank of Commander in National Order of the Legion of Honor of the French Republic. He is a Corresponding member of Ακαδημία Αθηνών (Academy of Athens). He is an honorary doctorate of: the Administrative College of Speyer (Germany), the University of Vilnius (Lithuania), the Democritus University of Thrace, the University of Münster (Germany),the University of Athens and the University of Bucarest, University Paris 2 Panthéon-Assas, the University of Masaryk (Brno), Panteion University (Athens) and Heidelberg University.

See also

List of members of the European Court of Justice

References

|-

|-

1948 births
20th-century Greek lawyers
Living people
Ministers of the Interior of Greece
Presidents of the European Court of Justice
Grand Crosses of the Order of the Star of Romania
Greek judges of international courts and tribunals
21st-century Greek judges
Politicians from Thessaloniki