[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tam Nsaliwa

f the 2009–10 winter transfer period, which was to last until June 2010.

Before leaving, there was speculation in Greek news that the president of AEK tried to stop the loan transfer and have Nsaliwa stay, but it was later made clear that there was no relationship left between the player and coach.

AEK would go on to write on its website "AEk FC would like to thank Tamandani Nsaliwa for his services to the club and wish him the best of luck in his future career."

Spain
After a rather mediocre loan spell in Norway, Nsaliwa was said to have signed for Spanish side Real Betis.

With the public backing of current Vice President of RCD Mallorca, former Betis coach and a former coach of Nsaliwa at AEK, Lorenzo Serra Ferrer. Although it is not well known what happened in the time Nsaliwa was in Seville to finish the agreement, according to the official website of Real Betis, it was stated that "Nsaliwa will not play in the club because there was no economic agreement between both parties."  After this, the player decided to sue the club for the amount he claimed was the agreed contractual sum of €900,000.

After six months of being without a club, in January 2011 he went on to sign for SD Ponferradina in the Spanish Second Division.

Denmark
On 16 April 2012, it was announced that Nsaliwa had signed with Esbjerg fB of the Danish 1st Division until 30 June 2012.

International career
Nsaliwa played at the 2001 FIFA World Youth Championship in Argentina, alongside Julian De Guzman and Mike Klukowski among others.

He made his senior debut for Canada in an April 2001 LG Cup match against Egypt and earned a total of 13 caps, scoring no goals. He has not yet represented Canada in FIFA World Cup qualification matches but did play a game at the 2001 Confederations Cup and three at the 2002 CONCACAF Gold Cup.

His last full international game for Canada was played against the Brazil at Qwest Field in Seattle on 31 May 2008.

Once he renounced his Canadian citizenship in 2007, he became ineligible to play for Canada, and in fact no longer eligible to play international soccer, as he had been cap-tied by Canada.

Personal life
After he represented the Canada national team at full international level, Nsaliwa renounced his Canadian citizenship to become a citizen of Germany in 2007 to avoid local rules limiting the number of non-EU internationals permitted in a team.

On 14 June 2020, he released the song "Sklira", in honor of the new stadium of his former club AEK Athens. The song got over 90,000 views on YouTube within three days.

He is a budding artist with songs aside from "Sklira" including "Tsili Kafeneio".

Honours
Canada U20
 Concacaf runner-up: 2000

1. FC Nürnberg
2. Bundesliga: 2000–01

AEK Athens
 Superleague Greece runner-up: 2007–08
 Greek Cup: runner-up: 2008–09

References

External links
  (archive)
 
 
 

1982 births
Living people
Canadian people of Malawian descent
Naturalized citizens of Canada
Naturalized citizens of Germany
Canadian men's soccer players
Black Canadian men's soccer players
Soccer players from Edmonton
Men's association football defenders
Men's association football midfielders
Canada men's international soccer players
Canada men's youth international soccer players
2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players
2002 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
2. Bundesliga players
Eliteserien players
Super League Greece players
Danish 1st Division players
TFF First League players
1. FC Nürnberg players
1. FC Saarbrücken players
SSV Jahn Regensburg players
Panionios F.C. players
AEK Athens F.C. players
Lillestrøm SK players
SD Ponferradina players
Esbjerg fB players
Kavala F.C. players
Bucaspor footballers
Canadian expatriate men's soccer players
Canadian expatriate sportspeople in Germany
Expatriate men's footballers in Germany
Canadian expatriate sportspeople in Greece
Expatriate men's footballers in Greece
Canadian expatriate sportspeople in Norway
Expatriate men's footballers in Norway
Canadian expatriate sportspeople in Spain
Expatriate men's footballers in Spain
Canadian expatriate sportspeople in Denmark
Expatriate men's footballers in Denmark
Canadian expatriate sportspeople in Turkey
Expatriate men's footballers in Turkey