[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Government House, Sydney

mple of an Arts and Crafts inspired style of domestic architecture and a forerunner of the Australian Federation style of the early 20th century.

The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

The house was seen as a pinnacle of society and the roll of Governor as social "exemplar", ideas that continued well into the 20th century. The place can demonstrate the changing emphasis in the selection of Governor; from military, to career administrators, to aristocrats. By the end of the 19th century the role was perceived to be more social than political, and post-war Australian Governors were installed into this esteemed position. At each stage in its history, Government House was a place of work for personnel involved in the business of the Governor, in domestic service, in securing the site, or in the keeping of the grounds, most being resident on the site. The role of domestic servants, and later domestic staff, continued until the mid 1990s, well after such service had become anachronistic in most other great houses in Australia.

The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

Government House demonstrates at a high level the design, layout, construction techniques and finishes of a colonial grand house in the Gothic style as well as that of an early colonial harbour-side estate charged with the carriage of viceregal functions including symbolic functions of authority in polity and society. The ensemble of House, outbuildings and gardens can demonstrate the development of the site and its functions from the colonial period to today. The Government house interiors as they have evolved from the 1840s reflect the development of taste and style over 170 years. The Government House garden has the archaeological potential to provide information on early roads and drives and terrace arrangements. The important interiors (such as the Lyon and Cottier wall Drawing Room ceilings and hand painted cloth panels) and the extensive moveable heritage collection (including the collection of Colonial Australian furniture, portraits of Governors, and some of the more recent furnishings and fittings) demonstrate 150 years of changing style and taste.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

It is a rare surviving example where the original and early planning remains relatively intact and demonstrates the prevailing social order and domestic arrangements of the "place".

Gallery

See also

 First Government House, Sydney, residence of the Governor from 1788 to 1845
 Old Government House, Parramatta, the country retreat for the early Governors
 Government Houses of Australia
 Government Houses in the Commonwealth
Government House Sydney 360° Virtual Tour

References

Bibliography

Attribution

External links

Government House Sydney 360° Virtual Tour
Government House section of Governor's Website
Official Government House website (Historic Houses Trust)
Old Government House Website
Old Government House (NSW National Trust)
School excursion information – Old Government House
Australian National Heritage listing for Old Government House and Government Domain
Pictures of Old Government House, Parramatta
 [CC-By-SA]

Houses completed in 1845
Houses in Sydney
Museums in Sydney
Government buildings in Sydney
Gothic Revival architecture in Sydney
Historic Houses Trust of New South Wales
Government of New South Wales
Victorian architecture in Sydney
Historic house museums in New South Wales
Official residences in Australia
1845 establishments in Australia
Sydney
Edward Blore buildings
New South Wales State Heritage Register
Sandstone buildings in Australia
Governors' mansions
Event venues in New South Wales
Articles incorporating text from the New South Wales State Heritage Register
Bridge Street, Sydney