[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Biddle

logist from Dallas, Texas, to whom he was married from 1925 to 1929
Hélène Sardeau (July 7, 1899 Antwerp (Belgium) – 1969) a sculptor, to whom he was married from 1930 until her death. 
Michael John Biddle (b. November 15, 1934).
George Biddle died on November 6, 1973, in Croton-on-Hudson, New York.

Style and influences
Some factors that contributed to Biddle's artwork are the many art movements that he was involved in.  Biddle was involved in "French Impressionism; the American Ashcan School; the School of Paris and Cubism during those early and exciting days when it first exploded on the world; Regionalism, the Mexican Mural Movement, and the New Deal Subsidy of Art". He also was involved in the "post war currents of contemporary art". Many of his works of art were contemporary.  Another factor that contributed to Biddle's artwork were his friendships with many great "painters, sculptors, and critics of the past generation and his life-long activity in behalf of fellow artists".  He borrowed many of the other artists' styles and turned them into his own by using different techniques and images to get a different effect.  Biddle believed that everyone's life should be influenced by every "fact with which one comes in contact, until one ceases to grow or is, actually dead".  This is the reason why Biddle became such a successful American artist; he had his own style, and expressed real actual events.

A further influence on Biddle was Mary Cassatt. Biddle met Cassatt at the Académie Julian in Paris; she too was from Philadelphia. Cassatt helped to cultivate in Biddle an appreciation of the work of Degas. Some of Biddle's prints reflected "the style of these two artists in their intimate, domestic subject matter".

Biddle put in his "personal feelings—affection, humor, compassion, irony, social outrage—as well as his technical mastery of the lithographic medium" to "enliven his work".

George Biddle achieved a lot of goals that helped other artists make their way.  His work serves as a "kind of index to the many style and themes which occupied artists in the first half of the 20th century". When Biddle volunteered to go to the war, it changed his whole life and how he saw the world. He got to travel the country and study the art of different cultures thus enriching the art that he would produce.  Biddle captured scenes and people how they naturally occurred in life. "Catfish Row" is a good example of Biddle capturing people and objects in their natural state. "Rejecting the stale formulas of academism and critical of what he saw as a loss of articulate emotional expressionism in much of modernist art, Biddle grappled with his own artistic identity throughout his life".

The artist Margaretta S. Hinchman bequeathed a self-portrait by George Biddle to the Philadelphia Museum of Art upon her death in 1955.

Selected works
 Illustrations for Porgy and Bess libretto (1930). Commissioned by George and Ira Gershwin.
 Portrait of Helene Sardeau, the Artist's Wife (1931), Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
 Self-Portrait (1933), Philadelphia Museum of Art.
 Murals for Robert F. Kennedy Department of Justice Building (1936), Washington, D.C.
 Murals for Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation (1940), Mexico City, Mexico.
 Portrait of Man Ray (1941), Philadelphia Museum of Art.
 Portrait of Frieda Lawrence (1941), Philadelphia Museum of Art.
 Murals for National Library of Brazil (1942), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Books by Biddle 
 Green Island. Coward-McCann, New York 1930.
 Adolphe Borie. American Federation of Arts, Washington, D.C. 1937.
 An American Artist's Story. Littlem, Brown & Co., Boston 1939. (memoir)
 Artist at War. The Viking Press, New York 1944.
 George Biddle's War Drawings. The Hyperion Press, distributed by Duell, Sloan and Pearce, 1944
 The Yes and No of Contemporary Art. An Artist's Evolution. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Mass. 1957.
 Indian Impressions. The Orion Press, New York 1960.
 Tahitian Journal. University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis 1968.

See also
Biddle family
United States Commission of Fine Arts

References

External links

 List of Biddle's Artworks in Museum Collections, World Wide Arts Resources.
Columbus Museum of Art Web page on Biddle's 1933 lithograph, Alabama Code (click on picture for larger image)
Archives of American Art
George Biddle letters to Constance Biddle, 1943-1945
George Biddle papers, 1910-1969
Oral history interview with George Biddle, 1963
"The Long Voyage Home" Artist Portraits and Paintings at The Ned Scott Archive