[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Charles A. Boutelle

Charles Addison Boutelle (February 9, 1839 – May 21, 1901) was an American seaman, shipmaster, naval officer, Civil War veteran, newspaper editor, publisher, conservative Republican politician, and nine-term Representative to the U.S. Congress from the 4th Congressional District of Maine.  He remains the second longest-serving U.S. Representative from Maine, the first being his colleague Thomas Brackett Reed.

Early life
Boutelle was born to Charles and Lucy A. (Curtis) Boutelle in Damariscotta, Lincoln County, Maine.  In 1848 his family moved from Damariscotta to Brunswick, Maine.  He attended the public schools of Brunswick and later attended the Yarmouth Academy in 1850 and 1851.

Naval career
His father was a shipmaster, and Charles himself went to sea at the age of fifteen.  He spent the next eleven years as a sailor, becoming a shipmaster in his own right in 1860. Returning from a two-year voyage in 1862 to find the country at war, he volunteered his services to the Union Navy and was commissioned an Acting Master on April 5, 1862.

He saw service on the , a double-ended, sidewheel, steam gunboat assigned to the South Atlantic Blockading Squadron. During this assignment, the shallow-draft vessel was engaged in intelligence-gathering, patrolling the river outlets, and guarding against Confederate river traffic attempting to run the blockade of the Georgia coastline.

His next assignment was aboard , another double-ended, steam gunboat engaged in the blockades of Charleston and Wilmington. On May 5, 1864, while assigned to that vessel, his ship, along with other Union vessels, saw action against the Confederate ironclad . During that engagement, Sassacus rammed the Albemarle as it attempted to escape. Sassacus took a direct hit to the starboard boiler and sustained significant damage when the boiler exploded. It was during that battle that Boutelle was cited “for gallant conduct,” resulting in his promotion to the rank of Volunteer Lieutenant, the highest rank granted volunteer officers not of the regular navy.

Lieutenant Boutelle was subsequently given command of the , another of the shallow-draft and lightly armored steam vessels known as 'tinclads'. During his command, Nyanza participated, under Admiral David Farragut, in the Battle of Mobile Bay, on August 5, 1864, where Lieutenant Boutelle was credited with receiving the surrender of the Confederate fleet. Following the victory at Mobile, Boutelle was placed in command of Union naval forces in the Mississippi Sound.

Lieutenant Boutelle continued in naval service until the conclusion of the war when he voluntarily separated from service. He was granted an honorable discharge on January 14, 1866.

Soon after his departure from naval service, he married Elizabeth ("Lizzie") Hodsdon, daughter of attorney and Maine Adjutant General, John L. Hodsdon, on May 16, 1866, in Augusta, the bride's home town.  Together they had three daughters, Grace Hodsdon Boutelle, Elizabeth Boutelle, and Anne ("Annie") Curtis Boutelle. In 1890 Anne Boutelle sponsored the protected cruiser , the US Navy's first modern cruiser.

Newspaper editor and publisher
Following the war, Boutelle became the master of a steamer running between New York and Wilmington.  He was associated briefly with a New York commission house, but, in 1870, he was recommended for the position of Editor-in-Chief of the Bangor Daily Whig and Courier, a Republican newspaper.  He took that position and moved his young family to Bangor in their home state of Maine, where they lived for the rest of his life.

Boutelle was a dynamic editor, and, under his leadership, the paper became one of the most influential in the northeastern United States.  Upon the death of the owner, J. H. Lynde, Boutelle, along with a partner, B. A. Burr, purchased the Daily Whig and Courier on May 15, 1874.  He continued active editorial control until failing health and growing competition finally forced him to sell the paper in March, 1900.

Political career
Boutelle's robustly-conservative Republican editorial positions drew him further into both state and national politics.  He was selected as a district delegate to the Republican National Convention at Cincinnati in 1876, and served as the president of the Maine (James G.) Blaine Club at the national convention of 1880. Gaining further prominence in the state Republican party, he was selected as the representative from Maine on the Republican National Committee at the national convention of 1884 that nominated James G. Blaine.  He was both a delegate-at-large and chairman of the Maine delegation at the Republican national convention of 1888, during which he read to the convention the cablegram from Blaine refusing to be nominated.  He was a member of the Maine Republican State Committee from 1875 to 1882.