[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# New Town, Kolkata

mber, 2008. It is a transitional arrangement in the way of creation of an Urban Local Body (ULB). The administration is headed by a chairman, exercising authority over a member secretary and chief executive officer, who in turn oversee various specific committees, set up to implement various duties.

Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (HIDCO) plans and executes development projects in New Town, Kolkata.

Utility services
As of 2015, New Town gets 200 litre per capita per day (lcpd)  of treated water every day with potable water that is sourced from the Hooghly River. Water treatment plants with computerised monitoring and control system are in place. 100% of the garbage is collected by sanitary workers through door to door collection. As of 2015, more than 70% of the solid waste management vehicles and street sweeping vehicles have been fitted with GPS devices for effective monitoring. All the garbage is compacted at compacting stations before disposing of it in dumping grounds.

Electricity is supplied and managed by New Town Electric Supply Company Limited (NTESCL). Fire services are handled by the West Bengal Fire Service, a state agency. The Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate looks after the law and order in the city.

State-owned Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), as well as private enterprises, among them Vodafone, Bharti Airtel, Idea Cellular, Reliance Jio, Tata DoCoMo are the leading telephone and cell phone service providers in the city. Kolkata being the first city in India to have cell phone and 4G connectivity, the GSM and CDMA cellular coverage is extensive in New Town.

Transport

Rapid transit
Kolkata Metro Orange Line: As of November 2023, the New Garia–Dumdum/Kolkata Airport Line (Line 6) of the Kolkata Metro, which passes through New Town, is under-construction and expected to be open before 2026. The metro will be main linkage between Action Area I and II of New Town township.
A Light Rail Transit System (LRTS) is planned to connect Action Area III to the Biswa Bangla Gate. The estimated cost of the project is around ₹4500 Crores.

Roads

Biswa Bangla Sarani connects Action Area I and II. It also connects New Town to the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport. The New Town Road and Gitanjali Road also serves as major connectors between Action Area III and Action Area II. The main mode of road transportation includes air conditioned or non-AC government and private buses, taxi and other popular Indian transports like auto rickshaw and e-rickshaws. As of 2015, around 300 buses on 25 different bus routes, either passes through or originates from New Town.

Education

Colleges and universities
Some of the educational and training institutes that are setting up their campuses in New Town:
University of Engineering & Management (UEM), Kolkata
 Amity University Kolkata
 Presidency University
 St. Xaviers University
 IIT Kharagpur Research Park
 Aliah University
 Institute of Cost Accountants of India
 Indian Institute of Social Welfare and Business Management
 Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
 Ramakrishna Mission Centre of Excellence
 Belle Vue Nursing College
 West Bengal Power Development Corporation (WBPDCL) Training Institute
 Techno India
West Bengal Judicial Academy

Schools
For the children, to study up to the 12th standard, New Town also houses many schools:
 Delhi Public School
 Narayana School
The Newtown School
 Bodhicariya Senior Secondary School
 Sri Chaitanya techno school

Sports

AIFF National Center of Excellence is a "state of art" football complex which includes India’s first ever roof top pitch. The sports complex is spread across 15 Acres and built with an investment of ₹200 crores.

Cricket Association of Bengal is building an international cricket stadium in New Town. In 2022, CAB bought a 14 Acres plot with ₹30 Crore.

See also
 Satellite city
 Biswa Bangla Gate
 Eco Park

References

External links

 
 New Town, Kolkata – Development Authority West Bengal

 
Neighbourhoods in Kolkata
Planned cities in West Bengal
New towns started in the 1990s
Cities and towns in North 24 Parganas district
Planned communities in India
Neighbourhoods in North 24 Parganas district
Kolkata Metropolitan Area