[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Universal Primary Education

national schools and their respective communities, while helping provide sustainable and adequate nutrition for their partnered beneficiaries. TWSB currently work across North America, Uganda, South Africa, Greece, and India.  To find out more about their work, visit: http://thewalkingschoolbus.com/

Building Tomorrow
This Indianapolis, IN based social-profit empowers young people to support their peers in sub-Saharan Africa by raising funds and awareness for school infrastructure projects. They have built seven primary schools in Uganda since their inception in 2005 and are working to support the UN Millennium Development Goal of Universal Primary Education.

Education in Cambodia
Since the Khmer Rouge eliminated a large percentage of educated Cambodians, Cambodia has been lacking educated resources leading to a lower educational level.

In the United States

Teach for America
The mission of Teach for America is to address the inadequacies in the United States education system by placing highly qualified college graduates into under resourced schools for a two-year period in an attempt transform these leaders into lifelong advocates of education reform in the United States.

Our Education
This is a campaign to empower young people in the United States to stand up and speak out against the inadequacies in the United States education system and to demand change through political activism.

Breakthrough Collaborative
This organization empowers high potential middle school students from lower income communities to excel in school and at the same time inspires motivated high school and college students to pursue careers in education. It is a six-week summer enrichment program where "students teach students" run in more than 30 sites all over the United States.

The learning crisis 
The learning crisis is the reality that while the universal primary education access is a major global goal, a large proportion of children in school are not learning. A World Bank study found that "53 percent of children in low- and middle-income countries cannot read and understand a simple story by the end of primary school." While schooling has increased rapidly over the last few decades, learning has not followed suit.

See also
Education
Education For All
Human Rights
Millennium Development Goals
Right to Education
Learning crisis

References

Further reading

Douglas A. Sylva. The United Nations Children's Fund: Women or Children First? Diss. Catholic Family and Human Rights Institute, 2003. New York, New York, 2003.

Dowd, Amy Jo; Greer, Heather. Girls' Education: Community Approaches to Access and Quality. Strong Beginnings. Westport: Save the Children Federation, Inc., 2001.
FAO Rural Youth Development. Education for Rural People. 2002. 

Higher learning = Higher Earning: What You Need to Know About College and Careers. Center on Education Policy and American Youth Policy Forum. Washington, DC. September 2001.  Nov. 26, 2006.
Kawada, Eijiro. Eatonville Schools to Try Busing. The News Tribune.  Tacoma, WA. May 30, 2005.  Nov. 27, 2006. 
Lawrence, Barbara K. Save a Penny, Lose a School: The Real Cost of Deferred Maintenance. Diss. Rural School and Community Trust, 2003.
Malone, Susan. 2006.  "Bridging languages in education".  id21 insights.  Available online at 
 Mehrotra, S. (1998): Education for All: Policy Lessons From High-Achieving Countries:
UNICEF Staff Working Papers, New York, UNICEF.
Minneapolis Public Schools. Attendance Matters! 14 Oct. 2005 

New Ulm Sr. High School Report Card 2005.	

UNESCO. 2003. Education in a multilingual world.  Available online here.
UNESCO. 2005. First Language First: community based literacy programmes for minority language contexts in Asia.  Available online here.
Walter, Steven.  2000. Explaining Multilingual Education:. Information on Some Tough Questions, University of North Dakota Working Papers in Linguistics.  Available online here.

External links
"Educate a Woman, You Educate a Nation" - South Africa Aims to Improve its Education for Girls, WNN — Women News Network. Aug. 28, 2007. Lys Anzia
Right to Education Project
(PDF)UN Millennium Project

CRIN
and health
HIV UNESCO
World Bank
FAO
Gain Health
Universal Primary Education Goal Tracker
Time for School An ongoing PBS documentary series that follows 7 children from 7 countries who are struggling to achieve a basic education. The series continues through 2015, the U.N.'s target date for achieving universal education (MDG #2).
Fast Track Initiative - Education for All

Primary education
Millennium Development Goals