[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Constructive set theory

at is then established, one finds that either both  as well as the sets equality holds, or that the return values are different and  can be rejected. The conclusion is that the choice postulate actually implies  whenever a Separation axiom allows for set comprehension using undecidable proposition .

Analysis of Diaconescu's theorem
So full choice is non-constructive in set theory as defined here. The issue is that when propositions are part of set comprehension (like when  is used to separate, and thereby define, the classes  and  from ), the notion of their truth values are ramified into set terms of the theory. Equality defined by the set theoretical axiom of extensionality, which itself is not related to functions, in turn couples knowledge about the proposition to information about function values. To recapitulate the final step in terms function values: On the one hand, witnessing  implies  and  and this conclusion independently also applies to witnessing . On the other hand, witnessing  implies the two function arguments are not equal and this rules out . There are really only three combinations, as the axiom of extensionality in the given setup makes  inconsistent. So if the constructive reading of existence is to be preserved, full choice may be not adopted in the set theory, because the mere claim of function existence does not realize a particular function.

To better understand why one cannot expect to be granted a definitive (total) choice function with domain , consider naive function candidates. Firstly, an analysis of the domain is in order. The surjection  witnesses that  is finitely indexed. It was noted that its members are subfinite and also inhabited, since regardless of  it is the case that  and . So naively, this would seem to make  a contender for a choice function. When  can be rejected, then this is indeed the only option. But in the case of provability of , when , there is extensionally only one possible function input to a choice function. So in that situation, a choice function would explicitly have type , for example  and this would rule out the initial contender. For general , the domain of a would-be choice function is not concrete but contingent on  and not proven finite. When considering the above functional assignment , then neither unconditionally declaring  nor  is necessarily consistent. Having identified  with , the two candidates described above can be represented simultaneously via  (which is not proven finite either) with the subfinite "truth value of " given as . As , postulating , or , or the classical principle  here would indeed imply that  is a natural, so that the latter set  constitutes a choice function into . And as in the constructive case, given a particular choice function - a set holding either exactly one or exactly two pairs - one could actually infer whether  or whether  does hold. Vice versa, the third and last candidate  can be captured as part of , where . Such a  had already been considered in the early section on the axiom of separation. Again, the latter  here is a classical choice function either way also, where  functions as a (potentially undecidable) "if-clause". Constructively, the domain and values of such -dependent would-be functions are not understood enough to prove them to be a total functional relation into .

For computable semantics, set theory axioms postulating (total) function existence lead to the requirement for halting recursive functions. From their function graph in individual interpretations, one can infer the branches taken by the "if-clauses" that were undecided in the interpreted theory. 
But on the level of the synthetic frameworks, when they broadly become classical from adopting full choice, these extensional set theories theories contradict the constructive Church's rule.

Regularity implies PEM
The axiom of regularity states that for every inhabited set , there exists an element  in , which shares no elements with . As opposed to the axiom of choice, this existence claim reaches for an element of every inhabited set, i.e. the "domain" are all inhabited sets. Its formulation does not involve a unique existence claim but instead guarantees a set with a specific property.
As the axiom correlates membership claims at different rank, the axiom also ends up implying :

The proof from choice above had used a particular set . The proof in this paragraph also assumes Separation applies to  and uses , for which  by definition. It was already explained that  and so one wants to prove excluded middle for the latter. This  is defined using the clause , so that any given  fulfills the disjunction . Now let  be the postulated member with the empty intersection property. If , then , while otherwise . This establishes excluded middle for .