[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of warlords and military cliques in the Warlord Era

overning the country from Nanjing.

Run as a Dang Guo (黨國), or Party-State, along the lines of the organisational principles of Leninism, the party's ideology was based on Socialism and Nationalism. Initially Soviet-backed, after the Shanghai massacre it allied with Germany.

Chinese Communist Party

The Chinese Communist Party, formed in 1921 in the aftermath of the May Fourth Movement. Its military arm eventually became the People's Liberation Army.

The party was allied with the Kuomintang during the first phase of the Northern Expedition, but the two sides split following the Shanghai massacre in 1927. The two parties would then fight a decades long civil war, which ended with the Kuomintang retreat to Taiwan and the founding of the People's Republic of China on the mainland.

Yunnan clique

The Yunnan Military Government was established on October 30, 1911, with Cai E elected as the military governor. This marked the beginning of the "Yunnan clique".

Guizhou warlords

Guizhou Province was dominated by a series of successive autonomous warlords.

Old Guangxi clique

Guangxi province announced its independence on November 6, 1911. Originally, the revolutionaries supported the Qing Governor to remain in position. However, he later left the province, and Lu Rongting succeeded his position.

New Guangxi clique

After the Guangdong–Guangxi War, the Old Guangxi clique was no longer effective, and was replaced by the New Guangxi clique. Supported the Kuomintang's Northern Expedition but rebelled during the Central Plains War.

Guangdong warlords
Guangdong was independent on November 8. The Guangdong Army was in the early 1920s mostly dominated by Chen Jiongming. In the 1930s, Chen Jitang was chairman of the government.

Sichuan clique

During the period from 1927 to 1938, Sichuan was in the hands of multiple warlords. No warlord had enough power to take on all the others at once, so many small battles occurred, pitting one warlord against another.

Hunan warlords
Hunan Province was ruled by successive autonomous warlords.

References

External links
 Rulers: Chinese Administrative divisions

 
 
 
China history-related lists
1910s in China
1920s in China
Military history of the Republic of China (1912–1949)