[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Urby Emanuelson

ted in the left–back position with Ajax and helped the side win 2–1. As a result, his efforts resulted in him being named "Amsterdam talent of the year 2006" alongside Thomas Vermaelen. At the end of the 2005–06 season, Emanuelson made forty–one appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.

At the start of the 2006–07 season, Emanuelson played the whole game, as Ajax beat PSV Eindhoven 3–1 to win the Johan Cruyff Shield. He quickly regained his first team place, rotating in the left–back position and midfield positions. However, Emanuelson played in both legs of the third round of the UEFA Champions League against Copenhagen, as the club were eliminated following a 4–1 defeat on aggregate. On 14 October 2006 he scored his first goal for Ajax, in a 3–2 win against FC Groningen. This was followed up by helping the club keeping three out of the four consecutive clean sheets, in which Emanuelson played in the left–back position. In a match against Sparta Prague, Emanuelson was sent–off for a second bookable offence, as they drew 0–0. Despite this, he then scored his second goal of the season, in a 6–0 win against Willem II on 3 December 2006. By the end of the year, Emanuelson was nominated for the Golden Boy, but won the 2006's Amsterdam Talent award. He continued to start in the first team until a knee injury sustained during a 4–1 win against Feyenoord on 4 February 2007 saw him sidelined for a month. On 4 March 2007 Emanuelson made a return to the starting line–up, in a 1–0 loss against SC Heerenveen. This was followed up by setting up two goals, in a 4–1 win against FC Twente. In the last game of the season against Willem II, Emanuelson scored his third goal of the season, in a 2–0 win. Once again, he played four times in the newly born Eredivisie play-offs after finishing in the second position in the regular competition. In the play-offs, they defeated Heerenveen and AZ Alkmaar to claim a spot in the Champions League preliminaries for the following season. Emanuelson was featured in the KNVB Cup Final against AZ, playing 120 minutes and finishing 1–1 as Ajax went on to lose 8–7 as a result and win the tournament for the second time in a row. At the end of the 2006–07 season, he went on to make forty–six appearances and scoring three times in all competitions.

At the start of the 2007–08 season, Emanuelson played the whole game, as Ajax beat PSV Eindhoven 1–0 to win the Johan Cruyff Shield with the former won for the third consecutive year. However, he played in four European matches that saw the club eliminated by Slavia Prague and Dinamo Zagreb in the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Cup. Despite this, Emanuelson continued to regain his first team place, playing in the left–back position, though he stated in an interview of his disappointment over lack of cover in the left–back position. This lasted until Emanuelson suffered a knee injury that kept him out for two weeks. On 11 November 2007 he returned to the starting line–up, playing in the centre–midfield position, in a 2–2 draw against Feyenoord. Following his return from injury, Emanuelson continued to regain his first team place, playing in the left–back position. In a match against FC Utrecht on 23 January 2008, he suffered a knee injury that saw him substituted in the 74th minute. Although Manager Adrie Koster confirmed that Emanuelson suffered a bruise of a knee injury, his injury turned out to be not too bad as first thought. In a follow–up match against Vitesse, he scored his first goal of the season, in a 2–2 draw. By February, Emanuelson began primarily played as a left midfielder because of his weak defending abilities and Jan Vertonghen took over the position. The player, himself, publicity said he does not want to return to the left–back position. Emanuelson then scored two goals in two matches between 24 February 2008 and 2 March 2008 against NAC Breda and SBV Excelsior. However, he eventually played in the left–back position against SC Heerenveen in play–offs for the UEFA Champions League spot, as Ajax won 5–2 on aggregate. In a follow–up match against Twente, Emanuelson suffered ankle injury that saw him substituted in the 66th minute, as the club lost 2–1. As a result, Ajax lost their chance to qualify for the UEFA Champions League following a 0–0 draw in the return leg. At the end of the 2007–08 season, he went on to make forty–one appearances and scoring three times in all competitions.