[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Edward S. Bragg

orld."

Lee evacuated South Mountain that evening, but McClellan caught up to him again at Antietam Creek, near Sharpsburg, Maryland, on September 16, 1862.  That night, the Iron Brigade, along with the rest of I Corps, crossed the Antietam Creek and took position on the far right of the Union line.

At dawn, the Battle of Antietam began with I Corps advancing under artillery fire.  Bragg led the 6th Wisconsin at the far right end of the Union advance, where they came under attack from the woods on their right flank.  Bragg, despite having been shot in the initial barrage, ordered the men to reshape and return fire into the woods.  Bragg collapsed and was carried to the rear.  He was able to return to the regiment around noon, but was not yet fit to return to duty.

In the aftermath of the battle, one of the sergeants mistakenly wrote to Bragg's wife informing her that he had been killed.  The story spread in Wisconsin and resulted in his obituary appearing in several papers.

Before Antietam, Bragg received solicitations from Wisconsin to run for Congress as a War Democrat on the National Union Party ticket.  Bragg had replied, "I shall not decline a nomination on the platform, the Government must be sustained, but my services can not be taken from the field.  I command the regiment, and can not leave in times like these."  Nevertheless, after the battle, he received word that he had been nominated by the National Union Party district convention.  He ultimately lost the election to anti-war Democrat Charles A. Eldredge.

Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville (Winter 1862Spring 1863)
In the Winter of 1862–63, there were two more Union offensives attempted against Fredericksburg, Virginia.  Bragg led the regiment through the Battle of Fredericksburg and the aborted Mud March, but they were not engaged in serious fighting in either campaign.  The Iron Brigade spent most of the rest of the winter camped at Belle Plains, Virginia, where they were reorganized and resupplied.  During this time, Bragg received his official promotion to colonel, effective March 10, 1863, and was one of several officers invited to meet with President Abraham Lincoln.

The campaigning resumed in April 1863 under General Joseph Hooker, now in overall command of the Army of the Potomac.  In the Battle of Chancellorsville, the Iron Brigade was charged with securing the creation of a pontoon bridge at Fitz Hughes Crossing on the Rappahannock, southeast of Fredericksburg.  After the bridge engineers came under attack from the far side of the river, Colonel Bragg was tasked with forcing a crossing and securing the far bank of the river.  Within an hour, Bragg had secured the beachhead and taken nearly 200 of Confederate prisoners.  

Bragg and the 6th Wisconsin received special compliments from their division commander, General James S. Wadsworth, for the daring raid.  After crossing, they were joined by VI Corps and the rest of I Corps, forming the left wing of Hooker's attack.  However, after remaining in position for two days under enemy shelling, on May 2, I Corps and the Iron Brigade were recalled to cross back to the north side of the river and move west to reinforce Hooker at Chancellorsville.  Ultimately, Hooker was forced to withdraw and the Iron Brigade and its Division again acted as rearguard for the Union retreat.

Colonel Bragg became seriously ill after Chancellorsville, possibly due to the poor weather conditions during the battle, combined with a wound he received from being kicked by Major John Hauser's horse.  He remained in his tent attempting to recuperate, but, in early June, was sent to a hospital in Washington, D.C.  While sick, Bragg missed the entire Gettysburg campaign, leaving the regiment under the command of Lt. Colonel Rufus Dawes, who performed heroic duty leading the regiment on the first day of the Battle of Gettysburg.  Colonel Bragg briefly attempted to return to the regiment in the days after the Battle of Gettysburg but was still too ill to participate, and had to return again to medical care.

Bristoe, Mine Run, and Reorganization (Fall 1863Spring 1864)
Colonel Bragg returned to the 6th Wisconsin about August 28, 1863, finding them camped near Rappahannock Station.  In the Bristoe campaign and the Battle of Mine Run, the Iron Brigade engaged in a series of rapid maneuvers, but did not engage in serious fighting.

In January 1864, the 6th Wisconsin officially achieved Veteran status and those who re-enlisted were given a furlough to return to Wisconsin.  Bragg and the re-enlisted veterans traveled by train and were celebrated at a ceremony in Milwaukee, hosted by former Governor Edward Salomon, Milwaukee Mayor Edward O'Neill, and Bragg's former 2nd Wisconsin Regiment counterpart, General Lucius Fairchild—who had just been elected Wisconsin's Secretary of State.