[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Baku Slavic University

foreign countries to be involved in the practice of scientific research, professional education courses, this was the case in traditional educational institutions and teacher-student exchange.

Recently, a number of Baku Slavic University was an important republican scientific-practical conferences.

2002–2003 BSU in the Ministry of Education and the Russian Federation Embassy of the republican scientific-practical conference with the actual problems of teaching Russian language and literature in secondary schools have been removed from the agenda, the ways to solve these problems are investigated and the resolution was adopted.

Educational-Cultural Center of the University of Ukraine, Russia, Educational and Cultural Center ("the Moscow audience"), Turkish Studies Center, Center for Modern Greek language and mədniyyəti, Bulgarian and Polish language and culture center of the active center and mədniyyəti function.

The university is a member of the Caucasus University Association.

Library 
The library has been established at the university since its foundation, 1946. Most changes at university affected the structure of the library as well as its operation. The President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Ilham Aliyev signed a decree for the restoration of Baku Slavic University in 2008. The major part of the funding was spent on the removal of library to the new area.

Student life 
BSU has been repaired at a higher level assembly hall, conference hall, library and sports hall used by the students. Students from various amateur associations, scientific organizations, SHK-or, were involved in the sports sections. Athletes, students, especially volleyball, handball and basketball teams are among the winners of the Spartakiadası and Universiadasının. Ozunuidarəsinin model student groups have been created.

Students are involved in university management, are interested in the proposals. In this regard, at the initiative of the rector of the "One-day caliph" particularly important and memorable event. On 13 December every year since 2002 the rector, prorektorlar, deans and department responsibilities mudirlərinin magistrantlar of students and university life, and thus canlandırmıslar new ideas. Student self-government as a result of the day, students and students with the proposal of the Parliament of magistrantların more actively involved in the creation and university students it was decided to self-government bodies.

Translation and Information centers of the university take an active part in the work of the Student Scientific Society and raise money for charity projects.

Sport in Baku Slavic University 
The students of the Baku Slavic University are engaged in the sport sections on football, basketball, volleyball, handball, tennis, badminton, field athletics, chess and others. They actively participate in the Republic and the International competitions demonstrating excellent results. The students of the university have been honoured with cups, trophies and medals in recognition of their sport skills.

BSU students’ teams on football, basketball and volleyball took active part and have won cups and medals in Commonwealth Games among the pedagogical Universities of the CIS countries held in Moscow, Kyiv and Minsk.

Museum 
The university museum was established in 2000. The museum is equipped with modern technical facilities. Besides, the handworks of students such as paintings, waving artworks and other works are presented in museum. There is also a board of martyrs who died for their homeland.

Notable alumni 

 Eldar Gasimov – Azerbaijani Singer, winner of Eurovision Song Contest 2011. Human of year in Azerbaijan (2011)
 Telman Jafarov – PhD, vice-rector on educational issues of Baku Slavic University
 Vali Khidirov – linguist, specialist on Caucasian studies
 Kheyrulla Aghayev- researcher, writer. Editor-in-Chief of "Oil Rocks" newspaper
 Amina Yusifgizi – actress, People's Artist of Azerbaijan (1998)

References

External links 

 Baku Slavic University

 
Universities and colleges established in 1946
1946 establishments in Azerbaijan