[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Zoltán Dani

turn back and attack, but this proved a mistake, as two missiles were already underway and one hit his plane. Dani was not actually in the combat shift (for a unit to provide 24h/day readiness the crew is divided in 3 shifts) when the shootdown occurred. The shift was commanded by Maj. Boško Dotlić.

The radio signal logs of unit 250/3 contain two further proximity fuse activation pings beyond the F-117 and F-16 shootdown events, indicating that either extra NATO aircraft were hit or ALE-50 towed jammer devices were destroyed by the missiles, as opposed to the SAMs simply missing due to radar jamming or chaff dispersal. The one recorded on the 30.4.1999. by the combat shift commanded by Major Boško Dotlić corresponds to a hit on a second F-117 which managed to return to its base in Spangdahlem, Germany, only to be written off. The other ping was recorded on 19. 5. 1999. by the combat shift commanded by Lt. Col.Đorđe Aničić (Dani's second in command). In his published wartime diary Aničić stated that the target had a large radar reflection and that the battery received unconfirmed reports that they hit a USAF B-2 strategic bomber which supposedly had crashed in Croatia near the border with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, although Dani was of the opinion that they hit a towed decoy instead.

In media
Ten years after the events, the Hungarian military aviation magazine Aranysas, volume 11/2009, carried an extensive article on Zoltán Dani's story, on the occasion of his visit at the Hungarian Air Defence Collection, an NGO-operated SAM museum at Zsámbék. Certain aspects of the F-117 shootdown story and general Yugoslav AAA activity during the Kosovo War were publicly disclosed for the first time in the article.

A documentary movie The 21st Second was made about Zoltán Dani. Dani also participated in the documentary movie The Second Meeting, where he met Dale Zelko, the F-117 pilot he had shot down.

Politics 
Dani was a Socialist Party of Serbia candidate in the 2022 general election, positioned 26th on the SPS ballot list.  He assumed his position as a Member of the National Assembly on August 1, 2022.

References

Sources

: found footage from the cockpit of the F117

1956 births
Living people
Officers of the Yugoslav People's Army
People from Kovin
Serbia and Montenegro military personnel
Serbian military personnel of the Kosovo War
Serbian people of Hungarian descent
Serbian people of Romanian descent
Serbian soldiers
Székely people