[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Education in the State of Palestine

s easy and fair (repayments of loans must be collected from all students), and 4) to provide a collection mechanism that will ensure sustainability (a revolving fund).

UNESCO states that because of "isolation, [the Universities] have suffered in particular from the absence of research departments."

"Inter-university co-operation programmes are underway, such as TOKTEN, PEACE and MEDCAMPUS. They are supported by partners such as the European Union, UNESCO and the UNDP. The PEACE programme (Palestinian-European Academic Co-operation in Education) involves 23 Palestinian Authority and European universities. It has been particularly noteworthy for having allowed students and teachers from the West Bank and Gaza to be admitted to European faculties at a time when the university establishments of Gaza and the West Bank were closed. In a second phase, it is to provide for the dispatch of missions of volunteer academics, on sabbatical, from Europe, North America and the rest of the world to the West Bank and Gaza."
"Palestinian students wishing to obtain a doctorate must study either in Israel, or overseas."

Starting in November 2017, around half the foreign lecturers in Palestinian universities began to be informed that their residency visas would not be extended because they had been "living in the area for more than five years." In addition, their spouses were required to pay tens of thousands of shekels as guarantee that they would not work.

Research centers 

Applied Research Institute–Jerusalem
	Institute for Palestine Studies
Palestinian Academic Society for the Study of International Affairs
Palestine Land Society
al-Shabaka
 Palestine Economic Policy Research Institute (MAS)

Advanced Research

Durham Palestine Educational Trust

Technical and vocational education and training
Formal vocational education starts after basic education and lasts two years. After graduation, students can join university colleges (diploma in 2 years or bachelor's degree in 4 years) or colleges (2 years). There are five streams in school-based vocational training: industrial, agricultural, commercial, hotel and home economics. Fifteen secondary industrial schools offer 17 specializations and 2,185 students are enrolled in 2004/05. All but three of these industrial schools are funded by government. Sixty four academic secondary schools offer commercial subjects and nearly 3,000 students are enrolled. The two hotel training schools are private. Total students enrollment for the five streams increased from around 3,000 in 1999/2000 to 5,561 in 2004/05. This is considerably lower than the MOEHE 2000–2005 target (9,000 students enrollment). This is partly because this type of training remains unpopular among most students and parents/guardians.

The demand for most vocational training is weak. A few community colleges with limited capacity of 200–300 students have high applicant-place ratio (especially for nursing and the UNRWA Gaza Training Centre). The rest of community colleges have only around one applicant-place ratio. Manual skilled occupations continue to have low status and only the least academically able students are expected to enroll at TVET institutions. The majority of colleges have low student-teacher ratios and high unit cost.

In addition to community colleges, the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs provides other TVET opportunities. Twelve Rehabilitation Centers that target dropouts, slow learners are run by this Ministry. Total enrollments were around 850 in 2004/05 with 380 graduates. The Ministry of Ex-Detainees also offers TVET to around 1,000 students and most of them are males. Four hundred fifty students are enrolled in the National Institute of Information Technology. The ministry also handles TVET centres (enrollment: 6600 students, which offer curriculum in trade (2 years), technical/semi-professional (2 years) and certificate courses (1 –2 years). Besides, The UNRWA provides short-term courses (8–40 weeks).

National Curriculum
A unified curriculum was applied in both the West Bank and the Gaza after using curriculum from other nations for a long time. The implementation phase of the national curriculum began by implementing national textbooks in all subjects in 2000. The textbooks were first implemented in Grade 1 and Grade 6, followed by textbooks for Grade 2 and Grade 7 in 2001. By the beginning of the 2006–2007, all students in all grades were using the Palestinian national textbooks
Schools
	American School of Palestine
	Al-Arkam school
	Rafah Elementary Co-Ed "B" School
	Ramallah Friends Schools

Education for Palestinian Refugees