[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cathy Small

Cathy A. Small (born 1949) is a cultural anthropologist and an emerita professor of anthropology at Northern Arizona University. She specializes in culture change, migration, and transnational studies with an emphasis on East Asia and the Pacific. In 2002, Small conducted a participant observation study of American university students and published her findings under the name Rebekah Nathan.

Early life
Small was born in 1949 in New York and grew up in Brooklyn. She attended Temple University, graduating with a Ph.D. in anthropology in 1987. Her doctorate was about the "impact of immigration on the people of Tonga."

Career 
Small started teaching anthropology at Northern Arizona University (NAU) in 1987, eventually becoming a professor and graduate coordinator. Small's work in anthropology focused on understanding long-term social change. She has examined the rise and fall of social institutions, the long-term implications of social structures, and the ways culture changes. Her work is known for critical empathetic feminism and reflexivity.

Tongan islanders 
Small's major ethnographic work focused on the immigration of Tongan islanders to the United States. She studied this population to understand long-term social change. As part of her research, she lived in Tonga for three years, working with a co-op of women who manufactured ceremonial cloth from Tapia tree bark.

Cornell University Press published her book, Voyages: From Tongan Villages to American Suburbs in 1997. Pacific Studies selected this book for scholarly review. More than 100 universities in the South Pacific region have adopted Voyages as a textbook. It was reissued with a new edition in 2011.

Small also created a virtual model of Polynesian society called TongaSim using C++.

Freshman Year 
After teaching for fifteen years, Small realized she no longer understood the behavior and attitude of her students. In the fall of 2002, Small decided to apply anthropological methodology to the issue and developed a participant observation study focusing on the life and practices of American university students. She said, "Given that I'm an anthropologist, I knew the best way to get insight about a different culture was to go and live like them." She took a leave of absence from teaching and enrolled as a freshman at Northern Arizona University. At the time, Small was 52 years old.

For a year, Small attended typical first-year classes and completed homework. She paid for her tuition and expenses. To better understand first-year students' emotional, social, and academic experiences, Small moved into the dorm, hung out in the student lounge, ate in the dining hall, and participated in student clubs. She also sequestered herself from family and friends throughout the study.

To collect data, Small asked her fellow students a lot of questions. She visually observed interactions in the dining hall, such as seating preferences by race. She also conducted formal interviews with more than fifty residential students. Approximately half of the participants figured out she was a professor of anthropology at NAU. When asked, she described herself as a writer interested in experiencing university life. When pushed, Small did admit that she was a professor and asked the questioner for confidentiality.

While a student at NAU, Small collected data needed to form a theory about campus social life. Her work resulted in a book, My Freshman Year: What a Professor Learned by Becoming a Student, published by Cornell University Press in 2005. Smith published the book under the pseudonym Rebekah Nathan and referred to the university as AnyU to protect the students and the university. Before publishing the book, Small obtained informed consent from students she wanted to quote. In addition, she did not identify the students by name in the book. Small intended to offer enough ambiguity to provide privacy to her informants while they were still in school.

In the book, Small's main thesis was that college campuses are not in complete unity and do not have a sense of community, but rather the social life is more controlled by ego-centered networks. According to this theory, students self-select the people they want to associate with and plan their schedules around these friends. As a result, the university's efforts to create a community were often unappealing to students and, therefore, unsuccessful. Small noted that many of the ego-centered networks change frequently or are short-lived.