[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Year of Older Persons

sons should have access to appropriate educational and training programmes.
 5. Older persons should be able to live in environments that are safe and adaptable to personal preferences and changing capacities.
 6. Older persons should be able to reside at home for as long as possible.

Participation

 7. Older persons should remain integrated in society, participate actively in the formulation and implementation of policies that directly affect their well-being and share their knowledge and skills with younger generations.
 8. Older persons should be able to seek and develop opportunities for service to the community and to serve as volunteers in positions appropriate to their interests and capabilities.
 9. Older persons should be able to form movements or associations of older persons.

Care

 10. Older persons should benefit from family and community care and protection in accordance with each society's system of cultural values.
 11. Older persons should have access to health care to help them to maintain or regain the optimum level of physical, mental and emotional well- being and to prevent or delay the onset of illness.
 12. Older persons should have access to social and legal services to enhance their autonomy, protection and care.
 13. Older persons should be able to utilize appropriate levels of institutional care providing protection, rehabilitation and social and mental stimulation in a humane and secure environment.
 14. Older persons should be able to enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms when residing in any shelter, care or treatment facility, including full respect for their dignity, beliefs, needs and privacy and for the right to make decisions about their care and the quality of their lives.

Self-fulfillment

 15. Older persons should be able to pursue opportunities for the full development of their potential.
 16. Older persons should have access to the educational, cultural, spiritual and recreational resources of society.

Dignity

 17. Older persons should be able to live in dignity and security and be free of exploitation and physical or mental abuse.
 18. Older persons should be treated fairly regardless of age, gender, racial or ethnic background, disability or other status, and be valued independently of their economic contribution.

IYOP commemorative coins and stamps

In Canada, the Division of Aging and Seniors of Health Canada played a lead role, along with similar offices established in every provincial jurisdiction. There were concerted efforts on the part of many seniors organizations, for whom the year provided a tremendous focal point around which to advance their concerns and aspirations. As a way to commemorate the event, Canada produced a commemorative coin and stamp. Both were designed by Shelagh Armstrong.

In 1999, the Royal Australian Mint issued a commemorative one dollar coin celebrating the IYOP.

See also
 United Nations International Years

References

External links
Official webpage
UNAC website on International Year of Older Persons

Older Persons, International Year of
1999 in international relations
Old age