[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# David D'Or

tle song "Yesh Od Tikvah" ("Our Hope Endures"), for which D'Or wrote the music and lyrics, on the CD Yesh Od Tikvah/You've Got a Friend. The CD released by Hed Arzi in 2002 benefited Israeli terror victims, with all proceeds going to "NATAL": the "Israel Trauma center for Victims of Terror and War".

D’Or then released David D’Or & the Philharmonic; Live Concert on April 1, 2003,  which successfully broke traditional barriers as it combined a medley of pop, classical, and opera which he sang, backed by the 120-member Israel Philharmonic Orchestra. The album, which included among other pieces "Agnus Dei", "Orfeo", "Let Me Cry", and "The Phantom of the Opera" reached gold status in just two weeks. The newspaper Yediot Achronot reviewed the CD in its opera section and wrote the following: "D’Or excelled...with his fantastic counter tenor voice...in a most exciting performance. All in all, this is a very moving CD." That year D'Or also released the CD "Shma Israel",  and "The Hidden Gate:  Jewish Music from Around the World" was released by Rounder Records on July 1, featuring what The Independent described as "haunting stuff" from David D'Or.

In November 2003, the Israel Broadcasting Authority (the "IBA") chose D'Or to represent the country in the 2004 Eurovision Song Contest. D'Or represented Israel in the contest in Istanbul, with the song "Leha'amin" (To Believe), which he co-wrote with Ehud Manor. The song was chosen on February 5, 2004, in voting during the program "Israel Selects a Song", held during a break in a televised Maccabi Tel Aviv Euroleague basketball game in Tel Aviv at which videos of four songs sung by D'Or were shown. The vote was by both a special IBA Eurovision Committee (including prior Israeli entrants Lior Narkis and Gali Atari), which accounted for 40% of the vote, and a televote by viewers, who accounted for the remaining 60% of the vote. The basketball game attracted 13.7% of Israeli TV viewers. The song won 60% of the jury's vote, and 66% of the viewers' televotes.

During Eurovision rehearsal week, D'Or left Istanbul to be with his father who was suffering from diabetes and had been rushed to a hospital where one of his legs had to be amputated. D'Or then returned to Istanbul to perform on May 12, 2004, and placed 11th in the semi-final failing to qualify to the final, while 19% of Israeli viewers watched on television. His father has since died.

On June 1, 2004, he released the CD entitled Le Haamin ("To Believe"). His performance of the song was also on the official Eurovision compilation CD, Eurovision Song Contest: Istanbul 2004, released that year by CMC Entertainment.  In 2004, he also collaborated with Sarit Hadad to record the DVD "Pets in Tunes.  His year was capped by his being awarded the titles of Israeli 2004 "Singer of the Year" and "Best Vocal Performer".

In January 2005, he released a clubby, English electronic house vinyl 12" single of George Michael's "Careless Whisper" on the 3 Lanka and Hed Arzi labels, produced and mixed by DJ Amiad, with remixes by Future Funk and Michi Lange. The track attracted international interest.

On March 27, 2006, D'Or released Kmo HaRuach ("Like the Wind"), which included duets with Israeli singers Arkadi Duchin, Arik Einstein, Shlomi Shabat, and Ehud Banai, and the song "Zman Ahava" ("Time for Love") with Ehud Banai. D'Or composed all the songs on the album, combining world music with jazz, Thai, and Indian elements. In 2006, D'Or also collaborated with rapper Subliminal for the song "Ten Koah" ("Give Me Strength") on Subliminal's hip hop album, Just When You Thought it Was Over. He also joined Shlomo Bar in a duet of "Atzlano Kafar Todrah" for the CD The Rough Guide to the Music of Israel released on February 17, 2006, and sang the song "Travelling North" or "Heading North" ("Nose'a Tzafonah") on the 2006 CD To the North with Love ("Latsafon Be'ahava"). 

On May 19, 2007, D’Or performed with soprano Seiko Lee in the world premier performance of the 40-minute ten-movement "peace cantata", "Halelu—Songs of David", in Belgrade, Serbia. The concert was televised to six other Eastern European countries. The composition for solo voices, chorus, and orchestra, was a collaborative effort of D’Or and American composer/conductor David Eaton, music director of the New York City Symphony, who conducted the combined Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra and the 120-voice choir of the Academic Cultural Artistic Society. Halelu is sung in English, Hebrew, Arabic, and Latin, with greetings of peace of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam figuring prominently in the lyrical content of several movements, and with Psalm 113 (sung in Hebrew by D’Or) as the basis of the 4th movement. He then released Halelu—Songs of David; Cantata for Peace (2007), in which he was accompanied by Lee, the Ra'anana Symphony Orchestra, and members of the Philharmonia Chorus of Israel.