[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Willerby, East Riding of Yorkshire

64 at Willerby, and a fourth south-east of Haltemprice Priory on the eastern edge of the parish. The total cost of the scheme was over £10 million.

In 2015 planning permission was given for 130 homes west of Great Gutter Lane, work on the development, "West Hill", started in August 2016.

Wolfreton

Wolfreton was a small hamlet approximately  north of the old village centre of Anlaby, on Wolfreton Road connecting Anlaby to Willerby Carr Lane (now Carr Lane). In the Domesday Book it was mentioned as Uluardune. In the 1850s it consisted only of few buildings including an Inn, the Springhead Inn, there was also a farm "Wolfreton farm" at the junction of Wolfreton Road with Willerby Carr Lane. By the beginning of the 20th century the Hull and Barnsley Railway had been built just south of the hamlet, which had expanded with a short row of terraced housing - Wolfreton Lane crossed under the railway line, and a new larger Springhead Inn had been built to the north of the original. By 1926 additional terraced housing had been built Wolfreton Villas, as well as housing along the section of Wolfreton Road to Anlaby. Springhead Halt railway station was built in the 1920s near to the crossing of Wolfreton Lane by the railway.

Housing development off the new (1920s) Kingston Road between Hull and Willerby began to encroach on the hamlet by the middle of the 20th century.

As of 2006 Wolfreton continues to be marked as a place on Ordnance Survey maps.

Willerby Hill
Willerby Hill is a small suburb just outside of Willerby. It is home to Willerby Hill Farm, cafe and horse riding stables. Total Fitness is there too along with swimming pools, gyms etc. Primarily, Willerby Hill is the boundary between Willerby and Cottingham and is mainly fields.

Governance
Willerby is situated within the safe Conservative Parliamentary Constituency of Haltemprice and Howden; the Haltemprice and Howden Conservative party  branch is based in Willerby, on Main Street. The village lies within the East Riding of Yorkshire Council electoral ward of 'Willerby and Kirk Ella'. The population of this ward at the 2011 Census was 13,578.

Geography

The village of Willerby forms an outermost western suburb of Hull, separated by non-agricultural green space including allotments, playing fields, and Springhead Park Golf Club. In the second half of the 20th century urban development became contiguous between the villages of Willerby, Kirk Ella to the south and Anlaby to the south-east. The northern half of the parish remains in agricultural use, and includes Haltemprice Priory farm, which contains archaeological remnants of the Augustinian Haltemprice Priory.

The boundaries of the modern civil parish of Willerby are formed by the route of the former Hull and Barnsley Railway (including the B1232 road) to the south, the A164 Beverley to Humber Bridge road to the west, and Sand Sike drainage channel in Springhead Park to the east. The northern boundary is with the civil parish of Cottingham. The parish rises from less than 33 feet above sea level in the east to approximately 130 feet at the western boundary, beyond which are the foothills of the Yorkshire Wolds in the parish of Skidby.

To the west of the village is Willerby Retail Park, which houses a Waitrose supermarket (formerly Safeway, 2004). Willerby has two hotels, converted from late 19th century houses, "The Grange", now  the Grange Park Hotel and Willerby Manor. The 1960 buildings of the lower school of Wolfreton School are within the civil parish of Willerby.

According to the 2011 UK census, Willerby parish had a population of 7,940, a reduction on the 2001 UK census figure of 8,056.

See also
Fairview Studios, a recording studio situated in the village.
Haltemprice Priory, former monastery and farm to the north-east of Willerby

Notes

References

External links

Villages in the East Riding of Yorkshire
Civil parishes in the East Riding of Yorkshire