[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joe FitzPatrick

of organ and tissue donation for deceased donors. FitzPatrick stated: "Organ and tissue donation can be a life-changing gift. Evidence shows that opt-out systems can make a difference as part of a wider package of measures and this Act provides further opportunities to both save and improve lives."

In December 2020, FitzPatrick welcomed a review which made it easier for gay and bisexual men to donate blood in Scotland. FitzPatrick stated: "I welcome the recommendations... which will enable a more individualised risk assessment approach to blood donor safety checks while continuing to ensure the safe supply of blood to patients. We are committed to equality and inclusion, and these changes will ensure a fairer and more up to date assessment of risk is applied to both men and women to identify whether donors may be at risk of a blood-borne virus infection."

In December 2020, figures were released revealing that 1,264 people in Scotland had died from drug overdoses in 2019 – the highest number in Europe and three and a half times the rate in England and Wales. Activist Darren McGarvey claimed FitzPatrick as Public Health Minister was "incapable of leading us anywhere but the mortuary" and opposition parties tabled a motion of no confidence in him in Holyrood. Two days before FitzPatrick left office as Public Health Minister he was challenged to attend an unsanctioned mobile drug consumption facility which was parked outside Holyrood by activist Peter Krykant. FitzPatrick supported calls for a supervised overdose prevention facility pilot in Scotland. The law to facilitate this remains reserved to the UK Government. FitzPatrick stated: "It’s clear the Misuse of Drugs Act is no longer fit for purpose. To enable innovations, such as a safer drug consumption facility, the law needs to change. We hope the UK Government will listen to the call from Scotland to make the necessary changes in the law to allow this to happen." First Minister Nicola Sturgeon told Parliament that the figures were "indefensible". FitzPatrick resigned, commenting that it had been the “privilege of my life to serve in the Scottish Government” but that the "most heart-breaking and difficult problems" he faced as public health minister were the harms and deaths caused by drug use.

In June 2022, FitzPatrick met with Krykant and charity Cranstoun in the Scottish Parliament to discuss proposals for an overdose prevention centre (OPC) in Dundee. FitzPatrick backed the calls and signed Cranstoun's pledge.

In the 2021 Scottish Parliament election FitzPatrick increased his majority to almost 13,000 votes over Scottish Labour. He was appointed Convener of the Scottish Parliament's Equalities, Human Rights and Civil Justice Committee.

In 2022, FitzPatrick led a Members' Debate in the Scottish Parliament condemning the findings of an investigation, undertaken by The Courier and Press & Journal, which found that 60% of female respondents had experienced sexism in football. FitzPatrick stated to Parliament: "I truly believe that by working together we can tackle sexism and misogyny in football and in wider society. We all know the benefits of playing sport—it improves physical and mental health, tackles isolation and loneliness and boosts self-esteem. Those benefits should be available to everyone, regardless of gender, race or ability."

At First Minister's Questions on 12 May 2022, FitzPatrick condemned reports of sexist, racist and homophobic comments at the Scottish Football Writers’ Association gala dinner. Nicola Sturgeon in response stated: "I very much agree with those sentiments. From what I have read about what occurred at that particular awards dinner, it was unacceptable. I pay tribute to Eilidh Barbour and others, who courageously took a stand against it and spoke out. It is never easy for any woman to speak out in that way, particularly in what is traditionally a man’s world, and Eilidh Barbour and her colleagues deserve credit for doing so." The Scottish Football Writers’ Association apologised after a speaker’s sexist and misogynistic jokes prompted attendees to walk out of its annual awards dinner.

FitzPatrick was appointed Minister for Local Government Empowerment and Planning in March 2023 by First Minister Humza Yousaf.

See also
Government of the 3rd Scottish Parliament

References

External links

 
 profile on SNP website
 personal website

1967 births
Living people
Politicians from Dundee
Alumni of Abertay University
Members of the Scottish Parliament for Dundee constituencies
Scottish National Party MSPs
Members of the Scottish Parliament 2007–2011
Members of the Scottish Parliament 2011–2016
Members of the Scottish Parliament 2016–2021
Members of the Scottish Parliament 2021–2026
Ministers of the Scottish Government
Councillors in Dundee
Scottish National Party councillors
Scottish gay men
Gay politicians
LGBT members of the Scottish Parliament