[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006–2008 Juba talks

land met with Kony and Otti in the hopes of pushing the talks forward on 12 November 2006.  Egeland had previously stated that he would meet with Kony only if the LRA released abducted children and wounded members, but Kony denied that anyone in the LRA was either wounded or held against their will.

The LRA declared that it was withdrawing from the talks on November 30, stating that UPDF had killed three of its fighters.  The deadline for the LRA fighters to finish gathering at the assembly points was 1 December.  Uganda denied the charge.  Also, outgoing United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan appointed Joaquim Chissano, former president of Mozambique, to be the UN envoy to the conflict. The truce was further extended for two more months on 18 December.

On 12 January 2007 Ojul stated that recent comments made by al-Bashir and Kiir clearly signified that the LRA was not welcome any longer in Sudan, and that further talks should occur in Kenya instead. On 14 March 2007 the LRA stated it would once again return to the Juba talks. After South Africa, Kenya and Mozambique agreed to join the peace talks (a demand the LRA had made before it would return to Juba), the next round of talks was held from 13 April to 14 April 2007. In this round, the ceasefire was extended until 30 June 2007, and Ri Kwangba was the agreed upon assembly point.  The next round of talks was set for 25 April 2007.

Resumption
Following this suspension in the peace talks, the Juba Initiative Project enabled the resumption of the talks in May 2007, thanks to the efforts of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for LRA-affected areas Joaquim Chissano.  The talks were again mediated by the Government of Southern Sudan, but with the support of the United Nations and logistic facilitation from the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), under the leadership of her local head Eliane Duthoit.

On 29 June 2007, the sides agreed to the principles of how justice and reconciliation will be handled, the third of the five-point agenda.  The LRA and government agreed that both formal justice procedures and the traditional Mato Oput ceremony of reconciliation would play a role.  Government delegation spokesperson Barigye Ba-Hoku stated that they would attempt to convince the ICC that this would address their concerns about impunity and that arrests under ICC auspices would not be necessary. In November 2007, an LRA delegation led by Martin Ojul journeyed to Kampala to restate their commitment to a peaceful resolution of the conflict.  Ojul later led the delegation on a tour of northern Uganda to meet victims of the insurgency and ask their forgiveness.  However, reports surfaced that LRA deputy commander Otti had been executed on or around 8 October 2007 over an internal power struggle with Kony.

On 20 December 2007 the government set an ultimatum for the peace talks to conclude by 31 January 2008, threatening that a new military offensive otherwise. The death of Vincent Otti, confirmed in mid-January 2008, was reported to threaten the success of the talks. Talks resumed on 30 January 2008, and the ceasefire was extended until 29 February 2008. The European Union and the United States joined the negotiations, increasing the number of observers to eight.

A breakthrough in negotiations was reached on 3 February 2008 regarding accountability and reconciliation. A deal was signed on 19 February 2008 which decided that the war crimes would be tried in a special section of the High Court of Uganda, thus bypassing the International Criminal Court and also removing one of the last obstacles to a final peace deal. On 22 February 2008, the rebels walked out of the talks again after being denied senior government posts. However, shortly thereafter they signed another breakthrough agreement according to which they "would be considered for government and army posts", but not automatically appointed. A permanent ceasefire to come into effect 24 hours after the signing a comprehensive peace treaty (expected by 29 February 2008) was agreed upon on 23 February 2008.

More problems appeared on 28 February 2008: The rebels demand a retraction of the ICC indictments, but the Ugandan government only wants to ask the UN to do that after the rebels have demobilised. An accord on Disarmament, Demobilisation and Reintegration was signed late on 29 February 2008, leaving the signing of the peace treaty itself as the last missing action.