[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Dražgoše

The Battle of Dražgoše () was a Second World War battle between the Slovene Partisans and Nazi Germany armed forces, which took place between January 9 and January 11, 1942, in the village of Dražgoše in German-annexed Slovenia. This battle was the first direct confrontation between the two. It ended with brutal reprisals of German forces against the villagers and the destruction of the village.

Background
Following the occupation of Slovenia, Germany planned to annex Upper Carniola, where Dražgoše is located, to the Reich, and Germanize the local population. The Germans expelled nearly all Slovene priests from the region, as well as teachers and other intellectuals, forbade the use of Slovene language in schools and churches, imported German-speaking teachers into Upper Carniola, while drafting local Slovenes into forced labor in the Reich. This soon generated resistance, with initially smaller scale actions, but the halting of the German Army before Moscow led to hopes the war would soon end, prompting the Slovene Liberation Front to start a wider uprising in Upper Carniola.

The main Partisan unit in Upper Carniola was the Cankar Battalion, founded in August 1941, which had already carried out a number of actions against the Germans, including an unsuccessful attempt to free prisoners from the Gestapo headquarters at Begunje. On December 12, 1941 the Cankar Battalion encountered a unit of German armed police near Rovte v Selški Dolini, killing 45 of them, perhaps one of the largest such single-battle successes to date in all occupied Europe. This further emboldened Slovenes, with hundreds voluntarily joining the Cankar Battalion.

News of the uprising reached Himmler, who ordered additional armed police battalions to suppress the uprising, and the German authorities also shot 37 Slovene prisoners, mostly Partisans and Partisan supporters, at their Gestapo headquarters in Begunje na Gorenjskem. The Germans attacked the Cankar Battalion at Pasja Ravan, where the Partisans resisted for three days, killing dozens of armed police. Knowing the Germans were sending reinforcements, the Cankar Battalion decided to retreat from Pasja Ravan and, after discussing a number of alternatives, decided to retreat to Dražgoše.

The battle

For the attack on Dražgoše, the Germans gathered four battalions with more than 2,000 well-armed men, including heavy artillery and a spotter airplane, to attack some 200 Partisans of the Cankar Battalion. Over three days of battles, from January 9 to 11, the Germans suffered 69 casualties - 27 killed and 42 wounded - while the Partisans had 20 casualties - 9 killed and 11 wounded.

On January 11, the Germans, with the help of local Slovene collaborators, managed to enter the village. That evening, the exhausted Partisans were forced to leave the village, withdrawing to Mount Jelovica, and some Dražgoše residents joined them in the withdrawal.

Some sources state the Partisans selected Dražgoše to challenge the German forces, and that villagers asked the Partisans forces to leave the village. Others note that going to Dražgoše was just one of multiple options considered by the Partisans, following their battles against the Germans at Rovte and Pasja Ravan, and point to the fact that when they arrived at the village, they permitted the locals to inform the Germans of their presence, so the village would not be held responsible and suffer reprisals.

Aftermath

Two days after the Dražgoše engagement, German troops attacked two Partisan platoons on the Mošnje Pasture (). During the 13-hour engagement, some 12 Partisans were killed and five were wounded.

After the battle at Dražgoše, German troops killed 41 villagers, including 21 civilians at Jelenšče, executing 18 (among them 7 children below 18 years, including two 11-year-olds, and a 13-year-old). They killed two more trying to escape, and also killed a 3-year-old girl, when a German soldier threw a grenade into a cellar full of civilians. During the evening of the following day, a further 18 male residents who had previously escaped, only to be apprehended as they returned, were executed, houses were looted, and the village was set on fire. In February 1942, the Germans returned to demolish the entire village with explosives, forbidding entry into the village until the end of the war. The remaining villagers were then rounded up and sent to concentration camps.

The German public announcement of the destruction of the village and the sending of women and children to concentration camps, proclaimed this was because the villagers did not report the Partisans’ presence,  which was clearly a lie, since the villagers reported the Partisans’ presence, with the approval of the Partisans, so they would not be held responsible. After listing the reprisals taken, the German announcement finished with a threat to all the residents of Upper Carniola: "Whoever is against us will be executed."