[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# James M. Hinds

James M. Hinds (December 5, 1833 – October 22, 1868) was the first U.S. Congressman assassinated in office. He served as member of the United States House of Representatives for Arkansas from June 24, 1868 until his assassination by the Ku Klux Klan. Hindsan advocate of civil rights for former slaveswas active during the Reconstruction era following the American Civil War. 
 
Born and raised in a small town in upstate New York, Hinds went west at the age of nineteen and graduated in 1856 from the Cincinnati Law School in Cincinnati, Ohio. He settled in Minnesota, where he opened a private law practice and was elected district attorney of his county. Looking for a fresh start, Hinds moved to the capital city of Little Rock, Arkansas in 1865. In 1867, he was elected to represent Pulaski County as a Republican at the Arkansas Constitutional Convention. The convention was tasked with rewriting the constitution to allow Arkansas' readmission to the Union following its secession and the American Civil War. At that convention, Hinds successfully advocated for constitutional provisions establishing the right to vote for adult freedmen, and for public education for both black and white children.

Campaigning for Republican candidate Ulysses S. Grant in the 1868 presidential election, Hinds was threatened and targeted by the Ku Klux Klan.  In October 1868, while travelling to a political meeting with Joseph Brooks in Monroe County, Hinds was shot to death by a Klansman.

Early life
Hinds was born in East Hebron, New York, to Charles and Jane Hinds. The youngest of six children, his brother Henry also became an attorney. Hinds' other siblings were brothers William, John, and Calvin, and his sister, Jane. He attended high school at Washington Academy in Salem, New York, and college at the Albany Normal School (now University at Albany, SUNY).  Hinds read law at a school in St. Louis, Missouri, before graduating from Cincinnati Law School four years after his brother Henry did so.

Career

Minnesota
Hinds initially left home and went west at age 19. After obtaining a law degree, in 1856 (at age 23) he moved to the Minnesota Territory and settled in St. Peter, the county seat of Nicollet County  west of his brother Henry in Shakopee, Minnesota. Hinds opened a law practice and was elected district attorney for the county.

Hinds was building a career and starting a family in St. Peter during a turbulent time in the region because of conflict between settlers and homesteaders and the Dakota Sioux, culminating in the Dakota War of 1862. He enlisted as a private in the First Minnesota Cavalry's Mounted Rangers, Company E during the conflict. Hinds hoped that St. Peter would become the capital of the new State of Minnesota. By early 1865, however, he realized that the town was destined to remain a small farming village. Seeking a fresh start and more opportunity, in mid-1865 he relocated with his wife and two young daughters to Little Rock, Arkansas, in the throes of Reconstruction.

Arkansas

Hinds found Arkansas, one of the 11 states of the former Confederacy, heavily degraded by the Civil War. The economy and labor system, which had relied upon slavery, were in shambles, and fighting between Confederate and Union forces had led to population decline and the loss of millions of dollars of property.
  
As with many Northerners, Hinds did not understand the depth of the South's resentment toward African Americans and Northerners. He believed that in the wake of the 1863 Emancipation Proclamation, the Civil War, and the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, freedmen in the South should enjoy the same liberties as in the North, and underestimated continuing fierce resistance from whites who had sided with the Confederacy. These sentiments were later eulogized by Logan H. Roots, a contemporary who represented Arkansas in Congress. Hinds found himself referred to as a carpetbagger, a pejorative term used by resentful Southerners to disparage Northerners who moved south during Reconstruction.