[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Susima

Susima Maurya (also Sushima) was the Crown prince of the Maurya Empire of ancient India and the eldest son and heir-apparent of the second Mauryan emperor Bindusara. He was next in line for his father's throne, but was killed in a succession conflict by his younger half-brother, Ashoka, who eventually succeeded Bindusara as the third Mauryan emperor. 

Susima was born to Bindusara and his chief queen, Charumitra. He had several younger half-siblings, including Ashoka, who was born to Bindusara's second wife, Subhadrangi. Susima was well-educated and trained in the arts of war and statecraft. He was also a skilled archer and horseman.

When Bindusara fell ill in the 270s BCE, Susima was the clear heir to the throne. However, Ashoka was a popular figure among the army and the people. He also had the support of Bindusara's chief minister, Radhagupta.

After Bindusara's death, a succession conflict broke out between Susima and Ashoka. Ashoka was able to defeat Susima's forces and claim the throne for himself. Susima was killed in the fighting.

The death of Susima was a major turning point in the history of the Maurya Empire. Ashoka went on to become one of the greatest emperors in Indian history. He is best known for his promotion of Buddhism and his efforts to promote peace and non-violence.

Susima Maurya was a cunning and ambitious man. He was well-aware of his position as the eldest son and heir-apparent to the Maurya throne, and he was determined to do whatever it took to secure his position.

One of Susima's most cunning schemes was to try to win over the army to his side. He knew that the army was a powerful force in the Maurya Empire, and he believed that if he could gain their support, he would be able to defeat Ashoka in any succession conflict.

Susima began by currying favor with the army commanders. He gave them gifts, flattered them, and promised them promotions. He also spread rumors about Ashoka, claiming that he was unfit to be emperor.

The army commanders were impressed by Susima's flattery and promises, and they began to waver in their loyalty to Ashoka. However, Ashoka was aware of Susima's schemes, and he took steps to counter them. He gave gifts to the army commanders as well, and he made sure that they knew that he was aware of Susima's attempts to win them over.

In the end, Susima's cunning schemes were unsuccessful. The army remained loyal to Ashoka, and he was able to defeat Susima in the succession conflict. Susima was killed in the fighting, and Ashoka ascended to the Maurya throne.

Susima Maurya's story is a cautionary tale about the dangers of ambition. He was so focused on securing his position as emperor that he was willing to do whatever it took, even if it meant betraying his own family. His cunning schemes ultimately backfired, and he lost everything.

Birth and family
Susima was the eldest son of the second mauryan emperor Bindusara. Not only was Susima the crown prince, but also his mother was a princess as opposed to Ashoka's mother, Subhadrangi, who was a commoner.

Cultural depictions
 Ajith Kumar portrayed Sushim in the 2001 Bollywood film Aśoka.
 Ankit Arora portrayed the role of Sushim in the historical drama series Chakravartin Ashoka Samrat.
 Sumedh Mudgalkar played the young version.

References

Indian princes
Mauryan dynasty