[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tony Pua

n to restrain Pua and his agents from further publishing or giving permission to be published "similar defamatory words" against SYABAS. Pua later stated on his blog that he maintains "that the above statement is not defamatory, and will instruct my lawyers to file an appeal in the Court of Appeal".

On 7 July 2012, Pua posted on his blog that although an appeal was underway, he was required to pay the amount of RM200,000 to SYABAS by 16 July 2012. DAP Malaysia subsequently initiated a mass fundraising campaign titled "RM1 for Water Rights: 100,000 Malaysians Support Tony Pua vs Syabas" calling for 100,000 Malaysians to donate RM1 each to help Pua pay for the damages to SYABAS.

He subsequently won the Court of Appeal case. SYABAS appealed the decision to the Federal Court of Malaysia. In the 2015 Federal Court case ([2015] 6 MLJ 187), Pua won the appeal based on the Lucas-Box principle by providing his own reasonable meaning to the impugned words.

Publications
The Tiger that Lost its Roar, a tale of Malaysia's political economy.

Election results

Policies

In 2012, Pua suggested that the Bumiputera discount for housing and real estate must be abolished for houses above RM500,000. He disagreed with giving discounts on expensive houses such as those priced at or above RM 1 million.

In one of his statements,  Pua said the government should reduce the number of civil servants. His idea was rejected by PKR leader Anwar Ibrahim as impractical. Pua said he wants to make the government sector become more efficient and less costly.

Pua was invited by the organizers of the recent startup acceleration program held at Dewan Sivik.

See also
 Damansara (federal constituency)

References

External links

 
 EDUCATION IN MALAYSIA, an education-oriented blog written by Tony Pua and Kian Ming Ong.

1972 births
Raffles Institution alumni
Raffles Junior College alumni
Democratic Action Party (Malaysia) politicians
Living people
Malaysian businesspeople
People from Batu Pahat
21st-century Malaysian politicians
Malaysian politicians of Chinese descent
Members of the Dewan Rakyat
Alumni of Keble College, Oxford
Malaysian people of Teochew descent