[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# From Beyond (film)

him!" in between mad laughter and crying.

Cast 
 Jeffrey Combs as Dr. Crawford Tillinghast
 Barbara Crampton as Dr. Katherine McMichaels
 Ted Sorel as Dr. Edward Pretorius
 Ken Foree as Bubba Brownlee
 Carolyn Purdy-Gordon as Dr. Bloch
 Bunny Summers as Neighbor Lady
 Bruce McGuire as Jordan Fields

Production 
Director Stuart Gordon had previously worked with actors Jeffrey Combs and Barbara Crampton on Re-Animator, and he cast them in part because he had become used to working with a company of actors during his time in theater, and felt that doing the same thing with Lovecraft movies would allow the actors to adapt more quickly to his direction. He was interested in the possibility of making a series of H. P. Lovecraft films with the same cast, like Roger Corman's Edgar Allan Poe adaptations. Gordon, Combs, and Crampton would work together on a third Lovecraft adaptation in 1995, the direct-to-video Castle Freak, and Gordon would later direct versions of two more of Lovecraft's works: the film Dagon in 2001, and the second episode of the Masters of Horror television series, H. P. Lovecraft's Dreams in the Witch-House, in 2005. Many members of the production staff for Re-Animator also held similar roles in the production of From Beyond, including screenwriter Dennis Paoli, producer Brian Yuzna, executive producer Charles Band, director of photography Mac Ahlberg, and special effects artists John Carl Buechler and John Naulin.

Albert Band, who served as the production manager of From Beyond, also makes an uncredited appearance as a wino. Gordon's then-wife Carolyn Purdy-Gordon was cast in a small role in many of Gordon's films, and in From Beyond she played Dr. Bloch, the subject of the notorious eyeball-sucking scene.

From Beyond was shot in Italy with an Italian crew in order to save money. Gordon says that the film would have cost fifteen million dollars to make in the United States, whereas the foreign production enabled him to hold costs to approximately two and a half million dollars. It was shot on a soundstage called Dinocitta just outside Rome. Dinocitta was originally constructed by Dino DeLaurentiis, but was seized by the government for nonpayment of taxes, and then sold to Empire Studios. From Beyond was one of the first films shot at that venue during its period of ownership by Empire. Gordon shot his film Dolls at the same time, and it was released the following year.

As with his earlier film Re-Animator, Gordon made use of medical advisors to be sure that the actions taken by the doctors and nurses of the film followed proper medical procedures. Four separate special effects teams worked on the effects for From Beyond. According to Yuzna, the production ran out of money before the effects on the finale could be finished.

According to Gordon, securing an "R" rating from the MPAA was a challenging ordeal, because the MPAA told him that it was the cumulative effect of the graphic content rather than any specific content in his first presented cut of the film that went beyond what audiences would expect from an "R" rated film, making it difficult for him to know what he needed to cut in order to get an "R" rating. He submitted multiple cuts of the film to the MPAA, each time making small trims without removing any entire sequences, before they at last sent him a message that if he cut a single specific frame, they would give it an "R". He later said that this process ended up making the film stronger, since the final cut left more to the viewer's imagination and gave viewers less time to study the special effects and figure out how they were done.

Release 
MGM released an unrated cut of From Beyond, containing the footage which was deleted from the film in order to get it an "R" rating. From Beyond had previously only been released in its original R-rated form. This longer, "director's cut" version aired on the Monsters HD Channel and was subsequently released on DVD by MGM on September 11, 2007.

On March 26, 2013, Scream Factory released a Collector's Edition of the unrated "director's cut" of From Beyond on a Blu-ray/DVD combo pack.

Awards and reception 
The film received generally positive reviews from critics. On the review website Rotten Tomatoes, the film maintains a 80% approval rating from critics, with an average rating of 6.8/10 based on 19 reviews as of November 2022.