[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 157]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

this uncertainty, I considered the nature of their
situation, and had the good fortune to find out a resource, which, being
communicated to my friend and chief, and adopted by the nation, was the
means of their safety. I observed that the passage to the Saukie camp,
for the Iroquese, lay along a narrow slip of land which extended for
nearly a mile between two lakes. I therefore advised the Saukies to cast
up a strong barrier at the end of the passage, which I showed them how
to strengthen with ditches, palisades, and some of the improvements of
the European fortification. Their number of warriors amounted to about
four hundred; these I divided into equal parts, and, leaving one to
defend the lines, I placed the other in ambuscade along the neighbouring
woods. Scarcely were these dispositions finished before the Iroquese
appeared, and, imagining they were rushing upon an unguarded foe,
entered the defile without hesitation. As soon as the whole body was
thus imprudently engaged, the other party of the Saukies started from
their hiding-places, and, running to the entrance of the strait, threw
up in an instant another fortification, and had the satisfaction to see
the whole force of their enemies thus circumvented and caught in a trap.
The Iroquese soon perceived the difficulty and danger of escape; they,
however, behaved with that extraordinary composure which is the peculiar
characteristic of this people on every occasion. The lakes were at that
time frozen over, yet not so hard as to permit them to effect a passage
over the ice; and though a thaw succeeded in a short time, it was
equally impracticable to pass by swimming or on rafts. Three days,
therefore, the Iroquese remained quiet in this disagreeable situation,
and, as if they had nothing to apprehend, diverted themselves all this
time with fishing. On the fourth morning they judged the ice
sufficiently dissolved to effect their escape; and therefore, cutting
down some trees which grew upon the strait, they formed them into rafts,
and embarked their whole force. But this could not be done without the
knowledge of the Saukies, who despatched a considerable body of warriors
to oppose their landing. It is unnecessary to relate all the horrid
particulars of the engagement which ensued; I will only mention, that
the Iroquese at length effected their landing with the loss of half
their number, and retreated precipitately to their own country, leaving
behind them all the furs and skins which they had taken in their
hunting. The share I had had in this success gained me the friendship of
all the nation, and, at my desire, they sent some of their young men to
guide me through the woods to the English settlements, and they took
their leave of me with every expression of esteem, and a considerable
present of valuable furs.

"These, gentlemen (with the exception of one adventure, when I was
attacked by three desperate-looking fellows, two of whom I killed, and
the other fled), are the most important and interesting events of my
life; and as I have already trespassed too long upon your patience, I
shall now hasten to draw my story to a conclusion. After this I was
employed in various parts of America and the West Indies during the rest
of the war. I suffered hardships and difficulties innumerable, and
acquired, as my father had foretold, a little wisdom at the price of a
considerable quantity of blood. When the war was ended, I found myself
nearly in the same situation as I began, except the present of my
friendly Americans, which I turned into money and remitted to England. I
therefore now began to feel my military enthusiasm abated, and, having
permission to leave the service, I embraced that opportunity of
returning to my country, fully determined to spend the remainder of my
life amid my family and friends. I found my father and mother still
living, who received me in the fondest manner. I then employed the
little fund I had acquired to stock a farm, which I hired in the
neighbourhood, and where I imagined my care and industry would be
sufficient to insure us all a comfortable subsistence. Some little time
after, I married a virtuous and industrious young woman, the mother of
the unfortunate children who are so much indebted to your bounty. For
some time I made a shift to succeed tolerably well, but at length, the
distresses of my country increasing, I found myself involved in the
deepest poverty. Several years of uncommon severity destroyed my cattle
(which is the chief support of the Highlanders), and rotted away the
scanty crops, which were to supply us with food, upon the ground. I
cannot accuse myself of either voluntary unthriftiness or neglect of my
business, but there are some situations in which it seems impossible for
human exertion to stem the torrent of misfortune. But wherefore should I
give pain to such kind and worthy benefactors, by a detail of all the
miseries which I and ma