[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# State Border Service

The State Border Service of Azerbaijan Republic () is a governmental law enforcement agency in charge of protecting the borders of Azerbaijan. The Chief of State Border Service is Colonel-General Elchin Guliyev. Other law enforcement bodies in Azerbaijan include the Internal Troops of Azerbaijan and the Azerbaijani National Guard.

Objectives 
The major objectives of the State Border Service of Azerbaijan are to protect the state border of the republic, fight against international terrorism, illegal migration and human trafficking, smuggling, drug trafficking, the proliferation of components of weapons of mass destruction, protection of oil and gas platforms and pipelines in the Azerbaijani sector of the Caspian Sea. Furthermore, it is one of the main duties of State Border Service of Azerbaijan to overcome military attacks of troops or criminal groups of foreign countries to the territory of Azerbaijan Republic, protects people, state property, private property from those military and other actions and prevents this kind of actions.

History
Legislation on Border Troops includes the Constitution of Azerbaijan, present law, and other legislative acts, on top of decrees of the President, resolutions of the Cabinet of Ministers, and international and intergovernmental treaties. The Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan "On Border Troops" was adopted on January 6, 1994. According to these laws, the State Border Service (SBS) is responsible for the security and protection of the borders of Azerbaijan. At the time, the border troops were part of the Ministry of National Security of Azerbaijan. The State Border Service of Azerbaijan was established on July 31, 2002 by decree of the President of Azerbaijan Heydar Aliyev, by the removal of the border troops from jurisdiction of the Ministry of National Security. Every year since 2000, 18 August has been celebrated as the Day of the Border Guard, commemorating the parliament on 18 August 1918 signing a decree "On the protection of the state border of the Republic of Azerbaijan" and a law "On the establishment of border customs protection in the Republic of Azerbaijan."

On 15 June 2019, in honor of the National Salvation Day of Azerbaijanis, the SBS organized a procession with a 100 m long flag of Azerbaijan. More than 5,000 border guards carried the Flag of Azerbaijan on their shoulders. They were escorted by border guard riders on Karabakh horses, armored fighting vehicles and 8 helicopters.

Operations 
In December 2018, by order of the President Ilham Aliyev, the SBS took up combat positions and facilities on the section of the border with Armenia, passing through the territory of Gazakh and Aghstafa regions, replacing the units of the Azerbaijani Army covering the border. At the moment, the protection and defense of this section of the border is carried out by units of the Separate Border Division "Gazakh" of the border troops of the State Border Guard Service. The Border Guard Service also took part in extinguishing forest fires in the summer in the Borjomi-Kharagauli National Park in central Georgia, sending two helicopters to help. In the fall of 2020, during the armed conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh with the participation of the State Border Service, the Azerbaijani forces seized control of several settlements in Jabrayil District. The Supreme Commander of the Azerbaijani Armed Forces, President Ilham Aliyev congratulated Elchin Guliyev in connection with "raising the Azerbaijani flag over the Khudafarin bridge, liberating several residential settlements with the participation of the SBS." During the war, Hikmet Hajiyev, Assistant of the Azerbaijani president, expressed concern over a photo published by Armenia's Defense Ministry in which Defense Minister David Tonoyan were with Armenian soldiers wearing military uniforms of the SBS, saying that they may "organize perpetration of military crimes against the civilian Armenian population, and attempting to put the responsibility on Azerbaijan".

Cooperation 
The State Border Service of Azerbaijan actively cooperates with the border guard agencies of neighboring states such as Russia, Georgia, Turkey, Iran, Kazakhstan, and Turkmenistan. Within the framework of this cooperation, bilateral and multilateral meetings, and conferences are held. Additionally, regular joint exercises are conducted with the border services of Russia and Kazakhstan. The cooperation with the neighboring countries have been aimed to improve the security of the airspace of Azerbaijan and the maritime space in the Caspian Sea. The State Border Service of Azerbaijan is also working together with NATO due to the same purpose.