[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bulgaria and the euro

European institutions. If concerns about risks ease and the process resumes, this would be supportive of the rating, as underlined by our view that all things being equal, we would upgrade Bulgaria's Long-Term Foreign-Currency IDR by two notches between admission to the ERM II and joining the euro."

On 30 April 2020, Bulgaria officially submitted documents to the European Central Bank to apply to join ERM II, the first step to introducing the euro. On 12 May, European Commission Executive Vice President Valdis Dombrovskis stated that Bulgaria could join ERM II together with Croatia in July, which both countries did on 10 July.

Joining the eurozone 
Bulgaria is in the process of joining the eurozone. On 17 February 2023, Finance Minister Rositsa Velkova announced that Bulgaria will not join the eurozone on 1 January 2024 and that the new target date for the entry into the euro area is 1 January 2025. In April 2023, however, enough signatures were collected to put the entry to a referendum. In June 2023 the referendum has been rejected by Bulgaria's parliament with 98 votes against, 46 abstensions and 68 votes in favour. On 26 July 2023, the newly formed Bulgarian government adopted a programme which stated that the switch to the euro in January 2025 is one of the main government priorities.

Status

Advantages of euro adoption 
Because the lev is pegged to the euro at a fixed exchange rate, it can be argued that Bulgaria is already a de facto member of the euro area insofar as it cannot pursue an independent monetary policy and is bound by the monetary policy and interest rate decisions of the European Central Bank, without having a say. Adopting the euro and thereby becoming a de jure member of the euro area would enhance Bulgaria's position by giving it a voice in the ECB.

Moreover, the fact that the lev is pegged to the euro at a fixed exchange rate also means that Bulgaria cannot devalue its currency in order to make its exports more competitive. Therefore, Bulgaria would not lose anything in this regard by adopting the euro.

Other advantages of adopting the euro include the improved supervision of Bulgaria's systemically important banks once it has joined ERM II together with the European banking union, and the decreased cost of borrowing and full access to the eurozone's COVID-19 pandemic rescue packages.

Selecting the design 
Bulgarian euro coins will replace the lev once the convergence criteria are fulfilled. On the occasion of the signing of the EU accession treaty on 25 April 2005, the Bulgarian National Bank issued a commemorative coin with a face value of 1.95583 leva, giving it a nominal value of exactly 1 euro.

The Madara Rider was one of the favourites to become the symbol of Bulgaria to be used on the "national" (obverse) side of the country's euro coins. Other eminent contenders to be the 'symbol of Bulgaria' were ancient traditional nestinars (Bulgarian fire dancers), Cyrillic script, the Rila Monastery and the Tsarevets medieval fortress near Veliko Turnovo.

On 17 June 2008, debates on the design of future Bulgarian euro coins were held all over the country, continuing until 29 June when a vote was held on the symbol to be used on all coins. Bulgarians voted in post offices, gas stations and schools. That same day, the winner was announced: a plurality of voters, 25.44%, had chosen the Madara Rider to be depicted on future euro coins.

On July 24, 2023, in an interview before the BTA, the governor of the BNB - Dimitar Radev announced that at a meeting of the BNB Governing Council it was decided that the Bulgarian national side of the euro coins would be identical to that of the lev coins, namely:

- on the coins of 1 euro cent, 2 euro cents, 5 euro cents, 10 euro cents, 20 euro cents and 50 euro cents, the Madar horseman should be depicted, as well as the Cyrillic inscription "Stotinka" (the Bulgarian denomination of the Bulgarian coins);

- on the 1 euro coin - Ivan Rilski, together with the Cyrillic inscription "Euro";

- on the 2-euro coin - Paisius of Hilendar - with the Cyrillic inscription "Euro";

- on each of the coins there will be an inscription in Cyrillic "Bulgaria";

- the 2-euro band will be written in Cyrillic "GOD, PROTECT BULGARIA!" - thus, according to the manager of Bulgarian Bank, the Bulgarian monetary tradition (dating back to the 13th century) will be respected in the coinage

The Bulgarian Cyrillic alphabet and the preservation of the "stotinka" (in the form of Bulgarian eurocents) will bring the new currency closer to the old Bulgarian lev.

Linguistic issues