[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Monarchy of Antigua and Barbuda

ice force, postal workers, prison officers rank insignia.

God Save The King is the royal anthem of Antigua and Barbuda.

Under the Antigua and Barbuda Citizenship Act, new citizens of Antigua and Barbuda have to take a pledge of allegiance to the monarch, and his heirs and successors.

Royal visits

Princess Margaret visited Antigua in 1955. Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother visited on 17 March 1964. Princess Alice visited on 10 and 19 March 1964 during her Caribbean tour as Chancellor of the University of the West Indies. The Duke of Edinburgh visited in November 1964.

Queen Elizabeth II, and her consort, the Duke of Edinburgh, visited Antigua and Barbuda during their Caribbean tour of 1966. During the visit, they visited the capital city of Saint John's, where they attended an Investiture at Government House and Divine Service at St John's Cathedral at which Prince Philip read the lesson. The Queen and the Duke visited again during the Silver Jubilee tour of October 1977, staying onboard HMY Britannia. The Queen opened the New Administration Building and attended a lunch held by the Governor at Clarence House.

Princess Margaret represented the Queen at the independence celebrations in 1981.

The Queen of Antigua and Barbuda visited in 1985, and met patients and staff in the new Children's Ward of the Holberton Hospital following a Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in the Bahamas.

The Duke of York visited in January 2001. The Earl of Wessex visited Antigua and Barbuda in October 2003 as Trustee of The Duke of Edinburgh's Award International Association. The Earl of Wessex visited again in 2006 to represent the Queen at the celebrations marking the country's twenty fifth anniversary of independence.

In March 2012, the Earl and Countess of Wessex, visited Antigua and Barbuda to mark the Queen's Diamond Jubilee. Prince Harry visited in 2016 to mark the 35th anniversary of independence of Antigua and Barbuda. In November 2017, the Prince of Wales visited Antigua and Barbuda to see how communities were recovering following the devastation caused by Hurricanes Irma and Maria.

The Earl and Countess of Wessex visited in April 2022 to mark the Queen's Platinum Jubilee.

Republicanism

The monarchy is not a major topic of debate in Antigua and Barbuda. In 2020, Information Minister, Melford Nicholas stated that the country may examine the possibility of transition to a republic in some point in the future.

In 2022, Prime Minister Gaston Browne said he aspires the country to become a republic "at some point", and acknowledged that such a move is "not on the cards", and Antigua and Barbuda will continue as a monarchy for "some time to follow". On 10 September 2022, following the proclamation of Charles III as king, Browne stated that he plans to hold a referendum within three years on becoming a republic.

List of Antiguan and Barbudan monarchs

See also

 Lists of office-holders
 List of prime ministers of Elizabeth II
 List of prime ministers of Charles III
 List of Commonwealth visits made by Elizabeth II
 Monarchies in the Americas
 List of monarchies
 King Court Tackey

References

External links
 Antigua and Barbuda at The Royal Family website
 1981 Constitution of Antigua and Barbuda

Monarchy of Antigua and Barbuda
Government of Antigua and Barbuda
Politics of Antigua and Barbuda
Antigua and Barbuda
Heads of state of Antigua and Barbuda
1981 establishments in Antigua and Barbuda
Monarchies of North America
Kingdoms