[Source: PubMed]

100. Eur J Psychotraumatol. 2024;15(1):2355828. doi:
10.1080/20008066.2024.2355828.  Epub 2024 Jun 3.

Effect of trauma on asylum seekers and refugees receiving a WHO psychological 
intervention: a mediation model.

Serra R(1)(2), Purgato M(1), Tedeschi F(1), Acartürk C(3)(4), Karyotaki E(5), 
Uygun E(3)(4), Turrini G(1), Winkler H(6), Pinucci I(2), Wancata J(7), Walker 
L(8), Popa M(9), Sijbrandij M(5), Välimäki M(10)(11), Kösters M(12)(13), Nosè 
M(1), Anttila M(10), Churchill R(14), White RG(15), Lantta T(10)(16), Klein 
T(12)(13), Wochele-Thoma T(17), Tarsitani L(2), Barbui C(1).

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Research and Training in 
Mental Health and Service Evaluation, Department of Neuroscience, Biomedicine 
and Movement Sciences, Section of Psychiatry, University of Verona, Verona, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Human Neurosciences, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Psychology, Koc University, Istanbul, Türkiye.
(4)Trauma and Disaster Mental Health, Bilgi University, Istanbul, Türkiye.
(5)Department of Clinical, Neuro- and Developmental Psychology, WHO 
Collaborating Center for Research and Dissemination of Psychological 
Interventions, Amsterdam Public Health Research Institute, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Community Psychiatric Services Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(7)Division of Social Psychiatry, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(8)School of Health and Psychological Sciences, City, University of London, 
London, UK.
(9)Institute of Population Health, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
(10)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Nursing Science, University of Turku, 
Turku, Finland.
(11)School of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(12)Center for Evidence-Based Healthcare, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus 
and Carl Gustav Carus Faculty of Medicine, T U Dresden, Chemnitz, Germany.
(13)Department of Psychiatry II, Ulm University, Ulm, Germany.
(14)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, York, UK.
(15)School of Psychology, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(16)Centre for Forensic Behavioural Science, Swinburne University of Technology, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(17)Psychiatric Services Caritas Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Background: Scalable psychological interventions such as the WHO's Self-Help 
Plus (SH+) have been developed for clinical and non-clinical populations in need 
of psychological support. SH+ has been successfully implemented to prevent 
common mental disorders among asylum seekers and refugees who are growing in 
number due to increasing levels of forced migration. These populations are often 
exposed to multiple, severe sources of traumatisation, and evidence of the 
effect of such events on treatment is insufficient, especially for non-clinical 
populations.Objective: We aim to study the effect of potentially traumatic 
experiences (PTEs) and the mediating role of symptoms of posttraumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD) on the improvement following SH+.Method: Participants allocated 
to SH+ who received at least three sessions (N = 345) were extracted from two 
large, randomised, European prevention trials involving asylum seekers and 
refugees. Measures of distress, depression, functional impairment, and 
post-traumatic stress symptoms were administered at baseline and 6 months 
post-intervention, together with measures of well-being and quality of life. 
Adjusted models were constructed to examine the effect of PTEs on 
post-intervention improvement. The possible mediating role of PTSD symptoms in 
this relationship was then tested.Results: Increasing numbers of PTEs decreased 
the beneficial effect of SH+ for all measures. This relationship was mediated by 
symptoms of PTSD when analysing measures of well-being and quality of life. 
However, this did not apply for measures of mental health problems.Conclusions: 
Exposure to PTEs may largely reduce benefits from SH+. PTSD symptomatology plays 
a specific, mediating role on psychological well-being and quality of life of 
participants who experienced PTE. Healthcare professionals and researchers 
should consider the role of PTEs and PTSD symptoms in the treatment of migrants 
and refugees and explore possible feasible add-on solutions for cases exposed to 
multiple PTEs.

Plain Language Summary: Increasing numbers of potentially traumatic experiences 
can decrease the beneficial effect of a manualized group psychotherapeutic 
intervention in migrants and refugees across multiple countries.In absence of a 
full threshold diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder, post-traumatic 
stress symptoms still mediate the relation between potentially traumatic 
experiences and some outcome improvements at follow-up.While the moderating role 
of number of potentially traumatic experiences applies to all outcomes 
(depression symptoms, psychological distress, functional impairment, well-being, 
and quality of life), the mediating role of post-traumatic stress symptoms in 
this relation only applies to well-being and quality of life.

Antecedentes: Se han desarrollado intervenciones psicológicas escalables, como 
Self-Help Plus (SH+) de la OMS, para poblaciones clínicas y no clínicas que 
necesitan apoyo psicológico. SH+ se ha implementado con éxito para prevenir 
trastornos mentales frecuentes entre los solicitantes de asilo y refugiados, 
cuyo número está aumentando debido a los crecientes niveles de migración 
forzada. Estas poblaciones a menudo están expuestas a múltiples y graves fuentes 
de traumatización, y la evidencia del efecto de tales eventos en el tratamiento 
es insuficiente, especialmente para las poblaciones no clínicas. Objetivo: 
Nuestro objetivo es estudiar el efecto de las experiencias potencialmente 
traumáticas (EPTs) y el papel mediador de los síntomas del trastorno de estrés 
postraumático (TEPT) en la mejora después de SH+. Método: Los participantes 
asignados al programa de intervención SH+ que recibieron al menos tres sesiones 
(N = 345) fueron extraídos de dos grandes ensayos de prevención europeos, 
aleatorizados, que involucraron a personas que solicitaron asilo y refugiados. 
Se administraron medidas de angustia, depresión, deterioro funcional y síntomas 
de estrés postraumático al inicio del estudio y 6 meses después de la 
intervención, junto con medidas de bienestar y calidad de vida. Se construyeron 
modelos ajustados para examinar el efecto de las EPTs en la mejora posterior a 
la intervención. A continuación se comprobó el posible papel mediador de los 
síntomas del trastorno de estrés postraumático en esta relación. Resultados: Un 
número creciente de EPTs disminuyó el efecto beneficioso de SH+ para todas las 
medidas. Esta relación estuvo mediada por los síntomas del TEPT al analizar 
medidas de bienestar y calidad de vida. Sin embargo, esto no se aplica a las 
medidas de problemas de salud mental. Conclusiones: La exposición a EPTs puede 
reducir en gran medida los beneficios de SH+. La sintomatología TEPT desempeña 
un papel mediador específico en el bienestar psicológico y la calidad de vida de 
los participantes que experimentaron EPTs. Los profesionales de la salud y los 
investigadores deben considerar el papel de las EPTs y los síntomas de TEPT en 
el tratamiento de migrantes y refugiados, y explorar posibles soluciones 
factibles complementarias para los casos expuestos a múltiples EPTs.

DOI: 10.1080/20008066.2024.2355828
PMCID: PMC11149571
PMID: 38828909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).