[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Telenet

speed of 1200 bit/s, and later 4800 bit/s.

For example, a customer in NYC could dial into the local number, then type in a command similar to:

which would connect (that "c") them to a computer system designated as number "555" located in the same vicinity as the standard telephone "area code" 301.

One significant customer was an early (what would now be called) internet service provider The Source which had their equipment in Mclean, Va. Telenet offered a much lower nighttime rate when there were few corporate customers, and this let The Source set up a modestly priced offering to tens of thousands of customers. Another prominent customer in the 1980s was Quantum Link (now AOL).

Other access protocols

Telenet supported remote concentrators for IBM 3270 family intelligent terminals, which communicated, via X.25 to Telenet-written software that ran in IBM 370x series front-end processors. Telenet also supported Block Mode Terminal Interfaces (BMTI) for IBM Remote Job Entry terminals supporting the 2780/3780 and HASP Bisync protocols.

PC Pursuit

In the late 1980s, Telenet offered a service called PC Pursuit. For a flat monthly fee, customers could dial into the Telenet network in one city, then dial out on the modems in another city to access bulletin board systems and other services. PC Pursuit was popular among computer hobbyists because it sidestepped long-distance charges. In this sense, PC Pursuit was similar to the Internet, allowing any user to call any system as if it were local.

On connection to the network, the user entered a 5-letter code for the target city they wished to call. This consisted of a 2-letter state code and a 3-letter acronym for the city. For instance, to call a system in Cleveland, Ohio, the user would enter the code OHCLV, for "OHio", "CLeVeland". Once connected, the user could dial out to any local number, and the system simulated a direct connection between the two endpoints.

Notes

See also
 International Packet Switched Service
Tymnet

References

1974 establishments in Washington, D.C.
American companies established in 1974
Companies based in McLean, Virginia
Companies based in Reston, Virginia
Companies based in Washington, D.C.
Computer companies established in 1974
Computer networks
Computer-related introductions in 1974
History of telecommunications
Pre–World Wide Web online services
Telecommunications-related introductions in 1974
X.25