[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Ignacio Hidalgo de Cisneros

hurin in Bucharest, in a small but carefully selected apartment and with Roberto Carillo as his neighbor. It is not clear what citizenship he held, either in Romania or earlier in Poland. He travelled to Western Europe, frequently visiting France to take part in PCE sittings and to see his relatives

During last years of his life Hidalgo de Cisneros kept working on the second volume of his memoirs and kept delivering charlas over REI; in the early 1960s his memoirs were published in Poland and in France. In 1965 he travelled to East Berlin giving a lecture to the East German air force audience on the Republican aviation; he took the opportunity to accuse the Bundeswehr general Heinrich Trettner of having been a war criminal, guilty of atrocities committed during the Spanish Civil War. Before boarding the plane back he suffered from heart attack; partially recovered, he returned to Bucharest, where he suffered another, fatal stroke. Hidalgo de Cisneros was buried on the Bellu cemetery with full Romanian military honors, his grave covered with mountains of red flowers from communist authorities, PCE leaders and delegations of Interbrigadistas from Romania, Poland, France, Germany, Bulgaria and the USSR. No Catholic priest was present and as he had no children, it was other family members who arrived from Spain. The second volume of his memoirs was published posthumously the same year. His remnants were re-buried in the family grave in Vitoria in 1994.

See also
 Spanish Republican Air Force
 Spanish Communist Party
 Spanish Civil War
 Constancia de la Mora

Footnotes

Further reading
 Michael Alpert, The Republican Army in the Spanish Civil War, Cambridge 2013, 
 Carlos Lázaro Avila, Ignacio Hidalgo de Cisneros, General de Brigada, [in:] Javier García Fernandez (ed.), 25 militares de la República, Madrid 2011, , pp. 503–542
 Luis Galán, Después de todo: recuerdos de un periodista de la Pirenaica, Barcelona 1988, 
 Ignacio Hidalgo de Cisneros, Cambio de Rumbo, vol. 1–2, Barcelona 1977, 
 Constancia de la Mora, Doble esplendor, Madrid 2004, 
 Gregorio Morán, Miseria y grandeza del Partido Comunista de España: 1939-1985, Barcelona 1986,

External links
 Fuerzas Aéreas republicanas personel
 documental video trailer
 Hidalgo at Galería de Militares Republicanos
 Cambio de rumbo in full digital version (in Russian)
 aviation during the Second Spanish Republic 
 La Internacional - contemporary communist propaganda
 Viva Cristo Rey - contemporary Carlist propaganda

1896 births
1966 deaths
Carlists
People from Vitoria-Gasteiz
Spanish communists
Spanish diplomats
Spanish emigrants to France
Spanish generals
Spanish memoirists
Spanish military aviators
Spanish military personnel of the Rif War
Spanish military personnel of the Spanish Civil War (Republican faction)
Spanish monarchists
Spanish republicans
Communist Party of Spain politicians
Unión Militar Republicana Antifascista members
People granted political asylum in the Soviet Union
20th-century memoirists