[Source: PubMed]

44. J Migr Health. 2024 Nov 24;11:100284. doi: 10.1016/j.jmh.2024.100284. 
eCollection 2025.

Social connections related to health and well-being needs identified by children 
and adolescents affected by displacement in Lebanon: a participatory research 
study.

Jain T(1), Cooper L(1), Khauli N(1)(2), Pike K(1), Khoury B(3), Hermosilla S(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, 722 W 168th St, New 
York, New York, 10032 USA.
(2)Palo Alto University, 1791 Arastradero Rd, Palo Alto, CA, 94304 USA.
(3)American University of Beirut Medical Center, Riad El Solh, Beirut, 1107 
2020, Lebanon.

INTRODUCTION: The social connections surrounding children and adolescents 
support them in facing challenges and seeking help, ultimately acting as a 
protective factor in their mental, physical, and behavioral health outcomes 
across the life course. In complex contexts of political instability and 
dislocation, these social resources are often fractured, strained, or altogether 
unavailable, which restricts access to essential services and affects outcomes 
for these populations. This study aims to identify, characterize, and visually 
depict social connections related to the health and well-being needs of children 
and adolescents affected by displacement in Lebanon, by pilot testing the 
Participatory Assessment Tool for Mapping Social Connections (PATMSC). We 
hypothesize that this unique methodology will identify and describe different 
social connections by group quickly and efficiently.
METHODS: An initial scoping review of scientific and grey literature followed by 
stakeholder interviews identified nutrition, mental health, and abuse scenarios 
that guided the PATMSC (a mixed- method data collection tool that identifies and 
visualizes types and qualities of social connections) topics. The PATMSC was 
piloted among children, caregivers, and providers affected by displacement in 
Lebanon.
RESULTS: There were seven groups (Syrian children, Syrian adolescents, Syrian 
caregivers, Lebanese/Palestinian children, Lebanese/Palestinian adolescents, 
Lebanese/Palestinian caregivers, and providers) with a total of 42 participants 
across the PATMSC workshops. Syrian children identified the most connections 
across all scenarios (66 nodes) and Lebanese/Palestinian adolescents identified 
the fewest connections across all scenarios (26 nodes). Family and community 
nodes were highly connected across all scenarios. 56% of participants asked 
their family connections for help. Family connections were the most used by 
children (71%) and provider (33%) subgroups. Participants were asked for help by 
family connections the most (59%). Within subgroups, children (84%), 
Lebanese/Palestinian participants (73%), providers (50%), and caregivers (36%) 
were also asked for help by family connections the most.
DISCUSSION: The study highlights that children, adolescents, and their 
caregivers in displaced settings in Lebanon have varied social connections when 
exploring resources related to key areas of concern. Overall, there is an 
importance placed on the role of family members in their social networks. 
However, the social connections and resources available differ depending on the 
circumstances, as evidenced by the variation in connections named across the 
three scenarios. Understanding the components of social networks, what drives 
them, and how they differ by sector, is essential in planning and maintaining 
programs and policies that meet evolving needs in resource-constrained settings.

© 2024 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmh.2024.100284
PMCID: PMC11650324
PMID: 39697585

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following financial 
interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing 
interests: Sabrina Hermosilla reports financial support was provided by National 
Institute for Health Research. If there are other authors, they declare that 
they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that 
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.