[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Indonesian passport

scuss the issue with the German Embassy in Jakarta. However, the German Embassy in Jakarta has stated that it does not recognize an endorsement as a valid replacement of the signature column and is therefore unable to accept passports with such endorsements for the processing of a visa application. 

On 17 August 2022, the German Embassy in Jakarta announced that passports with the addition of an endorsement column by Indonesian immigration authorities can be processed for visa applications. The German Embassy has also appealed to Indonesian passport holders who do not have a signature field and are currently undergoing the visa process to immediately validate the signatures on the endorsement page to the immigration authorities. The German Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs has also coordinated with the German Police at border checks so that Indonesian citizens with passports without a signature column can still travel if they already have a visa.

Starting from October 2022, all newly issued Indonesian passports include columns for the bearer’s signature. Indonesians that receive a new passport should check the document to make sure the signature column is present and that Passport holders who do not have a signature column can process its validation by walking into their local immigration office or Indonesian embassies and consulates overseas. 

On 10 October 2022, the embassy of the Netherlands in Jakarta also announced that the Netherlands (along with Belgium and Luxembourg) will only recognize Indonesian passports for visa applications if they contain a signature endorsement or a signature column.

Identity information page

Information listed: 
 Photograph
 Type (
 Country code (
 Passport number ()
 Sex ()
 Nationality ()
 Date of birth ()
 Place of birth ()
 Date of issue ()
 Date of expiry ()
 Issuing office ()
 Registration number ()
 Machine readable zone

Visa requirements map

Passport power ranking
As of July 2023, Indonesian citizens have visa-free or visa on arrival access to 73 countries and territories, ranking the Indonesian passport 70th in terms of travel freedom according to the Henley Passport Index.

Passport fees

Referring to Government Regulation No. 28/2019, Indonesian passport fees (inclusive of service charges) are:

Payment can be made through banks (internet / mobile banking), ATMs (Bank Mandiri, BNI, BRI, and BCA), mini market (Indomaret), Post Office, and online marketplace (Tokopedia and Bukalapak).

See also
 Paspor Orang Asing
 Surat Perjalanan Laksana Paspor
 List of passports
 Visa requirements for Indonesian citizens
 Visa policy of Indonesia

References

External links

 Directorate General of Immigration of the Republic of Indonesia (English) 
 Indonesian Paspor Online Service

Passports by country
Law of Indonesia
Foreign relations of Indonesia