[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ramat Gan Safari

The Zoological Center Tel Aviv-Ramat Gan (commonly known as the Safari Ramat Gan) in the Tel Aviv District city of Ramat Gan, Israel is the largest collection of wildlife in human care in the Middle East. The 250-acre site consists of both a drive-through African safari area and a modern outdoor zoo. The African animal park opened to the general public in 1974. In 1981, the zoo was established in the middle of the park to replace the Tel Aviv Zoo, which had closed down.

Ramat Gan Safari houses 83 species of mammals, 92 species of birds and 23 species of reptiles. Among other outstanding groups of animals, it has white rhinos, hippos, lions, African and Asian elephants, gorillas, orangutans, and a Komodo dragon. The animals are seen in open air enclosures amid subtropical gardens.

The Ramat Gan Safari has sent animals to the Qalqilya Zoo in the West Bank of the Palestinian territories and maintains close ties with the veterinarians in the Palestinian Authority.

Safari park has more than 700,000 visitors annually.

History

Safari Park
The Safari began as a small children's zoo in the National Park of Ramat Gan in 1958. In the late 1960s, the founding director Mr. Zvi Kirmeyer, was inspired by the novel concept of Safari Parks which were developing around the world during 1966-1974. He convinced the first mayor of Ramat Gan, Avraham Krinitzi, that a drive-through Safari Park in Israel was a viable idea. Following the tragic death of Mayor Krinitzi in an auto accident in 1969, the project continued with the active involvement of the next mayor of Ramat Gan, Dr. Yisrael Peled. Half of the existing National Park in Ramat Gan was dedicated to the new entity called The Zoological Corporation of Ramat Gan (250-acres). The Israeli landscape architect firm Miller-Blum-Lederer designed the park. The animals were supplied by Carr-Hartley from Tanzania, in 1968 and 1972 and included seven African elephants, eight white rhinos, Grant's zebras, Thomson's gazelles, defassa waterbuck, eland, ostriches, Masai giraffe, Grant's gazelles, beisa oryx, dik-diks, Grévy's zebra and De Brazza's monkeys. The drive-through African park opened to the public in 1974 although no formal opening was held due to the Yom Kippur war. 
To this day the drive-through African Safari section, with its large and dynamic mixed herds of 13 species of mammals and birds, is the signature area for the visitor experience.

From the old Tel Aviv Zoo to a new zoo in the Safari

In the late 1970s it was clear that the old Tel Aviv Zoo, founded in 1938 by Rabbi Dr. Mordecai Shorenstein, had to close. Situated adjacent to the City Hall of Tel Aviv, it was a nuisance due to noise, traffic and smell. The physical spaces for the animals were no longer acceptable according to modern zoo practice; the real estate value of the property was great. 
An agreement was reached between the cities of Tel Aviv and Ramat Gan to construct a new zoo within the space of the Zoological Corporation of Ramat Gan, to house the collection from the old Tel Aviv Zoo, thereby concentrating a major animal attraction in one place in the center of Israel. The new administrative entity, the Zoological Center Tel Aviv-Ramat Gan is owned jointly by the two municipalities.  
The design team included the director Mr. Kirmeyer, the architects Miller-Blum-Lederer and external advisor, Professor Lothar Dittrich, director of Hanover Zoo, and was based on the best of European zoo design in the late 1970s. The mild Mediterranean climate enabled the development of large open enclosures amid lush subtropical gardens.
The new zoo within the drive-through African Safari opened in 1981, following two years of construction at a cost of 2.5 million US dollars of that time.

Affiliations
The Safari is a full member of the European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA) since 2007, World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA) since 1990 and a founding member of Israeli Zoo Association (IZA), established in 2002.

Professional staff are members of International Zoo Educators(IZE) and European Association of Zoo Veterinarians (EAZV). The Safari's animals are registered in Zoological Information Management System (ZIMS), the international registry for zoo animals.

Breeding and conservation
The Safari participated in 60 international and local endangered species breeding programs primarily within the European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EEP European Endangered Species Programs, ESB European Studbook programs).