[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nicholas Purcell of Loughmoe

on, and Purcell's Dragoon Regiment had arrived that evening, and listed Purcell's Regiment as composed of 12 troops for a total of 360 men, as recently determined by a review of troops. The regiment may have arrived from Bangor Bay with Brigadier Thomas Maxwell and a force of 500 horse and dragoons.

The planned attack of Dundalk did not materialise, and on 6 October King James' Army fell back on Ardee, which had been converted into a defended frontier position. From Ardee, on 21 October, Comte d'Avaux wrote the French King's Minister of War, Marquis Louvois, that he had been occupied reviewing two or three petty disputes between French and Irish officers, and hoped he had finally put them to rest. The most serious dispute was between a French lieutenant and one of the dragoons from Purcell's Regiment. The French lieutenant had been seriously wounded by the dragoon in the course of an argument, and he could have been arraigned for a military court martial because Purcell had stated he had never seen the lieutenant's commission, although the lieutenant had said he had participated in all the regiment's tests of arms; had served with the regiment as an officer before Derry and Enniskillen, and had habitually bivouacked in the field with the other officers.

The upshot was King James reprimanded the Irish officers who had recommended a court martial, and Comte d'Avaux acknowledging the French lieutenant was inclined to swagger and had a quick temper, sent him to his own quarters where he could care for him and dress his wounds.

Another French lieutenant had served with the regiment at an earlier period, and figured in an episode in 1687. While the regiment was stationed at Cashel, Lieutenant Rene Mezandiere ordered the Deputy Mayor, Charles Robinson, cast into the common prison "a noysome place on Sunday morning." All this occurred on 25 September 1687. The Corporation petitioned the Government "that ye ad Lieut. be effectually prosecuted for ye same." Later, on 27 October 1687, the Corporation records, "The chapter doe wait upon Captain Purcell to acquaint him with the injuries done by the Souldiers to the Cathedral gates, Church yard, and to them that are employed to look after them from harme or trespasses."  One wonders how Colonel Nicholas dealt with this matter.

During the war years, Colonel Purcell's wife and children evidently lived in France. The will of Lieutenant Pierce Power of Thurles, dated 26 June 1689, not only lists the amounts of money owed him by Colonel Purcell, but also mentions the fact his daughter, Cecily, was living with Mary Purcell of Loughmoe.

The following Roster of Officers of the Regiment is taken from various French Muster Rolls of Reviews held in Ireland after the arrival of King James II. The regiment was raised mostly in Tipperary:

 Col. Nicholas Purcell, Commanding Officer,
 Lt. Col. Robert Purcell, Executive,
 Major Charles McDonnel,
 Rev. Delany, Chaplain.
 Troop 1.  Colonel Nicholas Purcell, Lieut. James Fitzgerald, Cornet James Butler of Boytonrath (brother Sir Toby Butler, Solicitor-General), Quartermaster William Barron, and 40 dragoons.
 Troop 2.  Lt. Col. Robert Purcell, Liut. Thomas Purcell, Coronet Anthony Purcell, Quartermaster Daniel Quinn, and 45 dragoons.
 Troop 3. Capt. Sir John Everard of Fethard (Cousin of Col. Purcell and brother-in-law of Capt. James Butler), Lieut. Michael Kerny, Cornet Thomas Travers, Quartermaster James Tumy, and 31 dragoons.
 Troop 4. Capt. Miles Bourk, Lieut. Cornelius Meagher, Cornet Bryan Meagher, Quartermaster John Fitzgerald, and 31 dragoons.
 Troop 5. Capt. Daniel McCarthy, Liet. Pierce Power of Thurles, Cornet Owen McCarthy, Quartermaster Edmund Meagher, and 36 dragoons.
 Troop 6. Capt. Anthony Morres, Lieut. John Kennedy, Cornet Hugh Kennedy, Quartermaster Richard Keating and 25 dragoons.
 Troop 7. Capt. John Purcell of Coneby, Kilkenny, Lieut. Theobald Purcell of Moyarde (member of the Peace Party), Cornet Hugh Purcell, Quartermaster James Wale, and 21 dragoons.
 Troop 8. Capt. James Butler of Grangebeg (later, 6th Baron Dunboyne), Lieut. Theobald Butler of Culecullenduff (Capt.John Purcell named executor of his will 14 December 1698), Cornet Thomas Meagh, and 31 dragoons.
 Troop 9.  Capt. Condon, Lieut. Fitzgerald, Cornet Maly and 36 dragoons.
 Troop 10. Capt. Cantwell, Lieut. Condon, Cornet Hurly, and 36 dragoons.
 Troop 11. Capt. Edward Morres, Lieut. Ryan, Cornet Keating, and 44 dragoons.
 Troop 12.  Capt. Tobin, Lieut. Butler, Cornet Meyrick, and 44 dragoons. The Regiment probably averaged 420 dragoons and 45 officers.

During the winter of 1689 the regiment was engaged in skirmishes on the frontier, mostly around Belturbet.