[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 20]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

sharing it with his friend. In this savage
state of hospitality did the man continue to live during the space of
several months; at length, wandering unguardedly through the woods, he
met with a company of soldiers sent out to apprehend him, and was by
them taken prisoner and conducted back to his master. The laws of that
country being very severe against slaves, he was tried and found guilty
of having fled from his master, and, as a punishment for his pretended
crime, he was sentenced to be torn in pieces by a furious lion, kept
many days without food, to inspire him with additional rage.

"When the destined moment arrived, the unhappy man was exposed, unarmed,
in the midst of a spacious area, enclosed on every side, round which
many thousand people were assembled to view the mournful spectacle.

"Presently a dreadful yell was heard, which struck the spectators with
horror; and a monstrous lion rushed out of a den, which was purposely
set open, and darted forward with erected mane and flaming eyes, and
jaws that gaped like an open sepulchre. A mournful silence instantly
prevailed! All eyes were directly turned upon the destined victim, whose
destruction now appeared inevitable. But the pity of the multitude was
soon converted into astonishment, when they beheld the lion, instead of
destroying his defenceless prey, crouch submissively at his feet, fawn
upon him as a faithful dog would do upon his master, and rejoice over
him as a mother that unexpectedly recovers her offspring. The governor
of the town, who was present, then called out with a loud voice, and
ordered Androcles to explain to them this unintelligible mystery, and
how a savage of the fiercest and most unpitying nature should thus in a
moment have forgotten his innate disposition, and be converted into a
harmless and inoffensive animal.

"Androcles then related to the assembly every circumstance of his
adventures in the woods, and concluded by saying, that the very lion
which now stood before them had been his friend and entertainer in the
woods. All the persons present were astonished and delighted with the
story, to find that even the fiercest beasts are capable of being
softened by gratitude, and moved by humanity; and they unanimously
joined to entreat for the pardon of the unhappy man from the governor of
the place. This was immediately granted to him; and he was also
presented with the lion, who had in this manner twice saved the life of
Androcles."

"Upon my word," said Tommy, "this is a very pretty story; but I never
should have thought that a lion could have grown so tame: I thought that
they, and tigers, and wolves, had been so fierce and cruel that they
would have torn everything they met to pieces."

"When they are hungry," said Mr Barlow, "they kill every animal they
meet; but this is to devour it, for they can only live upon flesh, like,
dogs and cats, and many other kinds of animals. When they are not hungry
they seldom meddle with anything, or do unnecessary mischief; therefore
they are much less cruel than many persons that I have seen, and even
than many children, who plague and torment animals, without any reason
whatsoever."

"Indeed, sir," said Harry, "I think so. And I remember, as I was walking
along the road some days past, I saw a little naughty boy that used a
poor jackass very ill indeed. The poor animal was so lame that he could
hardly stir; and yet the boy beat him with a great stick as violently as
he was able, to make him go on faster." "And what did you say to him?"
said Mr Barlow. _Harry._--Why, sir, I told him how naughty and cruel it
was; and I asked him how he would like to be beaten in that manner by
somebody that was stronger than himself? _Mr B._--And what answer did he
make you? _H._--He said, that it was his daddy's ass, and so that he had
a right to beat it; and that if I said a word more he would beat me. _Mr
B._--And what answer did you make; any? _H._--I told him, if it was his
father's ass, he should not use it ill; for that we were all God's
creatures, and that we should love each other, as He loved us all; and
that as to beating me, if he struck me I had a right to strike him
again, and would do it, though he was almost as big again as I was. _Mr
B._--And did he strike you? _H._--Yes, sir. He endeavoured to strike me
upon the head with his stick, but I dodged, and so it fell upon my
shoulder; and he was going to strike me again, but I darted at him, and
knocked him down, and then he began blubbering, and begged me not to
hurt him. _Mr B._--It is not uncommon for those who are most cruel to be
at the same time most cowardly; but what did you? _H._--Sir, I told him
I did not want to hurt him; but that as he had meddled with me, I would
not let him rise till he had promised not to hurt the poor beast any
more, which he did, and then I let him go about his business.

"You did very right," said Mr Barlow; "and I suppose the