[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# HMCS Canada

CGS Canada was a patrol vessel, sometimes referred to as a cruiser, in the Fisheries Protection Service of Canada, an enforcement agency that was part of the Department of Marine and Fisheries. Canada is considered to be the nucleus of the Royal Canadian Navy for her role in training Canadian naval officers and asserting Canadian sovereignty. Canada saw service in the First World War and was commissioned into the Royal Canadian Navy as HMCS Canada during that conflict. Following the war, the vessel was sold for commercial use and renamed MV Queen of Nassau. On the verge of being sold again, the ship sank in Straits of Florida on 2 July 1926.

Description
Canada was  long as ordered, but ended up  long. The ship had a beam of  and a draught of . Canada had a ram bow. The ship had a tonnage of  and a displacement of . The ship was propelled by two shafts powered by a triple expansion steam engine rated at . The ship's maximum speed is different among the sources, ranging from as low as  to as high as . The ship could carry  of coal for fuel. The ship was initially fitted with four 3-pounder guns. For naval service, the ship was rearmed with two 12-pounder and two 3-pounder guns. Canada was fitted with a Marconi wireless, a device just being installed aboard much larger British warships at the time.

Service history

Civilian service
As part of Prime Minister Sir Wilfrid Laurier's efforts to relieve Great Britain's overall commitment to North American defence in the wake of the Boer War, the Laurier government sought to develop the Fisheries Protection Service. As part of this effort, the government ordered a patrol ship in 1903–1904 for service on the East Coast of Canada. Canada was laid down by Vickers, Sons & Maxim at their shipyard in Barrow-in-Furness, England and launched on 15 June 1904. The ship was completed in July that year. Canada arrived at Quebec City on 29 September after undergoing a two-week inspection at Gaspé, Quebec. The ship then sailed for Halifax, Nova Scotia to install the Marconi wireless and more sea trials. 

In January 1905, with naval militia recruits aboard, the ship was sent to the Caribbean Sea to join Royal Navy naval exercises there. Canadas participation in Royal Navy fleet exercises in 1905 is considered by some to be the beginnings of Canada's naval activity. The patrol vessel's planned Caribbean cruise in 1907 was cancelled due to personnel requirements. In 1908, the Canadian government sought to build a naval militia around Canada. This was soon put off as the department came under investigation.</ref> That year Canada took part in Quebec City's tercentenary celebrations.

In 1908, Canada became a training ship for officer cadets for the planned Canadian navy. Thus CGS Canada became Canada's first naval training ship and was, as stated by naval historians in Canada, the "Flagship of the embryonic Canadian Navy at the time, symbolic of the evolution of Canada from a dominion within the British Empire to a sovereign nation." In 1909, the Fisheries crew was removed from the ship and volunteers from the Royal Navy Reserve were brought aboard to provide a higher level of naval training. However, Canada continued to be used as a fisheries patrol vessel. In 1910, the Canadian navy was formed Canada escorted one of the nation's newly acquired cruisers, , into Halifax Harbour, with the new navy's cadets and the Director of the Naval Service, Rear Admiral Charles Kingsmill, aboard.

HMCS Canada

After the First World War broke out in August 1914, Canada was transferred to the Royal Canadian Navy on 4 August. The ship then underwent a refit that rearmed her with more powerful weaponry and raised Canadas forecastle. The ship was commissioned as HMCS Canada on 25 January 1915 and served on the Atlantic coast as an anti-submarine patrol vessel. In June 1915, Canada escorted four H-class submarines from Quebec City to Newfoundland. In July 1915, Canada with , escorted two troopships through the Gulf of St. Lawrence. However, both ships needed long refits afterwards and did not return to service until September. By 1917, Canadas boilers were worn out and needed replacement. On 6 December 1917 she was one of the ships anchored at HMC Dockyard in Halifax Harbour during the Halifax Explosion. She suffered minor damage and one crew member was seriously injured. In 1918, Canada was among the Canadian naval vessels used to escort convoys from Quebec City through the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Following the end of the war, HMCS Canada was decommissioned in November 1919.