[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sebastian Doggart

awards on the festival circuit, screened at the Cannes Film Festival, and was critically acclaimed. By combining screenings of the film with public debates about its subject, Condoleezza Rice's record in office, Doggart fueled calls for Rice to be investigated for human rights abuses and war crimes.

In 2009, Doggart directed and produced another film about Rice, American Faust: From Condi to Neo-Condi. This investigative documentary explored in greater depth Rice's pursuit and alleged misuse of power, and revealed the direct role she had in fabricating reasons for going to war in Iraq, and in ordering torture, especially in CIA black sites around the world. The film won numerous awards on the festival circuit, and was broadcast on a raft of international stations, including Al-Jazeera.

In 2012, he completed a third feature film, True Bromance, an irreverent romantic comedy starring Jim Norton, Adrian Grenier, Frank Luntz, Devin Ratray and himself about the absurd role friends and family play when people fall in love. The film won 19 awards on the festival circuit, including Best Film at the Harlem International Film Festival, and Best Actor and Best Screenplay at the Washington DC International Film Festival. 'The Brooklyn Paper' described it as "a bromance for the ages." ‘The Brooklyn Eagle’ wrote: "Starring possibly the most surreal comedy troupe ever... True Bromance is consistently unnerving, funny and surprising and features an original comic-book style".

Doggart has written two other screenplays, Casanova's Return and Clinton a Neuro-Musical.

He is a voting member of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences and of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts.

Political and human rights career
In 1993, Doggart led an Amnesty International campaign called Why the Silence? to investigate human rights abuses in Equatorial Guinea.

In 1997, Doggart was a campaign manager on Martin Bell's successful bid to become the first Independent MP to be elected to the British Parliament since 1945.

In 2000, Doggart co-founded the Felices Los Normales program at the Gaia arts center in Havana, Cuba, raising awareness about HIV/AIDS through improvised theater.

From 2009-10, Doggart used the release of his documentary American Faust: From Condi to Neo-Condi to launch a campaign to bring to justice officials in the Bush Administration whom contributors in the film – including attorneys from the American Civil Rights Union, Amnesty International and Reprieveallege are guilty of war crimes and torture. Amnesty International screened the film at Stanford University on the eve of Rice's return to the Hoover Institution, adding to pressure on Stanford authorities to expel her for allegedly dishonoring the college's Fundamental Standard to show "respect for order, morality, personal honor and the rights of others as is demanded of good citizens." Doggart teamed up with students at the University of Denver, where Rice was an undergraduate, by organizing a debate on the motion 'This house believes that Condoleezza Rice should stand trial for war crimes.' Proposing the motion was Rice's political theory professor, Alan Gilbert; defending Rice was Republican State Senator Sean Mitchell. The event met fierce resistance from the University administration. Vice Chancellor Jim Berscheidt had already tried to shut down a shoot and denied the producers access to archive of Josef Korbel. Up until the last moment, Berscheidt sought to use bureaucratic obstacles and alleged intimidation of students to stop the event. However, the screening and debate did eventually take place, with a strong turn-out, and webcast on both Mogulus television  and through the Amnesty International website.