[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of social nudity places in North America

ci
 Couples Tower Isle (nude island)
 Hedonism II in Negril
 Negril Cabins Resort
 Rolcata Resort & Spa
 Sandals Royal Caribbean (backside of private island)
 Seven Mile Beach, Negril
 Sunset Beach Resort & Spa
 Nude Lun Park
 Grand Bahia Principe has a nude section at the back of the resort

Mexico

Beach nudity in Playa Zipolite, Mexico is legal.  Elsewhere, Mexican law condemns only "immorality" and thus the issue ends up being a matter of the judge's criteria.

Zipolite, Oaxaca 
 As of 2016, Playa Zipolite is Mexico's first legal nude beach.  A "free beach" and unofficially nudist for more than 30 years, this beach is reputed to be the best place for nudism in the country.  The numerous nudists, and the long tradition, make it safe for nudism and naturism.  Annually since 2016, on the first weekend of February, Zipolite has hosted Festival Nudista Zipolite organized by the Federación Nudista de México.
 Hotel Nude is Zipolite's first nude-optional resort/hotel.
 CAMP - opening in 2021, it will be an au naturel hostel and gathering center for communities of 50-100 (also located in Zipolite) with cabañas, a dormitory, and typical amenities.

Tulum, Playa del Carmen, Quintana Roo 
 The Intima Resort (formerly Mak Nuk) is a nude resort in the town of Tulum.  It is not located on the beach but nude sunbathing is accessible in the biosphere area close to the resort.
 AZULIK is a clothing optional resort in Tulum. Beside Papaya Playa Project, its beach is accessible for nude sunbathing.
 Playa del Carmen, Quintana Roo, has a beach in town located near the Cozumel ferry terminal that allows topless sunbathing, at least informally. Within Playa del Carmen, there's a strip of beach called Kentenah which hosts some secluded resorts such as Hidden Beach that is designed for nudists. Some topless sunbathing also occurs at Tulum, although not as commonly as in Playa del Carmen. There are also adult lifestyle hotels like Desire and Desire Pearl.
 Isla Mujeres, Quintana Roo, has beach areas where topless sunbathing occurs, especially at Playa Norte. Nude bathers are advised to use caution as local police do issue citations.

Puerto Vallarta, Jalisco 
 Destilerías, Nayarit, north of Puerto Vallarta, and just north of Bucerías, Nayarit, has a beach where nudism is "tolerated".

Dutch Antilles

Bonaire 
 Sorobon Resort on Bonaire used to be a naturist resort, but since 2011, after change of ownership it switched to a family and Wellness oriented approach.

Curaçao 
Curaçao has no legal nude beaches at this time.
 The Natural Curaçao is a clothing optional mini-resort in Willemstad that also offers boat trips.
 There are also several beaches on the west end of the island that are okay with topless sunbathing.

Sint Maarten 
The island of St Martin has a Dutch side, Sint Maarten, and a French side, Saint Martin. Orient Bay on the French side has a nudist section. Club Orient, a family-friendly clothing-optional beach resort, is on Orient Bay.

Panama
 Isla Contadora (especially at Playa de las Suecas) in the Pearl Islands

St. Lucia
 Ladera Resort

Trinidad and Tobago
 Number Five, Trinidad - members-only nudist club
 Back Bay, Tobago - nude bathing is practiced (illegally)

United States
Additional and up-to-date information on public and private locations may be obtained on the web sites of the American Association for Nude Recreation (AANR) and The Naturist Society (TNS).

Alabama 
 Bluff Creek Falls Campground Steele, Alabama
 Gymno-Vita Park is a  AANR affiliated campground for couples and families only near Pell City
 Camp Rock Bottom in Sand Rock
 Parksland Retreat in Talledega, Alabama

Permanently Closed Nudity Places:
 Black Bear Camp in Waverly {CLOSED}
 The ReTreat in Horton {CLOSED}
 Spring Creek Campground & Resort in Geneva {CLOSED}

Alaska
Public nudity is illegal in Alaska (no social places). Toplessness is legal when practiced without the intention of offending others.