[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hedrick Smith

reporting and analysis on the causes of sharply rising economic inequality in the United States and its increasingly dysfunctional political system as well as efforts to restore greater fairness, transparency and inclusion in both the American economy and American politics.

Television productions 

In 1989-90, Smith converted his best-selling book, The Power Game, into a four-hour documentary series giving his inside analysis of how power politics work - or don’t work - in Washington and launched a 25-year television production career that generated 26 prime-time specials and mini-series for PBS.

Smith followed up with a pioneering PBS four-hour documentary series Inside Gorbachev’s USSR, exploiting his knowledge of Russia history and his ability to conduct TV interviews in Russian to get American television’s first broad inside look at Gorbachev’s perestroika reform campaign. That series won the prestigious Columbia- Dupont Gold Baton, or grand prize, for the best public affairs program on U.S. television in 1991. Smith has won all of television’s major awards with other PBS programs. He earned national Emmys for The Wall Street Fix (2003) and Can You Afford to Retire? (2006) which he created for PBS Frontline. Two more of his programs won Emmy nominations - Critical Condition (2000), a three-hour examination of the U.S. health care system, and Tax Me If You Can (2004), a one-hour investigation of the tax dodges of corporations and the wealthy. In 2002, Smith shared the prestigious duPont-Columbia Gold Baton for Inside the Terror Network, his in-depth account of the al Qaeda bombers organizing, training and preparing for their attack on the U.S. on September 11, 2001.

Coupled with Frontline investigative exposes like Bigger Than Enron (2002), Is Wal-Mart Good for America? (2004) Spying on the Home Front (2007), and Poisoned Waters (2009), one distinctive feature of Smith’s television reporting is his focus not just on examining problems but in Seeking Solutions (1999), his mini-series on teen violence and hate crime, used by the Justice Department and Congressional committees; Making Schools Work (2005), a two-hour special on effective educational programs boosting student success; and Surviving the Bottom Line (1998) a four-hour report comparing the fairness of America’s economy with Germany, Japan and China.

Those programs earned Smith and his production team public service awards from the Sidney Hillman foundation and from Sigma Delta Chi, the national honor society of journalists.

His most recent PBS documentary The Democracy Rebellion (2020) shows how grass roots citizen movements have challenged entrenched politicians and power brokers to win election law reforms against dark money, gerrymandering or vote suppression and to make America’s broken democracy fairer, more open and more inclusive. It is now featured 24/7 on Smith’s YouTube channel, "The People vs the Politicians.”   

Over 25 years, PBS viewers also came to know Hedrick Smith as a regular panelist on Washington Week in Review and as a special correspondent for The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer.

Awards, honors, and organizations
Smith received a Fulbright Scholarship to study Politics, Philosophy, and Economics (PPE) at Oxford University in 1955. In 1969, he won a Nieman Fellowship to study at Harvard University, concentrating in Russian studies.

In 1971, he was a member of the team that won the Pulitzer Prize for its work on the Pentagon Papers. He won the Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting in 1974 for stories from Russia and Eastern Europe.

Smith has also won many television awards. His Frontline shows, The Wall Street Fix and Can You Afford to Retire? won Emmys and two other awards and his Frontline shows, Critical Condition and Tax Me If You Can were nominated. He has won or shared the Columbia-Dupont Gold Baton for the year's best public affairs program on U.S. television twice. He has also won the George Polk, George Peabody and Hillman awards for his excellence in reporting along with two national public service awards.

Smith is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the Gridiron Club.

List of PBS productions
Smith has produced 24 programs and miniseries, four one-hour PBS specials, 11 Frontline productions, and nine NewsHour segments. His most recent work, the feature-length documentary "The Democracy Rebellion," is featured on his YouTube channel. 
 
PBS programs, specials, and miniseries