[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mattia Battistini

o Italian singing practice of the early-to-mid-19th century (the era of Gaetano Donizetti and Vincenzo Bellini)—as well as exemplifying the "grand manner" style of vocalism for which much Romantic operatic music was written. Battistini delivers this kind of music in a virile, bold and patrician way.

He is not averse, however, to show off his voice by prolonging top notes or embellishing the written score with a liberality that might surprise 21st-century listeners who are imbued with the modern notion that a composer's work is sacrosanct. For some inexplicable reason, he eschews on disc one of the key vocal ornaments at the disposal of all thoroughly schooled 19th-century bel canto singers: the trill.

Perhaps Battistini's most historically illuminating recording is that of "Non mi ridestar", the Italian version of "Pourquoi me reveiller", a tenor aria from Massenet's Werther. Massenet transposed the protagonist's role downwards for baritone in a special version made especially for Battistini, harking back to an age when composers tailored their musical parts to fit the talents of one singer, and a singer of Battistini's stature could make almost any modifications seem acceptable. For those listeners sampling Battistini's discography for the first time, his touchstone recorded performances include versions of arias from Don Sebastiano, Macbeth, Don Carlos, Tannhäuser and L'Africana—plus a scintillating series of excerpts of Don Carlo's scenes from Ernani, arguably his greatest part, which he committed to wax in 1906. For an evaluation of Battistini's technique, style and legacy on disc, see his entry in Volume One of Michael Scott's survey The Record of Singing (published by Duckworth, London, 1977, ).

Bibliography

Elsa Boscardini, of the Istituto Eugenio Cirese in Rieti, has published a number of pamphlets about Battistini, namely:
Mattia Battistini, breve profilo storico-biografico (1980);
L'arte di Mattia Battistini (1981);
Mattia Battistini entusiasma le platee umbre (1993);
Mattia Battistini, il favorito di Pietroburgo (1994);
Mattia Battistini, interprete delle melodie di Donizetti (1998); plus
Dolores Figueroa y Solís, la esposa de Mattia Battistini (written in Spanish and illustrated).

See also the following books:

Celletti, Rodolfo (1996): The History of Bel Canto. Oxford & London, Oxford University Press;

Celletti, Rodolfo (1964): Le grandi voci. Rome, Istituto per la collaborazione culturale;

Chuilon, Jacques (1996): Battistini Le Dernier Divo. Paris, Romillat, AND, an English-language edition of Chuilon's detailed book, translated by E. Thomas Glasow, with a new preface by Thomas Hampson, and including a CD with 19 titles, and numerous rare photos from Chuilon's private collection, namely, Chuilon, Jacques (April 2009): Mattia Battistini, King of Baritones and Baritone of Kings, Lanham, MD, USA, Scarecrow Press ;

Fracassini, G. (1914): Mattia Battistini. Milano, Barbini;

Karl Josef Kutsch and Leo Riemens, editors (2000): Großes Sängerlexikon Basel, Saur;

Lancellotti, A (1942): Le voci d' oro. Rome, Palombi;

Monaldi, G (1929): Cantanti Celebri. Rome, Tiber; and

Palmeggiani, Francesco (1977): Mattia Battistini, il re dei baritoni Milano, Stampa d' Oggi Editrice, 1949 (reprinted with discography, W.R. Moran, editor, New York, Arno Press).

References

External links
 History of the Tenor / Mattia Battistini / Sound Clips and Narration 1989

1856 births
1928 deaths
Italian operatic baritones
People from the Province of Rieti
19th-century Italian male opera singers
20th-century Italian male opera singers
Accademia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia alumni