[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Samuel Gibbs French

ch near Quantico, Virginia.

From July 21, 1862 to June, 1863, he commanded the Department of North Carolina and Southern Virginia. He oversaw improvements to Fort Fisher and built Fort St. Philips (later renamed Fort Anderson) in Brunswick Town, North Carolina to protect Wilmington, North Carolina.

On October 22, 1862, French was promoted major general with seniority backdated to August 31. He commanded a brigade and a division under Major General Daniel Harvey Hill at Petersburg, Virginia. He built the fortifications around Petersburg that were regarded as a model of defensive warfare and held off the Army of the Potomac for nine months. He led attacks against Harrison's Landing on July 4, 1862 and Suffolk, Virginia on September 22, 1862. In the first letter to French after the Civil War, former West Point classmate, Union General Rufus Ingalls wrote to French about the Harrison's Landing bombardment; "You don't know, dear Sam, how near you came to killing me that night, which, had it happened, would have been a great sorrow to you." In April 1863, French led a division under Lieutenant General James Longstreet in the Siege of Suffolk. 

French's troops were at the Battle of Suffolk (Hill's Point), but he declined to attack Fort Huger since he believed the Union commander would quickly vacate the fort since he had no military support. Longstreet censured French's actions at Suffolk and tried to have him removed from command but Jefferson Davis vetoed the action. French was on medical leave in Columbus, Georgia and Warm Springs, Arkansas due to the lingering effects of dysentery from August 4 to October 1863.

French moved to the Western Theater and commanded a division in Jackson, Mississippi during General Joseph E. Johnston's Jackson Expedition to relieve the Siege of Vicksburg.  Johnston initially expressed concern to Jefferson Davis that French's Northern heritage would make it difficult for the troops to accept him. Davis dismissed this concern and reminded Johnston that French was a wealthy plantation owner in Mississippi and served in the state militia after secession. French served under Lieutenant General Leonidas Polk in Mississippi during the retreat from Jackson from December 1863 to May 1864. He was officially attached to the Army of Tennessee on May 18, 1864. He fought in the Atlanta Campaign including the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain from May to September 1864.

French served in the Franklin–Nashville Campaign. After Atlanta capitulated on October 5, 1864, Hood ordered French and his division to capture Altoona Pass and break the line of communications for Sherman's army. At the Battle of Allatoona, French was unable to capture the pass, which was guarded by a federal garrison under Brigadier General John M. Corse. The fierce fighting concluded when federal reinforcements arrived, forcing French’s troops to retreat to New Hope Church and rejoin the Army of Tennessee. Two of French's brigades suffered enormous losses in the Battle of Franklin with more than 1/3 of the troops being killed, wounded or missing. French suffered an eye infection that rendered him nearly blind and he relinquished command to Claudius W. Sears before the Battle of Nashville. He returned home to recuperate from December 16, 1864 to February 1865. He returned to active service and commanded forces in the defense of Mobile, Alabama.

Postbellum life

He surrendered near Mobile, Alabama and in April, 1865, French was paroled at Columbus, Georgia. His service in both the Mexican-American War and the Civil War resulted in his participation in thirty-five combat engagements. He returned to his plantation in Mississippi and worked for several years as Mississippi State levee commissioner. He lived for a year in Woodbury, New Jersey when he worked as president of a railroad company. He lived in Columbus, Georgia for several years and moved to Winter Park, Florida in 1881 after investing in orange groves. In 1895, he moved to Pensacola, Florida to live near his daughter.

In 1898, at the age of 79, he volunteered to serve in the Spanish-American War but his offer was refused by President William McKinley.

In 1901, he published his memoirs, Two Wars. In his book, he criticized Governor John J. Pettus and Confederate generals William J. Hardee, Hood and Leonidas Polk. French placed the blame for the Civil War on the greed of the North. He believed that the North should have compensated Southern states for their slaves when slavery was abolished. He believed that one day, impartial historians would vindicate the South.

French was married to his first wife, Eliza Matilda Roberts of Mississippi, on April 26, 1853. Together they had a daughter and a son who died in childbirth along with Eliza on June 13, 1857. French was married again to Mary Fontaine Abercrombie of Alabama on 12 January 1865 but she too died, on 16 May 1900 at Atlanta, Georgia. Together they had three children.

Death and legacy