[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Expulsion of Muslims from the Northern Province of Sri Lanka

rossfire between the LTTE and the army, and some were killed and injured.

Most of the Muslims were resettled in Puttalam district, though the Jaffna Muslim refugees can be found in other parts of Sri Lanka as well.

Tareek, a former resident of Jaffna, recounted the expulsion as follows:

Aftermath

Apologies and resettlement by LTTE
The expulsion still carries bitter memories amongst Sri Lanka's Muslims. In a press conference in Kilinochchi in 2002, the LTTE negotiator and political strategist Anton Balasingham appeared alongside the LTTE leader Vellupillai Prabhakaran and explained that they had already apologized to the Muslims and that the Tamil homeland also belonged to the Muslim people. Balasingham also expressed that the expulsion of the Muslims from Jaffna was a political blunder which could not be justified and said that the LTTE leadership would be willing to re-settle them in the northern district. There has been a stream of Muslims travelling to and from Jaffna since the ceasefire. Some families have returned and the re-opened Osmaniya College now has 450 students enrolled. 11 Mosques are functioning again. According to a Jaffna Muslim source, there is a floating population of about 2000 Muslims in Jaffna. Around 1500 are Jaffna Muslims, while the rest are Muslim traders from other areas. About 10 Muslim shops are functioning and the numbers are thought to have grown. Harassment of Muslims in LTTE-held areas continued in the East such as putting up signs in Muslim villages demanding Muslims to leave "Tamil territory" and Muslim refugees fleeing the conflict in 2006 were channeled through LTTE checkpoints where they were abducted or executed.

Sri Lanka's largest Tamil party the Tamil National Alliance also condemned it during the ceremony held in Colombo 2015 to mark the completion of 25 years since Muslims were evicted from the North. TNA Parliamentarian M.A. Sumanthiran criticized the silence of Tamil people when it happened.

Hindrances for the return of internally displaced individuals to their traditional lands

On October 10, 2012, the government of Sri Lanka published several gazettes that effectively expanded the Wilpattu National Park's boundary to include northern provinces' regions. The original boundary of the park had enclosed the Puttalam District in the south and Anuradhapura District in the east. However, this expansion of the boundary prevented many people from returning to their homes and traditional lands within the newly designated park boundaries. The move was made under section 3 of the Forest Conservation Ordinance, chapter 451.

See also
 List of attacks attributed to the LTTE
 Expulsion of non-resident Tamils from Colombo
 Kattankudy mosque massacre
 Persecution of Muslims

References

External links
Essay - "Muslims have a right to know from the LTTE leadership"

Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam
Human rights abuses in Sri Lanka
Ethnic cleansing in Asia
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam attacks in Eelam War II
Anti-Islam sentiment in Sri Lanka