[Source: PubMed]

60. Vaccine. 2013 Apr 18;31 Suppl 2:B103-7. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.11.088.

Applying an equity lens in the Decade of Vaccines.

Brearley L(1), Eggers R, Steinglass R, Vandelaer J.

Author information:
(1)Save the Children UK, 1 St. John's Lane, London EC1M 4AR, United Kingdom. 
l.brearley@savethechildren.org.uk

Addressing inequities in immunisation must be the main priority for the Decade 
of Vaccines. Children who remain unreached are those who need vaccination - and 
other health services - most. Reaching these children and other underserved 
target groups will require a reorientation of current approaches and resource 
allocation. At the country level, evidence-based and context-specific strategies 
must be developed to promote equity in ways that strengthen the system that 
facilitates vaccination, are sustainable and extend benefits across the life 
cycle. At the global level, more attention must go on ensuring sustainable and 
affordable supply for low- and middle-income countries to vaccine products that 
are appropriate for the contexts where needs are greatest. Finally, data must be 
disaggregated and used at all levels to monitor and guide progress to reach the 
unreached.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.11.088
PMID: 23598470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Bull World Health Organ. 2000;78(3):330-8.

Eradication of poliomyelitis in countries affected by conflict.

Tangermann RH(1), Hull HF, Jafari H, Nkowane B, Everts H, Aylward RB.

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

The global initiative to eradicate poliomyelitis is focusing on a small number 
of countries in Africa (Angola, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia, 
Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan) and Asia (Afghanistan, Tajikistan), where progress 
has been hindered by armed conflict. In these countries the disintegration of 
health systems and difficulties of access are major obstacles to the 
immunization and surveillance strategies necessary for polio eradication. In 
such circumstances, eradication requires special endeavours, such as the 
negotiation of ceasefires and truces and the winning of increased direct 
involvement by communities. Transmission of poliovirus was interrupted during 
conflicts in Cambodia, Colombia, El Salvador, Peru, the Philippines, and Sri 
Lanka. Efforts to achieve eradication in areas of conflict have led to extra 
health benefits: equity in access to immunization, brought about because every 
child has to be reached; the revitalization and strengthening of routine 
immunization services through additional externally provided resources; and the 
establishment of disease surveillance systems. The goal of polio eradication by 
the end of 2000 remains attainable if supplementary immunization and 
surveillance can be accelerated in countries affected by conflict.

PMCID: PMC2560710
PMID: 10812729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]