[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Unionist Party (United States)

Franklin Loan was elected to the 38th United States Congress.

Union or Unionist parties existed in other Northern states as well. In the 1862 Connecticut gubernatorial election, a fusion ticket of Republicans and War Democrats was nominated by the "Union Party of Connecticut" for all state offices.

Diffusion and decline
A similar movement was underway in Maryland, where its leaders also advocated the immediate emancipation of all slaves in the state without compensation to the slave owners. With the help of the federal government and its troops, Maryland's secessionist voices were stilled. The party was not formalized until summer 1863 when adherents worked to elect pro-Union candidates at the state and local level, particularly in Western Maryland. Because Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation only applied to slaves in those states in rebellion and did not include border states such as Maryland, the party shifted its emphasis to the question of freeing slaves locally. The Conservative Union State Central Committee, led by Thomas Swann and John P. Kennedy, met in Baltimore on December 16, 1863. It passed a resolution supporting immediate emancipation "in the manner easiest for master and slave". Supporters included the local military commander, Robert C. Schenck. When the Federal government failed to respond, the Unconditional Union policy held a second similar meeting on April 6, 1864 and again overwhelmingly supported immediate emancipation. General Schenk's replacement, Lew Wallace, supported the resolution.

Lists of Unionists
The lists below are of Senators and Representatives elected as Unionist during the Civil War.
 Union Party Senators:
 Lemuel J. Bowden
 Benjamin Gratz Brown
 John Snyder Carlile
 John Creswell
 Garrett Davis
 John Brooks Henderson
 Thomas Holliday Hicks
 Reverdy Johnson
 Waitman Thomas Willey
 Robert Wilson
 Peter G. Van Winkle
 Joseph Albert Wright
 Union Party Representatives:
 Lucien Anderson
 Jacob B. Blair
 Henry Taylor Blow
 Sempronius H. Boyd
 George Washington Bridges
 William Gay Brown, Sr.
 George H. Browne
 Charles Benedict Calvert
 Samuel L. Casey
 Brutus J. Clay
 Andrew Jackson Clements
 John Woodland Crisfield
 John Jordan Crittenden
 Henry W. Davis
 Thomas Treadwell Davis
 Ebenezer Dumont
 George W. Dunlap
 George Purnell Fisher
 Benjamin Franklin Flanders
 Henry Grider
 Michael Hahn
 William Augustus Hall
 Aaron Harding
 Richard Almgill Harrison
 Chester D. Hubbard
 James Streshly Jackson
 Austin Augustus King
 Samuel Knox
 George Robert Latham
 Cornelius Lawrence Ludlow Leary
 Benjamin F. Loan
 Robert Mallory
 Henry May
 Horace Maynard
 Joseph W. McClurg
 Samuel McKee
 Lewis McKenzie
 John William Menzies
 Thomas Amos Rogers Nelson
 John William Noell
 Charles E. Phelps
 William H. Randall
 James S. Rollins
 Lovell Rousseau
 Joseph Segar
 Green Clay Smith
 Nathaniel B. Smithers
 Benjamin Franklin Thomas
 Francis Thomas
 Charles Horace Upton
 William H. Wadsworth
 Edwin Hanson Webster
 Kellian Van Rensalear Whaley
 George Helm Yeaman

Electoral history

Presidential elections

Congressional elections

See also
 Anthony Kennedy, a Senator from Maryland
 Southern Unionist

References

Notes
 Silbey, Joel H., A Respectable Minority: The Democratic Party in the Civil War Era, 1860–1868. New York: W.W. Norton, (1977).
 Harding, Samuel B., Life of George R. Smith, Founder of Sedalia, Mo. Sedalia, Missouri: Privately printed, 1904.
 Small, Albion W., "The Beginnings of American Nationality." Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and Political Science, Eighth Series. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 1890. 
 Willoughby, William F., "State Activities in Relation to Labor in the United States," Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and Political Science, Vol. XIX. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 1901.

External links

 
Political parties in the United States
Unionism