[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Combination

umber of such k-multisubsets is denoted by

a notation that is analogous to the binomial coefficient which counts k-subsets. This expression, n multichoose k, can also be given in terms of binomial coefficients:

This relationship can be easily proved using a representation known as stars and bars. 

A solution of the above Diophantine equation can be represented by  stars, a separator (a bar), then  more stars, another separator, and so on. The total number of stars in this representation is k and the number of bars is n - 1 (since a separation into n parts needs n-1 separators). Thus, a string of k + n - 1 (or n + k - 1) symbols (stars and bars) corresponds to a solution if there are k stars in the string. Any solution can be represented by choosing k out of  positions to place stars and filling the remaining positions with bars. For example, the solution  of the equation  (n = 4 and k = 10) can be represented by

The number of such strings is the number of ways to place 10 stars in 13 positions,  which is the number of 10-multisubsets of a set with 4 elements.

As with binomial coefficients, there are several relationships between these multichoose expressions. For example, for ,

This identity follows from interchanging the stars and bars in the above representation.

Example of counting multisubsets 
For example, if you have four types of donuts (n = 4) on a menu to choose from and you want three donuts (k = 3), the number of ways to choose the donuts with repetition can be calculated as

This result can be verified by listing all the 3-multisubsets of the set S = {1,2,3,4}. This is displayed in the following table. The second column lists the donuts you actually chose, the third column shows the nonnegative integer solutions  of the equation  and the last column gives the stars and bars representation of the solutions.

Number of k-combinations for all k 

The number of k-combinations for all k is the number of subsets of a set of n elements. There are several ways to see that this number is 2n. In terms of combinations, , which is the sum of the nth row (counting from 0) of the binomial coefficients in Pascal's triangle. These combinations (subsets) are enumerated by the 1 digits of the set of base 2 numbers counting from 0 to 2n − 1, where each digit position is an item from the set of n.

Given 3 cards numbered 1 to 3, there are 8 distinct combinations (subsets), including the empty set:

Representing these subsets (in the same order) as base 2 numerals:

0 – 000
1 – 001
2 – 010
3 – 011
4 – 100
5 – 101
6 – 110
7 – 111

Probability: sampling a random combination 

There are various algorithms to pick out a random combination from a given set or list. Rejection sampling is extremely slow for large sample sizes. One way to select a k-combination efficiently from a population of size n is to iterate across each element of the population, and at each step pick that element with a dynamically changing probability of  (see Reservoir sampling). Another is to pick a random non-negative integer less than  and convert it into a combination using the combinatorial number system.

Number of ways to put objects into bins 

A combination can also be thought of as a selection of two sets of items: those that go into the chosen bin and those that go into the unchosen bin. This can be generalized to any number of bins with the constraint that every item must go to exactly one bin. The number of ways to put objects into bins is given by the multinomial coefficient

where n is the number of items, m is the number of bins, and  is the number of items that go into bin i.

One way to see why this equation holds is to first number the objects arbitrarily from 1 to n and put the objects with numbers  into the first bin in order, the objects with numbers  into the second bin in order, and so on. There are  distinct numberings, but many of them are equivalent, because only the set of items in a bin matters, not their order in it. Every combined permutation of each bins' contents produces an equivalent way of putting items into bins. As a result, every equivalence class consists of  distinct numberings, and the number of equivalence classes is .

The binomial coefficient is the special case where k items go into the chosen bin and the remaining  items go into the unchosen bin:

See also

 Binomial coefficient
 Combinatorics
 Block design
 Kneser graph
 List of permutation topics
 Multiset
 Pascal's triangle
 Permutation
 Probability
 Subset

Notes

References
 
 
 Erwin Kreyszig, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, John Wiley & Sons, INC, 1999.