[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Armenian genocide recognition

announced its recognition of the Armenian genocide and urged the Israeli government to formally acknowledge the 1915 mass slaughter of 1.5 million Armenians as such. On March 30, 2023, the City Council of Haifa recognized the genocide and became the second city in Israel to do so, after Petah Tikva.

Italy 
Parliaments of 10 Italian regions recognize the Armenian genocide:
 : The Italian region of Abruzzo on October 27, 2015, passed a bill to recognize the Armenian genocide.
 : The Regional Council of Basilicata, Italy, unanimously recognized the Armenian genocide on September 27, 2016.
 : The Emilia-Romagna region of Italy adopted on July 28, 2016, a resolution recognizing the Armenian genocide.
 : The Regional Council of Friuli Venezia Giulia unanimously adopted a resolution recognizing the Armenian genocide on May 20, 2021.
 : The Regional Council of Lazio in Italy unanimously adopted a motion on recognition of the Armenian genocide on March 18, 2019.
 : The Regional Council of Lombardy in Italy unanimously adopted a motion on recognition and commemoration of the Armenian genocide on April 14, 2015.
 : The Regional Council of Marche, Italy, unanimously recognized the Armenian genocide on October 6, 2015.
 : On March 31, 2015, the Regional Council of Piedmont in Italy adopted a motion on recognition and commemoration of the Armenian genocide.
 : The Sicilian Parliament in Italy unanimously recognized the Armenian genocide on April 20, 2016.
 : On March 25, 2015, the Italian region of Tuscany passed a resolution on recognition of the Armenian genocide.

Additionally, almost 100 cities throughout Italy have recognized the Armenian genocide, including Rome, Milan, Turin, Venice, Padua, Florence, Genoa, Livorno, Taranto, Trieste, Ancona, Perugia, Reggio Emilia and Parma.

Mexico
: The Mexican state of Michoacán adopted a statement recognizing and condemning the 1915 Armenian genocide on May 7, 2019.

Netherlands
 : The Dutch province of Overijssel adopted a motion recognizing the Armenian genocide.

Philippines
 : A divine liturgy was delivered on September 27, 2016, at Santuario de San Antonio Church in Manila, Philippines, dedicated to the memory of the victims of the Armenian genocide at the initiative of the Armenian Embassy of the Philippines.

Saudi Arabia
 : The deterioration of Saudi Arabia–Turkey relations has led to an increase of calling for recognition of the Armenian genocide. In 2019, Saudi Arabia sponsored the final solution to recognize the Armenian genocide, in which the U.S. Senate eventually recognized. Saudi Arabian ambassador in Lebanon had also paid a visit to the Armenian Genocide Memorial to demonstrate Saudi solidarity to Armenia.

Spain 
Parliaments of 6 Spanish regions recognize the Armenian genocide:
 
 
 
 
 
 

Additionally, 39 Spanish cities within 9 regions have recognized the Armenian genocide: 
 : La Roda de Andalucía, Puente Genil, Benalmádena, Marbella, Málaga, Torremolinos.
 : Santa Margalida. 
 : San Sebastián.
 : Burgos, Soria.
 : Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Sabadell, Sant Hilari Sacalm, Barcelona.
 : Pinto, Alcorcón.
 : Mérida.
 : Arnedo.
 : Manises, Mislata, Xirivella, Silla, Burjassot, Betera, Aldaia, Alzira, Carcaixent, Alaquàs, Elda, Paiporta, Alicante, Torrent, Petrer, Villena, Cullera, Sueca, Ontinyent, Valencia. Liria.

Switzerland 
 : Government of Swiss canton of Geneva recognized the Armenian genocide of 1915
 : Swiss Canton of Vaud recognized the Armenian genocide of 1915 in Ottoman Turkey

Ukraine
 : The Crimean Parliament recognized the Armenian genocide in 2005.

United Arab Emirates
Due to deterioration of relations between Turkey and the United Arab Emirates, the country had announced in April 2019 to slowly recognize the Armenian genocide, in response to Turkey's aggressive behaviors.

 : The Emirate had become the first place in the United Arab Emirates to openly acknowledge the Armenian genocide.

United Kingdom
Two of the three devolved legislatures of the United Kingdom have recognised the Armenian genocide.

 
 

United States
 : All 50 U.S. states have recognized the Armenian genocide as of 2022. On November 27, 2019, the District of Columbia of the United States adopted a resolution  recognizing the Armenian genocide.

Vietnam
 : In 2015, Vietnam's Justice Minister Hà Hùng Cường, on his trip to Yerevan, stated that Vietnam was willing to discuss and recognize the Armenian genocide.

Positions by countries

Turkey 

The verdict of the Istanbul trials, held by the Ottoman government in 1919–1920, acknowledged the massacre of Armenians as "war crimes", and sentenced the perpetrators to death. However, in 1921, during the resurgence of the Turkish National Movement, amnesty was given to those found guilty. Thereafter, the Turkish government, under Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, adopted a policy of denial.