[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lanarkshire and Dumbartonshire Railway

The Lanarkshire and Dumbartonshire Railway was a railway company in Scotland. It was promoted independently but supported by the Caledonian Railway, and it was designed to connect Balloch (on Loch Lomond) and Dumbarton with central Glasgow, linking in heavy industry on the north bank of the River Clyde. From Dumbarton to Balloch the line would have closely duplicated an existing railway, and negotiation led to the latter being made jointly operated, and the L&DR terminated immediately east of Dumbarton, trains continuing on the joint section.

Since the twentieth century the county is now spelled Dunbartonshire, but at the time of formation of the Company, Dumbartonshire was in common use, and that is the spelling the company adopted.

The line opened progressively from 1894 to 1896. It was very successful in attracting goods traffic from heavy industry on Clydeside, and in carrying workers to and from their places of work. This was enhanced by the connection to the Glasgow Central Railway.

Heavy industry declined after 1950 and passenger and goods use of the line declined similarly, and the British Railways modernisation plan proposed electrification and upgrading of the parallel former North British Railway route, and closure of the former L&DR line. The electrification was commissioned in 1960 and the L&DR route closed in 1964 except for a short section near Dumbarton.

History

The Caledonian and Dumbartonshire Junction Railway

The Caledonian Railway was authorised in 1845 to build its trunk line from Glasgow and Edinburgh to Carlisle: that line opened in 1847 - 1848. During the lengthy period of planning the route and obtaining its Act of Parliament, the Caledonian set about gaining control of other Scottish railway companies. Many other lines were being promoted at that time of easy availability of capital, and the Caledonian quickly secured the Glasgow, Paisley and Greenock Railway and agreed leases of several other lines, mostly north of the central belt.

There was much industry in the valley of the River Leven and at Dumbarton itself, and independent promoters put forward a line that would run from Glasgow to Dumbarton and Balloch. The connection in Glasgow was to be with the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway (E&GR) near Cowlairs, broadly following the present-day Westerton route. In 1846 the line obtained an authorising Act of Parliament; it was to be called the Caledonian and Dumbartonshire Junction Railway (C&DJR).

The Caledonian expressed interest in the line and offered to lease the line on its completion, and subscribed to some shares. The C&DJR decided that the Caledonian Railway would be a better partner than the E&GR, and in 1847 successfully presented another Bill to Parliament, proposing an alteration of the terminal in Glasgow so as to connect with the Caledonian.

In fact the G&DJR had serious trouble raising capital, and only succeeded in constructing its line from Bowling through Dumbarton to Balloch. The terminal at Bowling was at the basin of the Forth and Clyde Canal; the canal was in the process of being acquired by the Caledonian Railway at the time. The G&DJR opened in 1850.

The Glasgow, Dumbarton and Helensburgh Railway

Money for railway construction had been difficult to come by, but the situation eased after 1850 and the attraction of connecting Dumbarton to Glasgow resulted in a new proposal: the Glasgow, Dumbarton and Helensburgh Railway. This was authorised in 1855 and opened in 1858. It connected end on to the C&DJR at Bowling, and extended from Dalreoch to Helensburgh. The C&DJR formed the central section of the route, and a revenue apportioning system was agreed. The company was taken over by the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway in 1862 and that company formed part of the North British Railway in 1865.

The line ran from Glasgow to Bowling on the north side of the River Clyde, but at some distance from the shore. In the years following the construction, industry developed with increasing intensity close to the shore, especially at Yoker and Clydebank. As navigation on the Clyde was improved, larger port facilities were developed, and the Queens Dock was opened in 1880 at Stobcross (now the location of the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre). The North British Railway built a branch to the dock.

The Glasgow Central Railway

In 1888 the Glasgow Central Railway was authorised; supported by the Caledonian Railway, it was to run from Dalmarnock to Maryhill through the centre of Glasgow, with a low level station under Glasgow Central, and making a connection at Stobcross to the extensive dock sidings there. The line was prodigiously difficult to construct, and it did not open throughout until 1896. It was heavily used for suburban passenger purposes, but also by goods trains to and from the dock.