[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Runaway Train (Soul Asylum song)

"Runaway Train" is a song by American alternative rock band Soul Asylum, released in June 1993 as the third single from the band's sixth album, Grave Dancers Union (1992). The power ballad became a success around the world, reaching number five on the US Billboard Hot 100 and climbing to the top position on the Canadian RPM Top Singles chart. The single earned a gold sales certification from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) after selling 600,000 copies in the US. Outside North America, it reached number two in New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland and peaked within the top five on the charts on several other European countries.

"Runaway Train" helped bring Grave Dancers Union to a multi-platinum level and won a Grammy Award for Best Rock Song in 1994. Its accompanying music video is notable for featuring images of missing people, most of them young children and teenagers. Lead singer Dave Pirner has stated that the lyrics originally described his experience of depression.

Background and recording
 Pirner suffered from a nervous breakdown after he thought he was losing his hearing. He started playing an acoustic guitar, and one of the songs that came out of this was "Runaway Train". Pirner had been fascinated by trains since he was a kid, having watched Casey Jones, the American Western series about the adventures of railroad engineer Casey Jones and the crew of the Cannonball Express steam locomotive. Pirner would use a runaway train as a metaphor for the depression that was spinning out of control. 

The first line, "Call you up in the middle of the night" would refer to a friend of Pirner who lived in New York and was kind enough to answer him on the phone, no matter what time it was. After a practice-room tape was presented to various labels in New York, Columbia Records was most interested. The song was then recorded with producer Michael Beinhorn. Pirner told in an interview with The Guardian, "If the vocal on it sounds world-weary, it’s because he made me sing it 100 times." The band's drummer, Grant Young, was replaced during the session by Sterling Campbell. Then keyboards were put on the track in a studio in LA by Booker T from the MGs. "Runaway Train" was released as the third single of the Grave Dancers Union album on June 1, 1993.

Critical reception

Larry Flick from Billboard wrote, "Acoustic-anchored midtempo tune has a sweet, string-lined undercurrent that is the perfect embodiment of the song's cinematic, romantic lyrics. Icing on top is a restrained lead vocal and pillowy harmonies. Deserves immediate play." The Daily Vault's Christopher Thelen felt the song was "too sappy and slow". David Howell from Edmonton Journal declared it as "a melancholy song about hopelessness and despair". Dave Sholin from the Gavin Report commented, "Groups like Soul Asylum don't come around very often and neither do songs like this one. For a riveting and chilling experience, go immediately to your VCR and watch the video, which gets my vote as best of the year! A song that truly deserves to become a runaway hit."

In his weekly UK chart commentary, James Masterton said, "This track comes with a powerful video featuring shots of homeless children, putting a whole new slant on what would ordinarily be an ordinary love song. Judging just how well this brand of country-sounding rock will do is difficult. If there is any justice it will go on to be a massive hit." Later he added, "Always a strong track and with 'hit' written all over it". Caren Myers from Melody Maker felt that "Runaway Train" "is quite palatable in a mid-tempo Bruce kinda way". Pan-European magazine Music & Media described it as an alternative guitar-driven pop combo, "temporarily injected with a dash of country." Matt Diehl from Rolling Stone declared it as a "lush country lament", while another editor, Chris Mundy, called it a "beautiful acoustic ballad". Charles Aaron from Spin wrote, "Savoring the band's countryish metal clichés instead of fidgeting against them, Dave Pirner and crew pull off a subtly gripping rock anthem. More generous and less apologetic than anybody could have expected."

Music video
The accompanying music video for "Runaway Train" was directed by Tony Kaye and received heavy airplay on MTV and VH1 during its duration.

Several versions of the video were made. The video for the United States version begins with a fade to a black screen with a big, white blocked text reading: "There are over one million youth lost on the streets of America", while the UK version begins with "100,000 youth are lost on the streets of Britain". The next scene shows a drawing of an adolescent girl, and a Dave Pirner voice-over saying that the drawing is by a girl who had run away more than 110 times. The scene was often omitted when the video was shown, a common practice when videos had additional footage before or after the song.