[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Addison Montgomery

Addison Adrianne Forbes Montgomery, M.D., F.A.C.S., F.A.C.O.G  is a fictional character who appears as a supporting main character on the ABC television series Grey's Anatomy, and as the protagonist of its spin-off  Private Practice played by Kate Walsh. Addison is a world-class neonatal surgeon with board certifications in both Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Maternal and Fetal Medicine. Additionally, she has completed a medical genetics fellowship. She works at the Oceanside Wellness Group, a fictional practice located in Santa Monica, California.

Addison joined the series in the first-season finale as Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey)'s estranged wife. Initially set for a recurring guest stint on Grey's, Walsh's character expanded into a series regular position as Rhimes grew fond of Walsh's portrayal of the character. She is promoted to series regular in season two episode seven, "Something To Talk About". She makes her final appearance as a series regular in the season three finale, "Didn't We Almost Have It All?", but returns as a guest star for the following five seasons, including a two-part guest stint in the fifth season. 

Once the love-triangle storyline had been resolved, Rhimes created the first spin-off of Grey's Anatomy based on the character named Private Practice which saw Addison move to Los Angeles to start anew, after two seasons as a series regular. The spin-off lasted six seasons, running concurrently with the fourth to ninth seasons of Grey's Anatomy. Walsh deciding to retire the character after eight years of portraying her, making her final series regular appearance in the Grey's Anatomy universe in the Private Practice series finale, "In Which We Say Goodbye" on January 22, 2013. Walsh returned to the role almost nine years later in recurring capacity, for the eighteenth and nineteenth seasons of the original series.

Storylines

Backstory 
Most of Addison's past is presented in a non-linear fashion, primarily revealed in the second season of Grey's Anatomy and the second and third season of Private Practice. Addison is the daughter of wealthy parents and has a $25 million trust fund. Addison's father is nicknamed "The Captain" and is a doctor who teaches medicine at a university where Addison would sit and watch as a child. Her father used spending time with his daughter as a pretense for his many affairs. Addison's mother is Beatrice "Bizzy" Forbes Montgomery and her brother, Archer, is a world-class neurologist and successful author. Addison met her future husband, Derek Shepherd, in medical school. Addison is a Yale University graduate and attended Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York City for medical school. She met future colleagues Sam and Naomi Bennett there as well. Addison and Derek each began their practice in New York City, which placed a strain on their marriage. Their marriage was troubled in the years leading to Derek's decision to leave New York as it is eventually revealed in both Grey's Anatomy and Private Practice that Derek's mother did not approve of her (choosing to give her dead husband's ring to Derek's second wife,  Meredith Grey) and Addison's brother Archer disliked Derek. Addison's affair with Derek's best friend Mark Sloan drove the wedge even further and Derek's departure to Seattle. Addison briefly attempted to have a relationship with Mark, which resulted in her becoming pregnant. She then had an abortion soon after she discovered that Mark cheated on her, and as she was still in love with Derek. She then moved to Seattle.

Grey's Anatomy 
The character Addison first appears in the season one finale of Grey's Anatomy, arriving at Richard's behest. She tries to reconcile with Derek, despite his relationship with Meredith Grey, but he is still angry with her, and there is a period of antagonism between them. Addison's presence, however, does reinvigorate their relationship, and ultimately leads to Derek choosing Addison over Meredith, despite Derek eventually admitting that he fell in love with Meredith. They attempt to return to their former life, taking residence in his trailer, and Addison becomes the head of a unique surgical service integrating neonatal surgery and obstetrics and gynecology. She realizes that Derek still has feelings for Meredith, and their marriage is tested further when Mark arrives in Seattle looking for Addison. Mark makes Addison realize that Derek is in love with Meredith and that he (Mark) does love her. Derek sleeps with Addison after he sees that Meredith has moved on. When Addison finds out that Derek had sex with Meredith, she gets drunk and sleeps with Mark. He asks for a relationship, but she rejects him.