[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sean Hughes (politician)

Sean Francis Hughes (8 May 1946 – 24 June 1990) was a British history teacher and Labour politician. He was the local successor to Sir Harold Wilson as a Member of Parliament, and served as a whip and a spokesman on defence issues for his party. Respected for his Parliamentary abilities and able to use his historical knowledge in Parliamentary speeches, he played a role in changing Labour's defence policy from unilateral nuclear disarmament to a multilateral approach. His Parliamentary career was cut short by his early death from cancer.

Early life
Hughes was born in Huyton to a Welsh father and Irish Catholic mother. His early life was described as "impeccably working class", with his father Francis Hughes working as a ship fender-maker in Liverpool. After his father's death, his mother Mary moved back to Ireland with his five sisters. He attended St Aloysius Primary School, where he proved to be naturally bright and won a scholarship to West Park Grammar School in St Helens; he spent some time at St John's College, Southsea which was, like West Park Grammar School, run by the De La Salle brothers. He went on to Liverpool University where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree and Manchester University for a Master of Arts degree. He attended a Roman Catholic seminary but did not take a religious vocation.

Teaching career
In 1969 Hughes began work as a trainee personnel manager at the Unilever plant in Port Sunlight. However he was very interested in the subject of history; and obtained a Certificate of Education from Liverpool University. In 1970 he joined the staff of Ruffwood Comprehensive School as a history teacher and from 1973 he was head of the history department. Initially a member of the National Association of Schoolmasters, he was later a member of the National Union of Teachers.

Politics
After joining the Labour Party in 1966, Hughes was elected to Huyton-with-Roby Urban District Council in 1969 and served until the council was abolished in local government reform in 1974. Hughes chaired the Housing Committee of the council, in charge of its council housing: he found he had the power to decide whether a family would be housed.

In 1972 he was selected as prospective Parliamentary candidate for Crosby, then a safe Conservative seat. At the February 1974 general election Hughes came second in Crosby, with 27.2% of the vote and 15,570 votes behind the Conservative winner. He was shortlisted for the Labour candidacy in Wallasey, which was a marginal constituency, before the October 1974 general election, although he was not selected.

He was chairman of Labour Party Young Socialists in the Northern Region for 1970–71. Hughes had in 1973 been elected to Merseyside County Council, serving one term until 1977. He became chairman of Huyton Constituency Labour Party in 1974, an office which had additional significance because the local Labour MP was Harold Wilson who was then Prime Minister. In later years Hughes was able to regale friends with anecdotes about Wilson's time in the constituency. He managed to prevent the Militant tendency infiltrating the constituency party, explaining that "I'm known as a good Catholic who doesn't want trouble".

Election to Parliament
During the 1979 election campaign, Sir Harold Wilson (who had resigned as Prime Minister in 1976) intimated that it would be his last contest. On 27 February 1981, Huyton Labour Party formally announced that Wilson would not seek renomination for the constituency at the next general election. Hughes put his name forward for the new selection, and on 17 May he was selected as prospective Parliamentary candidate for Huyton. Hughes was immediately identified as a moderate within the Labour Party,  which was in the middle of an intense internal struggle between left-wingers and moderates. He was duly endorsed by the National Executive Committee in the same month.

Sir Harold Wilson wrote in April 1983 that Huyton CLP had "consistently kept the extreme left-wing faction in check" and stated that Hughes had twice been responsible for proposing motions which defeated left-wing manoeuvring intended to take over the party – including one quite recent attempt. Boundary changes enacted shortly before the election abolished the Huyton constituency, and Hughes transferred to the new constituency of Knowsley South which was based on Huyton and Roby. At the 1983 general election Hughes was elected with a majority of 11,769. Although there was a national swing to the Conservatives, in Knowsley South the swing was to Labour and Hughes had a higher majority than there would have been for a Labour candidate in 1979.