[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Defender of the Fatherland Day

29 May, which is the Day of the Armed Forces of Kyrgyzstan.

In Tajikistan

In Tajikistan, the holiday is known as "Tajik National Army Day" (), celebrating the Tajik National Army. However, it has been known that other military units, such as the Tajik Air Force, have taken part in the celebration.

In Turkmenistan
Defender of the Fatherland Day () in Turkmenistan is celebrated on 27 January, celebrating the anniversary of the founding of the Armed Forces of Turkmenistan. It was previously celebrated as Army Day until President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow changed its name in 2009. The Ministry of Defense organizes festive concerts and activities in military units on this day. The current military doctrine was adopted on the eve of the holiday in 2016.

In Ukraine

In Ukraine, Defender of the Fatherland Day (/ ) was never celebrated as a state holiday. In 1999 President Leonid Kuchma recognized 23 February as Defenders of the Fatherland Day without, however, granting it any official status. President Petro Poroshenko made a statement on 24 August 2014, according to which, Ukraine "should not celebrate the holidays of the military-historical calendar of Russia, but will honor the defenders of our homeland, not someone else's". On 14 October 2014, a decree by Poroshenko instated the Defender of Ukraine Day, with its official holiday status. Armed Forces Day for the entire Armed Forces is celebrated yearly on 6 December with special programs and nationwide gun salutes and fireworks displays.

In the early 21st century, even though it was not a public holiday, many women on this day gave some extra attention to male relatives, friends, husbands and boyfriends, especially to those serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine.

In states with limited recognition

In Transnistria
In the unrecognized state of Transnistria, Defender of the Fatherland Day is a public holiday. The main celebrations are held in Tiraspol. They are attended by the President of the republic and the heads of defence/law enforcement agencies. By decree of President Igor Smirnov on 13 June 2001, it was included in the list of professional holidays and is a non-working holiday.

In South Ossetia
23 February is an official holiday in the partially recognized Republic of South Ossetia. The country's leadership pay to veterans who served in the Soviet Army as well as all those who served in the Armed Forces of South Ossetia and died in the 1991–1992 South Ossetia War and the Russo-Georgian War. The holiday also coincide with festive events that surround the creation of the Ministry of Defense of the republic.

See also

 Army Day (Armenia)
 Border Guards Day
 Day of the Armed Forces of Azerbaijan
 Defender of the Motherland Day
 Navy Day
 Personification of Russia
 Police and Internal Affairs Servicemen's Day

References

External links
 

2014 disestablishments in Ukraine
February observances
Former public holidays in Ukraine
Military of Belarus
Military of Kyrgyzstan
Military of Russia
Military of South Ossetia
Military of the Soviet Union
Military of Ukraine
Public holidays in Belarus
Public holidays in Kyrgyzstan
Public holidays in Russia
Public holidays in South Ossetia
Public holidays in the Soviet Union
Winter events in Russia