[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Jarkko Wiss

Jarkko Wiss (born 17 April 1972) is a Finnish football coach and a former player. He is the manager of Inter Turku.

Player career
As a player, he played in the position of defensive midfielder for TPV Tampere, FF Jaro, HJK and Tampere United in Finland, Molde, Lillestrøm and Moss in Norway, Stockport County in England as well as Hibernian in Scotland. He was known for his powerful shots with both feet and as a hard tackler.

He has also appeared over 40 times for the Finnish national team.

Coaching career
After retiring in 2007 at the age of 35, he worked both as a youth coach and as a sporting director for Tampere United between 2008 and 2009. He also managed the Finnish under-15 football team.

On 29 October 2010 it was announced that Wiss had succeeded the longtime head coach Ari Hjelm at Tampere United. He signed a two-year contract, with an option for a two-year extension, with the club on the same day. However, the club was banned from competition for the 2011 season.

Wiss was the manager of Finland national under-18 football team since 1 January 2014.

On 6 November 2015 it was announced that Wiss is taking the head coach position at Ilves starting on 1 January 2016.

On 23 September 2022, Wiss signed a contract with Inter Turku as a manager for 2023 and 2024 seasons, with an option for an additional year.

References

External links

1972 births
Living people
Footballers from Tampere
Finnish men's footballers
Finland men's international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Helsingin Jalkapalloklubi players
Tampere United players
Moss FK players
Molde FK players
Lillestrøm SK players
Stockport County F.C. players
Hibernian F.C. players
Veikkausliiga players
Scottish Premier League players
Eliteserien players
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Norway
Expatriate men's footballers in Scotland
Finnish expatriate sportspeople in Norway
Finnish expatriate men's footballers
Finnish football managers
Tampere United managers
FC Inter Turku managers
Veikkausliiga managers