[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Machiavellian Moment

traditional terms," that had been lost to the early modern "corruption" of "money in government: of public finance...[and] a well-financed court bureaucracy... a Marxist might say that this was a [neo-]mercantilist rather than an entrepreneurial consciousness, if that were not probably revisionism."

The "neo-Harringtonians," extant dissidents against the "mercantile court" and "coffeehouse intellectuals living by their wit," began to deride "standing army" excursions against the landed gentry in their remonstrances, ostensibly "to win support from country gentlemen discontented with the progress of court government." The "neo-Harringtonians" demanded the replacement of this "instrument of corruption" with "an ancient institution known as the militia...where Harrington contrasted the republic of armed proprietors with the feudal combination of monarchy and aristocracy, the neo-Harringtonians contrasted it with the professional army maintained by the executive power." Pocock concluded that "if the armed force of the nation is embodied only in this form [a militia], there can be no threat to public liberty or the public purse; and the proprietor's liberty is guaranteed as much by his right to be the sole fighter in his own defense as by his ultimate right to cast a vote in his own government...it was a well-watered soil on which the ideas of Montesquieu fell, and out of which some of them grew."

Summary/content

J.G.A. Pocock divided the book into three sections:
Particularity and Time
The Republic and its Fortune
Value and History in the Prerevolutionary Atlantic

Particularity and Time

The Republic and its Fortune

Value and History in the Prerevolutionary Atlantic

References

Further reading

 Banerjee, Kiran, and Mauricio Suchowlansky. "Citizens, Subjects or Tyrants? Relocating the People in Pocock's The Machiavellian Moment." History of European Ideas 43.2 (2017): 184–197.
Pocock, J. G. A. The Machiavellian Moment: Florentine Political Thought and the Atlantic Republican Tradition. Princeton University Press, 1975.
 Pocock, J. G. A. "Afterword: The Machiavellian Moment: A Very Short Retrospect and Re-Introduction." History of European Ideas 43.2 (2017): 215–221.
 Pocock, John GA. "Theory in History Problems of Context and Narrative." The Oxford Handbook of Political Science 2006. online
 Simmons, Dana. "The Weight of the Moment: JGA Pocock's Politics of History." History of European ideas 38.2 (2012): 288–306.
 Suchowlansky, Mauricio, and Kiran Banerjee. "Foreword: The Machiavellian Moment Turns Forty." History of European Ideas 43.2 (2017): 125–128.
 Sullivan, Vickie B. "Machiavelli's momentary 'Machiavellian moment': A reconsideration of Pocock's treatment of the Discourses." Political Theory 20.2 (1992): 309–18.
 Ward, Stuart. "Machiavellian Moments and the Exigencies of Leaving." Historical Reflections/Réflexions Historiques 47.2 (2021): 49–64.

1975 non-fiction books
Political science books
Books about revolutions
Revolution terminology