[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Balak (parashah)

braham. Spinoza concluded that other nations, like the Jews, thus had their prophets who prophesied to them. And Spinoza concluded that Jews, apart from their social organization and government, possessed no gift of God above other peoples, and that there was no difference between Jews and non-Jews.

Robert Alter observed that the Balaam narrative builds on repeated key words and actions, but repeats only certain phrases and dialogue verbatim. Alter pointed out that in Hebrew, the first word of the story in Numbers 22:2 is the verb "to see" (), which then becomes (with some synonyms) the main Leitwort in the tale about the nature of prophecy or vision. In Numbers 22:2, Balak saw what Israel did to the Amorites; in a vision in Numbers 23:9, Balaam saw Israel below him; in his last prophecy in Numbers 24:17, Balaam foresaw Israel's future. Balaam prefaced his last two prophecies with an affirmation in Numbers 24:3–4 of his powers as a seer: "utterance of the man open-eyed, . . . who the vision of Shaddai beholds, prostrate with eyes unveiled." Alter noted that all this "hullabaloo of visionary practice" stands in ironic contrast to Balaam's blindness to the angel his donkey could plainly see, until in Numbers 22:31, God chose to "unveil his eyes." Alter concluded that the story insists that God is the exclusive source of vision. Alter also noted reiterated phrase-motifs bearing on blessings and curses. In Numbers 22:6, Balak sent for Balaam to curse Israel believing that "Whom you bless is blessed and whom you curse is cursed." In Numbers 22:12, God set matters straight using the same two verb-stems: "You shall not curse the people, for it is blessed." In Numbers 23:7–8, Balaam concluded: "From Aram did Balak lead me . . . : ‘Go, curse me Jacob, and go, doom Israel.’ What can I curse that El has not cursed, and what can I doom that the Lord has not doomed?" Alter observed that Balaam was a poet as well as a seer, and taught that the story ultimately addresses whether language confers or confirms blessings and curses, and what the source of language's power is.

Nili Sacher Fox noted that Balaam’s talking donkey, whom Numbers 22:21–34 portrays as wiser than Balaam, is a jenny, a female donkey, perhaps reminiscent of the biblical personification of wisdom (, chochmah) as female in, for example, Proverbs 1:20.

Diane Aronson Cohen wrote that the story of Balaam and his donkey in Numbers 22:21–34 provides an important model of an abuser venting misdirected anger in verbal abuse and physical violence. Cohen noted that the recipient of the abuse finally decided that she had had enough and stopped the abuse by speaking up. Cohen taught that we learn from the donkey that if we are on the receiving end of abuse, we have an obligation to speak out against our abuser.

Numbers chapter 23
Nehama Leibowitz contrasted God’s call of Israel’s prophets in Jeremiah 1:4, Ezekiel 1:3, Hosea 1:1, and Joel 1:1 with Balaam’s preliminaries to communion with God in Numbers 22:1–3 and 23:14–16. Leibowitz noted that Israel’s prophets did not run after prophecy, while Balaam hankered after prophecy, striving through magical means to force such power down from Heaven. Leibowitz marked a change in Balaam’s third address, however, when Numbers 24:2 reports, “the spirit of God came upon him.”

Numbers chapter 24
Leibowitz contrasted how Israel's prophets continually emphasize the Divine authority for their messages, often using the phrase, “says the Lord,” while Balaam prefaced his two later utterances in Numbers 24:3–16 with the introduction “The saying of Balaam the son of Beor, and the saying of the man whose eye is opened.”