[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Simcha Jacobovici

lling from western Europe to China and India, Jacobovici finds tantalizing evidence which proves that the "lost tribes" are, like the tribe of Dan, really not lost. The tribe of Dan is the only original tribe of Israel which is not included in the Book of Revelation's list of tribes that are sealed.

The Struma
The 2002 documentary, directed by Jacobovici, tells the story of , a small ship chartered to carry Jewish refugees from Axis-allied Romania to Mandatory Palestine during World War II. Ten people were let off the ship in Istanbul, including a woman who had just had a miscarriage, and one man who was the representative of the Mobil Oil Company in Romania and was helped by Mobil's representative in Turkey, Vehbi Koc. Koc asked the favour of the Istanbul Chief of Police, Sabri Caglayangil, who later became a Minister of the Interior. On February 23, 1942, with her engine inoperable and her refugee passengers aboard, Turkish authorities towed Struma from Istanbul Harbour through the Bosphorus back to the Black Sea, where they set her adrift without food, water or fuel. Within hours, on the morning of February 24, she was torpedoed and sunk by the , killing at least 768 men, women and children and possibly as many as 791, 785 of whom were Jews.

The documentary won the Audience Award at the Portland International Film Festival for best documentary.

 Expulsion and Memory: Descendants of the Hidden Jews 
In the 1996 documentary, Jacobovici studies the Crypto-Jews of New Mexico and tiny populations of Jewish descendants in Spain and Portugal, known as nuevos Cristianos ("new Christians"). He explores the Jewish ancestry of the New Mexican Hispanic families now living in New Mexico and finds that many of them have always been aware of their Jewish heritage.
 Falasha: Exile of the Black Jews 
In the 1983 documentary Falasha: Exile of the Black Jews, Jacobovici tells the story of Ethiopian Jews, also called Falasha (strangers) and properly known as Beta Israel''. According to the documentary, the group was conquered by neighbouring tribes in the 17th century and suffered persecution.

References

External links 
 Associated Producers Ltd.
 Associated Producers Ltd. – Simcha Jacobovici
 
 Official Site for The Lost Tomb of Jesus
 Simcha Jacobovici honors his father
 Simcha Jacobovici Interview

1953 births
Living people
Canadian documentary film directors
21st-century Canadian male writers
Canadian Orthodox Jews
Canadian people of Romanian-Jewish descent
Israeli emigrants to Canada
Israeli Orthodox Jews
Jewish Canadian writers
Pseudoarchaeologists
Pseudohistorians
People from Petah Tikva
News & Documentary Emmy Award winners
21st-century Canadian non-fiction writers
Directors of Genie and Canadian Screen Award winners for Best Documentary Film
Historical theories and materials on the Exodus
Jewish Canadian filmmakers
Canadian Screen Award winning journalists