[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Old Fort Wayne

e shortly after sunrise and paused until 5 p.m. to wait for his cumbersome supply wagons to arrive. He was anxious to surprise the Confederates, who were unaware of his advance. After a forced march of  westward late on October 21, he stopped his column at 2 a.m. and allowed most of his men to rest.

However, he pushed forward the 2nd Kansas Cavalry, which struck the Confederates at 5 a.m. at Maysville, while the balance of the division was sleeping, nearly  back. After driving in the pickets at Maysville, the Union cavalry followed them three and  into the Indian Territory, where they encountered Cooper's main Confederate battleline, aligned along an east and west road, facing north, with a dense wood at their backs. Despite early Federal reports that he had as many as 7,000 men, Cooper in reality had roughly 1,500 men at his disposal, with Howell's Texas Battery of four artillery guns in the center of his three-quarter mile line. Blunt positioned howitzers in place to duel with the Confederate artillery, then deployed the 2nd Kansas, which soon pushed back Confederate skirmishers from a ridge fronting their main battleline. When the balance of Blunt's division arrived, he attacked, concentrating his men on the center of the thinly spread Confederate battleline. His howitzers silenced the lone enemy battery, and the Kansans and Cherokees opened a wide hole in Cooper's center. Within a half-hour, much of Cooper's ill-trained force was in full retreat (minus their artillery), with Blunt in pursuit for nearly  before halting. Blunt lost 14 men; Cooper approximately 150, including a reported 50 dead who were buried on the battlefield.

The Confederates retreated nearly  to Fort Gibson. The Union Army once again had undisputed possession of Indian Territory north of the Arkansas River. For his decisive victory, Blunt was appointed major general of volunteers.

The State of Arkansas erected a commemorative marker in Benton County at the northwest corner of state routes 43 and 72 in Maysville.

See also

 Fort Wayne (Indian Territory)
 List of battles fought in Oklahoma

References

U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, 70 volumes in 4 series. Washington, D.C.: United States Government Printing Office, 1880–1901. Series 1, Volume 13, Chapter 25.
National Park Service description of Old Fort Wayne
Arkansas History article on Old Fort Wayne
Blunt's post-war account of the battle
Map of the general area
CWSAC Report Update and Resurvey: Individual Battlefield Profiles

External links
Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History and Culture - Fort Wayne, Battle of

1862 in the Confederate States of America
Old Fort Wayne
Old Fort Wayne
Old Fort Wayne
Old Fort Wayne
Delaware County, Oklahoma
1862 in the American Civil War
October 1862 events