[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hong Kong identity card

eatures 24 phases, from 2018 to 2023.

Classes of HKID
There are two classes of Hong Kong identity card:
 Hong Kong permanent identity card () – states that the holder has the right of abode in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
 Hong Kong identity card () – which does not state that right.

The card types can be further divided into cards bearing the term "child" (below age 11 and not compulsory. The card can be requested to obtain later a passport with a Hong Kong permanent resident number), "youth" (from age 11 up until 18), and "adult" (issued from age 18 onwards).

Permanent HKID and right of abode

Permanent HKID holders have the Right of Abode () in Hong Kong. Under the Basic Law of Hong Kong, a person who belongs to one of the following categories is a permanent resident of the HKSAR with right of abode privileges:

 Chinese citizen born in Hong Kong before or after the establishment of the HKSAR
 Chinese citizen who has ordinarily resided in Hong Kong for a continuous period of not less than seven years before or after the establishment of the HKSAR.
 Person of Chinese nationality born outside Hong Kong before or after the establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to a legal ascendant who, at the time of birth of that person, was a Chinese citizen falling within category (1) or (2).
 Person not of Chinese nationality who has entered Hong Kong with a valid travel document, has ordinarily resided in Hong Kong for a continuous period of not less than seven years and has taken Hong Kong as his place of permanent residence before or after the establishment of the HKSAR.
 Person under 21 years of age born in Hong Kong to a legal ascendant who is a permanent resident of the HKSAR in category (4) before or after the establishment of the HKSAR if at the time of his birth or at any later time before he attains 21 years of age, one of his legal ascendant(s) has the ROA in Hong Kong.
 Person other than those residents in categories (1) to (5), who, before the establishment of the HKSAR, had the ROA in Hong Kong only.

Paper versions of the Hong Kong Identity card (such as the one on the right) are issued by the Registration of Persons Office for temporary use until a smart card can be manufactured.  This process requires two weeks, and the smart card must be collected within six weeks.

Hong Kong identity card
All Hong Kong residents aged 11 or over must register for an identity card.

Eligibility
Residents of Hong Kong are required to obtain an HKID card at the age of 11. Hong Kong residents over age 15 are required to carry legal identification with them at all times (that is, the HKID card). Bearers of a "youth" HKID card must switch to an "adult" HKID within 30 days after their 18th birthday. The "youth" card will be invalid as re-entry travel document 30 days after the 18th birthday.

Photographs are not required on HKIDs for children under the age of 11 and cannot be used as travel documents. A Hong Kong Re-entry Permit is issued in its place. Alternatively, children may use their HKSAR passport as a travel document to enter and exit Hong Kong.

Meaning of symbols on ID card
A Hong Kong ID card bears a number of symbols in Roman letters under the date of birth (for example: ***AZ, AO, CO)

Up until the issue of Smart ID cards, which were issued commencing from 2003, the sex of the holder was also shown in the codes under the date of birth (for example for example ***AFZ, AMO, CFO).  It is now shown next to the left of the date of birth, so the codes under the date of birth do not include M or F.

The symbols have the following meaning:

HKID number
HKID cards contain the bearer's HKID number, of which the standard format is X123456(A). X represents any one or two letters of the alphabet.  The meaning of each initial letter is explained in the table below. The numerals may represent any Arabic number.

A is the check digit which has 11 possible values from 0 to 9 and A. There are 26 million possible card numbers using only the one-letter prefix, and 676 million using a two-letter prefix. The ID numbers of deceased persons are not reused. It is also noted that the check digit in brackets is not part of the identity card number, but appended solely to facilitate computer data processing.

Infants are not issued HKIDs but birth certificates have been issued with the holder's ID number since 1 January 1980.

As of the year 2023, there are no single letter HKIDs that begin with the letters: `I`, `O`, `Q`, `U`, `X` (There are double letters begin with `X`)

Meaning of first letter(s)

Physical appearance

First and second-generation computerised HKID

 Name in Chinese (if any)
 Name in English
 Name in Chinese Commercial Code (if any)
 Sex
 Date of birth (DD-MM-YYYY)
 Symbols
 Holder's digital image
 Month and year of first registration
 Date of registration
 Date of expiry (first-generation computerised Hong Kong ID card only)
 Identity card number (Note)