[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Scarred Lands

s in the d20 System version, using the established rules for gods and NPCs, having both alignment and domains. This is also true of the Titan Denev who supported the gods in their war. No official statistics have been released for the gods or titans in the Open Gaming License or Pathfinder editions.

Another difference in the Scarred Lands setting, from other worlds using the d20 System, is the interaction, and 'awareness' of the Gods by the populations of the sentient beings. Like the land itself, the gods and titans are both major influences of the game. Blacksmiths for example invoke the name of Corean while they work. This in itself may not be different, for game purposes each round that the worshiper invokes his name a +1 may be added to die rolls for: Craft or Profession if the act involves blacksmithing, forging, or the creation of weapons. Other benefits are also described in the Scarred Lands Campaign Setting: Ghelspad book, and in The Divine and the Defeated published by White Wolf Publishing.
 Corean, the Avenger—LG: Fire, Good, Law, Protection, War
 Madriel, the Redeemer—NG: Air, Good, Healing, Plant, Sun
 Tanil, the Huntress—CG: Animal, Chaos, Luck, Plant, Travel, Trickery
 Hedrada, the Lawgiver—LN: Judgment, Knowledge, Law, Protection
 Enkili, the Trickster—CN: Air, Chaos, Luck, Travel, Trickery
 Chardun, the Slaver—LE: Domination, Evil, Law, Strength, War
 Belsameth, the Slayer—NE: Death, Evil, Magic, Trickery
 Vangal, the Reaver—CE: Chaos, Destruction, Evil, Strength, War
 Denev, the Earth Mother—N: Air, Animals, Earth, Fire, Plants, Water (Denev Is actually a Titan, but fought alongside the gods in the Titanswar, and can be worshipped as a goddess)

The Land 
While many role-playing game systems work with weather types and terrain difficulties, the Scarred Lands system brings in the aspect of land through various encounter modifiers and systems. The d20 System version covered two continents, Ghelspad and Termana, in individual setting books. Three additional continents were collected in the final book published under the original system. These are Asherak, the Dragon Isles, and Fenrilik.

Ghelspad is temperate. Termana is tropical. Asherak is desert. Fenrilik is arctic.

Supplements for the 5th Edition Open Game License system and the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game versions of the rules have continued this trend, with extensive rules regarding weather conditions, terrain, and hazards for players to overcome and endure.

Novels 

The Dead God Trilogy by Richard Lee Byers comprises the titles Forsaken, Forsworn, and Forbidden. It recounts the story of an elf (Vladawen Titanslayer) and his companions as they try to deliver their people from a devastating curse by resurrecting the high elven god killed during the Divine War by the titan Chern the Scourge.

Vigilant: Through Shadows and Dreams by Sarah L. Stewart and Frances Stewart was released in 2018 to support the new edition of the game. This novel tells the story of "brave, driven Veshian vigilants who stand between a recovering nation and the poisoned, half-mad wilds of Ghelspad. Learn the story behind the Scarred Lands’ dramatic Serpent saga, one of the most significant events of the post-war era."

Scarred Lands revival 

On October 11, 2013 Nocturnal Media and Onyx Path Publishing purchased the rights to the Scarred Lands fantasy setting. Onyx Path Publishing posted this on their website. "The Scarred Lands was one of the most successful and engaging campaign settings to arise during the wild and crazy days of the D20 license. While it is richly detailed in over two dozen game and fiction titles, Nocturnal Media and Onyx Path Publishing have plans to reimagine the setting and system to excite a modern gaming audience as well as to thrill fans of the original game."

After a successful crowdfunding campaign in 2016 and the release of Gauntlet of Spiragos as an introductory adventure that same year, the setting was released anew in 2017 with core rule books supporting both the 5th Edition Open Game License system and the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game rules. Initial supplements generated through the crowdfunding campaign were also released under both systems. With the release of the second edition of the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game, Onyx Path Publishing focused all further Scarred Lands publications strictly on the 5th Edition Open Game License system.

After the passing of Stewart Wieck in 2017, Onyx Path Publishing acquired the full rights to Scarred Lands from Nocturnal Media.