[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# HMNB Devonport

y-docks of a similar size (Nos. 8, 9 and 10), able to "accommodate ships larger than any war-vessel yet constructed". At the northernmost end of the site the north-west promontory, together with the wharves facing on to Weston Mill Lake, functioned as a vast coaling yard for the steam-powered fleet.

In the 1970s a new Fleet Maintenance Base was built at the North West Corner of the North Yard; opened in 1978, it was commissioned as HMS Defiance (remaining so until 1994, when it was amalgamated into HMS Drake). At the same time, a new Submarine Refit Complex was created, alongside the Fleet Maintenance Base, in the north-west corner of No. 5 Basin. It opened in 1981. Within it, two new dry docks were created (Nos. 14 and 15) for nuclear-powered fleet submarines, and between them an 80-ton cantilever crane, one of the largest in western Europe, was installed to lift nuclear cores from submarines for maintenance and refuelling. As part of the same works, the North Lock (at the opposite end of the basin) was divided to form two submarine docks (Nos. 11 and 12). 

In 1993 the Submarine Refit Centre was upgraded following the announcement that Devonport was to become the Royal Navy's only nuclear refit yard; among other things Nos. 9 and 10 dry docks were strengthened and reconfigured so as to be able to accommodate the much larger Vanguard-class submarines, which entered into service from that year; the work was completed by Carillion in 2002.

In 2011 the MOD sold the freehold of much of the North Yard to the Dockyard operator, Babcock; the site includes Basins No. 2 and No. 5 and their adjoining dry docks, together with the land between and around them (containing six listed buildings and structures, including the Grade I listed Quadrangle).

Weston Mill Lake
To the north of No. 5 Basin, land around Weston Mill Lake was reclaimed in the 1970s and the following decade the area (including the former coaling wharves) was repurposed to provide frigate berths for the Type 22 fleet. It is now where the Navy's amphibious warfare ships are based. In 2013 a new Royal Marines base, RM Tamar, was opened alongside; as well as serving as headquarters for 1 Assault Group Royal Marines, it can accommodate marines, alongside their ships, prior to deployment. Weston Mill Lake and its surrounding wharves remain in MOD ownership.

The Royal Naval Barracks (HMS Drake)

Until the late nineteenth century, sailors whose ships were being repaired or refitted, or who were awaiting allocation to a vessel, were accommodated in floating hulks. Construction of an onshore barracks, just north-east of the North Yard, was completed in 1889, with the barracks being named "HMS Vivid", after the base ship of the same name. It could accommodate 2,500 sailors and officers, and the first personnel moved in during June of that year. In 1894 a contingent of sixty Royal Navy homing pigeons was accommodated on the site.

The prominent clock tower was built in 1896, containing a clock and bell by Gillett & Johnston; it initially functioned as a semaphore tower. 1898 saw the barracks expand to accommodate a further 1,000 men. The wardroom block dates from this period. More buildings were added in the early years of the twentieth century, including St Nicholas's Church. This part of the site contains some fourteen listed buildings and structures.

The barracks were renamed HMS Drake on January 1, 1934; in the early 21st century the designation HMS Drake was extended to cover the whole Naval Base, since when the barracks area has been termed the Fleet Accommodation Centre. It remains in MOD ownership.

Goschen Yard and post-war development
The civilian streets around Devonport (like the dockyard itself) were heavily bombed during the Plymouth blitz. Post-war reconstruction was mainly focused on Plymouth itself. Several damaged streets in the vicinity of the dockyard were not rebuilt, but instead brought within Admiralty ownership to allow for future dockyard expansion. An area around Goschen Street, to the east of the North Yard, became known as the Goschen Yard: a factory and workshops were built on the site (which is now owned by Babcock); there was also an apprentice training centre (which later became part of City College Plymouth). Elsewhere around the perimeter of the dockyard other formerly-residential streets and bomb-damaged areas were similarly annexed.

In 2005 a sizeable area of the historic town centre of Devonport, which had been annexed after the war and was known as the South Yard Enclave, was released from MOD ownership. The area, west of Chapel Street and north of Duke Street, had since 1956 been enclosed behind a perimeter wall and used as a naval stores yard; it has since been redeveloped with housing and other amenities. A few surviving buildings have been restored, most notably the Grade II listed Victorian former Market Hall  (which had been used as a sale store for the Naval Supply and Transport Service).

Heritage