[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 214]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

se assertions are false. For Christians,
(or men of what Religion soever,) if they tolerate not their King,
whatsoever law hee maketh, though it bee concerning Religion, doe
violate their faith, contrary to the Divine Law, both Naturall and
Positive: Nor is there any Judge of Haeresie amongst Subjects, but
their own Civill Soveraign; for "Haeresie is nothing else, but a private
opinion, obstinately maintained, contrary to the opinion which the
Publique Person (that is to say, the Representant of the Common-wealth)
hath commanded to bee taught." By which it is manifest, that an
opinion publiquely appointed to bee taught, cannot be Haeresie; nor the
Soveraign Princes that authorize them, Haeretiques. For Haeretiques are
none but private men, that stubbornly defend some Doctrine, prohibited
by their lawful Soveraigns.

But to prove that Christians are not to tolerate Infidell, or
Haereticall Kings, he alledgeth a place in Deut. 17. where God
forbiddeth the Jews, when they shall set a King over themselves, to
choose a stranger; And from thence inferreth, that it is unlawfull for
a Christian, to choose a King, that is not a Christian. And ’tis true,
that he that is a Christian, that is, hee that hath already obliged
himself to receive our Saviour when he shall come, for his King, shal
tempt God too much in choosing for King in this world, one that hee
knoweth will endeavour, both by terrour, and perswasion to make him
violate his faith. But, it is (saith hee) the same danger, to choose one
that is not a Christian, for King, and not to depose him, when hee
is chosen. To this I say, the question is not of the danger of not
deposing; but of the Justice of deposing him. To choose him, may in some
cases bee unjust; but to depose him, when he is chosen, is in no case
Just. For it is alwaies violation of faith, and consequently against the
Law of Nature, which is the eternal Law of God. Nor doe wee read, that
any such Doctrine was accounted Christian in the time of the Apostles;
nor in the time of the Romane Emperours, till the Popes had the Civill
Soveraignty of Rome. But to this he hath replyed, that the Christians of
old, deposed not Nero, nor Diocletian, nor Julian, nor Valens an Arrian,
for this cause onely, that they wanted Temporall forces. Perhaps so. But
did our Saviour, who for calling for, might have had twelve Legions
of immortall, invulnerable Angels to assist him, want forces to depose
Caesar, or at least Pilate, that unjustly, without finding fault in him,
delivered him to the Jews to bee crucified? Or if the Apostles wanted
Temporall forces to depose Nero, was it therefore necessary for them in
their Epistles to the new made Christians, to teach them, (as they did)
to obey the Powers constituted over them, (whereof Nero in that time was
one,) and that they ought to obey them, not for fear of their wrath,
but for conscience sake? Shall we say they did not onely obey, but also
teach what they meant not, for want of strength? It is not therefore
for want of strength, but for conscience sake, that Christians are to
tolerate their Heathen Princes, or Princes (for I cannot call any one
whose Doctrine is the Publique Doctrine, an Haeretique) that authorize
the teaching of an Errour. And whereas for the Temporall Power of the
Pope, he alledgeth further, that St. Paul (1 Cor. 6.) appointed Judges
under the Heathen Princes of those times, such as were not ordained by
those Princes; it is not true. For St. Paul does but advise them,
to take some of their Brethren to compound their differences, as
Arbitrators, rather than to goe to law one with another before the
Heathen Judges; which is a wholsome Precept, and full of Charity, fit
to bee practised also in the Best Christian Common-wealths. And for
the danger that may arise to Religion, by the Subjects tolerating of an
Heathen, or an Erring Prince, it is a point, of which a Subject is no
competent Judge; or if hee bee, the Popes Temporall Subjects may judge
also of the Popes Doctrine. For every Christian Prince, as I have
formerly proved, is no lesse Supreme Pastor of his own Subjects, than
the Pope of his.

The fourth Argument, is taken from the Baptisme of Kings; wherein, that
they may be made Christians they submit their Scepters to Christ; and
promise to keep, and defend the Christian Faith. This is true; for
Christian Kings are no more but Christs Subjects: but they may, for all
that, bee the Popes Fellowes; for they are Supreme Pastors of their own
Subjects; and the Pope is no more but King, and Pastor, even in Rome it
selfe.

The fifth Argument, is drawn from the words spoken by our Saviour, Feed
My Sheep; by which was give all Power necessary for a Pastor; as the
Power to chase away Wolves, such as are Haeretiques; the Power to shut
up Rammes, if they be mad, or push at the other Sheep with their Hornes,
such as are Evill (though Christian) Kings; and Power to give the Flock
conveni