[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Marc Garlasco

a disciplinary measure. Human Rights Watch stands behind Garlasco's research and analysis".

Other responses 
Critics of Human Rights Watch have suggested that Garlasco's enthusiasm for Nazi-era badges and uniforms goes beyond historical interest and raises questions Nazi sympathy or anti-Semitism.

NGO Monitor, an Israeli NGO that monitors human rights organisations for perceived political bias, described Garlasco's hobby as "problematic" and "insensitive". John Richardson of Esquire magazine wrote that because Garlasco has criticized Israel for alleged human-rights violations, "NGO Monitor has decided to try to destroy Marc Garlasco — not to argue with him or dispute his statistics, but to destroy him personally."

Antony Lerman, former director of the Institute for Jewish Policy Research, wrote that Human Rights Watch failed to see Garlasco's hobby "could be used to discredit his role as author of highly critical reports of Israel's military conduct in Gaza". Lerman further wrote that Garlasco working "on reports critical of Hamas and Hezbollah was ignored", concluding that "as another excuse to attack HRW, and deflect attention from its reports' findings, the Garlasco affair was a gift".

Yaron Ezrahi, a professor of Political Science at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said he did not believe that Mr. Garlasco's interest in memorabilia could support allegations of "premeditated bias," though he indicated it may hurt Human Rights Watch's credibility, and that the revelations had "armed the right-wing fanatics" who try to "demonize" anybody who questions the effects of Israeli military operations. A group of ten Israeli rights groups also protested that the Israeli government has been attempting to "instill fear and silence or alarm vital organizations" that were engaging in free public discourse.

In The Christian Science Monitor, Robert Marquand claimed Garlasco's critics were using him "to distract from or obfuscate findings that war crimes and crimes against humanity may have taken place in Gaza" and that a U.N. report by Richard Goldstone showed illegal white phosphorus use consistent with Garlasco's first hand testimony.

In Nazi scandal hits human rights group, Katie Engelhart in Maclean's magazine reported that "For HRW, the timing of the exposé could not be worse. The group has thrown its weight behind the UN-sponsored Goldstone report, which accuses both Israel and the Palestinians of committing war crimes in the Gaza strip earlier this year. Garlasco's actions will surely lead many to question the group's credibility".

According to The New York Times, HRW Middle East advisory committee member Helena Cobban questioned on her blog whether Garlasco's military collecting activities were "something an employer like Human Rights Watch ought to be worried about? After consideration, I say Yes". NGO Monitor head Gerald M. Steinberg, a professor of Political Science at Bar Ilan University, argued that Human Rights Watch's response to the matter was "too little, too late". Cobban says in suspending Garlasco Human Rights Watch is now "in a better position to take part in the public discussion in this country on what our government should be doing with regard to the Goldstone report".

Aftermath
Emma Daly confirmed in March 2010 that Garlasco resigned from Human Rights Watch in February 2010, and offered no elaboration. A reporter from The Sunday Times (London) attempted to contact Garlasco, who wouldn't comment. A friend of Garlasco's indicated he had "in effect" been fired, but had entered into a confidentiality agreement with HRW in which he would be paid for the remainder of his contract if he kept silent. In early March 2010,  Garlasco's name was removed from the website.

United Nations
Beginning in 2011, Garlasco served as senior civilian protection officer for United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA). Heading the UN's Protection of Civilians office, Garlasco monitored civilian casualty rates, and admonished Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar to refrain from using mines. In early 2012, as the U.N. senior military advisor for the Human Rights Council's (HRC) Independent Commission of Inquiry on Libya, he investigated civilian casualties while leading a survey of NATO's activities in Libya.

Bibliography

Book
 The Flak Badges of the Luftwaffe and Heer, 2008, B&D Publishing LLC. 462 pages

Human Rights Watch reports co-authored by Marc Garlasco