[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Murder of Arthur Warren

with the president of the Fairmont State College Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual student group, of which Warren was a member even though he did not attend the college. The Human Rights Campaign joined students in advising law enforcement officials on the possibility that Warren's murder was a hate crime.

Aftermath
Arthur Warren's funeral was held on July 8, 2000, at his family's church, and was attended by hundreds of mourners.

His parents, Brenda and Arthur Warren insisted that the coffin be open for viewing. "We want people to see what they did to my son," said Brenda Warren. The Warrens later told CNN during an interview that they hoped the suspects would be tried as adults and the murder treated as a hate crime.

Two vigils were held in Warren's honor on July 11, one by the West Virginia Lesbian and Gay Coalition at the West Virginia State Capitol and one in front of the Marion County courthouse by the Fairmont State College gay and lesbian student group.

The Marion County vigil was attended by more than 600 people, where local clergy spoke and were joined by members of the Warren family. A handful of protesters from the family of Fred Phelps, leader of the Westboro Baptist Church  which the Southern Poverty Law Center labels a hate group, in Topeka, Kansas, also attended. Gay and lesbian students from West Virginia University carried white banners to block the view of the protesters.

The Hearings
On July 19, 2001, David Allen Parker pleaded guilty to first-degree murder and in July 2001 was sentenced to life in prison with mercy, which would make him eligible for parole in 15 years. In exchange for his plea, a second count of conspiracy to commit a felony was dismissed. Parker also agreed to testify against Wilson.

On August 21, 2001, Jared Wilson pleaded guilty to second-degree murder—reduced from first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit a felony, -- and received a 20-year prison sentence.

Shoemaker, was charged as an accessory after the fact, and tried as a juvenile for helping dispose of evidence after the murder.

In June 2002, Brenda and Arthur Warren filed a wrongful death lawsuit against his killers. Their family attorney, Paul Farrell, said that in defending themselves Parker and Wilson had portrayed Warren as a sexual predator and themselves as the victims, and that Mrs. Warren "didn't feel like she had the chance to tell her side of the story."

References

External links
 Matt & Andrew Koymasky - Memorial hall - Warren 1
 GLAAD: Hate Crimes Coverage

2000 murders in the United States
American murder victims
Deaths by beating in the United States
2000 in West Virginia
People murdered in West Virginia
Violence against gay men in the United States
People from Grant Town, West Virginia
July 2000 crimes in the United States