[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Henry F. Schricker

rialize, the Indiana delegation supported Truman. Prevented by law from running for reelection to a consecutive term as governor, Schricker was nominated to run for the United States Senate. The race was hard-fought, but Schricker lost to Homer E. Capehart by 48.9% to 50.2% of the vote.

Second term

Schricker returned to private life by joining the American Fletcher National Bank and Trust Company of Indianapolis. However, he ran for the governorship again in 1948 and won, becoming Indiana's first governor to be elected to two non-consecutive terms, and the second to serve non-consecutive terms. During the Kentucky Derby weekend in 1949, Schricker authorized a crackdown on illegal gambling in Orange County, Indiana, near the French Lick Springs Hotel.

Democrats held a small majority in the General Assembly during Schricker's first two years in office, but in the midterms, Republicans again took power. They passed legislation to make public the names of welfare recipients and the amounts received. This was in violation of federal welfare laws and would have resulted in a loss of federal funding for the state welfare system. Schricker vetoed the bill, but the legislature overrode his veto. The federal government immediately cut off funding, creating an $18 million budget deficit for the state. Schricker called a special session of the legislature to resolve the financial situation, but no solution could be agreed upon. Instead, the legislators passed a bill that delayed the opening of the public welfare records by two years. Meanwhile, Senator William E. Jenner successfully introduced legislation at the federal level to prevent the state from losing its funding once the bill took effect.

Schricker left office with the state having a $115 million surplus fund due to frugal spending and his own support of the spending plans. The state's highway system, public schools, and prisons suffered during the years because of their neglect. After leaving office, Schricker cofounded the Wabash Fire and Casualty Insurance Company of Indianapolis.

Later years

Schricker was a popular Hoosier politician known for his charm of a small-town boy and his signature white hat. He was in demand as a speaker, and his advice and sanction were sought by Democratic candidates. He received national recognition when he was chosen to deliver the joint nomination speech for Adlai Stevenson at the Democratic National Convention in 1952. The same year, Schricker again ran for the U. S. Senate and again lost to the Republican incumbent, Jenner, this time by 5.6%. He retired to Knox in 1960 but remained active in civic affairs and played a role as himself in the 1950 movie Johnny Holiday. He died on December 28, 1966.

See also

List of governors of Indiana

References
Notes

Bibliography

External links
Indiana Historical Bureau: Biography and portrait
Political Graveyard

 Henry Schricker at FindAGrave

1883 births
1966 deaths
Burials at Crown Hill Cemetery
Democratic Party governors of Indiana
Lieutenant Governors of Indiana
Democratic Party Indiana state senators
People from Starke County, Indiana
American Lutherans
American people of German descent
Indiana lawyers
20th-century American politicians
20th-century American lawyers
20th-century Lutherans