[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Monarchy in New Brunswick

rity, without referring to any specific monarch. Further, though the monarch does not form a part of the constitutions of New Brunswick's honours, they do stem from the Crown as the fount of honour and, so, bear on the insignia symbols of the sovereign.

History

Origin of the Crown in New Brunswick

The modern Crown's place in New Brunswick is a result of its history in the Maritimes region before New Brunswick itself was partitioned from Nova Scotia in 1784 and named for the royal house of King George III, the House of Brunswick-Lüneburg. This administrative split became necessary due to the arrival of some 35,000 to 40,000 United Empire Loyalists, as well as about 3,500 Black Loyalists, fleeing as refugees from the violence directed against them during and after the American Revolution, between 1765 and 1791.

One of George III's sons, Prince Edward, arrived in Nova Scotia, in 1794, after three years living in Quebec City. Though he resided in Halifax, the Prince acted as commander-in-chief of both Nova Scotia and New Brunswick and travelled throughout, visiting Fredericton and Saint John (including Fort Howe), along the way meeting with the colony's inhabitants and first lieutenant governor, Colonel Thomas Carleton. The Prince set up a semapore telegraph system between the two colonial capitals, Halifax and Fredericton.

The first royal tours

Edward's grandson, Prince Albert Edward (later King Edward VII), toured New Brunswick in 1860, as part of his five-month journey around the Canadas. The Prince's arrival in Fredericton, aboard the steamboat Forest Queen, was regarded as the "social event of the year". Among other duties, the Prince attended a royal reception and officially opened Wilmot Park. While strolling the grounds of Government House, Albert Edward noted a canoeist on the Saint John River and called him over. The figure turned out to be Gabriel Acquin, who took Albert Edward on a jaunt across the river and a short way up the Nashwaak. This impressed the Prince so much he requested a canoe and paddles be obtained for him to take to the United Kingdom. Acquin became well known as a craftsman and was invited to several international exhibitions in Britain, where he shared his Wəlastəkwewiyik culture. Prince Albert Edward, with other members of the royal family, visited Acquin again when they were both at the International Fisheries Exhibition in 1883.

Prince Alfred, Albert Edward's younger brother, visited the Maritimes in 1861 and embarked on a steamboat excursion on the Saint John River, from Saint John to Fredericton, where the Prince also joined Gabriel Acquin on a canoe ride, as his brother had done the year before.

After the First World War

Edward VII's grandson, Prince Edward (later King Edward VIII), toured New Brunswick in 1919.

After the Second World War

King George VI's eldest daughter, Princess Elizabeth, Duchess of Edinburgh (later Queen Elizabeth II), arrived aboard the royal train in Fredericton with her husband, the Duke of Edinburgh, on 6 November 1951, being greeted officially by the King's representative, Lieutenant Governor David Laurence MacLaren, and, unofficially, by hundreds of spectators. In the capital, the couple visited Christ Church Cathedral and the Legislative Building before travelling on, via Moncton and Sackville, to Saint John, where they met First and Second World War veterans at the Lancaster Hospital and attended a civic dinner in the capital. At the University of New Brunswick, the arrangements were informal and the couple's Royal Canadian Mounted Police security detail overzealously confiscated the camera of a forestry student who happned to end up close to the Princess; the Duke eased the situation and suggested the officers return the camera to its owner.