[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mansoor al-Jamri

rain. He added that he refused to be hosted on Al-Manar and Al-Alam News Network, because "their rhetoric is not in accordance with Al-Wasats". This however, did not spare Al-Wasat from the effects of the unrest as its printing facility was surrounded by youths who harassed employees since 12 March.

Three days later, the facility was attacked at 1am by a club-wielding-gang that "attack[ed] the touch screens and computers of the printing machine," said the head of Al-Wasat printing press. That day Al-Wasat was printed by another newspaper. Employees had to work from home as "hundreds of vigilantes encircled the area", they (employees) were harassed in checkpoints and authorities reportedly failed to protect them even after getting contacted. Al-Jamri reported receiving death threats via phone and getting intimidated by government informers. "One of our photographers had camera smashed into his head and needed hospitalization, several distributors were beaten, and one columnist disappeared for a month. But under all of these circumstances, we continued," al-Jamri said.

Suspension of Al-Wasat and resignation of al-Jamri

On 2 April, following a three-hour episode on Bahrain TV alleging it had published false and fabricated news and images in its 26 and 29 March editions, Al-Wasat was forced to close down and had its website blocked by the Information Affairs Authority (IAA). The state-run Bahrain News Agency accused it of "unethical" media coverage of the events of the uprising and the IAA released a 30-page report "detailing Al Wasat'''s alleged transgressions". The news and images turned out to be either from other countries or from previous events. The newspaper did not publish an edition on 3 April. Al-Jamri acknowledged that the reports identified in Bahrain TV show were false, but said he and his staff did not "knowingly [publish] false information".

The ban was lifted a day later after al-Jamri and two other top editors had resigned. Al-Jamri said his resignation was "needed to safeguard the newspaper and the livelihood of its staff." On 4 April, Al-Wasat resumed publishing under the supervision of two Iraqi editors. The two temporary editors were questioned in the National Security Agency and were deported along with their families after they had refused to confess against al-Jamri. Al-Jamri and the two editors who resigned were subsequently questioned and charged with "publishing fabricated news and made up stories... that may harm public safety and national interests."

Unlike other cases which were brought before a military court, their first trial session on 18 May was before the (civilian) High Criminal Court and was postponed to June. Al-Jamri said before a trial session on 19 June that the fabricated news articles were sent to Al-Wasat from a Saudi IP address and that they were not verified properly due to the previous attacks on Al-Wasat. "It was a setup. We were framed into it, and later on attacked, using – using it as a launching pad for closing down the newspaper," al-Jamri said in a press interview. "If a bank CEO wanted to steal, he wouldn't steal just 20 dollars, maybe he'd steal 2 million. The fabricated news were of the price of 20 dollars," he added.

Human Rights Watch (HRW) said the charges were politically motivated and asked authorities to drop them, allow al-Jamri back to his position and "cease their campaign to silence independent journalism". The advocacy group added that following al-Jamri's resignation, Al-Wasats coverage of human rights violations decreased significantly. "Bahrain's rulers are showing they have no shame by muzzling the one media outlet that was widely regarded as the country's only independent news source," Joe Stork of HRW said. The Committee to Protect Journalists condemned the actions of Bahraini government and described them as "strong-arm tactics". The non-government organization added that its research supported claims by al-Jamri that the government was behind planting the false news. Mohammed al-Maskati of Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights accused the Ministry of Interior of planting the fake stories. "They wanted him to quit, and the paper has totally changed," he added.

On 4 August, al-Jamri was reinstated back to his position by the board of directors. On 11 October, al-Jamri and his colleagues were found guilty by the court and fined US$2,650 each. Subsequently, al-Jamri received two international awards; the CPJ International Press Freedom Award in 2011 and the Next Century Foundation's Peace Through Media Award in 2012. In September 2011, Al-Wasat won the UNICEF regional award for electronic media and in May 2012, it was ranked top in the Media Credibility Index ahead of Al Jazeera, BBC, Agence France-Presse and more than a dozen other media outlets.

Publications