[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rinaldo Cruzado

ed his last match of the season at home against Cusco giants Cienciano. He received a red card in the 73rd minute as did his teammate Juan Carlos La Rosa in 46th minute, and eventually the match finished in a 2–3 win for Cienciano. Juan Aurich finished the season in 6th place in the Aggregate table.

Cruzado started the 2011 Torneo Descentralizado season in Round 2 at home against Unión Comercio. In this match Rinaldo scored his first official goal for Juan Aurich in the 73rd minute, which helped his side win 3–2 over Unión Comercio. Away to the defending champions Universidad San Martin, Cruzado won a penalty that was converted by teammate Luis Tejada to salvage a 1–1 draw in third round. Rinaldo was on the score sheet again by scoring the winning goal from outside the area with a powerful left-footed shot in the 2–0 home win against León de Huánuco, the Runners-up of the league the previous season. Away to the Miguel Grau Stadium, Cruzado then helped his club earn three important points in the 5–0 thrashing of Sport Boys by scoring the third goal of the night. As a regular starter he continued to help Juan Aurich make a bid for the title that season. In Round 9 against direct competitors Alianza Lima, Cruzado helped Juan Aurich defeat his former club 2–0, and two rounds later Juan Aurich won another three valuable points with a 2–1 home win against his other former club Sporting Cristal. Cruzado scored his last goal for Juan Aurich in Round 12 in the 2–1 loss away to Cienciano. His last appearance for the Chiclayo based club was in Round 15 at home against Universidad César Vallejo, which he played the entire match and finished in a 2–0 win for his side. At this midpoint stage of the season Juan Aurich was in third place behind Alianza Lima and Cienciano. Juan Aurich would eventually go on to win the title that season for the first time in the club's history. Cruzado was called up to participate in the Copa América, and during this time journalist Daniel Peredo first announced the news that Cruzado would join Italian club ChievoVerona after the summer tournament.

Chievo
On 5 August 2011 Cruzado left Juan Aurich and transferred to Serie A club ChievoVerona for the start of the 2011–2012 season. He signed a three-year contract and chose to wear the number eight shirt as reported by Chievo's official website. On 13 August 2011 he made his debut for Chievo in a 45-minute summer friendly match against Novara, which ended in a 2–0 loss for his side. Cruzado then played his second match for Chievo on 27 August 2011 in a friendly match against Internazionale in Monza. He entered the match at the start of the second half for club captain Sergio Pellissier when the score was still 0-0. In the end, Cruzado helped ChievoVerona defeat Inter 3–2. Cruzado made his Serie A debut on 11 September 2011 at home in the Bentegodi stadium against Novara for the second round (the first round was suspended) of the 2011–12 Serie A season. He entered the match in the 66th minute replacing Paolo Sammarco and eventually the match finished in a 2–2 draw. Cruzado made his Coppa Italia debut on 11 January 2012 in the Round of 16 away to Udinese.

International career 
Rinaldo made his debut for the Peru national team on 27 August 2003 in a friendly match against Guatemala.
His most recent appearance with Peru was in the 2011 Copa América.
Cruzado scored his first goal for Peru on 2 September 2011 in a friendly match against Bolivia which was played in Lima. He scored his goal in the 36th minute by shooting a powerful left-footed shot into the top right corner from about 25 yards away.

Career statistics

Club stats

International goals

Honours

Club
Alianza Lima
Peruvian Primera División (3): 2003, 2004, 2006

Esteghlal
Iran Pro League (1): 2008–09

Newell's Old Boys
Primera División (1): 2013 Torneo Final

Country 
Peru
Copa América - Bronze medal: 2011

References

External links

1984 births
Living people
Footballers from Lima
Peruvian men's footballers
Peru men's international footballers
Peruvian expatriate men's footballers
Peruvian Primera División players
Swiss Super League players
Serie A players
Uruguayan Primera División players
Club Alianza Lima footballers
Grasshopper Club Zürich players
Sporting Cristal footballers
Esteghlal F.C. players
Juan Aurich footballers
AC ChievoVerona players
Club Nacional de Football players
Newell's Old Boys footballers
Club Deportivo Universidad César Vallejo footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Iran
Expatriate men's footballers in Switzerland
Expatriate men's footballers in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in Uruguay
Expatriate men's footballers in Argentina
2011 Copa América players
Men's association football midfielders