[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Józef Światło

d that his interrogations were compiled into about fifty long reports. The United States gave him political asylum with the full knowledge that "he would have to be protected for the rest of his life because the number of his victims and relatives of victims sworn to exact retribution was so great."

Aftermath
Światło's defection was revealed in Poland by the Polish Press Agency on 25 October 1954, with Światło labelled a traitor and provocateur. It was widely publicised in the United States and Europe by the US authorities, as well as in Poland via Radio Free Europe (RFE), embarrassing the Communist authorities in Warsaw. The first international press conference with Światło took place on 28 September 1954. He had intimate knowledge of the internal politics of the Polish government, especially the activities of the various secret services. Over the course of the following months, US newspapers and RFE (in the "Behind the Scenes of the Secret Police and the Party" cycle) reported extensively on political repression in Poland based on Światło's revelations.

Capitalising on them, in what was known as "Operation Spotlight", RFE broadcast some 140 interviews by Światło, and 30 programs on him. Światło's RFE broadcasts were not only serialized but even distributed over Poland by special balloons. Światło detailed the torture of prisoners under interrogation and politically motivated executions and struggles inside the Polish United Workers' Party. None of the Polish Communists' intelligence, counterintelligence and public security agencies escaped unscathed and without some of their secrets being revealed.

The highly publicised defection of Colonel Światło, not to mention the general hatred of the Ministry of Public Security among Poles, led to changes in late 1954, as first the 10th Department and soon the entire Ministry was broken up and reorganised; many officials were arrested. Światło's scandal contributed to the events of political liberalisation in Poland, known as the Polish October. For a long time, it was uncertain if Światło was dead or still alive. Information on him was protected by the US witness protection program; there were rumours that he died in the late 1960s, 1975 or 1985. In 2010, the United States government stated that he had died on 2 September 1994. Documents relating to him are still classified in the United States and not available to researchers.

Awards

See also
 List of Eastern Bloc defectors

Notes

References

Further reading
 Sobor-Swiderska A., "Jozef Swiatlo - Myth and Reality", Studia Historyczne (Historical Studies), year: 2006, vol: 49, number: 1(193), pages: 41–63, (abstract).
  Zbigniew Błażyński: Mówi Józef Światło. Za kulisami bezpieki i partii 1940–1955 [Józef Światło Speaks. Behind the Scenes of Secret Police and Party 1940-1955]. Wydawnictwo LTW, Warszawa, 2003. 
  Roger Faligot, Remi Kauffer, Służby specjalne [Special services], ISKRY, Warszawa 1998, , originally in French: Roger Faligot, Remi Kauffer, Histoire mondiale du renseignement 1870-1939 Les maitres espions. Histoire mondiale du renseignement. De la guerre froide a nos jours. Editions Robert Laffont SA, Paris 1993, 1994

1915 births
1994 deaths
Military personnel from Ternopil Oblast
People from the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria
Jews from Galicia (Eastern Europe)
Austro-Hungarian Jews
Ukrainian Jews
Jewish socialists
Polish military personnel of World War II
Polish People's Army personnel
Polish intelligence officers (1943–1990)
Polish defectors
Ministry of Public Security (Poland) officials
Defectors to the United States
People sentenced to death in absentia
Political repression in Poland
Knights of the Order of Polonia Restituta
Recipients of the Gold Cross of Merit (Poland)
Recipients of the Silver Cross of Merit (Poland)
Torturers
War criminals