[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# P. R. Stephensen

. Stephensen's maternal grandfather Henry Tardent was an agricultural scientist who managed an experimental farm and later became a journalist and writer. Stephensen's youngest brother, Cyril Edward (Ted), served with the RAAF during World War II and was shot down over France and killed in May 1944.

Stephensen learned to shoot and ride at a young age, as was typical at the time. He began his education at Biggenden Primary School and in 1914 placed within the top 100 students in the state secondary school examinations. This entitled him to a two-year government-funded scholarship, and in 1915 he began boarding at Maryborough Boys' Grammar School. The school's headmaster Noble Wallace was a strict disciplinarian and employed corporal punishment. Stephensen was nicknamed "Chicken" at school, due to his surname containing the word "hen". In his first year he had his wrist broken in a hazing ritual. He became a platoon leader in the school cadets and was also a talented sportsman, captaining the school's cricket and football teams and winning prizes for athletics. In 1916 he won a two-year extension to his scholarship by passing the junior public examination. Stephensen was chosen as a prefect in 1918, his fourth and final year at the school. For a brief period he was taught by V. Gordon Childe, whose socialist and pacifist beliefs prompted community opposition and led to his early resignation. Towards the end of the year, Stephensen led a student boycott of the school's speech day, at which the annual prizes were to be handed out by the state treasurer Ted Theodore. The boycott was in protest at the sacking of Wallace by the board of trustees.

In 1919, aged 17, Stephensen moved to Brisbane and enrolled in the University of Queensland. He was a fee-paying student as he had failed to win one of the few scholarships then available. He boarded at St John's College, where he soon received the nickname "Inky" for his habit of singing the chorus from "Mademoiselle from Armentières". Stephensen befriended Jack Lindsay, son of Norman Lindsay, who in turn introduced him to Theodore Whitherby. He also became involved with the Workers' Educational Association (WEA) and developed a friendship with Fred Paterson, who would later become the only Communist Party MP elected to an Australian parliament. In June 1919 Stephensen's first published article in the University Magazine called for the "fostering of a national literature" and greater study of Australian poets, themes he would return to later in his career.

Stephensen  joined the Communist Party of Australia in 1921. He gained a second-class honours degree in Modern Greats at Queen's College, Oxford where he studied as a Rhodes Scholar and was a member of the university branch of the Communist Party with A. J. P. Taylor, Graham Greene and Tom Driberg.

Literary work
Stephensen was a friend of D. H. Lawrence and edited the first uncensored version of Lady Chatterley's Lover. He was also friendly with Aldous Huxley.

His most significant work was The Foundations of Culture in Australia (1936), which led to the foundation of the Jindyworobak Movement.

Between the world wars, his Fellowship of Australian Writers released a document that advocated disconnection with the United States and stated, "US comics promoted demonology, witchcraft and voodooism, with Superman part of a raving mad view of the world". Of American musicals and minstrel shows, he wrote: "the American negro, with his jungle is not welcome here". He was also noted for his anti-Semitic views in this period. However, Stephensen was a supporter of Aboriginal rights, and he and his colleague, retired businessman W.J. Miles, financed the first Aboriginal publication, The Abo Call, written and edited by Aboriginal activist Jack Patten.

He edited all but four of the books of writer Frank Clune.

Far-right politics
In 1936, Stephensen and Miles founded a magazine, The Publicist, which promulgated monarchical, pro-fascist, anti-Semitic, anti-Communist and pro-Aboriginal views. In the early 1940s, Miles curtailed his activities, due to increasing ill health. Stephensen founded the Australia First Movement in October 1941, and took over the editorship of the magazine in early 1942, shortly before being interned at the Loveday Camp in rural South Australia without trial, along with other members of the Australia First Movement, for pro-Japanese and Axis sympathies.

Bibliography 
Stephensen was a prolific author. He published over 30 books, as well as translations of works by Vladimir Lenin and Friedrich Nietzsche. He also produced nearly 70 books ghostwritten for Frank Clune.