[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Downtown St. Catharines

Downtown St. Catharines is the central business district of St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada. It is defined by the city as the area between Highway 406 on the west and south, Geneva Street on the east until it reaches St. Paul Street then Welland Avenue north until it meets Niagara Street.

It is an historical area of the city as well as a significant cultural and entertainment destination. The Niagara Grape and Wine Festival parade is held in downtown St. Catharines. Various retail and commercial businesses are found throughout the downtown core, as well as government, financial and law offices. Since 2015, the neighbourhood has been home to the Marilyn I. Walker School of Fine and Performing Arts, a campus of Brock University.

History 
Intersecting trails used by Indigenous peoples, at the confluence of Dick's Creek and 12 Mile Creek, laid the foundation of the downtown streets as they appear today. 

Before it was called St. Catharines, the settlement near Twelve Mile Creek was known by various names, including Shipman's Corners and The Twelve. The name St. Catharines was first recorded in 1796, as St. Catherines, and became a common name for the settlement by 1809, but it would often be spelled with -er- or with an apostrophe before the -s. The name and the spelling were standardized as St. Catharines when the town incorporated in 1845. Before St. Catharines became incorporated, it was simply a community within Grantham Township, although its authority over the area was limited. Construction of the first and second Welland Canals was a major influence in the area becoming a prosperous hub for commerce and industry in the Niagara Region.

Downtown St. Catharines has many heritage sites, such as: 
 St. Catharines Armoury – A recognized Federal Heritage building, listed #1991 on the Register of the Government of Canada Heritage Buildings.
British Methodist Episcopal Church, Salem Chapel - A national historic site, played an important role during the abolitionist era and frequented by Harriet Tubman, the famed conductor of the Underground Railroad.
City Hall – Built on the site of the previous City Hall, this building was officially opened in August 1937 at the corner of Church and James Streets. Designed by local architect Robert Macbeth, the structure was originally built to accommodate all city departments, including a police station and jail in the basement. In 1963, the building was extensively renovated; however, most of the significant elements found inside, such as the main entryway, its marble floors, ornate ceiling and wide sweeping staircase, were left intact.
Farmers' Market – One of the oldest farmers' markets in Ontario, dating back to the early 1860s.  It continues to operate every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, as it has for more than a century. 
The Grand Opera House (1877–1998) – With seating for 1,200, the facility opened to much fanfare as a centre for musical production on Ontario Street.  Over the years it housed an orchestra and featured numerous concerts and vaudeville shows.  After a fire ravaged the building's facade and most of its interior, there was some public interest in restoring what was left of the auditorium, but the city and some professionals concluded that renovations would be much too costly and the site was levelled. The site is used today as a parking lot.
The Canada Hair Cloth Company Ltd (1882–2007) – An industrial factory for over a century, the building closed in 2007 and is now home to Brock University's Marilyn I. Walker School of Fine and Performing Arts.
The Russell Hotel – a noted hotel and tavern built in 1843 by Samuel Stinson at the corner of St. Paul and James streets. The building was destroyed by fire and the site currently sits empty. 
Mansion House – Thought to have been constructed in the early 19th century by William Hamilton Merritt, it is the oldest tavern in St. Catharines and the oldest continually licensed bar in Canada.
Montebello Park – Designed by Frederick Law Olmsted in 1887, who went on to create New York City's Central Park. A commemorative rose garden with over 1,300 bushes in 25 varieties is the city's largest rose collection and features an ornamental fountain. The focal point of the park is a band shell and pavilion built in 1888. The park is designated under the Ontario Heritage Act.
Old Courthouse – Built in 1848–49, the Old Courthouse was the centre of political, cultural and social life in St. Catharines. Designed by renowned architect Kivas Tully, it was hailed as a great architectural achievement. The existing building soon became too small and an addition was added in 1863–65.  Today, the building is home to Carousel Players, an independent theatre group, and recently underwent an extensive restoration.
Welland House Hotel – One of the last symbols of the city's extensive health spa history.  Most recently, the building was home to a student residence and CFBU, Brock University's campus radio station before it was destroyed