[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Iran–Venezuela relations

Iran–Venezuela relations (Spanish: Las relaciones de Irán y Venezuela; Persian:  روابط ایران و ونزوئلا) have strengthened substantially in recent years. "Iran and Venezuela are two friendly and united states which pave their ways to further progress and welfare for their nations", according to President Rouhani. The two countries are contemporary strategic allies of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China while opposing U.S. hegemony in their respective regions.

Country comparison

History

2001-2005: Chávez and Khatami administrations
As President of Venezuela from 1999, before his death, former Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez developed strong ties with the government of Iran, in particular in the area of energy production, economic, and industrial cooperation. The two countries have good cooperation in construction, oil and gas, and in infrastructure projects. He has visited Iran on several occasions, the first time in 2001, when he declared that he came to Iran to "prepare the road for peace, justice, stability and progress for the 21st century".  As the fifth President of Iran with a term lasting from 3 August 1997 to 3 August 2005, Mohamed Khatami visited Venezuela on three occasions. During his March 2005 visit, Chávez awarded him the Orden del Libertador and called him a "tireless fighter for all the right causes in the world."

In March 2005, the BBC reported that Chavez's relationship with Iran and his support of their nuclear program has created concern for the US administration.

2005-2006: Start of Ahmadinejad administration
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was elected President of Iran on August 3, 2005. Since then, Ahmadinejad and Chávez visited each other multiple times, signing more than 270 bilateral deals to support multiple campaigns for social and infrastructural national development. Both presidents of Venezuela and Iran, President Hugo Chávez and President Ahmadinejad, respectively, have described themselves on the world stage as opposed to "US imperialism". Citing this commonality of opinion, they regard each other as allies, and they have embarked on a number of initiatives together. Chávez never scrimped in displays of support for Ahmadinejad's Iran and immediately recognized the legitimacy of his second term as president and supported Tehran's nuclear policy.

In early May 2006, it was reported that Venezuela was interested in selling its 21 F-16 Fighting Falcons to Iran, an announcement which proved controversial. Also in May 2006, Chávez expressed his favorable view of the production of nuclear energy in Iran announced by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and denied that they had plans to develop atomic weapons.

In July 2006, Chávez paid a two-day visit to Iran when the government faced international criticism for continuing its nuclear program and backing Hezbollah guerrillas. In July 2006, Chávez pledged that Venezuela would "stay by Iran at any time and under any condition." He said 
"We are with you and with Iran forever. As long as we remain united we will be able to defeat imperialism, but if we are divided they will push us aside". In July 2006, Reuters reported that Chávez told a crowd at the University of Tehran, "If the U.S. succeeds in consolidating its dominance, then the humankind has no future. Therefore, we have to save the humankind and put an end to the U.S.".  The reports adds that Chávez lashed out at Israel and labeled the 2006 Lebanon offensive as "fascist and terrorist."

2007-2009: Axis of unity, "G-2 summit," and bank
On January 6, 2007, the two announced that they would use some money from a previously announced $2bn joint fund to invest in other countries that were "attempting to liberate themselves from the imperialist yoke", in Chavez's words.

On March 16, 2007, Chavez said in a television interview that he disagreed with President Ahmadinejad's alleged call to "wipe Israel off the map" (which is a mistranslation) saying "I don't support causing harm to any nation.". (See also Israel-Venezuela relations.)

The two presidents declared an "axis of unity" against "US imperialism" in July 2007.

On October 5, 2008, Venezuela's Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro visited Ahmadinejad in Tehran.

During the 2009 G-20 London summit, Chavez and Ahmadinejad held their own meeting which they called the "G-2" summit, at which the formation of a joint Iranian-Venezuelan development bank was announced, initially with US$200 million capital.