[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alvarion

ble with 802.11a/b/g/n.

Commercial development
In November 2010, Alvarion was chosen by the telecommunication company 4G Africa to deploy 4G network in Cameroon. 4G Africa has the main goal to reduce digital divide by providing selected Sub-Sahara countries with the newly established 4G technology.

Wireless communications company ArrayComm announced the commercialized availability of base stations from Alvarion using ArrayComm's advanced beamforming software. ArrayComm officials said "using this technology, operators are able to see substantial improvement in system capacity, throughput, and range-yielding greater revenue from the investment in wireless infrastructure".

Alvarion announced it would supply base stations and related services to India cell phone carrier Bharat Sanchar Nigam for a 4G wireless broadband network. Alvarion president and CEO Eran Gorev said, "India has significant potential for wireless broadband, and this agreement further enhances our presence in the country." The project is worth an estimated $10 million.

Municipal officials in Houston selected Alvarion to deploy a citywide 4G network. According to city authorities, the network will improve traffic safety and congestion through remote control of 2500 traffic intersections and 1500 school zone flashers. Alvarion's WiMax network will also remotely monitor 500,000 water meters, reducing costs and improving customer service. The agreement includes free access to the 4G network for more than 300,000 residents in underserved, underprivileged communities.

In Oct 2010 Alvarion announced a 75 million dollar deployment in Canada working with Xplornet Communications deploying 4Motion base stations, NMS, and services to provide rural Broadband throughout the Country.

In May 2011, Alvarion launched 4G mobile networks in Mozambique and Uganda. The network will provide broadband connectivity to residential and business users as well as local municipalities. According to CEO Eran Gorev, Alvarion operates over 70 commercial 4G deployments in Africa.

In June 2011, Winncom Technologies, a distributor of wireless broadband networking equipment and accessories, announced that it has extended its distribution agreement with Alvarion to cover the Eastern European, Russian, and CIS regions.

In June 2011, Dimension Data Holdings announced a partnership with Alvarion. Nicholas Shaw, general manager of Dimension's Advanced Infrastructure, said Alvarion would bring connectivity to sites that fall outside of commercial networks or where fiber was not an option.

In July 2011, Bandera Electric Cooperative announced it would deploy a 4G network from Alvarion to linemen and technical service personnel operating utility trucks. The network will provide real-time information on the electric grid for BEC vehicles.

In August 2011, Bloosurf, a broadband service provider in Maryland, chose Alvarion to deploy 4G wireless networks to serve the county and university campuses.

In May 2012, a WiMAX network delivered by Alvarion to wireless broadband provider Skyline in Randers, Denmark, went bankrupt and was consequently closed down on June 30.

In 2015 Alvarion and InTechnology Wifi collaborated to provide Wi-Fi solutions in several UK festivals with high volume of people such as T in the Park and the British Summer Time festivals. During these festivals, Wi-Fi connection was provided to ten of thousands of people concurrently.

In 2015 Balton CP has deployed a high-speed Wi-Fi solution from Alvarion in more than 15 higher learning institutions throughout Rwanda.

In 2016 Alvarion signed a contract with one of the largest multi-national Mobile network operators (MNOs) to use Alvarion's products in order to enhance its existing wireless network and services.

Alvarion operates in Angola; Australia; Bermuda; Canada; Denmark; India; Israel; Nigeria; Spain; United Kingdom; United States; Zambia and in many more countries.

References

External links
Alvarion Technologies Advanced Wireless Base Station Certified by WiFi Alliance® for Passpoint 1.0
Alvarion Showcases4G WiMAX Infrastructure and Smart Grid Connectivity Solutions at UTC Telecom 2010 in Indianapolis
Alvarion appoints CEO, to hire new employees

Telecommunications equipment vendors
Networking hardware companies
Telecommunications companies of Israel
Companies listed on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange
Electronics companies of Israel
Wireless networking hardware
Companies formerly listed on the Nasdaq