[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Turn state's evidence

leaded guilty to 19 murders and agreed to testify against family boss John Gotti; as a result, Gravano was sentenced to 5 years and Gotti was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1992. Joseph Massino was also the first boss of one of the Five Families in New York City to turn state's evidence.

Germany

A crown witness style system has operated in Germany since the RAF trials in the 1970s. The Justice Minister at that time, Diether Posser, wanted to enable witnesses to testify in return for a lenient sentence if there was little chance of successfully prosecuting a criminal. Four attempts were made to introduce the system to anti-terror legislation, but it was not included in the 1976 legislation. Additionally, Germany lacked a witness protection program such as that found in the United States; Ulrich Schmücker was murdered after he informed on his former associates in the 2 June Movement. Another crown witness, Karl-Heinz Ruhland, recanted his testimony against the Baader–Meinhof Group, as he initially did not receive protection from the state. The treatment crown witnesses received at this time was viewed as illegal by the media, but necessary by the prosecution. In 1981, Germany introduced a "small crown witness rule" in drug-related trials which permitted a lower sentence for witnesses who turned state's evidence. In 1989, during the Government of Helmut Kohl, Germany introduced a law effectively called the "crown witness rule" which enabled witnesses in terror related cases to turn state's evidence. Initially only valid until 1992, it was extended several times until it was abolished in 1999. A law adopted in 2000 lowered the sentence of a witness who came to an agreement with the prosecution in trials concerning money-laundering, but it was not called a crown witness rule. In 2009 a new crown witness rule came into force and since then, witnesses in a wider range of cases have been allowed to become a crown witnesses.

Prisoner's dilemma
The incentives to turn state's evidence, or to not to do so, are explored in the famous prisoner's dilemma, created by Merrill Flood and Melvin Dresher.

See also
Informant
Plea bargain
Pentito, the equivalent term in Italy in the Mafia and terrorism contexts

References

Further reading

 H. Lloyd King Jr., Why Prosecutors are Permitted to Offer Witness Inducements: A Matter of Constitutional Authority, 29 Stetson L. Rev. 155 (1999).

Informal legal terminology
Criminal law
Prosecution
Testimony