[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Judith Heumann

ilitation Act of 1973 were vetoed by President Richard Nixon in October 1972 and March 1973. In 1972, DIA demonstrated in New York City with a sit-in protesting one of the vetoes. Led by Heumann, eighty activists staged this sit-in on Madison Avenue, stopping traffic.

Center for Independent Living 

Ed Roberts asked Heumann to move to California to work for the Center for Independent Living where she served as the deputy director from 1975 to 1982. She was an early proponent of the Independent Living Movement. Heumann was responsible for the implementation of legislation at the national level for programs in special education, disability research, vocational rehabilitation and independent living, serving more than 8 million youth and adults with disabilities.

Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 

While serving as a legislative assistant to the chairperson of the U.S. Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare in 1974, Heumann helped develop legislation that became the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.

504 Sit-in 

In 1977, Joseph Califano, U.S. Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, refused to sign meaningful regulations for Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which was the first U.S. federal civil rights protection for people with disabilities. Califano issued orders that no meals or medication would be allowed in the HEW federal building, to force protesters out. The protesters then contacted Delancey Street Foundation and The Salvation Army, which agreed to bring them food for the following day. Fellow protester Kitty Cone developed a way to keep medication cool by taping a box over the air conditioner unit to store the medication of the disabled protesters. Additionally, the protesters received support from the Black Panther Party after receiving a call from Brad Lomax a disabled protester with multiple sclerosis and member of the Black Panther Party. Lomax called the Black Panthers to support the protesters with meals, and the Black Panthers brought them hot meals and snacks for the duration of the Sit-in. After an ultimatum and deadline, demonstrations took place in ten U.S. cities on April 5, 1977, including the beginning of the 504 Sit-in at the San Francisco office of the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare. This sit-in, led by Heumann and organized by Kitty Cone, lasted until May 4, 1977, a total of 28 days, with about 125 to 150 people refusing to leave. It is the longest sit-in at a federal building, . Joseph Califano signed both the Education of All Handicapped Children regulations and the Section 504 regulations on April 28, 1977.

World Institute on Disability 

Heumann co-founded the World Institute on Disability with Ed Roberts and Joan Leon in 1983, serving as co-director until 1993.

Department on Disability Services 

Washington, D.C. mayor Adrian Fenty appointed Heumann as the city's first Director for the Department on Disability Services, where she was responsible for the Developmental Disability Administration and the Rehabilitation Services Administration.

Clinton Administration 

Heumann served in the Clinton Administration as Assistant Secretary of the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitation Services at the United States Department of Education from 1993 to 2001.

World Bank 

From 2002 to 2006, Heumann served as the World Bank Group's first Advisor on Disability and Development, leading the World Bank's work on disability and worked to expand the Bank's knowledge and capability to work with governments and civil society on including disability in the Bank discussions with client countries, its country-based analytical work, and support for improving policies, programs, and projects that allow disabled people around the world to live and work in the economic and social mainstream of their communities. She was Lead Consultant to the Global Partnership for Disability and Development.

Special Advisor 

In 2010, Heumann became the Special Advisor on International Disability Rights for the U.S. State Department appointed by President Barack Obama. Heumann was the first to hold this role, and served from 2010 to 2017. During her tenure, she tried unsuccessfully to persuade the Senate to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, an international treaty modeled on the Americans with Disabilities Act.

On January 20, 2017, Heumann left her post at the State Department with the change of a new administration. The Special Advisor role was disestablished by United States Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in 2017. It was later reestablished under the Biden administration.

Ford Foundation