[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Canine reproduction

dance of inbreeding is independent dispersal trajectories from the natal pack. Many of the young wolves spend time alone or in small non-breeding packs composed of unrelated individuals. The union of two unrelated individuals in a new home range is the predominant pattern of breeding pair formation.

Among Ethiopian wolves, most females disperse from their natal pack at about two years of age, and some become "floaters" that may successfully immigrate into existing packs.  Breeding pairs are most often unrelated to each other, suggesting that female-biased dispersal reduces inbreeding.

Grey wolves and Arctic foxes also exhibit inbreeding avoidance.

Inbreeding is ordinarily avoided because it leads to a reduction in progeny fitness (inbreeding depression) due largely to the homozygous expression of deleterious recessive alleles.  Cross-fertilization between unrelated individuals ordinarily leads to the masking of deleterious recessive alleles in progeny.

Clinical issues

Female dogs are at risk for endometritis and pyometra in the postpartum period and after estrus or vaginitis. Signs and symptoms include fever, lethargy, loss of appetite, excessive thirst, restlessness, a foul smelling vaginal discharge which may or may not be bloody, infertility, or they may be asymptomatic.
 Uterine infections should be treated expeditiously if suspected. Contrary to common belief, uterine infections can strike any intact female, whether she has been bred or not, and whether it is her first season or not although it is more common as dogs become older.

Dog breeding

Semen collection
An artificial vagina is prepared, which is a conical thin latex sleeve ending in a sterile collection tube. The inside of the latex sleeve is lightly lubricated.  The male is allowed to sniff a female in estrus. Experienced studs cooperate readily in the process. New studs often require encouragement in the form of manual stimulation. Generally the male will mount the female, and the collector quickly directs the male's penis into the latex sleeve. The male ejaculates and the semen is collected in the tube. The semen is then drawn up into a long thin pipette.

Cross breeding
Designer breed dogs are Mixed-breed dogs that are intentionally bred from parents of two established breeds. Studies have shown that cross-bred dogs have a number of desirable reproductive traits.  Scott and Fuller found that cross-bred dogs were superior mothers compared to purebred mothers, producing more milk and giving better care.  These advantages led to a decreased mortality in the offspring of cross-bred dogs; however, the qualities of cross bred dogs are not predictable.  For example, Labrador x Poodle ("Labradoodle") can inherit the coat of either a Labrador, a poodle, or a remix.

Spaying and neutering

Spaying (females) and neutering (males) refers to the sterilization of animals—usually by castration (removal of the male's testicles) or ovariohysterectomy (removal of the female's ovaries and uterus)—to eliminate the ability to procreate, and reduce sex drive. Castration has also been known to reduce aggression in male dogs (in some cases), but spaying has been shown to occasionally increase aggression in female dogs.

Animal control agencies in the United States and the ASPCA advise that dogs not intended for further breeding should be spayed or neutered so that they do not have undesired puppies.  Spaying and castrating can decrease the risk of hormone-driven diseases such as mammary cancer, as well as undesired hormone-driven behaviors.  However, certain medical problems are more likely after neutering, such as urinary incontinence in females and prostate cancer in males.

Dogs shown in the conformation ring are not allowed to be either neutered or spayed. It disqualifies them from being shown as they must be intact and unaltered.

Female cats and dogs are seven times more likely to develop mammary tumors if they are not spayed before their first heat cycle.

Studies have shown that spaying or neutering may be associated with increasing some serious health and behavioural consequences while reducing others. The American Veterinary Association (AVMA) position provides no single recommendation to spay or neuter nor for one single age for spay or neuter that is more or less optimal than another. Rather, the AVMA position is that spay or neuter be determined on a case-by-case basis to assess risks for orthopedic disease, neoplasia, reproductive disease, longevity, and population control for each individual.

Altered females: