[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Income tax in Canada

a taxpayer's principal residence;
 provincial child tax credits or benefits and Québec family allowances;
 Working income tax benefit;
 the Goods and Services Tax or Harmonized Sales Tax credit (GST/HST credit), Quebec Sales Tax credit or Saskatchewan Sales Tax Credit;
 the Canada Child Tax Benefit.

Note that, the method by which these forms of income are not taxed can vary significantly, which may have tax and other implications; some forms of income are not declared, while others are declared and then immediately deducted in full. Some of the tax exemptions are based on statutory enactments, others (like the non-taxability of lottery winnings) are based on the non-statutory common law concept of "income". In certain cases, the deduction may require off-setting income, while in other cases, the deduction may be used without corresponding income. Income which is declared and then deducted, for example, may create room for future Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP) deductions. But then the RRSP contribution room may be reduced with a pension adjustment if you are part of another plan, reducing the ability to use RRSP contributions as a deduction.

Deductions which are not directly linked to non-taxable income exist, which reduce overall taxable income. A key example is RRSP contributions, which is a form of tax-deferred savings account (income tax is paid only at withdrawal, and no interim tax is payable on account earnings).

Corporate income taxes

Corporate taxes include taxes on corporate income in Canada and other taxes and levies paid by corporations to the various levels of government in Canada. These include capital and insurance premium taxes; payroll levies (e.g., employment insurance, Canada Pension Plan, Quebec Pension Plan and Workers' Compensation); property taxes; and indirect taxes, such as goods and services tax (GST), and sales and excise taxes, levied on business inputs.

Corporations are subject to tax in Canada on their worldwide income if they are resident in Canada for Canadian tax purposes. Corporations not resident in Canada are subject to Canadian tax on certain types of Canadian source income (Section 115 of the Canadian Income Tax Act'').

Effective January 1, 2012, the net federal corporate income tax rate in Canada was 15%, or 11% for corporations able to claim the small business deduction; in addition, corporations are subject to provincial income tax that may range from zero to 16%, depending on the province and the size of the business.

Corporation types
The taxes payable by a Canadian resident corporation depend on the type of corporation that it is:

A Canadian-controlled private corporation, which is defined as a corporation that is:
resident in Canada and either incorporated in Canada or resident in Canada from June 18, 1971, to the end of the taxation year;
not controlled directly or indirectly by one or more non-resident persons;
not controlled directly or indirectly by one or more public corporations (other than a prescribed venture capital corporation, as defined in Regulation 6700);
not controlled by a Canadian resident corporation that lists its shares on a prescribed stock exchange outside of Canada;
not controlled directly or indirectly by any combination of persons described in the three preceding conditions; if all of its shares that are owned by a non-resident person, by a public corporation (other than a prescribed venture capital corporation), or by a corporation with a class of shares listed on a prescribed stock exchange, were owned by one person, that person would not own sufficient shares to control the corporation; and
no class of its shares of capital stock is listed on a prescribed stock exchange.
A private corporation, which is defined as a corporation that is:
resident in Canada;
not a public corporation;
not controlled by one or more public corporations (other than a prescribed venture capital corporation, as defined in Regulation 6700);
not controlled by one or more prescribed federal Crown corporations (as defined in Regulation 7100); and
not controlled by any combination of corporations described in the two preceding conditions.
A public corporation, defined as a corporation that is resident in Canada and meets either of the following requirements at the end of the taxation year:
it has a class of shares listed on a prescribed Canadian stock exchange; or
it has elected, or the Minister of National Revenue has designated it, to be a public corporation and the corporation has complied with prescribed conditions under Regulation 4800(1) on the number of its shareholders, the dispersing of the ownership of its shares, the public trading of its shares, and the size of the corporation.