[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of retronyms

ke.  Coined after the advent of the regenerative brake in electric or hybrid automobiles.
 Frizzen  This component was called the "hammer" while flintlock firearms were in use.  On percussion cap firearms which replaced flintlock the striking component was called the hammer and the term frizzen was applied to the hammer of flintlocks.
 Full service  A radio format that consists of a wide range of programming. Coined after the introduction of contemporary hit radio in the 1950s.
 Full-size van (US)  Coined after the introduction of minivans by the Big Three automakers, although box trucks (bigger vehicles that were considered vans) existed prior to the Big Three's use of full-size van.
 Game Boy Classic  Used to distinguish the original from the Game Boy Pocket, the Game Boy Color, and the Game Boy Advance.
 Game Boy Mono  see Game Boy Classic. Refers to the monochrome graphics these models produced.
 Gen I (Chevrolet Small Block)"  Used to distinguish versions of the Chevrolet V6 and V8 engine from the 1997-present LS engines.
 GM "old-look" transit bus : The GM old look did not originally have a name, but in 1959, a new design was released and was called the new look. After this many people started calling the older design the Old Look.
 Ground warfare : The "Ground war" term/phrase developed some time after the widespread adoption of large scale use of aircraft as a viable weapon of war.
 Hand-barrow: Originally, "barrows" suspended the load on poles carried by two people, one in front and one behind.  "Wheelbarrows" are first cited by the Oxford English Dictionary to the 14th century, and in the 15th century the term hand-barrow arose to refer to the older sort of barrow, but in the British Isles the more common version was sedan chair (if a person was being carried).
 Hand grenade : All grenades were hand-thrown until the invention of the rifle grenade, and, later, the grenade launcher.
 Handwritten : Crops up in the late 19th century to contrast with "typewritten". 
 Hard cider : In Europe and Asia, "cider" refers to fermented (alcoholic) apple juice. In the U.S., "cider" or "apple cider" often refers to unfiltered non-alcoholic apple juice. "Hard cider" specifies the alcoholic version.
 Hardcover book : Prior to the invention of paperbacks, all books were hardcover and simply referred to as "books".
 Hard disk : All disks were hard (i.e. constructed of rigid instead of flexible magnetic material) until the advent of the floppy disk.
 High-floor:All buses and trams were high-floor until the advent of low-floor trams and low-floor and low-entry buses.
 Horse cavalry : Used to distinguish the now mostly obsolete original use of horses in a military mounted combat role, with the advent of tanks and other motorized vehicles (mechanized cavalry or armored cavalry) following World War I, and the use of helicopters (air cavalry) during the Vietnam War era.
 Horsecar (Horse Tram in English speaking countries outside North America) : Used to describe the horse-pulled predecessor of the modern streetcar / tram. Originally called 'street cars' or just 'cars'. After street railway companies started electrifying their systems around 1900, the term became 'electric street cars' or 'electric trams', to differentiate from the previous horse-drawn vehicles. As time went on the word 'electric' was dropped, and as automobiles began being referred to as cars, the term 'streetcar'(US) or 'tram'(UK) remained to describe a public transit vehicle that ran on rails at street level
 Hot chocolate : In the days before the invention of sweet solid chocolate for eating, the word "chocolate" was usually used to refer to the drink. For a while after the chocolate bar was invented it was referred to as "bar chocolate", but due to its rise in popularity in the latter half of the 19th century it eventually laid claim to the basic word.
 Human computer : Until mechanical computers, and later electronic computers became commercially available, the term "computer", in use from the mid-17th century, meant "one who computes": a person performing mathematical calculations. Teams of people were frequently used to undertake long and often tedious calculations; the work was sometimes divided so that this could be done in parallel.