[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of 2006 human rights incidents in Egypt

The following is a list of notable events concerning human rights in Egypt in 2006.  Although there is no single accepted definition of what constitutes a "human rights incident" in common use, those listed here are commonly called either human rights violations or advances in the recognition of human rights, or meet some of the commonly used criteria.

January 2006 

January 2:  Hundreds of the Sudanese refugees that were arrested on December 30, 2005, and detained in Cairo-area detention camps were released. Hundreds more (approximately 654) remained in detention and were scheduled to be deported to Sudan on January 6, 2006.

January 5:  The deportation of 654 Sudanese refugees slated for January 6 was postponed for one week so the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees could determine which Sudanese are legal refugees.

January 11:  164 of the 654 Sudanese refugees slated for deportation were not deported, but were instead released.

January 17:  The US declared that it intended to postpone free trade talks with Egypt due to the December 24, 2005 court sentencing of politician Ayman Nour to five years of prison for alleged election law violations.

January 17:  Egyptian officials declared that they no longer planned on deporting any of the Sudanese refugees still in detention.
January 18:  233 more of the Sudanese refugees slated for deportation were not deported, but were instead released.  At this point, 183 of the original 654 Sudanese refugees slated for deportation remain detained.
January 18:  A mob of Muslim Egyptians attacked a mob of Coptic Christian Egyptians in the village of El Udaysaat, near Luxor.  One Egyptian was killed and 12 were injured in the attack.  The day before the attack, it had been discovered that the Coptic Egyptians were secretly using a guest house as a church.

January 26:  The Philippine government reported that Filipina Veronica Bangit had given accounts of being abused during her employment in Cairo as a domestic servant.
January 28:  Muslim Brotherhood members of parliament (MPs) walked out of Egypt's parliament to protest the expulsion of a fellow MP who had criticized the government for letting a French warship through the Suez Canal.
January 28:  A family court refused Hind El Hinnawy's request that the actor Ahmed El Fishawy be recognized as the father of El Hinnawy's daughter.  The court ruled that while the DNA test showed El Fishawy was the father, El Hinnawy could not produce proof that he had agreed to a marriage, secret or otherwise.

January 30:  MB MPs called for a boycott against Denmark due to the Jyllands-Posten cartoons of Mohammad that appeared in that country.

February 2006 

February 3:	Egyptian authorities detained U.K. politician George Galloway overnight in an airport prison cell, allegedly for reasons of national security.

February 12:  	Egypt's upper house of parliament approved a two-year postponement of municipal elections, putting them off from April 2006 to April 2008.  The MB MPs protested this move, which extended the terms of 4,500 officeholders.

February 13:  	Hundreds of family members of the victims of the Al-Salaam ferry disaster stormed the shipping company offices in Safaga. Riot police resorted to throwing tear gas in an attempt to restore order.

February 13: 	Thousands of students demonstrated at Al-Azhar University against the Jyllands-Posten cartoons.

February 18:  	Three MB members were ordered to stand trial on charges of possessing weapons and provoking violence.
February 18:  	Ayman Nour's lawyers filed an appeal and requested suspension of his sentence until this appeal had been ruled on.
February 21:  	400 Cairo University students, mostly from the Kefaya or El-Ghad Party groups, shouted anti-Mubarak slogans and accused his regime of corruption and rigging last year's elections. The protest coincided with Secretary Rice's visit to Cairo.

February 28:  	Authorities released three British Islamic fundamentalists after they spent nearly three years in prison for membership of a banned religious party.

March 2006 

March 3:  	Police arrested seven MB student activists for holding a meeting, at which they were planning an anti-cartoon protest.
March 3:  	Police arrested Rashad al-Bayoumi, a Cairo University professor, for affiliation with the MB.
 
March 3:  	Egypt-based political website www.masreyat.org was shut down by state-owned internet company TE Data.
March 5:  	Police arrested 12 MB members who were holding a meeting in Cairo's Zahraa el-Maadi district.
 
March 6:  	Police arrested 5 MB members in Giza and Ismaliya on charges of plotting to "revive the group's activities".
 
March 8:  	Police shut down the MB newspaper Afaq Arabiya (Arab Horizons) and arrested four MB members.