[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Australian Broadcasting Corporation

nts a day goes", coined in the late 1980s during funding negotiations, is often used in reference to the services provided by the ABC. It was estimated that the cost of the ABC per head of population per day was 7.1 cents a day, based on the corporation's 2007–08 "base funding" of .

Services

Radio

The ABC operates 54 local radio stations, in addition to four national networks and international service Radio Australia. In addition, DiG Radio (rebranded as Double J in 2014) launched on digital platforms in 2002, and later spinning off ABC Country and ABC Jazz.

ABC Local Radio is the corporation's flagship radio station in each broadcast area. There are 54 individual stations, each with a similar format consisting of locally presented light entertainment, news, talk back, music, sport and interviews, in addition to some national programming such as AM, PM, The World Today, sporting events and Nightlife.

 the ABC operates 15 radio networks, variously available on AM and FM as well as on digital platforms and the internet.
 Radio National – A generalist station, also known as RN, broadcasting more than 60 special interest programmes per week covering a range of topics including music, comedy, book readings, radio dramas, poetry, science, health, the arts, religion, social history and current affairs.
 ABC NewsRadio – A news based service, also known as ABC News on Radio, broadcasting federal parliamentary sittings and news on a 24/7 format with updates on the quarter-hour. Broadcast's news content produced by the ABC itself, as well as programmes relayed from ABC Radio Australia, the BBC World Service, NPR, Deutsche Welle, Radio Netherlands and CNN Radio.
 ABC Classic – A classical music based station, formerly known as ABC Classic FM. It also plays some jazz and world music. ABC Classic was the ABC's first FM radio service. It was originally known simply as "ABC FM", and for a short time "ABC Fine Music".
 Triple J – A youth-oriented radio network, with a strong focus on alternative and independent music (especially Australian artists); it is targeted at people aged 18–35.

The ABC also operates several stations only available online and on digital platforms:
 ABC Classic 2 – a sister station to ABC Classic, focussing on performances by Australian artists. Only available on streaming platforms.
 Double J – a Triple J sister station, focussed on an older audience to Triple J.
 Triple J Unearthed – a Triple J sister station, playing unsigned and independent Australian talent.
 Triple j Hottest - a Triple J sister station, playing tracks from the past 30 years of Triple J Hottest 100 countdowns.
 ABC Jazz – A station exclusively dedicated to Jazz from Australia and the world.
 ABC Country – An exclusively country music station, mainly focussing on Australian country music.
 ABC Grandstand – Since November 2020 merged to ABC Sport.
 ABC Extra – A temporary special events station.
 ABC Kids – Children's based programming, and a sister station to the ABC Kids television channel.

There is also ABC Radio Australia, the international radio station of the ABC (see below).

ABC Listen app

The ABC Radio app was launched in 2012. This was replaced by the ABC Listen app in September 2017, which included 45 ABC radio stations and audio networks.

Television