[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day

tates
The United States Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 314, designated the month of October 1988 as "Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Month and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month which Ronald Reagan then formalized on October 25, 1988.

In 2001, Robyn Bear, Lisa Brown, and Tammy Novak initiated a campaign and petitioned the federal government and state governors of the United States to make October 15 an official holiday titled Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day. Concurrent Resolution 222, which supported the goals and ideals of National Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day, was passed in the U.S. House of Representatives on September 28, 2006.

United Kingdom
According to the registered charity the Stillbirth and Neonatal Death Society (Sands), the first Baby Loss Awareness Day was held in the United Kingdom on October 15, 2002 after a group of parents were inspired by the Pregnancy & Infant Loss Remembrance Day in the United States. Baby Loss Awareness Week has been in observance in the UK from October 9–15, since 2003, when the event was expanded into a week, the same year the first official Wave of Light was observed in the UK.

In 2016, Labor MP Vicky Foxcroft offered personal testimony in support of the week of remembrance.

Canada

In 2005, New Brunswick was the first Canadian province to observe Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day, an action granted by the New Brunswick Department of Health and Wellness on October 12, 2005. New Brunswick Minister of Health and Wellness Elvy Robichaud called on provincial residents to provide "support, education, and awareness for grieving parents who have lost children during pregnancy or shortly after birth" due to miscarriage and infant death being "a source of grief, often silent, for mothers, fathers, siblings, and grandparents."

In 2008, Manitoba recognized the holiday through Bill 226. In 2015, Ontario enacted Bill 141 which designated October 15 as Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Day, with support for further research and program development. In 2017, Nova Scotia began to observe the holiday on October 15, as Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Day, via Bill 38.

As of 2018, the holiday was nationally recognized in Canada.

Australia

In May 2008, Nicole Ballinger of New South Wales (NSW) contacted her Members of Parliament (MPs) to request help in creating an official Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day. Ballinger worked with MPs Joanna Gash and Shelley Hancock from 2008 to 2011 to get an official remembrance day declared. On 15 October 2011, Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day was officially declared in NSW.

John and Kate De'Laney campaigned for recognition of Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day in Western Australia (WA). After Kate De'Laney wrote a letter to Premier Colin Barnett to bring Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day to greater attention, the WA State Government passed a bipartisan agreement to officially recognize the holiday on October 15, 2014.

The De'Laney's worked with Senator Kristina Keneally to make October 15th nationally recognised by the Australian Parliament. Senators Keneally, Bilyk, McCarthy, and Polley, moved a motion in the upper house Australian Government to make Pregnancy and Infant Loss Remembrance Day an official Australian holiday and on February 17, 2021, the motion, put to the members of the lower house, passed unopposed.

References

External links 

 Pregnancy and Infant Loss (PAIL) Network a Canadian resource network affiliated with Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre 
 Sands (Stillbirth and Neonatal Death Society) a UK charity for support, bereavement, and research on prevention of baby loss

Observances in Canada
Observances in the United States
Observances in the United Kingdom
Observances in Australia
Human pregnancy
Family member holidays
Remembrance days
October observances
October events
Miscarriage
Stillbirth
Health awareness days