[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 73]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

n a more
ordinary manner, she would have certainly broken her parents' hearts and
embittered their last years, to say nothing of the husband and perhaps
the children, who would have suffered for want of a mother's care.

"But why should the husband suffer?" asked Algitha. "_Caterina's_
husband cordially detested her."

"It is customary to regard the occasion as one proper for suffering,"
said Mrs. Temperley, "and every well-regulated husband would suffer
accordingly."

"Clearly," assented Lady Engleton. "When the world congratulates us we
rejoice, when it condoles with us we weep."

"That at least, would not affect the children," said Algitha. "I don't
see why of necessity _they_ should suffer."

"Their share of the woe would be least of all, I think," Mrs. Temperley
observed. "What ogre is going to ill-treat them? And since few of us
know how to bring up so much as an earth-worm reasonably, I can't see
that it matters so very much which particular woman looks after the
children. Any average fool would do."

Mrs. Walker was stiffening in every limb.

"The children would have the usual chances of their class; neither more
nor less, as it seems to me, for lack of a maternal burnt-offering."

Mrs. Walker rose, gathered her daughters about her, and came forward to
say good-bye. She was sure her husband would be annoyed if she did not
return. She retired with nervous precipitation.

"Really you will depopulate this village, Mrs. Temperley," cried Lady
Engleton with a laugh; "it is quite dangerous to bring up a family
within your reach. There will be a general exodus. I must be going
myself, or I shan't have an orthodox sentiment left."




CHAPTER XX.


Henriette had secured Mrs. Fullerton for an ally, from the beginning.
When Hadria's parents visited the Red House, Miss Temperley was asked to
meet them, by special request. Henriette employed tact on a grand scale,
and achieved results in proportion. She was sorry that dear Hadria did
not more quickly recover her strength. Her health was not what it ought
to be. Mrs. Fullerton sighed. She was ready to play into Miss
Temperley's hands on every occasion.

The latter had less success in her dealings with Miss Du Prel. She tried
to discover Hadria's more intimate feelings by talking her over with
Valeria, ignoring the snubs that were copiously administered by that
indignant lady. Valeria spoke with sublime scorn of this attempt.

"To try and pump information out of a friend! Why not listen at the
key-hole, and be done with it!"

Henriette's neat hair would have stood on end, had she heard Miss Du
Prel fit adjectives to her conduct.

"I have learnt not to expect a nice sense of honour from superior
persons with unimpeachable sentiments," said Hadria.

"You are certainly a good hater!" cried Valeria, with a laugh.

"Oh, I don't hate Henriette; I only hate unimpeachable sentiments."

The sentiments that Henriette represented had become, to Hadria, as the
walls of a prison from which she could see no means of escape.

She had found that life took no heed either of her ambitions or of her
revolts. "And so I growl," she said. She might hate and chafe in secret
to her heart's content; external conformity was the one thing needful.

"Hadria will be so different when she has children," everyone had said.
And so she was; but the difference was alarmingly in the wrong
direction. Throughout history, she reflected, children had been the
unfailing means of bringing women into line with tradition. Who could
stand against them? They had been able to force the most rebellious to
their knees. An appeal to the maternal instinct had quenched the
hardiest spirit of revolt. No wonder the instinct had been so trumpeted
and exalted! Women might harbour dreams and plan insurrections; but
their children--little ambassadors of the established and expected--were
argument enough to convince the most hardened sceptics. Their
helplessness was more powerful to suppress revolt than regiments of
armed soldiers.

Such were the thoughts that wandered through Hadria's mind as she bent
her steps towards the cottage near Craddock Church, where, according to
the gravedigger's account, the baby of the unhappy schoolmistress was
being looked after by Mrs. Gullick.

It would have puzzled the keenest observer to detect the unorthodox
nature of Mrs. Temperley's reflections, as she leant over the child, and
made enquiries as to its health and temperament.

Mrs. Gullick seemed more disposed to indulge in remarks on its mother's
conduct than to give the desired information; but she finally admitted
that Ellen Jervis had an aunt at Southampton who was sending a little
money for the support of the child. Ellen Jervis had stayed with the
aunt during the summer holidays. Mrs. Gullick did not know what was to
be done. She had a large family of her own, and the cottage was small.

Mrs. Temperley asked for the addre