[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mihama Nuclear Power Plant

orst-case scenario should be taken into consideration."

According to the experts there were many other faults located under one reactor on the west side of the Urasoku fault that could move also simultaneously. If this were confirmed, the location of the Tsuruga nuclear plant would be disqualified.

On 6 March 2012 NISA asked Japan Atomic Power Co. to reassess the worst-case scenario for earthquakes at the Tsuruga Nuclear Power Plant. They were to find out what damage this could do to the buildings on the site, because the Urazoko fault, running around 250 meters from the reactor buildings, could have a serious impact on the earthquake resistance of the power plant. NISA was also planning to send similar instructions to two other nuclear power plant operators in the Fukui area: Kansai Electric Power Company, and Japan Atomic Energy Agency. The Mihama Nuclear Power Plant and the Monju fast-breeder reactor could also be affected by a possible earthquake caused by the Urazoko fault.

Unit 1 and 2 shutdown 
Regulation brought about following the March 2011 nuclear disaster forbids the operation of nuclear reactors for more than 40 years. However, plant operators could secure a 20-year operation extension from the Nuclear Regulation Authority if reactors are refitted. For example, these new regulations require utilities to install power cables made from fire-retardant materials.

Kansai Electric determined that it was not economical to invest in the costly refits of the two older reactor units (Mihama 1 and 2) given their comparatively small output, and decommissioned them in March 2015.

Unit 3 life extension to 60 years 
Japan's nuclear regulator approved an application to extend the life of Unit 3 through 2036. New regulations would have required the shutdown of Unit 3 by the end of 2016. This is the second such approval granted since the Fukushima disaster.

Restart will happen after safety upgrades are completed by March 2020 and will cost about 165 billion yen ($1.51 billion). 
The upgrades involve fire proofing cabling and other measures.

On 23 June 2021, unit 3 was powered. The restart of unit 3 marks the country's first nuclear unit to operate beyond the initial 40-year service period and following a 10-year outage, completing the mandated upgrade works and the final inspections. But unit 3 is expected to be halted for completion of counterterrorism measures before a 25 October deadline. Work is in progress, but Kansai Electric estimates it would not meet the deadline. Furthermore, nine people from Fukui, Kyoto and Shiga prefectures, filed a lawsuit with the Osaka District Court, seeking to stop unit 3.

See also 

 List of nuclear power plants in Japan

References

External links

Mihama Nuclear Power Plant 
Japanese nuclear operator to shut 11 plants
Worst Japanese Nuclear Accident Claims Fifth Life

Civilian nuclear power accidents
Buildings and structures in Fukui Prefecture
Nuclear power stations in Japan
Energy infrastructure completed in 1970
1970 establishments in Japan
Nuclear power stations using pressurized water reactors
Nuclear power stations with closed reactors
Mihama, Fukui