[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Lighthorsemen (film)

The Lighthorsemen is a 1987 Australian war film about the men of a World War I light horse unit involved in Sinai and Palestine campaign's 1917 Battle of Beersheeba.  The film is based on a true story and most of the characters in the film were based on real people. (Elyne Mitchell wrote the novelization based on the screenplay.)

It follows in the wake of other Australian New Wave war films such as Breaker Morant (1980), Gallipoli (1981), and the 5-part TV series Anzacs (1985).  Recurring themes of these films include the Australian identity, such as mateship and larrikinism, the loss of innocence in war, and also the continued coming of age of the Australian nation and its soldiers (the Anzac spirit).

The film was directed by Simon Wincer, and several pieces of footage from the climactic scenes were re-used in the episode "Palestine, October 1917" of the television series The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles.  This episode, which aired in 1993, likewise focuses on the Battle of Beersheeba, and was also directed by Wincer.

Plot
In 1917, four World War I Australian cavalrymen – Frank, Scotty, Chiller, and Tas – serve in Palestine as part of the 4th Light Horse Brigade, a unit of the British and Commonwealth forces. When Frank dies, he is replaced by Dave. Dave finds himself unable to fire his weapon in combat and is transferred to the Medical Corps, where he will not need to carry a weapon, but will still be exposed to the fighting.

The British plan the capture of Beersheba. During an attack by Turkish cavalry, Major Richard Meinertzhagen deliberately leaves behind documents that indicate the attack on Beersheba will only be a diversion. The Australians leave for Beersheba with limited water and supplies. They bombard the town and the 4,000 Turkish-German defenders prepare for an assault. However, the German military advisor, Reichert, believes it is a diversionary attack and advises the Turkish commander that he does not need reinforcements. With time running out and water in short supply, British commanders suspect any attack upon Beersheba will probably fail. The Australian commanders ask the British to send in the Australian Light Horse. The British consent to what they think is a suicide mission.

On 31 October, the 4th and 12th Light Horse Regiments are ordered to attack the Turks. Dave and the rest of the medical detachment prepare for casualties and are ordered in behind the Light Horse. The Turks report the Australian mounted soldiers lining up to charge, but the officer in charge orders the Turks not to open fire until they dismount because he recognizes they are light horse, riding for mobility but not trained or equipped for true cavalry combat.

The Australians advance on the Turkish positions and gradually speed up to a charge. The Turks realize too late that the soldiers are not dismounting and open fire. Artillery fire is sporadic and of limited effect, and the attack is so fast the Turkish infantry forget to adjust the sights on their rifles, which causes them to fire over the Australians' heads.

During the charge, Tas is killed by an artillery shell. The Australians advance faster than the Turkish artillery can correct its aim for the reduced range and reach the Turkish trenches. The Australians capture the first line of Turkish defenses. Scotty and a few others take control of the guns. Chiller is wounded in the trench fight. Dave is struck by a grenade and is seriously wounded while he protects Chiller. Scotty continues to fight on into the town.

When most of the remaining Turkish soldiers surrender, Reichert tries to destroy the wells but is captured by Scotty. The attack is judged a success, with the Australians sustaining only 31 dead and 36 wounded.

The successful attack on Beersheba allows for the subsequent capture of Jerusalem and the rest of Palestine. In deference to Jerusalem's status as the Holy City, British commander General Allenby walks into the city as a liberator, rather than making a conqueror's triumphal entry.

Cast

 Peter Phelps as Dave Mitchell
 Shane Briant as Captain Reichert
 Ralph Cotterill as General Friedrich Kress von Kressenstein
 Bill Kerr as Lieutenant-General Sir Harry Chauvel
 Grant Piro as Charlie
 Tony Bonner as Lieutenant-Colonel Murray Bourchier
 Serge Lazareff as Major George Rankin
 Gary Sweet as Frank
 John Walton as Tas
 Tim McKenzie as Chiller
 Jon Blake as Trooper Scotty Bolton
 Patrick Frost as Sergeant Ted Seager
 Adrian Wright as Lawson
 Sigrid Thornton as Anne
 Anthony Andrews as Major Richard Meinertzhagen
 Anthony Hawkins as General Sir Edmund Allenby
 Gerard Kennedy as Colonel Ismet Bey
 Jon Sidney as Brigadier-General William Grant
 Graham Dow as Major-General Henry Hodgson
 James Wright as Brigadier-General Percy FitzGerald
 Steve Bastoni as Turkish Demolition Soldier