[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 14th Indiana Infantry Regiment

tietam (September 12–15, 1862). After Antietam, Kimball's Independent Brigade, which included the 14th Indiana, was given the nickname of the "Gibraltar Brigade" for maintaining its position along the Sunken Road and for its assault on Confederate forces, driving them from the battlefield.

Antietam

Colonel William Harrow's official report of September 19, 1862, described the 14th Indiana's actions on the morning of September 17. During the early hours of battle, the regiment passed through an orchard and into an open, plowed field. The 14th Indiana engaged for about four hours under heavy fire within  of Confederate forces occupying the Sunken Road. Although they suffered heavy casualties, the 14th Indiana and the 8th Ohio Volunteer Infantry regiments held their positions. The Confederate force retired from battle in the early afternoon, but the Indiana regiment continued at arms until nightfall, under fire from Confederate batteries, before it was finally relieved. Of the 14th Indiana’s 320 men who went into battle, 31 were killed and an estimated 150 were wounded.

After the battle, the regiment marched to Harper's Ferry, then moved to Warrenton, Virginia, and Falmouth, Virginia. The regiment remained inactive at Falmouth until December 1862.

Fredericksburg
The 14th Indiana took part in the Second Battle of Fredericksburg (December 12–15, 1862). On December 12, the 14th Indiana was part of column of Union troops that attempted to storm the Confederates' fortified the breastworks under heavy artillery fire. Unable to take the Confederate position, the 14th Indiana was forced to withdraw. After the Union defeat at Fredericksburg, the 14th Indiana returned Falmouth, Virginia, where it spent the winter.

Colonel John Coons replaced Nathan Kimball, who was severely injured in the battle, as commander of the 14th Indiana. Kimball recovered from his wounds and was promoted to brigadier general. He resumed active duty in the Western Theater for the remainder of the war.

Chancellorsville
The 14th Indiana was involved in the Union defeat at the Battle of Chancellorsville (May 1–5, 1863). After being held in reserve during the first two days of the battle, the regiment moved to the front on the morning of May 3. It attacked Confederate troops about 8 a.m., driving them from their positions. The 14th Indiana held its ground during an engagement that lasted about three hours. Unable to advance, the 14th Indiana reoccupied positions that General Sykes's division had once held and fortified them by constructing rifle pits and placing skirmishers in front of the breastworks. Although the regiment was eventually driven back, its efforts delayed the Confederate advance, which allowed the Union's 11th and 12th Corps to restore its line.

On May 4, the 14th Indiana remained behind temporary fortifications, and on May 5, other than skirmishes with its pickets, the regiment did not engage with the Confederates. On the evening of May 5, the regiment received orders to leave its  position and return to the Rappahannock River, which the men had forded a few days earlier. Lieutenant Colonel Elijah H. C. Cavins of the 14th Indiana reported on May 10, 1863, that the regiment’s casualties were 7 killed and 50 wounded.

Gettysburg
The regiment took part in the Battle of Gettysburg (July 2–4, 1863), when Union General George Meade's Army of the Potomac defeated Confederate General Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, a small town intersected by numerous roads and surrounded by hills. The 14th Indiana arrived late in the day on July 1, too late to join in the battle, when the Confederate troops forced the Union's 1st Corps and 11th Corps to retreat to Cemetery Hill, about a half-mile south of town.

On the morning of July 2, the 14th Indiana was deployed into position for an afternoon charge, and was sent to the front as relief troops to General Howard's 11th Corps late in the day. The 14th Indiana was among those ordered to protect the exposed batteries at Cemetery Hill as part of the First Brigade, Hay's Division. Colonel John Coons, commander of the regiment at Gettysburg, reported that the 14th Indiana initially supported Woodruff's battery near the center of the battle line in the morning. By 4:30 in the afternoon it was under continuous artillery fire from the Confederates. Around 6 p.m. Colonel Samuel S. Carroll ordered Colonel Coons's men to shift its support to the Union batteries on the right of the cemetery. These batteries had already lost their support from the 11th Corps. In addition, the Confederates had crested Cemetery Hill, capturing one of the Union guns. With the 7th West Virginia and 4th Ohio Infantry, the 14th Indiana advanced with fixed bayonets, forming a line along a stone fence to defend Cemetery Hill. These Union forces kept the Confederates from capturing Rickett's battery and forced them to retreat down the hill.