[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hans Münch

's acquittal was based, among other things, on his strict refusal to participate in the selections.

Of the 40 Auschwitz staff tried in Kraków at the Auschwitz Trial, only Münch was acquitted. He was called the "Good Man of Auschwitz", who had saved prisoners from being murdered in the gas chambers.

Later life
He took over a rural doctor's practice in Roßhaupten in Ostallgäu, Bavaria. In 1964, Münch testified in the first Auschwitz Trial in Frankfurt on Main and in the following trials, he was called on for his expert opinion.

In West Germany, Münch took part in discussion meetings and commemoration ceremonies. He was appreciated for having saved many Auschwitz prisoners at the risk of his own life. In 1995, on the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, he made a journey back to the concentration camp. Münch was invited by Eva Mozes Kor, a survivor of Josef Mengele's experiments on twins. Münch and Kor signed public declarations regarding what had happened there and declaring that such a thing should never be allowed to happen again.

Münch has also commented on Holocaust denial. During an interview Münch, asked about the negationist claim that Auschwitz was a hoax, wearily responded:

During his final years, Münch lived in the Allgäu region, by Forggen Lake. He died aged 90 in 2001.

Controversies
Münch made several controversial statements which caused charges to be filed against him. In 1998, journalist Bruno Schirra published an interview with Münch, conducted a year earlier, in Der Spiegel. Schirra and Münch had watched the film Schindler's List, and the interview was conducted directly after the viewing.

A few days later, Dirk Münch, Münch's son, publicly expressed his lack of comprehension of this interview. He explained that his father had been suffering from poor concentration for two years. He criticised the fact that Schindler's List had been watched directly before the interview, saying that this would have been very exhausting due to the film's three-hour length and his father's advanced age. Dirk Münch stated that, after the film, his father had even confused the female house cat Minka with the male cat Peter. A German filmmaker who made a documentary about Münch also stated that he was not of sound mind. He was later diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease.

Criminal proceedings (1998)
The Bavarian Justice Ministry initiated proceedings of criminal prosecution as a reaction to the interview. The  (the Central Office of the State Justice Administrations for the Investigation of National Socialist Crimes) opened preliminary proceedings.  The authorities looked through Stasi-files from the secret police of East Germany (GDR) and demanded Der Spiegel hand over the tape recordings of the Münch interview in order to determine to what extent the public prosecutor should act. The assumptions of possible participation in National Socialist crimes were based on three indications:

 participation in the duty at the selection camp,
 participation in selections directly within the concentration camp
 participation in experiments with human material leading to the death of the test persons.

The criminal proceedings against Münch were dropped in January 2000 due to "progressed dementia". One year later, Münch died.

Documentary film participation (1999)
Münch appeared in the documentary film Die letzten Tage, which was released in 1999 in the US as The Last Days and in Germany in March 2000. As a contemporary witness, he met and talked with camp survivor Renée Firestone, whose sister was murdered in Auschwitz during experiments with humans. A film review pointed out that the American version of the film made no clear indication that Münch suffered from Alzheimer's disease at this time.  Only the credits of the film provided this information and then only in French.

Proceedings and conviction in France (2000–2001)

In 1998, Münch made derogatory statements about Roma and Sinti on the French radio programme France Inter, where he said that the Roma were "pathetic" and the gas chambers would have been the only solution for them. Münch was accused of "incitement of racial hatred". He did not take part in the court hearing. A medical expert opinion had certified him "psychologically disturbed". The acquittal was based on this expert opinion. The Agence France-Presse (AFP) reported on 7 May 2001 that the Paris appeal court had annulled the June 2000 acquittal.

In May 2001, Münch was convicted in Paris for "incitement of racial hatred" and "belittlement of crimes against humanity". The prosecutor demanded not the imprisonment of Münch but his release on license. Münch was found guilty, but due to his old age and his mental health, the Paris appeal court decided that the 89-year-old Münch should not serve out the sentence. As in the previous proceedings, Münch did not attend the court hearings.