[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Digital Addressable Lighting Interface

e speed is kept low so no termination resistors are required, and data is transmitted using relatively high voltages ( for low and  for high) enabling reliable communications in the presence of significant electrical noise.  (This also allows plenty of headroom for a bridge rectifier in each slave.)

Each bit is sent using Manchester encoding (a "1" bit is low for the first half of the bit time, and high for the second, while "0" is the reverse), so that power is present for half of each bit.  When the bus is idle, the voltage level is continuously high (which is not the same as a data bit).  Frames begin with a "1" start bit, then 8 to 32 data bits in msbit-first order (standard RS-232 is lsbit-first), followed by a minimum of 2.45 ms of idle.

Device addressing
A DALI device, such as an LED driver, can be controlled individually via its short address. Additionally, each DALI device may be members of one to 16 groups, or be a member of up to 16 scenes.  All devices of a group respond to the commands addressed to the group. For example, a room with 4 ballasts can be changed from off to on in three common ways:

Single device
Using the Short Address, e.g. sending the following DALI messages:

 DALI Short Address 1 go to 100%
 DALI Short Address 2 go to 100%
 DALI Short Address 3 go to 100%
 DALI Short Address 4 go to 100%

This method has the advantage of not requiring programming of group and scene information for each ballast. The fade time of the transition can be chosen on the fly.
If a large number of devices need to change at once, note that only 40 commands per second are possible - therefore, 64 individual addresses would require 1.5 seconds. For example, turning all lighting fixtures off may result in a visible delay between the first and last ballasts switching off. This issue is normally not a problem in rooms with a smaller number of ballasts.  Groups and Scenes solve that.

Device groups
Using the DALI Group previously assigned to ballasts in the room, if Short Address 1, 2, 3 and 4 are members of Group 1, e.g.: 
 DALI Group address 1 go to 100%

This method has the advantage of being immune to synchronization effects as described above.
This method has the disadvantage of requiring each ballast to be programmed once, by a DALI master, with the required group numbers and scene information. The fade time can still be configured on the fly, if required.

Broadcast
Using the DALI Broadcast command, all control gear will change to that level, e.g.:
 DALI Broadcast go to 50%

Scenes
Devices store 16 programmable output levels as "scenes".  Individual, Group or ALL devices can respond to a global Scene recall command to change to its previously configured level, e.g. dim lights over the audience and bright lights over the stage.  (A programmed brightness level of 255 causes a device to not respond to a given scene - hence be excluded from scene recall commands.)

System Fail brightness
A "system failure" level can be triggered by a loss of power (sustained low level) on the DALI bus, to provide a safe fallback if control is lost, a level of 255 excludes the device from this feature.

Brightness control
DALI lighting levels are specified by an 8-bit value, with 0 representing off, 1 means 0.1% of full brightness, 254 means full brightness, and other values being logarithmically interpolated, giving a 2.77% increase per step.  I.e., a (non-zero) control byte  denotes a power level of .

(A value of 255 is reserved for freezing the current lighting level without changing it.)

This is designed to match human eye sensitivity so that perceived brightness steps are uniform, and to ensure corresponding brightness levels in units from different manufacturers.

Commands for control gear
Forward frames sent to control gear are 16 bits long, comprising an address byte followed by an opcode byte.  The address byte specifies a target device or a special command addressed to all devices.

Except for special commands, when addressing a device, the 7 most significant bits is the device address.  The least significant bit of the address byte specifies the interpretation of the opcode byte, with "0" meaning that the opcode is a light level ( ARC ) , and "1" meaning that the opcode is a command.

Multi packet commands are used for more complex tasks - like setting RGB colors.  These commands use three "data transfer registers"  (DTR, DTR1, DTR2 ) which can be read and written or used as a parameter by subsequent commands.  For example, copy the current ARC level to DTR, save DTR as a scene.  Evidently, the DTR value can be different in different devices.

Address byte (AB) format:
 0AAA AAAS: Target device 0 ≤ A < 64.
 100A AAAS: Target group 0 ≤ A < 16.  Each control gear may be a member of any or all groups.
 1111 110S: Broadcast unaddressed
 1111 111S: Broadcast
 1010 0000 to 1100 1011: Special commands
 1100 1100 to 1111 1011: Reserved

Common control gear commands: