[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andrei Babitsky

ssian Special Services at Vnukovo airport whilst attempting to get to North Ossetia to report on the school hostage crisis.

On 23 June 2005, Babitsky managed to interview Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev. The interview was first broadcast on ABC on 28 July and incurred the wrath of Russian officials.

Babitsky was living in Prague, Czech Republic where RFE/RL headquarters were located when in 2014 he fell out with Radio Liberty over his advocating the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea. He voiced the opinion that it was Russia's "undeniable right to stand up for its (Crimea's) inhabitants" and in September of the same year he was dismissed from the radio. Speaking on the war in eastern Ukraine, Babitsky said that:
At that time I felt for the Chechens, because I thought that if these people want to live by their own traditions and move away from Russia then they should be able to. ... It’s the same here. I think Russia is playing a significant role here, but the reasons are not to be found in Russia, they are internal. This is a civil war, where the interests of two parts of Ukraine that consider themselves linked to two cultural traditions are clashing with each other.

While Andrei Babitsky claimed his dismissal was political for his opinions towards Crimea and Ukraine, RFE/RL stated it was due to staff reorganisation; RFERL spokesman, Martins Zvaners, commented that RFE/RL cannot discuss the Babitsky's case, but claimed it was "totally false" that the dismissal was connected with Babitsky's personal views, and that RFE/RL had no bias in coverage of Ukraine.

Death

Babitsky died on 1 April 2022 in Donetsk, Ukraine at the age of 57.

References

External links 
 Brief Legal Evaluation of Circumstances Attending to Andrei Babitsky’s Detention, Glastnost Defense Foundation
 Babitsky's "crime" and punishment CPJ Press Freedom Online
 Babitsky's War, television documentary
 

1964 births
2022 deaths
Writers from Moscow
People of the Chechen wars
Russian war correspondents
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty people
Defenders of the White House (1991)
Russian people of Tajik descent
People from the Donetsk People's Republic