[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in Nigeria

inancial embezzlement by the powerful is very problematic."

On 24 July 2020, the United Nations official urged the Nigerian authorities to immediately release a prominent human rights defender Mubarak Bala, who has been detained for more than two months without charges, on accusations of blasphemy.

Late September 2020, the United Nations human rights experts urged Nigerian authorities to release singer Yahaya Sharif-Aminu, who was convicted and sentenced to death over an allegedly blasphemous song. U.N. Human Rights Special Procedures group claimed that a group of people burned down the singer's home on March 4.

On 4 June 2021, the Federal Government of Nigeria announced a ban on Twitter after President Muhammadu Buhari tweet was removed by Twitter for being abusive against a specific tribe of the country and capable of inciting violence which is against the rules of engagement on the platform. This move can be seen as another infringement on the human rights and freedom of expression of Nigerians by a civilian government who swore to protect the lives of Nigerians and uphold the constitution in totality.

Government violations
Nigerian security forces are frequently alleged to carry out arbitrary arrests, torture, forced disappearances, assassinations and extrajudicial summary executions. These abuses typically occur within the context of the Nigerian government's security operations or are directed against political and religious organizations and individuals. Several instances of mass killings of political opponents and agitators by security forces have been reported.

Army

On 12–14 December 2015, the Nigerian Army carried out a massacre of 347 members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) in Zaria, Kaduna State and buried the bodies in mass graves. In March 2020, it was revealed that some Nigeria army soldiers took advantage of food shortages at refugee camps in Borno state and raped women at female-designated "satellite camps" in exchange for granting them food. These refugee camp food shortages also resulted in the death of "thousands" of people since 2015. On 4 April 2020, three Army soldiers were arrested in Lagos state for issuing threats to rape women. On 21 May 2020, two Lagos state Army deserters, Kehinde Elijah and Ezeh Joseph, were arrested for their involvement in the murder of a police sergeant on 10 May 2020. The shooters, who were afterwards taken into military custody, were also assisted by a Nigerian police officer and were wanted for "violent crimes."

Police force
In Nigeria, the Nigeria Police Force has been typically viewed as inefficient and corrupt. The Nigerian Joint Task Force (JTF) has provided inadequate and violent response to the Boko Haram attacks. The JTF has been involved in killing suspects without fair trial as well as killing random members of communities suspected of supporting the Boko Haram. This "heavy-handed" approach violates human rights with its lack of access to a fair trial and use of discriminatory techniques to determine perpetrators of violence.

Within the regular Nigerian Police Force, there are high amounts of corruption and violations that include extortion and embezzlement. The police force takes advantage of the people by putting up roadblocks that require a fee to pass and taking money for no legal reason. Within the police force, there is no equal protection under the law. The wealthy are able to buy the police for security as well as expecting the police to turn a blind eye to illegal activities they participate in.

On 2 August 2019, two officers of the Nigerian Police Force's Anti-Cultism Squad, Insp. Ogunyemi Olalekan and Sgt. Godwin Orji, were arrested and charged with murdering a man during a raid in Lagos. On 21 August 2019, four SARS operatives were arrested and charged with murder after being caught on film manhandling and then shooting to death two suspected phone thieves in broad daylight. The two suspected phone thieves were shot dead after they had been arrested.

On 5 January 2020, three Nigerian Police Force officers were arrested after beating a bus passenger, named Justice Obasi, after he refused to unlock his mobile phone. On 3 April 2020, a Nigerian police officer was arrested for assaulting a port worker.  On 18 April 2020, the Nigerian Police Force stated that two of its officers were arrested after being caught on film beating a woman at the Odo Ori Market in Iwo, Osun.