[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Great Syrian Revolt

ad the revolution in the Ghouta area of Damascus.

The results of the revolution 

The revolution achieved some progress in the national struggle for independence from France. Ultimately though, the Syrians had failed in their primary goal of independence and the removal of French forces from Syria.

 The revolution led to the resurrection of the movement calling for the establishment of a royal government in Syria, as supporters of this project see it as the only guarantee for the establishment of sincere and continuous cooperation to implement the Mandate. Ali bin Al Hussein was the candidate for this throne, but the project failed due to the Syrians’ rejection.
 The revolution forced France to reunify Syria after dividing it into four states (Damascus, Aleppo, Jabal Alawites, and Jabal al-Druze).
 France agreed to hold elections in which the national opposition, led by Ibrahim Hananu and Hashim al-Atassi, won.
 France carried out administrative reforms by removing its high commissioner and some its military officers in Syria and appointing replacements for them.
 Syrian nationalists began to look for an alternative method to achieve independence and were forced to change its tactics political form.
 Damascus was bombed by air for 24 continuous hours, and some villages in Jabal al-Druze were emptied of their residents as a result of their destruction and burning.
 The revolution led to an increase in Syrian nationalism and unity after previous sectarian divisions.

Martyrs of the Great Syrian Revolution 
The death toll of the Great Syrian Revolution reached 4,213 people, distributed in the following Syrian governorates:

 315 dead in Aleppo and Idlib
 331 dead in Latakia, Tartus and the coast
 731 dead in Damascus and Ghouta
 150 dead in Hama
 250 dead in Homs, Al-Nabek and An-Nabek District (Rif Dimashq Governorate)
 71 dead in Deir ez-Zor and Al Jazira
 34 dead in Daraa
 2,064 dead in Jabal al-Druze
 267 dead in the Al-Balan region, Rashaya, Majdal Shams and the surrounding villages

Memorial of the Great Syrian Revolution 
The edifice of the Great Syrian Revolution is located in the town of Al-Qurayya,  south of the city of As-Suwayda which is the birthplace of the leader of the revolution, Sultan al-Atrash. The edifice's construction began in 1987, and was opened in 2010 with an area of , and includes the construction of the edifice and its annexes on a site of . The building of the edifice consists of in its ground section the General Museum of the Great Syrian Revolution edifice, which is considered a living witness to the revolutionaries’ exploits and heroism in the face of French colonialism.

Next to the museum is located in the centre of the edifice a central hall that houses the remains of the commander in chief of the Great Syrian Revolution, the Mujahid Sultan al-Atrash, in addition to a mosaic panorama embodying the battles of the revolution and paintings documenting the names of the battles and the martyrs who were killed in them, in addition to an administration room, a library, and a special museum for the commander in chief containing the Arab dress. His complete cloak, dress, waistcoat, jacket, hat, weapons and military equipment, including a military rifle, a machine gun that he used, a hunting rifle, four machine guns, a French rifle, a leather belt to store bullets, a wooden stick in the form of a pin and some bullets, in addition to National Order of the Cedar that he was awarded, as well as two French swords, one of which belongs to a campaign leader. Blasphemy General Norman, a third sword sheath, two field phones, a signal pistol, three bullets, a detonator, a machine gun, and aircraft counters.

See also 
 Saleh al-Ali

References

Further reading 
 Daniel Neep,  Occupying Syria under the French mandate: insurgency, space and state formation (Cambridge University Press, 2012), pp 101–130.
 Michael Provence, The Great Syrian Revolt and the Rise of Arab Nationalism (University of Texas Press, 2005). online
 Anne-Marie Bianquis et Elizabeth Picard, Damas, miroir brisé d'un orient arabe, édition Autrement, Paris 1993.
 Lenka Bokova, La confrontation franco-syrienne à l'époque du mandat – 1925–1927, éditions l'Harmattan, Paris, 1990
 Général Andréa, La Révolte druze et l'insurrection de Damas, 1925–1926, éditions Payot, 1937
 Le Livre d'or des troupes du Levant : 1918–1936. <Avant-propos du général Huntziger.>, Préfacier Huntziger, Charles Léon Clément, Gal. (S. l.), Imprimerie du Bureau typographique des troupes du Levant, 1937.