[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

The other battalion joined some Ohio infantry regiments to form Cox's 3rd Brigade of the Kanawha Division, which was commanded by Colonel (later Major General) George Crook. This brigade normally operated apart from Cox. Its camp was located at Meadow Bluff, west of Lewisburg in Greenbrier County.

Crook, Heth, and Lewisburg
On May 23, 1862, Colonel Crook's 3rd Brigade routed rebel infantry in a conflict where the shooting lasted for only 27 minutes. Rebel casualties were 72 men killed, over 100 wounded, and 157 men taken prisoner. They also lost four cannon, 300 small weapons, and 25 horses. Crook's brigade lost 13 killed, 50 wounded (including Crook, who was shot in the foot), and 6 missing. The feat was accomplished by taking advantage of aggressive rebel soldiers and a hostile town. Crook had learned that a large rebel infantry under the command of General Henry Heth was moving toward Lewisburg. Crook positioned his brigade at the far end of the town, and sent a small group of pickets to the opposite end where the rebels would approach. Heth's rebels raced into town after the pickets, urged on by the pro-rebel local population. The rebels were quickly ambushed in a short action that ended after a charge by Union infantry and cavalry. The 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry battalion had been held out of the fighting, but was used to chase the fleeing rebels. The rebels escaped by burning the Greenbrier Bridge.

On June 23, Crook's brigade searched for Heth's infantry again, but Heth withdrew to the mountains. On the same day, Colonel William M. Bolles resigned from the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry. In the following months, three officers were promoted. Lieutenant Colonel Paxton was promoted to colonel during July. During August, Major Rollin L. Curtis was promoted to lieutenant colonel, and Captain William H. Powell was promoted to major. Additional promotions occurred within the companies.

Kanawha Valley Campaign

On August 14, 1862, Cox began moving his Kanawha Division toward Washington as reinforcement for Major General John Pope's Army of Virginia. Exceptions to Cox's orders were the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry and two regiments of Ohio infantry, which remained in the area for defensive purposes. The three regiments moved to Kanawha Falls in what is now south central West Virginia, at the beginning of the Kanawha River—which flows to the Ohio River. They were put under the command of Colonel Joseph Andrew Jackson Lightburn. Thus, the two battalions of 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry were reunited, with Colonel John C. Paxton commanding the cavalry regiment. Confederate leaders soon learned of the force reduction, and made plans to drive the Union army out of the Kanawha Valley.

In early September 1862, Colonel Lightburn became aware of rebel cavalry led by Colonel Albert G. Jenkins, which invaded Ohio. After a brief incursion into Ohio, Jenkins positioned his cavalry at Barboursville, which blocked one of Lightburn's possible routes to the safety of the Ohio River. Jenkins also prepared to move toward the Kanawha River and Charleston—which could block all of Lightburn's retreat routes to Ohio. Lightburn also received news that the Confederate General William W. Loring was advancing from the south with a force rumored to be between 8,000 and 10,000 men. (The actual number was 5,000 plus new recruits.) Lightburn faced the possibility of confronting an army (Loring) that he thought was much larger than his while having no easy way to retreat because of Jenkins.

Lightburn responded to the threat by splitting his army into two brigades plus a few small posts. One brigade, commanded by Colonel Edward Siber, was positioned on the south side of the Kanawha River (between the river and Loring). The other brigade, commanded by Colonel Samuel A. Gilbert, was positioned on the north side of the river. Lightburn also sent six companies of the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry in pursuit of Jenkins's cavalry.

The cavalry pursuing Jenkins was led by Colonel Paxton, and the advance guard consisted of CompanyB led by Major William Powell.  On September 8, Powell's advance group attacked Jenkins's rebel camp outside of Barboursville. The camp was captured, and Jenkins himself barely escaped. The rebel force, which was much larger than Paxton's cavalry, was driven up (southward) the Guyandotte River. It was discovered that Jenkins planned to move his cavalry toward Charleston the next day—to intercept Lightburn if his Union Army retreated.