[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2000 United States Senate election in New York

aides and national Republican figures concluded that his interest in the campaign was flagging, as although he was desirous of winning in political combat against a Clinton, he was by nature an executive personality and the prospect of serving as one of a hundred legislators was unappealing to him.

By this time, Clinton was 8 to 10 points ahead of Giuliani in the polls.  In retrospect, The New York Times would write that the battle so far between the two had comprised "a blistering year of mental gamesmanship, piercing attacks, contrasts in personalities and positions, and blunders played out by two outsize political figures in a super-heated atmosphere."

Giuliani's tumultuous four weeks 

Giuliani's marriage to his wife, broadcast journalist and actress Donna Hanover, had been distant since 1996, and the two were rarely seen in public together.  There had been no formal announcement of any change in their relationship, although Hanover had indicated that she and their children would not move to Washington if Giuliani won the race.  Beginning in October 1999, a new woman was being spotted at mayoral functions.  By March 2000, Giuliani had stopped wearing his wedding ring and was being seen more in the company of this other woman, including at the Inner Circle press dinner, the St. Patrick's Day parade, and town hall meetings, but it was not yet fully clear whether the relationship was personal or professional.  While this woman had become a frequent subject of insider talk among the New York political circle, she had not been mentioned in the press.

On April 20 Hanover announced that she would soon be taking over the lead role in Eve Ensler's controversial play The Vagina Monologues.  Political observers speculated that Hanover was partly engaging in a political act against her husband, as Ensler was a friend and supporter of Hillary Clinton and the role would not go over well with social conservatives within the Republican Party.  Giuliani declined to say whether he would attend one of her performances.  On April 22, the New York Post obtained photographs of Giuliani openly strolling on a Manhattan street with the other woman after they left a restaurant, but did not have more than a first name for her; the Post sat on the story, but it was clear the relationship was a personal one.

On April 26, television channel NY1 reported that Giuliani had undergone a second round of tests for prostate cancer at Mount Sinai Medical Center; the same disease had led to the death of his father.  On April 28, Giuliani held a news conference to announce that he did in fact have prostate cancer, but it was in an early stage.  He was unsure of which of several types of treatment he might undergo, and that decision would impact whether he could stay in the Senate race or not.  Hanover was not present at the conference, but issued a note saying she would support him in his decision process.

As Giuliani mulled over his medical options, on May 1 Hanover announced that she was postponing her appearance in The Vagina Monologues due to "personal family circumstances."  On May 2 the New York Daily News published a brief item about Giuliani's other woman, without name or description.  On May 3 the New York Post finally published its photographs of Giuliani and the woman, now identified as Judith Nathan, leaving a restaurant together, under the front-page headline "Rudy's Mystery Brunch Pal is Upper East Side Divorcée".  (Some observers felt that Giuliani, known for his ability to manipulate the New York media, had been eager for news of the relationship to come out.)  Later that day, Giuliani responded to a barrage of questions on the subject at a news conference by acknowledging Judith Nathan publicly for the first time, calling her "a very good friend" and expressing his annoyance that her privacy was being invaded.  The next days were filled with New York media coverage on Nathan's background and on the relationship.  On May 6 Hanover held an unusually-located news conference at the back of St. Patrick's Cathedral before the funeral of Cardinal John O'Connor; visibly trembling, she said, "I will be supportive of Rudy in his fight against his illness, as this marriage and this man have been very precious to me."  The following day half the press tried to stake out Nathan's known locations while the rest pestered Nathan's hometown relatives in Hazleton, Pennsylvania; Giuliani looked weak in a public appearance.