[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yona Bogale

Yona Bogale (; 1908–1987) was an Ethiopian Jewish educator and public figure, who served as the director of the Beta Israel education network in Ethiopia and worked vigorously for the immigration of Ethiopian Jews to Israel. He led the efforts to improve the living conditions of the Beta Israel in Ethiopia by expanding education, providing medical facilities, increasing agricultural production and promoting religious freedom. His persistence in the face of opposition enabled many thousands of his people to fulfill their lifelong dream of Aliyah, or return to the homeland of Israel.

Biography 

Yona Bogale was born in 1908 in the rural village of Wolleqa, near Gondar in Northern Ethiopia, The eldest of five children of Bogale Birru and Beletu Reda, he was raised in a family of farmers and goat and cattle herders, but showed an early aptitude for language and education. With the help of Dr. Jacob (Jacques) Faitlovitch and Professor Tamrat Emmanuel, he completed his primary studies, and at the age of 12, and was one of several young people selected to study abroad. After attending elementary school in Jerusalem for four years, he spent two years in high school in Frankfurt, Germany. He attended the University of Heidelberg in Germany for two years and completed his international studies at the Asher Institute for Jewish Education in Lausanne, Switzerland, and the Alliance Francaise Universelle in Paris, France. After returning to Addis Ababa in 1932, he taught in the teacher training and boarding school opened there by Faitlovitch, eventually becoming its principal. From 1935, Bogale served as a translator for the Ethiopian Red Cross at the time of the Italian invasion and occupation of Ethiopia. Afterwards, he returned to work in several private businesses, before being appointed in 1941 to a position in the Ethiopian government by King Hailie Selassie I. In 1945, he married Tayitu Kelkele and began a union that spanned 45 years and produced eight children. After Ethiopia gained its independence, Bogale worked as head of the translation department in the Ethiopian Ministry of Education for twelve years. Then, with the cooperation of the Jewish Agency, Sochnut Hayhudit, Bogale opened and supervised more than 20 Jewish schools in Ethiopia. In the wake of Faitlovitch's death. in 1955, Bogale and Tamrat Emmanuel became the lead advocates for the Beta Israel community. For the next two decades, he was the driving force in opening new schools, medical facilities, prayer houses and agricultural stations in the northwestern part of Ethiopia. His work drew the attention of religious leaders and government officials in Israel, as well as Jewish organizations worldwide, particularly with regard to his goal of aliyah for all Ethiopian Jews.

Quest for Aliyah
In 1979, increasingly pressured by the Derg, the military coalition that had replaced the King, Bogale emigrated to Israel with help from the American Association for Ethiopian Jews and his own relatives. Later that same year, Bogale, his son, Zecarias Yona,  Rahamim Elazar and Baruch Tegegne traveled to Montreal, Canada, at the invitation of the Council of the Jewish Federations, to address that organization's General Assembly. On November 19, Bogale spoke during the plenary session to the 2,500 North American Jewish leaders in attendance. Following his presentation, delegates passed a pro-Beta Israel resolution, becoming the first major Jewish organization to support saving the Ethiopian Jewish community.

Upon his return to Israel, with the assistance of Prime Minister Menachem Begin, Bogale began consolidating support for Beta Israelis to return to their homeland. During the next few years, many Jews fled Ethiopia, stopping at refugee camps in Sudan, before arriving in Israel, although thousands died along the way. Finally, in 1984, with the cooperation of the Israel Defense Forces, the Central Intelligence Agency, the United States embassy in Khartoum, mercenaries, and Sudanese state security forces., a covert initiative named Operation Moses airlifted some 8,000 Beta Israelis to Israel. Bogale's son, Zecarias, played a key role in both Operations Moses and Solomon. The latter was an airlift by the Israeli military in 1991 that brought more than 14,000 Ethiopian Jews from Addis Ababa to Jerusalem.

Yona Bogale died in 1987 at his home in Petah Tikva. His funeral was attended by over 4,000 mourners, including the Speaker of the Knesset, Shlomo Hillel. He was buried in Har Hamenuchot, Jerusalem, near the grave of his teacher, Professor Tamrat Emmanuel .

Legacy