[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nuclear power in Spain

nca (Juzbado) and a storage facility for radioactive waste, low and intermediate level in Córdoba (El Cabril).

In 2018, Teresa Ribera signed an agreement with Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy, which postponed the decommission of all Spanish nuclear power plants from 2028 to 2035.

Nuclear power plants

In 1964, Spain began construction on its first of three nuclear reactors and completed construction in 1968.
This became the first commercial nuclear reactor. In the 1970s, Spain began construction on seven second generation reactors, but only completed five. A moratorium was enacted by the socialist government in 1983. Spain stopped the building of new nuclear power plants in 1984.

The first generation of nuclear plants in Spain were all turnkey projects, including the José Cabrera Nuclear Power Plant and the Vandellòs Nuclear Power Plant.

The second generation of plants were domestically built by companies including Empresarios Agrupados, INITEC and ENSA (Equipos Nucleares SA). Five of these were built.

The third generation of Spanish plants (not to be confused with Generation III) includes the Trillo-1 and Vandellos-2. All of the other five units of this series were halted in the middle of construction after a moratorium stopping further construction passed in 1994. Capacity of the nuclear fleet has still increased since then due to power uprates.

There are no plans for either expansion or accelerated closure of nuclear plants. A leak of radioactive material from the Ascó I nuclear power plant in November 2007 sparked protests. The country's government has pledged to shut down its eight nuclear reactors once wind and solar energy become viable alternatives such as in neighbouring country Portugal.

Fuel cycle

ENUSA is a company in Spain with various holdings in uranium mining. A Uranium mine in Saelices el Chico was operated for some time, but is now decommissioned and Spain imports all of its Uranium fuel.

State owned Empresa Nacional de Residuos Radiactivos SA was established in 1984 and is the responsible outfit for radioactive waste disposal and decommissioning. There is a temporary dry storage facility at the Trillo Nuclear Power Plant, and research for a long term geological repository won't commence until 2010.

Nuclear waste 
Spain stores nuclear waste at the reactor sites for ten years with no reprocessing. Plans for future storage include a temporary storage facility in Trillo, until the establishment of a longer-term storage facility. Funding for nuclear waste management is paid by a tax of 1% on all revenues from nuclear power.

As of 2017 Spain has extended the life of the Almaraz Nuclear Power Plant and a nuclear storage facility will be built according to the Spanish secretary of State for the EU Jorge Toledo Albiñana, stating work will start regardless of Portugals complaints, and uranium bars that will remain radioactive for the next 300 years will be stored on site.

See also 
Electricity sector in Spain
Energy in Spain
Anti-nuclear movement in Spain
Spanish Nuclear Safety Council

References

External links 
WNA profile: Nuclear Power in Spain

Science and technology in Spain