[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Gilad Shalit

in order to compel the enemy to meet certain demands, while threatening to harm or kill the person if the demands are not met", and thus holding Shalit as a hostage to their demands is a war crime. B'Tselem also noted that denying access to ICRC visitations is also a violation of international law.

Israeli NGO Monitor said that Shalit's abductors breach several provisions of the Third Geneva Convention, e.g., the right to humane treatment (Art. 13); the right to have knowledge of a POW's location (Art. 23); and the right to unfettered access to the Red Cross (Art. 126).

Human Rights Watch also stated that Hamas authorities were obligated by the laws of war to allow Shalit to correspond with his family, and noted that three letters and a voice recording cannot be counted as regular correspondence. HRW also called for him to receive visits from the ICRC, and said that the prolonged incommunicado detention of Shalit was cruel and inhumane and amounted to torture.

A UN fact-finding mission headed by Judge Richard Goldstone assigned to investigate the Gaza War, which released its Report in September 2009, called for Shalit to be released.

In June 2010, on the fourth anniversary of Shalit's abduction, Human Rights Watch made a statement describing Hamas' treatment of Shalit as "cruel and inhuman," saying it illustrates the UN definition of torture and violates the international rules of war by prohibiting him from having contact with his family or visits from the Red Cross.

Gerald Steinberg, president of "human rights watchdog NGO Monitor", was quoted in October 2011 as saying that many human rights organizations, "such as the UN Human Rights Council, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Network, Gisha, and the International Red Cross demonstrated very little interest" in the Shalit case.

Campaigns for his release

5th Anniversary Campaign (2011) 
In June 2011, the Zionist Federation, among other organizations, stepped up a campaign to ensure that Shalit and his abduction are not forgotten, encouraging members and sympathizers to contact their local MP, MEP and to write letters to newspapers and to Shalit's family with words of support. This followed a two-week Gilad Shalit Awareness Campaign in February, organized by the Embassy of Israel alongside ten other community organizations.

Several prominent Israeli, Palestinian, and international human rights organizations issued a joint statement in June 2011 calling on Hamas to end its "illegal" and "inhumane" treatment of Shalit, including Amnesty International, B'Tselem, Bimkom, Gisha, Human Rights Watch, Palestinian Center for Human Rights, Physicians for Human Rights, Public Committee Against Torture in Israel, Rabbis for Human Rights, The Association for Civil Rights in Israel, Yesh Din; though Noah Pollak, writing in Commentary, noted that the statement did not call for the release of Shalit.

A protest was also held in August 2011 outside Benjamin Netanyahu's office to mark Shalit's sixth birthday in captivity. Gilad Shalit's father Noam also spoke at the social justice protest in Tel Aviv.

Gilad Shalit Worldwide Tehillim Project 
The Gilad Shalit Worldwide Tehillim Project
was established to support the reciting of Tehillim (Psalms) for Gilad Shalit. The goal was to have all of Tehillim recited daily.

Life after release
The Israeli Defense Ministry, in anticipation of his release, determined that Shalit would be accorded the status of a disabled veteran with a minimum of 20% disability immediately following his liberation from captivity. At the time of his abduction, Shalit held the rank of corporal, but he was promoted to sergeant during his captivity. Upon his release, Shalit returned to his parents' residence in Mitzpe Hila, an event that garnered substantial attention both within Israel and internationally, resulting in the presence of numerous media outlets and ordinary citizens in Mitzpe Hila. In an act of consideration for Shalit's privacy, many Israeli media organizations committed to limiting extensive coverage of his return.

Following his release from captivity, Shalit initiated medical treatment for his injuries. On November 4, he underwent a surgical procedure at Rambam Medical Center in Haifa to extract shrapnel fragments lodged in his arm during his abduction. During the approximately two-hour surgery, medical professionals removed seven pieces of shrapnel from his elbow and forearm, two of which were exerting pressure on nerves.

In contrast to the conventional protocol of immediately conducting debriefing sessions upon the return of Israeli prisoners of war and captives, the defense establishment opted to allow Shalit a period of acclimatization subsequent to his release.