[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Abdel-Wahed El-Wakil

Abdel-Wahed El-Wakil (, born 7 August 1943) is an Egyptian architect who designed over 15 mosques in Saudi Arabia and is considered by many as the foremost contemporary authority in Islamic architecture. For designing in traditional styles, he is also a representative of New Classical Architecture.

Life

Education 
El-Wakil's early education was in Egypt at the British schools of Victoria College and the English School. In 1960, he obtained his GCE and graduated with a distinction in Applied Mathematics, Art, Physics, and Chemistry. In the same year, he joined the Faculty of Engineering at Ain Shams University and in 1965 acquired his BSc in Architecture with Distinction and First Honours Degree. It was while studying for his degree that El-Wakil became acquainted with the writings of English critic John Ruskin. Ruskin's descriptions of what he termed an "arborescent" quality in architecture (a bold structure of decoration, legible at a distance, reveals ever-finer sub-structures as you approach it) had a lasting effect upon him.

From 1965 to 1970, he was appointed as an instructor and lecturer at the Architecture Department of his Faculty.

In 1967, El-Wakil's whole approach to architecture was altered when he met with his mentor professor Hassan Fathy. Having previously built three apartment buildings in the idioms of his former education in modern-style architecture, El-Wakil decided to become an apprentice to Hassan Fathy. As with Frank Lloyd Wright, Hassan Fathy's mention was taboo at the Ain Shams Department of Architecture and that forced El-Wakil to end his teaching post at the Faculty and begin his new education with his mentor.

Career 
Hassan Fathy’s quest for indigenous architecture had taken the momentum from the post-war crisis of World War II. The war caused an economic shortage in industrial construction materials. It then occurred to Hassan Fathy that the Nubians of Upper Egypt managed to build the most beautiful houses with mud - the humble material below their feet.

After five years of working with Hassan Fathy, El-Wakil had the opportunity to design and build a house by the beach of Agamy near Alexandria. The Six-Day War of 1967 had brought Egypt into an economic disaster and again modern building materials became scarce and expensive. It was a unique opportunity for El-Wakil to interpret Hassan Fathy's design philosophy of architecture for the poor. The Halawa house at Agamy made use of the abundant limestone within the area introducing the first indigenous Egyptian architecture in a resort that began with a pseudo French Riviera style and finished with pseudo-Modern.

El-Wakil built two more houses in Egypt. The Hamdy House, and the Chourbagy house, both by the Pyramids Road on the outskirts of Cairo.

The Hamdy house was conceived as a small weekend house with a sleeping loft. The design encapsulated in an embryonic form the main elements in traditional Arab houses.

The Courage House was conceived as a model for a typical townhouse on a narrow frontage plot. The house-made extensive use of traditional design elements and local craftsmanship.

Saudi Arabian career 

With the oil boom in 1973, Saudi Arabia provided a majority of commissions for El-Wakil. He undertook the design of a number of grand mansions developing a design approach of internalised spaces of atriums, patios, and courtyards, which appeared unfamiliar to the prevailing trend of extrovert villa type houses.

The first in this series of houses was the Zahran mansion, as a precursor to the Suleiman palace in Jeddah. The Suleiman palace became a unique expression of contemporary architecture applying traditional Arab design concepts. In a survey of architecture in Saudi Arabia, the AIA Journal nominated it as one of the best designs accomplished.

Two more houses were built in Saudi Arabia; the Alireza mansion in Riyadh and the Kandiel house in Jeddah, both in load-bearing brick construction.

Another three interesting house designs in Saudi Arabia, that failed to get built, were the Mansur Badr residence in Riyadh, the Mansur Badr townhouse in Makkah, and the Hossam Khashoggi residence in Taif.

Other works 

Beyond Saudi Arabia, El-Wakil designed a contemporary Arab courtyard town house for Farouk Sultan in Kuwait. The University of Durham in UK taught the design of the Farouk Sultan house as an example of environmental design.

Another small house was designed on the Island of Hydra in Greece. In his book ‘A Vision of Britain’, The Prince of Wales presented it as an example for his ideas on traditional architecture.

In 1993, El-Wakil designed a mansion for Thomas Kramer in Miami, Florida. Vincent Scully, in his book ‘Between the Two Towers’ gave it generous mention.

By the time the Suleiman mansion had been completed, El-Wakil's work had caught the attention of Sheikh Said Farsi, the mayor of Jeddah, who appointed him as advisor.