[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# International response to the Spanish Civil War

ill not officially recognised. By 1938, Vatican City had already officially recognised the Nationalists, one of the first countries to do so.

Regarding the position of the Holy See during and after the war, Manuel Montero, a lecturer at the University of the Basque Country, commented on 6 May 2007:

Nationalist foreign volunteers
Volunteer troops from other countries fought with the Nationalists but are not as well known as the Republican volunteers because only a few fought as national units. Among the latter was the 500-strong French Jeanne d'Arc company of the Spanish Foreign Legion, which was formed mostly from members of the far-right Croix de Feu.
Another 11,100 volunteers from countries as diverse as Spanish Guinea, the Philippines, the United States, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Venezuela, Puerto Rico, Peru, Bolivia, Haiti, Dominican Republic, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Honduras, Ghana, Bolivia, Ecuador, Panama, Guatemala, Hungary, Romania, Costa Rica, Suriname, Turkey, The Netherlands and Australia fought for the Nationalists. In 1937, Franco turned down separate offers of national legions from Belgium and Greece, which had been made by foreign sympathisers. Exiled White Russians, including veterans already fighting for Franco, made multiple attempts at creating a separate Russian unit; however, all these motions were reviewed and ultimately rejected.

Ion Moța, the Romanian deputy leader of the Legion of the Archangel Michael (or the Iron Guard), led a group of seven Legionaries who visited Spain in December 1936 to ally their movement to the Nationalists by presenting a ceremonial sword to survivors of the Siege of Alcazar. In Spain, the Legionaires decided, against the orders that had been given to them in Bucharest, to join the Spanish Foreign Legion. Within days of joining, Moța and Vasile Marin, another prominent Legionary, were killed on the Madrid Front at Majadahonda.

After the extravagant and widely-publicised funerals of Ion Moța and Vasile Marin, they became a prominent part of the Legion's mythology.

The Norwegian writer Per Imerslund fought with the Falange militia in the war in 1937.

Outside of Ireland (see below), fighting for the Nationalist cause seems not to have held much appeal in the English-speaking world, according to historian Hugh Thomas. British journalist Peter Kemp was among the few who did, serving as an officer with a Carlist battalion for the Nationalists and was wounded. Thomas Krock, son of the famed American journalist Arthur Krock, was among the few Americans who fought for the Nationalists.

A landlord from Söke, Turkey named Fahri Tanman volunteered for the nationalist forces.

International
Anticlericalism and the murder of 4,000 clergy and many more nuns by the Republicans made many Catholic writers and intellectuals cast their lot with Franco, including Evelyn Waugh, Carl Schmitt, Hilaire Belloc, Roy Campbell, Giovanni Papini, Paul Claudel, J. R. R. Tolkien and those associated with the Action Française. Others, such as Jacques Maritain, François Mauriac and Georges Bernanos, initially supported Franco but later grew disenchanted with both sides.

Many artists with right-wing sympathies, such as Ezra Pound, Gertrude Stein, Wyndham Lewis, Robert Brasillach and Pierre Drieu La Rochelle voiced support for the Nationalists. Brasillach collaborated with Maurice Bardèche on his own Histoire de la Guerre d'Espagne, and the protagonist in Drieu La Rochelle's novel Gille travels to Spain to fight for the Falange. Lewis's The Revenge for Love (begun 1934) details the anarchist-communist conflict in the years preceding the war; though it is not a Spanish Civil War novel, it is often mistaken for one.

Even though the Mexican government supported the Republicans, most of the Mexican population, such as the peasant Cristeros, preferred Franco and the Nationalists. Mexico had suffered from the 1926–1929 Cristero War in which President Plutarco Elías Calles tried to enforce militant state atheism; it led to the deaths of many people as well as the suppression of popular religious Mexican celebrations.

Irish volunteers

Around 700 of Eoin O'Duffy's followers went to Spain to fight on Franco's side. O'Duffy's Irish Brigade, which legionnaires considered its primary role in Spain to be fighting against communism and defending Catholicism, quickly became disenchanted with Nationalist cause, in part by the brutality of its tactics. As a result, Franco never dispatched a transport ship for 600 additional volunteers whom O'Duffy had recruited. In February 1937, Éamon de Valera's government passed a law prohibiting volunteers from leaving for Spain to fight for either side.