[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The World Before (novel)

.  Eventually the second ship from Eqbas Vorhi arrives and it is massive.  The ship itself rearranges and two smaller ships split off from it; one to reconnoiter Bezer'ej and the other for Umeh.  The tension on Umeh heightens with this and the Isenj try to make the Wess'Har withdraw but to no avail.

Shan is filling out and getting stronger thanks to the care of Ade and Aras.  She finds that she has feelings for both men and Aras, whose people practice polyandry, finds this acceptable and would like a house brother but fears that Shan will come to prefer Ade because of their shared homeworld.  Ade is having a harder time contemplating a polyandric relationship but is coping as best he can.  As Shan gets stronger she begins getting involved in the politics and the goings-on of F'nar.  She also makes a trip to Bezer'ej to view the destruction and what the Eqbas are doing to repair the damage.  While there, they discover that the blast did not destroy the c'naatat and that there are some survivors of Bezeri.  The Bezeri only want to talk to Aras, though.  When Aras journeys to the world, the Bezeri tell him that they want those responsible turned over to them for "balancing".  Aras knows that the Bezeri would include the Royal Marines in their list of those responsible, so to protect Ade, Aras lies and says that it was just Neville and Rayat.  The Bezeri also want Aras to come stay with them underwater to help them rebuild and recover what they've lost.  Aras is torn by his duty to the Bezeri and his duty to stay with Shan and make her happy.

The Eqbas are moving right into their roles as peacekeepers and environmental control.  They advise both Earth and Umeh to prepare for their coming and the changes that will entail.  In the instance of Umeh, population control and environmental cleansing—and in the case of Earth, they plan to restore the plants and animals held in the gene bank; whether Earth likes it or not.  They are also cleaning up the damage on Bezer'ej in record time.  On Wess'Har, one Eqbas named Shapakti, is performing miracles.  He has found a way to separate c'naatat from its human host, using sample tissue from Shan, but not from its wess'har host.  He also started creating a jungle habitat using DNA and genomes from the gene bank.

Aras decides that he will go live with the Bezeri in spite of the pain it will cause him to be separated from Shan.  Ade wants Shan to be happy and feels that he is in the way of Shan's and Aras' happiness so he decides to force Aras not to go.  The solution presents itself in the form of Mohan Rayat and Lindsey Neville.  Lindsey wants to redeem herself (and not die) and feels that the best way to accomplish this is to live underwater and serve the Bezeri.  This would mean becoming infected with c'naatat.  Ade agrees to this and infects both her and Rayat and send them to the depths with the Bezeri.  Shan knows nothing of all this at this point and seems to finally accept her role as an isan to Ade and Aras in their polyandric relationship.

References

2005 British novels
Wess'Har series
American science fiction novels
Novels by Karen Traviss
HarperCollins books