[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jade Esteban Estrada

"Jade Esteban Estrada knows how to draw an audience in and hold them in the palm of his hand," wrote Deborah Martin of the San Antonio Express-News. "He puts that skill to fine use in The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs, a solo show written by Mike Daisey exploring the cult of tech giant Apple.

In 2016, Estrada played a three-week run of ICONS: The Lesbian and Gay History of the World, Vol. 1 at the Fringe World Festival in Perth, Australia. Mae Anthony of Dircksey Magazine described the continental premiere as "a poignant, informative show [full of] humour, witty lyricism, and outrageous cheek. Jade was in character, right up until next the icon’s wig was put on. These funny, and often, deeply moving characterisations were expressed through costumes, accents, songs, expressive monologues - and not to mention the outright demolition of the fourth wall - and gave me a fresh insight into the various struggles faced by the gay community throughout history." In 2017, Estrada performed the show in Cape Town, South Africa and was featured on the cover of Out Africa Magazine's Summer 2017 issue. Editor Keith Coventry wrote, "From the acceptance of same-sex relationships in the ancient world to the religious demonisation in later centuries. From the wit of Wilde to the tragedy of the holocaust, ICONS is an enlightening, educational and, above all, entertaining experience as he turns the pages of history."

In 2018, Estrada starred in the San Antonio production of Bernard J. Taylor's The Kindness of Strangers, a one-person show about the life of Tennessee Williams. Playwright Mark Leonard lauded Estrada's "brilliant, energetic portrayal of Williams. Both Taylor and Estrada deftly sidestep the cloying cliches to offer a gripping and vastly entertaining hour or so in the company of an American genius bent on self-destruction. Their Tennessee has heart, soul, rage, and wit and it is well worth spending an evening entranced and entertained in his company."

Later that year, Estrada wrote and starred in two new solo shows: Magick: An Evening with Aleister Crowley and A Sign from the Taco Gods Both productions premiered at the Overtime Theater in San Antonio.

Journalism 
In 2011, Estrada began interviewing elected officials for his Glitter Political column which was originally published by the online news site, Plaza de Armas. In 2013, after Plaza de Armas ceased publication due to financial difficulties, his column was picked up by the San Antonio Current. In 2019, Bexar County Commissioner Tommy Calvert wrote, "Jade Esteban Estrada is one of the best political writers in Texas.".

Lectures and symposiums 
In 2001, Estrada delivered the keynote address at the OutFront Minnesota State Conference in Brainerd, Minnesota. In 2005, he presented From Latin Pop Performer to Gay Icon at Princeton University. In 2010, he presented Assimilation and the 21st Century Latino at Colorado State University. The following year, he presented The Politics of Being Gay and Latino in America at Blue Mountain Community College in Pendleton, Oregon.

In 2012, he was a panelist for How the Media Shapes, Influences or Explains Latino Identity at the 9th Annual Center for Mexican American Studies and Research Conference at Our Lady of the Lake University in San Antonio.

In 2015, the San Antonio Public Library invited Estrada to take part in a panel entitled Come OUT, which Don Mathis of the Rivard Report described as "a discussion with local LGBTQ artists who have contributed to the diversity of the arts and humanities."

Estrada presented his lecture, The Art of Storytelling, at the Metropolitan Community Church General Conference XXVI in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada in 2016.

Personal life 
Estrada is the cousin of golden age ranchera singer Janet Cortez (also known as "La Perla Tapatia") of the musical group Las Tesoros de San Antonio.

In 2008, Estrada began dating Star Search winner Ryan Bonn, however, the couple ended their relationship a year later.

In 2015, Estrada wrote about being estranged from his father ever since coming out.

Politics and activism 
Although Estrada has politically identified as nonpartisan since 2014, he has a history of supporting the U.S. Democratic Party, especially its LGBT programs and initiatives. In 2003, he supported Howard Dean's campaign for U.S. president and supported Barack Obama during the 2008 and 2012 presidential elections.

In 2013, Estrada was a guest speaker for the international grassroots movement March Against Monsanto.

Awards and recognition 
In 2002, author Ed Karvoski, Jr. featured Estrada on the cover of the book Award-Winning Men: Up Close and Personal with Gay Honorees.<ref>*[https://books.google.com/books?id=iLc8yAxxVpkC&q=%22jade+esteban+estrada%22%22%27%27Award-Winning&pg=PA49 Men: Up Close and Personal with Gay Honorees" by Ed Karvoski, Jr.]books.google.com 1/5/01</ref> Later that year, Estrada was grand marshal of the Tulsa and San Antonio LGBT Pride parades.