[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Cecily of York

ly in 1498) her eldest daughter Elizabeth Welles died, shortly before her betrothal with John Stanley, heir to George Stanley, 9th Baron Strange. It is known that in 1494 Cecily appeared in documents as a legatee under the will of her grandmother and namesake Cecily Neville, Dowager Duchess of York.

Widowhood
In 1498 (or 1499 according to other sources) Cecily, who was about thirty years old, was widowed. John fell ill with pleurisy – a disease that was not known about in England at that time and did not respond to conventional treatment. While on his deathbed, Viscount Welles signed a will, according to which he left all his property for life to his wife; he also requested in his will that he be buried where Cecily herself, the king, queen and the King's mother would deem fit. Welles died on 9 February 1498. Cecily organised a magnificent funeral for her husband and made some changes to the traditional burial ceremony: the viscount's body was delivered to Westminster by land, and not by river (bells rang along the entire route of the procession), and the coffin was accompanied by people of the highest ranks that etiquette allowed. The King's uncle's funeral was attended by the most notable lords: the Duke of Buckingham, the Earls of Northumberland, Derby, Essex and Devon. The memorial service was held at St Margaret's Church, Westminster, and was led by Thomas Savage, Bishop of London, and George Fasset, Abbot of Westminster.

Cecily's grief for her husband's death is said to have been considerable. A portion of the Viscount's will shows the relationship between the two:
Also I geve and bequethe to my dere beloved lady and wife Cecille, for terme of her lif, all my castelles, manors, landes and tenements, aswell suche as I have purchased as all odre during only her life, whome I trust above all oder, that if my goodes and catallis wilnot suffice for the performance of this my laste will, that she will thenne of the revenues of the profittes of my inheritance perform this my laste will. Also I will that a preste be founde for ever after my said wifes decease to sey masse daily for my sowle and all Cristen sowles at the said aulter of the yerely revenues of my purchased landes, and oder which my saide lady hath promised me faithfully to purchase to the same entent if my saide purchased landes suffice not therto. And I will yt suche residue as shall fortune to be of my goodes that my saide dere beloved lady and wife have theym to her owne use. And I make executors the saide Cecill, my dere beloved wife, and Sr Raynold Bray, knyght. . .

Mary Anne Everett Green writes that Cecily's youngest daughter, Anne Welles, died shortly after her father, but Rosemary Horrocks, in an entry on Cecily in the Oxford Biographical Dictionary, reports that Anne predeceased her father, and the fact that the girl is not mentioned in Viscount Welles' will supported this view; she was buried at Austin Friars, London. After the death of her husband and youngest daughter, Cecily decided to return to court to be with her older sister, with whom the princess had a very warm relationship. In addition to Elizabeth, Cecily was also patronized by the King's mother, Lady Margaret Beaufort, who helped the princess to protect her rights to the property of John Welles, which once belonged to his father, but became the object of claims by Lionel Welles' daughter from his first marriage. According to John's will, Cecily received for her use four mansions with the right to distribute parishes and beneficiaries (Advowson) and rent from other properties in Lincoln, as well as three estates with a total area of 1540 acres of meadow, pasture and forest land in Essex and rent from other properties in the same district.

The princess observed mourning for three years, after which she began to actively participate in the life of the court. She attended the wedding of her eldest nephew Arthur, Prince of Wales and Catherine of Aragon on 14 November 1501; witnesses report that Cecily, who had the honour of carrying the bride's train, was dressed in expensive fabrics, sewn in the latest fashion, and looked more like a marriageable girl than a widow. After the wedding, the court departed for the episcopal palace, where the main celebrations took place. During the jousting tournament, Cecily was present at the queen's gallery along with her sister, the newlyweds, princesses and other noble ladies. At the state dinner given the following Sunday, Cecily sat next to her sister the queen at "the most representative table in the chambers". It is also known that in May 1502, Cecily lent a certain amount of money to her sister.