[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jody Handley

and was also involved in the World Cup qualifying campaign, scoring a goal in the record 13–0 win against Hungary en route to China 2007. She played in the finals, coming on for the last ten minutes of England's third game against Argentina, a 6–1 win which guaranteed a place in the quarter-finals.

In May 2009, Handley was one of the first 17 female players to be given central contracts by The Football Association.

She was allotted 144 when the FA announced their legacy numbers scheme to honour the 50th anniversary of England’s inaugural international.

International goals
Scores and results list England's goal tally first.

Personal life
Handley attended Sir Graham Balfour School then studied health, diet and fitness at Liverpool University. She was later employed as a health development worker in Knowsley.

In 2018 she graduated from the University of Salford with a degree in Physiotherapy, the first female Professional Footballers Association member to graduate through the programme linked between the university and the PFA.

Honours

Club

Everton
FA Women's Cup (1): 2009–10
FA Women's Premier League Cup (1): 2007–08

Wolves
FA Women's Premier League Northern Division (1): 1993–94

References

External links
Jody Handley at the FA website
Jody Handley at the FA WASL website
Jody Handley at the Everton website

1979 births
Living people
English women's footballers
Liverpool F.C. Women players
Doncaster Rovers Belles L.F.C. players
Everton F.C. (women) players
England women's international footballers
FA Women's National League players
University of Detroit Mercy alumni
Alumni of Liverpool John Moores University
Women's Super League players
Expatriate women's soccer players in the United States
Footballers from Stafford
2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players
Alumni of the University of Salford
Women's association football wingers
Women's association football forwards
Wolverhampton Wanderers W.F.C. players
English expatriate sportspeople in the United States
English expatriate women's footballers
Detroit Mercy Titans women's soccer players