[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Trần Tử Bình

a famous collective escape for over 100 political prisoners.

After he returned to the rear, Trần Tử Bình was appointed as a standing member of Xu Uy Bac Ky and was in charge of establishment and development of Hoa-Ninh-Thanh military base for the League for the Independence of Vietnam (Viet Minh).

On August 14, 1945, the Japanese surrendered to the Allies. The leaders of Viet Minh decided to act promptly to seize the power from the weak and helpless Trần Trọng Kim's pro-Japanese puppet government before the French returned. On 19 August 1945, Trần Tử Bình and Nguyen Khang, the two representatives of Xu Uy Bac Ky remained in Hanoi, directly commanded the general uprising in Hanoi and some neighboring provinces which lead to a start of the successful August Revolution of 1945.

Military and political career

After the establishment of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, Trần Tử Bình was appointed as Vice Rector, Political Commissar of Tran Quoc Tuan Military Training Academy.

In 1947, he became Deputy Secretary of the General Political Department of Vietnamese People's Army. Late 1947, together with Le Thiet Hung, he successfully led the Vietnamese military forces to a military victory at Song Lo front.

On 1 January 1948, Trần Tử Bình was honored to receive a rank of major general and became one of the first 11 generals of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam along with other outstanding military officers like Võ Nguyên Giáp, Nguyễn Sơn, Le Thiet Hung, Chu Van Tan, Hoang Sam, Hoàng Van Thai, Le Hien Mai, Văn Tiến Dũng, Tran Dai Nghia, Nguyen Binh. In the same year he was appointed as Deputy Chief Inspector of the Vietnamese People's Army.

From 1950-56 he served as Political Commissar of the Vietnam's Ground Forces Officer Academy, which at that time was based in China. Since 1951 he was elected to be a representative of the Army Forces to the Third and Fourth National Communist Party Congress and member of the National Assembly.

After the First Indochina War (1946–54) general Trần Tử Bình was appointed as the Chief Inspector of the Army, Deputy Chief Inspector of the State. He served at these positions for two years (1956–58) before moved to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs following the personal request of president Ho Chi Minh.

In 1959, Trần Tử Bình was appointed as the Ambassador of Vietnam to the People's Republic of China and Mongolia. He worked as ambassador in China for two terms (1959–1967), perfectly performed his duty and contributed greatly to the development of cooperative relations between China and Vietnam.

On 11 February 1967, he died at the age 60 due to hypertension in Hanoi. He was honoured posthumously with the Gold Star medal, the most noble medal of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, befitting his long service to the state and  people of Vietnam.

References

External links 
"The historical prison escape", Nhan Dan newspaper
 Phú Riềng Đỏ (The Red Earth - Vietnamese Memoir of Life on a Colonial Rubber Plantation, Memoire of general Tran Tu Binh (1965), translated into English and published by Ohio University Press, 1985
 "August Revolution: an inevitable path leading to the Nation-State"
 "General, diplomat Tran Tu Binh gets posthumous Gold Star", Vietnamnews

1907 births
1967 deaths
Generals of the People's Army of Vietnam
Ambassadors of Vietnam to China
Ambassadors of Vietnam to Mongolia
Recipients of the Order of Ho Chi Minh
Vietnamese Roman Catholics
Members of the 3rd Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Vietnam