[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nuclear power in South Korea

had picked sites for two new nuclear plants.

The East Coast Solidarity for Anti-Nuke Group was formed in January 2012. 
The group is against nuclear power and against plans for new nuclear power plants in Samcheok and Yeongdeok, and for the closure of existing nuclear reactors in Wolseong and Gori.

In January 2012, 22 South Korean women's groups made a plea for a nuclear free future. The women said they feel an enormous sense of crisis after the Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011, which demonstrated the destructive power of radiation in the loss of human lives, environmental pollution, and contamination of food.

Choi Yul, president of the Korea Green Foundation, has said "The March 11 disaster has proven that nuclear power plants are not safe". Choi said antinuclear sentiment is growing in South Korea amid the Fukushima crisis, and there is a chance to reverse the country's nuclear policy in 2012 because South Korea is facing a presidential election. In 2014, a professor of atomic engineering at Seoul National University stated that "The public has totally lost trust in nuclear power".

Nuclear research
Research reactors:

 KRR-1 (Korea Research Reactor No. 1) General Atomics TRIGA Mark II (TRIGA-Mark II) Research Reactor,100kW , built 1962 (decommissioned)
 KRR-2 (Korea Research Reactor No. 2), General Atomics TRIGA Mark III  Research Reactor , 2MW, BUILT 1972 (decommissioned)
 AGN 201 SUWON,  Kyung Hee University, Aerojet General Nucleonics Model 201 Research reactor, 0.01kW commissioned 1982.
 High-Flux Advanced Neutron Application Reactor (HANARO), MAPLE class reactor
 KSTAR Reactor

See also 

 Energy in South Korea
 One Less Nuclear Power Plant, energy conservation policy of Seoul

Bibliography 

 Nuclear Transparency in the Asia Pacific: Nuclear reactor maps: Korea
 To Authorize the President to Extend the Term of the Agreement for Cooperation Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Korea Concerning Civil Uses of Nuclear Energy for a Period Not to Exceed March 19, 2016: Report (To Accompany H.R. 2449) (Including Cost Estimate of the Congressional Budget Office) United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs

References