[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blue dasher

individuals of the same species and individuals of other species, but males tend to fight (and win) more often than females. Researchers suggest that the more successful an individual is using aggression, then the more likely they will gain a better perch and thus increase their chance to find prey.

Life history
Pachydiplax longipennis larvae exhibit asynchronous emergence, meaning that the larvae do not emerge at the same time as one another. Based on general time of emergence, this species is still classified as a summer species. The larvae of this species often vary greatly in regard to size due to generational overlap of groups. This generational overlap is created by some groups producing one brood and other groups producing two broods in a breeding season.  The timing of P. longipennis larvae emergence has also been linked to the presence of its predator, Anax junius. Research has shown that if larvae are in their peak physical state, then they have a higher likelihood of emerging in the presence of their predator, as opposed to weaker larvae likely emerging in the absence of the predator. Cannibalism also poses a threat, and the stronger larvae emerge earlier when this threat is high.

Conservation and global warming
This species is at a low vulnerability in regard to conservation. However, P. longipennis and all other dragonflies are indicators of a healthy ecosystem. As wetlands and other various habitats for dragonflies decrease due to habitat destruction, so do the populations of dragonflies. Therefore, dragonflies are at the forefront of conservation movements. 

In regard to global warming, studies have shown that increasing temperature has an effect on larvae emergence time and survival. Larvae under the conditions predicted for 100 years in the future emerge significantly earlier, and their survival rate is much lower, indicating possible effects of global warming on this dragonfly.

References

External links

 Species Pachydiplax longipennis - Blue Dasher — Bug Guide https://bugguide.net/node/view/598

Libellulidae
Odonata of North America
Insects described in 1839