[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the USA

rtholomew and the Great and Holy Synod of Constantinople formally elected and ritually included Archimandrite Daniel in the Diptychs of Holy Orthodoxy as titular Bishop of Pamphilon. Bishop Daniel was consecrated as bishop in May 2008, at St. Vladimir Ukrainian Orthodox Cathedral, Parma, OH.

Schism

The act of renouncing autocephaly and entering the omophorion  of the Ecumenical Patriarchate, which left the UOC-USA with no direct tie to any of the Orthodox churches in Ukraine, led to several parishes leaving the UOC-USA to enter under the omophorion of the Kyiv Patriarchate in Ukraine, although some supporters of these parishes argue that it is they who remain in the same church and that it is the hierarchy of the UOC-USA which is now in a different church.

A lengthy lawsuit which in 1999 the UOC-USA began against one such parish, the Church of the Holy Ascension in Clifton, NJ, discouraged some other parishes from taking similar action.  Although New Jersey's Appellate Division eventually sided with the parishioners of Holy Ascension against the UOC-USA and the New Jersey Supreme Court denied certification of the issue, in 2007, the Consistory of the UOC-USA filed a fresh suit against the Church of the Holy Ascension.  After this suit was dismissed with prejudice by the Superior Court of New Jersey in June 2008, the UOC-USA filed an appeal, but on August 19, 2009, the Appellate Division affirmed the dismissal, holding "that Holy Ascension, and not the UOC-USA, has title to the property". The UOC-USA again appealed to the New Jersey Supreme Court, which, on December 9, 2009, again denied certification.

Despite the court ruling, the UOC-USA website until 2014 continued to list the Church of the Holy Ascension and several other parishes which were legally part of the UOC-KP as parishes of the UOC-USA.

Structure

 the Ukrainian Orthodox Church in the USA was divided into two eparchies (dioceses):

 Eastern Eparchy (North Carolina, Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts, Maryland, New Jersey, New York City, Eastern Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia), headed by Metropolitan Antony (New York City, New York-Washington D.C.)
 Western Eparchy (Arizona, California, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, Washington, Wisconsin, Florida, Georgia, Ohio, Upstate New York, Western Pennsylvania), headed by Archbishop Daniel (Chicago, Illinois)

In total, there are about 80 parishes and one seminary - St. Sophia Ukrainian Orthodox Theological Seminary in South Bound Brook, New Jersey. Many parishes have been closing despite moves over the past few years to conduct the liturgy in English and appoint convert priests to appeal to the masses. Besides the two hierarchs, the clergy consist of 106 priests and 15 deacons. 15 of the parishes currently have either no pastor or are served by clergy in their deanery.

See also
Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Canada
History of Christianity in Ukraine
St. Andrew Cathedral, Silver Spring
Ukrainian History and Education Center

Notes

References
 Text originally taken from Orthodoxwiki:Ukrainian Orthodox Church in the USA
 Hewlett, Dn. Edward. The Formation of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Canada
 Surrency, Archim. Serafim. The Quest for Orthodox Church Unity in America: A History of the Orthodox Church in North America in the Twentieth Century. New York: Saints Boris and Gleb Press, 1973.
 Eastern Christian Churches: The Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the US and Diaspora, by Ronald Roberson, a Roman Catholic priest and scholar
 An Outline of the History of the Metropolia Center of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the USA (official website)

External links
 official website
 old website
 Profile of the UOC-USA on the Association of Religion Data Archives website
 Article on the UOC-USA by Ronald Roberson on the CNEWA website

 
Ukrainian Orthodox church bodies
Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople
Christian organizations established in 1915
Eastern Orthodox Church bodies in North America
Ukrainian-American history
Christian denominations established in the 20th century
Eastern Orthodox organizations established in the 20th century
Members of the National Council of Churches
Ukrainian Orthodoxy in the United States