[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Josef Tal

ociety for Contemporary Music (ISCM) conferences and in other musical events and attended many professional conferences around the world. He was a member of the Berlin Academy of the Arts (Akademie der Künste), and a fellow of the Institute for Advanced Study, Berlin (Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin).

Until his sixties Tal appeared as a pianist"Music in Palestine", The Musical Times, vol. 80, no. 1153 (March 1939), p. 225 and conductor with various orchestras, but his major contribution to the music world lies in his challenging compositions and his novel use of sonority. In the 1990s Tal conducted, together with Dr Shlomo Markel,Shimoni, Uri; Markel, Shlomo; Tal, Josef: "Icon Notation for Electroacoustic and Computer Music", in: Proceedings of the 14th International Computer Music Conference, Cologne, September 20–25, 1988 pp. 430–436 a research project (Talmark) aimed at the development of a novel musical notation system in cooperation with the Technion – Israel Institute of Technology, and Volkswagen Foundation. During these years his eyesight deteriorated due to macular degeneration and it became increasingly difficult for him to continue composing. Using a computer screen to enlarge the music score, he managed to compose short musical works for few instruments, write his third autobiography, and complete his visionary analysis of future music. The complete cycle of his symphonies conducted by Israel Yinon was released on the German label CPO.

Josef Tal died in Jerusalem. He is buried in Kibbutz Ma'ale HaHamisha, near Jerusalem. Part of his archival legacy is held in the National Library of Israel in Jerusalem. Almost all of Tal's works are published by the Israel Music Institute (IMI).

 Musical style 

The characteristic features of Tal's music are broad dramatic gestures and driving bursts of energy generated, by various types of ostinato or sustained textural accumulations. Complex rhythmic patterning is typical of the widely performed Second Symphony and of a number of notable dance scores. But Tal's marked dramatic and philosophical propensities find total expression only in opera, particularly in the large-scale, 12-note opera Ashmedai...

Tal's early compositional style was a point of some controversy, due to his departure from – and criticism of – the so-called 'Mediterranean school' favoured by many Israeli composers at the time. This was an approach pioneered by Paul Ben-Haim and other composers, who set traditional Middle Eastern Jewish melodies within a European, often Impressionist, harmonic vocabulary."Between Two Cultures: A Conversation with Shulamit Ran", Malcolm Miller and Shulamit Ran, Tempo, vol. 58, no. 227 (January 2004), pp. 15–32 He was the most distinctive among the first generation of composers who principally opposed the use of folklorism and orientalism.

On the one hand, like other members of the pioneer generation of composers who emigrated to Palestine in the 1930s, Tal sought to create a new national style distinct from European (and particularly German) modernism. On the other hand, to distance himself from Ben-Haim's "Mediterranean" school he adopted a distinctly modernist style. Tal's music is not monolithic. Despite its dominant atonality, Tal's music has undergone changes and modifications over the years. These changes reflect what occurred over time in Israeli music. Most of the works which Tal wrote around 1950 are characterized by traditional components and frameworks, written in traditional techniques such as variations, and atonal musical language. In the late 'forties and early 'fifties, when the Mediterranean style was at its peak, Tal was a frequent borrower of Oriental-Jewish source material as the basis for his compositions. If we take Ben-Zion Orgad's definition as the most pertinent it would surely follow that Tal's Piano Sonata, 1st symphony, 2nd Piano Concerto and other works based on Oriental-Jewish melodies are definitely not Mediterranean.Ron, Yohanan, Josef Tal: "The Death of Moses" Requiem for Solo, Choir, Orchestra and Magnetic Tape – the text and the music
(HaArchion le-musica Israelit no. 7, 1995, pp. 14–21)Ron, Yohanan, The "Where and When" in the Compositions of Josef Tal
(HaArchion le-musica Israelit No. 9, 1997, pp. 7–16)