[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Clover Industries

Nestlé Purelife and Nestea which opens up opportunities in the sub-Saharan market.

2014 – Clover Futurelife joint venture is established to launch a functional dairy based product. Various other initiatives are currently being explored.

2019 - Clover delists from the JSE after a takeover by Milco.

Controversy 
Prior to its $354 million sale of 59.5% to Milco, a newly formed consortium of the Central Bottling Company (CBC), the deal was met with opposition by BDS, the Palestine Solidarity Alliance, Palestine Solidarity Campaign and the South African Jews for a Free Palestine. BDS SA spokesman Tisetso Magama said that CBC “has operations in Israel’s illegal settlements – both in the occupied Palestinian West Bank and in the occupied Syrian Golan Heights,” adding that “CBC and its subsidiaries own a regional distribution centre in the illegal Israeli Atarot settlement industrial zone, a vineyard near Mount Shifon in the occupied Golan Heights and a dairy farm, as well as offices in the illegal Israeli settlement of Shadmot Mehola in the Jordan Valley – all in violation of international law.”

Brimstone Investments, one of the initial consortium members of the deal, pulled out.

Several trade unions in South Africa were against the approval of the deal: In a joint statement, trade unions such as the General Industries Workers Union of South Africa and Food and Allied Workers Union representing workers at Clover and its subsidiaries, together with their union federation, South African Federation of Trade Unions and Palestinian solidarity organizations in South Africa, “condemned the recent judgment by the Competition Tribunal of South Africa on the takeover of Clover by Israeli-led company, Milco SA.” They cited three main objections to the deal, claiming that “the takeover will have negative consequences for South African workers who will face job losses in the context of an already-struggling economy,” as well as “manipulative, unethical and anti-competitive practices by... the CBC... against which there are adverse findings in Israel,” and claims that the “CBC violation of international law, including UN resolutions and Geneva Conventions and the violation of human rights.”

Business 
Today, Clover is a branded consumer goods and products group operating in South Africa and other selected African countries in:

• The production of dairy and non-alcoholic beverages;

• The distribution of chilled and ambient consumer products; and

• The sales and merchandising of fast-moving consumer goods

Clover was converted from a co-operative society into a public company in 2003.

Clover implemented a capital restructuring on 31 May 2010, which was a milestone in its corporate development and resulted in both economic benefits and voting control vesting in the ordinary shares. In addition, the delinking of the ordinary shares from the milk delivery agreements enabled persons other than dairy producers to acquire ordinary shares, facilitating its ability to raise equity capital. Capital scarcity has historically been a key constraint for Clover's growth and development.

References 

Companies based in Johannesburg
Dairy products companies of South Africa
South African brands
Groupe Danone brands