[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# Country music

homogenization of music curation and metadata within larger genres such as country music. Musicians and songs from minority heritage styles, such as Appalachian, Cajun, New Mexico, and Tejano music, underperform on these platforms due to underrepresentation and miscategorization of these subgenres.

Race issue in modern country music 
The Country Music Association has awarded the New Artist award to a black American only twice in 63 years, and never to a Hispanic musician. The broader modern Nashville-based Country music industry has underrepresented significant black and Latino contributions within Country music, including popular subgenres such as Cajun, Creole, Tejano, and New Mexico music. A 2021 CNN article states, "Some in country music have signaled that they are no longer content to be associated with a painful history of racism."

Black country-music artist Mickey Guyton had been included among the nominees for the 2021 award, effectively creating a litmus-test for the genre. Guyton has expressed bewilderment that, despite substantial coverage by online platforms like Spotify and Apple Music, her music, like that of Valerie June, another black musician who embraces aspects of country in her Appalachian- and Gospel-tinged work and who has been embraced by international music audiences, is still effectively ignored by American broadcast country-music radio. Guyton's 2021 album Remember Her Name in part references the case of black health-care professional Breonna Taylor, who was killed in her home by police.

In 2023, "Try That in a Small Town" by Jason Aldean became the subject of widespread controversy and media attention following the release of its music video. Tennessee state representative Justin Jones referred to the song as a "heinous vile racist song" which attempts to normalize "racist, violence, vigilantism and white nationalism". Others thought the lyrics were supportive of lynchings and sundown towns. Amanda Marie Martinez of NPR wrote that the song "builds on a lineage of anti-city songs in country music that place the rural and urban along not only a moral versus immoral binary, but an implicitly racialized one as well...selective availability of home loans in suburbs and racially restrictive housing covenants in cities furthered white flight, making cities synonymous with non-whiteness." She concluded by stating that such songs are "why country music continues to be a frightening space for marginalized communities".

See also

 American Country Countdown Awards
 Canadian Country Music Association
 CMT Music Awards
 Country (identity)
 Country and Irish
 Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum
 Country-western dance
 Culture of the Southern United States
 Music genre
 List of country music performers
 List of RPM number-one country singles
 Music of the United States
 Pop music
 Western Music Association
 2021 in country music

References

Further reading

 
 
 
 

 
 Thomas S. Johnson (1981) "That Ain't Country: The Distinctiveness of Commercial Western Music" JEMF Quarterly. Vol. 17, No. 62. Summer, 1981. pp 75–84.
 
 
 Bill Legere (1977). Record Collectors Guide of Country LPs. Limited ed. Mississauga, Ont.: W.J. Legere. 269, 25, 29, 2 p., thrice perforated and looseleaf. Without ISBN
 Bill Legere ([1977]). E[lectrical] T[anscription]s: Transcription Library of Bill Legere. Mississauga, Ont.: B. Legere. 3 vols., each of which is thrice perforated and looseleaf. N.B.: Vol. 1–2, Country Artists—vol. 2, Pop Artists. Without ISBN
 
 
 Diane Pecknold (ed.) Hidden in the Mix: The African American Presence in Country Music. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2013.

External links

 The Country Music Association – Nashville, Tennessee(CMA)
 Western Music Association (WMA) 
 Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum – Nashville, Tennessee
 Grand Ole Opry – Nashville, Tennessee
 Irish country music 
 Country Music Festivals Ontario Website
 Nashville Songwriters Hall of Fame Foundation
 TIME Archive of country music's progression
 Xroad.virginia.edu, alt country from American Studies at the University of Virginia
 Largest collection of online Country music radio stations
 Kingwood Kowboy's History Of Country Music
 A Treasure Trove for Country Music Collectors. The British Archive of Country Music Records, BACM, is dedicated to the preservation of traditional country music

2021
1920s in music
1930s in music
1940s in music
1950s in music
1960s in music
1970s in music
1980s in music
1990s in music
2000s in music
2010s in music
2020s in music
American styles of music
Culture of the Southern United States
Radio formats