[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dragon Flyz

amongst the four. Summit is known for his various witty remarks, quick anger, and preference for physical strength in trouble. His name means "the highest point of a mountain".

Apex
Callsign: Dragonator Three
Hair Colour: Orange
Armor Color: Silver
Dragon Steed: Blazewind, called "Blaze" for short

Apex is the third-oldest sibling, and the only female. She prefers negotiation to conflict, and is primarily known for her telepathic abilities by which she can communicate with dragons, and even partially manipulate half-dragons, such as Dramen, into doing her bidding. When using her powers, her eyes, and those of her subject, glow a silvery colour. Her name means "the uppermost tip of a triangle".

Peak
Callsign: Dragonator Four
Hair Colour: Blond
Armor Color: Orange/Purple
Dragon Steed: Wingstorm, called "Storm" for short

Peak is the youngest, and the most reckless, of the siblings.  He enjoys stunt-flying on dragon-back, which lands him in trouble, and is quite egoistical and mischievous. His name indicates "the top", as of a mountain or hill.

Amod
Callsign: Dragonator Five
Hair Colour: Blonde
Armor Color: Brown
Dragon Steed: Titan

Amod is another member of the Dragon Flyz, and a close friend of Peak's. He is skilled in battle, but initially disrespectful to dragons until convinced to behave otherwise.

Zarkan
Callsign: Dragonator Six
Hair Colour: Brown
Armor Color: Black
Dragon Steed: Thunder

Zarkan is a soldier of the Dragon Flyz, and loyal to the leading characters.

Nora
Callsign: Dragonator Nine
Hair Colour: Orange
Armor Color: Light Blue
Dragon Steed: Unnamed

Nora is the second female Dragonator in Airlandis, and the object of Peak's romantic interest. She fights alongside the other Dragonators with her own Dragon.

Aaron
Hair Colour: White
Armor Colour: Red

Aaron is the father of the four protagonists, and frequently acts as their advisor. He cannot use his legs and therefore is unable to walk, and instead hovers above the floor. This levitation is implied to be controlled by his staff, which carries an Amber crystal. He is the strongest advocate, on Airlandis' ruling council, for the search for a terrestrial refuge.

Orac
Orac is an engineer who maintains Airlandis' power generator. Grumpy in disposition, he is always seen wearing his uniform and gloves.

Councillor Joshua
A ranking member of Airlandis' governing parliament, wherein he often takes opposition to Aaron's position. Although his intentions are for the good of the populace, his impatience ultimately leads him to place Summit in prison, permitting Dreadwing control of the city. He is sometimes considered analogous to the Biblical Joshua.

Mutants

Dreadwing
Skin Colour: Red
Dragon Steed: Blackheart

Dreadwing is the chief antagonist of the story, established in a mechanized cave complex known as "Warnado" (possibly a portmanteau of the English "war" and "tornado"). He appears akin to the Biblical Satan in his villainous character, gargoyle-like appearance, and inhospitable living environment. Supporting this, he is once called a 'Fallen Angel', and once misquotes Dante Alighieri's introduction to Hell: 'Abandon all hope, ye who enter here'.

Nocturna
Skin Colour: Cyan
Dragon Steed: Unnamed

Nocturna is Dreadwing's second-in-command; her defining trait is service to Dreadwing in return for a domain of her own. When Dreadwing offers her the Oasis, in exchange for her continued loyalty, she accepts and is angered when Dreadwing destroys it.  Her Dragon is unnamed, but resembles her in colour, and bears a crest similar to that on Nocturna's head. Seems to have a bit of a crush on Z'neth, to the point where she will let them go or even side with them on rare occasion.

Fryte
Skin Colour: brown
Dragon Steed: Skunk

Fryte is a hunchbacked servant of Dreadwing, and unquestioningly loyal to his master. As with Nocturna, his Dragon mount bears resemblance to its rider.

Gangryn
A mutant scientist who serves Dreadwing. He is ambitious, but aged and bent, and will quickly change allegiances for his own sake.

The Gremwings
Gremwings (a portmanteau of "gremlin" and "wings") are bipedal, insect-like creatures known for their definitive screeching and disproportionately large mouths, and are distinguished by an impressive physical strength. They serve Dreadwing in vast hordes. Variations of this character include a monocular, batlike species which serves Dreadwing as a collector of information, and a similar species which feed on blood.

The Dramen
Skin Colour: Purple/Grey
Dragon Steed: Unnamed

The Dramen (portmanteau of "dragon" and "men") are large, gargoyle-like humanoids that 'sprout' wings from their bodies on demand.  Dreadwing's Dramen are sometimes seen supporting Dreadwing and his lieutenants on dragon-back.

Dram
Callsign: None
Skin Colour: Orange/Brown
Armor Color: Dark Brown
Dragon Steed: Titan