[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Growth of the Soil

as this had never crossed his mind. Luckily for him, the cost was mild thanks to Lensmand Geissler's generosity. Isak was a pioneer of the soil, he started with nothing and built a great farm out of it. The theme of hard work yielding results was evident throughout the book with Isak as an example.

Style
The novel is written in the style of Norwegian new realism, a literary movement which was used in Hamsun's later novels. This style was common during the first half of the 20th century in Norwegian literature. Hamsun utilized techniques fairly new to the time such as stream of consciousness or interior monologue.

Reception
Growth of the Soil is regarded as a historical classic. It has been acclaimed by many and won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1920. Hamsun's support of the German occupation of Norway has drawn a lot controversy and many refuse to acknowledge his success as a writer in light of that. William Worster, in an afterword to his 1920 translation of Growth of the Soil, describes the novel as follows:

Film adaptation
Growth of the Soil is a 1921 Norwegian silent film based on Hamsun's Growth of the Soil by the Norrøna Film company with an orchestral accompaniment composed by Leif Halvorsen. It was directed by Gunnar Sommerfeldt who also wrote the script and played the role of Lensmand Geissler. The original film was 107 minutes long and cost about 240,000 kroner to make, a very considerable sum of money at the time. It was filmed at Rana, Norway. The film cast stars Amund Rydland as Isak, Karen Poulsen as Inger, and Ragna Wettergreen as Oline (Inger's relative). The chief photographer was George Schnéevoigt.

Nobel Prize
The novel Growth of the Soil was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1920. This is Hamsun's speech at the Nobel Banquet at Grand Hôtel, Stockholm, December 10, 1920 translated to English.

Notes

References

External links

 
 Growth of the Soil (1921) Book I, Book II at the Internet Archive
  
 

1917 Norwegian novels
Novels by Knut Hamsun
Novels set in Norway
Norwegian novels adapted into films
Nobel Prize in Literature