[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yerevan Metro

The Karen Demirchyan Yerevan Subway (, Karen Demirchyani anvan Yerevani metropoliten; since December 1999), colloquially known as the Yerevan Metro (), is a rapid transit system that serves the capital of Armenia, Yerevan. Opened on 7 March 1981, it was the eighth metro system in the former Soviet Union. Owned by the government, it is operated by the Karen Demirchyan Yerevan Subway CJSC of the Ministry of Transport and Communication.

Unlike most former Soviet rapid transit systems, its stations are not very deep: there are two stations above ground, one sub-surface, and the remaining stations are considered deep-level. However, these stations are quite shallow, averaging a depth of only  below the surface. Only three stations are deeper than : Marshal Baghramyan (approximately ), Barekamutyun (approximately ) and Yeritasardakan (approximately ). Stations are intricately decorated with national motifs. The metro runs along  of track, and currently serves ten active stations.

History

Yerevan, the capital of Armenia, experienced substantial growth during the postwar period when it was the capital of the Armenian SSR. Due to the city's very uneven landscape, only an underground system could meet all of the criteria to efficiently move large numbers of people around the city. The first plans for a rapid transit system began to be formed in the late 1960s, under the auspices of Anton Kochinyan, then the first secretary of the Communist Party of Armenia. Initially, this was centred on a rapid tram system, rather than a full underground metro system. During this time, the Soviet City Engineering Planning Department clearly stated that a metro system would only be awarded to cities with more than a population of one million, which Yerevan lacked at the start of construction (1972). Nevertheless, all of the tunnels in which the tram lines were to be installed were built to a design that would have allowed a potential conversion into a full underground metro system.

By the end of 1978 over  of tunnels were already bored through, when the plans were redesigned so that the system would be opened as a full underground metro (although to avoid extra bureaucratic measures the system continued to be officially called a "rapid tram" right up until its opening).

On 7 March 1981, the system was opened, becoming the eighth Soviet metro system, with the first four-station stage of . Since then, the system has grown to a , ten-station network.

The engineering work was of such high quality that during the 1988 Armenian earthquake the metro managed to withstand the earthquake which paralyzed the whole republic and continued to operate the next day with only minor damage. However, this did put an end to most of the extension projects as finances were diverted to the reconstruction of the destroyed infrastructure elsewhere in Yerevan and Armenia.

On 28 December 1999, the metro was named after Karen Demirchyan, the man who was responsible for changing the status of the rapid tram system into becoming a metro system, after he was killed two months earlier in a terrorist attack on the Armenian parliament.

Timeline

Name changes

Following the dissolution of the USSR and the independence of Armenia, three stations saw their names changed in 1992. A fourth station had been renamed ten years before, to honour Ivan Khristoforovich Bagramyan, a Soviet military commander of Armenian origin, after his death.

Facts and numbers

Today the metro operates as a single line, with a separate shuttle service on the Shengavit-Charbakh branch, and covers , with trains running every five minutes from 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. It served about 60,000 passengers per day before a fare increase, In 2012, 14.9 million passengers rode the metro. but ridership fell by almost 20% to 50,000 passengers per day after the doubling of the fare. The system employs about 1,200 workers. A peculiar feature of the metro is that the digital timers/clocks count up, i.e. they reset to "00:00" when a train departs, and keep counting up until the next train leaves. Passengers must be aware that trains, in general, arrive/depart every 5 minutes or so.

Due to Yerevan's uneven landscape, the metro in some cases goes above ground. Of the ten stations; seven are underground of which one is a single-vault shallow level, and the rest are pylon deep-level stations. Continuing the tradition of all ex-Soviet underground systems, most of the stations are exquisitely decorated, often blending Armenian national motifs with late-Soviet architecture.