[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Testament of Abraham

also convinces Death to describe the reasons behind his monstrous form.  There is no analogue to this scene in the short recension.
 Chapter 20 (long recension)/Chapter 14:6-7 (short recension): Death finally kills Abraham.  In the short recension, this is described as "in a dream".  In the long recension, Death entreats Abraham to go with him now, but Abraham claims to be feeling weak in order to convince Death to leave for a time.  In response, Death convinces Abraham to kiss his hand so that Abraham will feel better.  In fact, this kiss kills Abraham.  Abraham's body is buried, and Abraham's soul is taken up to heaven.

Significance
When viewed as a religious text, the Testament of Abraham gives a unique message. Beyond the presence of angels and God and Death, the lesson demonstrated is simply being a good person, performing good acts, and avoiding bad ones. In the scenes of judgment, there is no distinction made between whether people are Jewish or Gentile, only whether they have performed good deeds or bad. The reader is then left with an idea of universally fair treatment, not influenced by lineage or any other traits, when it comes to judgment, where a person whose sins outweigh their good deeds will be sentenced to eternal punishment, while one whose good deeds outweigh their sins will move on to paradise.

Humor
While this text does have its theological significance, it can also be simply viewed as a story meant to entertain. Throughout the entire text, the ever pious Abraham attempts to dodge and avoid God's will; rather than this portrayal painting Abraham in a non-pious light, Abraham instead recognizes how good and devout he has been throughout his entire life, and uses that to his advantage. He is so good at avoiding God's decree that the only way he finally has his soul taken away is when Death tricks him. Another humorous character is the Archangel Michael. God's "Commander-in-Chief" is an angel who would seem to be able to make decisions on his own and handle the refusals of Abraham, but he cannot. Every time that Abraham does something that Michael does not expect, he comes up with some reason to excuse himself then rushes up to heaven to consult God and find out what he is to do with stubborn Abraham.

 See also 

 Testaments of the Three Patriarchs

Notes

Resources
 Allison, Dale C., Testament of Abraham, (Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 2003). .
 Charlesworth, James H., The Old Testament Pseudepigrapha: Apocalyptic Literature and Testaments, Volume 1, (New Haven, Connecticut: Yale University Press, 1983), 869–902. .
 Delcor, Matthias, Le Testament d'Abraham: Introduction, traduction du texte grec et commentaire de la recension grecque longue, (Leiden: Brill, 1973).
 Gruen, Erich S., Diaspora: Jews amidst Greeks and Romans, (Cambridge, Massachusetts:  Harvard University Press, 2002). .
 Ludlow, Jared W., Abraham Meets Death: Narrative Humor in the Testament of Abraham, Journal for the Study of the Pseudepigrapha Supplement Series 41 (London: Sheffield Academic Press, 2002). .
 Nickelsburg, Jr., George W.E., "Studies on the Testament of Abraham"  (Missoula: Scholar's Press, 1976).
 Rosso, L., Testamento di Abramo in ed. P.Sacchi Apocrifi dell'Antico Testamento Vol 4  (2000).
 Sanders, E. P., Testament of Abraham, a new Translation and Introduction in ed. James Charlesworth The Old Testament Pseudepigrapha, Vol 1  (1983) p. 871-902
 Sparks, H. F. D., The Apocryphal Old Testament  (1984).
 Stone, Michael E., The Testament of Abraham'', (Missoula: Scholar's Press, 1972).

External links
Text of Testament of Abraham
Text of Testament of Abraham
Jewish Encyclopedia 1906
Testament of Abraham page on EarlyJewishWritings.com

1st-century books
2nd-century books
Old Testament pseudepigrapha
Abraham
Jewish apocrypha
Apocalyptic literature
Texts in Koine Greek
Roman Egypt