[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# University Degree Program

University Degree Program (UDP) is or was an unaccredited consortium of diploma mills run by Americans Jason and Caroline Abraham (of Brooklyn, New York; also known by their Hebrew names Yaakov and Chaya Rochel) beginning in the 1990s. In 2004, The Chronicle of Higher Education called UDP the "granddaddy" of diploma mill operations.

Operations

The Chronicle of Higher Education reported that the University Degree Program recruited "students" over the telephone from call centers in Romania (where the call center also sold fake international driver's licenses) and Israel. Telephone salespeople, who were paid on commission and received performance-based bonuses, could offer degrees in any field requested. The Abrahams created websites for a diverse variety of bogus institutions whose names were printed on diplomas. Customers were not told which of these "universities" would issue their degrees. According to the Chronicle, UDP sent a letter to customers stating: "The policy of not disclosing the name of the University protects you against unscrupulous individuals who do not approve of self-study and lifestyle improvement." The letter also said that this was done to avoid "bad publicity".

The operation was estimated to have sold more than 30,000 "degrees" and received proceeds totaling $50 million to $100 million or more.

Early in 2003 the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and British government authorities took action against UDP and related businesses, including the illegal sale of fake international driver's licenses. The FTC filed a preliminary injunction in January 2003 and amended complaints in February and May 2003. In May the FTC and Israeli government authorities shut down the call center operation in the Mea Shearim section of Jerusalem. The FTC complaint cited "deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce". The Abrahams "turned over $100,000 in profits" and promised to stop selling degrees.

In 2004, however, the Chronicle reported that email advertising "remarkably similar" to UDP's and phone solicitations using a "nearly identical" script had continued after that agreement, leading observers to think that the UDP or the Abrahams were still operating diploma mills. The Oregon Office of Degree Authorization observed that some websites that appeared to be University Degree Program "products (or clones)" remained in operation.

In 2009, it was listed as a diploma mill by the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.

Entities associated with UDP

Institutions
The following are institutions connected to UDP.
 Ashford University (London) (not to be confused with Ashford University of Iowa)
 Brentwick University
 Glencullen University
 Harrington University
 Hartford University not to be confused with the University of Hartford in Connecticut. As of 2012, the Oregon Office of Degree Authorization stated that organizations using the "Hartford University" name were operating from the South Pacific island of Vanuatu and Washington, D.C.
 Hartley University
 Kingsfield University
 Landford University
 Northfield University
 Oaklands University
 Parkhurst University
 Parkwood University
 Shaftesbury University
 Shelbourne University
 Shepperton University
 Stafford University
 Summerset University
 Thornewood University
 University of Bedford
 University of Devonshire
 University of Dorchester
 University of Dunham
 University of Hampshire
 University of Palmers Green
 University of San Moritz
 University of Wexford
 Westbourne University
 Westhampton University

Accreditors
The following are unrecognized accreditation associations of higher learning connected to UDP.
Distance Learning Council of Europe (DLCE: accrediting)
European Council for Distance & Open Learning (ECDOL: accrediting)
European Committee for Home and Online Education (ECHOE: accrediting))

Websites shut down by the FTC
The following are websites used by the UDP that were closed by the Federal Trade Commission.
www.ashforduniversity.org (domain for Ashford University)
www.brentwickuniversity.org (domain for Brentwick University)
www.henryheston.com.cnchost.com (domain containing sites for the University of Devonshire, Glencullen University, Harrington University, and Shelbourne University)
www.kingsfielduniversity.org (domain for Kingsfield University)
www.landforduniversity.org (domain for Landford University)
www.parkwooduniversity.org (domain for Parkwood University)
www.thornewooduniversity.org (domain for Thornewood University)
www.universityofwexford.org (domain for the University of Wexford)
www.westbourneuniversity.org (domain for Westbourne University)