[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# 2007 New Year Honours

d Sport. 
Ms Sarah Ann Wood, lately Director of Policy, Local Government Association. For services to Local Government.
Guy Anthony Woolfenden, Composer and Conductor. For services to Music.
Ian Harold Woosnam, M.B.E., Golfer. For services to Sport.
Christopher Worthy, Grade B2, Ministry of Defence.

Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE)
Colin Festus Adams, Senior Executive Officer, Human Resources Equality and Diversity Team, Department for Education and Skills.
Peter Henry Dredge Ainsworth. For services to the Scouts in Pinner, Middlesex.
Colin Walter Aitken, Inspector, Ministry of Defence Police.
James Noel Carrol Alder, Member, Morpeth Harriers Athletics Club. For services to Sport in the North East. 
Ms Dounne Alexander, Founder, Gramma's Herbal Foods. For services to the Food Industry.
Euan Nicholas Allen. For services to the Suffolk Cathedral Millennium Project.
Janet, Mrs. Allen. For services to the community in Scalford, Leicestershire.
Thelma, Mrs. Allen, J.P., Employer Compliance Officer, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Raja Mohammed Amin, J.P., Chair, Balsall Heath Streetwatch. For services to the community in Birmingham.
Miss Cheryl Anderson, Head of Administration, School of Engineering, Cranfield University. For services to Higher Education. 
Ronald Arkley Anderson. For services to NHS Catering and to the community in Walsall, West Midlands. 
William Ian Appleby. For services to Young People in Birmingham.
David Iain Armstrong, Meteor Multinational Project Director, MBDA. For services to the Defence Industry.
Margaret Bannerman, Mrs. Arnold. For services to the Soldiers', Sailors' and Airmen's Families Association in Moray, Nairn and Banffshire. 
Linda, Mrs. Arrowsmith, Ministerial Briefing Manager, Department of Health.
Malcolm Ashbrook, Risk Manager, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Mohammad Aslam. For services to the community in Croydon.
Dr. Kanyalal Aswani, General Medical Practitioner, Waltham Forest. For services to Healthcare.
The Reverend Canon Patricia Anne Atkinson. For services to Street Children in South India.
Valerie Ann, Mrs. Attenborough, J.P. For services to the community in Norfolk.
Richard Avard, lately Mapping and Charting Officer, Highways Agency, Department for Transport.
Linda, Mrs. Ayre, Registered Manager, Tow Law Children's Home, Durham. For services to Children.
Paul Victor Bache. For services to the Meat Industry. 
John Sinclair Bailey, T.D. For services to the Church of England in Worcester.
Miss Eileen Winifred Bairstow. For services to the Pembrokeshire Counselling Service.
Maureen, Mrs. Baker, Headteacher, Children's House Nursery School, Edinburgh. For services to Early Years Education.
Harold Bales, Lecturer, Gas Industry Training, New College, Nottingham. For services to Further Education and to Skills Training.
Peter Brian Barlow, lately Principal Assistant, Zoology Department, University of Cambridge. For services to Higher Education.
John Edward Barrett, lately Tennis Commentator, BBC. For services to Sports Broadcasting.
Brian Barron, BBC Foreign Correspondent. For services to Broadcasting.
Lieutenant Colonel Francis Charles Batten, D.L. For services to the Soldiers', Sailors' and Airmen's Families Association in Dyfed.
Peter Beal, lately Northern Editor, Press Association. For services to Journalism.
Celia, Mrs. Beaumont. For services to Humberside Probation Service and to the Scout Association. 
Barbara Mary, Mrs. Bell, lately Chair of Governors, Lady Adrian Special School, Cambridge. For services to Special Needs Education.
George Bell, lately Milkman, Wiseman's Dairy. For services to the community in Gullane, East Lothian. 
Helen, Mrs. Bell. For charitable services in Scotland. 
Joseph Donald Benoist, lately Section Manager, En-Route Air Space, Civil Aviation Authority. For services to Civil Aviation.
Anthony John Gilbert Berry, J.P., Chair and Co-Founder, North Staffordshire Heart Committee. For services to the community in North Staffordshire.
Dr. Binoy Bhattacharyya, Consultant, West Middlesex Hospital. For services to Medicine.
Marion, Mrs. Birch. For charitable services to Bradford Hospitals.
Rosalind, Mrs. Birchall. For services to the British Red Cross Society in Scotland.
Miss Rosemary Bird. For services providing rural experience on Dartmoor and in the South West for Inner City Young People.
Edna May, Mrs. Bishop. For services to the Women's Royal Voluntary Service in Plymouth.
Alan David Blair, Chief Executive, Wessex Heartbeat Charity. For charitable services in Hampshire.
Marjorie Netta, Mrs. Blamey, Botanical Illustrator. For services to Art.
Ms Susan Margaret Blane, Costume and Set Designer. For services to Drama.
Dr. John Marcus Blatchly, former President, Suffolk Institute of Archaeology and History. For services to Heritage.
Sandra, Mrs. Blockley, Founder, Lorraine Blockley Cancer Fund. For charitable services.
David Philip Boulter, Consultant, Driver Safety Training. For services to Public Transport.
Judith Margaret, Mrs. Bousfield. F