[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Derick Brassard

ke Brassard. A representative from Red Bull released a statement saying that they would be filing a breach of contract notification with the International Ice Hockey Federation, while Brassard's agent told reporters that there was "no more unprofessional organization in all of Europe" than Salzburg.

The NHL lockout came to an end on January 5, 2013, and Brassard departed for Columbus shortly after the announcement was made. In their first game of the truncated season, Brassard scored the game-winning goal in the sixth round of a shootout victory over the Nashville Predators, the first time that Columbus had taken the first game of a season since 2009. The Blue Jackets' season, however, was largely hindered by a number of injuries, and Brassard was one of many skaters to miss time around the beginning of March after suffering an upper-body injury in a game against the Dallas Stars. In 34 games with Columbus that season, Brassard scored seven goals and 11 assists.

New York Rangers (2013–2016) 
One of the largest trading deadline deals of the 2012–13 season occurred on April 3, 2013, when the New York Rangers traded Marian Gaborik, one of their top goal scorers, and two prospect players to the Blue Jackets in exchange for Brassard, Derek Dorsett, John Moore, and a sixth-round pick in the 2014 NHL Entry Draft. Brassard arrived at Madison Square Garden about 15 minutes before pregame warmups that night, and proceeded to contribute a goal and three assists in the Rangers' 6–1 rout of the Pittsburgh Penguins. He recorded 11 points in the last 13 regular season games of the lockout-truncated season before joining the Rangers for the 2013 Stanley Cup playoffs. It was Brassard's first postseason appearance, as he was still recovering from his shoulder injury when Columbus reached the playoffs in 2009. He was one of the most valuable offensive players in the Rangers' playoff run, with three points in Game 3 of New York's first-round series against the Washington Capitals, six points through his first five postseason games, and 12 points through his entire 12-game playoff run. The Rangers were eliminated from the playoffs by the Boston Bruins in the second round.

The Rangers made a number of changes to their starting line-up for the 2013–14 season, with Brassard centering a second line that also featured Benoit Pouliot and Mats Zuccarello. Brassard also reconciled with Arniel before the season began, as his former Columbus coach took an assistant coaching position on the Rangers. Brassard began the season in a slump, and after being criticized by coach Alain Vigneault for his lack of production, he scored his first goal of the year on October 26, a game-winning breakaway past Jimmy Howard of the Detroit Red Wings with 12.6 seconds remaining in overtime. After missing time in December with a bruised coccyx, Brassard recorded his 200th NHL point with an assist against the Tampa Bay Lightning on December 29. Brassard struggled with the frequent line adjustments Vigneault made through the first half of the season, but after finding stable chemistry with Benoit Pouliot and Mats Zuccarello, he improved, scoring nine points in 11 games by mid-January. After finishing the regular season with 18 goals and 45 points, Brassard left practice before the first game of the 2014 Stanley Cup playoffs with a lower back injury. He missed the first game of the Rangers' opening-round playoff series against the Philadelphia Flyers but returned for game two, scoring four goals and seven points in 14 playoff games, including two game-winning goals against the Pittsburgh Penguins. Brassard was injured again in the first game of the Eastern Conference finals when he was shouldered by Montreal Canadiens' skater Mike Weaver. Brassard returned for game four, scoring a goal in the Rangers' 3–2 victory. He finished the Rangers' postseason run with six goals and 12 points in 23 playoff games before the Los Angeles Kings defeated New York in the 2014 Stanley Cup Finals.