[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Foreign relations of Macau

Under the Basic Law, Macau's diplomatic relations and defence are the responsibility of the central government of China. Except diplomatic relations and defence, nonetheless, Macau has retained considerable autonomy in all aspects, including economic and commercial relations, customs control.

As a separate customs territory, Macau plays an active role in international organizations and conferences such as World Trade Organization (WTO) and the Asia/Pacific Group on Money Laundering (APG), etc in its own right under the name of Macau, China.

As of January 27, 2020, according to Directorate of Identification Services Official webpage, there are 144 countries or regions that implement visa-free policies for residents holding Macau passports.

Macau office

The Macau government has maintained Macau Economic and Trade Representative Offices in Portugal, Belgium and 
Switzerland etc.

Macao Economic and Cultural Representative Office/Macao Government Tourism Office (Overseas)

The Macao Economic and Trade Representative Office is a government department of Macao. It is responsible for promoting the work of representing the interests of all parties in Macao. It is a representative department and enjoys administrative autonomy.
The office is responsible for assisting the Chief Executive in the work of economic and trade relations and cooperation between Macao and local and related institutions: 
 Strive to make the relationship between Macau and the local area closer;
 Committed to showing Macau to the locals in the economic and trade field;
 Ensure to safeguard Macao's local interests and promote certain economic relations between Macao and the local area;
 Follow up the local decision-making process involving Macau's interests in all aspects;
 Collect, process and provide to the Chief Executive all information about community institutions that is meaningful to Macau;
 Follow up the management of trade agreements and conventions between the local and Macau; 
 Follow up the development of cooperation between Macao and the local area in accordance with the provisions of the existing agreements, and participate in the formulation and preparation of projects related to these agreements;
 In accordance with the general guidelines set by the Chief Executive for him, to ensure that the local area and its institutions safeguard other interests of Macao, including the interests of tourism.

In countries or territories where no MOETO is present, diplomatic missions of China have the duty to represent Macau's interests. Visa applications at these missions are, nevertheless, sent to and processed by the Immigration Department of Macau.

International agreements
According to the Basic Law, Macao may individually sign bilateral agreements with relevant countries and regions in appropriate fields such as economy, trade, finance, shipping, communications, tourism, culture, science and technology, and sports, in the name of "Macao, China".

Negotiation
By the end of 2018, Macau has negotiated civil aviation agreements with 46 countries and regions including the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom.  Macau negotiates judicial assistance agreements with 11 countries and regions including Portugal and East Timor. 
Macau negotiates investment protection agreements with three countries and regions including Portugal and the Netherlands.
Macau negotiates tax information exchange or double taxation agreements with 42 countries including the United Kingdom and Japan.

Bilateral Investment Treaty

Consumer Protection Agreement

Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement

Tax Information Exchange Agreement

Agreement on avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion

Civil Aviation Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

According to the Chief Executive’s policy address, in order to protect the interests of investors in Macau. In the future, the SAR government will actively strive to sign taxation agreements with countries along the One Belt One Road and Portuguese-speaking countries.

Trade Agreement
 ｜European Economic Community Agreement for trade and cooperation between the European Economic Community and Macao  (June 1992)
 (CEPA) (June 2003)
  (October 2017)

International organizations 

Note

 Macau participates in 19 intergovernmental international organizations with countries as participating units.
 Macau participates in 30 intergovernmental international organizations that do not use countries as their participating units.

Macao participates in the online meeting of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs in 2021

Overseas visits made by senior officials