[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Parsons Corporation

ening Systems Project at Los Angeles International Airport. Parsons was the construction manager for this project. Parsons was also a part of the terminals update in 2006. The company also played a role in post 9/11 Pentagon rebuilding efforts, providing program and construction management services.

In 2011, in a joint-venture, Parsons completed construction on the John James Audubon Bridge in Mississippi. The John James Audubon Bridge is the longest cable-stayed bridge in the Western Hemisphere and is also the first Design-Build project undertaken by the Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development. On November 8, 2012, the bridge was awarded the Design-Build Institute of America (DBIA) 2012 Design Excellence Award.

In 2013, Parsons designed and managed construction for the earthworks, roads and water and wastewater in Saadiyat Island, Abu Dhabi, UAE.

In October 2014, Parsons was awarded a contract by Tecon Investments to oversee major elements of the Dubai Design District (D3).

In 2016, construction was completed for the World Trade Center Port Authority Trans-Hudson Transportation Hub (PATH). Parsons was responsible for the infrastructure group design of the project, as well as supervising the civil, geo-technical and environmental design of the project. It also oversees the installation of the project’s communication and safety systems.

On June 12, 2017, Parsons accepted the award for the Operational Efficiency Project of the Year from the California Transportation Foundation (CTF) for their Intelligent Transportation System work on the I-80 Smart Corridor Project.

In 2017, Parsons worked with Abu Dhabi Airports Company as program manager for the Abu Dhabi International Airport expansion.

2020s

In 2021, Parsons was awarded a seven year contract from the Missile Defense Agency to continue work on the TEAMs Next contract to support the development of defense systems.

In 2023, Parsons was confirmed as the delivery partner for The Line at NEOM, a 170 km linear city being built in Saudi Arabia.

On July 7, 2023, U.S. officials announced that the final munition in the nation's obsolete stockpile of chemical weapons at the Blue Grass Chemical Agent Plant has been safely destroyed by Bechtel National, Inc. and Parsons. The team used neutralization and explosive destruction to eliminate the munition.

Signature projects
Notable Parsons projects include:

 Titan and Minuteman ICBM bases, sites and silos (along with another California-based contractor—Daniel, Mann, Johnson & Mendenhall)
 Pershing MRBM miss-distance indicators
 Tacoma Narrows Bridge (1950)
 Work on Brooklyn Bridge
 World Trade Center Port Authority Trans-Hudson Transportation Hub
 Salt Waste Processing Facility

Corporate Governance

Board of Directors 
The board of directors consists of 11 members. As of June 2023, members include:

 Carey Smith: Chairwoman, President, And Chief Executive Officer
 George Ball, Former Chief Financial Officer Of Parsons Corporation
 Mark K. Holdsworth, Founder And Managing Partner Of The Holdsworth Group
 Steven F. Leer, Former Executive Chairman Of The Board Of Directors Of Arch Coal, Inc.
 Ellen Lord, Former Under Secretary Of Defense For Acquisition And Sustainment For The U.S. Department Of Defense
 Letitia A. Long, Former Director Of The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA)
 Darren W. McDew, General USAF (ret), Retired U.S. Air Force General
 Harry T. McMahon, Former Executive Vice Chairman Of Bank of America Merrill Lynch
 M. Christian Mitchell, Former National Managing Partner Of Deloitte
 Suzanne M. “Zan” Vautrinot, Major General USAF (ret), President Of Kilovolt Consulting, Inc.
 David C. Wajsgras, Former President Of The Intelligence, Information And Services (IIS) Business (Raytheon)

Acquisitions

References

External links
 "Crucial Iraq police academy 'a disaster'", The Seattle Times, September 28, 2006

Companies based in Fairfax County, Virginia
Construction and civil engineering companies established in 1944
Construction and civil engineering companies of the United States
Defense companies of the United States
Engineering companies of the United States
1944 establishments in California
American companies established in 1944
2019 initial public offerings
Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange
Strait of Messina Bridge