[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference of 1999

ee to develop elements that might eventually be incorporated in agreements on investment and competition and return to the question of whether or not to undertake negotiations at the Fourth Ministerial Session?

2 December
The following text is largely taken from the WTO briefing notes of that date.

Agricultural Working Group
A new draft was proposed by the Singaporean delegation emphasising:
 The Integration of Agriculture into mainstream World Trade Organisation policies
 The Reduction of so-called export subsidies
 Developing Country Issues

Ending the meeting, the Chairman said he was walking a tightrope. He was being pulled equally in both directions, he said. The danger was that if he moved one way or another he would fall off the rope. But he observed that the text was only for launching new negotiations. "The new round is where the real battle will begin," he said. If the round is concluded, it will boost global welfare by tens of billions of dollars, he concluded.

Working Group on Market Access

Questions raised in the consultations held by the Chairman focused on the methodology of tariff-cutting negotiations. A number of delegations are proposing a common approach. Unlike in the Uruguay Round where members cut tariffs on a "request-offer" basis, this would be a harmonised approach that would facilitate comparisons of tariff reduction proposals. Another position is using the combination of request-offer and harmonisation in the negotiations. Certain major traders are calling a reference in the text to an effective increase in market access. The Accelerated Tariff Liberalisation initiative for certain product sectors was also raised.

Working Group on Trade and Labour Standards

This working group was set up to help create a labour standards working group within the WTO or a body operated jointly by a number of international organisations to look at the issues. Opinions differed, with a number of developing countries opposing the creation of either type of body.

Working Group on Systemic Issues

elements raised by member governments in this discussion concerned:
 The de-restriction of documents
 Improving the WTO's organisational structure to improve transparency and decision-making,
 improving information flows and
 enhancing public understanding of and participation in the workings of the organisation.

3 December
The following text is largely taken from the WTO briefing notes of that date.

Informal meetings continued through the night of 2 December and into 3 December. The main discussions were in meetings in which some 20–40 ministers took part. The people attending these meetings varied according to subject, and the chairpeople did their utmost to ensure that participants represented a cross-section of the members' positions on the relevant subjects.

Progress was reported in a number of areas, but by late afternoon it was clear that there was too little time left to complete the work of narrowing the gaps, bringing the draft declaration back to the plenary working groups, making any additional changes arising from the working groups and then approving the declaration by consensus. The conference had simply run out of time.

Cultural references
 Actor/Director Stuart Townsend released a film about the protests surrounding the conference in 2007 entitled Battle in Seattle.
 The Seattle-based hip-hop duo Blue Scholars released the song 50 Thousand Deep about their first-hand experience of the protests on their 2007 album Bayani

See also 

 1998 defeat of the OECD's MAI by protest action

References

External links 

 Seattle Selected to Host WTO, Washington Council on International Trade, 25 January 1999.
 Seattle Aftermath, Online NewsHour, 18 January 2000.
 Seattle Weekly Editors Answering WTO's big questions, Seattle Weekly, 2 August 2000.

World Trade Organization ministerial conferences
Diplomatic conferences in the United States
20th-century diplomatic conferences
National Special Security Events
1999 in Washington (state)
1999 in Seattle