[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Black Sea

-sea cooperation

Urban areas

Tourism 

In the years following the end of the Cold War, the popularity of the Black Sea as a tourist destination steadily increased. Tourism at Black Sea resorts became one of the region's growth industries.

The following is a list of notable Black Sea resort towns:

 2 Mai (Romania)
 Agigea (Romania)
 Ahtopol (Bulgaria)
 Amasra (Turkey)
 Anaklia (Georgia)
 Anapa (Russia)
 Albena (Bulgaria)
 Alupka (Crimea, Ukraine/Russia (disputed))
 Alushta (Crimea, Ukraine/Russia (disputed))
 Balchik (Bulgaria)
 Batumi (Georgia)
 Burgas (Bulgaria)
 Byala (Bulgaria)
 Cap Aurora (Romania)
 Chakvi (Georgia)
 Constanța (Romania)
 Constantine and Helena (Bulgaria)
 Corbu (Romania)
 Costinești (Romania)
 Eforie (Romania)
 Emona (Bulgaria)
 Eupatoria (Crimea, Ukraine/Russia (disputed))
 Feodosiya (Crimea, Ukraine/Russia (disputed))
 Foros (Crimea, Ukraine/Russia (disputed))
 Gagra (Abkhazia, Georgia)
 Gelendzhik (Russia)
 Giresun (Turkey)
 Golden Sands (Bulgaria)
 Gonio (Georgia)
 Gudauta (Abkhazia, Georgia) and subsequently the Gudauta Bay
 Gurzuf (Crimea, Ukraine/Russia (disputed))
 Hopa (Artvin, Turkey)
 Jupiter (Romania)
 Kamchia (Bulgaria)
 Kavarna (Bulgaria)
 Kiten (Bulgaria)
 Kobuleti (Georgia)
 Koktebel (Crimea, Ukraine/Russia (disputed))
 Lozenetz (Bulgaria)
 Mamaia (Romania)
 Mangalia (Romania)
 Năvodari (Romania)
 Neptun (Romania)
 Nesebar (Bulgaria)
 Novorossiysk (Russia)
 Obzor (Bulgaria)
 Odesa (Ukraine)
 Olimp (Romania)
 Ordu (Turkey)
 Pitsunda (Abkhazia, Georgia)
 Pomorie (Bulgaria)
 Primorsko (Bulgaria)
 Rize (Turkey)
 Rusalka (Bulgaria)
 Samsun (Turkey)
 Saturn (Romania)
 Şile (Turkey)
 Sinop (Turkey)
 Skadovsk (Ukraine)
 Sochi (Russia)
 Sozopol (Bulgaria)
 Sudak (Crimea, Ukraine/Russia (disputed))
 Sulina (Romania)
 Sunny Beach (Bulgaria)
 Sveti Vlas (Bulgaria)
 Trabzon (Turkey)
 Tsikhisdziri (Georgia)
 Tuapse (Russia)
 Ureki (Georgia)
 Vama Veche (Romania)
 Varna (Bulgaria)
 Venus (Romania)
 Yalta (Crimea, Ukraine/Russia (disputed))
 Zonguldak (Turkey)

Modern military use 

The 1936 Montreux Convention provides for free passage of civilian ships between the international waters of the Black and the Mediterranean seas. However, a single country (Turkey) has complete control over the straits connecting the two seas. Military ships are categorised separately from civilian vessels and can pass through the straits only if the ship belongs to a Black Sea country. Other military ships have the right to pass through the straits if they are not in a war against Turkey and if they stay in the Black Sea basin for a limited time. The 1982 amendments to the Montreux Convention allow Turkey to close the straits at its discretion in both war and peacetime.

The Montreux Convention governs the passage of vessels between the Black, the Mediterranean and Aegean seas and the presence of military vessels belonging to non-littoral states in the Black Sea waters.

The Russian Black Sea Fleet has its official primary headquarters and facilities in the city of Sevastopol (Sevastopol Naval Base).

The Soviet hospital ship  was sunk on 7 November 1941 by German aircraft while evacuating civilians and wounded soldiers from Crimea. It has been estimated that approximately 5,000 to 7,000 people were killed during the sinking, making it one of the deadliest maritime disasters in history. There were only eight survivors.

In December 2018, the Kerch Strait incident occurred, in which the Russian navy and coast guard took control of three Ukrainian vessels as the ships were trying to enter the Black Sea.

In April 2022, during the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Russian cruiser Moskva was sunk in the western Black Sea by sea-skimming Neptune missiles of the Ukrainian armed forces while the Russians claimed that an onboard fire had caused munitions to explode and damage the ship extensively. She was the largest ship to be lost in naval combat in Europe since World War II.

See also

 1927 Crimean earthquakes
 Kerch Strait
 Regions of Europe
 Sea of Azov

Notes and references

Informational notes

Citations

General and cited references  

 
 Stella Ghervas, "Odessa et les confins de l'Europe: un éclairage historique", in Stella Ghervas et François Rosset (ed), Lieux d'Europe. Mythes et limites (Paris: Editions de la Maison des sciences de l'homme, 2008), pp. 107–124. 
 Charles King, The Black Sea: A History, 2004, 
 William Ryan and Walter Pitman, Noah's Flood, 1999, 
 Neal Ascherson, Black Sea (Vintage 1996), 
 
 Rüdiger Schmitt, "Considerations on the Name of the Black Sea", in: Hellas und der griechische Osten (Saarbrücken 1996), pp. 219–224
 
 
 Dimitrov, D. 2010. Geology and Non-traditional resources of the Black Sea . LAP Lambert Academic Publishing. . 244p.

External links