[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Geffen Award

The Geffen Award (פרס גפן) is an annual literary award given by the Israeli Society for Science Fiction and Fantasy since 1999, and presented at the ICon festival, the annual Science Fiction and Fantasy Convention, It is named in honour of editor and translator Amos Geffen, who was one of the society's founders.

Categories 
The Geffen awards are given out in six categories:
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Novel (since 2003)
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Short Story (since 2002)
 Best Translated Science Fiction Novel.
 Best Translated Fantasy Novel.
 Best Translated Book for Children or Young Adults (since 2008).
 Best Translation of a Science Fiction or Fantasy Novel (since 2008, given in collaboration with the Israeli Translator's Association).

List of winners by year

2022 
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Novel: What Others Think in Me, Yoav Blum. 
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Short Story: Dust, Keren Landsman.
 Best Translated Science Fiction Novel: Not awarded.
 Best Translated Fantasy Novel: The Once and Future Witches, Alix E. Harrow.
 Best Translated Book for Children or Young Adults: Tik-Tok of Oz, L. Frank Baum.

2021 
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Novel: The World Beneath the Rug, Lee Evron. 
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Short Story: To Open (or: The Light in The Keyway), Hila Benyovits-Hoffman.
 Best Translated Science Fiction Novel: The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, Suzanne Collins
 Best Translated Fantasy Novel: The Ten Thousand Doors of January, Alix E. Harrow.
 Best Translated Book for Children or Young Adults: Children of Blood and Bone, Tomi Adeyemi.

2020 
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Novel: Satisfying the dragon, Masha Tzur Gluzman.
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Short Story: Blue iceberg beer, Rotem Baruchin.
 Best Translated Science Fiction Novel: Not awarded. 
 Best Translated Fantasy Novel: Spinning Silver, Naomi Novik.
 Best Translated Book for Children or Young Adults: Cuckoo Song, Frances Hardinge.

2019 
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Novel: Heart of the Circle, Keren Landsman.
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Short Story: Dragon Bound, Rotem Baruchin.
 Best Translated Science Fiction Novel: Artemis.
 Best Translated Fantasy Novel: The Alloy of Law.
 Best Translated Book for Children or Young Adults: The Ship of the Dead.

2017 
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Novel: The Unswitchable, Yoav Blum.
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Short Story: Lost and Found, Rotem Baruchin.
 Best Translated Science Fiction Novel: Earth Afire and Earth Awakens Translated by Boaz weiss.
 Best Translated Fantasy Novel: Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Translated by Gili Bar-Hillel.
 Best Translated Book for Children or Young Adults: The Hidden Oracle Translated by Yael Achmon.

2016 
 Best Translated Science Fiction Novel: Redshirts , John Scalzi  Translated by Zafrir Grosman, Opus Press
 Best Translated Fantasy Novel: Fool’s Assassin, Robin Hobb  Translated by Zafrir Grosman, Opus Press
 Best Translated YA Book: The Blood of Olympus, Rick Riordan  Translated by Yael Achmon, Graff publishing
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Short Story: Requiem to Mathew, Avial Tochterman
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Novel: Lake of Shadows, Roni Gelbfish, Gold Fish

2015 
 Best Translated Science Fiction Novel: The Martian, Andy Weir  Translated by Didi Chanoch, The Armchair Publishing House
 Best Translated Fantasy Novel: The Ocean at the End of the Lane, Neil Gaiman  Translated by Didi Chanoch, The Armchair Publishing House
 Best Translated YA Book: Ozma of Oz and Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz, L Frank Baum  Translated by Gili Bar-Hillel Semo, Utz Books
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Short Story: Five Four Three Two One, Five Four Three Two One
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Novel: Broken Skies, Keren Landsman,  Sial Publishing

2014 
 Best Translated Science Fiction Novel: The Devil's Alphabet, Daryl Gregory  Translated by Didi Chanoch, Graff publishing
 Best Translated Fantasy Novel: Going Postal, Terry Pratchett  Translated by Vered Tochterman, Opus press
 Best Translated YA Book: The Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents, Terry Pratchett  Translated by Yonatan Bar, Sial Publishing
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Short Story: Whiskey in a Jar, Rotem Baruchin  Published in "Once upon a future"
 Best Original Science Fiction or Fantasy Novel: Every Story is a Sudden Cat, Gabriella Avigur  Rotem Kinneret Zmora Bitan Publishing