[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tax incentive

tructure.

Corporate tax incentives
Corporate tax incentives can be raised at federal, state, and local government levels. For example, in the United States, the federal tax code provides a wide range of incentives for corporations, totaling $109 billion in 2011, according to a Tax Foundation Study.

The Tax Foundation categorizes US federal tax incentives into four main categories, listed below:
 Tax exclusions for local bonds valued at $12.4 billion.
 Preferences aimed at advancing social policy, valued at $9 billion.
 Preferences that directly benefit specific industries, valued at $17.4 billion.
 Preferences broadly available to most corporate taxpayers, valued at $68.7 billion.

Corporate tax incentives provided by state and local governments are also included in the US tax code but are very often directed at individual companies involved in a corporate site selection project. Site selection consultants negotiate these incentives, which are typically specific to the corporate project the state is recruiting, rather than applicable to a broader industry. Examples include the following:

 Corporate income tax credit
 Property tax abatement
 Sales tax exemption
 Payroll tax refund

In Armenia, corporate income tax incentive is available for Armenian resident entities that meet several criteria under the government’s export promotion-oriented program. Those entities that are part of the government approved program receive reduced corporate income tax rates up to tenfold from the 20% rate. 
Taxpayers running their operations in free economics zones (FEZ) are free from corporate income tax in respect of income received from activities implemented in free economic zones in Armenia.

List of largest US tax incentive deals
Washington: Boeing, $8.7 billion until 2040, partly for the 777X
New York: Alcoa, $5.6 billion
Washington: Boeing, $3.2 billion
Oregon: Nike, $2 billion
New Mexico: Intel, $2 billion
Louisiana: Cheniere Energy, $1.7 billion
Pennsylvania: Royal Dutch Shell, $1.65 billion over 25 years for the Pennsylvania Shell ethylene cracker plant
Missouri: Cerner Corp., $1.64 billion
Michigan: Chrysler, $1.3 billion
Nevada: Tesla Gigafactory 1, $1.25 billion over 20 years
Mississippi: Nissan Canton, $1.25 billion

Historical preservation tax incentive
Not all tax incentives are structured for individuals or corporations, as some tax incentives are meant to help the welfare of the society.  For example, the historical preservation tax incentive.  The US federal government pushes, in many situations, to preserve historical buildings. One way the government does so is through tax incentives for the rehabilitation of historic buildings. The tax incentives to preserve the historic buildings can generate jobs, increase private investment in the city, create housing for low-income individuals in the historic buildings, and enhance property values.  Currently, according to the Tax Reform Act of 1986, there are two major incentives in this category.  The first incentive is a tax credit of 20% for rehabilitation of historic structures. A historic structure is defined as a building listed in the National Register of Historic Places or a building in a registered historic district, acknowledged by the National Park Service. The second incentive is a tax credit of 10% for rehabilitation of structures built before 1936 but are considered non-residential and non-historical.

Impact
According to a 2020 study, tax competition "primarily reduces taxes for mobile firms and is unlikely to substantially affect the efficiency of business location." A 2020 NBER paper found some evidence that state and local business tax incentives in the United States led to employment gains but no evidence that the incentives increased broader economic growth at the state and local level.

A 2021 study found that multinational firms boosted wages and employment in localities, but that the surplus that the firms generated tended to go back to them in the form of local subsidies.

See also
 Taxation in the United States
 Tax exemption
 Tax competition
Texas Tax Code Chapter 313

References

External links

Tax terms

ru:Налоговые льготы