[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lanarkshire and Dumbartonshire Railway

el station under Glasgow Central, and making a connection at Stobcross to the extensive dock sidings there. The line was prodigiously difficult to construct, and it did not open throughout until 1896. It was heavily used for suburban passenger purposes, but also by goods trains to and from the dock.

The Lanarkshire and Dumbartonshire Railway approved
The Caledonian Railway had no access to any of the industry and dock sites on the north bank of the Clyde west of Stobcross (except at the Bowling canal basin of the Forth and Clyde Canal, having bought out the canal in 1853). The company used a variant spelling of 'Dunbartonshire'.

In 1891 a Parliamentary Bill was submitted for the Lanarkshire and Dumbartonshire Railway (L&DR). It was nominally independent, although promoted with heavy Caledonian support, and the authorising Act was passed on 5 August 1891.

Coming later than the urban development of the city, the line was forced to take a circuitous route with several tunnel sections to penetrate the hilly topography. The Glasgow Central Railway joined the Caledonian on the south side, but the L&DR was to spring from junctions at Balornock, near Provanmill on the line out of the Buchanan Street terminus, on the north-east side of the city. A branch from Balornock to Hamiltonhill had been promoted in 1883; intended to serve iron foundries and other industry along the route of the Forth and Clyde Canal there. The route arched round north of Springburn Park, but land acquisition problems prevented the line from being completed at Hamiltonhill. The L&DR route was now to use the first part of the Hamiltonhill line as far as Possil, then continuing west and crossing under the River Kelvin to a new through station at Maryhill, joining the Glasgow Central Railway near there, giving onward access to Stobcross.

From Maryhill the L&DR continued west and then south in tunnel to a triangular junction near the bank of the Clyde. An eastward arm led through Partick to the Stobcross station of the Central line; the westward arm continued close to the river through Scotstoun and Yoker, serving numerous industrial sites, then looping north at Clydebank. Crossing over and then under the North British line, it continued between the Forth and Clyde Canal and the Clyde to Bowling, where it crossed to the north of the canal and the NBR line, then looping south of the NBR at Dumbuck to a new Dumbarton East station, finally joining the North British line at Dumbarton Junction.

The Lanarkshire and Dumbartonshire line was originally proposed (in 1891) to run through Dumbarton to Aber Bay, near Ross Priory on the east shore of Loch Lomond. This would have closely followed the North British line in the confines of the valley of the River Leven. The duplication aroused considerable opposition from residents and shareholders, and the compromise had been reached that the section of the existing line from Dumbarton to Balloch would be made joint. This arrangement was confirmed by Act of Parliament of 27 July 1892, and incidentally included transfer to joint control of steamers on Loch Lomond. From Dumbarton Junction the NBR line to Balloch was to be transferred to joint control, between the NBR, the L&DR and the Caledonian Railway, on the day that the L&DR opened its line for passengers to that point. The joint section would be called the Dumbarton and Balloch Joint Railway.

Construction and opening
The Caledonian Railway subscribed £82,000 to the building of the line, but the majority of the capital was readily subscribed by industrialists in the area to be served; efficient and convenient transport was essential to the heavy industries. The Caledonian agreed to work the line for 4% of the capital.

Work on construction started on 6 October 1891. 

On 26 November 1894 the line opened for goods between Maryhill and Balornock Junction. The stub of the Hamiltonhill branch remained connected for the time being, and after 1901 it came into good use delivering supplies to the Ruchill Hospital. (Some of the residual unused land was sold in May 1919.)

The next section opened from Maryhill Central via Kelvinside and Crow Road to the triangular junction at Partick, and between Stobcross and Clydebank on 1 May 1896.

The line was extended to Dumbarton on 15 June 1896. Also opened from Maryhill Central via Kelvinside and Crow Road to a triangular junction at Partick on 1 May 1896.

These openings were for goods trains only: Maryhill had passenger services from 10 August 1896, Possil from 1 Feb 1897 for workmen only, and was fully open from 1 October 1897; on the same day passenger services reached Dawsholm (Glasgow Central Railway). 

The line to Dumbarton was fully open from 1 October 1896, from which date the Dumbarton and Balloch Joint Railway was created.