[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 178]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

th a shrug.

"Still less perhaps. Tradition says 'Weep, this is the moment,' or
'Rejoice, the hour has come,' and we chant our dirge or kindle our
bonfires accordingly. Why, it means a little martyrdom to the occasional
sinner who selects his own occasion for sorrow or for joy."

Valeria laughed at the notion of Hadria's being under the dictatorship
of tradition, or of anything else, as to her emotions.

But Hadria held that everybody was more or less subject to the thraldom.
And the thraldom increased as the mind and the experience narrowed. And
as the narrowing process progressed, she said, the exhausting or vampire
quality grew and grew.

"I have seen it, I have seen it! Those who have been starved in life,
levy a sort of tax on the plenty of others, in the instinctive effort to
replenish their own empty treasure-house. Only that is impossible. One
can gain no riches in that fashion. One can only reduce one's victim to
a beggary like one's own."

Valeria was perturbed.

"The more I see of life, the more bitter a thing it seems to be a woman!
And one of the discouraging features of it is, that women are so ready
to oppress each other!"

"Because they have themselves suffered oppression," said the Professor.
"It is a law that we cannot evade; if we are injured, we pay back the
injury, whether we will or not, upon our neighbours. If we are blessed,
we bless, but if we are cursed, we curse."

"These moral laws, or laws of nature, or whatever one likes to call
them, seem to be stern as death!" exclaimed Valeria. "I suppose we are
all inheriting the curse that has been laid upon our mothers through so
many ages."

"We are not free from the shades of our grandmothers," said Hadria,
"only I hope a little (when I have not been to the Vicarage for some
time) that we may be less of a hindrance and an obsession to our
granddaughters than our grandmothers have been to us."

"Ah! that way lies hope!" cried the Professor.

"I wish, I _wish_ I could believe!" Valeria exclaimed. "But I was born
ten years too early for the faith of this generation."

"It is you who have helped to give this generation its faith," said
Hadria.

"But have you real hope and real faith, in your heart of hearts? Tell
me, Hadria."

Hadria looked startled.

"Ah! I knew it. Women _don't_ really believe that the cloud will lift.
If they really believed what they profess, they would prove it. They
would not submit and resign themselves. Oh, why don't you shew what a
woman can do, Hadria?"

Hadria gave a faint smile.

She did not speak for some time, and when she did, her words seemed to
have no direct reference to Valeria's question.

"I believe that there are thousands and thousands of women whose lives
have run on parallel lines with mine."

She recalled a strange and grotesque vision, or waking-dream, that she
had dreamt a few nights before: of a vast abyss, black and silent, which
had to be filled up to the top with the bodies of women, hurled down to
the depths of the pit of darkness, in order that the survivors might, at
last, walk over in safety. Human bodies take but little room, and the
abyss seemed to swallow them, as some greedy animal its prey. But Hadria
knew, in her dream, that some day it would have claimed its last victim,
and the surface would be level and solid, so that people would come and
go, scarcely remembering that beneath their feet was once a chasm into
which throbbing lives had to descend, to darkness and a living death.

Valeria looked anxious and ill at ease. She watched Hadria's face.

She was longing to urge her to leave Craddock Dene, but was deterred by
the knowledge of the uselessness of such advice. Hadria could not take
it.

"I chafe against these situations!" cried Valeria. "I am so unused, in
my own life, to such tethers and limitations. They would drive me
crazy!"

"Oh," Hadria exclaimed, with an amused smile, "this is a new cry!"

"I don't care," said Valeria discontentedly. "I never supposed that one
_could_ be tied hand and foot, in this way. I should never stand it. It
is intolerable!"

"These are what you have frequently commended to me as 'home ties,'"
said Hadria.

"Oh, but it is impossible!"

"You attack the family!" cried the Professor.

"If the family makes itself ridiculous----?"

The Professor and Hadria laughed. Valeria was growing excited.

"The natural instinct of man to get his fun at his neighbour's expense
meets with wholesome rebuffs in the outer world," said the Professor,
"but in the family it has its chance. That's why the family is so
popular."

Valeria, with her wonted capriciousness, veered round in defence of the
institution that she had been just jeering at.

"Well, after all, it is the order of Nature to have one's fun at the
expense of someone, and I don't believe we shall ever be able to
practise any other principle, I mean on a national scale, however much
we may pr