[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Grande Hotel Beira

not comprehending the height differences, they fell to their deaths from the roof terrace.

The hotel survived Cyclone Idai in March 2019.

Current status

Since 1992, Mozambique has enjoyed peace and stability. The seaport of Beira is redeveloped and booming due to the transit of minerals to Asia. 

The Grande Hotel has deteriorated, however. With only 116 hotel rooms, it now provides shelter for a fluctuating population of around 1,077 inhabitants (Ivo 2008), with large families inhabiting a single room. They do not pay any rent and cannot claim a right of ownership. There is little formal maintenance of the collective space, resulting in accumulating garbage, leaking rain water, open elevator shafts and inaccessible stairs. The Olympic swimming pool, now polluted, is used for bathing by inhabitants who cannot afford to buy water at the privately owned water pump opposite the Grande Hotel. According to the local Red Cross, there is a high risk of cholera, diarrhoea, HIV/AIDS, malaria and scabies in the Grande Hotel. The water, sewer and electricity infrastructures have been removed and sold in order to obtain money for food and water. The parquet floor is used as fuel for cooking.

Most inhabitants find work only in the informal economic sector; they are, as implied by their nickname of 'whato muno' (not from here), excluded from the formal socio-economic life of Beira. As the city's formal economy grows, this puts pressure on the informal economy. It has become harder for Grande Hotel inhabitants to meet basic needs. The nickname 'whato muno' is used in Beira as a derogatory term for the inhabitants of the Grande Hotel. The hotel is considered to be a place where robbers live and where the police do not have any authority. There was at one time an advanced three-layered chief structure which kept order, but this no longer exists. The local municipal secretary of the neighbourhood (who also lives in the Grande Hotel) is now seen as the unofficial chief, but without the power that a chief would normally have in a Mozambique community.

These days, there are only two common rules of the Grande Hotel: Respect one another. And, the Grande Hotel is open to anybody who wants shelter.

The hotel and its squatters are the subject of the 2007 documentary film Night Lodgers.

Future
The local municipal authority would like to relocate the current inhabitants, providing housing in the slum of Chipangara, and then demolish the structure and develop the land for commercial uses. However, the municipal authority is not the legal owner; neither does it have the funds nor the investors currently willing to participate in this project.

Meanwhile, new residents keep coming, and many people remain trapped in the Grande Hotel by poverty, some of them third generation inhabitants.

Similar examples
 Ponte City in Johannesburg, South Africa
 Schubart Park in Pretoria, South Africa
 Torre David in Caracas, Venezuela

Picture gallery

References

External links

Architecture:
 Robert Cruiming, a TU Delft architecture student, graduates on the Grande Hotel. His aim is to transfer the Grande Hotel is a more permanent type of dwelling place for the current inhabitants by implementing a new type of livelihood.

Film:
 Lotte Stoops released in 2010 the documentary Grande Hotel. It was widely acclaimed by critics. Details can be found on IMDB and on the website.
 Anabela Saint-Maurice of the Portuguese RTP made in 2007 a documentary of the decay and current status by shooting the first revisit of architect of Francisco de Castro after the independence of Mozambique.
 Héctor Mediaville made in 2012 a documentary where three Grande Hotel inhabitants where interviewed about their occupation in the hotel.