[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mamoru Shinozaki

ozaki's autobiography wrote many things about JMA which Tan didn't know, but Shinozaki didn't know the sorrows of Singaporean citizens. Then he corrected some "mistakes" of Shinozaki based on Tan's own experience and asked readers to report their own experiences to compare with what Shinozaki wrote.

Hiding true aim of "evacuation"
On 28 August 1973, Wu Cha on Nanyang Siang Pau followed Tan Y.S., he pointed out that he heard from credible sources that when JMA let Singaporean leaders move to the "settlements", they made a "Black List" and was prepared, if the Allied Army landed Malay Peninsula, to immediately kill the people on that list. Shinozaki referred to the "evacuation" plan, but the fact that he didn't refer to its true aim was unnatural. If he had forgotten to write the dark side of JMA, he could understand that, but if the distortion and fabrication of history had been done intentionally, he couldn't forgive that. Then he also asked readers to tell and record their experiences to debunk the lies of Shinozaki.

Ashamed
On 12 September 1973, Lee Kim Chuan on Nanyang Siang Pau criticized Shinozaki, that though he was in Force 136 and was not in Singapore during the War, what was written in Shinozaki's autobiography was far different from what he had heard from his friends in Singapore or from the evidence of the War Criminal Court. Writing such a self-praising book was shameful behavior.

In November 1974 on , a Japanese journal, Hiroshi Tanaka introduced the series of articles from Singaporean Newspapers which criticized Shinozaki's autobiography. He translated some of them.

Too many Japanese dead in British PoW camps 
In May 1975, a writer of New Nation doubted the credibility of Shinozaki's autobiography when he had written that 10,000 Japanese prisoners had died in Singapore, in British PoW camps after the war. He interviewed Shinozaki, but Shinozaki gave no explanation for how he had arrived at that number.

Opportunistic remarks to the estimate of victims 
In June 1983, Chua Ser Koon on Lianhe Zaobao pointed that Shinozaki in his Chinese autobiography  admitted that the estimate of victims "which was recorded by the Chinese Chamber of Commerce" was relatively accurate compared with what the Japanese Occupied Army had argued, but in his Japanese autobiography , he wrote that because the number of victims "which was recorded by the Chinese Chamber of Commerce" contained an estimate of dead during the Battle of Singapore, Japanese might feel the accumulation inacceptable, and the estimate of Sook Ching victims "by the Chinese Chamber of Commerce" was inaccurate. Shinozaki in his Chinese autobiography agreed that the estimate by the Chinese Chamber of Commerce was only to seek Chinese readers' favour, his true point of view was not so different from what Japanese Kempei-tai  had claimed.

Legacy 
There is no detailed information about what Shinozaki did in his later years. In 1978 he was interviewed by Yoji Akashi at Hirakata, Osaka. Up to 1983, he wrote some articles about the modern history of Singapore which were published in Japanese magazines such as "Shi (History)" by "Gendai-shi Konwakai (social meeting on modern history)" and he took part in the Japan Safety Appliances Association. He died in 1991.

Chuang Hui Tsuan, who protested the deportation of Shinozaki and who first criticized Shinozaki's autobiography, collected the materials about the history of Japanese occupation period and then committed the editorial to Professor Hsu Yun Tsiao of Nanyang University. Though Chuang died in 1974 and Hsu died in 1981, Chua Ser Koon continued editing and in 1984 the book titled Xin Ma Huaren Kangri Shiliao (Malayan Chinese Resistance to Japan) 1937-1945 was published to tell the experiences of the Singaporean citizens who lived through the period of Japanese occupation and to tell the "true history" to the next generation.

In 1987,  again criticized many distortions of Shinozaki's autobiography and warned that there are still many books in Japan which are misleading about the history of Japanese-Occupied Singapore and some of them referenced Shinozaki's autobiography.

Afterwards, Singaporeans started to call Shinozaki the "Schindler" of Singapore.

References

Bibliography

1908 births
1991 deaths
People from British Singapore
Japanese occupation of Singapore
Japanese spies
Meiji University alumni