[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tommy Griffin

Tommy Griffin is a former Irish Gaelic football player for Kerry and An Daingean.

Playing career

Club

At club level Griffin lined out with Dingle GAA. He won Kerry Intermediate Football Championship titles in 1996 and 2004. He also won a number of West Kerry Senior football league and championship titles during his playing days.

Schools

Griffin won Munster and All Ireland Colleges Medals 'B' with Dingle CBS in 1996.

Minor

He first came on the intercounty scene in 1996 as part of the Kerry minor team. He was midfield as Kerry overcame Cork in the Munster Minor Football Championship final. He was again midfield as Kerry overcame Mayo in the All-Ireland semi-final. He missed out on the All-Ireland final loss to Laois.

Under 21

Griffin joined the Kerry Under 21 team straight out of minor level in 1997. He appeared in the Munster championship win over Clare before starting at midfield for the Munster final with Cork. The sides finished level, but Griffin played no part in the re-play.

He was a regular in the team in 1998. He scored a point in the Munster final win over Tipperary. He was again midfield for the All-Ireland semi-final win over Armagh. In the All-Ireland final Kerry went into the game as underdogs against a start studded Laois team. In the end it was Griffin and co who were celebrating after a 2-08 to 0-11 win and an All-Ireland title.

Wins over Waterford, Limerick and Cork seen Griffin win his second Munster title. The All-Ireland semi-final seen the Kingdom overcome Roscommon and another All-Ireland final. While the year before Kerry were underdogs they were seen as big favorites for the clash with Wetmeath. However in the end the title went to the Leinster side with a bit to spare on a 1-12 to 0-09 scoreline.

Junior

Despite winning an All-Ireland senior title, by 2003 Griffin found himself out of the reckoning with the Kerry senior team, He joined the counties Junior team that season. A win over Tipperary seen Kerry qualify for the Munster final. In the final Kerry faced Cork and Griffin played a key role at midfield. He scored two points as Kerry took the title on a 2-09 to 0-14 win and gave Griffin a clean swap of minor, Under 21, Junior and Senior Munster titles. Kerry lost out to Meath in the All-Ireland semi-final.

Senior

He was soon promoted to the senior panel and played four times during the 1999/00 National League. His championship debut was in the Munster Senior Football Championship final win over Clare. His next appearance would be during the All-Ireland semi-final re-play win over Armagh, a game Kerry won after extra time. He again would appear in the re-play of the All-Ireland Senior Football Championship final win over Galway, giving Griffin his first All-Ireland medal.

Griffins game time was limited during 2001. His only National League game was in the final round against Galway. In played in the Munster championship win over Tipperary. He wouldn't play again until the All-Ireland semi-final with Meath. It was a bad day at the office however, as Kerry suffered one of their biggest championship losses.

The loss to Meath would turn out to be Griffin last game at senior level for a number of seasons.

After a few seasons away Griffin returned to the side under new manager Jack O Connor. He played during the 2004 National Football League. He made his first championship appearance since 2001 when he came on as a sub during the Munster final clash with Limerick, making a big impact as the sides ended level. He again appeared as a sub for the re-play as Kerry took the title and gave Griffin his second Munster title. His next appearance was in the All-Ireland semi-final win over Derry. He played no part in the All-Ireland final win over Mayo.

He played no part in either the 2005 National League or Championship.