[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Saad el-Shazly

ecrets. He was sentenced to three years in prison with hard labor, and his property was placed under supervision. He was also deprived of legal representation and stripped of his political rights. Shazly denied those allegation stating that what he published was government information, not military.

He disagreed with Sadat, and publicly criticized the Camp David Accords that Sadat signed with Israel in 1978; The dispute intensified to the point of removing Al-Shazly’s name and photos from the official list of the October War. Sadat also ordered the removal of all photos showing Al-Shazly next to him inside the operations room, and replacing them with photos showing Major General Muhammad Abdel-Ghani Al-Gamsi, head of the Armed Forces Operations Authority in At that time. Shazly's reputation was also distorted and attacked, and his memoirs were banned in Egypt, as they were the reason for his imprisonment for two years after he spent 14 years as a political refugee in Algeria.

High Minarets Plan "Operation Badr" 
This was the plan developed by Al-Shazly to attack the Israeli forces and storm the Suez Canal in August 1971, which he called the "High Minarets" plan:

This plan was drawn up due to the weakness of the Egyptian Air Force and the weak capabilities in the Egyptian Air Defense Command, which prevented a major offensive operation.  However, a limited operation could be carried out to cross the Suez Canal, destroy the Barlev Line and occupy 10 to 12 kilometers east of the canal, which was the maximum range of Egyptian air defense, and then switch to take defensive positions.

The philosophy of this plan was that Israel had two weaknesses:

The first was the inability to withstand human losses due to the small number of its members.

The second was to prolong the duration of the war. In all previous wars, it depended on lightning wars that ended within four or six weeks at the most. Because during this period it mobilized 18% of the Israeli people and this was a very high percentage.  Moreover, the economic situation would be severely affected in Israel due to the interruption of education, agriculture and industry. Because most of those who worked in these institutions were ultimately officers and soldiers in the Israeli armed forces.

The plan had two other dimensions in terms of depriving Israel of its most important combat advantages:

The first: denying him the attack from the sides because the sides of the Egyptian army will be based on the Mediterranean Sea in the north, and on the Gulf of Suez in the south, and will not be able to attack from the rear, which will be the Suez Canal hence he will have to attack in front of it, and pay the heavy price.

The second: The enemy has an important advantage in the confrontational battles, which is the rapid air support of its armored elements, whereby the Western combat doctrine under which Israel operates at the lowest levels of the commanders allows the use of air support, which will lose it because the Egyptian forces will be in the protection of the Egyptian air defense, and from  here, the process of neutralizing Israeli aviation takes place during the battle.

Announcement 41 
Lieutenant General Saad El-Shazly, Chief of Staff of the Egyptian Armed Forces (41) issued a directive clarifying the manner in which soldiers perform their combat duties during the October 1973 war. Guidance 41 is what was implemented in October war operations, and the plan succeeded with overwhelming success. This directive started by placing all problems and difficulties of Egyptian plan to cross the canal and destroy the Bar Lev Line in front of the working group which had to set solutions to each problem. It was the most complex problem that the group had met with and it was the earthen embankment on the east bank of the canal, which gave the Israeli side the advantage of controlling the fire, and the remark against the forces crossing, and this led to the suggestion of the need to build high strong points equipped with terraces of tanks on the West Bank of the Suez Canal, allowing the Egyptian side to secure its forces that cross the channel with fire and information. LT Gen. Al-Shazly had to collect the combat experience from the Egyptian forces' actions and lessons learned immediately after the event, and it will be distributed to members of the armed forces to benefit from them in any future similar operations, for example, guidance for securing radars in isolated areas after they raid Israeli on one of the isolated radars in Zafarana,