[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# United States rainfall climatology

The characteristics of United States rainfall climatology differ significantly across the United States and those under United States sovereignty.  Summer and early fall bring brief, but frequent thundershowers and tropical cyclones which create a wet summer and drier winter in the eastern Gulf and lower East Coast. During the winter, and spring, Pacific storm systems bring Hawaii and the western United States most of their precipitation.  Low pressure systems moving up the East Coast and through the Great Lakes, bring cold season precipitation to from the Midwest to New England, as well as Great Salt Lake. The snow to liquid ratio across the contiguous United States averages 13:1, meaning  of snow melts down to  of water.

During the summer, the North American monsoon combined with Gulf of California and Gulf of Mexico moisture moving around the subtropical ridge in the Atlantic Ocean bring the promise of afternoon and evening air-mass thunderstorms to the southern tier of the country as well as the Great Plains.  Equatorward of the subtropical ridge, tropical cyclones enhance precipitation across southern and eastern sections of the country, as well as Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and American Samoa.  Over the top of the ridge, the jet stream brings a summer precipitation maximum to the Great Plains and western Great Lakes. Large thunderstorm areas known as mesoscale convective complexes move through the Plains, Midwest, and Great Lakes during the warm season, contributing up to 10% of the annual precipitation to the region.

The El Niño–Southern Oscillation affects the precipitation distribution, by altering rainfall patterns across the West, Midwest, the Southeast, and throughout the tropics.  There is also evidence that global warming is leading to increased precipitation to the eastern portions of North America, while droughts are becoming more frequent in the western portions. Furthermore, global La Niña meteorological events are generally associated with drier and hotter conditions and further exacerbation of droughts in California and the Southwestern and to some extent the Southeastern United States. Meteorological  scientists have observed that La Niñas have become more frequent over time.

General

The eastern part of the contiguous United States east of the 98th meridian, the mountains of the Pacific Northwest, the Willamette Valley, and the Sierra Nevada range are the wetter portions of the nation, with average rainfall exceeding  per year.  The drier areas are the Desert Southwest, Great Basin, valleys of northeast Arizona, eastern Utah, and central Wyoming. Increased warming within urban heat islands leads to an increase in rainfall downwind of cities.

Alaska

Juneau averages over  of precipitation a year, while other areas in southeast Alaska receive over .  South central Alaska does not get nearly as much rain as the southeast of Alaska, though it does get more snow.  On average, Anchorage receives  of precipitation a year, with around  of snow.  The northern coast of the Gulf of Alaska receives up to  of precipitation annually.  Across western sections of the state, the northern side of the Seward Peninsula is a desert with less than  of precipitation annually, while some locations between Dillingham and Bethel average around  of precipitation.  Inland, often less than  falls a year, but what precipitation falls during the winter tends to stay throughout the season.  La Niña events lead to drier than normal conditions, while El Niño events do not have a correlation towards dry or wet conditions.  Precipitation increases by 10 to 40 percent when the Pacific decadal oscillation is positive.

West