[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Southern Baptist Theological Seminary

Louisiana College in Pineville, Louisiana
 James Emery White, pastor, author, and Professor of Theology and Culture
 Steve Willis, pastor and health activist
 Norman Barton Wood, pastor, author, lecturer
 Bryant Wright, pastor, president of the Southern Baptist Convention from 2010 to 2011.

Faculty

 Peter Gentry, Old Testament scholar and Semitic linguist.
 Michael Haykin, Professor of Church History.
 Timothy Paul Jones, apologist and C. Edwin Gheens Chair of Christian Family Ministry (2007–present), noted for his response to Misquoting Jesus by Bart D. Ehrman and for his critique of family integrated church.
 Thomas R. Schreiner, New Testament scholar.
 Crawford Howell Toy (1869–1879), Hebrew and Old Testament scholar. Dismissed for his views on biblical inspiration and evolution.
 Bruce Ware, theologian, former Chairman of the Department of Biblical and Systematic Theology at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School and former president of the Evangelical Theological Society.

Presidents

See also

 Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary
 Religion in Louisville, Kentucky

References

Further reading
 Mark R. Wilson. William Owen Carver's Controversies in the Baptist South (Mercer University Press; 2010) 235 pages. Biography of a prominent professor (1868–1954) at The Southern Baptist Theological Seminary who was involved in several major controversies in the denomination.
 Robert P. Jones, White Too Long – The Legacy of White Supremacy in American Christianity (Simon & Schuster Paperbacks; 2020) 314 pages.

External links
 
 
 Southern Baptist Theological Seminary Collection – Furman University Special Collections 

 
Universities and colleges established in 1859
1859 establishments in South Carolina
1877 establishments in Kentucky
Seminaries and theological colleges affiliated with the Southern Baptist Convention
Baptist organizations established in the 19th century
Baptist Christianity in Kentucky
Universities and colleges accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
Christianity in Louisville, Kentucky
Seminaries and theological colleges in Kentucky
Universities and colleges in Louisville, Kentucky