[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Humanitarian principles

he above principles are important requirements for effective field operations.  They are based on the widespread field experience of agencies engaged in humanitarian response.  In conflict situations, their breach may drastically affect the ability of agencies to respond to the needs of the victims.

If a warring party believes, for example, that an agency is favouring the other side, or that it is an agent of the enemy, access to the victims may be blocked and the lives of humanitarian workers may be put in danger.  If one of the parties perceives that an agency is trying to spread another religious faith, there may be a hostile reaction to their activities.

Sources
The core principles, found in the Red Cross/NGO Code of Conduct and in GA Resolution 46/182 are derived from the Fundamental Principles of the Red Cross, particularly principles I (humanity), II (impartiality), III (neutrality—in the case of the UN), and IV (independence). A full commentary and analysis of all ten principles in the Red Cross Red Crescent Code of Conduct can be seen in Hugo Slim's book Humanitarian Ethics.

Humanitarian accountability 
Accountability has been defined as: "the processes through which an organisation makes a 
commitment to respond to and balance the needs of stakeholders in its decision making processes and activities, and delivers against this commitment." Humanitarian Accountability Partnership International adds: "Accountability is about using power responsibly."

Article 9 of the Code of Conduct for the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and NGOs in Disaster Relief states:
"We hold ourselves accountable to both those we seek to assist and those from whom we accept resources;" and thus identifies the two major stake holders: donors and beneficiaries.  However, traditionally humanitarian agencies have tended to practice mainly "upward accountability", i.e. to their donors.

The experience of many humanitarian agencies during the Rwandan Genocide, led to a number of initiatives designed to improve humanitarian assistance and accountability, particularly with respect to the beneficiaries.  Examples include the Sphere Project, ALNAP, Compas,  the People In Aid Code of Good Practice, and the Humanitarian Accountability Partnership International, which runs a "global quality insurance scheme for humanitarian agencies."

Additional principles
The RC/NGO Code also lists a number of more aspirational principles which are derived from experience  with development assistance.
Agencies should operate with respect to culture and custom
Humanitarian response should use local resources and capacities as much as possible
The participation of the beneficiaries should be encouraged
Emergency response should strive to reduce future vulnerabilities
Agencies should be accountable to both donors and beneficiaries
Humanitarian agencies should use information activities to portray victims as dignified human beings, not hopeless objects

The right to life with dignity
The Sphere Project Humanitarian Charter uses the language of human rights to remind that the right to life which is proclaimed in both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights is related to human dignity.

Vulnerability and behavioral issues
Humanitarian principles are mainly focused on the behavior of organizations.  However a humane response implies that humanitarian workers are not to take advantage of the vulnerabilities of those affected by war and violence.  Agencies have the responsibility for developing rules of staff conduct which prevent abuse of the beneficiaries.

Sexual exploitation and abuse
One of the most problematic areas is related to the issue of sexual exploitation and abuse of beneficiaries by humanitarian workers.  In an emergency where victims have lost everything, women and girls are particularly vulnerable to sexual abuse.

A number of reports which identified the sexual exploitation of refugees in west Africa prodded the humanitarian community to work together in examining the problem and to take measures to prevent abuses.  In July 2002, the UN's Interagency Standing Committee (IASC) adopted a plan of action which stated: Sexual exploitation and abuse by humanitarian workers constitute acts of gross misconduct and are therefore grounds for termination of employment.  The plan explicitly prohibited the "Exchange of money, employment, goods, or services for sex, including sexual favours or other forms of humiliating, degrading or exploitative behaviour."  The major NGHAs as well as the UN agencies engaged in humanitarian response committed themselves to setting up internal structures to prevent sexual exploitation and abuse of beneficiaries.