[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hudson Hornet

to 40 wins in 48 events, a winning percentage of 83%.

Overall, Hudson won 27 of the 34 NASCAR Grand National races in 1952, followed by 22 wins of 37 in 1953, and captured 17 of the 37 races in 1954 — "an incredible accomplishment, especially from a car that had some legitimate luxury credentials."

The original Fabulous Hudson Hornet can be found today fully restored in Ypsilanti, Michigan at the Ypsilanti Automotive Heritage Museum, a facility that was formerly home to Miller Motors, the last Hudson dealership in the world.

Second generation 

In its final three model years, the Hornet became a product of the newly-formed American Motors Corporation (AMC). Following the 1954 merger of the Hudson Motor Car Company and Nash-Kelvinator, Hudson's Detroit manufacturing facility was closed and the production of Hudson models was shifted to Nash's Wisconsin factory. No longer built on the "Step-down" platform, all Hornets were now based on the senior Nash models, but featuring distinctive Hudson styling themes.

1955 

The 1955 Hudson senior models were built on the Nash platform with styling themes by Pinin Farina, Edmund Anderson, and Frank Spring. The cars featured a front end that was originally designed by Spring and the Hudson stylists for an updated 1955 version of the 1954 Hudson "Step-Down" platform.

The new models were delayed to a January 1955 introduction, "as American Motors engineers work out the problem of making two completely different looking automobiles with identical body shells."

As the first entirely new car from American Motors, the 1955 Hudson emerged conservatively styled compared to the competition. The 1955 Hornet was the cleanest model with a broad egg-crate grille and distinctive two-toning. Sedan and hardtop body styles were offered, but the coupe and convertible were no longer available. The 1955 Hornets shared the styling with the new Wasps, but featured a longer  wheelbase.

The  straight-six engine continued in  or  versions. For the first time, the Hornet could be ordered with a Packard-built  V8 engine producing  and Packard's Ultramatic automatic transmission. The rear suspension now incorporated a torque tube system for the driveshaft and coil spring rear suspension along with front springs that are twice as long as most other cars.

Along with Nash, the new Hudsons had the widest front seats in the industry. Two trim levels were available, Super and Custom, with the Custom series including a continental tire carrier, a  "table-like" center armrest for the rear seat, a padded dashboard, transparent sun visors, and an over the windshield interior package net.

The Weather Eye heating and ventilation with an optional air conditioning system were highly rated in terms of efficiency. The integrated placement of major air conditioning systems under the hood and the price of only $395 (about half the cost as on other cars) also won praise. Automotive journalist Floyd Clymer rated the Hudson Hornet as the safest car built in the United States because of (1) the single unit welded body, (2) high-quality braking system with an added mechanical backup system, (3) roadability, general handling, and maneuverability; as well as (4) excellent acceleration and power for emergency situations.

Marketing efforts included incentives such as the "Dealer Volume Investment Fund" and "Sun Valley Sweepstakes" targeting salespeople as well as a contest for the general public with the possibility of new cars and trips to Disneyland as top prizes. Production for the 1955 model year totaled 10,010 four-door sedans and 3,324 Hollywood two-door hardtops.

1956 

For the 1956 model year, AMC executives decided to give the Hornet more character and the design for the vehicles was given over to designer Richard Arbib, who provided the Hornet and Wasp with one of the more distinctive looks in the 1950s which he called "V-Line Styling". Taking the traditional Hudson tri-angle, Arbib applied its "V" form in every conceivable manner across the interior and exterior of the car. Combined with tri-tone paint combinations, Hudson's look was unique and immediately noticeable.

The legendary  straight-six engine, with and without Twin-H Power, was offered and gained  for 1956. However, Packard's V8 engine was available only during the first half of 1956. In the mid-model year, the Hornet Special was introduced featuring a lower price and AMC's new   V8 engine. The Hornet Special models were built on a  shorter and slightly lighter Statesman/Wasp four-door sedan and two-door hardtop platform with Hornet trim.

The 1956 design failed to excite buyers and Hudson Hornet sales decreased to 8,152 units, of which 6,512 were four-door sedans and 1,640 Hollywood two-door hardtops.

1957