[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aloha, Scooby-Doo!

ted the so-called "demons." The mayor ultimately announces Scooby as the winner of the surfing contest (for the way he and Shaggy were surfing while battling Manu), making him the new Big Kahuna of Hanahuna. Manu is shocked and angry at losing to a dog. He and Snookie are arrested and taken to jail.

Later that night, a big luau is held in celebration of the gang's help at the hotel the gang was staying at. Everyone thanks them for solving the mystery and Ruben Laluna reveals that the real estate Manu and Snookie bought will be returned to the original owners. Jared Moon comes by to tell Daphne that Goha Aloha loved her swimsuit designs and wants to buy them. After Auntie Mahina thanks the gang, the mini-tikis come to the party and advance—but instead of attacking people, they dance. It's revealed that Scooby has the remote control for them and is making them dance. Everyone laughs while Scooby says his catchphrase before saying "Aloha!".

Voice cast
 Frank Welker as Fred Jones, Scooby-Doo, Wiki-Tiki
 Casey Kasem as Shaggy Rogers
 Grey DeLisle as Daphne Blake, Auntie Mahina, Local Woman #2
 Mindy Cohn as Velma Dinkley
 Mario Lopez as Manu Tuiama
 Ray Bumatai as Little Jim
 Teri Garr as Mayor Molly Quinn
 Adam West as Jared Moon
 Tom Kenny as Ruben Laluna
 Dee Bradley Baker as Additional Voices
 Tia Carrere as Snookie

References

External links

 
 

2005 direct-to-video films
2005 films
2005 animated films
2000s American animated films
2000s English-language films
2000s monster movies
American mystery films
American direct-to-video films
Warner Bros. Animation animated films
Animated films based on animated series
Warner Bros. direct-to-video animated films
Animated films set in Hawaii
Scooby-Doo direct-to-video animated films
American surfing films
American children's animated adventure films
American children's animated mystery films
American children's animated comedy films
2000s children's animated films