[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Equality and Human Rights Commission

all's Diversity Champions scheme in March 2021.

In October 2021, a group of academics published a letter in The Times calling on the EHRC to conduct a review of UK universities where policies are discriminating, the writers say, against "gender-critical" beliefs in the debate on transgender rights.

January 2022 statements on GRA reform and conversion therapy
On 26 January 2022 the EHRC wrote to Shona Robison, as Cabinet Secretary for Social Justice, Housing and Local Government for the Scottish Government, raising concerns about the proposed reforms to the Gender Recognition Act 2004 in Scotland, mentioning "the collection and use of data", "participation and drug testing in competitive sport" and "practices within the criminal justice system", key subjects of controversy for "gender critical" feminists. The EHRC also made a submission to the UK government's public consultation regarding LGBTQ+ conversion therapy on the same day, proposing that "consensual" efforts to change sexual orientation or gender identity should be excluded from any ban, stating that the terms "conversion therapy" and "transgender" were ill-defined, and making several arguments that have been described as associated with a "pro-conversion-therapy lobby".

The EHRC's letters were criticised by LGBTQ+ groups across the United Kingdom, including Stonewall, who said the statements "undermine EHRC's core purpose of regulating, promoting and upholding human rights" as well as calling for the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions to urgently review the EHRC; Liberty, who endorsed the call for the EHRC's status as a national human rights institution to be reviewed, as did UK Black Pride and the LGBT Foundation, who also announced that they would sever ties with the EHRC; Amnesty International UK, who described the statements as "actively damaging to the rights of trans and non-binary people in the UK" and "deeply troubling"; domestic-abuse and hate-crime support organisation Galop, who said that the statement "makes it clear that [the EHRC has] not understood the reality of conversion therapy in the UK"; and LGBT+ Labour, who also expressed concern at the "deeply harmful amendments" submitted by members of the Parliamentary Labour Party in their role as UK delegates to the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly. Other organisations criticising the EHRC's statements included Equality Network, UK umbrella organisation Consortium, the British LGBT Awards, LGBTQ+ youth charity akt, the Rainbow Project, Rainbow Greens, Trans in the City, the Feminist Gender Equality Network, Gendered Intelligence, Mermaids, Stonewall Housing, Pride Cymru, and Manchester Pride.

Further allegations of transphobia
In February 2022, three whistleblowers – still working at the EHRC – told VICE about an "anti-LGBT" culture being adopted by senior leaders at the organisation which they said was causing non-executive staff to quit. Additionally, six senior staff members – who had either recently left the EHRC or were currently working their notice period – described board members changing their work to make documents "transphobic and seriously inaccurate". When some employees complained, they were locked out of laptops and disciplinary action was taken against them. Scottish National Party MP John Nicolson, Depute Chair of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Global LGBT+ Rights in the UK Parliament, said: "Sadly the EHRC appears now to be working against, not for, LGBT rights. Our community no longer see it as our friend but as our opponent. It's yet another organisation tainted by Boris Johnson and his appointees."

The same month, VICE also reported that Falkner was in favour of excluding transgender people from "single-sex spaces" in workplaces and businesses, including bathrooms which match their gender identity. Conservative MP Crispin Blunt, chair of a UK Parliament oversight group for LGBTQ rights, described the EHRC's work as a "direct assault" on the rights of trans people in the UK. In response, an EHRC spokesperson said: "We acknowledge that some EHRC staff have been unhappy, which we regret, and we are working hard to explain decisions and why they are in line with our statutory responsibilities. Sex and gender reassignment are legally protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010, as are seven other characteristics. The Human Rights Act 1998 protects all rights in a balanced and proportionate way. These are the laws that the EHRC upholds impartially and we totally refute your insinuations of bias in the areas you mention."