[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Russians in Korea

f the Orthodox Community of South Korea unanimously decided to request to come under the jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople. The Ecumenical Patriarchate accepted the request and, since then, the Korean Orthodox Church has remained a metropolis of the See of Constantinople.

After the collapse of the communist regime in Russia and the Balkans in the 1990s, the first economic immigrants from Orthodox countries began to arrive in South Korea. Many of them, being strangers among strangers, were interested in finding an Orthodox church. From the beginning, they found refuge and support in the arms of the Korean Orthodox Church. The then Metropolitan Sotirios Trambas of Korea embraced them all with his love and paternal affection and slowly created the first nucleus of Slavic-speaking Orthodox faithful. He himself learned how to celebrate the Divine Liturgy in Slavonic and since 1992 in Seoul (in the chapel of the Dormition) or at the Monastery of the Transfiguration in Kapeong, where the pilgrims spent many weekend, he celebrated the Divine Liturgy for them. He also held special services for Slavic-speakers on Christmas Day and other Feast days with the old Calendar in order to give them a sense of familiarity and belonging. In 1995, during his historic first official visit to Korea, the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew laid the foundation stone of the chapel of Saint Maximus the Greek.

Since then the Orthodox Metropolis of Korea has undertaken the responsibility and pastoral care of all the Orthodox residing in the country as well as those who are temporary visitors and workers, such as sailors and entrepreneurs. In other words, all Orthodox believers of various nationalities (Koreans, Russians, Greeks, etc.) are “under the Omophorion,” or spiritual jurisdiction and care, of the Ecumenical Patriarch. In order to provide proper pastoral care to all Orthodox in Korea, apart from the Cathedral of St. Nicholas in Seoul, there is also the Chapel of St. Maximus the Greek, in which the Services and the Divine Liturgy are celebrated in Slavonic for Slavic-speakers, and occasionally in English for English speakers. Also, in the church of the Annunciation in the Busan, the chapel of Saint George is used for the celebration of the Divine Liturgy in Slavonic for Slavic-speakers who reside in and near Busan.

Russians in Pyongyang have sometimes been served by Orthodox clergy sent from Vladivostok since 2002. The Church of the Life-Giving Trinity in Pyongyang was dedicated in 2006. It was built at the order of Kim Jong-il after his visit to the church of Innocent of Irkutsk in Khabarovsk.

Notable people

 Denis Laktionov, football player
 Andrei Lankov, historian and journalist
 Park No-Ja, (formerly Vladimir Tikhonov), professor, author, columnist
 Timofey Lapshin, biathlon athlete
 Valeri Sarychev, football goalkeeper and coach
 Ruslan Bernikov, Hockey Player for Anyang Halla
 Sergei Tarasov, pianist and professor at Keimyung University in Daegu.
 Rushan Ziatdinov, professor at Keimyung University in Daegu.
 Oleg Shitin, pianist and professor at Keimyung University in Daegu.
 Andrei Grigorev, professor at Keimyung University in Daegu.
 Eduard De, professor at Keimyung University in Daegu.
 Gi Khan Ten, professor at Keimyung University in Daegu.
 Janna Ballod, professor at Seokyeong University in Seoul.

See also
Sakhalin Koreans
Korean Orthodox Church
Immigration to South Korea
Russians in Japan

References

Notes

Sources

Further reading

External links
 Russian Korea
 Russian Collection - University of Hawaii at Manoa Library
 Russian Cultural Center, Seoul
 Russia and North Korea

European diaspora in Korea
Korea
Korea–Russia relations
 
 
 
Korea–Soviet Union relations