[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Henry Larcom Abbot

alley of the Chagres for much of the way and the river would provide water for the operation of the locks. "[I]t may be said that the dominating element in deciding what type of canal should be adopted at the Isthmus of Panama is neither more nor less than this eccentric little river; and that the long years that have been devoted to its study have been well expended. They have made certainly known that all which is required is a judicious system of regulation by well understood engineering methods." (p. 54) Abbot was then professor of hydraulic engineering at George Washington University.
 Abbot, Henry L. Problems of the Panama Canal, Including Climatology of the Isthmus, Physics and Hydraulics of the River Chagres, Cut at the Continental Divide, and Discussion of Plants for the Waterway, with History from 1890 to Date. 2d ed. New York: Macmillan, 1907. "It has seemed desirable to extend this new edition [of the 1905 work] to cover the progress of events since the transfer of the work to the United States . . . . This has been accomplished by adding a new chapter to the historical portion of the book; by explaining and discussing . . . the new projects resulting from the studies of the Board of Consulting Engineers . . . and by introducing recent and valuable climatological and hydraulic data . . . ." (p. vii)
 Abbot, Henry L. "Rainfall and Outflow Above Bohio, in the Valley of the Chagres." Monthly Weather Review 35 (February 1907): 74–75. Update of Abbot's articles of June 1900 and February 1904.
 Abbot, Henry L. "The Preparatory Period, Panama Canal." Harvard Engineering Journal 6 (June 1907):1-10. Much preliminary work needed before "making the dirt fly," as demanded by the impatient American public. Discusses the Isthmian Canal Commission, Panama Railroad, Board of Consulting Engineers, congressional legislation, reorganization of the canal's administrative system, accomplishments of Dr. William C. Gorgas, flooding, rainfall, and work at Gatun and the Culebra Cut.
 Abbot, Henry L. "Present Status of the Panama Project." Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 31 (January 1908):12-35. Discusses lack of danger from earthquakes, the need to study the Chagres River, climate, Gorgas' success in improving health conditions, lock construction, water supply, and the government of the Canal Zone. "In fine, an era of rapid progress has been inaugurated under an efficient organization, with every promise of success, and the expenditures have been kept within reasonable limits." (p. 35).
 Abbot, Henry L. Hydraulics of the Chagres River." Engineering Magazine 39 (June 1910): 377–84. "In projecting a canal across the Isthmus of Panama, the dominating element is not the volume of excavation at the Continental Divide, but rather the hydraulics of the Chagres River whose valley must be traversed throughout the greater part of the route." (p. 377)
 Abbot, Henry L. "Hydrology of the Isthmus of Panama." In Professional Memoirs, Corps of Engineers, United States Army, and Engineer Department at Large 7 (November–December 1915): 657–62. "The Panama Canal being now opened to traffic, there remains for study only one important hydraulic problem—the sufficiency of the available water supply to meet the needs for lockage, for mechanical power to operate the canal and railroad, and for the electric lighting of the Canal Zone." (p. 657). See also Caleb Mills Saville, "Hydrology of the Panama Canal." Transactions of the Society of Civil Engineers 76 (1913): 985–987, "With Discussions by Henry L. Abbot and W. E. Fuller."

Notes

References
 Abbot, Charles Greeley 'Biographical Memoir of Henry Larcom Abbot, 1831–1927'. National Academy of Sciences, 1929. Retrieved June 1, 2011.
 'Book of Members, 1780-2010: Chapter A'. American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Retrieved March 18, 2011.
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Farquhar, Francis P. Place Names of the High Sierra'. San Francisco: Sierra Club, 1926. Retrieved February 15, 2009.

External links 

 Henry Larcom Abbot Papers at Houghton Library, Harvard University
 Article on Abbot and Humphreys
 
 National Academy of Sciences Biographical Memoir 
 

1831 births
1927 deaths
Burials at Mount Auburn Cemetery
United States Military Academy alumni
United States Army officers
American civil engineers
Union Army colonels
Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences
Union Army generals
People from Beverly, Massachusetts
People of Massachusetts in the American Civil War