[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Srebrenica Genocide Memorial

former Yugoslavia, also attended. On 12 July 2007, a day after the 12th anniversary of the massacre and the burial of a further 465 victims, a group of men dressed in Chetnik uniforms marched the streets of Srebrenica. They all wore badges of military units which committed the massacre in July 1995.

On 11 July 2009, marking the 14th anniversary, some 40,000 Bosniak mourners, a number of western diplomats, and civic associations from across the region attended the burial ceremony on Saturday for 534 newly identified victims. Among the victims were 44 teenagers. No Bosnian Serb high-level officials were present at the ceremony. Ethnically related incidents such as graffiti containing threats on a mosque and the vandalism of Bosnia and Herzegovina's national flag torn from the Bratunac town-hall building occurred. Members of the Ravna Gora Chetnik movement desecrated the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, marched in the streets wearing T-shirts with the face of Ratko Mladić and sang Chetnik songs. A group of men and women associated with Obraz "chanted insults directed towards the victims and in support of the Chetnik movement, calling for eradication of Islam". A full report of the incident was submitted to the local District Prosecutor's Office but no one has been prosecuted. Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a law banning fascist organizations and similar groups and the police there considered it "freedom of association".

On 11 July 2010, the 15th anniversary of the massacre, 775 coffins of Bosnian Muslims and Croats were buried, including one Roman Catholic Bosnian Croat. Serbian President Boris Tadić attended the ceremony. 

On 17 November 2012, various war veteran groups from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, and Croatia visited the memorial and paid tribute.

Collective burials have also been annually held since 2012, the same as before; the twenty-second one is the last to date, on 11 July 2017 when remains of 71 newly identified victims were buried at the Memorial Center.

Gallery

See also

 Bosnian War
 Bosnian genocide
 Bosnian genocide denial
 Srebrenica massacre
 Srebrenica
 Potočari
 Mullivaikal Muttram

References

External links

  
 Srebrenica360.com 
 Partial list of child victims of the Srebrenica massacre

2003 establishments in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Monuments and memorials in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Cemeteries in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bosnian War
History of Republika Srpska
Srebrenica massacre
Monuments and memorials by commemoration