[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zechariah Chafee

Zechariah Chafee Jr. (December 7, 1885 – February 8, 1957) was an American judicial philosopher and civil rights advocate, described as "possibly the most important First Amendment scholar of the first half of the twentieth century" by Richard Primus. Chafee's avid defense of freedom of speech led to Senator Joseph McCarthy calling him "dangerous" to America.

Biography

Chafee was born in Providence, Rhode Island, and graduated from Brown University, where he was a member of Alpha Delta Phi, in 1907. Later, he received a law degree from Harvard University, completing his LL.B. in 1913. He was influenced by the theories of sociological Jurisprudence presented by Roscoe Pound and others at Harvard. He met Harold J. Laski, a political scientist and the later Chairman of the British Labour Party, who became a lifelong friend. He practiced at the law firm of Tillinghast & Collins from 1913–1916. Chafee joined Harvard Law School as an assistant professor at Harvard Law School in 1916, and was promoted to full professor in 1919. He was appointed Langdell Professor of Law in 1938 and university professor in 1950. He remained at Harvard Law School until 1956.

Chafee was also an authority on equity, interpleader, negotiable instruments, and unfair business competition. In 1936, Chafee drafted the Federal Interpleader Act of 1936 (); he considered this his foremost professional accomplishment. He became an expert on congressional apportionment and helped apportion seats in the United States House of Representatives based on the 1930, 1940 and 1950 censuses.

In 1920, he was one of twelve lawyers reporting on illegal activities of the Department of Justice.

Chafee nearly lost his job in 1921. He was brought before the Harvard Board of Overseers on a charge of radicalism for his questioning of the sentence handed down in Abrams v. United States . He defended himself eloquently before a special committee in the Harvard Club of Boston and was allowed to remain at the law school.

From 1929 to 1931, Chafee was a consultant to the National Commission on Law Observance and Enforcement ( the Wickersham Commission)  for which he co-authored a report on lawlessness in law enforcement in 1931.

He was Lowell Television Lecturer for the  1956-1957 academic year and finished a 16 lecture television series "The Constitution and Human Rights",  an adaptation of a general education course he developed here in 1950, on Boston's educational Channel, WGBH just before he died.

Chafee received the following honorary degrees: Doctor of Law from St. John's University, in 1936, Brown University in 1937, and the University of Chicago in 1953; Doctor of Civil Law from Boston University in 1941; and Doctor of Letters from Colby College in 1944.

He was a Fellow at Brown University, and a member of the American Philosophical Society, the American Bar Association, the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Massachusetts Historical Society, Alpha Delta Phi, Phi Beta Kappa, the Harvard Club of Boston, the Tavern Club (of Boston), and the Century Association).

Civil liberties
Chafee wrote several works about civil liberties, including:
 Free Speech (1920)
 Free Speech in the United States, 1941 (expanded edition of Freedom of Speech)
 Government and Mass Communications, 1947
 The Blessings of Liberty, 1956

Chafee's first significant work (Freedom of Speech) established modern First Amendment theory. Inspired by the United States' suppression of radical speech and ideas during the First World War, Chafee edited and updated a collection of several of his journal articles. In these individual articles-cum-chapters, he assessed significant World War I cases, including those of Emma Goldman.

He revised and reissued this work in 1941 as Free Speech in the United States, which became a leading treatise on First Amendment law.  His scholarship on civil liberties was a major influence on Oliver Wendell Holmes's and Louis Brandeis's post-World War I jurisprudence, which first established the First Amendment as a significant source of civil liberties. Chafee met with Justice Holmes after the Schenck case , which upheld a conviction of an activist who encouraged draft resistance, and convinced him that free speech needed greater consideration. Shortly thereafter, Holmes joined Brandeis in a dissent in another World War I dissent case; this dissent is recognized as the foundation of modern First Amendment jurisprudence.