[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Volunteer Day

of time-bound targets to combat poverty, hunger, disease, health, environmental degradation and gender equality. [1]

International Volunteer Day (IVD) celebrates active volunteers and attracts new volunteers in the North and in the South, with a special focus on promoting South-South cooperation. 

The organization of International Volunteer Day is generally the result of a partnership between the UN system, governments, volunteer-involving organizations and committed individuals. Representatives from the media or academia, foundations, the private sector, faith groups, and sports and recreational organizations are often involved too.

The General Assembly invited Governments to observe annually, on 5 December, the International Volunteer Day for Economic and Social Development (resolution 40/212 of 17 December 1985) and urged them to take measures to heighten awareness of the important contribution of volunteer service, thereby stimulating more people in all walks of life to offer their services as volunteers, both at home and abroad.

The United Nations General Assembly, in its resolution 52/17 of 20 November 1997, proclaimed 2001 as the International Year of Volunteers (IYV). The year was conceived to further the recognition of volunteers, facilitate their work, create a communication network and promote the benefits of voluntary service.

In 2001, the International Year of Volunteers, the General Assembly adopted a set of recommendations on ways in which Governments and the United Nations system could support volunteering and asked that they be given wide dissemination (resolution 56/38 of 5 December 2001).

The United Nations General Assembly, in its resolution 57/106 of 22 November 2002, called upon the United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme to ensure that the potential of International Volunteer Day is fully realized.

On 18 December 2008, the General Assembly decided that on or around 5 December 2011, two plenary meetings of the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly should be devoted to the follow-up to the International Year of Volunteers and the commemoration of its tenth anniversary (resolution 63/153).

Online Volunteering Award

Traditionally, on International Volunteer Day (5 December), UNV calls for nominations and launches the UNV Online Volunteering Award.  A jury made up of UNV representatives and external experts in volunteerism and development cooperation review the nominations and selects the winners. 

The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme invites citizens worldwide to be inspired by the winner's stories and participate in the global voting for their favorite winner. The team that gets the most votes is announced as the public's favorite on the International Day of Happiness.

The purpose of the award is to recognize online volunteers’ contributions towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, to showcase the many ways in which online volunteers can strengthen the capacities of organizations, and demonstrate the difference volunteers can make to peace and development projects by sharing their time, skills and expertise over the Internet.

See also
Association for Volunteer Administration
Association of Leaders in Volunteer Engagement
Global Youth Service Day
Good Deeds Day
International Year of Volunteers
Join Hands Day
List of awards for volunteerism and community service
Make A Difference Day
Mandela Day
Mitzvah Day
MLK Day of service
 National Philanthropy Day (USA and Canada)
National Public Lands Day (USA)
NetDay
Peace Day
Random Acts of Kindness Day
September 11 National Day of Service (9/11 Day)
Sewa Day
Subbotnik Day
United Nations Volunteer
World Humanitarian Day
World Kindness Day

References

External links

International Volunteer Day webpage
United Nations System Calendar of Media Events

Volunteers, International Day for
December observances
Volunteering