[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Green (general)

achment at Stirling's Plantation. A similar success followed in November at the Battle of Bayou Bourbeux. In four victories, Green's men inflicted about 3,000 casualties and suffered only 600 losses. Green was subsequently assigned command of the cavalry division of the Trans-Mississippi Department.

Red River Campaign
During the Red River Campaign, Green led his division of cavalry from Texas to reinforce Taylor in Louisiana to stop the advance of Maj. Gen. Nathaniel P. Banks toward Shreveport.  Green participated in the Battle of Mansfield and the Battle of Pleasant Hill. A few days later, on April 12, 1864, Green was mortally wounded by a shell from a Federal gunboat while leading an attack on the gunboats patrolling the Red River at Blair’s Landing. He soon died on Blair's Plantation. Upon his death, Union Admiral David Dixon Porter paid tribute to the fallen Confederate cavalryman in saying that Green was "one in whom the rebels place more confidence than anyone else. He led his men to the very edge of the bank, they shouting and yelling like madmen—losing General Green had paralyzed them; he was worth 5,000 men to them." He is buried in the family plot at Oakwood Cemetery in Austin, Texas.

Memorials
 Tom Green Street in Brenham, Texas is named for Green
 Tom Green County, Texas (1875) is named for Green
 USS Tom Green County (1953–1972) was indirectly named for Green.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

References

Further reading
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 United States War Department, The Military Secretary's Office, Memorandum relative to the general officers appointed by the President in the armies of the Confederate States--1861-1865 (1908) (Compiled from official records) Caption shows 1905 but printing date is February 11, 1908. Retrieved August 5, 2010.

External links
 

American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
1814 births
1864 deaths
Confederate States of America military personnel killed in the American Civil War
Burials at Oakwood Cemetery (Austin, Texas)
Republic of Texas politicians
1st Congress of the Republic of Texas
People from Amelia County, Virginia
People from Buckingham County, Virginia
People of Texas in the American Civil War
University of Tennessee alumni
Tom Green County, Texas