[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Netherlands in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006

the deadline: 82 for Maud, 47 for Behave and 45 for Treble. Each of the artists selected three songs for the competition, two of them being self-provided and one of them from the open submissions in consultation with NOS and their record companies. The nine songs were announced on 15 February 2006.

Final 
The final took place on 12 March 2006. In the first round, each of the three acts performed their three candidate Eurovision songs and the votes of a nine-member expert jury selected one song per artist to proceed to the superfinal. In the superfinal, the winner, "Amambanda" performed by Treble, was selected exclusively by a public televote. Approximately 126,000 votes were cast by the public in the superfinal. In addition to the performances of the competing entries, the show featured a guest performance by the Greek dance group Evropi.

Promotion 
Treble specifically promoted "Amambanda" as the Dutch Eurovision entry by taking part in a six-week promotional tour where they performed at live events, radio shows and talk shows across Europe between March and May.

At Eurovision 
According to Eurovision rules, all nations with the exceptions of the host country, the "Big Four" (France, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom) and the ten highest placed finishers in the 2005 contest are required to qualify from the semi-final on 18 May 2006 in order to compete for the final on 20 May 2006; the top ten countries from the semi-final progress to the final. On 21 March 2006, a special allocation draw was held which determined the running order for the semi-final and the Netherlands was set to perform in position 17, following the entry from Finland and before the entry from Lithuania.

The semi-final and the final was broadcast in the Netherlands on Nederland 2 with commentary by Cornald Maas and Paul de Leeuw as well as via radio on Radio 2 with commentary by Ron Stoeltie. The Dutch spokesperson, who announced the Dutch votes during the final, was Paul de Leeuw.

Voting 
Below is a breakdown of points awarded to the Netherlands and awarded by the Netherlands in the semi-final and grand final of the contest. The nation awarded its 12 points to Armenia in the semi-final and to Turkey in the final of the contest.

Points awarded to the Netherlands

Points awarded by the Netherlands

References

2006
Countries in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006
Eurovision