[Source: PubMed]

50. BMC Pregnancy Childbirth. 2018 Oct 11;18(1):396. doi:
10.1186/s12884-018-2037-1.

Maternal mortality in the Gaza strip: a look at causes and solutions.

Bӧttcher B(1), Abu-El-Noor N(2), Aldabbour B(3), Naim FN(3), Aljeesh Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Islamic University of Gaza, P. O. Box 108, Gaza strip, 
Gaza, Palestine. Bettina.bottcher@yahoo.co.uk.
(2)Faculty of Nursing, Islamic University of Gaza, P. O. Box 108, Gaza Strip, 
Gaza, Palestine.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Islamic University of Gaza, P. O. Box 108, Gaza strip, 
Gaza, Palestine.

BACKGROUND: Maternal mortality is an important health indicator for the overall 
health of a population. This study assessed the causes and contributing factors 
to maternal mortality that occurred in the Gaza-Strip between July 2014 and June 
2015.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study that used both quantitative and 
qualitative data. The data were collected from available medical records, 
investigation reports, death certificates, and field interviews with healthcare 
professionals as well as families.
RESULTS: A total of 18 maternal mortalities occurred in Gaza between 1st July 
2014 and June 30th 2015. Age at time of death ranged from 18 to 44 years, with 
44.4% occurring before the age of 35 years. About 22.2% were primiparous, while 
55.6% were grand multiparous women. The most common causes of death were sepsis, 
postpartum haemorrhage, and pulmonary embolism. The most striking deficiency was 
very poor medical documentation which was observed in 17 cases (94%). In 
addition, poor communication between doctors and women and their families or 
among healthcare teams was noticed in nine cases (50%). These were repeatedly 
described by families during interviews. Further aspects surfacing in many 
interviews were distrust by families towards clinicians and poor understanding 
of health conditions by women. Other factors included socioeconomic conditions, 
poor antenatal attendance and the impact of the 2014 war. Low morale among 
medical staff was expressed by most interviewed clinicians, as well as the fear 
of being blamed by families and management in case of adverse events. 
Substandard care and lack of appropriate supervision were also found in some 
cases.
CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed deficiencies in maternity care, some of which 
were linked to the socioeconomic situation and the 2014 war. Others show poor 
implementation of clinical guidelines and lack of professional skills in 
communication and teamwork. Specialised training should be offered for 
clinicians in order to improve these aspects. However, the most striking 
deficiency was the extremely poor documentation, reflecting a lack of awareness 
among clinicians regarding its importance. Local policymakers should focus on 
systematic application of quality improvement strategies in order to achieve 
greater patient safety and further reductions in the maternal mortality rate.

DOI: 10.1186/s12884-018-2037-1
PMCID: PMC6180491
PMID: 30305058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: No 
Institutional Review Board (IRB) exists at the Palestinian Ministry of Health 
(MoH) in the Gaza-Strip, which retains jurisdiction over providing approvals for 
access to medical records and medical databases owned by each individual 
hospital. The authorized body to provide approvals for studies that involve 
secondary health data as well as collection and analysis of primary data from 
both healthcare providers and patients is provided by the Human Resources 
Department at the MoH in the Gaza-Strip. Therefore, ethical approval for this 
study was obtained from the Human Resources Department at the MoH in the 
Gaza-Strip, which issues ethical and administrative approvals for studies 
involving patients and their families. The approvals were then presented to the 
administrative bodies of the local hospitals in the Gaza-Strip, which in turn 
gave their approval and provided the research team with access to medical 
records housed by the individual hospitals and the available contact information 
for the families of deceased women who were identified to be part of the 
potential sample for this study. The procedure, followed in Gaza at the time of 
this study, did not require approval by relatives to view the medical 
documentation of the deceased women. The hospitals included in this study were 
Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza-City, Shuhada Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir Al-Balah, 
Nasser Hopsital in Khan Younis, Al-Helal Al-Emirati Hospital in Rafah and 
Al-Awda Hospital in Jabalia Refugee Camp, which was the only private hospital. 
All approvals for this study had been obtained prior to data collection. In 
addition, and before conducting the interviews with family members or healthcare 
providers, written consent was obtained from those who were interviewed in 
person, whereas verbal consent was obtained from participants who were 
interviewed over the phone due to family preference. This had been agreed to by 
the Human Resources Department of the MoH. Prior to obtaining consent, the aims 
of the study were explained to the participants, and they were informed that 
they had the right to refuse participation in the study, or to withdraw at any 
time without being penalized. The collected data were kept under high 
confidentiality and anonymity as each case was assigned a code number. The 
women’s confidentiality was preserved throughout the study. It was explained to 
participants that the data collected might be published after having been 
analysed at the aggregate level. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: All patients’ data 
were kept strictly confidential and anonymity was preserved throughout the 
research process. Consent for publication was obtained from the interviewees and 
the Human Resources Department at the Ministry of Health. COMPETING INTERESTS: 
The authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.