[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Federation for Systems Research

/ Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science, PRC
 Sociedad Espanola de Sistemas Generales, ES
 Slovenian Society for Systems Research, SL
 The Oroborus Foundation, CH
 Laboratoire Théorie des systèmes en architecture (tsa-lab), BE
 UK Systems Society, UK
 WCSA - World Complexity Science Academy, IT

Journal, book series, and newsletter 
 Systems Research and Behavioral Science
The IFSR Journal of Systems Research was established in 1984 but was merged with the International Society for the Systems Sciences's Journal of Behavioural Science in 1997, forming the Journal of Systems Research and Behavioural Science. The Journal aims to stimulate disciplined inquiry and provides transdisciplinary focus for the exchange of ideas and knowledge; relating to the analysis, design, development, and management of systems and programs. The journal (ISSN 1092-7026), is edited by Michael C. Jackson and is published six times a year.
 International Series on Systems Science and Engineering
This IFSR Book Series provides a publication avenue for high quality systems literature. George Mobus (University of Washington at Tacoma) is the current Editor-in-Chief (see   Editor-in-Chief and Editorial Board) of the book series. Until 2016, George Klir (State University New York City, Springer Publishing) was the editor. At the time, the editorial board for the IFSR International book series included:
 Gerrit Broekstra, Nyenrode University, The Netherlands Business School, Netherlands
 John L. Casti, Santa Fe Institute, NM, USA
 Brian R. Gaines, Dept. of Computer Science, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada
 Ivan M. Havel, Center for Theoretical Study, Charles University, Czech Republic
 Klaus Kornwachs, Brandenburgische Technische Universität Cottbus, Germany
 Franz Pichler, Institute of Systems Science, Johannes Kepler University of Linz, Austria
 IFSR Newsletter
The IFSR Newsletter is the informal newsletter of the IFSR (hard copy: ISSN 1818-0809, online: ISSN 1818-0817), published once or twice a year since 1981, edited by Paul F de. P. Hanika (1981–1985), Robert Trappl (1985), Steven Sokoloff (1986 – 1994), Gerhard Chroust (1993–2018) and Louis Klein (2019-present). The newsletter informs member societies about new academic work, updates on fellow member societies and prominent scientists, updates on past systems conferences and plans for future conferences. Back issues of newsletters are available on the IFSR.org web site.

IFSR Conversations 
The Conversations, initially held in Fuschl near Salzburg, Austria, were established by the IFSR in 1980 and are held biennially. The Conversations convene approximately 30 - 40 systems scientists from around the world to discuss systemic issues and develop understanding relevant for society and its environment. The last IFSR Conversation was held in 2016 in St. Magdalena, Linz, Austria.  Work is currently underway, post pandemic, in planning alternative formats IFSR Conversation.

The Conversations were established primarily under the guidance of Bela H. Banathy, as an alternative to traditional conferences. A number of systems professionals found that they were disillusioned with a format in which the majority of the time was spent on papers being read or presented to passive listeners, with minimal time for discussion and interaction about the ideas. As described by Bela, they were to be:

 a collectively guided disciplined inquiry,
 an exploration of issues of social/societal significance,
 engaged by scholarly practitioners in self-organized teams,
 on a theme for their conversation selected by participants,
 initiated in the course of a preparation phase that leads to an intensive learning phase.

"Conversations were introduced by Bela H. Banathy around 1980 as an alternative to the classical conferences which usually consist only of presentation of streamlined papers and short question slots. In a Conversation a small group of systems scientists and practitioners meets for several days to discuss in a self-guided way a topic of scientific and social importance. A Conversations is preceded by an intensive off-line preparation phase (including exchanges of ‘input papers’), followed by the face-to-face discussion at the Conversation and followed by a post-conversation consolidation period. No papers are presented during the conversation, the participants discuss face-to-face their topic, often modifying it in the course of the conversation."