[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tennessee Democratic Party

e Import Deterrence Act, Grand Canyon Water Sheds Protection Act, Nonnative Wildlife Invasion Prevention Act, the Northern Rockies Ecosystem Protection Act, the Safe Markets Development Act, the Retrofit for Energy and Environmental Performance Program Act, and the America's Red Rock Wilderness Act.

National security
Tennessee Democrats believe in a strong national defense supported by necessary resources. National security policies that Tennessee Democrats have approved of include, the Panel on Defense and Acquisition Reform, which has investigated budget overruns in weapons procurement. This work helped to enact the Weapons Acquisition Reform Act of 2009. Tennessee Democrats support the National Urban Search and Rescue System Act. This act combines the authorization of the National Urban Search and Rescue program and put its authority in one section of the Stafford Act. Doing so would help to make sure that Urban Search and Rescue can efficiently respond to a wide range of national disasters. The bill provides Urban Search and Rescue Task Force members with uniform workers compensation and tort liability protection under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act.

Transportation
Tennessee Democrats supported the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Others include the American Coastal Waters and Shorelines Protection Act, which would ban foreign vessels from oil drilling activities in American coastal waters. The Critical Infrastructure Earthquake Preparedness Act directs the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to create a grant program that will improve the ability of trauma center hospitals and airports to withstand earthquakes.

Education
Since the end of World War II, education has been a top priority for Tennessee state government. Education is typically the highest priority of candidates in legislative races. Decisions on education at the state level affect more people, create more emotion, and have greater long term political consequences. Education in Tennessee (including pension and health care benefits) is the largest segment of the state budget.

Officials

Members of Congress
The Tennessee Democratic Party holds one of the state's nine U.S. House of Representatives seats.

Statewide offices
 None

Legislative leaders
 Senate Minority Leader: Raumesh Akbari
 Minority Caucus Chair: London Lamar
 House Minority Leader: Karen Camper
 Assistant House Minority Leader: Harold M. Love Jr.
 Minority Caucus Chair: John Ray Clemmons
 Minority Caucus Vice Chair: Bob Freeman 
 House Minority Whip: Jason Powell
 Minority Floor Leader: Bill Beck 
 Minority Caucus Secretary: Ronnie Glynn
 Minority Caucus Treasurer:  Gloria Johnson

Party leadership
 Chair – Hendrell Remus
 Vice Chair – Rachel Campbell
 Treasurer – Carol V. Abney
 Secretary – Pamela Weston
 Senate Caucus - Raumesh Akbari
 House Caucus - John Ray Clemmons

Footnotes

External links
 

 
Democratic Party (United States) by state
Democratic Party
1826 establishments in Tennessee