[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Philip Collier

opposed secession, Collier nonetheless agreed to act on the result of the referendum by petitioning the British government for secession.  The British government's refusal to act can be partly attributed to the fact that any action taken would have been in opposition to the new Government's wishes.

During Collier's time as premier, much was done to foster rural development. Construction of bridges, roads, and railways was accelerated, water supply in areas of agriculture was increased, and an Agricultural bank was set up, which provided generous loans to farmers. In addition, both the annual wheat harvest and the area under crop more than doubled, workers' compensation benefits and entitlements were increased, and industrial safety requirements were made more stringent. A state basic wage award was also introduced, together with regulations on the working conditions of timber workers, coal miners, and employees in other designated industries. In addition, although the Legislative Council rejected the introduction of a 44-hour workweek and preference to unionists, the Collier government was able to introduce both measures for most of its own employees through the use of administrative action.

Collier resigned as premier and leader of the Labor party on 19 August 1936, handing over to John Willcock. His 19-year term as parliamentary leader of the Australian Labor Party remains the longest ever, as does his 9-year term as Labor premier. Victor Courtney (1956) describes him as "the only person Labor [sic] produced in State politics who could fairly claim to have approached statesmanship". Mitchell and Collier are together credited with achieving an unusual degree of friendship and cooperation between parties during the 1920s and 1930s, which was most clearly demonstrated by Collier recommending Mitchell's appointment as Lieutenant-Governor in 1933.

Although no longer serving as a minister, Collier remained in parliament for a further twelve years, and was Father of the House from March 1939.  He died at Mount Lawley on 18 October 1948, and was buried in Karrakatta Cemetery. Collier Road in the north-eastern suburbs of Perth is named after Collier.

Notes

References

 Ross McMullin, The Light on the Hill: The Australian Labor Party 1891-1991

Further reading
The following sources were not used in the writing of this article:
 

1873 births
1948 deaths
Burials at Karrakatta Cemetery
Leaders of the Opposition in Western Australia
Members of the Western Australian Legislative Assembly
People from Victoria (state)
Premiers of Western Australia
Treasurers of Western Australia
Australian miners
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Western Australia
Australian trade unionists
People from the City of Whittlesea