[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Outline of biology

onditions.
 Helminthology – study of worms, especially parasitic worms.
 Herpetology – study of amphibians (including frogs, toads, salamanders, newts, and gymnophiona) and reptiles (including snakes, lizards, amphisbaenids, turtles, terrapins, tortoises, crocodilians, and the tuataras).
 Batrachology – subdiscipline of herpetology concerned with the study of amphibians alone.
 Ichthyology – study of fishes. This includes bony fishes (Osteichthyes), cartilaginous fishes (Chondrichthyes), and jawless fishes (Agnatha).
 Malacology – branch of invertebrate zoology which deals with the study of the Mollusca (mollusks or molluscs), the second-largest phylum of animals in terms of described species after the arthropods.
Teuthology – branch of Malacology which deals with the study of cephalopods.
 Mammalogy – study of mammals, a class of vertebrates with characteristics such as homeothermic metabolism, fur, four-chambered hearts, and complex nervous systems. Mammalogy has also been known as "mastology," "theriology," and "therology." There are about 4,200 different species of animals which are considered mammals.
 Cetology – branch of marine mammal science that studies the approximately eighty species of whales, dolphins, and porpoise in the scientific order Cetacea.
 Primatology – scientific study of primates
 Human biology – interdisciplinary field studying the range of humans and human populations via biology/life sciences, anthropology/social sciences, applied/medical sciences
 Biological anthropology – subfield of anthropology that studies the physical morphology, genetics and behavior of the human genus, other hominins and hominids across their evolutionary development
 Human behavioral ecology – the study of behavioral adaptations (foraging, reproduction, ontogeny) from the evolutionary and ecologic perspectives (see behavioral ecology). It focuses on human adaptive responses (physiological, developmental, genetic) to environmental stresses.
 Nematology – scientific discipline concerned with the study of nematodes, or roundworms.
 Ornithology – scientific study of birds.

Biologists 

 Lists of notable biologists
 List of notable biologists
 List of Nobel Prize winners in physiology or medicine
 Lists of biologists by author abbreviation
 List of authors of names published under the ICZN

 Lists of biologists by subject

 List of biochemists
 List of ecologists
 List of neuroscientists
 List of physiologists

See also

 Bibliography of biology
 Earliest known life forms
 Invasion biology terminology
 List of omics topics in biology

Related outlines
 Outline of life forms
 Outline of zoology
 Outline of engineering
 Outline of technology
 List of social sciences

Journals
 Biology journals

References

External links

OSU's Phylocode
The Tree of Life: A multi-authored, distributed Internet project containing information about phylogeny and biodiversity.
MIT video lecture series on biology
A wiki site for protocol sharing run from MIT.
Biology and Bioethics.
Biology online wiki dictionary.
Biology Video Sharing Community.
What is Biotechnology  : a voluntary program as Biotech for Beginners.

Biology
Biology