[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Murders of Channon Christian and Christopher Newsom

e supremacists, led by Alex Linder, rallied in downtown Knoxville to protest against the murders. They were met by more than 300 law enforcement officers. About twice as many counter-protesters as protestors attended, including the "Coup Clutz Clowns", an activist group which mocks the Ku Klux Klan.

After the protest, columnist Leonard Pitts dismissed claims that the crime was under-reported. He cited a 2001 report by the Berkeley Media Studies Group, which found that "Blacks and Latinos are underrepresented in news media as victims of crime and significantly overrepresented as perpetrators." Pitts wrote: "I am [...] unkindly disposed toward the crackpots, incendiaries and flat-out racists who have chosen this tragedy upon which to take an obscene and ludicrous stand."

Rev. Ezra Maize, the president of the Knoxville chapter of the NAACP, addressed the case, saying:

It doesn't make me uncomfortable speaking out against this crime because it was African Americans [allegedly] committing a crime against Caucasians ... It's not a black-and-white issue. It's a right-and-wrong issue. Those who committed this crime were unjust in doing so, and they should pay the penalty.

The house at 2316 Chipman Street was bought by Waste Connections, a national garbage collection company with a depot on the next lot. Waste Connections demolished the house in October 2008. The company's intent was to replace the house with a memorial dedicated to Newsom and Christian. A memorial to Newsom and Christian was created at the location where the house once stood.

Legacy
The Channon Gail Christian Foundation and the Channon Gail Christian Memorial Golf Tournament were established in Channon Christian's memory to provide a scholarship for a Farragut High School Senior to attend the University of Tennessee. A foundation has also been established in Newsom's name. The foundation holds an annual memorial baseball tournament at the Halls Community Park. A memorial scholarship is given annually in his name to a graduating Halls High School baseball player.

Channon Christian's father, Gary Christian, speaks at churches proclaiming how, in Spring 2017, he asked God to restore him from his pervasive anger. He presents testimony of how he is overcoming the anger that most East Tennesseans saw played out during news articles throughout the trials and appeals.

Legislative changes
Thanks to lobbying from the families of the victims, two new laws were introduced in 2014 as a result of the case: 

The Chris Newsom Act was introduced to eliminate the need for a judge's signature on a jury verdict after the delivery of a unanimous verdict. This thus eliminates the '13th juror' rule, which stipulates that a judge must validate a jury's verdict. Had such a law been in place during the case, the retrials would have been avoided.

The Channon Christian Act restricts attorneys and defendants in attempting to portray a victim in a negative light, such as making allegations about their behavior. During the trial, Davidson had alleged that his victims had come to his house to buy drugs. According to Christian's mother, her family felt great pain as a result of listening to defense attorneys question Christian's character during multiple trials. Meanwhile, due to laws protecting the accused, the jury was not allowed to be informed of Davidson's previous carjacking conviction.

See also
List of kidnappings

References

External links
Extensive news coverage of the deaths in January 2007 of Channon Christian and Christopher Newsom in Knoxville, TN, Knoxville News Sentinel
Newsom, Christian Family Reaction w/Video
"5th Suspect Arrested in Double Murder, Announcement Expected Soon", Volunteer TV
 Martin, Roland S.,  "Commentary: Where is the outrage when humans are abused?", CNN
Withdraw Request for speedy trial , Volunteer TV
Victim's father: "One down, four to go" (extensive details of the crimes), knoxnews.com, April 16, 2008
Channon Gail Christian Foundation 

2007 in Tennessee
2007 murders in the United States
2000s kidnappings in the United States
Attacks in the United States in 2007
Crimes in Tennessee
Deaths by person in Tennessee
Gang rape in the United States
History of Knoxville, Tennessee
Incidents of violence against women
January 2007 crimes in the United States
Kidnappings in the United States
Motor vehicle theft
Murder in Tennessee
Race-related controversies in the United States
Rape in the 2000s
Rapes in the United States
Torture in the United States