[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006–2007 economic sanctions against the Palestinian National Authority

transactions with the PA were prohibited. The general prohibition on transactions, however, also caused difficulty in carrying out financial transaction with non-PA related individuals and entities, as financial institutions around the world took protective measures regarding the OFAC determination.

The US ceased providing both indirect and direct foreign aid to the PA with the exception of some emergency humanitarian assistance. The US said it would withhold $411 million in aid over the next few years and asked for the return of $30 million it had already donated. The CRS Report for Congress wrote on 27 June 2007: "With the suspension of all USAID-managed economic aid to the West Bank and Gaza Strip and the general prohibition on financial transactions by U.S. persons with the PA, the United States has tried to assuage fears that its policies are causing Palestinian suffering."

Impact
Although, despite the suspension of aid to the PA, aid to the Palestinian territories reportedly increased during 2006, poverty climbed sharply during the same period. According to Oxfam, this was because international aid did not compensate for the substantial loss of income created by the withholding of at least $475m of Palestinian tax and customs revenues by Israel. This accounted for around 50% of the PA's monthly income in 2005. Also, the aid came late, it did not generate income, and was less effective. Moreover, the boycott had helped trigger factional violence between Palestinians. Oxfam observed in 2006 dropping incomes, increased poverty, institutional collapse and economic decline. Media reports suggested that the humanitarian situation in the West Bank and Gaza Strip was worsening.

In February 2006, Quartet envoy James Wolfensohn warned that the Palestinian Authority was on the verge of economic collapse within two weeks time, because of the cessation of tax funds to the PA from Israel. In a letter to the US government, Wolfensohn warned that the economic situation could lead to violence. In his report of May 2006, Wolfensohn questioned the decision of Western powers to cut all but humanitarian aid to the Palestinians' Hamas-led government. He recalled that $1.3 billion a year was spent on assistance to the Palestinians and asked: "Will we now simply abandon these goals?"

From April–June 2006, the EU delivered $143 million in emergency assistance. The US provided $300 million in humanitarian and other aid to the Palestinians, intended to bypass the Hamas-led Government, $42 million of which "for promoting democratic alternatives to Hamas".

Temporary international mechanism
The World Bank warned a collapse of the Palestinian infrastructure would be hard to reverse. On 9 May 2006, the Quartet issued a new statement, in which it reiterated its grave concern that the PA government had so far failed to commit itself to the formulated principles. It noted that it had "inevitably impacted direct assistance to that government" and was deeply concerned about the consequences for the Palestinian people.

The Quartet announced an international mechanism to ensure direct delivery of assistance to the Palestinians. In conjunction with the World Bank, the Quartet attempted to find a way to provide some relief to the Palestinians without working with the Hamas-led government. The US softened its hardline position to prevent the PA from collapsing and agreed to a mechanism for indirect funding under pressure of EU and Russia. On 17 June 2006, the Quartet announced the establishment of a temporary international mechanism (TIM), to channel funding directly to Palestinians, while bypassing the Hamas-led PA government.

Changes after Hamas takeover of Gaza

Following Hamas' takeover of Gaza in June 2007, Israel and the United States announced plans to blockade the Gaza Strip.

At the same time, they lifted some of the sanctions on the West Bank, in order to support the Fatah government. On 16 June 2007, United States Consul-General Jacob Walles said that the US was planning to lift the ban on direct aid to the emergency government installed by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. Some Israeli officials said US$300 to $400 million in Palestinian tax revenues may be transferred to the PA, short of the $700 million Abbas was seeking. The Quartet voiced support for Abbas and concern for the humanitarian situation in Gaza, though they did not announce any change in the ban on direct aid.

A few days later, the US ended its 15-month economic and political boycott of the Ramallah-based PA, but the Hamas-led government in Gaza remained under sanction and blockade. The European Union similarly announced plans to resume direct aid to the Palestinians. On 25 June 2007, Israel agreed to transfer hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenues it had seized to Palestinian President Abbas.