[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Sherrod Brown

said she was "in fear for the safety and well-being of myself and our children due to [Brown's] physical violence and abusive nature" and that Brown had "intimidated, pushed, shoved and bullied" her on several occasions. Years later, Recchie walked back her claims of physical violence against Brown.

Recchie and Cleveland Plain Dealer columnist Connie Schultz later became friends and filmed an ad together for Brown's 2006 Senate campaign. Recchie hosted a fund-raising event for Brown's 2012 reelection campaign against Republican Josh Mandel and issued a statement saying, "I understand that in campaigns you often have to go after your opponent, but Josh Mandel should know better than to go after our family. I ask that he immediately put a stop to this kind of politics. I was proud to support Sherrod in 2006 and I'm proud to support him again this time around against Josh Mandel. Josh Mandel should immediately stop this kind of dirty campaigning."

In 2004, Brown married Schultz. She resigned from her job in 2011, because being a politician's spouse presented a conflict of interest. She won a Pulitzer Prize in 2005. She is also the author of Life Happens (2007) and ...and His Lovely Wife (2008), in which she describes her experiences as the spouse of a U.S. Senate candidate. He has two stepchildren from this marriage.

Brown's daughter Elizabeth was president pro tempore of the Columbus City Council and served on the council for seven years. He has five grandchildren. He is Lutheran.

Brown's brother, Charlie, is a former West Virginia attorney general.

On May 5, 2007, Brown was awarded an honorary doctorate from Capital University. On May 18, 2014, Brown was awarded an honorary doctor of public service degree from Otterbein University. Along with his wife, Brown delivered a keynote address at the undergraduate commencement.

In June 2023, NBC News reported that Brown had been late paying his Cleveland property tax bill seven times, most recently in February, and that for years he claimed owner-occupant tax credits on properties in two different Ohio counties. Brown subsequently paid the delinquent tax bill and repaid Franklin County for the tax credit. His campaign said he would not claim it in future years. In August 2023, Brown corrected several years of Senate financial disclosure forms that had previously omitted his wife's pension money.

Bibliography
Brown is the author of three books:

 Congress from the Inside: Observations from the Majority and the Minority, Kent State University Press, 2004, 
 Myths of Free Trade: Why American Trade Policy Has Failed, The New Press, 2006, 
 Desk 88: Eight Progressive Senators Who Changed America, Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 2019,

Electoral history

See also
Ohio United States Senate elections
List of United States senators from Ohio
Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act of 2011
Brown–Kaufman amendment
List of Eagle Scouts
2024 United States Senate election in Ohio

References

External links

Sherrod Brown official U.S. Senate website
Sherrod Brown for Senate 

Sherrod Brown columns at HuffPost
Collected news and commentary at the Cleveland Plain Dealer

 
1952 births
20th-century American politicians
21st-century American politicians
American educators
American Lutherans
Lutherans from Ohio
Democratic Party United States senators from Ohio
John Glenn College of Public Affairs alumni
Ohio State University faculty
Left-wing populists
Living people
Democratic Party members of the Ohio House of Representatives
Politicians from Mansfield, Ohio
Secretaries of State of Ohio
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Ohio
Writers from Ohio
Yale University alumni
Ohio State University College of Education and Human Ecology alumni