[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Iraq War order of battle, 2009

Below is an estimated list of the major units deployed within the Multi-National Force – Iraq and other United States military units that were operating in Iraq under the U.S. Central Command (USCENTCOM) in 2009, during the Iraq War.

In military science terminology, the description of the units involved in an operation is known as the order of battle (ORBAT). NATO and the U.S. Department of Defense define the order of battle as the identification, strength, command structure, and disposition of the personnel, units, and equipment of any military force.

From September 2008 to 31 December 2009, the overall military commander in Iraq was General Raymond T. Odierno, Commander, Multi-National Force - Iraq (MNF-I) who reported to United States Central Command. MNF-I replaced Combined Joint Task Force 7 in May 2004. MNF-I consisted of Multi-National Corps - Iraq, Multi-National Security Transition Command - Iraq (MNSTC-I), and the Joint Contracting Command, Iraq/Afghanistan (JCCIA).

On January 1, 2010, Multi-National Force Iraq became United States Forces - Iraq / Kurdistan Region.

Special Operations Task Forces 
There is a distinction in U.S. military terms between the troops of Multinational Force-Iraq and forces which fall directly under CENTCOM's control but are in Iraq also. There are two special operations task forces operating in Iraq, Task Force 77 and CJSOTF-AP. Though TF 77, a 'black' force, does not answer to MNF-Iraq, it is included here for the sake of completeness of the U.S. forces operating within Iraq. TF 77 was under the command of the Joint Special Operations Command and its principal mission was to hunt down the leaders of al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI).

Task Force 77—LSA Anaconda, Balad
TF North/unidentified battalion 75th Ranger Regiment—unknown location, northern Iraq
TF West/unidentified element, DEVGRU—unknown location, western Iraq
TF Center/unidentified squadron, 1st Special Forces Operational Detachment - Delta—LSA Anaconda
TF Black/unidentified squadron, 22nd Special Air Service, Baghdad and Basra area

The second force, which appears to be separate from TF 77, is the Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force-Arabian Peninsula (CJSOTF-AP). CJSOTF-AP is a "white", or unclassified, special operations task force that as of 2008 was always organized around the headquarters of either 5th Special Forces Group or 10th Special Forces Group. Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force-Arabian Peninsula (CJSOTF-AP), itself answers to Special Operations Command Central.

Order of battle as of 2009
Unless otherwise noted, all units were U.S. in origin. This order of battle extends to battalion level and lists maneuver units only; artillery, support, special operations, and advisory units are not listed. Many brigade combat teams (BCTs) lent battalions to other BCTs during the course of their deployments, giving them "operational control" of those units. In such cases, the battalion's name is followed by "OPCON." Many higher-echelon units have two or more designations, often the formal unit around which the formation is based and then the name of the provisional task force; in these cases, both names are included, separated by a slash. Units were stationed at a variety of bases, including Forward Operating Bases (FOB), Contingency Operating Bases (COB) and Joint Security Stations (JSS).

Multi-National Corps - Iraq
(General Raymond Odierno)—Camp Victory, Baghdad