[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# RadBall

compact size, less weight, no power and data umbilical as well as offering a lower financial risk should the equipment become contaminated.

Deployment history

The technology has been successfully deployed a number of times throughout the USA and the UK as described below.

Savannah River Site, USA

The earliest lab based tests undertaken on the original version of the technology was performed at the Savannah River Site (SRS) Health Physics Instrument Calibration Laboratory (HPICL) using various gamma-ray sources and an x-ray machine with known radiological characteristics. The objective of these preliminary tests was to identify the optimal target dose and collimator thickness of the device. The second set of tests involved the deployment of device in a contaminated Hot Cell in order to characterise the radiation sources within. This work is described in a number of previous publications, primarily in a report commissioned by the US Department of Energy, but also in a number of journal publications. and general industrial news outlets.

Hanford Site, USA

Further testing of the original device was undertaken in order to demonstrate that the technology could locate submerged radiological hazards. This study involved, for the first time, underwater deployments at the US Department of Energy Hanford Site. This study represents the first successful underwater deployment of technology and a further step in demonstrating that the technology has the ability to be remotely deployed with no electrical supplies into difficult to access areas and locate radiation hazards. This study was part of ongoing work to investigate whether the technology is able to characterize more complex radiation environments as described previously.

Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA

A number of trials took place at the US Department of Energy Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) during December 2010 as described previously. The overall objective for these trials was to demonstrate that a newly developed technology could be used to locate, quantify and characterise the radiological hazards within two separate Hot Cells (B and C). For Hot Cell B, the primary objective of demonstrating that the technology could be used to locate, quantify and characterise 3 radiological sources has been met with 100% success. Despite more challenging conditions in Hot Cell C, two sources were detected and accurately located. To summarise, the technology performed extremely well with regards to detecting and locating radiation sources and, despite the challenging conditions, moderately well when assessing the relative energy and intensity of those sources.

Sellafield Site, UK

More recently during Winter 2011 the technology was successfully deployed on the UK's Sellafield Site in order to map the whereabouts of numerous radioactive containers within a Shielded Cell Facility. This particular project involved the deployment of three devices and represents the first instance in which triangulation was demonstrated. Overall the technology performed well by locating and quantifying around a dozen sources. This work package was undertaken in partnership with Sellafield Ltd.

References

External links
 National Nuclear Laboratory (NNL) home page
 National Nuclear Laboratory Waste Management and Decommissioning home page
 National Nuclear Laboratory RadBall home page
 RadBall - Double Winner!
 Stanley and Latif earn IChemE Award honours
 Inventions aid nuclear clean-up
 On the ball
 RadBall Creates 3D Radiation Maps
 Radball ready to roll

Particle detectors
Measuring instruments