[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force

age from the west and north-west, while the 8th and 12th Brigades attacked from the south and east. The remainder of the Polish forces (13th and 9th Brigades) secured the Muravanaja Ašmianka – Talminava road. During the battle, the Lithuanian force lost 60 men, while 170 were taken prisoner of war. 

Another 117 Lithuanian soldiers were taken prisoner later that night in the nearby village of Talminava. After the battle all Lithuanian prisoners were disarmed and set free wearing only their long johns and helmets. Polish historian Rafał Wnuk claims that the weapons and uniforms taken from the Lithuanians significantly improved the equipment of the Polish forces. The Poles used the element of surprise because the Lithuanians had around 150 more soldiers. The disparity in size, and the fact that Lithuanians no longer felt safe inside their own barracks, only added to the importance of the defeat. 

Both sides incurred heavy loses. The LTDF's 301st Battalion lost 30 killed, including the commander of the 2nd Company, Capt. Počebutas, five wounded, and about 350 captured. The captives were later brought back disarmed and stripped to their underwear.

May 15 
On May 15, German Lieutenant Colonel Dietl issued an order to the battalions to which he was attached to go to Vilnius. On their way to Vilnius, the 310th Battalion was surrounded by SS units and disarmed. When the disarmed battalion arrived at the Vilnius airfield, the Germans selected 12 men and took them away. After some time, they announced that those taken away had been shot and that the guilt of the battalion had been "atoned for". In addition, 41 soldiers of the LTDF who were in the guard-house in Vilnius were also killed by the Germans. 

Also that day, having arrived with two motorized companies in Ashmyany, Dietl gathered Lithuanian officers in Ashmyany and took them to the divisional headquarters of the 221st Security Division. There, they were told that the units of the regiment were completely demoralized and unfit for combat, so the regiment was disarmed and returned to Kaunas for training. The disarmed soldiers were put in a truck and taken to Vilnius. The officers were arrested, and most of them were later sent to the Salaspils concentration camp.

Vilnius Infantry Regiment 
The 305th Battalion of the Vilnius Regiment was transferred to Eišiškės, where 14 soldiers of the battalion were killed in the fighting with AK, and three more soldiers who went on a reconnaissance mission being stabbed to death with bayonets.  

Two companies of the 306th Battalion were sent from Vilnius to Rūdninkai. From the battalion, 17 men were shot by the Germans, and the soldiers were forcefully taken away to Germany. However, one company successfully avoided capture by the Germans and returned to their homeland. 

The 309th Battalion, sent to Varėna, was more successful in escaping German capture, as two of the battalion's companies managed to withdraw to their homeland with their weapons.

Marijampolė Military School 
About 2,000 men were gathered at the Marijampolė military school. As the situation worsened and the relations with the Germans worsened, Plechavičius ordered the military school to be disbanded in early May. When the LTDF began to be liquidated on May 15, there were only about 160 people in the military school. On the morning of May 16, all those who remained were arrested by the Germans and the officers were separated from the cadets and soldiers. A few days later, the Germans took 106 cadets to the Stutthof concentration camp in trucks.

Tensions with the Germans 
Beginning in March, Germans constantly tried to use LTDF to mobilize Lithuanians for labour in Germany, for tbe Wehrmacht, and the Hiwis, but Plechavičius blocked such attempts. As tensions between Germans and LTDF were growing, Plechavičius even sent a resignation request and suggested demobilising LTDF on April 12. Demands and tension continued to grow. At the end of April, Plechavičius secretly blocked the creation of a list of conscripts into the German army. He opposed the mobilization, announced at the beginning of May (it was supposed to be completed on May 8). The mobilization failed completely when only 3–5% of men of conscription age reported to the German authorities. Most of them were not fit for military service. Plechavičius had personally ordered his officers in territorial branches to ignore the mobilization order.

Starting April the Germans considered transforming LTDF into an auxiliary police service of the SS. On May 9, 1944, after the unsuccessful attempt of mobilisation, Friedrich Jeckeln ordered the detachment units in the Vilnius Region to recognize his direct authority. All other units of LTDF were to become subordinates of the regional German commanders. Jeckeln demanded that the troops take an oath to Hitler. Furthermore, the detachment was to wear SS uniforms and use the Heil Hitler greeting.