[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kayode Fayemi

Demographic Dividend for Peace, Security and Productivity through Investments in Youth. He admitted that the youths, who were actively participating in the #EndSARS protest at the time, had a right to demand for good governance and an end to police brutality, saying the government owes that to them.

Fellows and membership 
 Kayode Fayemi is a Fellow of the Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies, University of Ibadan
 Adjunct Professor of Security Studies at the African Centre for Strategic Studies, National Defense University, Fort McNair, Washington, D.C., United States.
 He was also a visiting professor in the African Studies Programme at Northwestern University, Evanston, United States, in 2004.
 Dr Fayemi serves on numerous Boards including the Governing Board of the Open Society Justice Institute, Baobab for Women's Human Rights, African Security Sector Network, and on the Advisory Board of the Global Facilitation Network on Security Sector Reform and on the Management Culture Board of the ECOWAS Secretariat. 
 Member, Africa Policy Advisory Panel of the British Government.

Writings
Fayemi has written on governance and democratization, civil-military relations and security sector issues in Africa. Among his recent books are: Deepening the Culture of Constitutionalism: The Role of Regional Institutions in Constitutional Development in Africa (CDD, 2003), Security Sector Governance in Africa: A Handbook (edited with Nicole Ball, CDD, 2004) and Out of the Shadows: Exile and the Struggle for Freedom and Democracy in Nigeria (CDD, 2005).

Award 
In October 2022, a Nigerian national honour of Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON) was conferred on him by President Muhammadu Buhari.

See also
List of governors of Ekiti State

References

External links
Fayemi, Kayode. A Manifesto for Ekiti Transformation
Fayemi, Kayode. Security Challenges

1965 births
Living people
Yoruba politicians
Governors of Ekiti State
Alumni of King's College London
University of Lagos alumni
Action Congress of Nigeria politicians
All Progressives Congress politicians
Yoruba academics
Nigerian expatriate academics in the United States
Obafemi Awolowo University alumni
Academic staff of the University of Ibadan
National Defense University faculty
Christ's School, Ado Ekiti alumni