[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Grup Yorum

Grup Yorum is a band from Turkey known for their political songwriting. Grup Yorum (yorum means 'interpretation' or 'comment' in Turkish) has released twenty-three albums and one film since 1985. Some of the group's concerts and albums have been banned over the years, and some of the group members have been arrested, jailed, and tortured. Yorum remains popular and their albums continue to sell well in Turkey and internationally. Yorum has also given concerts in Germany, Austria, Australia, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, United Kingdom, Greece and Syria.

The group publishes an art, culture, literature, and music magazine entitled Tavir, and several group members manage a cultural center in the Okmeydanı neighborhood of Istanbul called İdil Kültür Merkezi.

History
In 1985, four friends at Marmara University formed Grup Yorum. Influenced by the Latin American Nueva canción movement, they combined Turkish and Kurdish folk music and topical song with a left-wing, often satirical, perspective. In 1987, their first album Siyrilip Gelen was released. While the government frequently asserts that the group is tied to the DHKP-C, and it is not uncommon for the audience at their concerts to chant DHKP-C slogans, Grup Yorum is not formally affiliated with any other organization and its fans represent a broad range of Turkish and Kurdish left-wing orientations.

They have sung about capitalism, imperialism, anti-Americanism, and the Turkish government's policies, which they say penalize the poor. One track is about the clearing of poor neighborhoods to make way for expensive skyscrapers. Grup Yorum was also the first band in Turkey to have a Kurdish song on an album. In 1993, a lorry containing their album Cesaret was on the way to Diyarbakır when it was stopped by Turkish Gendarmerie and the boxes containing the albums were shot at with live ammunition.

The group's composition has been in a constant state of change since its inception, and its members have continuously experienced political oppression, including over 400 arrests and trials (approximately 400). Their albums have been seized by police and their concerts banned, but despite this Grup Yorum has been one of the top-selling groups in the history of Turkey. The band gave their 25th anniversary concert on 12 June 2010 in İnönü Stadium, home to sports club Beşiktaş J.K. The concert was attended by 55,000 fans. Starting in 2011, Grup Yorum began an annual series of free concerts entitled Tam Bağımsız Türkiye, the first two of which attracted 150,000 and 250,000 fans respectively.

Towards the end of 2017, they released the album İlle Kavga (meaning 'struggle no matter what')  and their album cover shows instruments that were destroyed by police during a raid in 2016 on their cultural centre.

Films

F-Type 
Whilst the group is mostly known for the songs it creates, in 2012 they also produced a film called F-Tipi (F-Type). F-Tipi is a film about the experiences of political prisoners in F-Type prisons following the simultaneous "Return to Life Operation" in 19 prisons on 19 December 2000. The film was developed by Grup Yorum and directed by 10 directors (Hüseyin Karabey, Ezel Akay, Reis Çelik, Aydın Bulut, Barış Pirhasan, Mehmet İlker Altınay, Sırrı Süreyya Önder, Vedat Özdemir). The film premiered on 19 December 2012 at Atlas Cinema, Istanbul, and on 21 December 2012 it entered cinemas in Turkey. The film, which was released for 14 weeks, was viewed by 75,643 people. One of the film's directors, Ezel Akay, said that the film had been subjected to censorship by the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality even before it was released. Despite payment being made, film posters were not hung in the subway by the municipality, wall posters were removed, and people who were putting up the posters were detained. The film screening in Samsun was cancelled following the threatening of the cinema owners by police and supporters of the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP). The film was shown in many countries including the United Kingdom, Germany, and France.

Mahalle (The Neighborhood) 
In a 2018 press statement, exiled Grup Yorum member İnan Altın said that a new film was in the process of being developed. He added that the police had raided the location of the filming, and that it was becoming impossible to create the film in Turkey. In October 2021 in a Twitter video, the group announced that the film was complete and going to be released shortly.

The film named The Neighborhood was released on 20 May 2022 in cinemas across Europe, such as in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Switzerland. The world premiere took place in Europe's largest cinema, Grand Rex, with close to 2000 people on 16 May. It tells the true story of the struggle against gentrification and drug gangs in the neighbourhood of Küçük Armutlu in Istanbul and contains real footage of police raiding and banning the film.