[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Paul Myners, Baron Myners

Paul Myners, Baron Myners,  (1 April 1948 – 16 January 2022) was a British businessman and politician. In October 2008 he was elevated to the House of Lords as a life peer and was appointed City Minister in the Labour Government of Gordon Brown, serving until May 2010. As City Minister Myners was responsible for overseeing the financial services sector during the global financial crisis and its aftermath, including leading the controversial 2008 United Kingdom bank rescue package. Myners sat in the House of Lords as a Labour peer until 2014, resigning to become a non-affiliated member before joining the crossbench group in 2015.

Myners began working in the financial sector in 1974 at N M Rothschild & Sons and was appointed to the board of directors in 1977. Subsequently, he held a number of high-profile business roles, including as chairman of Gartmore Group, Land Securities and Marks & Spencer. He also served in a number of third sector and public service posts, including chairman of the trustees of the Tate, chairman of the Guardian Media Group, chairman of the Low Pay Commission and non-executive director of the Bank of England.

Early life and education
Myners was adopted at the age of two by a Cornish family, and grew up in Truro, Cornwall. His adopting father was a self-employed butcher and fisherman and his mother a hairdresser. He had no siblings.  He attended Truro School, an independent Methodist school, on a scholarship. He graduated from the University of London, Institute of Education, with a first class honours degree in education and a certificate in education (teaching qualification), and became a secondary school teacher in Wandsworth with the Inner London Education Authority (1971–72). He left teaching after two years and subsequently joined The Daily Telegraph as a financial journalist moving into the financial sector in 1974 as a junior portfolio manager at N M Rothschild & Sons.

Career

Business
After serving on the Rothschild board of directors from 1977 to 1985, Myners moved to pension fund manager Gartmore Group as chief executive and was appointed chairman in 1987. During his tenure Gartmore's assets under management rose from £1.2bn in 1985 to £75bn, with Myners personally earning an estimated £30m. After retiring from Gartmore in 2000, he chose to focus on a wider range of interests, acting as non-executive director and chairman of a number of companies and third sector institutions.

From 2002 to 2007 Myners was chairman of Aspen Insurance Holdings, a Bermuda-based insurance company. Myners was appointed interim chairman of retailer Marks & Spencer in 2004 in the midst of a takeover battle with Phillip Green's Arcadia Group, leaving the position two years later in 2006 after successfully resisting the hostile merger attempt. From 2006 to 2008 he was chairman of Liberty Ermitage, a fund-of-funds manager. and Land Securities.

Public service and philanthropy
Myners compiled reports on institutional investment (the Myners Report, questioning whether pension funds were acting in the interests of their beneficiaries), equity capital raising and governance for HM Treasury and the Department of Trade and Industry [two reports before 1997 and three after]. This report gave rise to the Myners Principles which formed the basis for good stewardship of the investment of pension funds and endowments. The Myners Report also made the case for investors taking a more active interest in the ownership of investee companies ('activism') and argued that investment banks should no longer be paid for research by transaction commission, a practice which he argued was misaligned with good ownership and lacking in transparency and accountability.

In 2000 Myners became Chairman of the Guardian Media Group, publisher of The Guardian and The Observer newspapers and was appointed a non-executive director of the Bank of England.

Between August 2007 and October 2008 he was Chairman of the Personal Accounts Delivery Authority (PADA), the body tasked under the Pensions Act 2007 with implementing the UK Government's plans for a new national pensions savings scheme for private sector workers on low and moderate incomes. He resigned this position on his appointment as a minister. PADA morphed into NEST, the National Employment Savings Trust, the national workplace pension scheme established by the Government which will become the UK's largest pension scheme.