[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chavismo

ion', and then cited Marx and Lenin".

Chavismo and the media
In The Weekly Standard in 2005, Thor Halvorssen Mendoza described the core of Chavismo as a "far-reaching foreign policy that aims to establish a loosely aligned federation of revolutionary republics as a resistance bloc in the Americas".

In 2006, Noam Chomsky expressed a certain degree of support for Chávez and his policies, saying that he was "quite interested" by his policies and that he regarded "many of them" as "quite constructive", noting that most importantly Chávez seemed to enjoy overwhelming support from his people after "six closely supervised elections".

According to an article in The New York Sun, Chavismo was rejected in elections around 2006 in Peru, Colombia and Mexico. El Universal reported that former Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva kept distance from Chavismo, saying that Brazil is not Venezuela and has traditional institutions. Still, Lula supported Chávez in the Venezuelan presidential election of 2012.

The Nation noted on its editorial pages the following: Chavismo is not an adequate description of the social movement that makes up Chávez's political base, since many organizations predate his rise to political power, and their leaders and cadre have a sophisticated understanding of their relationship with Chávez. Over the last couple of years, a number of social scientists have done field work in urban barrios, and their findings confirm that this synergy between the central government and participatory local organizations has expanded, not restricted, debate and that democracy is thriving in Venezuela.

Chavismo has ripped open the straitjacket of post–Cold War Latin American discourse, particularly the taboo against government regulation of the economy and economic redistribution. Public policy, including economic policy, is now open to discussion and, importantly, popular influence. This is in sharp contrast to Costa Rica, where a few months ago its Supreme Court, with the support of its executive branch, prohibited public universities from not just opposing but even debating the Central American Free Trade Agreement, which soon won a national referendum by a razor-thin margin.

In February 2014, about a year following Hugo Chávez's death, The Atlantic stated the following: Hugo Chávez based his popularity on his extraordinary charisma, much discretionary money, and a key and well-tested political message: denouncing the past and promising a better future for all. The country's widespread student protests now symbolize the demise of this message. Venezuelans younger than 30 years of age (the majority of the population) have not known any government other than that of Chávez or Maduro. For them, "Chavismo" is the past. As for the promises of a better future: The results are in. The catastrophic consequences of Chávez's 21st-century socialism are impossible to mask any longer and the government has run out of excuses. Blaming the CIA, the "fascist opposition", or "dark international forces", as Maduro and his allies customarily do, has become fodder for parodies flooding YouTube. The concrete effects of 15 years of Chavismo are all too visible in empty shelves and overflowing morgues.

In 2015, when The Economist was commenting about corruption in Latin America, it said the following: The viceroys of the colonial era set the pattern. They centralised power and bought the loyalty of local interest groups. [...] Caudillos, dictators and elected presidents continued the tradition of personalising power. Venezuela's Chavismo and the Kirchnerismo of Ms Fernández are among today's manifestations.

See also

Bolivarianism
Cartel of the Suns
Colectivo (Venezuela)
Great Patriotic Pole
Hugo Chávez's cult of personality
List of political parties in Venezuela
Socialism of the 21st century
Solidarity economy
Welfare capitalism

References

Bibliography

https://www.as-coa.org/articles/deconstructing-chavismo-myth-and-reality
https://www.transparency.org/en/press/chavismo-inc-investigation-reveals-the-workings-of-bolivarian-capitalism-around-the-world
https://www.cubazuela.com/the-rise-and-fall-of-chavismo-in-venezuela/

Bolivarian Revolution
Crisis in Venezuela
Eponymous political ideologies
Far-left politics in Venezuela
Hugo Chávez
Left-wing ideologies
Left-wing nationalism
Left-wing populism in South America
Pan-Americanism
Patriotism
Politics of Venezuela
Populism
Socialism in Venezuela
Socialism of the 21st century
Types of socialism
Society of Venezuela
Third-Worldism
Trotskyism