[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of coups and coup attempts

y the Blackshirts led to the installation of Benito Mussolini of the National Fascist Party as prime minister of the Kingdom of Italy, supported by King Victor Emmanuel III. After the election of 1924 and the assassination of Giacomo Matteotti, Mussolini established a dictatorship on 3 January 1925.

1923
Spain: Miguel Primo de Rivera installed a dictatorship in Spain without overthrowing King Alfonso XIII.
1923 Bulgarian coup d'état: The military, under the control of General Ivan Valkov, overthrew the Bulgarian Agrarian National Union government of Aleksandar Stamboliyski and installed one headed by Aleksandar Tsankov.
September uprising (14–29 September 1923). The September Uprising (Bulgarian: Септемврийско въстание, Septemvriysko vastanie) was an armed insurgency staged in September 1923 by the Bulgarian Communist Party (BCP) under Comintern pressure and attempted to overthrow Alexander Tsankov's new government of Bulgaria that had come to power with the coup d'état of 9 June. Besides its communist base, the uprising was also supported by agrarians and anarchists. The uprising's goal was the "establishment of a government of workers and peasants" in Bulgaria.
Beer Hall Putsch in Germany: A failed coup was attempted by Nazi Party leader Adolf Hitler in Germany against the leaders of the Weimar Republic. The Nazis were repelled by police, and Hitler was later charged with treason.
Leonardopoulos–Gargalidis coup d'état attempt in Greece: Pro-royalist military officers attempted to stage a coup, and successfully took control of much of the Greek mainland. However, the government rallied its forces, and leaders Georgios Leonardopoulos and Panagiotis Gargalidis were ultimately surrounded and forced to surrender.

1924
Chile: President Arturo Alessandri resigned and fled after the army, led by Luis Altamirano, headed a coup.
1924 Estonian coup d'état attempt: Communists attempted a coup against the Estonian government, but their multiple attacks were repelled. Multiple organizers were executed; some escaped to the Soviet Union, but were later executed during the Great Purge.
June Revolution in Albania: A coup d'état overthrew the pro-Ahmet Zogu government and established a leftist government led by Fan Noli. On 24 December of that year, Zogu returned to power, and Noli and his government fled from the country.
Beijing Coup in China: On 23 October, Warlord Feng Yü-hsiang seized Beijing from Chinese President Cao Kun at a crucial moment during the Second Zhili–Fengtian War.
Beer Hall Putsch in Germany: Unsuccessful attempt by Adolf Hitler to overthrow Weimar Republic. Nominal defeat for Nazis that did not come close to succeeding and  resulted in Hitler and other leading Nazis being imprisoned afterword. Would nonetheless prove beneficial to Nazis in the long run since it gained international attention for the previously obscure movement for the first time, with Hitler's trial testimony before a sympathetic judge getting particular attention.

1925
Chile: General Carlos Ibáñez del Campo and Colonel Marmaduque Grove deposed the military ruler of Chile, Luis Altamirano. They later allowed former president Arturo Alessandri to return to Chile.
Greece: General Theodoros Pangalos seized power in a coup in Athens, Greece.

1926

May Coup in Poland: Marshal Józef Piłsudski overthrew the democratically elected government of President Stanisław Wojciechowski and Prime Minister Wincenty Witos. A new government was installed, headed by Kazimierz Bartel.
28 May 1926 coup d'état in Portugal: Nationalist military forces overthrew the unstable Portuguese First Republic and instituted a new regime, the National Dictatorship.
1926 Lithuanian coup d'état: A military-organized coup resulted in the replacement of the democratically elected Lithuanian government with a conservative authoritarian government led by Antanas Smetona.
Greece: The dictatorship of General Theodoros Pangalos was overthrown by General Georgios Kondylis.
Spain: A failed coup was attempted against the dictatorship of Miguel Primo de Rivera.

1928
Ethiopia: Balcha Safo attempted a coup against regent Ras Tafari Makonnen (who would later become Emperor Haile Selassie I); the uprising never amounted to more than a show of force and was put down decisively by Kassa Haile Darge. Balcha Safo surrendered and was imprisoned.
Ethiopian coup d'état of 1928: Supporters of Empress Zewditu attempted to eliminate the heir apparent and Crown Prince Tafari Makonnen; the coup d'état ended in failure.

1929
1929 Tuvan coup d'état in the Tuvan People's Republic: Five Tuvan youths supported by the Soviet Union successfully overthrew the government, and one of them, Salchak Toka, became supreme ruler.

1930–1939