[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Igor Gabilondo

Igor Gabilondo del Campo (born 10 February 1979) is a Spanish retired professional footballer who played as a left midfielder.

He played mainly for Real Sociedad and Athletic Bilbao (six seasons apiece) during his career, amassing La Liga totals of 276 games and 33 goals.

Club career
Gabilondo was born in San Sebastián, Gipuzkoa. A product of Real Sociedad's youth system, he appeared sparingly for the first team in his first two seasons as a professional but went on to become an important element for the Basque club, scoring five La Liga goals in 33 games in the 2003–04 campaign.

In 2006, Gabilondo moved to local rivals Athletic Bilbao on a free transfer, producing roughly the same numbers in his first two seasons (59 matches and seven goals). On 7 April 2007, he scored the game's only goal in a home win against Valencia CF.

Gabilondo was used sparingly in 2008–09, but the 30-year-old regained his importance the following year, netting three times during the season, two of those coming in 4–1 home victories over CD Tenerife and UD Almería– his side finished eighth.

In 2010–11, veteran Gabilondo was regularly used by Athletic Bilbao, alternating between the starting XI and the substitutes' bench. He equalled a career-best five goals, either from free kicks or long-distance shots, also scoring in a 2–0 home defeat of AD Alcorcón in that campaign's Copa del Rey (3–0 on aggregate). In what proved to be his final season at the San Mamés Stadium, he featured 21 times in all competitions but only completed 90 minutes on two occasions. His most significant involvement was opening the scoring with a volley in the 2–0 win over Paris Saint-Germain F.C. in the group stage of the UEFA Europa League; they reached the final of that competition, in which he was an unused substitute (as was the case in the decisive match in the domestic cup, both matches ending in 3–0 losses).

On 10 July 2012, aged 33, Gabilondo moved abroad for the first time in his career, signing for one year with an option for a further season with AEK Larnaca FC in the Cypriot First Division and rejoining his former Athletic teammate Ander Murillo. He left shortly after, however, with injuries and recently becoming a father cited as the reasons.

International career
On 28 December 2011, Gabilondo equalled Julen Guerrero as the most capped played in the history of the Basque Country regional team. The match against Tunisia was his 12th appearance with the Euskal Herriko Selekzioa.

Personal life
Gabilondo's father José Manuel and his uncle Francisco Javier were both footballers, spending their careers mostly in the Segunda División B.

Honours
Athletic Bilbao
Copa del Rey runner-up: 2008–09, 2011–12
Supercopa de España runner-up: 2009
UEFA Europa League runner-up: 2011–12

References

External links

1979 births
Living people
Spanish men's footballers
Footballers from San Sebastián
Men's association football midfielders
La Liga players
Tercera División players
Real Sociedad B footballers
Real Sociedad footballers
Athletic Bilbao footballers
Cypriot First Division players
AEK Larnaca FC players
Basque Country men's international footballers
Spanish expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Cyprus
Spanish expatriate sportspeople in Cyprus