[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 185]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ay Tommy was surprised by an unexpected visit from his father, who
met him with open arms, and told him that he was now come to take him
back to his own house. "I have heard," said he, "such an account of your
present behaviour, that the past is entirely forgotten; and I begin to
glory in owning you for a son." He then embraced him with the transports
of an affectionate father, who indulges the strongest sentiments of his
heart, but sentiments he had long been forced to restrain.

Tommy returned his father's caresses with genuine warmth, but with a
degree of respect and humility he had once been little accustomed to
use. "I will accompany you home, sir," said he, "with the greatest
readiness; for I wish to see my mother, and hope to give her some
satisfaction by my future behaviour. You have both had too much to
complain of in the past, and I am unworthy of such affectionate
parents." He then turned his face aside and shed a tear of real virtue
and gratitude, which he instantly wiped away, as unworthy the composure
and fortitude of his new character.

"But, sir," added he, "I hope you will not object to my detaining you a
little longer, while I return my acknowledgments to all the family, and
take my leave of Harry." "Surely," said Mr Merton, "you can entertain no
doubt on that subject; and to give you every opportunity of discharging
all your duties to a family to which you owe so much, I intend to take a
dinner with Mr Sandford, whom I now see coming home, and then to return
with you in the evening."

At this instant, farmer Sandford approached, and very respectfully
saluting Mr Merton, invited him to walk in. But Mr Merton, after
returning his civility, drew him aside, as if he had some private
business to communicate. When they were alone, he made him every
acknowledgment that gratitude could suggest, "but words," added Mr
Merton, "are very insufficient to return the favours I have received,
for it is to your excellent family, together with the virtuous Mr
Barlow, that I owe the preservation of my son. Let me therefore entreat
you to accept of what this pocket-book contains, as a slight proof of my
sentiments, and lay it out in whatever manner you please for the
advantage of your family."

Mr Sandford, who was a man both of sense and humour, took the book, and
examining the inside, found that it contained bank-notes to the amount
of some hundred pounds. He then carefully shut it up again, and,
returning it to Mr Merton, told him that he was infinitely obliged to
him for the generosity which prompted him to such a princely act; but,
as to the present itself, he must not be offended if he declined it. Mr
Merton, still more astonished at such disinterestedness, pressed him
with every argument he could think of; he desired him to consider the
state of his family; his daughters unprovided for, his son himself, with
dispositions that might adorn a throne, brought up to labour, and his
own advancing age, which demanded ease and respite, and an increase of
the conveniences of life.

"And what," replied the honest farmer, "is it but these conveniences of
life that are the ruin of all the nation? When I was a young man, Master
Merton (and that is near forty years ago), people in my condition
thought of nothing but doing their duty to God and man, and labouring
hard; this brought down a blessing upon their heads, and made them
thrive in all their worldly concerns. When I was a boy, farmers did not
lie droning in bed, as they do now, till six or seven; my father, I
believe, was as good a judge of business as any in the neighbourhood,
and turned as straight a furrow as any ploughman in the county of Devon;
that silver cup which I intend to have the honour of drinking your
health out of to-day at dinner--that very cup was won by him at the
great ploughing-match near Axminster. Well, my father used to say that a
farmer was not worth a farthing that was not in the field by four; and
my poor dear mother, too, the best-tempered woman in the world, she
always began milking exactly at five; and if a single soul was to be
found in bed after four in the summer, you might have heard her from one
end of the farm to the other. I would not disparage anybody, or
anything, my good sir; but those were times indeed; the women then knew
something about the management of a house; it really was quite a
pleasure to hear my poor mother lecture the servants; and the men were
men indeed. Pray, did you ever hear the story of father's being at
Truro, and throwing the famous Cornish wrestler, _squinting Dick_ the
miner?"

Mr Merton began to be convinced that, whatever other qualities good Mr
Sandford might have, he did not excel in brevity, and therefore
endeavoured in still stronger terms to overcome the delicacy of the
farmer, and prevail upon him to accept his present.

But the good farmer pursued his point thus: "Thank you, thank you, my
dear sir, a thousand