[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Town and Country Planning Act 1990

The Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c 8) is an act of the United Kingdom Parliament regulating the development of land in England and Wales. It is a central part of English land law in that it concerns town and country planning in the United Kingdom. Repealed in parts by the Planning and Compensation Act 1991, it is now also complemented by the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004.

Contents
In the United Kingdom, the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 contains 15 parts with 337 sections, plus 17 Schedules, and serves as an incomplete, but expansive code of planning regulations in England and Wales.

Part I, planning authorities
Subsections 1 and 2 set out that county and district (county and county borough in Wales) councils are Local Planning Authorities ('LPA's) in non-metropolitan counties; that metropolitan district councils (usually unitary authorities) are LPAs in metropolitan counties and that different authorities govern Greater London and the Isles of Scilly. This is subject to sections 2 and 9. Subsection 1(3) states: "In England (exclusive of the metropolitan counties, Greater London and the Isles of Scilly) all functions conferred on local planning authorities by or under the planning Acts shall be exercisable both by county planning authorities and district planning authorities." and is subject to Sch. 1. Subsection 1 (4) deals with mineral planning authorities. The exercise of functions in Wales is subject to Schedule 1A. This section is subject to sections 4A to 8.

Section 2 allows the Secretary of State to join council planning authorities into joint planning boards.

Under section 2A the Mayor of London may in circumstances prescribed in the Town and Country Planning (Mayor of London) Order 2008/580 or directions under that order, direct that he is to be the local planning authority to determine an application made under s 70 or s 73. Under section 2B the Mayor of London is to have regard to guidance issued by the Secretary of State, must give reasons, and must at that time send a copy of the direction to the applicant and the Secretary of State.  The Mayor may also become the planning authority for a connected application for Listed Building, Conservation Area, or hazardous substances consent if he so considers. Under section 2C the Mayor of London after granting outline permission, may pass the determination of reserved matters on to the original LPA (i.e. London Borough or Corporation of London). He may also do this for connected applications he grants 'subject to subsequent approval'. Section 2D enables secondary legislation related to the Mayor's planning powers. Section 2E passes the function from the LPA to the Mayor of agreeing on a Planning Obligation related to the direction above after that time. The Mayor must consult the LPA before agreeing to one and both the LPA and Mayor may enforce it. Section 2F states that before determining an application, the Mayor of London must give the applicant and the local planning authority to whom the application was made an opportunity, with at least 14 days' notice, to make oral representations at a hearing (“a representation hearing”). The Mayor must publish a procedural document for this.

Section 3 retains the advisory joint planning committee for Greater London.

Section 4A says that National Park Authorities (not all National Parks) are the sole local planning authority for the area of the Park except for functions in ss 198 to 201, 206 to 209, and 211 to 215 where the district planning authority for an area in the park shall share functions with the national park authority, who in such cases retain all their legal functions. Section 5 makes a similar provision as 4A for the Broads Authority for land in that area. However, only for Chapter I of Part VIII (Trees: Ss 197-214D) and sections 249, 250, and 300. Section 6 makes a similar provision as 4A for Enterprise Zone Authorities for land in that area for such functions as a statutory Order may prescribe. Sections 7 to 8A make similar provisions as 4A for Urban Development Corporations under the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980, Housing Action Trusts under Housing Act 1988 and the Urban Regeneration Agency under the Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act 1993 for their respective areas to the extent an appropriate order directs.

Section 9 creates the power to make consequential and supplementary provisions about authorities for land in that area for such functions as a statutory order may prescribe.

Part II is now repealed and replaced by the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004. It used to concern larger scale Development Plans, particularly Unitary Development Plans in metropolitan areas including London, and, for non-metropolitan areas, Structure Plans and Local Plans.

Part III, Control Over Development