[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Humanitarian principles

There are a number of meanings for the term humanitarian.  Here, humanitarian pertains to the practice of saving lives and alleviating suffering.  It is usually related to emergency response (also called humanitarian response) whether in the case of a natural disaster or a man-made disaster such as war or other armed conflict.  Humanitarian principles govern the way humanitarian response is carried out.

Humanitarian principles are a set of principles that governs the way humanitarian response is carried out. The principle is central to establishing and maintaining access to affected populations in natural disasters or complex emergency situations.  In disaster management, compliance with the principles are essential elements of humanitarian coordination. The main humanitarian principles have been adopted by the United Nations General Assembly under the resolution AG 46/182. The four guiding principles are Humanity, Neutrality, Impartiality and Independence.

Defining principles 
The core principles are defining characteristics, the necessary conditions for humanitarian response.  Organizations such as military forces and for-profit companies may deliver assistance to communities affected by disaster in order to save lives and alleviate suffering, but they are not considered by the humanitarian sector as humanitarian agencies as their response is not based on the core principles.

Core humanitarian principles

Humanity 

The principle of humanity means that all humankind shall be treated humanely and equally in all circumstances by saving lives and alleviating suffering, while ensuring respect for the individual. It is the fundamental principle of humanitarian response.

The purpose of humanitarian action is to protect life and health, and ensure respect for human beings.  It also promotes mutual understanding, cooperation, friendship and peace among all people.  According to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent movement, the principle of humanity includes: 
•	It recalls the origin of the movement: a desire to assist without discrimination to the wounded during conflict. 
•	It recalls the double dimension of the movement: national and international one.
•	To protect life and health
•	To define the purpose of the movement

Humanitarian Imperative
The Code of Conduct for the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and NGOs in Disaster Relief (RC/NGO Code) introduces the concept of the humanitarian imperative which expands the principle of humanity to include the right to receive and to give humanitarian assistance.  It states the obligation of the international community "to provide humanitarian assistance wherever it is needed."

Impartiality 

Provision of humanitarian assistance must be impartial and no discrimination on the basis of nationality, race, gender, religion, political opinion or class.  It must be based on need alone. Priority must be given to the most urgent cases of distress.

To treat everyone the same way without consideration for the level of suffering or the urgency would not be equitable. Impartiality means that the only priority that can be set in dealing with people that need help must be based on need and the order of relief must correspond to the urgency.

For most non-governmental humanitarian agencies (NGHAs), the principle of impartiality is unambiguous even if it is sometimes difficult to apply, especially in rapidly changing situations. However, it is no longer clear which organizations can claim to be humanitarian. For example, companies like PADCO, a USAID subcontractor, are sometimes seen as humanitarian NGOs.  However, for the UN agencies, particularly where the UN is involved in peacekeeping activities as the result of a Security Council resolution, it is not clear if the UN is in a position to act in an impartial manner if one of the parties is in violation of terms of the UN Charter.

Neutrality 

For International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, neutrality means not to take sides in hostilities or engage at any time in controversies of a political, racial, religious or ideological nature.

The principle of neutrality was specifically addressed to the Red Cross Movement to prevent it from not only taking sides in a conflict, but not to "engage at any time in controversies of a political, racial, religious or ideological nature." 
Neutrality can also apply to humanitarian actions of a state. "Neutrality remains closely linked with the definition which introduced the concept into international law to designate the status of a State which decided to stand apart from an armed conflict. Consequently, its applications under positive law still depend on the criteria of abstention and impartiality which have characterized neutrality from the outset."