[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thunderball (film)

nless £100 million is paid to SPECTRE within seven days. While in talks with M on his assignment, Bond requests he be assigned to Nassau, Bahamas, to contact Derval's sister Domino, after recognizing Derval from the photo given to the agents in their main briefing as the body he found at the resort.

Bond meets with Domino, who he learns is the mistress of Largo when he visits a local casino. Both men recognize each other as adversaries and engage in a tense cat-and-mouse game while still pretending ignorance of each other's true nature. Following their initial meeting, Bond meets with his friend, CIA agent Felix Leiter, fellow agent Paula Caplan, and MI6 quartermaster Q, to receive equipment to help with finding the bombs, including an underwater infrared camera and miniature underwater breathing apparatus. Investigating Largo's ship, Disco Volante, he notices an underwater hatch beneath her that intrigues him. The next day, he visits Largo at his estate during the night, only to find that Paula had been abducted and committed suicide before she could talk. Forced to escape, Bond evades Largo's men during a Junkanoo celebration. Volpe catches up to Bond, but is killed when Bond puts her between himself and a henchman aiming for Bond.

Suspecting the bombs were brought to the area, Bond and Leiter search for the Vulcan and find it camouflaged underwater, along with the bodies of the crew members and Palazzi. Upon returning to the island, Bond reveals to Domino that her brother was killed by Largo and gets her to help him search Disco Volante. However, Largo catches her in the act and has her imprisoned. Meanwhile, Bond replaces one of Largo's men as SPECTRE prepares to move the bombs, and manages to learn where one of them is being moved to before being discovered and left behind. Reuniting with Leiter, the pair gets the U.S Coast Guard and U.S. Navy to intercept Disco Volante crew and recover one of the bombs in an underwater battle. Bond pursues Largo and grabs hold of Disco Volante as she sheds the rear half to become a hydrofoil to escape. Bond gets on deck and sends the Disco Volante out of control whilst he defeats Largo's men and fights Largo. In an ironic twist, Largo gains the upper hand and is about to shoot Bond when Domino kills Largo with a speargun in revenge after his hired nuclear physicist Ladislav Kutze frees her. The trio quickly flee Disco Volante barely before its destruction, whereupon Kutze vanishes and Bond and Domino are retrieved by a plane with the Fulton system.

Cast
 Sean Connery as James Bond: An MI6 agent assigned to retrieve two stolen nuclear weapons