[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Senedd building

by Senedd officials, who said the debating chamber was "not a drama studio". Several Welsh politicians, including First Minister Carwyn Jones and Welsh Conservatives leader Andrew RT Davies, cited the decision as a missed opportunity that would have boosted tourism for Wales.

Nominations and awards

Building
 Nominated for the 2006 Stirling Prize awarded by the Royal Institute of British Architects. The award was won by Terminal 4, Barajas Airport, Madrid, also an RRP design.
 Nominated for the 2006 Prime Minister's Better Public Building Award.
 Listed as Architects' Journals top 50 favourite buildings.
 Awarded "Excellent" certification by BREEAM, the highest ever awarded in Wales.
 Awarded Major Project of the Year in the 2006 Building Services Awards, organised by Building Sustainable Design and Electrical and Mechanical Contractor magazines.
 Awarded the 2006 Gold Medal winner from the National Eisteddfod of Wales.
 Awarded the Slate Award in the 2006 Natural Stone Awards.
 Awarded the British Constructional Steelwork Association's 2006 Structural Steel Design Award.
 Awarded the 2006 Excellence on the Waterfront from the Waterfront Center, in the category Commercial and Mixed Use.
 Civic Trust Award winner in 2008.
 Awarded a Chicago Athenaeum 2007 International Architecture Awards.

Individual award
 Jeremy Williams (of Taylor Woodrow Construction) won the Construction Manager of the Year Award in 2006 for his work on the Senedd building by the Society of Professional Engineers. He also won a gold medal in the New Build/Refurbishment Projects Over £25 million category.

See also 

Politics of Wales
Senedd on television
Owain Glyndŵr's Parliament House (Senedd-dy Owain Glyndŵr)

Notes

External links 

The Senedd on the National Assembly for Wales website
The Senedd on the Rogers Stirk Harbour + Partners website
The Senedd on the Arup website
The National Assembly for Wales on the BBC website
Live feeds from the Senedd

Politics of Cardiff
Economy of Cardiff
Landmarks in Cardiff
Buildings and structures in Cardiff
Government buildings in Wales
Government buildings completed in 2006
Wales
Senedd buildings
2006 establishments in Wales