[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abdul Sattar (diplomat)

r private reservations to the US and we would not necessarily agree with all the details."

Abdul Sattar assisted Musharraf after negotiating Agra summit to be held in India in 2001. He drafted the work on the Agra summit, but ultimately the talks failed and no conclusion on Agra summit was reached.

Resignation
In June 2002, Sattar resigned from his ministerial post, citing health reasons. His resignation letter was immediately approved by President Pervez Musharraf, as Sattar requested to "relieve him at the earliest." His close correspondents reportedly issued statements to media that the "last few months Sattar was not feeling comfortable in his office as the self-appointed President had virtually rendered the whole Foreign Office redundant."
Practically the military government was not consulting the Foreign Office on any issue including the hectic diplomatic activity in the recent weeks over the standoff with India on Kashmir issue. An article in the media noted: "When the mood of the dictator formulates the foreign policy of the country, then what is the need to have a foreign minister?."

On the other hand, the India Today wrote in 2007 that "Musharraf finally realised that Sattar was not the ideal candidate to further peace with India, and immediately replaced him in 2002, with Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri."

Academia and professorship

Thesis on nuclear deterrence

After retiring from nearly 40 years long Foreign service career, Sattar authored foreign policy and nuclear strategy related articles in Pakistan Observer. In 1993–94, Sattar took up the fellowship at the US Institute of Peace and authored a research paper on "Reducing Nuclear Dangers in South Asia". The research paper also appeared in The Nonproliferation Review in 1994, and later in Dawn in 1995. Sattar arguably provided his thesis and staunchly argued the right rationale for Pakistan's decision to acquire nuclear capability and advocated a balanced approach to assimilation of the neo-nuclear states in a global non-proliferation regime. Another notable research paper of his, "Shimla Pact: Negotiating Under Duress", was published in journals in Islamabad and New Delhi in 1995. He also contributed the section on foreign policy in the book Pakistan in Perspective 1947–1997 published by Oxford University Press on the fiftieth anniversary of Pakistan.

Critical literature

References

External links

|-

1931 births
2019 deaths
Ambassadors of Pakistan to Austria
High Commissioners of Pakistan to India
Ambassadors of Pakistan to the Soviet Union
Foreign Secretaries of Pakistan
Foreign Ministers of Pakistan
Pakistani military writers
Pakistani political writers
Defence and security analysts in Pakistan
Pakistani political scientists
Russian–Urdu translators
20th-century translators