[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Childlore

Childlore is the folklore or folk culture of children and young people. It includes, for example, rhymes and games played in the school playground. The best known researchers of the field were Iona and Peter Opie.

Overview 
The subject matter of childlore includes the traditions of children between the ages of about 6 and 15 such as games, riddles, rhymes, jokes, pranks, superstitions, magical practices, wit, lyrics, guile, epithets, nicknames, torments, parody, oral legislation, seasonal customs, tortures, obscenities, codes, etc. as well as individual activities such as solitary play, daydreaming, fantasies, imaginary friends and heroes, collections, scrapbooks, model worlds, comic reading, mass media interests, dramatizations, stories, art, etc.

As a branch of folklore, childlore is concerned with those activities which are learned and passed on by children to other children. The stories and games taught by adults to children are not considered childlore except insofar as the children adapt and make them their own. In western culture most folklorists are concerned with children after they join their peers in elementary school or kindergarten. The traditions of childhood generally stop after the child enters intermediate school, which coincides with puberty and adolescence.

Iona and Peter Opie demonstrated that the culture of children is quite distinctive, often going unnoticed by the adult world around it.

Opie stated that the words of one game (Buck buck) had survived from the time of Nero. 

It has been argued that the conservatism of childlore contrasts with the way adult folklore is rapidly modified to fit changing circumstances.

Nursery rhymes 

A nursery rhyme is a traditional poem or song that's told or sung to young children. The term dates back to the late-18th and early-19th centuries in Britain where most of the earliest nursery rhymes that are known today were recorded in English but eventually spread to other countries. The tradition of children's nursery rhymes is largely considered a form of verbal lore, both written and oral, with traditional utterances of repetitive patterns that vary in style and tone.

History 

The term "Mother Goose rhymes", which is interchangeable with nursery rhymes, originates from the early 1600s in relation to a collection of stories in a monthly periodical from a French critic, Jean Loret's "La Muse Historique". This contains the earliest reference to Mother Goose in the line "Comme un conte de la Mere Oye" translated into "Like a Mother Goose story". However, these stories weren't referring to any of the best-known Mother Goose rhymes that are most associated with the term, which instead have English origins.

Thomas Carnan, stepson of publisher John Newbery's, became the owner of Newsberry Publishing House following the death of John Newberry and was the first to use the term Mother Goose for children's nursery rhymes when he published "Mother Goose's Melody" and "Sonnets for the Cradle". This was the first known publication of the collection of Mother Goose rhymes in 1780, describing a compilation of traditional English nonsense nursery rhymes and songs each with its own black and white illustration and came from a variety of sources The term 'Mother Goose' has been linked with traditional children's nursery rhymes and songs in the English speaking world ever since.

In context 

For generations, many young children have grown up learning and passing on these Mother Goose rhymes as a part of oral tradition, perpetuating the culture of childhood. The anthropological approach to this field of childlore emphasizes that the songs and rhymes that children teach one another and pass forward through generations are unique to children, differing from the nursery rhymes taught by adults. The works of Peter and Iona Opie brought significant contributions to this field of childlore, particularly in examining the traditions of children's nursery rhymes.

In the early 1950s, "The Lore and Language of Schoolchildren" offered considerable insight as the first known publication of ethnographic research in which children themselves were consulted about their beliefs and oral traditions, including songs and rhymes. Opie and Opie demonstrate that there are two classes of nursery rhymes that children inherit: those which are essential to the regulation of their games and their relationships with each other; and then those which are "mere expressions of exuberance" and are repeated for no more reason than they heard it from someone else. The latter of the two classes speaks to observations where Opie and Opie discerned how traditional rhymes seemingly appeal to children as something funny and remarkable in itself, often fascinated by the way it all rhymes with repetitive patterns and various styles and tones. For example, a popular English rhyme Opie and Opie heard from children as they tumble out of school: