[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brendan Schwab

016, Schwab was appointed as non-executive chairman of the PFA.

In mid 2012, he stepped down as CEO of the PFA and established International Player Relations (IPR), a specialist legal, advocacy and advisory firm, which focused on promoting cooperation and innovation between employees and employers.

Schwab is also a co-founder of the Australian Athletes’ Alliance (AAA), and was the chief architect of the body's charter of athletes rights. AAA represents eight player unions and over 3,500 athletes in sports such as AFL, basketball, rugby union, rugby league, cricket, netball, horse racing (jockeys) and, of course, football. He acted as the AAA’s part-time General Secretary from 2009 until June 2015.

Since 1992, he has forged a close professional relationship with Braham Dabscheck, Australia's leading academic on the industrial relations aspects of professional team sports. In 1998, they undertook an organisational review of the AFL Players' Association which transformed that body. In 2012, they assisted the Rugby League Players' Association in the negotiation of a new five year collective bargaining agreement following the sport's record broadcast rights agreement.

Schwab has also held non-executive positions on the Board of an industry super fund, the peak body for Australia's symphony orchestras and has been a director and Vice President of the AFL Club Richmond. He has also held senior positions in the entertainment industry including as CEO of Live Performance Australia from 2003 - 2006 and represented media and entertainment employers at the International Labor Organisation in Geneva in 2004.

He is a vocal campaigner in media circles often sought for comment on football matters, broader athlete issues such as drugs in sport, match fixing, industrial relations and player welfare and development. He provided evidence before Senate Hearings into ASADA in 2013 and Australian soccer in 1995 and is a regular presenter at industry conferences and sports law seminars. In February 2013, he was a guest speaker at the FIFA/Interpol Conference on Match Fixing in Malaysia. In 2015, Schwab spoke on the role of organised athletes in promoting the good governance of sport at the prestigious Play the Game conference in Denmark and at FIFPro's legal legends conference in Amsterdam. In 2016, he presented on the importance of athlete unionisation in world sport at the fall symposium on corruption in sport conducted by the Maryland Journal of International Law at the University of Maryland. He is presently addressing the importance of embedding internationally recognised human rights of athletes and others involved in the delivery of sport.

Schwab holds a Bachelor of Laws and Master of Business Administration. He is married with four children. He is the son of the late Alan Schwab, who was a prominent sports administrator and VFL commissioner, and the brother of Cameron Schwab, who is the former chief executive officer of the Melbourne Football Club.

References

Australian soccer chairmen and investors
Richmond Football Club administrators
Association football executives
1968 births
Living people
Australian chief executives
Australian sports executives and administrators