[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Presidential Commission for the Study of the Communist Dictatorship in Romania

ed on studies conducted by experts and is an important source on the history of the totalitarian Communist Romania.

Critics have focused on three problems: the choice of events and personalities included in the report, the moral authority of the commission members and the conclusions of the report.

Choice of events and communist figures
The anticommunist dissidents Victor Frunză and Ionel Cana published a protest letter criticising the fact that the report failed to mention Bessarabia and Bukovina, which were the main target of Soviet expansionism. They contend that the pro-Soviet position concerning Bessarabia and Bukovina was one of the main "structural defects of the communist group of Romania". A similar position has been taken by other personalities such as Victor Roncea, president of the Civic Media Association, who denounced the crimes committed by the communists in Soviet-occupied Bessarabia and Bukovina before, during and after the Second World War. The communist repression in both territories was proposed for inclusion in the report by dissident Paul Goma as early as May 2006 in an open letter to Romanian President Traian Băsescu.

The Romanian journalist Ion Cristoiu considers the personalities nominated are perceived as political enemies of Băsescu, who initiated the commission. The writer and Ziua editor Dan Ciachir considers that the choice of events and the conclusions of the report put an undue weight on the relations between the Romanian Orthodox Church with the communist regime, especially in relation with the interdiction of the Romanian Greek Catholic Church.

Moral authority of commission
Tismăneanu's father, Leonte Tismăneanu, was, according to the report, one of the main propagandists in charge of communist indoctrination. One of the commission's members, Sorin Antohi, was a collaborator of the Securitate who lied about his academic credentials. He is a close collaborator of Tismăneanu and still edits a scientific journal chaired by Tismăneanu. Another member, Metropolitan Nicolae Corneanu, resigned after declaring he was not aware of his nomination to serve on the commission. Mihnea Berindei, also a member, was accused of being a Securitate collaborator. The exiled writer and dissident Paul Goma was invited and later fired from the commission after only nine days by Tismăneanu.

Conclusions of report
Some critics have noted that condemning a political doctrine is useless because the crimes of the regime should be condemned and dangerous because existing communist states could take it as an attack. Some believe thaf President Traian Băsescu's choice to declare the communist regime as illegitimate on the basis of the report is also dangerous because it may be interpreted as an annulment of all international treaties in which it took part.

The volume Iluzia Anticomunismului summarises a number of critiques, including lack of narrative continuity, poor organization and failure to engage the problem at more than symbolic level. Sorin Adam Matei criticizes the report for its lack of rigor, amalgamation with no obvious plan of various pre-written book chapters and articles, and for adopting as conclusion a document written before the report was even written. He also points to the lack of juridical basis or consequence of the report. He calls for a second edition of the report, a "Report on Communism 2.0" to be documented and rewritten by historians and legal scholars who have a sound understanding of the legal implications of such a document. Michael Shafir pointed to the fact that the language of the report is unsuitable for a historical work and leads to conceptual confusions. He believes that "genocide" is not an appropriate word in the context; that the head of the commission, Tismăneanu, used theories and concepts without proper attribution; and throughout the report, a faulty citation policy has been used. He also noted that the report mixes all victims of the communist regime into a single category and makes no distinction between democratic leaders and former Iron Guard members. Important dissident leaders are also omitted from the report.

On January 8, 2007, modifications to the report corrected some errors and omissions. The legal status of the changes to a final report adopted as an official presidential document is unclear.

Other
The Tismăneanu report is written in a journalistic, rhetorical, electoral language, in a wooden language analogous to the communist parlance of a "grotesque, self-degrading pathos", which "pushes grandiloquence and snoring tone to indecency".

See also 
 Commission for the Study of the Communist Dictatorship in Moldova

References

External links
 Final Report of the Presidential Commission for the Study of the Communist Dictatorship in Romania
Final Report's Chapter on the Revolution of December 1989