[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Demographic dividend

s the increasing domestic demand brought about by the increasing GDP per capita and the decreasing dependency ratio. This includes a possible second-order effect as household production falls, to be replaced by external provision, such as meals away from home and the purchase of ready-made clothing.

  Low fertility initially leads to low youth dependency and a high ratio of working age to total population. However, as the relatively large working age cohort grows older, population aging sets in.  The graph shows the ratio of working age to dependent population (those 15 to 64 years old, divided by those above or below this age range—the inverse of the dependency ratio) based on data and projections from the United Nations.

There is a strategic urgency to put in place policies which take advantage of the demographic dividend for most countries. This urgency stems from the relatively small window of opportunity countries have to plan for the demographic dividend when many in their population are still young, prior to entering the work force. During this short opportunity, countries traditionally try to promote investments which will help these young people be more productive during their working years. Failure to provide opportunities to the growing young population will result in rising unemployment and an increased risk of social upheaval.

After the demographic dividend, demographic tax

The urgency to put in place appropriate policies is magnified by the reality that what follows the “demographic dividend” is a time when the dependency ratio begins to increase again. Inevitably the population bubble that made its way through the most productive working years creating the “demographic dividend” grows old and retires. With a disproportionate number of old people relying upon a smaller generation following behind them the “demographic dividend” becomes a liability. With each generation having fewer children, population growth slows, stops, or even goes into reverse. This trend may be deemed a demographic tax or demographic burden This is currently seen most dramatically in Japan, with younger generations essentially abandoning many parts of the country.  Other regions, notably Europe and North America, will face similar situations in the near future, with East Asia to follow after that.

China's current independence ratio of 38 is unprecedentedly low. This represents the number of dependents, children, and people over 65 per 100 working adults. This implies that there are nearly twice as many working age people as the rest of the population. This historically low dependency ratio has been extremely beneficial for China's unprecedented period of economic growth. This dramatic shift was brought about largely due to China's one-child policy. As a result, China is currently aging at an unprecedented rate. China will be older than the United States by 2020 and than Europe by 2030. Combined with the sex-selective abortions widely practiced as a result of the one-child policy – China will have 96.5 million men in their 20s in 2025 but only 80.3 million young women. China's future demography holds many challenges for the Chinese government.

See also
 Demographic transition
 Demographic trap
 Demographic window
 Pensions crisis

References 

Demographic economics
Demographics
Ageing