[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Home state regulation

ry of destination acknowledges the former's regulatory power. This was considered practical, as control would be exercised at first port of call and, since the minimum of mutual standards would exist, there would be no danger of reducing the stringency to the standards of the least developed state. 

For example, a banking service is part of wider efforts to harmonize financial services. A French bank is able to open a branch in the United Kingdom and all prudential supervision is conducted in France. The consolidated directive on the business of credit institutions from 2000 represents the minimum of harmonized EC law. Britain (Host State) is obliged to recognize the fact that France only, as the country of origin (Home State) is entitled to conduct prudential supervision. Thus, there is only one control, in the Home State, and dual-burden of control in both states, which makes the service less competitive, disappears. The only option for Britain to apply its law to this banking service is to justify it under the General Good test.

Examples of application
Directive 2000/31/EC, commonly known as the Electronic Commerce Directive, establishes that the country of origin principle shall prevail in European law for most, but not all, Information Society Services. Recital 22 of that Directive states:
 Information society services should be supervised at the source of the activity, in order to ensure an effective protection of public interest objectives; to that end, it is necessary to ensure that the competent authority provides such protection not only for the citizens of its own country but for all Community citizens; in order to improve mutual trust between Member States, it is essential to state clearly this responsibility on the part of the Member State where the services originate; moreover, in order to effectively guarantee freedom to provide services and legal certainty for suppliers and recipients of services, such information society services should in principle be subject to the law of the Member State in which the service provider is established. 

The extent to which the country of origin principle should be applied to provision of services generally was a main point of political controversy in negotiation of the proposed Services Directive.

See also
CE marking
Country of origin
European Union law
Harmonisation of law
Last substantial transformation
Mutual recognition agreement
Rules of origin

References

General
 The Law of the Single European Market: Unpacking the Premises. Catherine Barnard, Joanne Scott (editors). Hart Publishing, 2002. .

European Union law
International trade law
Country of origin