[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Aaron Ramsey

first leg of the match. Four days later, he played a league game at the Emirates Stadium against Liverpool where on the 78th minute of play, Ignasi Miquel's attempted clearance hit Ramsey and looped into the back of the net past Wojciech Szczęsny for an own goal. The game finished 2–0 to Liverpool.

On 17 September, Ramsey provided the assist for Mikel Arteta as the team lost 4–3 away to Blackburn Rovers in a Premier League game. He was widely criticised for his performance lately for slowing down the tempo of the game and being indecisive in passing. However, he had a solid game during a convincing 3–0 Premier League win against Bolton Wanderers on 24 September. He provided an assist for the Arsenal captain Robin van Persie by a through ball in less than one minute after the half-time break. He made another important through pass to Walcott on the 54th minute that saw David Wheater sent off for pulling Walcott from the back.

On 19 October, he scored a dramatic last minute winner against Marseille in an important Champions League group stage match. On 23 October, Ramsey assisted Gervinho for the first goal in a 3–1 win over Stoke City. On 11 February 2012, he scored the equaliser in a 2–1 win away to Sunderland.

Ramsey was a substitute for Arsenal's first four league games of the 2012–13 season. On 15 September, he replaced Francis Coquelin, before hitting the post in the buildup to Arsenal's fifth goal in a 6–1 win against Southampton. On 23 September, he made his first start of the season against defending champions Manchester City, impressing in the right flank role. On 3 October, Ramsey scored a chip shot with his right foot in a 3–1 win against Olympiacos in a Champions League group stage match.

On 19 December 2012, it was announced that Ramsey, along with teammates Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Kieran Gibbs, Jack Wilshere and Carl Jenkinson, had signed a new long-term contract with Arsenal. Due to his rise in form, he was voted man of the match in two consecutive games by the Arsenal fans on Arsenal.com against Norwich City and Everton. Ramsey was voted as Arsenal Player of the Month award by the fans. He followed this up by scoring his first league goal of the season in the 4–1 victory against Wigan Athletic, which saw the Lancashire-based club relegated from the Premier League.

2013–14: Breakthrough to stardom

Ramsey started the 2013–14 season well, scoring in the first leg of the Champions League play-off against Fenerbahçe and claiming the man of the match award. In the return leg, he scored twice to end the tie 5–0 on aggregate and secure Arsenal's place in the group stage. In the Premier League, Ramsey continued his fine form in Arsenal's 3–1 win over Fulham, helping Olivier Giroud score the first goal via a deflection, and being named man of the match. The absence of Mikel Arteta from Arsenal's midfield saw Arsène Wenger field Ramsey in a deeper midfield role as opposed to 2011–12, and Ramsey thrived in the new role, with another inspired midfield performance against Tottenham Hotspur in the North London derby on 1 September, where he was involved in the build-up play to Giroud's goal. He then scored twice against Sunderland on 14 September, with his first goal being a first-touch volley, and the second involving build-up play with Giroud and new signing Mesut Özil.

Ramsey continued his excellent form by scoring in Arsenal's 2–1 win over Marseille in the Champions League at the Stade Vélodrome and scoring the opener in a 3–1 Premier League win against Stoke City four days later. On 28 September, he was again named as the man of the match as he netted another goal and claimed an assist in the away game against Swansea City, which Arsenal won 2–1. Three days later, in a game against Napoli in a Champions League fixture, he set up Özil's first goal for Arsenal. Ramsey won the Premier League Player of the Month award for September.

On 19 October, he scored a solo goal against Norwich City, which was his ninth goal for Arsenal in the season, before assisting the fourth Arsenal goal in a 4–1 win. His good form continued into November as he scored a spectacular long range shot from outside of the box in a 2–0 win against Liverpool on 2 November to put Arsenal five points clear at the top of the Premier League table with ten games played. He also scored a crucial second-half header four days later against Borussia Dortmund in a 1–0 away victory in the Champions League group stages, bringing his goal tally to 13 in 21 appearances for club and country. On 30 November, he scored two goals against his former club Cardiff City, and refused to celebrate out of respect. He received applause from Cardiff fans, with some even joining Arsenal fans in singing his name late on. On 26 December, he suffered a thigh strain in Arsenal's away fixture against West Ham United, eventually missing over three months of the season.