[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Yijiangshan Islands

positions. As the demoralized defenders retreated into their tunnels, the attackers changed their tactics by fighting in small groups, and using recoilless rifles and flamethrowers to gradually burn the Nationalist soldiers to death, including the tunnel complex of the Nationalist 4th Assault Group.

By 17:30, the battle on the islands subsided with the PLA having taken 95 hills over 132 meters, and the decimation of the Nationalist defenders was almost complete with 567 killed (mostly burned to death by the flamethrowers) and 519 captured alive according to the often exaggerated PRC source; or 712 soldiers and 12 political warfare female students (aka nurses) died in the line of duty according to Taiwan source. The Communist forces were then ordered to assume a defensive position for the next day, to prepare for a possible Nationalist counterattack that never materialized. Wang Shen-Ming (), the Nationalist commander was on the phone mentioned he was 50 yards (45 meters) from the approaching Communists. He committed suicide with a hand grenade, ended all the communication and resistance at his 121 hill cave headquarter. Also on the January 19, the Communist force begun their shelling on Dachen Archipelago about 13,2 kilometers (8.12 miles) away, but these actions were still originally intended to prevent possible counterattacks.  Finally, on January 20, 1955, the islands were formally declared to be firmly in Communist hands.

Aftermath
The scale of the battle was minute, and the most important gain of the PLA was demoralizing the Nationalist willpower to continue holding on to some of the islets that were difficult to defend. The Nationalists became aware that the logistics of sending supplies from Taiwan were difficult with their old propeller-driven air force and a lack of Navy ships. The Nationalists lost a destroyer escort, theTaiping to a PLAN torpedo boat squadron. By then the Korean War was over, and the PLA had moved military resources including MiG fighter jets and warships to combat Nationalist resistance. This was the prelude to the eventual abandonment of Dachen island with the United States urging Taiwan not to spread themselves too thin. According to Taiwanese sources, the troop garrison consisted of mostly former fishermen/pirates and civil war refugees of the landlord class. Some of the female casualties were female interns from a Political Warfare College. 
There are a number of shrines, roads and even a restaurant today to commemorate the Nationalist resistance in Taiwan. The 18,000 refugees, soldiers, and their descendants retreated to Taiwan and some migrated to North America.

Over 500 bombs and 50,000 shells were fired on the two rocky islets. The PLA launched an amphibious assault with 182 aircraft, bombers, and long range artillery. Over 5,000 troops were landed with the mobilization of 30,000 civilians. It was considered an example of the PRC's modern warfare.

The government of the Republic of China reported that all 720 Nationalist troops died while inflicting casualties on thousands of enemy soldiers. This claim was proven false in 2011, when a prisoner of war from the battle, Chen Hsiao-pin, visited Taiwan. The People's Republic of China reported that the PLA killed 519 and captured 567 Nationalist troops.

See also
List of Battles of Chinese Civil War
National Revolutionary Army
History of the People's Liberation Army
Chinese Civil War
Chekiang Province, Republic of China

References

Citations

Sources