[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

Christian Party (PNC) government of Octavian Goga in the final days of 1937. Weissman, by then the PER's vice president, was suspended from the Bucharest Bar, following a review of his Romanian citizenship; in all, some 30% of the Romanian Jews being eventually stripped of their citizenship rights.

On January 20, 1938, with early elections looming, the PER chapters in Transylvania announced that they would not field any candidates of their own, but considered backing one of the opposition groups. This decision was rescinded later that month: following laws against electoral symbolism, the PER applied for the system which granted each party list a number of dots. It was assigned eighteen dots, corresponding to its ballot position. At the time, N. B. Arié voiced his belief that "Jews are too numerous next to the Romanian population". Moscovici and Renașterea Noastră reacted strongly against this claim, leading Arié to sue them for libel. Meanwhile, Új Kelet denounced Mihalache, who had allegedly issued statements calling for a "total elimination of the Jews". On behalf of Romania's Jews, the party sent petitions to Prime Minister Goga, in which they claimed that the disenfranchisement of Transylvanian Jews was illegal under international law; as Új Kelet noted, the party was now unsure of how many of its supporters could still legally vote in the scheduled election.

Forced hiatus

1938 outlawing

The PER was again drawn into cooperation with the UER, issuing common protests against the antisemitic encroachment, and reestablishing the CCER. It intensified support for clandestine emigration into Palestine, and organized the Totzeret Haaretz campaign (preferential imports from Palestine, and a boycott of Romanian merchandise). The latter policy, thought of by Filderman, effectively toppled Goga and his cabinet in February 1938, but could not overturn antisemitic laws. During a reshuffle in 1937, the PER elected Cohen as its general secretary, its committee now comprising Benvenisti, Ebercohn, and Moscovici. Marton, unofficially the "leader of Hungarian Jews in Transylvania", contributed an article in Új Kelet which asked Jews to carry on as "loyal, trusting, conscious citizens of The Country". The CCER's mandate was renewed, with Niemirower, Filderman and Tivadar Fischer as its steering triumvirate. It set a its goal the recruitment of "other bodies of the country's Jewry and those Jewish entities that had so far been completely distant from any Jewish political activity."

This was to be the last interwar team of the PER: along with all other parties extant in Romania, it was dissolved on March 30, 1938 by King Carol II, who went on to establish the catch-all National Renaissance Front (FRN). Jews were the only ethnic community whose members were explicitly barred from joining. A delegation comprising József Fischer, Filderman and Niemirower tried to obtain that this policy be reversed, and talked the issue over with Silviu Dragomir, FRN Minister for Minorities. Dragomir informed them that the ban could "not yet" be reviewed, since Romania was actively seeking to please Germany. Historian Petre Țurlea, reviewing period reports by the Gendarmerie, assesses: "throughout the entire period that the Front existed, there was a tendency of Jews to attain membership, sometimes going so far as to falsify civil registers. So desiring were they to be counted as members of the single party that some of those who had been rejected would still wear FRN badges, as attested in all regions." As late as 1940, Jews such as publisher Elias Șaraga were sending applications for membership.

Jews were also banned from creating their own parties, although Tivadar Fischer obtained a reprieve for the HeHalutz bodies, which could be reestablished under new names. In September 1938, he tried to persuade the authorities not to shut down Unser Zeit, which was by then Romania's only Yiddish daily. The FRN regime encouraged mass emigration as an alternative to political representation, and a concrete relocation plan was suggested to Carol's ministers by Filderman. This context contributed to the advent of Revisionist Zionism in Romania, which was now represented by Betar and by Edgar Kanner's clandestine Revisionist Party. A Romanian Police report for 1940 argued that local Zionism had split into Niemirower and Sami Singer's left-wing branch, of "Jews with anti-Romanian sentiments", and Kanner's movement. The latter had channeled support from most Zionist organizations, including the right-wing Tnuat HaMizrahi, Bnei Akiva, and Brit HaKanaim Barak, but also Labor Zionists from Borochovia, Gordonia, Hashomer Hatzair, Poale Zion, and Tze'irei Zion, and trans-ideological bodies such as HaNoar HaTzioni (HH), ORT, HIAS, and the Romanian WIZO.