[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Simonas Daukantas

434. The work was discovered in 1919 and first published in 1929. The work was dedicated not to historians or learned men, but to Lithuanian mothers who taught their children and told them deeds of their ancestors. Thus he recognized and acknowledged women's role in educating the younger generation.

His second and largest historical work, Istorija žemaitiška (Samogitian History), was completed by 1834. The manuscript had 1,106 pages. It appears that Daukantas hoped to publish it around 1848 as he ordered a clean copy, which was discovered in 1983. The work ended with the death of Sigismund II Augustus in 1572. Istorija žemaitiška under the title Lietuvos istorija (History of Lithuania) was published in two volumes in 1893 and 1897 in the United States. In 1850, Daukantas reworked it as Pasakojimas apie veikalus lietuvių tautos senovėje (Story of the Deeds of the Ancient Lithuanians) which ended with the death of Grand Duke Vytautas in 1430. He hoped to publish it with the help of Motiejus Valančius and two copies with various corrections were produced. In 1882, Jonas Šliūpas made another copy with hopes of publishing it, but the first 96 pages up to year 1201 were printed by Jonas Kriaučiūnas at the press of Martynas Jankus in 1893 and the work was first published in full only in 1976. It was the only manuscript that Daukantas signed in his real name (though he also used pen name Jonas Einoras).

His third historical book was Būdas senovės lietuvių, kalnėnų ir žemaičių (The Character of the Ancient Lithuanians, Highlanders, and Samogitians). He created the word kalnėnai (highlanders) to refer to Aukštaitija. Russian censors considered the manuscript in May 1844, but due to difficulties finding censors who knew Lithuanian, the work approved only in March 1845. The book was published in Saint Petersburg in February 1846. It was republished in the United States in 1892 and in Lithuania in 1935. It was the first history of the culture of Lithuania. Excerpts were translated to Polish in Rocznik Literacki in 1850 and to German in Mitteilungen der Litauischen literarischen Gesellschaft in 1885. The content was arranged not chronologically as in other works but thematically with chapters covering subjects such as religion, customs, commerce, geography. The short chapter on numismatics, which discussed the Lithuanian long currency and earliest coins of the Grand Duchy, retained its scientific relevance until the 1930s. The book described material and spiritual life of Lithuanians in poetic, literary language. Excerpts of this work are often included in reading materials for Lithuanian literature lessons in Lithuanian schools.

Content

Daukantas was one of the first to clearly distinguish a nation from a state. He believed that a nation is defined by its language and customs, not statehood. His histories were not about a territory that no longer existed (and that was mourned by Adam Mickiewicz), but about the living nation. As long as Lithuanian language and customs (folklore, songs, tales, proverbs) existed, the Lithuanian nation would also survive. Daukanatas proposed than developing culture and pursuing education, not just military or political means, were forms of resistance. Therefore, he associated the Lithuanian national identity not with the former Grand Duchy of Lithuania, but with the Lithuanian language, folk culture, and customs – an idea that was further pursued by the Lithuanian National Revival and led to the formation of the independent Lithuania in 1918. He further held liberal ideas that people were born with inalienable rights and that there was a social contract between a nation and the state. He thought that peasants and other commoners were the core of a nation thus going against the Polish trend to emphasize the nation of nobles.