[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Judith N. Shklar

Shklar's attempts to fill this gap in philosophical thought, drawing heavily on literature as well as philosophy to argue that injustice and the "sense of injustice" are historically and culturally universal and are critical concepts for modern political and philosophical theory.

Awards and honors

She became a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1970 and a member of the American Philosophical Society in 1990. She served as president of the American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy (1982) and then as vice president of the American Political Science Association (1983). While serving as the vice president of the APSA, she was also the visiting Pitt Professor of American History and Institutions at Cambridge University (1983–1984). In 1984, she received a MacArthur Fellowship for her work. She served as a visiting fellow at All Souls College, Oxford University, in 1983 and 1986. Following this, she was the Carlyle Lecturer at Oxford in 1986; Storrs Lecturer, Yale Law School, 1988; Tanner Lecturer, University of Utah, 1989; and Charles Homer Haskins Lecturer of the American Council of Learned Societies, 1989. Also in 1989, she was elected the first female president of the APSA.

In 1985 the Harvard University chapter of Phi Beta Kappa awarded her its teaching prize, calling her "demanding, rewarding, forthright, fair, and reasonable, a model of intellectual and human qualities rarely combined."

In popular culture

Shklar's Ordinary Vices is referenced in the American television series The Good Place, serving as an inspiration for a well-ordered society.

Works
Professor Shklar wrote many influential books and articles on political science, including the following:
After Utopia: The Decline of Political Faith (Princeton University Press, 1957) – Analysis of the decline of political philosophy in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries
Legalism: Law, Morals, and Political Trials (Harvard University Press, 1964) – A look into political theory and jurisprudence, thereby analyzing legalism
Men and Citizens: A Study of Rousseau's Social Theory (Cambridge University Press, 1969) – A close look at Rousseau and his social theory
Freedom and Independence: A Study of the Political Ideas of Hegel's Phenomenology of Mind (Cambridge University Press, 1976) – A close look at Hegel's Phenomenology of the Mind
Ordinary Vices (Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1984) – A collection of six essays on the ordinary vices of cruelty, hypocrisy, snobbery, betrayal, and misanthropy.
Montesquieu (Oxford University Press, 1987) – An introduction to the thought of Montesquieu
The Faces of Injustice (Yale University Press, 1990) – Three essays on injustice: "Giving Injustice Its Due," "Misfortune and Injustice," and "The Sense of Injustice."
American Citizenship: The Quest for Inclusion (Harvard University Press, 1991) – A look at what constitutes American citizenship.
On Political Obligation (Yale University Press, 2019) – A series of lectures published posthumously by Samantha Ashenden and Andreas Hess.

Several of her essays, including the "classic" "The Liberalism of Fear," have been collected in two posthumous volumes edited by Stanley Hoffmann and published by the University of Chicago Press: Redeeming American Political Thought (1998) and Political Thought and Political Thinkers (1998).

References

Further reading
 Andreas Hess, The Political Theory of Judith N. Shklar: Exile from Exile, Basingstoke: Palgrave, 2014. 
 Giunia Gatta, Rethinking Liberalism for the 21st Century: The Skeptical Radicalism of Judith Shklar, London: Routledge, 2018.
 Jacob T. Levy, Who's Afraid of Judith Sklar?, Foreign Policy, (2018).

External links
A Life of Learning by Shklar 
Papers of Judith N. Shklar, Harvard University Archive
Is cruelty worse than hypocrisy? The importance of ranking our vices in liberal democracies, accompanying webpage to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation 53-minute Ideas radio programme episode on Shklar of January 2021 titled "The Rising Star of Judith Shklar, the skeptical liberal". Includes a link to the audio recording of the programme.

1928 births
1992 deaths
American women political scientists
American political scientists
American people of Latvian-Jewish descent
American political philosophers
Harvard University alumni
Harvard University Department of Philosophy faculty
Harvard University faculty
McGill University alumni
Jewish philosophers
Jewish American writers
MacArthur Fellows
Academics of the University of Cambridge
Latvian emigrants to Canada
Latvian Jews
20th-century American women
20th-century American people
American women academics
20th-century American Jews
Members of the American Philosophical Society
20th-century political scientists