[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Chiropractic education

Chiropractic education trains students in chiropractic. The entry criteria, structure, teaching methodology and nature of chiropractic programs offered at chiropractic schools vary considerably around the world. Students are trained in academic areas including scopes of practice, neurology, radiology, microbiology, psychology, ethics, biology, gross anatomy, biochemistry, spinal anatomy and more. Prospective students are also usually trained in clinical nutrition, public health, pediatrics and other health or wellness related areas.

The entry criteria, structure, teaching methodology and nature of chiropractic programs offered at chiropractic schools vary considerably around the world, although in the United States programs are required to teach specific areas for accreditation purposes.

A 2005 World Health Organization (WHO) guideline states regardless of the model of education utilized, prospective chiropractors without relevant prior health care education or experience must spend no less than 4200 student/teacher contact hours (or the equivalent) in four years of full‐time education. This includes a minimum of 1000 hours of supervised clinical training. Students must pass boards administered by the National Board of Chiropractic Examiners (NBCE) to be licensed to practice in a U.S. state or territory. The boards consists of parts I, II, III, and IV, as well as other additional tests required by state or if desired by students such as the physiotherapy exam.

History

In 1908, chiropractic education originally began with a few months of training for chiropractic spinal manipulation. Over the next several years it grew to 18 months of training. In the 1920s the education expanded again to include subjects such as anatomy, physiology and histology. It was not until the 1950s that chiropractic schools began requiring college coursework as a prerequisite for admission. While chiropractic education continued to expand its educational requirements, the education still varied between institutions due to there being no single regulatory agency overseeing chiropractic education. This changed in 1974, with the Council for Chiropractic Educate (CCE) being appointed as the official chiropractic accrediting agency.

As chiropractic grew, there were two distinct groups that emerged in the profession; Straights and Mixers. The Straights emphasized a vitalistic philosophy and used spinal manipulation as their sole method of treatment. They had the belief that all disease originated from the spine. Mixers utilized spinal manipulation, but in conjunction with other therapies such as physical therapy, nutrition, electrical muscle stimulation, and more. Mixer chiropractic schools offered more medical training, which initially resulted in significant controversy. In 1997, American chiropractic schools tended to have lower entry requirements than medical or dental schools. A 2005 report stated "Early chiropractic education included classes in some basic and clinical sciences along with philosophy of chiropractic."

Training 

Chiropractic education consists of college- or university-based training and education in the field of chiropractic as well as various certificates, certifications, licenses and diplomas. Regardless of the model of education utilized, prospective chiropractors without prior health care education or experience must spend no less than 4200 student/teacher contact hours (or the equivalent) in four years of full‐time education. This calculates out to 21 hours per week, using a standard 50-week year. This includes a minimum of 1000 hours of supervised clinical training. The gross anatomy curricula of most chiropractic programs require students to spend time performing human cadaver dissection. Upon meeting all clinical and didactic requirements of chiropractic school, a degree in chiropractic is granted. However, in order to legally practice, chiropractors, like all self regulated health care professionals, must be licensed. Licensure is granted following successful completion of all state/provincial and national board exams so long as the chiropractor maintains malpractice insurance. Nonetheless, there are still some variations in educational standards internationally, depending on admission and graduation requirements. Chiropractic is regulated in North America by state/provincial statute, and also—to some extent—by the Business and Professions Code (e.g., in the state of California)—and the Case Law. Further, it has been argued that, at least in some states (in the USA), that this license subsumed the previous "drugless practitioner" license, and includes—within its scope of practice—that of the previous discipline.