[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Monarchy of Solomon Islands

and proceedings for indictable offences are brought in the sovereign's name in the form of The King versus [Name], Rex versus [Name] or R versus [Name]. Hence, the common law holds that the sovereign "can do no wrong"; the monarch cannot be prosecuted in his or her own courts for criminal offences.

The governor-general, on behalf of the monarch of Solomon Islands, can also grant immunity from prosecution, exercise the royal prerogative of mercy, and pardon offences against the Crown, either before, during, or after a trial. The granting of a pardon and the commutation of prison sentences is described in section 45 of the Constitution.

Judges of the High Court of Solomon Islands are appointed by the governor-general, on the advice of the Judicial and Legal Service Commission.

Cultural role

The King's Official Birthday is a public holiday in Solomon Islands where it is usually celebrated on the second Saturday of June every year. It is regarded as one of the most important events of the year in the country. The day starts with the police marching band performing in the capital city of Honiara. Rallies are held all over the islands, which is followed by sporting events and custom dancing, and the celebrations and parties go long into the night.

The governor-general delivers a speech on the King's Birthday, and honours and medals are given to those who have rendered services to Solomon Islands.

The Crown and Honours
Within the Commonwealth realms, the monarch is the fount of honour. Similarly, the monarch, as Sovereign of Solomon Islands, confers awards and honours in Solomon Islands in his name. Most of them are often awarded on the advice of "His Majesty's Solomon Island Ministers".

In March 1981, Governor-General Sir Baddeley Devesi was authorised by Royal warrant to institute the regulation of an Order of Solomon Islands. The composed of three grades: the Star of Solomon Islands, the Cross of Solomon Islands, and the Solomon Islands Medal. In 1982, Queen Elizabeth II became the first recipient of the Star of Solomon Islands.

The Crown and the Police Force

The Police Force of Solomon Islands is known as the "Royal Solomon Islands Police Force". Formerly the Solomon Islands Police Force, the force was granted the prefix "Royal" by Queen Elizabeth II in 1978.

The Crown sits at the pinnacle of the Royal Solomon Islands Police Force. Under the Police Act 2013, all officers in the Police Force have to swear allegiance to the monarch of Solomon Islands, before taking office. The current oath is:

St. Edward's Crown appears on the police force's badges and rank insignia, which illustrates the monarchy as the locus of authority.

Royal visits

Members of the royal family have occasionally visited Solomon Islands. Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh visited the islands in 1959 and 1971. The Duke and Duchess of Kent visited in 1969.

Queen Elizabeth II first visited in 1974, with Prince Philip, Princess Anne, Captain Mark Phillips and Lord Mountbatten, during a tour of the area. In 1978, Prince Richard, Duke of Gloucester represented the Queen at the independence celebrations. The Queen and her husband visited the islands again in October 1982 after attending the Commonwealth Games in Australia.

The Duke and Duchess of Gloucester visited the country in August 2008. They attended a parade in commemoration of the 30th Independence Anniversary, followed by an Ecumenical Church Service at the Saint Barnabas Anglican Cathedral Church. During their visit, the couple visited King George the Sixth School, the Guadalcanal Plains Palm Oil Limited (GPPOL), the National Referral hospital, the RAMSI Camp at the Guadalcanal Beach Resort and the American War Memorial in Skyline. The Duke also addressed the National Parliament to mark the end of the visit.

Prince William and Catherine, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, visited in September 2012 to mark the Queen's Diamond Jubilee. During the visit, the Duke and Duchess were treated to panpipes performances, traditional costumes and an idyllic island retreat. In a cultural village, the couple saw performances by people representing the nine provinces that make up the nation. In Honiara, the Duke and Duchess attended a memorial to the Coast Watchers. During the visit, the couple also travelled on a traditional war canoe between the islands of Marapa and Tavanipupu.

Charles, Prince of Wales visited the country in November 2019. During the visit, he attended a Service of Thanksgiving at St. Barnabas' Anglican Cathedral, participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Solomon Islands Scouts and Coastwatchers' Memorial, and addressed the National Parliament.