[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Harriet Powers

ions of both quilts have survived in writings by others. The result may have been influenced by the people recording her comments. Researchers have learned that Powers was literate, but she might also have used her quilts as teaching tools, as many people in her community were likely unable to read.

Death and Burial
Powers, "an aged Negro woman who held the esteem of many Athens people," according to her death notice in the Athens Banner, died January 1, 1910 of pneumonia and was buried at the local African American resting place, Gospel Pilgrim Cemetery in Athens. In 2005, University of Georgia graduate student Cat Holmes rediscovered the joint headstone for Powers and her husband, Armsted, which over the years had been obscured by overgrown vegetation.  The marker held the couple's name and was "just about 15 inches by about two feet and about 3/4 of an inch thick, [and] seems to have been erected by Powers' youngest son, Marshall", whose name was at the top of the headstone. Holmes had been searching for the grave off and on for about two years. On Christmas Eve 2004, Holmes and her husband, David Berle, a University of Georgia horticulture professor, who had been assisting with restoration efforts for the cemetery, were searching in a "still uncleared" area.  First they found a marker for Viola Powers (a daughter-in-law) and then, an hour later, the Powers' headstone.

Posthumous honors

In 2009, Powers was inducted into the Georgia Women of Achievement Hall of Fame.

In October 2010, organizations in Athens, Georgia, produced several events related to the theme "Hands That Can Do: A Centennial Celebration of Harriet Powers." The events included a quilt exhibit, storytelling, a gospel concert, a symposium, a commemorative church service at New Grove Baptist Church in Winterville, and visit to the Powers grave site. 

Athens-Clarke County Mayor Heidi Davison issued a proclamation naming October 30, 2010, as Harriet Powers Day.

In popular culture

Children's literature
Fader, Ellen.  (March 1, 1994). "Stitching Stars: The Story Quilts of Harriet Powers", The Horn Book Magazine. Vol. 70, no. 2, p. 219(2).
 Herkert, Barbara, and Vanessa Brantley-Newton (illustrator). Sewing Stories: Harriet Powers' Journey From Slave To Artist. New York: Knopf Books for Young Readers, 2015. 
Lyons, Mary E. Stitching Stars: The Story Quilts of Harriet Powers. New York, NY: Aladdin Paperbacks, 1997.

Quilt patterns
 Powers, Harriet. A Pattern Book: Based on an Appliqué Quilt by Mrs. Harriet Powers, American, 19th Century. Boston: Museum of Fine Arts, 1970.  
 Perry, Regenia. Harriet Powers's Bible Quilts. New York: Rizzoli International, 1994. 
 Hicks, Kyra E. The Lord's Supper Pattern Book: Imagining Harriet Powers' Lost Bible Story Quilt. Arlington: Black Threads Press, 2011.

Theater 

 Cavalieri, Grace. Quilting the Sun. commissioned by the Smithsonian Institution and Visual Press of the University of Maryland, 2000. 
 First performed in New York City (2002) by the Xoregos Performing Company.

See also
 African-American art
 Baltimore album quilts
 History of quilting
 Quilting
 List of slaves
 The Quilts of Gee's Bend

References

Further reading
 Adams, Monni. "Harriet Powers’ Bible Quilts", The Clarion, Spring 1982, American Folk Art Museum.
 Bobo, Jacqueline. Black Feminist Cultural Criticism. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 2001. Print.
 Finch, Lucine, "A Sermon in Patchwork," Outlook, October 28, 1914, pp. 493–495. Published four years after Powers's death, Lucine Finch's article includes a photograph of the Bible Quilt, description of each quilt block, and (presumably) quotes by Powers.
 Hicks, Kyra E. Black Threads: An African American Quilting Sourcebook, McFarland & Company, 2003. 
 Hicks, Kyra E. This I Accomplish: Harriet Powers' Bible Quilt and Other Pieces, Black Threads Press, 2009. 
 Holmes, Catherine L., "The darling offspring of her brain: the quilts of Harriett Powers" in Georgia Quilts: Piecing Together a History, University of Georgia Press, Athens, Georgia, 2006.    

 Jacquiline L. Tobin and Raymond G. Dobard, Hidden in Plain View: A Secret Story of Quilts and the Underground Railroad (Anchor Books, 2000).

External links

African-American Folk Artist Harriet Powers.
Harriet Powers: A Freed Slave Tells Stories Through Quilting. 
Southern American quilting: Harriet Powers.
Harriet Powers Film Project.
Bible Quilt

19th-century American slaves
Outsider artists
American quilters
1837 births
1910 deaths
African-American women artists
Women outsider artists
Religious artists
Artists from Georgia (U.S. state)
People from Athens, Georgia
19th-century American artists
19th-century American women artists
20th-century American women artists
19th-century women textile artists
19th-century textile artists
19th-century African-American women
20th-century African-American women
Textile artists from Georgia (U.S. state)
19th-century African-American people