[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pervaiz Iqbal Cheema

n, London, U.K. 1990)
 The Armed Forces of Pakistan (Allen & Unwin, Sydney. Also published by the New York University Press, 2002).
 The Politics of  the Punjab Boundary Award (Heidelberg paper No.1, South Asia Institute,    Department of Political Science, University of Heidelberg, September 2000).

Co-authored
 Brasstacks and Beyond: Perception and Management of Crisis in South Asia (Co-author), ACDIS Research Report, Programme in Arms Control, Disarmament and International Security,  University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA, 1995.
 Nuclear Non-Proliferation in India and Pakistan: South Asian Perspectives (Co-author) Regional Centre for Strategic Studies, (Colombo, Sri Lanka) Manohar Publishers, New Delhi (India), 1996.
 Defence Expenditure in South Asia: An Overview (Co-author), RCSS Policy Studies 10,  Regional Centre for Strategic Studies,(Colombo, Sri Lanka), March 2000.
 The Simla Agreement 1972: Its Wasted Promise (Co-Author), Regional Centre for  Strategic Studies, Colombo, Sri Lanka, 2001.
 Perceptions, Politics and Security of South Asia: The Compound Crisis of 90 (Co-author), Routledge Curzon, London, 2003.
 Four Crises and a Peace Process: American Engagement in South Asia (Co-author), Brookings Institution Press, Washington, D.C., USA, 2007.

Compiled
 A Select Bibliography of Periodical Literature on India and Pakistan, National Commission of Historical and Cultural Research, Islamabad, Pakistan) Vol. I is on Pakistan and was published in 1976. Vol. II deals with India and was published in 1979. Vol. III covers subjects common to both India and Pakistan and was published in 1984.

Co-editor
 Arms Race and Nuclear Developments in South Asia (Co-editor), Islamabad Policy Research Institute, 2004.
 Tribal  Areas of Pakistan: Challenges and Responses (Co-editor), Islamabad  Policy  Research Institute, Islamabad, 2005.
 The Kashmir Imbroglio: Looking Towards the Future (Co-editor), Islamabad Policy  Research Institute, Islamabad, Pakistan, 2005.
 Problems and Politics of Federalism in Pakistan  (Co-editor), Islamabad Policy Research Institute, Islamabad, Pakistan, 2006.
 Political Violence and Terrorism in South Asia (Co-editor), Islamabad Policy  Research  Institute, Islamabad, Pakistan, 2006.
 Ballistic Missiles and South Asian Security (Co-editor), Islamabad Policy Research       Institute, Islamabad, Pakistan, 2007.
 Problems and Politics of Water Sharing and Management in Pakistan (Co-editor), Islamabad Policy Research Institute, 2007.
 Quest for Energy Security in Asia (Co-Editor), Islamabad Policy Research Institute, Islamabad, 2007.
 Pakistan and Changing Scenario: Regional and Global (Co-editor) Islamabad Policy Research Institute, Islamabad, 2008.
 Political Role of Religious Communities in Pakistan (Co-editor), Islamabad Policy Research Institute, Islamabad, 2008.
 Pakistan-India Peace Process: The Way Forward (Co-editor), Islamabad, Policy Research Institute, Islamabad, 2010.

References

External links

International relations scholars
1940 births
2019 deaths
Alumni of the University of Aberdeen
Quaid-i-Azam University alumni
Government College University, Lahore alumni
University of the Punjab alumni
People from Sialkot District
Academic staff of the National Defence University, Pakistan
Pakistani political scientists
Recipients of the Pride of Performance
Pakistani cricketers
Murray College alumni
Lahore cricketers