[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peter Ordeshook

rical evidence that expected utility calculations add little to our understanding of the decision to vote, but such strategic considerations significantly influence candidate choice decisions, especially among voters who favor a minor party candidate.

Constitutional Design and Comparative Politics 

Ordeshook (1992) re-examined the importance of constitutional devices such as the separation of powers and scheduled elections, and the role of federalism for the stability of the American political system. Chen and Ordeshook (1994) studied the role of constitutional secessions clauses. In the 1990s and early 2000s, Ordeshook collaborated with his students and social scientists from Russia and Ukraine, and helped each of these countries design their new constitution. Their work studied the design of a federalist system (Filippov, Ordeshook and Shvetsova, 2004), and the forensics of election fraud in Russia and Ukraine (Myagkov and Ordeshook, 2009).

In 1996-1998 Ordeshook was invited to teach Political Science and Game Theory at The International Summer School in Political Science and International Relations, funded by the Stefan Batory Foundation. At the time the Summer School was focused on sponsoring the students from the former Soviet Union and other Soviet bloc countries so that they would engage in intensive study of the subjects previously not available under Soviet regime thus allowing the new generation of potential scholars to be exposed to the Western thought and democracy.

After engaging in the study of budding Russian federalism (with Olga Shvetsova, Misha Myagkov, and Mikhail G. Filippov) and sharing his expertise on the subject with Russian lawmakers, Peter Ordeshook turned to studying another post-Soviet state, namely Ukraine.  His work and collaboration with prominent Ukrainian Sociologist, Valeriy Khmelko and Melvin J. Hinich resulted in publications in Post-Soviet Affairs (1999, 2002), where they analyze the results of Ukraine's 1998 parliamentary and 1999 presidential elections using spatial model of voting, specifically concentrating on East/West divide of Ukraine.

Teaching and Mentoring 

Ordeshook has been a dedicated teacher and an outstanding mentor and adviser for graduate students. His passion for science is contagious and his teaching style engaging. Some of his books are used as standard textbooks in many graduate and undergraduate programs. He is an inspiring mentor with an exceptional ability to bring out the talent in each student. He has collaborated with many of his students on a wide range of research projects and has nurtured the intellectual growth of generations of scholars. His notable students and mentees include Emerson Niou, Kenneth Williams, Guofu Tan, Arthur Lupia, Langche Zeng, Peng Lian, Yan Chen, Katerina Sherstyuk, Olga Shvetsova, Mikhail Filippov, Marianna Klochko, and Mikhail Myagkov.

In the early to mid 1990s Ordeshook served as the Director of Graduate Studies at Caltech's Division of Humanities and Social Sciences, putting a significant effort in finding and attracting promising graduate students to the program, and pioneering recruitment of students from China and the former USSR. Aligned with Ordeshook’s research interest in voting, corruption and constitutional design, collaborations with many of these students resulted in research contributions such as  Constitutional Secessions Clauses (with Yan Chen, Constitutional Political Economy,1994), Designing Federalism (with M. Filippov and O. Shvetsova, Cambridge University Press, 2004), Endogenous Time Preferences in Social Networks (with Marianna Klochko, Edward Elgar, 2005),  and The Forensics of Election Fraud: Russia and Ukraine (with Mikhail Myagkov, Cambridge University Press, 2009).

Selected publications