[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert S. Wistrich

artime record of Pope Pius XII, with special reference to The Holocaust. From 2002, he was the director of the Vidal Sassoon International Center for the Study of Antisemitism, and edited its journal, Antisemitism International.

Death
Wistrich died of a heart attack on May 19, 2015, in Rome, Italy.

Criticism
Wistrich was the most prolific writer on Anti-Semitism for some decades. Scott Ury has argued that many of the core themes in Wistrich's approach to  antisemitism emerged in the works of his predecessor, the polemical Ukrainian-Israeli historian Shmuel Ettinger (1919–1988) who, Ury maintains, was a pivotal figure in restoring the ideas about both antisemitism and anti-Zionism that had been current a century earlier, from Leon Pinsker and Theodor Herzl and other early Zionist thinkers onwards. That original outlook, which emphasized the inevitability and uniqueness of anti-Semitism in the Christian world, and the need to overcome it by affirming Jewish national identity, had been challenged after WW2 by historians like Salo Wittmayer Baron, philosophers such as Hannah Arendt, Theodor Adorno and Max Horkheimer, who denied that a normal Jewish life could not continue in the diaspora, that Jewish history and the Jewish people should not be defined in terms of a perennial antagonism, and that anti-Semitism is better approached in terms of specific historical contexts and within the wider analytical frameworks afforded by the more general issues of prejudice and racism. From this perspective, Wistrich's late embrace of the idea that anti-Semitism was an 'historically continuous, unique, and potentially ineradicable phenomenon,' his polemical and visceral anger at the Left's criticism of Israel which he viewed as a 'betrayal' of Jews, and his anxieties over the putative emergence of a New Antisemitism all reflect points made by the earliest Zionists in the context of comparable tensions at the end of the 19th century in Europe. For Ury, the resurgence of the old paradigm evidenced in the works of Ettinger and Wistrich, to the point that they now form the 'dominant academic and public framework' for studying antisemnitism, is puzzling. For the re-emergence of 'assumptions,concepts, and paradigms
that were introduced and canonized in debates that shaped turn-of-the-century society and politics across Eastern and Central Europe' in contemporary scholarship re-embraces 'a set of postulates that supply ready-made answers to familiar questions'  which only lead, in his view, to circular arguments. The line between politics and scholarship is consequently blurred.

Published works

Selected books

Revolutionary Jews from Marx to Trotsky. Barnes & Noble Books, 1976. 
The Left Against Zion. Vallentine Mitchell & Co, 1979. 
Who's Who in Nazi Germany. Weidenfeld and Nicolson, London, 1982. 
Socialism and the Jews. Oxford University Press, 1982.

The Jews of Vienna in the Age of Franz Joseph. Oxford University Press, 1989.
Between Redemption and Perdition: Modern Antisemitism and Jewish Identity. Routledge, 1990. 
Anti-Zionism and Antisemitism in the Contemporary World. New York University Press, 1990. 
Antisemitism, the Longest Hatred. Pantheon, 1992.
Terms of Survival. Routledge, 1995. 
Weekend in Munich: Art, Propaganda and Terror in the Third Reich (with Luke Holland). Trafalgar Square, 1996. 
Theodor Herzl: Visionary of the Jewish State. New York and Jerusalem: Herzl Press and Magnes Press, 1999, 390 pages.
Demonizing the Other: Antisemitism, Racism and Xenophobia. Routledge, 1999. 
Hitler and the Holocaust. Random House, 2001.
Nietzsche: Godfather of Fascism? Princeton, 2002.
Laboratory for World Destruction. Germans and Jews in Central Europe, University of Nebraska Press, Lincoln, Nebraska 2007. 
A Lethal Obsession: Antisemitism – From Antiquity to the Global Jihad, Random House, 2010. 
From Ambivalence to Betrayal. The Left, the Jews and Israel, University of Nebraska Press, Lincoln, Nebraska 2012.

References

Further reading