[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of The Sarah Jane Adventures minor characters

if she is fat, and if she will ever be kissed.

The character was dropped from the series following the "Invasion of the Bane", possibly because she received poor reception from fans, and was replaced by the more easy-going Clyde Langer played by Daniel Anthony in the first series.

J

Alan Jackson 

Alan Jackson, played by Joseph Millson, is Maria Jackson's father. He is divorced from Maria's mother, Chrissie, and he and Maria are seen moving into Bannerman Road in "Invasion of the Bane". He works in IT, blocking super-viruses; he once did an IT job in a school, and is capable, in The Lost Boy, of obtaining an 'Armageddon Virus' that completely wipes out Mr Smith's databanks. He was one of the 98 per cent of the population that became addicted to Bubble Shock! during the Bane's attempted invasion of Earth. He later made a full recovery. Alan and Chrissie appear to still get on when she visits Maria, however Revenge of the Slitheen indicates there is some tension between them, Maria commenting that they used to argue a lot when they lived together. In the episode Whatever Happened to Sarah Jane? Alan becomes involved in fighting of an alien plot, and thus becomes aware of the existence of extraterrestrial life, Mr Smith and of his daughter's involvement with aliens. He appeared in all stories of the first series, except for Warriors of Kudlak. During the Dalek invasion of Earth in the Doctor Who episodes "The Stolen Earth" and "Journey's End, he was in Cornwall with Maria.

In the first story of the second season, The Last Sontaran, Alan is offered a job in America, but is unsure about taking it. At the end of the story he takes the job, and he and Maria leave Bannerman Road. However, the group still call for his computer expertise on occasion; Millson appears as Alan Jackson via webcam in The Mark of the Berserker, when in Sarah Jane's absence, Luke and Rani require him to hack into a UNIT database for critical information. He also subsequently uses UNIT technology to track the location of Clyde Langer and his own skills to get in contact with Sarah Jane.

K

K-9 Mark IV 

Sarah Jane Smith's pet robot dog, K-9 Mark IV, voiced by John Leeson, is away for much of the series' run, sealing a black hole created by scientists in Switzerland. In the pilot episode, "Invasion of the Bane", Sarah Jane states that he has been away for a year and a half. His orbit brings him into brief contact with Sarah Jane every so often, as seen in "Invasion of the Bane".

He also plays a major role toward the end of the final episode of Series 1. By exchanging laser fire with Mr Smith, K-9 provides Sarah Jane with the distraction she needs to download the Armageddon Virus into Mr Smith. After this fight, K-9 returns to the black hole.

In the finale of Doctor Who Series 4, "Journey's End", Sarah Jane calls on K-9 to leave the black hole again to transmit the TARDIS base code to Mr Smith so that the latter can access its navigation system and direct the TARDIS back to the solar system whilst towing the Earth home.

In Series 3, K-9 permanently leaves the black hole because Eve's ship needed to use the black hole's energy, thus closing it.  K-9 departs the Smith home again in "The Nightmare Man", when Sarah Jane sends him off to be Luke's companion at Oxford University.

L

Carla Langer 
Carla Langer, played Jocelyn Jee Esien, is the mother of Clyde Langer (Daniel Anthony). She is mentioned throughout the first and second series before making her debut in the second series serial The Mark of the Berserker. Prior to the programme, she and Clyde lived in Hounslow before moving to Ealing after her ex-husband and Clyde's father, Paul Langer, left them and went to live in Germany with Carla's sister, Melba. She subsequently appears in The Empty Planet and The Curse of Clyde Langer.

During the Dalek invasion of Earth in the Doctor Who episodes "The Stolen Earth" and "Journey's End", she and Clyde took shelter together.

Lesley 
Lesley, played by Rungano Nyoni, was Mrs Wormwood's PA and Secretary at Bubble Shock! as seen in "Invasion of the Bane". Although not seen in Bane form, as with the rest of the factory workers, it was implied she was a Bane. She was tasked with killing Sarah Jane Smith in a lift. However, Sarah spotted her in a mirror and intercepted the attack, wounding Lesley.

Brigadier Sir Alistair Gordon Lethbridge-Stewart