[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Russo-Persian War (1826–1828)

The Russo-Persian War of 1826–1828 was the last major military conflict between the Russian Empire and Persia.

After the Treaty of Gulistan that concluded the previous Russo-Persian War in 1813, peace reigned in the Caucasus for thirteen years. However, Fath 'Ali Shah, constantly in need of foreign subsidies, relied on the advice of British agents, who advised him to reconquer the territories lost to the Russian Empire and pledged their support for military action. The matter was decided upon in spring 1826, when a bellicose party of Abbas Mirza prevailed in Tehran and the Russian minister, Aleksandr Sergeyevich Menshikov, was placed under house arrest.

The war ended in 1828 following the occupation of Tabriz. The war had even more disastrous results for Persia than the 1804–1813 war, as the ensuing Treaty of Turkmenchay stripped Persia of its last remaining territories in the Caucasus, which comprised all of modern Armenia, the southern remainder of modern Azerbaijan, and modern Iğdır in Turkey. Through the Gulistan and Turkmenchay treaties Persia lost all of its territories in the Caucasus to Russia.  These territories had once extended throughout most of Transcaucasia and part of the North Caucasus.

The war marked the end of the era of the Russo-Persian Wars, with Russia now the unquestioned dominant power in the Caucasus. Persia (Iran) was forced to cede swaths of territories that it never regained. The conquered territories spent more than 160 years under Russian domination before establishing their independence, except Dagestan, which is still a Russian possession. In 1991, through the dissolution of the USSR, the modern states of Georgia, Azerbaijan, and Armenia were established from the bulk of the South Caucasus territories that had come under the dominion of Russia by 1828.

As a direct result of the Gulistan and Turkmenchay treaties arising from the two Russo-Persian Wars of the 19th century, the Azerbaijanis and Talysh people are divided between two nations (Azerbaijan and Iran).

1826: Persian invasion and Russian response

In May 1826, Mirak was occupied by Russian troops, against the wishes of Czar Nicholas I. In response, the Persian government sent Mirza Mohammad Sadiq to St. Petersburg in an attempt to discuss the issue. However, Caucasus General Governor Aleksey Yermolov had Sadiq detained at Tiflis.

Without a declaration of war, on 19 July 1826 (all dates old style, so add 12 days for the Western calendar) a 35,000-strong army led by Abbas Mirza invaded Karabakh and Talysh, and did a good deal of damage. The local Khans switched sides. Bombak and Shuragel (near Gyumri) were overrun from Yerevan. Gyumri was blockaded, but the garrison managed to escape, while 1000 men surrendered at Ak-Kara-Chay. Shusha, the capital of Karabakh, was besieged, Lenkoran and Elisabethpol (formerly Ganja) abandoned, and Baku besieged.  Yermolov remained strangely inactive, partly because he had only 3,500 men. He asked for more, and Nicholas sent one division and 6 regiments of Don Cossack cavalry, telling Yermolov to invade the Yerevan Khanate. Yermolov replied that this was impossible and Nicholas replied by sending out Ivan Paskevich.  This roused Yermolov, who sent Valerian Madatov south with instructions not to risk a major battle.  Madatov disobeyed and on 2 September he defeated a Persian army and relieved the siege of Shusha. The Russians reentered Elisabethpol.  The reinforcements arrived, as did Paskevich who took command of the army from Yermolov. On 14 September he routed another Persian army on the Akstafa River 18 miles west of Elisabethpol.

1827: Russian counter-invasion and victory

Yermolov's position was now untenable and on 28 March 1827 he turned over all his powers to Paskevich. In April 1827 or earlier Benckendorff occupied without resistance the monastery of Echmiadzin, the Armenian 'Rome', and then invested Yerevan. Paskevich joined him on 15 June. Finding Benckendorf's men exhausted he replaced them with fresh troops under  and set off south for Nakhichivan, the capital of that khanate.  His purpose was to threaten Abbas Mirza's capital of Tabriz and block any relief of Yerevan from that direction.  He entered Nakhichivan unopposed on 26 June and the khanate became a Russian province. Sickness broke out and the supply convoys were late, so Paskevich did not push on to Tabriz.