[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Grant, Lee, Sherman: Civil War Generals 2

molition actions, building a pontoon bridge uses up the engineer unit and it will not be accessible for the rest of the game.

A unit's morale is calculated by the game based on the stats of the unit plus its leader's stats, as well as other factors including terrain and success or defeat in combat.

Like in Robert E. Lee, a leader who is killed or wounded in battle will be replaced by the next highest ranking leader under him. The game decides this primarily based on rank, thus if a brigade commander is killed and the regimental leaders under his command consist of three captains and a colonel, the game will pick the colonel to replace him. If a unit structure contains multiple leaders of the same rank, the game picks the leader from the unit with the lowest ID number. Each unit may also have a pool of up to four replacement leaders, which if present will be drawn upon instead of leaders from the commands underneath. Regimental leaders, if none are available in their replacement pool, are replaced by an unattached leader of the same rank or below. The game engine will create generic leaders if no unattached ones exist, however they will have very low ratings.

Civil War Generals 2 introduced victory hexes; these are preset locations on the map which will give extra victory points to whichever side controls them. In addition, a hex which has been fought over several times will turn into a victory hex. The value of a victory hex increases each time it is fought over or changes hands. Conversely, a victory hex that is not fought over or changes hands gradually loses points and may eventually disappear.

Unit strength ratings on the map were expanded to show what percentage of the unit's original strength had been killed or wounded in battle as well as the number of unwounded men who had fallen out of the ranks from combat action or marching. Resting a unit causes unwounded men to gradually return to the ranks. Units will suffer less straggling the higher the stats of the unit and/or its leader. A unit's morale decreases the more casualties it has suffered in battle.

The included scenarios and campaigns in the game were expanded from Robert E. Lee to include a significantly expanded Eastern Theater, as well as the major battles of the Western Theater. Some major battles and campaigns of the war, including post-Wilderness actions in the Eastern Theater, were left out due to time constraints on the game's development, however, the included scenario editor allows the player to recreate these battles himself.

An August 1998 patch fixed several problems with the original release of the game, including a bug which made it impossible for division commanders to be killed (the brigade commander underneath them would be killed instead).

Development
Following the commercial success of Robert E. Lee: Civil War General, developer Impressions Games began to create a sequel, initially under the working title Civil War Generals. The first game had been designed by Jeffrey Fiske, but he was replaced as lead designer on Civil War Generals 2 by Doug Gonya, the scenario designer of the first game. Steve Grammont, the quality assurance lead on Civil War General, was promoted to a producer role on Civil War Generals 2. He later described his surprise at this promotion.

Impressions based the design of Civil War Generals 2 on player feedback from its predecessor, combined with original ideas from the Impressions team. Scott Udell of Computer Games Strategy Plus noted that players had disliked the first game's short campaign and lack of clear victory conditions, and that Impressions sought to address these concerns in Civil War Generals 2. As in the first game, the team included paintings by Mort Künstler and worked with documentarian Jay Wertz to obtain video footage. In June 1997, an in-development version of the game was shown at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3).

Late in development, Impressions was pressured by its publisher Sierra On-Line to redesign Civil War Generals 2 as a real-time strategy game, according to Grammont. The publisher hoped to capitalize on the genre's recent popularity, and Sierra founder Ken Williams personally visited Impressions to push for the new direction. Grammont later explained that he confronted Williams in a meeting and "told him he was wrong" about the design. Afterward, Sierra allowed Impressions to complete Civil War Generals 2 as planned.

Originally slated for a fall 1997 release, the game launched on October 20 of that year with an estimated price of $49. To promote the release, Sierra and Computer Gaming World partnered to create the "Ultimate Civil War" contest. The winners would be sent to an American Civil War reenactment, and would have photographs of themselves in Impressions' next wargame.

Reception