[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Languages of Taiwan

e, the Taiwanese Sign Language (TSL), which was developed from Japanese Sign Language during Japanese colonial rule. TSL has some mutual intelligibility with Japanese Sign Language (JSL) and the Korean Sign Language as a result (KSL). TSL has about a 60% lexical similarity with JSL.

Other languages

Japanese
The Japanese language was compulsorily taught while Taiwan was under Japanese rule (1895 to 1945). By 1943, over 80% of the Taiwanese population at the time were speakers of Japanese. Taiwanese Americans and others in the Taiwanese diaspora may have older relatives or grandparents who learned Japanese and also spoke it as the lingua franca during their youth. Many famous Taiwanese figures, including former Taiwanese President, Lee Teng-hui, and the founder of Nissin and inventor of instant ramen, Momofuku Ando, were considered to be native Japanese speakers due to being born in Japanese Taiwan.

South-East Asian languages
A significant number of immigrants and spouses in Taiwan are from South-East Asia. 
 Indonesian: Indonesian is the most widely spoken language among the approximately 140,000 Indonesians in Taiwan.
 Javanese: Javanese is also spoken by Javanese people from Indonesia who are in Taiwan.
 Tagalog: Tagalog is also widely spoken by Filipinos by the approximately 108,520 Filipinos in Taiwan.
 Vietnamese: There are somewhere around 200,000 Vietnamese in Taiwan, many of whom speak Vietnamese. There has been some effort, particularly beginning in 2011, to teach Vietnamese as a heritage language to children of Vietnamese immigrants.

European languages
 Dutch: Dutch was taught to the residents of the island during the Dutch colonial rule of Taiwan. After the withdrawal of Dutch presence in Taiwan, the use of the language disappeared.
Spanish: Spanish was mainly spoken by the northern part of the island during the establishment of a Spanish colony in Formosa until 1642. Many of the countries that have diplomatic relations with Taiwan are Spanish-speaking.
English: English is widely taught as a foreign language, with some large private schools providing English instruction. Taiwan's government proposed to make English an official language and to provide for English to become a second language by 2030.

See also 

 Taiwanese Aborigines
 Han Taiwanese – Hoklo Taiwanese, Hakka Taiwanese
 Formosan languages
 Taiwanese Hokkien
 Taiwanese Hakka
 Taiwanese Mandarin

References

Citations

Sources

Further reading

External links 
 Yuán zhù mínzú yǔyán xiànshàng cídiǎn 原住民族語言線上詞典  – "Aboriginal language online dictionary" website of the Indigenous Languages Research and Development Foundation
 Zú yǔ E lèyuán 族語E樂園  – Indigenous language educational site maintained by Taiwan's Council of Indigenous Peoples
 T.A.I.W.A.N. – Taiwan-Austronesion Indigenous Words and Narrations – English counterpart of Zú yǔ E lèyuán