[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# Reorganization plan of United States Army

r equipment to the TM 10/20 standard, meaning that "all routine maintenance is executed and all deficiencies are repaired". But Richardson has also spoken out about aviation-related supplier deficiencies hurting readiness both at the combatant commands and at the home stations.

Prepositioned stocks

United States Army Materiel Command (AMC), which uses Army Field Support Brigades (AFSB) to provision the Combatant Commands, has established Army prepositioned stocks (APS) for supplying entire Brigade Combat Teams (BCTs), at several areas of responsibility (AORs):
APS-1 is Continental US (CONUS)
APS-2 in EUCOM, using several sites, will accelerate the flow of up-to-date materiel there, to forward-operating sites.
APS-3 in Pacific Ocean, uses ocean-going vessels.
 The materiel positioning is allocated under the Calibrated force posture:
 Some materiel will be drawn by units under the Dynamic force employment (DFE) initiative
 Some troop units will be forward deployed
 Some troop units will rotate in
 Some prepositioned stock is under discussion with specific nations with agreements to be announced (currently classified as of October 2020)
 An SFAB is allocated to the Pacific AoR
APS-4 in NE Asia
APS-5 in CENTCOM's Camp Arifjan, Kuwait, and SW Asia
By 2020 AMC had seven Army prepositioned stocks.

Medical readiness is being tested by the U.S. Army Medical Materiel Agency, a Life Cycle Management Command (LCMC). The LCMCs are stocking three additional locations in the US (APS-1), as well as APS-2 (EUCOM), and Korea, as of 12 February 2019. For example, during Operation Spartan Shield, the LCMC's relevant AFSB effected the hand-off of prepositioned stocks to 155th Armored Brigade Combat Team (ABCT) within 96 hours. In the same Operation, 155th ABCT was issued an entire equipment set for an ABCT, drawn from APS-5 stocks, over 13,000 pieces.

Air Defense Artillery deployments
On 27 March 2018 the 678th Air Defense Artillery Brigade (South Carolina National Guard) deployed to EUCOM, Ansbach Germany for a nine-month rotation, for the first time since the Cold War. 10th AAMDC is the executive agent for EUCOM.

In September 2018, the Wall Street Journal reported that four Patriot systems— Two from Kuwait, and one apiece from Jordan and Bahrain are redeploying back to the U.S. for refurbishment and upgrades, and will not be replaced. In June 2021, 8 Patriot batteries and a THAAD battery are being withdrawn from the CENTCOM area to focus on Russia and China. By March 2022 NATO Patriot batteries had begun repositioning to Slovakia, and Poland from the Netherlands, and Germany respectively.

Forward-deployed materiel
As the U.S. Army's only forward-deployed Airborne brigade, 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team, stationed in EUCOM, was supplied with new communications materiel —  Integrated Tactical Networks (ITN) in 2018. New ground combat vehicles, the Infantry Carrier Vehicle – Dragoon (M1126 Infantry Carrier Vehicle) are being supplied to 2nd Cavalry Regiment. ICVDs are Strykers with an unmanned turret and 30 mm autocannon (CROWS), and an integrated commander's station, upgraded suspension and larger tires. The Army brigades of EUCOM have been in position for testing materiel, as its elements engaged in a 2018 road march through Europe, training with 19 ally and partner nations in Poland in 2018.

Bulgaria has expressed interest in Strykers.

Dynamic force employment

This initiative, designed by then-DoD-Secretary James Mattis, exercises the ability of selected BCTs to rapidly surge combat-ready forces into a theater, such as EUCOM, on short notice. In several such cases, at the direction of the Secretary of Defense in March 2019, troops were rapidly alerted, recalled and deployed to a forward position, under (simulated) emergency conditions, to prove a capability (such as an ABCT, and a THAAD battery) against near-peers. 
The ABCT element next participated in a joint live-fire exercise with Polish troops of the 12th Mechanized Brigade, 12th Mechanised Division (Poland) in Drawsko Pomorskie Training Area, Poland. (A Mission Command element of TRADOC served in the role of echelon-above-brigade for the maneuver and interoperability of the joint multi-national armored brigades.) In September 2018, the 278th Armored Cavalry Regiment had already assumed a forward deployment in Poland. Poland and the US are planning for regular rotations going forward. A Combat Aviation Brigade element, an Armored Combat Brigade element, and a Division Headquarters element will rotate in.

Similar initiatives are planned for other alliances.