[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Our Ukraine (political party)

ty merged with People's Movement of Ukraine in May 2013.

March 2013 attempted dissolution and further history
On 9 February 2013, the Kyiv branch of the party, led by Sergii Bondarchuk, expelled Viktor Yuschenko from the party. The same day the political council of the party canceled this decision.

On 2 March 2013, a party congress in Kyiv dissolved Our Ukraine. However, the same day other sections of the party claimed this congress was illegal and that the "real" party congress would be held on 18 May 2013. They claimed the 2 March congress was illegitimate because its organizer, Serhiy Bondarchuk is a former member of the party. At the 2 March congress Bondarchuk urged to dissolve all current Ukrainian right wing extra-parliamentary parties and the creation of a single right-wing party. Bondarchuk tried unsuccessfully to remove the registration of Our Ukraine at the Ministry of Justice; they did not accept his documents. The remains of Our Ukraine re-registered its party members.
On 6 September 2013, the party was deprived of its "observer status" in the European People's Party because "it did no more comply with the principles that the party declared when it joined the European People's Party".

The party did not participate in the 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election, it had intended to have a candidate in one single-seat constituency, but his registration was cancelled.

In October 2017, the Committee of Voters of Ukraine prepared an appeal to the National Agency on Corruption Prevention with a request to check the activities of 21 parties including the Movement of New Forces and Our Ukraine because of the presence of signs of shadow financing. The reason for initiating the verification of Our Ukraine was the lack of reporting on the Agency's website for the second quarter of 2017.

Our Ukraine did not participate in the 2019 Ukrainian parliamentary election.

Election results

Notes

References

External links

2005 establishments in Ukraine
Conservative parties in Ukraine
Liberal parties in Ukraine
Liberal conservative parties
National liberal parties
Political parties established in 2005
Pro-European political parties in Ukraine