[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mass in the Catholic Church

ly, though not obligatory, is recommended.

On Sundays and solemnities, all then profess their Christian faith by reciting or singing the Nicene Creed or, especially from Easter to Pentecost, the Apostles' Creed, which is particularly associated with baptism and is often used in Masses for children.

The Liturgy of the Word concludes with the Universal Prayer or Prayer of the Faithful. The priest begins it with a brief introduction, then a deacon, a cantor, or another lay person announces some intentions for prayer, to which the congregation responds with a short invocation such as "Lord hear our prayer." The priest concludes with a longer prayer.

Liturgy of the Eucharist

Preparation of the gifts
The linen corporal is spread over the center of the altar, and the Liturgy of the Eucharist begins with the ceremonial placing on it of bread and wine. These may be brought to the altar in a procession, especially if Mass is celebrated with a large congregation. The unleavened, wheat bread (in the tradition of the Latin Church) is placed on a paten, and the wine (from grapes) is put in a chalice and mixed with a little water, As the priest places each on the corporal, he says a silent prayer over each individually, which, if this rite is unaccompanied by singing, he is permitted to say aloud, in which case the congregation responds to each prayer with: "Blessed be God forever." Then the priest washes his hands, "a rite in which the desire for interior purification finds expression."

The congregation, which has been seated during this preparatory rite, rises, and the priest gives an exhortation to pray: "Pray, brethren, that my sacrifice and yours may be acceptable to God, the almighty Father." The congregation responds: "May the Lord accept the sacrifice at your hands, for the praise and glory of his name, for our good, and the good of all his holy Church." The priest then pronounces the variable prayer over the gifts.

Eucharistic Prayer (Anaphora)
The Eucharistic Prayer, "the centre and high point of the entire celebration", then begins with a dialogue between priest and the faithful. This dialogue opens with the normal liturgical greeting, "The Lord be with you", but in view of the special solemnity of the rite now beginning, the priest then exhorts the faithful: "Lift up your hearts." The faithful respond with: "We lift them up to the Lord." The priest then introduces the great theme of "Eucharist", a word originating in the Greek word for giving thanks: "Let us give thanks to the Lord, our God." The faithful join in this sentiment, saying: "It is right and just."

The priest continues with one of many thematic Eucharistic Prayer prefaces, which lead to the Sanctus acclamation: "Holy, Holy, Holy Lord God of hosts. Heaven and earth are full of your glory. Hosanna in the highest. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest."

In some countries, including the United States, the faithful kneel immediately after the singing or recitation of the Sanctus. If a person is unable to kneel, he makes a profound bow after the Consecration – the Institution Narrative that recalls Jesus' words and actions at his Last Supper: "Take this, all of you, and eat of it: for this is my body which will be given up for you. ...Take this, all of you, and drink from it: for this is the chalice of my blood, the blood of the new and eternal covenant, which will be poured out for you and for many for the forgiveness of sins. Do this in memory of me." In many places, a consecrated bell is rung after the elevation of each element. The tradition of raising the host and chalice high after the Consecration has its origin in the ad orientem celebration of the Mass, and is done so that the people may more readily see the Host. It is also customary on solemnities and other days for the altar servers to offer incense to the Host and chalice during the elevation. The priest then announces: "The mystery of faith," and the faithful respond with an acclamation, using one of three prescribed formulae.

The Eucharistic Prayer includes the Epiclesis (which since early Christian times the Eastern churches have seen as the climax of the Consecration), praying that the Holy Spirit might transform the elements of bread and wine and thereby the people into one body in Christ. The whole portion of the Antiphon recalling Christ's passion, death, and resurrection, is called the Anamnesis.

Intercessions for both the living and the souls in Purgatory follow. When there are priests concelebrating the Mass they join the main celebrant in the central prayers, up to the intercessions, which they may divide among themselves.