[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Cinema of South Korea

considered to have a queer point-of-view in the sense that it has an experimental quality that creates ambiguity when it comes to non-normative themes. However, the film does depict graphic, homoeroticism, making the representation of homosexuality clear.

LGBTQ films not by openly LGBTQ directors 

 The Pollen of Flowers (Ha Kil-jong, 1972): Regarded as the first gay Korean film by the director's brother Ha Myong-jung, the film depicts homosexuality in the film through tension in LGBTQ relationships though it was not typically regarded as a queer film at the time of release. The film's political message and critique of the president at the time, Park Chung Hee, may be the reason that queer relationships were overshadowed. In spite of being an earlier Korean film depicting homosexuality, the film is more explicit in these relationships than might be expected at the time.
 Ascetic: Woman and Woman (Kim Su-hyeong, 1976): Though the film was given award-winning status by the Korean press, during the time of the release, Ascetic remained an under-recognized film by the public. The film is seen as the first lesbian film by Korean magazine Buddy and tells the story of two women who develop feelings for each other. Though the homosexual feelings between the women are implied through “thinly-veiled sex acts” that could be more explicit, it was considered homosexual given the context of the heavy censorship regulations of the 1970s. Despite the film's status as a lesbian film, it has been noted that the director did not intend to make an LGBTQ film, but rather a feminist film by emphasizing the meaningfulness of the two women's interactions and relationships. Even so, Kim Su-hyeong has said the film can be seen as both lesbian and feminist.
 Road Movie (Kim In-shik, 2002): Even though the film was released through a large distribution company, the film did not reach the expected mainstream box office success, yet it is still seen as a precursor to queer blockbuster films to come. The film is explicit in its homosexual content and portrays a complicated love triangle between two men and a woman while focusing primarily on a character who is homosexual. It is noteworthy that Road Movie is one of the few full-length feature films in South Korea to revolve around a queer main character.
 The King and the Clown (Lee Joon-ik, 2005): The King and the Clown is seen as having a major impact in queer cinema for its great mainstream success. In the film, one of the characters is seen as representing queer-ness through his embodiment of femininity, which is often regarded as the character trope of the “flower boy” or kkonminam. However, actual depictions of homosexuality are limited and are depicted only through a kiss. The King and the Clown is seen as influential because of its representation of suggested gay characters that preceded other queer films to come after it. The film depicts undertones of a love triangle between two jesters and a king and suggests homosexuality in a pre-modern time period (Joseon Dynasty) and is based on the play Yi (2000) which drew on the passage The Annals of the Choseon Dynasty, two pieces that were more explicit in their homosexuality in comparison the film. The representation of gay intimacy and attraction remains ambiguous in the film and has been criticized by the LGBT community for its portrayal of queerness.
 Frozen Flower (Yoo Ha, 2008): A Frozen Flower followed other queer films such as The King and the Clown, Broken Branches, and Road Movie. This film reached a mainstream audience which may have been due in part to a well-received actor playing a homosexual character. Critiques of the film have questioned the character Hong Lim's homosexuality, however, it may be suggested that his character is actually bisexual. Despite the explicit homosexual/queer love scenes in the film that brought a shock to mainstream audiences, the film still managed to be successful and expose a large audience to a story about queer relationships.
 The Handmaiden (Park Chan-wook, 2016): The film is a cross-cultural adaptation of the lesbian novel Fingersmith written by Sarah Waters. The Handmaiden includes representation of lesbian characters who are seen expressing romantic feelings towards each other in a sensual way that has been critiqued as voyeuristic for its fetishization of the female body. Explicitly depicting the homosexual attraction of the characters Sook-hee and Lady Hideko is a bath scene where the act of filing down the other's tooth has underlying sexual tension. The film had mainstream box-office success and "over the first six weeks of play [reached a gross] of £1.25 million".

Highest-grossing films