[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chief Rabbinate of Israel

legal framework for civil unions, which has the same legal standing as marriage; therefore, someone who does marry outside of the Rabbinate can have their union recognized by the state. This same mechanism has been used for same-sex unions, even though there is no legal same-sex marriage in Israel.

Because of Israeli law, the rabbi that performs a marriage outside of the Rabbinate can be charged with a criminal offense and be jailed for up to two years. In spite of this, there are a number of people and organizations that perform marriages outside of the rabbinate framework. Chuck Davidson has openly challenged the state to jail him for his performing of marriages. He has personally performed hundreds of marriages outside of the rabbinate, while those in his network have performed many more. He works with Hashgacha Pratit, another organization which challenges the monopoly of the Rabbinate on kashrut and weddings.

Seth Farber has set up an organization, Itim. While Itim still works from within the Rabbinate, and, therefore, is beholden to their rules, it tries to find a gentler path for the many secular people who want to use their services. Another group involved in marriage within the Rabbinate is the Tzohar network.

Since the Rabbinate is affiliated with Orthodoxy, no Reform or Conservative rabbi may legally officiate at a wedding in Israel. Conservative rabbi Dov Haiyun was detained in July 2018 for performing an unsanctioned wedding, leading to protests and condemnation from opposition lawmakers and mainstream Jewish organizations in the United States.

Semikhah 

The Chief Rabbinate confers the semikhah (i.e., Rabbinic ordination) once the candidate has passed a series of six written tests on specified subjects 
 (mandatory are Shabbat, Kashrut, and Family purity).
The title conferred is the standard Yoreh Yoreh, with certificants also referred to as "Rav Shechuna" ("Rabbi of the Neighborhood", ). 
Additional semachot — with similar testing requirements — are granted for:
"Rav Moshav" ("Rabbi of the settlement"); six exams, compulsory topics as above
"Rav Ezori" ("Rabbi of the Area"); 9 exams
"Rav Ir" ("[Chief] Rabbi of the City"); 11 exams - in other relevant areas of Orach Chayim, Yoreh De'ah and Even Ha'ezer - followed by an oral examination
Dayan - monetary law, as dealt with in Choshen Mishpat.

Rav Ir  and Dayanut are advanced qualifications, and are offered only post Yoreh Yoreh.

The ordination by the Chief Rabbinate is not a monopoly in Israel, with many other rabbis and organizations having programs, such as that of the late Rabbi Zalman Nechemia Goldberg. However in order to be employed as a rabbi by the state, only semikhah from the Chief Rabbinate is accepted.

Criticism 
With the Rabbinate existing as a government department, there have been calls for the entire department to be shut down, and for a return to a localised model of rabbinate. These calls have increased in recent times because of two former Chief Rabbis being convicted of fraud, and the increasing encroachment of the religious institutions on the lives of Israelis. There are also charges that the office has become a political, rather than a religious, office, and that it has become beholden to the Haredi world and become their "puppets".

Their control of marriages and the fact that some people have described their experiences as negative has caused a call for civil marriage in Israel.

At the same time, many defend the Chief Rabbinate as protecting the Jewish nature of Israel, the Torah, and Diaspora Jewry.

References

External links
 Chief Rabbinate of Israel Official Website
 

 
Jews and Judaism in Israel
Rabbinical organizations
Orthodox Judaism in Israel
Kosher food certification organizations