[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Valley Heights railway station

egion. The Valley Heights Steam Tramway was established in 1997 by the Stream Tram and Railway Preservation (Co-Op) Society Limited.

The locomotive depot continues to be occupied by Transport Heritage NSW doing business as the Valley Heights Locomotive Depot Heritage Museum.

Platforms and services

Valley Heights has one island platform with two sides. It is serviced by NSW TrainLink Blue Mountains Line services travelling from Sydney Central to Lithgow.

Description 
The station precinct comprises a type 11, initial island/side platform brick station building, erected in 1902; a brick lamp room/store, erected in 1902; a signal box, erected in 1910. Other station precinct structures include a concrete over brick face platform, erected in 1902; and a standard steel beam on trestles footbridge, over the main up line track and platform, erected in 1901 and modified in 1992.

The locomotive depot precinct comprises a 10 road roundhouse, erected in 1913 and extended 1973; a machine workshop; a members' room/meal room; a members' locker room/toilet; a passageway; a former chargeman's office/district locomotive engineer's (DLE) office, erected in 1913; a former amenities building, erected in 1930; a toilet block, erected in 1965; an air compressor shed; a red brick fuel store, erected in 1970; and a shed, erected in 2008. Other locomotive depot structures include a  steel turntable, erected in 1914 and modified in 1967; an ash disposal tunnel and pits, erected in 1913; locomotive watering facilities, erected in 1924; trackwork, completed in 1914; trestling foundations, erected in ; and overhead catenary masts, erected in 1957.

Station precinct
Station building (1902)
External: Constructed of face brick with corrugated metal gabled roof extending as an awning in the form of broken back to both platforms, the Valley Heights station building is an early phase type 11 initial island/side platform building in standard Federation free classical style design. It has a 6 bay linear arrangement along the platform with tuckpointed brickwork and engaged piers between the bays. Distinctive features are red face brickwork with rendered and moulded two rows of string courses to both rail elevations, timber framed windows and doors with contrasting decorative rendered trims and sills, standard iron brackets over decorative corbels supporting ample platform awnings, fretted timber work to both ends of awnings and gable ends, two tall corbelled chimneys one of which with terracotta pots, timber framed double-hung windows with multi-paned and coloured upper sashes and toughened glass bottom sashes, and timber door openings with multi-paned fanlights with coloured glazing. A face brick privacy wall screens the Men's toilet entry at the eastern end of the building. Two roof vents also exist above the toilet bays. All windows and doors are secured by metal gates and grills. An air-conditioning unit has been installed on the fanlight of the Station Master's office door.

Internal: The station building appears to have maintained most of its original detailing and finishes despite the changes over the time. The original floor layout remains including parcels office and Station Master's office with ticket window looking over the general waiting room, and toilets including an accessible toilet at eastern end. The interiors generally feature custom orb ceilings with ceiling roses, enclosed or adapted fireplaces, moulded picture rails and cornices to the general waiting room, decorative cast iron wall vents, later floor tiling or carpet finish, and timber bead style moulded cornices. All toilet and light fittings are relatively new. The Platform 1 door of the general waiting room and the ladies toilet door have also been fitted with a solid panel at the back.

Lamp room / store (1902)
External: A small square shaped brick shed featuring moulded and rendered string course detailing similar to the main station building. It is located on the west side of the station building towards the end of the platform and is separated visually from the main station building by the stairs leading to the footbridge. The shed features a gabled corrugated metal roof with timber bargeboard and narrow eaves with exposed rafters, contrasting rendered moulded trim above two single doors on east and west side elevations and a band of string course throughout all elevations. There are no other openings on the building and the existing doors have been secured by metal gates.

Internal: The former lamp room is currently used as a storage area and features face brick walls with exposed roof truss structure within the corrugated metal roof. The timber boarded door is in the form of a sliding loading door with a fanlight above.