[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Office of International Treasury Control

ding newspaper, the Fiji Times, ran a front-page open letter to the OITC's Keith Scott, declaring: "You cannot continue to refuse to tell us, the people of Fiji, who you are. ... Mere words and assurances are not enough. We want hard, commercial facts that we can check and verify."

Government views

The Fijian government expressed serious concerns about the deal and the bona fides of the OITC. Fiji's finance ministry noted that the OITC had provided no proof that it had the money and the home affairs minister, Josefa Vosanibola, asked the immigration service and police to investigate the bona fides of Scott and the OITC.  Vosanibola said that the government had no knowledge of either party and noted that neither Scott nor the OITC had submitted an application to do business in Fiji, as required by immigration regulations. The Native Land Trust Board also told the Viti Landowners and Resources Association that it had "no legal authority to sell native land privately."

The Prime Minister of Fiji, Laisenia Qarase, who is himself a former bank managing director, also questioned the deal. He told the Fiji Times newspaper, "I doubt the people will see the money" and commented that "no one in their right mind would inject such a large sum of money into an economy as small as ours. They (VLRA) must be careful when someone comes along and promises such a thing, they must check it out first."

Following the Fijian government's request for a police investigation, Fiji Commissioner of Police Andrew Hughes told the media that "nothing that [the police] received gave credence or legitimacy to the organisation and Mr Scott ... What we can say is that the information that we do have at hand leads us to conclude that the proposed transaction is highly irregular, it is questionable and leaves me with a profound level of suspicion." He urged the Fijian parties to the OITC deal not to "send any money if it's requested as some form of an advanced fee for this transaction to proceed" (the sending of advance fees is a widely used method of fraud). He also disclosed that Keith Scott was "known by Australian authorities", though he was not at liberty to provide further details.

The OITC's deal was viewed with scepticism in other areas of Fijian society. The country's Great Council of Chiefs expressed concern, noting that there had been recent high-profile instances of fraud, and advised Fijians to be careful about assessing such promises. Fiji's newspapers ran numerous letters questioning the veracity of the OITC's claims. An online poll run by asked "Is Dr Keith Scott and OITC's multi-billion dollar donation to Fiji landowners genuine?"; 89% of respondents voted no. The Fiji Sun published a strongly worded denunciation of the OITC, calling it "a scam in the making" and a "get-rich scheme". However, some other prominent groups supported the deal. The Assembly of Christian Churches, an affiliate of the Viti Landowners and Resources Association, supported the deal and stated that it had no doubts about the bona fides of the OITC.

In the end, the deal apparently fell through after the Fiji Islands Trade and Investment Board (FTIB) rejected an application to set up a bank, which had been submitted by an entity called Triunion Investment Holdings Limited on behalf of the OITC. The FTIB found that the OITC "neither has any fixed address or office nor are there any reliable contact addresses which are pivotal for approval of applications." The decision produced an angry response from the head of the VLRA, who vowed that "Our relationship with the OITC will continue no matter what."

OITC story unravels

In 2010, the secretive OITC surfaced in Cambodia’s capital Phnom Penh. The real estate firm Asia Real Property Co, Ltd identified itself in promotional material as the subsidiary of an international real estate consultancy known as "ARP-OITC Group Co Ltd (Cambodia)". This was posted on a signboard in front of the office on Phnom Penh’s Norodom Boulevard.

During an interview with the Phnom Penh Post in October 2010 at the ARP-OITC offices in Phnom Penh, executive managing director Soush Saroeun claimed that the firm was involved in joint ventures with companies from France, Canada and Vietnam. As proof of his claim, he provided a document dated December 29, 2009, that was purportedly signed by HSBC Group Finance Director "Dr David J Flint". As of December 2009, HSBC’s Group Finance Director was Douglas Flint.

Soush Saroeun were arrested on December 18, 2010 on Street 240 in the Daun Penh district. According to Cambodia’s Minister of Information Khieu Kanharith, Prime Minister Hun Sen had personally ordered investigation into the case, On December 20, 2010, the two were charged with forgery by the Phnom Penh Municipal Court after allegedly fabricating documents claiming ties to the United Nations, the United States government and HSBC Bank. Keith Scott left Cambodia hurriedly, shortly after these arrests.