[Source: PubMed]

86. Lancet. 2023 Oct 28;402(10412):1507-1510. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(23)01775-0.
 Epub 2023 Sep 6.

The 100 Days Mission: how a new medical-countermeasures network can deliver 
equity and innovation.

Dzau V(1), Swaminathan S(2), Baker C(3), Bright RA(4), Castillo J(5), Chuan 
TC(6), Draghia-Akli R(7), Eardley-Patel R(8), Gao GF(9), Ishii K(10), Tebeje 
YK(11), Lambe T(12), Machingaidze S(11), Røttingen JA(13), Shaligram U(14), 
Simão M(15), Swarup R(16), Toussaint JF(17), Wairagkar NS(11).

Author information:
(1)US National Academy of Medicine, Washington, DC, USA.
(2)M S Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai, India.
(3)International Pandemic Preparedness Secretariat, London NW1 2BE, UK. 
Electronic address: c.baker@ippsecretariat.org.
(4)Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics, Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)Univercells, Nivelles, Belgium.
(6)Singapore Ministry of Health, Singapore.
(7)Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.
(8)Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, London, UK.
(9)Savaid Medical School, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(10)Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(11)Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, African Union Commission, 
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(12)Medical Sciences Divison, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(13)Norwegian Foreign Ministry, Oslo, Norway.
(14)Serum Institute of India, Pune, India.
(15)Instituto Todos Pela Saúde, São Paulo, Brazil.
(16)Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government 
of India, New Delhi, India.
(17)Sanofi Vaccines, Gentilly, France.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(23)01775-0
PMID: 37683681

Conflict of interest statement: All authors, except CB, are members of the 
Science and Technology Expert Group for the 100 Days Mission. CB is the Deputy 
Head of the International Pandemic Preparedness Secretariat, which is hosted by 
Wellcome, and is a former employee of WHO. VD is the President of the US 
National Academy of Medicine. SS is the former Chief Scientist at WHO. RAB is 
the former Director of the US Biomedical Advanced Research and Development 
Authority (BARDA), is on the Scientific Advisory Board for Qiagen, is on the 
Board of Directors for Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics, and holds 
stock in Cue Health. JC is the Chief Technology Officer of Univercells and the 
Chief Executive Officer of Quantoom Biosciences. TCC is the Chief Health 
Scientist at the Singapore Ministry of Health and is the Executive Director of 
the Office for Healthcare Transformation of the Singapore Ministry of Health. 
RD-A is the Global Head at Johnson & Johnson Global Public Health Research and 
Development, which receives grants and contracts from BARDA, the US National 
Institutes of Health (NIH), the EU (including the Innovative Health Initiative), 
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Flanders Agency Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship, the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials 
Partnership, and the Singapore Agency for Science, Technology and Research; is 
Co-Chair of the Therapeutics Clinical Working Group of Accelerating COVID-19 
Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines at NIH; is a board member of the INTREPID 
Alliance; is a member of the American Society of Gene Therapy; and holds stock 
and stock options with Merck Sharp & Dohme and Johnson & Johnson. RE-P is the 
acting Chief of Staff for the Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness Innovations 
(CEPI) Manufacturing and Supply Chain division. GFG is the Dean of the Savaid 
Medical School (University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China). KI 
is the Director of the International Vaccine Design Center (Institute of Medical 
Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan) and is a member of Scientific 
Advisory Committees for CEPI and the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund. 
YKT is the Head of the Division of Laboratory Systems and Networks at Africa 
Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC). TL received support 
through a grant from the University of Oxford (Oxford, UK) to support the 
running of the Vaccine Taskforce via the UK National Institute for Health and 
Care Research trial and the AstraZeneca partnership for development of COVID-19 
vaccines, was a consultant to Vaccitech, and is an inventor on a patent 
application for a vaccine against SARS CoV-2. SM is Chief Science Officer for 
Africa CDC. J-AR is the Ambassador for Global Health at the Norwegian Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs; is a Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance board member representing 
the Nordic+ constituency; and is the former technical-level Co-Chair of the 
Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator Facilitation Council. US is the Executive 
Director of the Serum Institute of India. MS is the former WHO Assistant 
Director-General for Drug Access, Vaccines and Pharmaceuticals. RS is the former 
Secretary of the Department of Biotechnology at the Indian Ministry of Science 
and Technology. J-FT is the Head of Research and Development at Sanofi Vaccines; 
owns shares from Sanofi; and received shares from GlaxoSmithKline until January, 
2021, as a former employee. NSW is the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of 
Vaccines for All and is a consultant to Africa CDC for the Partnership for 
Africa Vaccine Manufacturing initiative at CEPI India.