[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Local development framework

ave policies had the intended consequences?
 Are the assumptions and objectives behind policies still relevant?
 Are the targets set in the Local Development Framework being achieved?

To achieve this goal, the Annual Monitoring Report includes a range of local and standard (Core Output) indicators.

Optional development plan documents
Area Action Plan: an optional development plan document aimed at establishing a set of proposals and policies for the development of a specific area (such as a town centre or an area of new development) of a district authority. There is no limit on the number of area action plans that a local authority can develop.
Supplementary planning documents: established as part of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 in United Kingdom law, SPDs may cover a range of issues, thematic or site-specific, and provides further detail of policies and proposals in a 'parent' development plan document.
Local development orders
Simplified planning zones

Sometimes certain policies from an old document remain effective when that document is superseded. These policies are known as "saved" policies.

Legal requirements of all local development documents
They should be prepared in accordance with the local development scheme and should have regard to :
National policies and advice contained in guidance issued by the Secretary of State,
The regional spatial strategy for the region in which the area of the authority is situated, if the area is outside Greater London. Also the RSS for any region which adjoins the area of the authority or the Wales Spatial Plan if any part of the authority's area adjoins Wales
The spatial development strategy if the authority is London borough or if any part of the authority's area adjoins Greater London
The community strategy prepared by the authority and also any other authority whose area comprises any part of the area of the local planning authority
Any other local development documents which has been adopted by the authority
The resources likely to be available for implementing the proposals in the document
Such other matters as the Secretary of State prescribes. 
They should comply with the statement of community involvement (once the statement is adopted)
The local planning authority must appraise the sustainability of each development plan document and report the findings.

Development plan documents  are subject to rigorous procedures of community involvement, consultation and independent examination. Once adopted, development control decisions must be made in accordance with the DPDs unless material considerations indicate otherwise.

DPDs must be examined with a sustainability appraisal to ensure economic, environmental and social effects of the plan are in line with sustainable development targets.

Key government aims
Flexibility
Strengthening community and stakeholder involvement
Front-loading sometimes – local authorities to take key decisions early in the preparation of local development documents.
Sustainability appraisal
Programme management
Soundness – local development documents must be soundly based in terms of their content and the process by which they are produced. The must also be based upon a robust, credible evidence base.

Criticism
In practice, many local authorities have found Local Development Frameworks difficult to implement. Although progress on Local Development Frameworks was made in the years 2012–2015, an assessment by Nathaniel Lichfield and Partners has found any progress to be "marginal".

See also
Development control in the United Kingdom
London Plan
Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004
Planning Policy Statements
Town and country planning in the United Kingdom

References

External links
Government Website on PPS12
Making the system work better: planning at regional and local levels (ODPM)
Visual Guide to LDF
Planning Portal visual guide to Local Development Frameworks
PAS Plan Making Manual
Statutory Instrument (2004/2204) - Area Action Plans

United Kingdom planning policy