[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Disaster risk reduction

are acceptable for women and men, and girls and boys. In particular, women tend to take responsibility for home-based tasks and can be reluctant to leave their assets in the case of hazard warning; and often do not learn survival skills that can help in disasters, such as learning to swim or climb.

A gender-sensitive approach would identify how disasters affect men, women, boys and girls differently and shape policy that addresses people's specific vulnerabilities, concerns and needs.

Examples

Bangladesh 
Based on the Climate Risk Index, Bangladesh is one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world. Bangladesh is highly vulnerable to different types of disasters because of climatic variability, extreme events, high population density, high incidence of poverty and social inequity, poor institutional capacity, inadequate financial resources, and poor infrastructure. Bangladesh commenced its disaster preparedness following the cyclone of 1991 and has now a comprehensive National Plan for Disaster Management which provides mechanisms at both national and sub-national levels.

European Union 

In addition to providing funding to humanitarian aid, the European Commission's Directorate-General for European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (DG-ECHO) is in charge of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism  to coordinate the response to disasters in Europe and beyond and contributes to at least 75% of the transport and/or operational costs of deployments. Established in 2001, the Mechanism fosters cooperation among national civil protection authorities across Europe. Currently 34 countries are members of the Mechanism; all 27 EU Member States in addition to Iceland, Norway, Serbia, North Macedonia, Montenegro, Turkey and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Mechanism was set up to enable coordinated assistance from the participating states to victims of natural and man-made disasters in Europe and elsewhere.

See also

 Business continuity planning
 Center for Natural Hazards Research
 Emergency management
 Global catastrophic risk
 International Day for Disaster Reduction
 Risk management
 Vulnerability
 Hazard map

References

External links
 Ecosystem-based Disaster Risk Reduction
Disaster Risk Management Society, GC University, Lahore. 
 Asian Disaster Preparedness Center
 FAO –  Platform for East and Central Africa
 EM-DAT: The International Disaster Database
 Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery
 United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction
 Preventionweb – Building the resilience of nations and communities to disasters
 The World Bank, Hazards Management Unit
 United Nations Platform for Space-based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response

Disaster preparedness
Disaster management
Humanitarian aid
Natural disasters
International development
Climate change adaptation