[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tang campaign against the Eastern Turks

remained nominally submissive to Tang, remaining formally respectful to Taizong, while at the same time trying to affirm Xueyantuo's control over the region. The Khaganate's former vassals of the Khitan, Xī (奚), and Xí (霫) tribes directly submitted to the Tang, as did the city kingdom of Yiwu (伊吾).

Brief attempt to recreate Eastern Turkic Khaganate under Ashina Simo 

In 639, Ashina Jiesheshuai, Ashina Shibobi's brother, attempted to assassinate Taizong. Ashina Jiesheshuai was said to live immorally and corruptly; he resented being rebuked by Ashina Shibobi, and in turn falsely accused Ashina Shibobi of treason. Taizong disliked Ashina Jiesheshuai for the false accusation and refused to promote him. Ashina Jiesheshuai formed a conspiracy with 40-some of his former subordinates and Ashina Hexian'gu (阿史那賀暹鶻), Ashina Shibobi's to kill Taizong. On 19 May 639, they hid outside Taizong's palace, intending to charge inside at dawn when the gates opened to allow Li Zhi, the Prince of Jin, to leave. However, Li Zhi did not leave early because of strong winds, so Ashina Jiesheshuai attacked the gate rather than risk discovery after dawn. Imperial guard commander Sun Wukai (孫武開) led a resolute defence; after killing tens of guardsmen, Ashina Jiesheshuai fled northward on guard horses. The conspirators were captured; Ashina Hexian'gu was exiled and the remainder were executed.

The assassination attempt provoked a change to the policy of Turkic resettlement. On 13 August 639, Taizong ordered the resettlement of Eastern Turks and Xiongnu north of the Yellow River between the Great Wall and the Gobi Desert. Ashina Simo was created as the Yiminishuqilibi Khan (or Qilibi Khan for short) to govern them. The Eastern Turks feared the Xueyantuo and initially refused; Taizong responded by issuing an edict to Yi'nan, delivered by official Guo Siben (郭嗣本), stating:

Yi'nan was unhappy with the Eastern Turkic Khaganate's reestablishment but signalled compliance.  The Eastern Turks remained willing to follow Ashina Simo north, and the Khaganate was reestablished as a Tang vassal. Taizong also made Ashina Zhong (阿史那忠, Ashina Sunishi's son) and Ashina Nishou (阿史那泥熟) princes to assist Ashina Simo — although, perhaps foreshadowing what would eventually happen, Ashina Zhong was said to miss life in Chang'an so much that he begged all imperial emissaries sent to the Khaganate to intercede to allow him to return to Chang'an, a request that Taizong eventually approved. In spring 640, Taizong established a general post near the Khaganate to help defend it.

In spring 641, Ashina Simo's people finally crossed the Yellow River, and he established his headquarters at Dingxiang. He was said to have 30,000 households, 40,000 troops, and 90,000 warhorses. Ashina Simo requested, and received, permission from Taizong to withdraw south of the Great Wall should the fledgling Khaganate be attacked by the stronger Xueyantuo.

In winter 641, Yi'nan believed that the ritual journey to Mount Tai by Taizong and the Tang army presented an opportunity to quickly destroy the Khaganate. An Xueyantuo army was deployed to attack Khaganate; it was led by Dadu (大度), Yi'nan's son, and  also included troops conscripted from the vassal Tiele tribes of the Bayegu (拔也古), Tongluo (同羅), Pugu (僕骨), Uyghurs (回纥), Adie (阿跌), and Xí (霫). An anticipated, Ashina Simo was forced to withdraw behind the Great Wall to Shuo Prefecture (朔州, roughly modern Shuozhou, Shanxi) and seek emergency aid. The Tang responded with an army led by General Li Shiji, assisted by Generals Zhang Jian (張儉), Li Daliang, Zhang Shigui (張士貴), and Li Xiyu (李襲譽). The Xueyantuo suffered a major defeat and heavy casualties in the new year of 642 and retreated. A Tang emissary was sent to rebuke Yi'nan but no further action was taken against the Xueyantuo. The Xueyantuo continued to harass the Khagante, while attempting to maintain peaceful relations with the Tang; at one point Yi'nan was engaged to Taizong's daughter Princess Xinxing, but Taizong regretted the arrangement and cancelled the marriage in 643 on the pretense that Yi'nan's bride price (with livestock) was not paid for on time. More Tang emissaries were sent to order the Xueyantuo to stop attacking the Khaganate, to which Yi'nan:

Around the new year 645, the Khaganate collapsed; apparently its population was pressured by the Xueyantuo to abandon Ashina Simo. At this time, the Tang were preparing to attack Goguryeo and may not have been able to respond to an Xueyantuo attack. The Eastern Turks resettled south of the Yellow River in the  Sheng (勝州, also in modern Hohhot, but south of the Yellow River) and Xiazhou (夏州, roughly modern Yulin) Prefectures. Taizong endorsed the migration over the opposition of his officials. Ashina Simo was made a general upon returning to China. The Tang made no further attempts to create an Eastern Turkic vassal.

Later campaign against Ashina Tuobo