[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of the Saw

avage nature of the war Hamilcar had all prisoners executed, whenever possible by being trampled to death by elephants. This had the counter-productive effect of encouraging the rebels to fight on, even in the most trying of circumstances. The rebels spared, but enslaved, any Carthaginians captured.

Trap
Eventually Hamilcar trapped the rebels in a pass or pinned them against a mountain range; some nearby hills or mountains were known as "the Saw" because of their supposed likeness of their outline to the tool. Hoyos suggests that the rebels had relaxed their guard in a supposedly secure area believing that they had broken contact with the Carthaginians, but that Naravas's skilled scouts identified their location. They were then surprised by Hamilcar, and deterred from immediate attack by his elephants and cavalry superiority. By the time they had grasped the situation the Carthaginian army had fortified itself in positions where the terrain was what Polybius describes as "unhelpful" to the rebels and any attack by them was clearly hopeless. The rebels at this point were estimated to still be more than 40,000 strong, excluding slaves and prisoners. They had access to water but none to food, and had likely already foraged the immediate area bare. The Carthaginians could move freely to gather food from a wide area.

Pinned against mountains and with their food exhausted, over several weeks the rebels ate their horses, their prisoners and then their slaves. Several messengers were despatched to Tunis; it is not known if any got through. The rebels hung on, hoping that Mathos would sortie from Tunis to rescue them. Whether or not Mathos was informed of events, he did not move. Possibly he was not informed, or possibly he felt pinned in place by the 10,000 defenders of Carthage under Hanno. The surrounded troops blamed their leaders for their situation and eventually they were forced to attempt a parley with Hamilcar. Hamilcar took Spendius, Autaritus, Zarzas and their lieutenants prisoner and the Carthaginians then attacked the leaderless, starving rebels with their whole force, led by their elephants. All of the rebels were killed; any who surrendered were thrown under the feet of the elephants. Carthaginian casualties were light.

Aftermath

Hamilcar then marched on Tunis and laid siege to it in late 238BC. The city was difficult to access from both the east and the west, so Hamilcar occupied a position to the south with half the army, and his deputy Hannibal was to the north with the balance. The rebel leaders taken captive prior to the Saw were crucified in full view of the city. Mathos ordered a large-scale night attack, which surprised the Carthaginians, who suffered many casualties. One of their camps was overrun and they lost much of their baggage; Hannibal and a delegation of 30 Carthaginian notables who were visiting the army were captured. They were tortured and then nailed to the crosses previously occupied by Spendius and his colleagues. Hamilcar abandoned the siege and withdrew to the north.

Mathos led the rebel army  south to the wealthy port city of Leptis Parva (just south of the modern city of Monastir, Tunisia). Hanno and Hamilcar marched after the rebels with an army totalling over 25,000 men and many war elephants, including every Carthaginian citizen of military age. At the ensuing battle the rebels were crushed. Captives were sold into slavery. Mathos was captured; he was dragged through the streets of Carthage and tortured to death by its citizens.

Most of the towns and cities which had not already come to terms with Carthage now did so, with the exceptions of Utica and Hippo, whose inhabitants feared vengeance for their massacre of Carthaginians. They attempted to hold out, but Polybius says that they too "quickly" surrendered, probably in late 238BC or very early 237BC. The surrendered towns and cities were treated leniently, although Carthaginian governors were imposed on them.

Notes, citations and sources

Notes

Citations

Sources

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The Saw
Saw 238 BC
Saw
Saw