[Source: PubMed]

44. Global Health. 2016 May 6;12(1):17. doi: 10.1186/s12992-016-0152-1.

Developing a framework for successful research partnerships in global health.

Larkan F(1), Uduma O(2), Lawal SA(3), van Bavel B(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Global Health, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland. 
larkanf@tcd.ie.
(2)Centre for Global Health, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(3)Department of Sociology/Psychology, OlabisiOnabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, 
Ogun State, Nigeria.

BACKGROUND: The Centre for Global Health, Trinity College Dublin has as one of 
its goals, strengthening health systems in developing countries. In realising 
this goal we work across more than 40 countries with third-level, civil society, 
government, private sector and UN partners. Each of these requires that 
different relationships be established. Good principles must guide all global 
health research partnerships. An exploratory research project was undertaken 
with research partners of, and staff within, the Centre for Global Health. The 
aim was to build an evidence-based framework.
METHODS: An inductive exploratory research process was undertaken using a 
grounded theory approach in three consecutive phases: Phase I: An open-ended 
questionnaire was sent via email to all identified partners. Phase II: A series 
of consultative meetings were held with the staff of the Centre for Global 
Health. Phase III: Data sets from Phases I and II were applied to the 
development of a unifying framework. Data was analysed using grounded theory 
three stage thematic analysis - open, axial and selective coding.
RESULTS: Relational and operational aspects of partnership were highlighted as 
being relevant across every partnership. Seven equally important core concepts 
emerged (focus, values, equity, benefit, leadership, communication and 
resolution), and are described and discussed here. Of these, two (leadership and 
resolution) are less often considered in existing literature on partnerships.
CONCLUSIONS: Large complex partnerships can work well if all parties are agreed 
in advance to a common minimum programme, have been involved from the design 
stage, and have adequate resources specifically allocated. Based on this 
research, a framework for partnerships has been developed and is shared.

DOI: 10.1186/s12992-016-0152-1
PMCID: PMC4859962
PMID: 27154550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]