[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument (Cleveland)

the yearly flower displays which have been a tradition since 1894.

There is a United States Geological Survey marker installed on the Northwest side of the esplanade. The benchmark was likely placed around the turn of the century and indicates an elevation of 668 feet above sea level.

Landscaping 

As part of the original designs of the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Monument, the flower beds surrounding the structure were decorated with the insignias of the corps badges used throughout the Civil War, as well as various other military imagery. These designs were maintained in some form for much of the history of the structure until the 1988 redesign of the southeast quadrant which changed the layout and position of the gardens. The more modern shape of the gardens that came out of the redesign of Public Square in 2016 resulted in additional changes to the exterior landscaping. While the corps badge insignias are still included in the designs of the North and West beds, the South and East beds now incorporate other designs such as a G.A.R. badge, a patriotic swoosh, and an anchor.

Statuary Groupings 
The upper esplanade is made of red Medina sandstone and features four large bronze statuary groupings: Mortar Practice, At Short Range, The Color Guard, and the Advanced Guard. The bronze statuary groupings stand atop Berea sandstone pedestals and depict scenes featuring the four branches of the armed forces at the time of the Civil War.

Mortar Practice 
Mortar Practice honors the Navy and features no casualties. It depicts a scene near Island No. 10 on the Mississippi River, where an officer and five men are loading a mortar, in preparation for the shelling of entrenchments.

At Short Range 
At Short Range honors the Artillery. An officer is seen attempting to aim a cannon, unaware that two of his men have fallen.

The Color Guard 
The Color Guard honors the Infantry and is the only statuary that depicts a known battle. Levi T. Scofield, who served in the 103rd Ohio Volunteer Infantry Regiment, chose to depict the 103rd engaged in the Battle of Resaca, Georgia. This was largely considered to be a Union defeat and the grouping is Scofield's memorial to his regiment and the men lost in the battle. Every figure in this grouping has been killed or wounded.

The Advanced Guard 
The Advanced Guard honors the Cavalry. It depicts a Union detachment that has encountered enemy troops. A Union trooper, still astride his injured horse, is seen firing his pistol at an enemy soldier at point blank range. Another Union soldier is seen aiming his carbine southward. A bugler stands at the edge of the scene, summoning help for the embattled Union soldiers.

Interior design

Overview 
The interior of the monument is designed to serve as a memorial tablet room. It features marble tablets along the outer walls on which the names of the veterans from Cuyahoga County are engraved. The inner walls, which surround the base of the large granite shaft, feature four large bronze panels. The bronze panels include life-size depictions of allegorical scenes relating to the Civil War. Above the bronze panels on the inner walls are a series of medallions which depict notable military figures from throughout the Civil War. Above the memorial tablets on the outer walls sit a series of busts which depict notable individuals from Cuyahoga County who died as a result of their service.

Stained Glass Windows 
There are 14 stained glass windows which sit above the memorial tablets. Designed by a local glassworks known as H.W. Lewis & Co., they depict the arms and accoutrements of the various branches of the military corresponding to the statuary grouping outside. During the 2008 renovation, they were removed and re-leaded. This work was undertaken by Whitney Stained Glass Studios.

Bronze Panels

The Northern Ohio Soldiers’ Aid Society and Sanitary Commission 
Upon entering the South doors, the first panel one will encounter honors the Northern Ohio Soldiers’ Aid Society & Sanitary Commission. Begun in April 1861, shortly after the firing of Fort Sumter, the Soldiers’ Aid Society provided support both for soldiers stationed at the many nearby camps, as well to the local families of soldiers who had left to fight on behalf of the Union. The Soldiers’ Aid Society became a branch of the United States Sanitary Commission, a national organization mostly of women that supported the soldiers of the Union Army by providing supplies, medical expertise, and other services such as soldiers’ homes. Despite being a smaller branch compared to other parts of the Union, the women of the Northern Ohio Sanitary Commission raised nearly $1,000,000 worth of supplies to support the Union soldiers. Recognizing the efforts of women in this manner was progressive for the time.