[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hugh Rodham (born 1950)

back room, and every now and then you could hear him raise his voice and tell them to get with it and let's go. ... He was assiduous in protecting his clients' rights, but he was also extraordinarily helpful in making sure his clients understood that here was a real chance to solve their problems."

In 1993, Hugh Rodham and his brother Tony ignited a small controversy when they tried to solicit corporate donations for Clinton's inaugural parties; they dropped the effort after a public outcry.
Once the Clintons entered the White House, Rodham became a sometime golfing buddy of the President and he and Maria often joined family get-togethers at Camp David. When Clinton was having trouble with his cabinet nominations, Rodham recommended Reno to the president for appointment as U.S. Attorney General.

Run for U.S. Senate

Rodham left the public defenders office to run for the United States Senate in Florida in 1994. He had some basic problems as a candidate, including having to explain why he had never registered to vote in the state until 1992.  In addition, his campaign manager left the campaign after not getting paid for weeks when told there was no money but discovered that funds were in the account he actually set up. Rodham did not always demonstrate a deep understanding of the political issues of the day and had difficulty being taken seriously by political commentators.

In the contest for the Democratic Party nomination, Rodham competed in a four-person primary field and finished first with 34 percent, which meant there would be a runoff election. After the first primary, the third-place finisher, Miami lawyer Ellis Rubin, joined forces with Rodham as a "senior executive consultant" and hatchet man.

The second-place finisher and other entrant in the runoff was Mike Wiley, a talk radio personality and advocate of UFO conspiracy theories. In the presence of Rodham at a press conference, Rubin leveled the accusation that Wiley was hiding his Jewish faith by changing his name from his birth name, Michael Schreiber, and that Wiley "changed his name before the campaign to deceive voters about his Jewish religion."  Rodham won the runoff contest by a margin of 58 to 42 percent, but as a result of the friction that had developed, Wiley refused to endorse Rodham afterward.

In the general election contest against incumbent Republican Senator Connie Mack III, Rodham had few funds, only one television commercial, and little support from the Florida Democratic party establishment in a year that saw Republican gains everywhere. Bill and Hillary Clinton both campaigned for Rodham, but his organization was unable to take advantage of their help. In one case late in the race, Bill Clinton flew to Miami to speak at a rally for Rodham but only 200 people were in the audience due to poor advance work by the campaign.

In November 1994, Rodham lost by a margin of more than 40 points to Mack.  Rodham lost in even normally Democratic areas such as Broward County.
 
After the election, Rubin switched allegiance again and charged Rodham with election law violations in the first primary. The Federal Elections Commission eventually dismissed the allegations.

Rodham then had some involvement in Broward County politics, supporting a candidate for the County Commission who lost. He subsequently tried to unseat the Dade County Democratic Party Chairman; after badly losing that race, he disappeared from the Florida political scene.

Return to law
After losing the Senate race, Rodham returned to law, while also trying his hand at hosting a syndicated talk radio show around 1996. The radio show failed to find an audience. During 1995 through 1997 Rodham started working on a very large tobacco lawsuit with other attorneys; observers were puzzled as to Rodham's involvement, given his limited experience in the area, and speculated that influence peddling might be the reason.  The massive case eventually failed to gain Congressional approval, but by one report a 2002 settlement involved in it made Rodham financially secure.

In 1999, Hugh and brother Tony Rodham entered into a $118 million venture to grow and export hazelnuts from the Republic of Georgia.  The U.S. State Department and National Security Advisor Sandy Berger became upset, however, when the Rodhams' local business connection in Batumi turned out to be Aslan Abashidze, a major political opponent of Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze, then a key U.S. ally in the region.  After initial resistance, Berger and the Clintons prevailed upon the Rodham brothers to drop the deal.  Hugh Rodham stated that he was only acting as a lawyer for the venture and did not have money invested in it.