[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexandra Billings

e, Musicale Finale.

From 2020, Billings appeared in a recurring role as Robin, a transgender supervisor at Wellman Plastics and mentor to Darlene Conner on ABC's The Conners.

She had a recurring role as Inspector Ainsley Lowbeer in the 2022 Amazon Prime Video science fiction series The Peripheral.

Teaching 
She has taught Viewpoints, a theater method, at the Steppenwolf Summer School. She also taught at Lewis University, The University of Chicago, Illinois University, the Illinois Theatre Convention, Act One Studios, and classes and workshops around the Chicago area, as well as the Steppenwolf School West in Los Angeles California.

Billings is a theater professor at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. Before working at USC, she was an assistant professor at California State University, Long Beach. She received her MFA from CSULB, and delivered the commencement speech for CSULB College of the Arts in 2015.

Activism 
Billings is an AIDS and LGBTQ activist and advocate for the equality of the LGBTQ community and has encouraged others to use their voices to create change within the LGBTQ community.

In 2016, Billings was awarded the Human Rights Campaign Visibility Award in recognition of outstanding members of the LGBTQ community who live openly and freely in the public eye. After receiving the award, Billings thanked the audience, but also said, "I look around and I see you all and I cannot tell you how grateful I am that you're here, and I have to say something to you - I think you look great, you look swell and it's wonderful that you're here eating the chicken - it's delightful, but I must tell you that we have to do something more than sit and speak and talk to our neighbors and eat great food and put on fancy clothes."

In 2017, Transparent won the GLAAD Media Award for Outstanding Comedy Series. When accepting the award on behalf of the cast, Billings urged the audience to talk to people who disagree with their beliefs in order to spark conversation and create change instead of staying complacent. Specifically, she called out the older LGBTQ generation and asks them to guide the younger LGBTQ generation because they will be the ones continuing the fight for equality in the future.

When delivering the commencement speech to the graduating class of the California State University, Long Beach in 2015, Billings once again emphasized the importance of voice when she told the students that it is their job is to speak loud, big, and wide in order to spread their voices.

Personal life 
Billings lives in Hollywood, California, with her wife Chrisanne, whom she initially met at age fourteen in drama class. They were married in a commitment ceremony in Chicago on December 4, 1995. Billings was chosen as the Grand Marshal for the Pride Parade in Chicago, Illinois on June 28, 2009.

Billings started her gender transition in 1980. She has been living with HIV since 1985, and has been an advocate for HIV health initiatives, as well as trans issues and trans rights. When talking about her fight to battle AIDS, she says that she believes the reason she has survived all these years is due to her wife's support. She has spoken about living with HIV in a number of interviews, including a 2016 article with her hometown paper. She also spoke to POZ magazine for a 2003 interview about life with HIV. In 2022, she published her memoir This Time for Me: A Memoir.

Filmography

Film

Television

Theatre

References

External links

Alexandra Billings at Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame

American transgender actors
LGBT people from Illinois
Transgender actresses
American television actresses
Actresses from Los Angeles County, California
Living people
1962 births
Actors from Inglewood, California
21st-century American actresses
LGBT people from California
University of Southern California faculty
People from Schaumburg, Illinois
People with HIV/AIDS
Transgender academics
American women academics
21st-century American LGBT people
American actors with disabilities
Beauty pageant contestants with disabilities
Scholars and academics with disabilities