[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mount Tabor, New Jersey

nhouse association. The CMA is governed by twelve elected homeowners, empowered to act as the board of trustees of the CMA. Mount Tabor homeowners own their houses but lease the land on which the homes are built (a land-lease arrangement). The land is leased yearly from the CMA for a nominal amount.

Camp meetings
In August 1869, the crowds of Methodist campers, many of whom were from the large industrial cities in northern New Jersey, gathered in the rustic area for the ten-day camp meeting.  Before living in tents, many members set up home in their horse driven wagons in which they rode to the camp meeting.  Many tent owners built wooden floors and cabinets inside their tents to protect belongings from the long, cold winter when the campers returned home (you can see still see this unique style of summer tent living in Ocean Grove today).  Over the years the more affluent members of the community, prominent lawyers, ministers and doctors from the Jersey City, Newark, Paterson, Elizabeth and Morristown areas, were building decorative Victorian-style homes (albeit small enough to fit on the  tent lots), to make their encampment in the summer more comfortable.

The annual camp meetings, held for about ten days each August, were facilitated by the Camp Meeting Association trustees under the oversight of the Newark Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. The main focus of the camp meeting was to conduct religious services, which included preaching and prayer, and for the purpose of religious education.

Religious services were held once a day (Monday through Saturday), and three times on Sunday.  During one early Sunday camp meeting it was said that such an enormous crowd of people (of up to 10,000) gathered that, besides the three regular services, two additional ministers preached simultaneously at different areas in Trinity Place, sometimes known as "The Circle".  In addition to attending services, families strolled along trails which wound their way through the woodlands of Mount Tabor and Tabor Lake.

Those campers unaccustomed to "roughing it" in tents the country could choose to board at the new Arlington Hotel.  The hotel was built in 1877 by Trustee David Campbell with the understanding that when he had reimbursed himself from its income, the building would become the property of the association.  However, over time the quaint Arlington fell into such disrepair it had to be taken down many years ago. Part of the foundation remains and is being used as a retaining wall for the town's parking lot.

Over the years, the crowds that swarmed into Mount Tabor for the annual Camp Meeting diminished except for a few hundred persons who decided to stay and set up year-round homes where tents once stood.  Some older residents who attended the camp meetings believed the decreasing crowds were caused by regulations such as the one that prohibited parking of wagons on the campgrounds.  This measure was enacted to deal with the numbers of people who came to the camp meetings purely for the pleasure of the surroundings. Traffic in the town would be banned from midnight Sunday to midnight Monday, much as it was in Ocean Grove until 1980.  In 1911, as allowed by the charter of 1869,  homes were established under a 99-year lease to the Camp Meeting Association (home prices ranged from $300 to $2,500).  In 1969, the 99-year leases ended and were renewed as a perpetual lease.  Mount Tabor homeowners (known as "Leaseholders") paid a yearly rent to the Camp Meeting Association  for their lots with their town assessment and township taxes.  The association rent is now proportionately low; two dollars per year for small lots and four dollars a year for the larger ones.

As the tents gave way to small cottages, development in Mount Tabor developed spread out from Trinity Place, an area that included three octagonal buildings - the Tabernacle and Bethel, and Ebenezer pavilions. Since there were no longer crowds of people, the Bethel was large enough to house the townspeople during Sunday service.  A minister was hired each Sunday by the CMA to lead services in this building.  Used as a court when Mount Tabor was a municipality (with the basement acting as the jail), the Bethel is now used for civic affairs, residents' use, and by the Board of Trustees for monthly public meetings.

Children's Day
What has come to be known as Children's Day started in the 1870s as a Sunday School parade around Trinity Place, the original location of the camp meeting religious services. Following the parade the children were treated to ice cream, compliments of Day's ice cream tent (a Day's Ice Cream Store still exists in Ocean Grove).

The Children's Day custom is known as "Walking Day" in England, where churches organize parades, provide refreshments to participants and generally have a holiday.  Children's Day has evolved into a unique community festival in Mount Tabor and is still a focal point of summer on "The Hill".