[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Agiasos

itchers, plates, etc., in order to meet the demands of the throngs of devout Christians.

Nowadays, a new series of pottery products has been introduced; small fonts (receptacles for holy water) used by the pilgrims to transport the holy water to their homes and other clay knickknacks and souvenirs.

It is noteworthy to say that, this increased demand for production combined with the migration to Agiasos of a great number of craftsmen from Çanakkale in Asia Minor, have contributed to a greater development of the art of ceramics in Agiasos than in the eastern areas of the island.

Due to these special circumstances, potters and other craftsmen have established trade unions, known as “sinafia”. A money box dating from 1864 is evidence of the existence of the “sinafia” of Agiasos.

However the flourishing art of ceramics in Agiasos, is slowly diminishing along with the old way of life, as a consequence of new needs society and introduction of new, more resistant materials in the market.

Thus, while 40 years ago there were 10 pottery workshops, only two operate today.

Still, the presence of art of ceramics in the town is apparent anyone who visits the town. The unique feature of the art of pottery in Agiasos is the multitude of small objects created to serve solely ornamental purposes. The themes portrayed on these objects are usually borrowed from the scenes of daily life in Agiasos, such as loaded donkeys, shepherds, women spinning wool, pitcher-whistles for little children – toys that whistle when water is added etc.

In the by-gone days, these potters created their clayware without the use of a potter's wheel. Today they use plaster casts (molds). Once the finishing touches are added to the product eliminate all traces left by the mold, the objects are painted with colours that are true to the prototypes that they portray.

Wood carving 

The traditional art of woodcraft using olive and walnut tree wood is particularly developed. Their carved icons and furniture of Agiasos which are hand wrought are displays of fine artistry for which wood carvers of Agiasos are famous.

The tradition of woodcarving is said to have its origins among the craftsmen who created the wood-carved iconostasis of the Church of Panayia in 1812. Originally these craftsmen were the Greeks of Asia Minor, who had astute apprentices from Agiasos to whom they passed on their trade and who inherited their legacy. The families of the “Sentoukadhes” (chest-makers) were named after the trade of some of their members were chest-makers who made fine “sentoukia” (chests/trunks). A large number of houses in Agiasos are decorated with old furniture (mainly chests) which are decorated with carved fretwork designs.

During the postwar times, Dhimitris Kamaros, the grandson of a wood-carver, carried on this trade. Most of today’s young carvers were his apprentices. Each of these fine carvers have evolved and developed their own personal style and personality.

Folklore tradition

There is a particularly rich folklore tradition in Agiasos.

The cultural lighthouse is the Reading Society "I ANAPTIXI" (development) the influence of which goes far beyond the town itself. The island was still under Turkish Domination, the Reading Society expressed the need of certain restless intellectuals for cultivation and information, through books and newspapers. Then in 1894 a night school, amateur theatre company, and choir which organised music – literary nights.

It was a nucleus of national uplifting and offered significant support to the Macedonian Struggle. Its activity and presence in the cultural and artistic life of Ayasos is significant up to our days. The Reading Society which is housed in a private building complex, just outside the lower entrance to the town, includes: a Library with over 20,000 volumes of old and new books on all every fields of science, a large reading room, a theatre for theatrical performances and screening of films, a folklore museum and an exhibition room with a permanent collection of paintings.

The Arts department stages a large number of plays of both foreign and Greek playwrights (In fact many are from Ayasos). Since 1954 the Reading Society has staged more than 35 theatrical plays. Some of its performances have been staged in Mytilene and almost all other villages of Lesvos, in Athens, Piraeus and even as far away as Australia, always with tremendous success.

The Chairman, Panos Pratsos, has been the soul of the Reading Society for the past forty five years. His knowledge and love for music resulted in the establishment of a Music department and the Children's Choir, which often make appearances. Lectures and literary events are also organised by the Reading Society.

Carnival