[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 219]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

e Doctrine:

The third Argument is, from those places of Scripture, by which all the
Faith required to Salvation is declared to be Easie. For if an inward
assent of the mind to all the Doctrines concerning Christian Faith now
taught, (whereof the greatest part are disputed,) were necessary to
Salvation, there would be nothing in the world so hard, as to be a
Christian. The Thief upon the Crosse though repenting, could not have
been saved for saying, "Lord remember me when thou commest into thy
Kingdome;" by which he testified no beleefe of any other Article, but
this, That Jesus Was The King. Nor could it bee said (as it is Mat.
11. 30.) that "Christs yoke is Easy, and his burthen Light:" Nor that
"Little Children beleeve in him," as it is Matth. 18.6. Nor could St.
Paul have said (1 Cor. 1. 21.) "It pleased God by the Foolishnesse of
preaching, to save them that beleeve:" Nor could St. Paul himself have
been saved, much lesse have been so great a Doctor of the Church
so suddenly, that never perhaps thought of Transsubstantiation, nor
Purgatory, nor many other Articles now obtruded.




From Formall And Cleer Texts

The fourth Argument is taken from places expresse, and such as receive
no controversie of Interpretation; as first, John 5. 39. "Search the
Scriptures, for in them yee thinke yee have eternall life; and they are
they that testifie of mee." Our Saviour here speaketh of the Scriptures
onely of the Old Testament; for the Jews at that time could not search
the Scriptures of the New Testament, which were not written. But the Old
Testament hath nothing of Christ, but the Markes by which men might
know him when hee came; as that he should descend from David, be born at
Bethlehem, and of a Virgin; doe great Miracles, and the like. Therefore
to beleeve that this Jesus was He, was sufficient to eternall life: but
more than sufficient is not Necessary; and consequently no other Article
is required. Again, (John 11. 26.) "Whosoever liveth and beleeveth in
mee, shall not die eternally," Therefore to beleeve in Christ, is faith
sufficient to eternall life; and consequently no more faith than that
is Necessary, But to beleeve in Jesus, and to beleeve that Jesus is the
Christ, is all one, as appeareth in the verses immediately following.
For when our Saviour (verse 26.) had said to Martha, "Beleevest thou
this?" she answereth (verse 27.) "Yea Lord, I beleeve that thou art the
Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world;" Therefore
this Article alone is faith sufficient to life eternall; and more than
sufficient is not Necessary. Thirdly, John 20. 31. "These things are
written that yee might beleeve, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of
God, and that beleeving yee might have life through his name." There, to
beleeve that Jesus Is The Christ, is faith sufficient to the obtaining
of life; and therefore no other Article is Necessary. Fourthly, 1 John
4. 2. "Every Spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the
flesh, is of God." And 1 Joh. 5. 1. "whosoever beleeveth that Jesus is
the Christ, is born of God." And verse 5. "Who is hee that overcommeth
the world, but he that beleeveth that Jesus is the Son of God?" Fiftly,
Act. 8. ver. 36, 37. "See (saith the Eunuch) here is water, what doth
hinder me to be baptized? And Philip said, If thou beleevest with all
thy heart thou mayst. And hee answered and said, I beleeve that Jesus
Christ is the Son of God." Therefore this Article beleeved, Jesus Is The
Christ, is sufficient to Baptisme, that is to say, to our Reception into
the Kingdome of God, and by consequence, onely Necessary. And generally
in all places where our Saviour saith to any man, "Thy faith hath saved
thee," the cause he saith it, is some Confession, which directly, or by
consequence, implyeth a beleef, that Jesus Is The Christ.




From That It Is The Foundation Of All Other Articles

The last Argument is from the places, where this Article is made the
Foundation of Faith: For he that holdeth the Foundation shall bee saved.
Which places are first, Mat. 24.23. "If any man shall say unto you, Loe,
here is Christ, or there, beleeve it not, for there shall arise false
Christs, and false Prophets, and shall shew great signes and wonders,
&c." Here wee see, this Article Jesus Is The Christ, must bee held,
though hee that shall teach the contrary should doe great miracles. The
second place is Gal. 1. 8. "Though we, or an Angell from Heaven preach
any other Gospell unto you, than that wee have preached unto you, let
him bee accursed." But the Gospell which Paul, and the other Apostles,
preached, was onely this Article, that Jesus Is The Christ; Therefore
for the Beleef of this Article, we are to reject the Authority of
an Angell from heaven; much more of any mortall man, if he teach the
contrary. This is therefore the Fundamentall Article of Christian Faith.
A third place is, 1 Joh. 4.1. "Beloved, beleeve not ev