[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Pre-election day events of the 2006 Singaporean general election

ntellectual content". He repeated his attack on 28 April saying "I want a world-class opposition, not this riffraff."

Lim Boon Heng (PAP) said that the SDP is already being written off by Singaporeans. Lee Hsien Loong said the opposition had no clear vision or views on Singapore's major challenges.

On 29 April, PM Lee Hsien Loong referred to his opponents at Ang Mo Kio GRC, the relatively young WP team, as "敢死队" (suicide squad) adding that even the bookies will not take a bet on the outcome in that constituency contest.

In response, WP's chief Low Thia Khiang said that it is better to be a "敢死队" (suicide squad) rather than a "怕死队" (squad that is scared to die). WP's candidate Yaw Shin Leong added that: "my courageous team-mates and myself are mentally prepared to lose but that does not mean we are push-overs."

James Gomez saga

Controversy arose during the election surrounding the application for a minority-race candidate certificate by WP candidate James Gomez. On 24 April, Gomez went to the Elections Department to fill up the minority-race candidate certificate application form accompanied by WP's chairman Sylvia Lim. Instead of handing in the application form to election official, Gomez slipped the form in his bag. At the time, Lim had gone to a waiting area and did not witness the event. However, on the eve of Nomination Day, James Gomez went to collect his minority-race candidate certificate claiming he had submitted the application form. Following two days of dispute between both sides, the Elections Department was able to produce video evidence showing that James Gomez did not submit the application form; a day later, James Gomez apologised to the Elections Department saying he was distracted by his busy schedule.

During the controversy, PAP raised questions about the credibility of James Gomez. He was also accused of attempting to discredit the Elections Department by claiming they misplaced the form. Despite not having enough concrete video or audio evidence, Deputy Prime Minister Wong Kan Seng and Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew called James Gomez a "liar" and Lee Kuan Yew dared Gomez to sue him and Wong Kan Seng. George Yeo (PAP) also suggested that WP should sack Gomez and field a four-member team for the five-member Group Representation Constituency.

Party political broadcast
Four contesting parties made their political broadcasts over television and radio in the four official languages — the English, Mandarin, Malay and Tamil languages, on broadcasts on 29 April and 4 May, respectively. Each party was given an allocated time based on the number of candidates it fielded. The People's Action Party (PAP) was given 12 minutes with 84 candidates fielded, the Workers' Party (WP) and Singapore Democratic Alliance (SDA) were given 4.5 minutes each with 20 candidates fielded, and the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) was given 2.5 minutes with 7 candidates fielded. The English broadcasts are available on YouTube.

SDP broadcast
The SDP was represented by Chee Siok Chin on both days. Chee said that while the ministers were enjoying high salaries, the lowest income group in Singapore were facing greater financial burden compounded by increasing cost of living. She said that financial difficulty has contributed to higher divorce, suicide rates and increase in bankruptcy filed in recent years.

Chee declared in the 4 May broadcast that the Ministers were paying themselves the highest political salaries in the world. She also declared that the PAP is trying to undermine the SDP, but the SDP will stand strong.

WP broadcast
The WP was represented by its chairman Sylvia Lim on 29 April. Lim said that the Workers' Party has a committed group of candidates in this election to pursue greater democracy in Singapore. She criticised the PAP for using taxpayers' money to selective upgrade constituencies that voted for the PAP. She called this a narrow-minded and divisive policy, and it encourages voters to act on self-interests instead of national interests. She added that this threatened to split the fabric of the nation, and run contrary to the spirit of national service that calls for personal sacrifice. She further labelled this as a time bomb and that it set a bad precedent on how the government allocates public funds and service. She asked voters not to succumb to the threat of the PAP, and to vote for the opposition needed to press the government on other important policies such as containing the cost of transport, utility and healthcare.

Lim also criticised the PAP for using public funding to give bonuses before election, calling it a populist budget. She also point out that the PAP had used its position as the government to entrench and promote the party through public funded grassroots organisations.  She questioned whether PAP is a first world government, which she said should put national interests ahead of party interests, and operate on a level playing field.