[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yitzhak Frenkel

Yitzhak Frenkel (; 1899–1981), also known as Isaac Frenkel or Alexandre Frenel, was an Israeli painter, sculptor and teacher.  He was one of the leading Jewish artists of the l’École de Paris and its chief practitioner in Israel, gaining international recognition during his lifetime.

Frenkel is considered the father of modern Israeli art. He is accredited with bringing the influence of the l’École de Paris to Israel, which until then was dominated by Orientalism.

Throughout his life he lived and worked in Portugal, South Africa, France, Odessa and Israel (especially in Tel Aviv and Safed).

He died in Tel Aviv in 1981 and was buried in Safed.

Early life

Odessa 
Yitzhak Frenkel was born in Odessa, Russian Empire to a Jewish family. He was a great-grandson of  Rabbi Levi Yitzchok of Berditchev. In his youth he studied in a yeshiva where he met Chaim Glicksberg. As a child he lived right next to Bialik's and Rawnitzki's publishing house "Moriah". In 1917, he studied under Aleksandra Ekster, an influential constructivist, cubist and futurist teacher and painter at the Fine Arts Academy in Odessa, one of the leading art schools in the Tsarist Russia. His early years in Odessa were characterized by famine, pogroms, war and factional fighting in the Russian Empire, prompting him to explore Utopian themes, the classics and deepen his studies in the Bible, Talmud and Gemara. These themes were incorporated in his future art.

Early influence on his Art 
Frenkel was also influenced by the paintings of the abstract musicalists shown in Odessa in 1917. Their symphonies of blue along with the musical nature of their colourful art were heavily present in Frenkel's later works. They took hold in Frenkel's attempts to express his deep feelings in his encounter with mystical Safed, their influence expresses itself in the painter's wandering blue strokes. The avant-garde art of Odessa and Russian in general would also manifest itself in some of Frenkel's works his thought and his early cubist and abstract art.

Frenkel immigrated to Mandate Palestine in 1919 with the first wave of settlers of the Third Aliyah, on board the SS. Ruslan.

First period in Mandatory Palestine

In 1920, he established the artists' cooperative in Jaffa and an artists' studio in Gymnasia Herzliya where gave lessons in painting and sculpture. He established the Ha-Tomer artists' cooperative along with the art patron Jacob Pereman, the painters Judith and Joseph Konstantinovsky Had Gadya and the sculptor Lev Halperin.

Having heard of Safed on the SS Ruslan from refugees from Safed as well as envoys of the Yishuv, Frenkel visited the city for the first time in 1920. Safed would become a major theme in Frenkel's art as well as a source of inspiration and later his home.

The battle of Tel Hai in 1920, prompted the quick gathering of young Jews to assist Joseph Trumpeldor and his company. However, they had arrived to late. Frenkel sketched and later painted the aftermath of the battle.

Later that year, he exhibited in Alexandria.

Formation in Paris

Frenkel and the École de Paris 
Frenkel then studied in  Paris at the École des Beaux-Arts and at the Académie de la Grande Chaumière at the studios of the sculptor Antoine Bourdelle and painter Henri Matisse. At the time his painting were abstract. Towards the end of 1920, he traveled to Egypt where he showcased his works in an exhibition before returning to Paris.

Frenkel arrived in Paris just a few months after the death of Modigliani. Frenkel's time in Paris was crucial in the formation of the young artist. Frenkel's expressionistic style developed greatly during this period. His early days in Paris were characterized by poverty and hunger. He was evicted from his room and forced to live in the streets and under the bridges, leading a life seeking only art and basic necessities. At last he received a living stipend/scholarship from Wormser, an aid to the Baron de Rothschild lifting him from poverty.

He lived in Montparnasse and  exhibited his work with his contemporaries, Chaim Soutine, Michel Kikoine, Jules Pascin along with other Jewish artists of the École de Paris. He would also spend time in La Ruche in Montparnasse where he would meet other painters of the era. Frenkel would participate in long sessions with his fellow Jewish artists; he described thus their art: "members of the minority characterized by restlessness whose expressionism is therefore extreme in its emotionalism". In this  period he also created abstract modernist works that were characteristic of the avant-garde trends in the French capital.