[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Islamic University of Gaza

abel that IUG is a "Hamas-controlled" institution. Just as Palestinians in Gaza belong to a variety of political parties, IUG's students, board, faculty and staff represent that reality. IUG is a university like any other in the Palestinian Territories that reflects the diversity of its population."

Steven Erlanger, former Jerusalem bureau chief of the New York Times, described the IUG as "one of the prime means for Hamas to convert Palestinians to its Islamist cause," in a 2007 piece about Palestinian infighting and Israeli airstrikes on the Gaza Strip. This report was criticised by political economist Sara Roy of Harvard University, who explicitly stated that 'there can be no question that Hamas works within the framework of Islamic institutions in the Gaza Strip, and that there are certain direct links between Hamas and many of the social and economic institutions (in the strip). ... However, it is far more questionable whether an automatic and inevitable link exists between Hamas and Islamic social and economic institutions, whether those links are inherently subversive, or whether such institutions promote radicalism and violence as is commonly assumed." Roy also writes: "logic maintains, institutional clients become automatically linked to Hamas and constitute a base of support for political Islam. As a result, Islamic social institutions become recruiting centers for the Hamas's military wing. There is however, little hard evidence to support any of these allegations."

Samar Sabih, considered Hamas's first female bombmaker, was recruited while studying at IUG in 2003, according to Israeli security officials.

Gallery

See also
 List of Islamic educational institutions
 List of Palestinian universities
 Education in the Palestinian territories

References

External links

 Official website
 Islamic University in photos
 General searching database for scholarships
 Publications of The Islamic University of Gaza (in Arabic)
 The Islamic University Conferences
 Report on connections between university and Hamas 

 
Universities and colleges established in 1978
1978 establishments in the Israeli Military Governorate
Gaza
Nursing schools in the State of Palestine
Rimal