[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Outline of biology

ins from extinct hominin and other primate species to determine the morphological and behavioral changes in the human lineage, as well as the environment in which human evolution occurred.
 Paleobotany – study of fossil plants.
 Paleontology – study of fossils and sometimes geographic evidence of prehistoric life.
 Paleopathology – the study of pathogenic conditions observable in bones or mummified soft tissue, and on nutritional disorders, variation in stature or morphology of bones over time, evidence of physical trauma, or evidence of occupationally derived biomechanic stress.
 Genetics – study of genes and heredity.
 Quantitative genetics – study of phenotypes that vary continuously (in characters such as height or mass)—as opposed to discretely identifiable phenotypes and gene-products (such as eye-colour, or the presence of a particular biochemical).
 Geobiology – study of the interactions between the physical Earth and the biosphere.
 Marine biology – study of ocean ecosystems, plants, animals, and other living beings.
 Microbiology – study of microscopic organisms (microorganisms) and their interactions with other living things.
 Bacteriology – study of bacteria
 Immunology – study of immune systems in all organisms.
 Mycology – study of fungi
 Parasitology – study of parasites and parasitism.
 Virology – study of viruses
 Molecular biology – study of biology and biological functions at the molecular level, with some cross over from biochemistry.
 Structural biology – a branch of molecular biology, biochemistry, and biophysics concerned with the molecular structure of biological macromolecules.
 Neuroscience – study of the nervous system, including anatomy, physiology and emergent proprieties.
 Behavioral neuroscience – study of physiological, genetic, and developmental mechanisms of behavior in humans and other animals.
 Cellular neuroscience – study of neurons at a cellular level.
 Cognitive neuroscience – study of biological substrates underlying cognition, with a focus on the neural substrates of mental processes.
 Computational neuroscience – study of the information processing functions of the nervous system, and the use of digital computers to study the nervous system.
 Developmental neuroscience – study of the cellular basis of brain development and addresses the underlying mechanisms.
 Molecular neuroscience – studies the biology of the nervous system with molecular biology, molecular genetics, protein chemistry and related methodologies.
 Neuroanatomy – study of the anatomy of nervous tissue and neural structures of the nervous system.
 Neuroendocrinology – studies the interaction between the nervous system and the endocrine system, that is how the brain regulates the hormonal activity in the body.
 Neuroethology – study of animal behavior and its underlying mechanistic control by the nervous system.
 Neuroimmunology – study of the nervous system, and immunology, the study of the immune system.
 Neuropharmacology – study of how drugs affect cellular function in the nervous system.
 Neurophysiology – study of the function (as opposed to structure) of the nervous system.
 Systems neuroscience – studies the function of neural circuits and systems. It is an umbrella term, encompassing a number of areas of study concerned with how nerve cells behave when connected together to form neural networks.
 Physiology – study of the internal workings of organisms.
 Endocrinology – study of the endocrine system.
 Oncology – study of cancer processes, including virus or mutation, oncogenesis, angiogenesis and tissues remoldings.
 Systems biology – computational modeling of biological systems.
 Theoretical Biology – the mathematical modeling of biological phenomena.
  – study of animals, including classification, physiology, development, and behavior. Subbranches include:
 Arthropodology – biological discipline concerned with the study of arthropods, a phylum of animals that include the insects, arachnids, crustaceans and others that are characterized by the possession of jointed limbs.
 Acarology – study of the taxon of arachnids that contains mites and ticks.
 Arachnology – scientific study of spiders and related animals such as scorpions, pseudoscorpions, harvestmen, collectively called arachnids.
 Entomology – study of insects.
 Coleopterology – study of beetles.
 Lepidopterology – study of a large order of insects that includes moths and butterflies (called lepidopterans).
 Myrmecology – scientific study of ants.
 Carcinology – study of crustaceans.
 Myriapodology – study of centipedes, millipedes, and other myriapods.
  – scientific study of animal behavior, usually with a focus on behavior under natural conditions.
 Helminthology – study of worms, especially parasitic worms.
 Herpetology – study of amphibians (including frogs, toads, salamanders, newts, and gymnophiona) and reptiles (including snakes, lizards, amphisbaenids, turtles, terrapins, tortoises, crocodilians, and the tuataras).
 Batracholo