[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Otto Braun (communist)

e translation from Russian.

His return to the authorities' good books was evident when in 1964 the ruling party's organ Neues Deutschland carried the revelation that the otherwise unknown Li De, involved in the Chinese Long March of the 1930s, had been in fact none other than the German Otto Braun.

This gave Braun the possibility and the impetus to write his Chinese Notes. As mentioned, researchers consider these as full of interesting information, particularly useful as offering a different angle to that of official CCP historiographybut in themselves far from objective or impartial. They were written in the late 1960s when Braun was also a fellow of the Institute for Social Sciences. The memoirs were published in book form at 1973 and translated to Chinese, English and other languages.

Braun died at age 74, while on vacation in Varna, Bulgaria. He was buried in East Berlin, and his obituaries appeared in Pravda and in The New York Times.

References

Further reading 
 
 "Otto Brauns frühes Wirken in China (1932–1935)" ("Otto Braun's Early Activity in China (1932–1935") by Freddy Litten .
 Freddy Litten (Frederick S. Litten), abstracts from "China and intelligence history" (on the Long March)
 Litten, who made a through research on Braun, gave the following note on his sources:
 The article on "Braun in Germany" is based on documents in archives in Berlin, Potsdam and Munich, contemporary newspaper reports and publications.
 "Braun in China" is based on Litten's own paper "Otto Brauns frühes Wirken in China (1932–1935)" .
 "Otto Braun's Curriculum Vitae" is based on some further unpublished documents (especially his privately held cv), but mostly on a wide array of publications in German, English, Russian and Chinese.

1900 births
1974 deaths
People from Munich (district)
People from the Kingdom of Bavaria
Communist Party of Germany politicians
Socialist Unity Party of Germany politicians
National Committee for a Free Germany members
People of the Chinese Civil War
German Comintern people
East German writers
Writers from Bavaria
Escapees from German detention
German escapees
Recipients of the Patriotic Order of Merit in gold
German expatriates in China
German male writers
Frunze Military Academy alumni