[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rashid Kadyrov

that there is still a long wait before Qodirov will be charged with anything, because it is a very large-scale case. Despite this, on May 21, 2018, the President of Uzbekistan, Shavkat Mirziyayev, promised that he would force Rashid Qodirov to publicly declare himself guilty on national television.

Trial and torture 
The trial of Kadirov and his co-defendants began behind closed doors on January 7, 2019 in Yunusabad District Criminal Court. Kadirov has been charged under 12 articles of the Criminal code for offences including fraud.

Credible reports from sources close to Kadirov indicate that since being detained on February 21, 2018 he has been subjected to psychological abuse, death threats, sleep deprivation and threats against his relatives, to force him to incriminate himself. The sources report that during a 10-month criminal investigation in 2018, more than 40 people, including Kadirov's relatives, were summoned to testify and that some of them were arbitrarily detained, beaten, and otherwise ill-treated by law enforcement officers. All the witnesses have been released. Three co-defendants released from pre-trial detention in August 2018 remain under house arrest. Kadirov and the remaining nine co-defendants held in pre-trial detention since February 2018 are at continued risk of torture and other ill-treatment.

On April 8, Amnesty distributed a letter addressed to Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoev urging him to "ensure [Rashidjon Qodirov] and his 12 co-defendants are protected from torture and other ill-treatment and that they have prompt access to necessary and adequate medical care". Amnesty International, the Association for Human Rights in Central Asia (AHRCA), Human Rights Watch (HRW), International Partnership for Human Rights (IPHR), and the Norwegian Helsinki Committee express deep concern about allegations that Rashitjon Kadirov, former prosecutor general of Uzbekistan, and his twelve co-defendants have been tortured and suffered other forms of ill-treatment in government custody.

Kadyrov was paroled on December 29, 2022.

References 

Uzbekistani politicians
Politics of Uzbekistan
Government of Uzbekistan
Uzbekistan politics-related lists
Living people
Place of birth missing (living people)
1952 births