[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 95]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

o superior to foolish fluffy rabbits
that could not tick to save their skins. Martha had no notion of
relinquishing her hold, so they need not tug in that feeble way; if they
pulled too hard, she would yell!

She evidently meant business, said her captive. So long as they left her
the watch, they might do as they pleased; she was perfectly indifferent
to the accidental human accompaniments of the new treasure, but on that
one point she was firm. She proceeded to stuff the watch into her mouth
as far as it would go. The Professor was dismayed.

"It's all right," Hadria reassured him. "You have hold of the chain."

"Did you entice me into this truly ridiculous position in order to laugh
at me?" enquired the prisoner.

"I would not laugh at you for the world."

"Really this young person has the most astonishing grip! How long does
her fancy generally remain faithful to a new toy?"

"Well--I hope you are not pressed for time," said Hadria maliciously.

The Professor groaned, and struggled in the toils.

"Come, little one, open the fingers. Oh no, no, we mustn't cry." Martha
kept her features ready for that purpose at a moment's notice, should
any nonsense be attempted.

The victim looked round miserably.

"Is there nothing that will set me free from these tender moorings?"

Hadria shook her head and laughed. "You are chained by the most
inflexible of all chains," she said: "your own compunction."

"Oh, you little tyrant!" exclaimed the Professor, shaking his fist in
the baby's face, at which she laughed a taunting and triumphant laugh.
Then, once more, the object of dispute went into her mouth. Martha
gurgled with joy.

"What _am_ I to do?" cried her victim helplessly.

"Nothing. She has you securely because you fear to hurt her."

"Little imp! Come now, let me go please. Oh, _please_, Miss Baby--your
Majesty: will nothing soften you? She is beginning early to take
advantage of the chivalry of the stronger sex, and I doubt not she will
know how to pursue her opportunity later on."

"Oh! is _that_ your parable? Into my head came quite a different
one--_à propos_ of what we were talking of yesterday in Griffin-land."

"Ah, the eternal feminine!" cried the Professor. "Yes, you were very
brilliant, Mrs. Temperley."

"You now stand for an excellent type of woman, Professor: strong, but
chained."

"Oh, thank you! (Infant, I implore!)"

"The baby ably impersonates Society with all its sentiments and laws,
written and unwritten."

"Ah!--and my impounded property?"

"Woman's life and freedom."

"Ingenious! And the chain? (Oh, inexorable babe, have mercy on the
sufferings of imprisoned vigour!)"

"Her affections, her pity, her compunction, which forbid her to wrench
away her rightful property, because ignorant and tender hands are
grasping it. The analogy is a little mixed, but no matter."

"I should enjoy the intellectual treat that is spread before me better,
in happier circumstances, Mrs. Temperley."

"Apply your remark to your prototype--intelligently," she added.

"My intelligence is rapidly waning; I am benumbed. I fail to follow the
intricacies of analogy, in this constrained position."

"Ah, so does she!"

"Oh, pitiless cherub, my muscles ache with this monotony."

"And hers," said Hadria.

"Come, come, life is passing; I have but one; relax these fetters, or I
die."

Martha frowned and fretted. She even looked shocked, according to
Hadria, who stood by laughing. The baby, she pointed out, failed to
understand how her captive could so far forget himself as to desire to
regain his liberty.

"She reminds you, sternly, that this is your proper sphere."

"Perdition!" he exclaimed.

"As a general rule," she assented.

The Professor laughed, and said he was tired of being a Type.

At length a little gentle force had to be used, in spite of furious
resentment on the part of the baby. A more injured and ill-treated
mortal could not have been imagined. She set up a heaven-piercing wail,
evidently overcome with indignation and surprise at the cruel treatment
that she had received. What horrid selfishness to take oneself and one's
property away, when an engaging innocent enjoys grasping it and stuffing
it into its mouth!

"Don't you feel a guilty monster?" Hadria enquired, as the lament of the
offended infant followed them up the road.

"I feel as if I were slinking off after a murder!" he exclaimed
ruefully. "I wonder if we oughtn't to go back and try again to soothe
the child." He paused irresolutely.

Hadria laughed. "You _do_ make a lovely allegory!" she exclaimed. "This
sense of guilt, this disposition to go back--this attitude of
apology--it is speaking, inimitable!"

"But meanwhile that wretched child is shrieking itself into a fit!"
cried the allegory, with the air of a repentant criminal.

"Whenever you open your mouth, out falls a symbol," exclaimed Hadria.
"Be calm; Hannah will soon comf