[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Terminator (character concept)

it could be implied that those systems have been implemented as some sort of nanomachines capable of interacting with the rest of the liquid metal devices.

The T-X model is covered by the mimetic poly-alloy, providing it the ability to mimic humanoid forms while enforcing the endoskeleton beneath.

In Terminator Genisys, the new T-1000 displays a more advanced ability with the mimetic poly-alloy, breaking off a small piece of itself and using it to form a latch on the back of the truck carrying Kyle, Sarah, and the T-800 Guardian. It is also liquefied in an explosion and completely reforms itself within a minute. Like the first T-1000, it can turn its arms into swords, but it can also detach the swords and throw them like a javelin. With a drop of mimetic poly-alloy, the T-1000 is able to reactivate a T-800 that had been killed; said T-800 appears to be fully repaired by the transfusion. However, the drop of alloy grants no extra abilities beyond reactivation. During the climax of the film, there is a vat of unprogrammed mimetic poly-alloy at the Cyberdyne Systems facility. Lasers are shown forming shapes out of it for brief periods of time, but it is stated that without a Terminator CPU the poly-alloy is harmless. During the final fight with the T-3000, the badly damaged T-800 gets thrown into the vat and its CPU comes in contact with the poly-alloy. Afterward, the T-800 emerges, repaired with poly-alloy abilities.

Biological
An I-950 is featured in the T2 novel trilogy. Unlike the T series Terminators, the I series Infiltrators are bred, and not factory-built machines. Skynet decided that the best way for one of its Terminators to act human was to start out with a human and add technological enhancements where necessary. The I-950 starts out as a genetically engineered baby with a neural net processor attached to its brain, providing an up-link to Skynet. To condition it physically, it is coaxed with holographic toys to crawl until it is exhausted. After four years, it is given an injection that rapidly ages it to maturity to finish its training. In an effort to blend in better with humans, the I-950 is allowed to feel emotions, but the range is limited by one of its cybernetic implants. Because it is far more human than a machine, dogs are not alerted to its presence, and the infiltrator can go undetected for extremely long periods of time inside a resistance base.

The I-950s carry Model 101 CPUs in case they are needed, as well as power cells.  Once the "living" portion of the I-950 is dead, the CPU then takes control of the body, but can only do so for a short time. They can reproduce with other 950s but not humans. If the female I-950 decides that the pregnancy would stop them from carrying out their mission, they could fertilize their eggs in vitro and would be implanted in human surrogate wombs. They are also able to clone themselves.

Non-humanoid

As seen in the future war scenes from various Terminator media, Skynet employs robots not designed to appear as humans even while having access to those who are. Hydrobots are designed to attack people underwater. Advanced humanoid and non-humanoid Terminators use plasma weapons of variable size and configuration.

The Terminator comics published by NOW Comics during the 1990s introduced a new style of Terminator which resembled a dog, complete with living tissue.

Non-humanoid Hunter-Killers are robotic versions of various vehicles, built with roughly the same technologies as the contemporary Terminators. The original film introduced a VTOL gunship (HK-Aerial, very similar to the American Dynamics AD-150 and Boeing Phantom Swift DARPA VTOL X-Planes) and an HK-Tank.  Terminator Salvation showed an armed motorcycle, a much larger transport aircraft, the massive Harvester walker and a small recon drone; other media introduce a plethora of other designs. Terminator Genisys introduced Spider Tanks: large, four-legged crab-like units, which can be airlifted to combat theatre by aerial HKs.

In Terminator: Dark Fate'', some of Legion's drones are similar to Skynet's such as the HK-Aerials; they are even being referred by an older Daniella Ramos as such, likely because she was trained by Sarah Connor in tactics originally meant for John Connor battling Skynet's machines.

List of models and series
The first Terminator model shown, simply called "The Terminator" or "Cyberdyne Systems Model 101", was introduced in the first film. Other Terminators have been introduced in subsequent films and media.

Skynet

Legion

References

External links