[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of birds of Malta

This is a list of the bird species recorded in Malta. The avifauna of Malta include a total of 423 species. It lies on a major migration route and many species pass through during spring and autumn. Two have been introduced by humans.

This list's taxonomic treatment (designation and sequence of orders, families and species) and nomenclature (common and scientific names) follow the conventions of The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World, 2022 edition. The family accounts at the beginning of each heading reflect this taxonomy, as do the species counts found in each family account. Accidental species are included in the total species count for Malta.

The following tags highlight several categories of occurrence other than regular migrants and residents. The commonly occurring native species are untagged. Birds that have been recorded breeding in Malta are also tagged.

(A) Accidental - a species that rarely or accidentally occurs in Malta
(I) Introduced - a species introduced to Malta as a consequence, direct or indirect, of human actions

Ducks, geese, and waterfowl

Order: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae

Anatidae includes the ducks and most duck-like waterfowl, such as geese and swans. These birds are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet, flattened bills, and feathers that are excellent at shedding water due to an oily coating.

Graylag goose, Anser anser (A)
Greater white-fronted goose, Anser albifrons (A)
Red-breasted goose, Branta ruficollis (A)
Mute swan, Cygnus olor (A)
Egyptian goose, Alopochen aegyptiacus (A)
Ruddy shelduck, Tadorna ferruginea (A)
Common shelduck, Tadorna tadorna
Baikal teal, Sibirionetta formosa (A)
Garganey, Spatula querquedula
Blue-winged teal, Spatula discors (A)
Northern shoveler, Spatula clypeata
Gadwall, Mareca strepera
Falcated duck, Mareca falcata (A)
Eurasian wigeon, Mareca penelope
Mallard, Anas platyrhynchos
Cape teal, Anas capensis (A)
Northern pintail, Anas acuta
Green-winged teal, Anas crecca
Marbled teal, Marmaronetta angustirostris (A)
Red-crested pochard, Netta rufina (A)
Common pochard, Aythya ferina
Ferruginous duck, Aythya nyroca
Tufted duck, Aythya fuligula (A)
Greater scaup, Aythya marila (A)
Common scoter, Melanitta nigra (A)
Common goldeneye, Bucephala clangula (A)
Smew, Mergellus albellus (A)
Common merganser, Mergus merganser (A)
Red-breasted merganser, Mergus serrator
White-headed duck, Oxyura leucocephala (A)

Pheasants, grouse, and allies

Order: GalliformesFamily: Phasianidae

The Phasianidae are a family of terrestrial birds. In general, they are plump (although they vary in size) and have broad, relatively short wings.

Common quail, Coturnix coturnix
Chukar, Alectoris chukar (I)

Flamingos
Order: PhoenicopteriformesFamily: Phoenicopteridae

Flamingos are gregarious wading birds, usually  tall, found in both the Western and Eastern Hemispheres. Flamingos filter-feed on shellfish and algae. Their oddly shaped beaks are specially adapted to separate mud and silt from the food they consume and, uniquely, are used upside-down.

Greater flamingo, Phoenicopterus roseus

Grebes

Order: PodicipediformesFamily: Podicipedidae

Grebes are small to medium-large freshwater diving birds. They have lobed toes and are excellent swimmers and divers. However, they have their feet placed far back on the body, making them quite ungainly on land.

Little grebe, Tachybaptus ruficollis
Great crested grebe, Podiceps cristatus
Eared grebe, Podiceps nigricollis

Pigeons and doves

Order: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae

Pigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere..

Rock pigeon, Columba livia
Stock dove, Columba oenas
Common wood-pigeon, Columba palumbus
European turtle-dove, Streptopelia turtur
Eurasian collared-dove, Streptopelia decaocto
Laughing dove, Streptopelia senegalensis (A)

Sandgrouse
Order: PterocliformesFamily: Pteroclidae

Sandgrouse have small, pigeon like heads and necks, but sturdy compact bodies. They have long pointed wings and sometimes tails and a fast direct flight. Flocks fly to watering holes at dawn and dusk. Their legs are feathered down to the toes.

Pin-tailed sandgrouse, Pterocles alchata (A)
Spotted sandgrouse, Pterocles senegallus (A)
Black-bellied sandgrouse, Pterocles orientalis (A)

Bustards
Order: OtidiformesFamily: Otididae

Bustards are large terrestrial birds mainly associated with dry open country and steppes in the Old World. They are omnivorous and nest on the ground. They walk steadily on strong legs and big toes, pecking for food as they go. They have long broad wings with "fingered" wingtips and striking patterns in flight. Many have interesting mating displays.

Great bustard, Otis tarda (A)
Macqueen's bustard, Chlamydotis macqueenii (A)
Little bustard, Tetrax tetrax (A)

Cuckoos

Order: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae