[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Gary Mills (footballer, born 1961)

m. Having been 14th in the table on 1 January 2013, York went on a run of 11 matches without a win, and this left the team four points above the relegation zone in 18th place. Mills was dismissed by York on 2 March 2013, an hour after the last of these matches, a 2–0 defeat at home to Bradford City.

Gateshead
Mills returned to management with Conference Premier club Gateshead, signing a one-year rolling contract on 3 September 2013 to replace Anth Smith who resigned in August. At the time Gateshead were 19th in the table, one point above the relegation zone. His first match was a 2–1 home win over Hereford United on 7 September 2013, and both goals were scored by Josh Walker. This was the first time Mills had won his opening match as manager at a new club. Mills was named the Conference Premier Manager of the Month for October 2013 after Gateshead won all five matches that month, conceding only one goal. Gateshead's form continued to improve and by mid January 2014 they had moved into a play-off place; Mills commented in February that "When I came in, I wanted everyone here to believe that we could win promotion – I think they're starting to now".

Gateshead qualified for the Conference Premier play-offs for the first time in their history after finishing third in the table in 2013–14, which represented the club's highest league placing since being voted out of the Football League in 1960. With a 4–2 aggregate win over Grimsby Town in the semi-final, Gateshead played at Wembley Stadium for the first time in the play-off final; despite entering the match on the back of a 14-match unbeaten run they were beaten 2–1 by Cambridge United. Mills said after the match that "I told the lads that they'll be better for it. My job next year is to emulate or better this season". He was named the Non-League Manager of the Year for 2013–14 at the National Game Awards, ahead of John Still, who led Luton to the Conference Premier title.

Wrexham
Mills was appointed manager of Gateshead's National League rivals Wrexham on 28 April 2015 on a one-year rolling contract. On 13 October 2016, Mills was dismissed by Wrexham, after a run of four defeats from six matches left them 15th in the table.

Return to York City

On 16 October 2016, Mills was reappointed as manager of York City, with the team 19th in the National League. He succeeded Jackie McNamara, who remained at the club as chief executive. Mills was unable to keep York City in the National League and they were Relegated to the National League North on 29 April 2017 after a 2–2 draw with Forest Green Rovers. However, on 21 May 2017, Mills' York beat Macclesfield Town 3–2 at Wembley Stadium in the 2017 FA Trophy Final. Mills was dismissed by York on 30 September 2017, on the same day as a defeat to South Shields in the FA Cup third qualifying round. A club statement read that "the current league position is unacceptable", with York seventh in the National League North and 11 points away from the only automatic promotion place.

Corby Town
Mills was appointed manager of Southern League Division One Central club Corby Town on 8 August 2020. The "Steelmen" parted company with Mills immediately after their 2-0 defeat to Belper Town on the final day of the Northern Premier League Midlands season, having finished 15th.

Style of management
Mills' management style was influenced by a number of managers he played under, including John Barnwell, Brian Clough, Alan Hinton, Howard Kendall, Brian Little, David Pleat, Russell Slade and Neil Warnock. He learned simplicity from Clough, saying: "He never did complicate anything. Football is a simple game and Cloughie was no coach, he didn't confuse us with sessions straight out of the manual". Like Clough, Mills has been praised for his man management skills and Daren Fulford, his reserve-team manager at Tamworth, said: "If he felt you had made a mistake, he would give you a rollicking but if he was pleased with you he would always give kind words". Fulford also commented on Mills' thoroughness, saying he wanted information on each players' performances after the reserves played.

Mills sets his teams out to play a passing game, and affirmed this when stating: "My philosophy is to play football with the ball on the deck, to play attacking football, to be disciplined with and without the ball". He prefers to employ a 4–3–3 formation, explaining it allows his teams to play entertaining football and makes them hard to beat, and it brought him success when at Tamworth and York. He has stuck with this formation despite charges from some of being tactically stubborn, saying: "I'm not going to change the way my teams play, the systems. I've not even had a thought about that".

Personal life
Mills is married to Sue. He released an autobiography, Young Millsy, in September 2021.

Career statistics

Managerial statistics

Honours

As a player
Nottingham Forest
European Cup: 1979–80

Notts County
Anglo-Italian Cup: 1994–95