[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Friction of distance

otal cost accumulates over a much longer distance. In each case, the amount of time and/or effort required to travel ten meters is a measurement of the friction of distance. Determining the optimal route requires balancing these costs, and can be solved using the technique of cost distance analysis.

In another, very common example, a person wants to drive from his home to the nearest hospital. Of the many (but finite) possible routes through the road network, the one with the shortest distance passes through residential neighborhoods with low speed limits and frequent stops. An alternative route follows a bypass highway around the neighborhoods, having a significantly longer distance, with much higher speed limits and infrequent stops. Thus, this alternative has a much lower unit friction of distance (in this case, time), but it accumulates over a greater distance, requiring calculations to determine the optimal (taking the least total travel time), perhaps using the network analysis algorithms commonly found in web maps such as Google Maps.

The costs that are proportional to distance can take a number of forms, each of which may or may not be relevant in a given geographic situation:
 Travel cost, the resources required to move through space. This is most commonly time, energy, or fuel consumption, but may also include more subjective costs such as nuisance.
 Traffic cost, the impedance resulting from the aggregate volume of travelers exceeding the optimum capacity of the space (usually a linear network in this case).
 Construction cost, the resources required to build the infrastructure that makes travel through the space possible, such as roads, pipes, and cables.
 Environmental impacts, the negative effects on the natural or human environment caused by the infrastructure or the travel along it. For example, one would want to minimize the length of residential neighborhood or wetland destroyed to build a highway.

Some of these costs are easily quantifiable and measurable, such as transit time, fuel consumption, and construction costs, thus naturally lending themselves to optimization algorithms. That said, there may be a significant amount of uncertainty in predicting them due to variability over time (e.g., travel time through a road network depending on changing traffic volume) or variability in individual situations (e.g., how fast a person wishes to drive). Other costs are much more difficult to measure due to their qualitative or subjective nature, such as political protest or ecological impact; these typically require the creation of "pseudo-measures" in the form of indices or scales to operationalize.

All of these costs are fields in that they are spatially intensive (a "density" of cost per unit distance) and vary over space. The cost field (often called a cost surface) may be a continuous, smooth function or may have abrupt changes. This variability of cost occurs both in unconstrained (two- or three-dimensional) space, as well as in constrained networks, such as roads and cable telecommunications.