[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Sami Frashëri

change rapidly and according to recollections by his children in later years a palace official had visited Frashëri at his home and restricted his movements while he was still employed by the government until his death.

Political Treatise: Albania: What she has been, What she is, What she shall be 

The aforementioned booklet Albania: What she has been, What she is, What she shall be was first published in Albanian without the author's name in 1899, then in French, and in 1904, right after Şemseddin Sami's death, it was published in Sofia under his name and in Turkish with the condition that it was "literally translated from Albanian". Turkish historians generally do not accept that this work belongs to Şemseddin Sami and consider the event as an effort to gain prestige to Albanian nationalism by using Şemseddin Sami's reputation and prestige. Considering Şemseddin Sami's intense interest in the issues of Turkishness and Ottomanism, especially in his last years, it can be thought that there is some truth in this view. On the other hand, in Albanian works, there is not the slightest doubt that the Albanian manifesto belongs to Şemseddin Sâmi.  The booklet was smuggled out of the Ottoman Empire and published in Bucharest with the identity of the author not appearing in the publication. Publishers from Austro-Hungary printed some of Frashëri's most important works containing nationalist themes with Austro-Hungarian Albanologists Theodor Anton Ippen and Baron Nopcsa financing the translation and distribution of his publications. After several months passed from his death the identity of Frashëri as author was revealed on 17 November 1904 by Shahin Kolonja who had published the work and later by a German translation of the booklet in 1913. As in previous publications he repeated certain points such as claiming Albanians as the oldest peoples of Europe, focused on Skanderbeg in a few pages, the Ottoman era in Albania and Albanian contribution to the empire. The second section of the booklet was concentrated on Albania of his time. Frashëri discussed the borders of Albania and Albanian unity despite the Gheg-Tosk subgroups and differences of religion in society. He lamented the lack of progress spanning over twenty years toward developing the Albanian language and the opening of Albanian schools within the Ottoman Empire.

Declaring "I am an Albanian", his work derided identification of Muslim Albanians with Turks and Orthodox Albanians as Rums while he opposed attempts by Greeks to hellenise them and seeking to incorporate Toskëria at a future date into Greece. He believed that Albania and the empire could no longer coexist in the same unit, even if there was a new period of prosperity due to a history of Ottoman prohibition on the development of an national Albanian identity and language. Frashëri worried that Albania would not be able to preserve its nationality because of restrictions on Albanian schooling while at the same time the Porte was allowing rival national movements to act as they pleased, and that this would ultimately lead to the partition of Albania - hence, Albanians had to take matters into their own hands for self-preservation. He preferred Albanian political unity and recognition of Albanian rights achieved by European powers exerting pressure on the empire than an anti-Ottoman revolt, as he thought the empire was on borrowed time and Albanians would need to prepare for creating an independent state. Frashëri proposed that Albanians make a besa to demand the empire and Europe recognize Albanian national rights, especially by applying pressure upon the Ottomans to achieve those aims. He envisioned an autonomous Albanian state with a political parliamentary system, a capital called Skenderbey to be located in central Albania, an Albanian school system, two universities with one each in the north and south and an army of 20,000 men. The nationalisation of the various faiths and sects was envisioned where Catholics would have their own archbishop, Muslims their mufti, Orthodox their Exarch, Bektashi their chief Baba with Jews and Protestants also worshiping in freedom. The booklet by Frashëri overall was an articulation of political Albanianism.

Contributions to Turkism