[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michel Yehuda Lefkowitz

the Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah of Degel HaTorah, a member of Mifal HaShas, and nasi (president) of the Acheinu kiruv organization, and played a leading role in the fight for Torah-true education in yeshivas and Talmud Torahs in Israel, appearing at rallies and signing on many kol korei (proclamations).

Chazon Ish etrog
Lefkowitz was instrumental in saving the lineage of a variety of Balady Citron called "the Chazon Ish etrog", which was certified as kosher for the mitzvah of etrog by the Chazon Ish. After one Sukkot, the Chazon Ish handed Lefkowitz a packet of seeds taken from the etrog he had used for the festival and instructed him to plant them in his yard. Lefkowitz, who had no agricultural experience, followed his mentor's instructions to plant and water it, and the tree grew and bore fruit. Every year the Chazon Ish came to select his etrog for the holiday from the tree, as did his brother-in-law, the Steipler Gaon, and other Gedolei Yisrael. Lefkowitz also allowed etrog growers to take cuttings from the tree to grow entire orchards of etrogim certified as kosher (mehudar) by the Chazon Ish. The tree itself is unusual, as etrog trees normally grow from the tree itself or from a cutting, not from seeds, and those planted from seeds usually don't yield fruit. Moreover, etrog trees typically produce for five to seven years, whereas Lefkowitz's tree produced hundreds of clean, high-quality etrogim for over half a century. In a 2016 interview, Rebbetzin Leah Elyashiv, the daughter of Lefkowitz, noted that the original tree is still growing in the backyard, surrounded by second-, third-, and fourth-generation offshoots.

Personal qualities
From his youth, Lefkowitz was known for his humility and modesty, and the warm smile and respect he accorded everyone he met. He displayed deep insight into the human condition and empathy for those who sought his guidance. He was a master of chinuch (Torah education), drawing his students close with "love, acceptance, warmth, and tolerance", and forged relationships with students that lasted a lifetime.

Final days and funeral
In March 2011 Lefkowitz's health declined and he began to suffer from various ailments. In June he relocated to the Katamon neighborhood of Jerusalem for a rest. He lost consciousness on Shabbat afternoon, 25 June, and was rushed to Shaare Zedek Medical Center, where he died on Monday evening, 27 June (26 Sivan 5771). His Hebrew date of death was the 75th yahrtzeit of his father-in-law.

An estimated 100,000 people attended his funeral in Bnei Brak on Tuesday morning, 28 June, including Gedolei Yisrael, rabbis, rebbes, roshei yeshiva, and thousands of Lefkowitz's students from throughout the decades. In the oppressive heat, chesed organizations handed out thousands of bottles of water, and hundreds of volunteers and 15 ambulances were on hand. Dozens of people fainted and some had to be taken to hospital.

The coffin was not taken inside the Ponovezh yeshiva, per Lefkowitz's will. His grandson, Rabbi Yosef Shlomo Korlansky, read out parts of his will, and his two sons, Rabbi Moshe Dovid Lefkowitz and Rabbi Avraham Yitzchak Lefkowitz, delivered eulogies. The funeral then proceeded to the Bnei Brak cemetery, where Lefkowitz was buried in the Ponovezh section.

Works
Chiddushei Rabbi Shlomo (2 vol.)
Minchas Yehuda on Tractates Bava Kama, Bava Metzia, Bava Basra, Kiddushin, Gittin, Kodshim, Zeraim
Darkhei Chaim
Imrei Daas
Tzava'as Rabbeinu Hagadol (Last Will and Testament) 

Emek Ha'shaar- a commentary on Sefer Hamekach V'hamemkar of  Hai Goan

References

External links

photo
photo

Haredi rabbis in Israel
Haredi rosh yeshivas
Ponevezh Yeshiva
20th-century Israeli rabbis
21st-century Israeli rabbis
Belarusian Haredi rabbis
Belarusian emigrants to Israel
People from Bnei Brak
1913 births
2011 deaths
Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah
Haredi rabbis in Mandatory Palestine
Rabbis in Bnei Brak