[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Saner Wonggoun

Former Technical Sergeant Saner Wonggoun (; ; born January 22, 1947) is a Thai American who was the United States Air Force's top fugitive from 1994 to 2006 as the principal suspect in his wife's killing.  After his November 2006 capture in a Thai market, Wonggoun unsuccessfully fought extradition and eventually pleaded guilty to—and was convicted of—voluntary manslaughter by court-martial.

Wonggoun was in federal prison until July 2013.

Immigration and enlistment
Born in Nakhon Nayok, Thailand, Saner Wonggoun moved to the United States at the age of 21 and enlisted in the Air Force in 1976.  He gained United States citizenship in 1978, having dual citizenship with his home nation of Thailand.

Desertion and capture
Assigned to and living on Travis Air Force Base as an air cargo supervisor in January 1994, Wonggoun fled the country on January 14 when wanted for questioning by the authorities of Marin County, California.  The sergeant was the primary suspect in the killing of his wife of 12 years (conflicting reports give 13), 42-year-old Sopha Wonggoun (née Yodpet).

His wife's body had been found a week earlier on January 7, 1994 wrapped in a sleeping bag along a deserted road off State Route 1. At the time of the killing, the couple had two children already and Sopha was eight-months pregnant.  An autopsy later determined Sopha died of "blunt force trauma to the head ... consistent with the shape of a hammer."

In the three to four days it took to identify the victim and obtain a search warrant for the Wonggouns' mobile home, Saner had received emergency leave and flew to Thailand—leaving his vehicle in the short-term parking at San Francisco International Airport.

Heading the investigation, the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) named Sergeant Wonggoun their number one fugitive; and, in October 2006, offered age-progressed images and a US$25,000 reward for information leading to Wonggoun's capture. On November 3, following a tip-off by a Thai woman that Wonggoun was selling charcoal at the Khoke Matoom Market, the Royal Thai Police arrested Wonggoun in Phitsanulok Province.

After his arrest, Wonggoun made several statements that were later published in the Phuket Gazette. He allegedly confessed to killing his wife, admitting to bludgeoning her with a hammer after learning she was eight months pregnant—despite living chaste with Wonggoun for almost a year. Saner further claimed that his wife had an addiction to gambling and had wasted a lot of money in this fashion. After fleeing the United States in 1994, Wonggoun never withdrew any of his US$81,700 for fear of being traced, nor was he aware that his son had made frequent trips to Thailand searching for him. Summarizing his time as a fugitive, Wonggoun claimed to have attempted suicide several times: "I have been living in misery all along. I have been living on given time. No happiness or anything at all."

Extradition
Captain Christine Millette with the AFOSI said Wonggoun would be court-martialed on charges of premeditated murder; the Uniform Code of Military Justice dictates a potential sentence of death or life imprisonment should he be convicted for the murder of his wife.

After his arrest, Wonggoun insisted he be considered a Thai citizen and subject to Thai jurisdiction.  However, in December 2007 Thailand's Appeals Court found that as the killing took place in the United States, and Wonggoun is a US citizen, he was subject to the US judicial system.

On February 15, 2008, Wonggoun was transferred to the custody of the AFOSI Detachment 303 at Travis AFB; because OSI investigators believed that Sopha was killed on base, Marin County relinquished legal jurisdiction to the Air Force.

Trial

Article 32 hearing
On March 19, 2008, Air Force prosecutors convened an Article 32 hearing to determine whether there was probable cause that a crime occurred and that Wonggoun committed it.  During the two-day hearing, the prosecution and defense counsels (Majors Tara Villena and Mark Etheridge, respectively) questioned the original Marin County investigator, Detective Steven Nash, and Wonggoun's 21-year-old daughter, Sophia Wonggoun Burtram.

Burtram testified that she may have inadvertently informed her father about her mother's boyfriend shortly before her death.  When questioned by the defense counsel, she supported the argument for voluntary manslaughter, testifying that she had never seen her father act violently or aggressively toward her mother.

The evidence, testimony, and arguments of counsel were reviewed by the proceeding's investigating officer, Colonel Steven Ehlenbeck., who found probable cause.