[Source: PubMed]

13. Stud Fam Plann. 1998 Jun;29(2):117-36.

Adolescent childbearing in developing countries: a global review.

Singh S(1).

Author information:
(1)Alan Guttmacher Institute, New York, NY 10005, USA.

This article discusses the current levels and recent trends in the rate of 
adolescent childbearing, the timing of the first birth, and births to unmarried 
women for 43 developing countries. Differences in rates of adolescent 
childbearing by residence and level of education are also examined. The analysis 
is based on nationally representative fertility surveys. Substantial declines in 
adolescent fertility have occurred in North Africa and Asia, but levels are 
still high in some countries. Declines are beginning to occur in sub-Saharan 
Africa, but current levels are still high in most countries of this region, and 
the proportion of births to unmarried adolescents is increasing in some 
countries. In Latin America, where the level of teenage childbearing is 
moderate, declines are less prevalent and some small increases have occurred. 
Higher education is associated with lower rates of adolescent childbearing, but 
other socioeconomic changes cancel or reduce this effect in several countries.

PIP: This study analyzed the most recent Demographic and Health Survey data 
available for 43 developing countries (20 in sub-Saharan Africa, 10 in Latin 
America, 5 in North Africa and the Near East, and 8 in Asia) to document current 
levels and recent trends in the rate of adolescent childbearing, the timing of 
first births, and births to unmarried women. The study also considered 1) 
socioeconomic differentials arising from urban or rural residence and 
educational attainment, 2) whether births to adolescents are planned, and 3) the 
consequences of unsafe abortion. In some developing countries, adolescent 
childbearing is increasing while in others it is decreasing, and more countries 
are recognizing the problems associated with adolescent childbearing. The 
analysis revealed that some sub-Saharan countries are experiencing a reduction 
in the rate of adolescent childbearing, but the proportion of adolescent births 
will continue to increase unless unmarried couples adopt contraception. 
Unexpected small decreases and increases in adolescent childbearing occurred in 
Latin America. The largest and most uniform declines in early childbearing 
occurred in North Africa and Asia along with increases in the age at first 
marriage. Increasing opportunities for girls to achieve secondary education and 
postpone marriage lengthen the period when women risk unmarried pregnancy and 
sexually transmitted diseases. Available evidence points to the need to address 
unplanned pregnancy and abortion among adolescents.

PMID: 9664627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]