[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Armenians in France

–Armenian Agreement, the French Armenian Legion was formed out of Armenians from around the world, including many French Armenians, by negotiations between Boghos Nubar and French political and military authorities. The Legion took part in the Sinai and Palestine Campaign and the Franco-Turkish War.

As a result of the Allied victory in the First World War, tens of thousands of survivors of the Armenian genocide found themselves living in the French-occupied part of the Ottoman Empire in Cilicia, and far more in the French Mandate territories of Syria and Lebanon, as the death camps of Deir ez-Zor were in Syria. In 1920, the French army under General Henri Gouraud ordered the French Armenian Legion to lay down their weapons and that the Armenian refugees should leave at once. He had formed a "peaceful, reconstructive policy" with the Turkish nationalists to pull French troops out of Cilicia, but all that ended up doing was allowing attacks against Armenian civilians to resume. Most Cilician Armenian fled alongside the French and were resettled in refugee camps in Alexandretta, Aleppo, the Beqaa Valley (e.g. Anjar) and Beirut. From there, entire families took the opportunity to flee to France. The influx of the Armenian genocide survivors brought tens of thousands of Armenians to France. By the early 1920s, approximately 50,000 to 60,000 Armenians lived in France. According to another source 90,000 genocide survivors settled in France, more than half of whom were villagers.

Most Armenians initially arrived in Marseille, thereafter many of them spread across France and settled in large cities, especially in Paris and the urban areas across the Paris–Marseille railway, notably Lyon. In the Interwar period, the majority of Armenians in France were unskilled villagers that mostly worked in factories for low wages. Between 1922 and 1929, 80% of Armenians in France were labourers earning 10–15% less than Frenchmen.

On 29 October 1920, Grégoire Sinabian was appointed by the Armenian government as the consul-general of Armenia to France.

In this period, a number of Turkish Armenian intellectuals moved to France, including Arshag Chobanian (1895), Komitas (1919, transferred to a hospital in Paris where he remained until his death), Levon Pashalian (1920), Shahan Shahnour (1923).

World War II and the Fourth Republic

The Armenian community of France played an active role in the French Resistance. Poet and communist militant Missak Manouchian, the commander of the multiethnic Groupe Manouchian, became an important Resistance leader. Besides Arpen Lavitian, the other executed Armenian member, his group also included many Jews from across Europe. Poets Kégham Atmadjian and Rouben Melik were other prominent participants in the Resistance.  The Anti-Fascist Underground Patriotic Organization was commanded by Armenian officers.

Resisters Alexander Kazarian and Bardukh Petrosian were awarded by the highest military orders of France by General Charles de Gaulle.

Another Resistance fighter, Louise Aslanian, a famous writer and poet, was a recruiter for the Francs-Tireurs et Partisans in a combat cell of the French Communist Party. She along with her husband Arpiar Aslanian worked in an underground publishing house and actively engaged in supplying fighters of the French Resistance with weapons. Louise opened the women's division of the French Resistance and was responsible for the Armenian Resistance in Northern France. She and her husband were arrested on 24 July 1944 and were later killed in Nazi concentration camps.

Henri Karayan, a member of the Manouchian Group, participated in the illegal distribution of Humanité in Paris and was engaged in the armed struggle until the Libération.

In 2012, 95-year-old Arsène Tchakarian, the last survivor of the Manouchian resistance group who fought against occupying Nazi German forces during World War II, was decorated as Officer of the Legion of Honor by President Nicolas Sarkozy.

Immediately after the Second World War, about 7,000 Armenians were repatriated to Soviet Armenia.

Migration of Armenians from the Middle East
Thousands of new immigrants have arrived in France from Middle Eastern countries like Turkey, Lebanon, Syria and Iran since the 1950s. These new immigrants mobilized the French Armenian community. By the 1980s around 300,000 Armenians lived in France.

In 1983, the Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia launched an attack at the Paris Orly airport, as part of its campaign for the recognition of and reparations for the Armenian genocide. The explosion killed eight people and injured fifty-five. The campaign to pass the resolution condemning the Armenian genocide at the European Council unleashed on June 19, 1987, at a Strasbourg demonstration.