[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Accommodation at the University of Hong Kong

s founded in 1951 by Ho Tung to memorialise his wife, Lady Margaret Ho Tung, who died in 1943. The old building was demolished and rebuilt in 1998. This traditional hall provides a variety of activities including 11 Sports teams, 4 cultural teams and 3 interest classes.*

University Hall (male only)

This castle-like building is a charming blend of Tudorbethan and Gothic revival architecture. It was built about 1861 by Douglas Lapraik, a Scottish businessman, who named the two-storey building with its four corner towers Douglas Castle. After the French Mission bought the house in 1894, the building was renamed Nazareth House, and housed a dormitory, a chapel, a library and a large printing house famous for printing about 60,000 books annually in 28 languages. The University of Hong Kong acquired the house in 1956 and converted it into a men's residence hall, renaming it University Hall.

Robert Black College (postgraduates and visitors only)
Founded in 1967 with the help of Sir Shiu Kin Tang. Named after Governor Robert Black.

Swire Hall
Founded with the help of the Swire Group in 1980.

Simon K. Y. Lee Hall
Founded by Justice of the Peace Lee Kwok Yin in 1985.

Lee Hysan Hall
Named after renowned land developer Lee Hysan and founded in 1992.
Unity, Harmony, Choice and Responsibility, Positive

R. C. Lee Hall

Founded with the help of Richard Charles Lee in 1992. Located on 6 Sassoon Road. The founding warden is Dr. Robert Chung, who was the former director of the Public Opinion Programme of the University of Hong Kong. The hall motto is "Liberty with Responsibility, Unity in Diversity."

Wei Lun Hall
Founded with the help of the Wei Lun Foundation in 1994. Located on Sasoon Road.

Madam S.H. Ho Residence for Medical Students
The residence was opened in 1992 and accommodates 150 medical students, most of whom are fourth year students taking a specialty clerkship or final year students.  A few rooms are available for overseas students.

Graduate House (postgraduates only)
Founded in 1998.

Starr Hall
Founded in 2001 with the help of the Hong Kong Jockey Club. It is the largest residential hall in HKU, accommodating 500 students.

Lee Shau Kee Hall
Lee Shau Kee Hall opened its doors at the end of August 2005. It is located in the Jockey Club Student Village II. The first affiliated student association was established among three new halls.

Suen Chi Sun Hall
Suen Chi Sun Hall was newly established in September 2005 together with the other two new halls as part of the Jockey Club Student Village II. It is next to the Flora Ho Sport Centre.

Residential colleges
The four residential colleges, Shun Hing College, Chi Sun College, Lap-Chee College and New College, located in the Jockey Club Student Village III were founded in September and October 2012. They provide a total of 1800 beds for students of whom 67% are non-local students. Traditional functions of halls such as high table dinner are kept in these colleges.

Shun Hing College
Founded in 2012 as Residential Colleges Block A. Named in recognition of Shun Hing Education and Charity Fund.

Chi Sun College
Founded in 2012 as Residential Colleges Block B. Named in recognition of the donation from Mr Suen Chi Sun's family through the Simatelex Charitable Foundation.

Lap-Chee College
Founded in 2012 as Residential Colleges Block C. Named after former Vice-Chancellor, Professor Lap-Chee Tsui.

New College
Founded in 2012 as Residential Colleges Block D. Named in recognition of The Tung Foundation.

Other residences

Pokfield Road Residence
Mainly for exchange and postgraduate students.

Patrick Manson Student Residences
Mainly for exchange undergraduate students.

Non-residential halls

Hornell Hall (male only)
Founded in 1953 as Men's Non-Residential Hall. Renamed Hornell Hall for memorial of Vice-Chancellor Sir William Hornell.

Duchess of Kent Hall (female only)
Founded in 1953. Named with the permission of HRH Princess Marina, Duchess of Kent.

Lee Chi Hung Hall
Founded in 1995. Named after Lee Chi Hung.

References

University of Hong Kong
University residences in Hong Kong