[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Member state of the European Union

ter, who is accountable to the national parliament. Of the remaining republics, five operate a semi-presidential system, where competences are shared between the president and prime minister, while one republic operates a presidential system, where the president is head of both state and government.

Parliamentary structure in member states varies: there are 15 unicameral national parliaments and 12 bicameral parliaments. The prime minister and government are usually directly accountable to the directly elected lower house and require its support to stay in office—the exceptions being Cyprus and France with their presidential systems. Upper houses are composed differently in different member states: it can be directly elected like the Polish senate; indirectly elected, for example, by regional legislatures like the Federal Council of Austria; or unelected, but representing certain interest groups like the National Council of Slovenia. All elections in member states use some form of proportional representation. The most common type of proportional representation is the party-list system.

There are also differences in the level of self-governance for the sub-regions of a member state. Most states, especially the smaller ones, are unitary states; meaning all major political power is concentrated at the national level. 9 states allocate power to more local levels of government. Austria, Belgium and Germany are full federations, meaning their regions have constitutional autonomies. Denmark, Finland, France and the Netherlands are federacies, meaning some regions have autonomy but most do not. Spain and Italy have systems of devolution where regions have autonomy, but the national government retains the legal right to revoke it.

States such as France have a number of overseas territories, retained from their former empires.

See also
 Currencies of the European Union
 Economy of the European Union
 Enlargement of the European Union (1973–2013)
 European Economic Area (integration with the EFTA States)
 History of the European Union
 Microstates and the European Union
 Potential enlargement of the European Union
 Special member state territories and the European Union
 United Kingdom membership of the European Union
 Member states of NATO

Notes

References

External links

 Member states – Europa

European Union