[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# South Dakota-class battleship (1939)

hile metacentric height was . The addition of more anti-aircraft mounts during the ships' service in World War II increased the full load displacement considerably towards the end of the war; by 1945, South Dakotas full load displacement was some , and Massachusetts reached up to  at emergency load.

The hull featured a bulbous bow, triple bottom under the armored citadel, and skegs, characteristics shared by all American fast battleships. Unlike the preceding North Carolina-class and the subsequent Iowa-class, the South Dakotas mounted the outboard propulsion shafts in skegs rather than the inboard ones. Compared to the North Carolinas, the slightly shorter hull form resulted in improved maneuverability, and the vibration problems had been considerably reduced.

Armament

Main battery

The South Dakota–class battleships carried a main battery of nine /45 caliber Mark 6 guns in three three-gun turrets, identical to the North Carolina-class. Two of these turrets were placed in a superfiring pair forward; the third turret was mounted aft of the main superstructure. These guns fired a  Mark 8 armor-piercing (AP) shell at a rate of two per minute per gun. The guns could either use a full propellant charge of , a reduced charge of , or a reduced flashless charge of . This provided a muzzle velocity of  for the AP shell with the full propellant charge, while the reduced version provided a correspondingly lower muzzle velocity of . 130 shells were stowed for each gun, which came to a total of 1,170. The guns in all three turrets could elevate to 45 degrees, but only I and III turrets could depress to −2 degrees; the superfiring II turret was not able to depress. This enabled a maximum range of  with the Mark 8 projectile.  The turrets were able to train 150 degrees in both directions from the centerline, which enabled a wide arc of fire. The guns could be elevated or depressed at a rate of 12 degrees per second, and the turrets could train at 4 degrees per second.

Secondary battery

South Dakota was built as a fleet flagship, with an extra deck on her conning tower for extra command space, so her secondary battery had sixteen /38 caliber Mark 12 guns in eight Mark 28 Mod 0 twin dual-purpose (DP) mounts, four on either side of the superstructure. This was two turrets fewer than her sister ships who had ten twin DP mounts of twenty guns, five on either side of the ship. These turrets weighed  and could depress their guns to −15 degrees and elevate them to 85 degrees. The guns fired a variety of different projectiles, including anti-aircraft (AA), illumination, and white phosphorus (WP) shells, at a rate of fire of 15–22 rounds per minute. The AA shells were  and weighed between , depending on the variant. The illumination and white phosphorus shells were slightly smaller, at  long; the illumination rounds weighed  and the WP shells were .

The guns used three different charges, depending on the situation: a full charge, a full flashless charge, and a reduced charge. The standard full charge weighed , the flashless charge was slightly heavier at , and the reduced charge was significantly smaller, at . Both full charges provided a muzzle velocity of  in new guns, but as continued fire wore down the barrels, muzzle velocity degraded slightly, to . The reduced charge's muzzle velocity was correspondingly lower, at . Each gun was supplied with 450 rounds, and was expected to fire 4,600 shells before it was worn enough to warrant replacement. At the maximum effective elevation to engage surface targets, 45 degrees, the guns could hit targets up to  away. The maximum height at which aircraft could be engaged was .

Anti-aircraft battery

The ships had a variety of anti-aircraft weapons, and the weapons mounted changed over time. Initially, the ships were designed to mount twelve  machine guns and twelve  autocannon. By March 1942, when South Dakota was completed, the anti-aircraft battery was modified to eight .50-inch and twenty-eight 1.1-inch machine guns and sixteen  Oerlikon autocannon. In September of that year, the .50-inch guns were removed and the number of 1.1-inch guns reduced to 20. In their place, the 20mm guns were increased to 16 weapons, and 16  Bofors guns were added, in four quadruple mounts.

In February 1943, the 1.1-inch guns and 1 Oerlikon gun were replaced with an additional 52 Bofors guns, for a total of 68. In December 1944, the battery was again upgraded, with 72 Oerlikon and 72 Bofors guns. In March 1945, the battery was modified for the last time: 5 Oerlikon were added and 4 Bofors were removed. This provided the maximum number of anti-aircraft guns, at 145 guns. The other three ships followed a similar pattern of upgrades to the anti-aircraft armament.