[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gideon Levy

li Channel 2. Levy himself joked that there is a thick file of anti-Levy cancellations in the Haaretz newsroom.

In an open letter to Levy in 2009, Israeli author A. B. Yehoshua, formerly a supporter of Levy, described his comparison of Gazan-Israeli death tolls as absurd and questioned his motives.

In 2013, Levy published an article about what he views as a disgraceful attitude towards African asylum seekers in Israel. In considering the reasons for this attitude, he wrote, "This time the issue is not security, Israel's state religion. Nor are still talking about a flood of refugees, because the border with Egypt has been closed. So the only explanation for this disgraceful treatment lies in the national psyche. The migrants' color is the problem. A million immigrants from Russia, a third of them non-Jews, some of whom were also found to have a degree of alcohol and crime in their blood, were not a problem. Tens of thousands of Africans are the ultimate threat." Levy's remarks about Russians produced accusations of racism from Eddie Zhensker, executive director of the Russian advocacy NGO Morashtenu, who accused Levy of "brute and coarse prejudices". Immigrant Absorption Minister Sofa Landver demanded that Levy be placed on trial. Levy later apologised to those who were offended, but claimed that the real problem was that he had called Russian "immigrants" instead of "olim" and compared them to Africans.

During the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict the chairman of the Likud Yisrael Beiteinu faction in the Knesset, Yariv Levin, called for Levy to be put on trial for treason.

In February 2016, after Levy criticized the Israel Labor Party, its Secretary General, Yehiel Bar, wrote in Haaretz that Levy is a Trojan horse: "Sad, that Levy who used to be a moral compass, became a broken compass: at all time, with no connection to circumstances or reality, Levy's compass points negative, points despair, points irrelevant". Bar added that Levy regards Palestinians as uneducated children who are exempted of any responsibility to their actions.

Private life
Levy resides in the Ramat Aviv neighborhood of Tel Aviv, on a site that was, before 1948, part of the Palestinian Arab village of Sheikh Munis. He is a divorced father of two. He says his sons do not share his politics and do not read anything he writes. He has received death threats.

Awards
Emil Grunzweig Peace Award.
2003: Sparkasse Leipzig Prize Media Award
2007: Euro-Med Journalist Prize for Cultural Dialogue
5 May 2012: Peace Through Media Award at the eighth annual International Media Awards
7 January 2016: Olof Palme Prize, shared with Palestinian pastor Mitri Raheb, for their "fight against occupation and violence"
9 November 2021: Sokolov Award.

Published works
 Twilight Zone – Life and Death under the Israeli Occupation. 1988–2003. Tel Aviv: Babel Press, 2004 , 
The Punishment of Gaza, Verso Books, 2010,

References

External links

 
 Selection of articles by Levy
 
 
 
 
Is Gideon Levy the most hated man in Israel or just the most heroic?. Interview by Johann Hari, The Independent, 24 September 2010

 

1953 births
Living people
Israeli columnists
Israeli Jews
Israeli journalists
Israeli people of Czech-Jewish descent
Israeli people of German-Jewish descent
Israeli political writers
Writers from Tel Aviv
Haaretz people
Writers on the Middle East