[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Carnell Lake

ured left foot. Lake had undergone a surgery on his foot in March due to a stress fracture in the navicular bone near his ankle. He underwent another surgery on the foot in May and returned to training camp in August.

On September 2, 2001, the Jaguars released Lake in a salary cap-related maneuver.

Baltimore Ravens
On September 11, 2001, the Baltimore Ravens signed Lake to a one-year, $477,000 contract at the veteran minimum. Lake was reunited Baltimore Ravens' defensive coordinator Marvin Lewis, who was a linebackers coach with the Pittsburgh Steelers from 1992–1995, and former teammates Rod Woodson and Leon Searcy.

Coaching career
In summer 2009, Lake, along with former Steeler Greg Lloyd, was a coaching intern at the Philadelphia Eagles training camp at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

In June 2010, Lake was hired by Jerry Simon to be the assistant coach of the Marina High School boys' basketball team.

On March 7, 2011, Lake was hired as the Pittsburgh Steelers defensive backs coach. He left that position as of February 7, 2018, to "return to California to be a part of his youngest son’s last year of high school football".

Personal life
Lake grew up primarily in Southern California. Lake did, however, live in the San Francisco Bay Area for three years (1979–1981) and attended Bowditch Middle School in Foster City, California. There he also played Pop Warner Football where he was a stand-out tailback and cornerback for those two years.

Lake attended Culver City High School, where he played varsity football for three years. He started on both sides of the ball as running back and linebacker. He also attended elementary school in Culver City prior to his move to San Francisco.

He and his wife, Monica, have three children. Lake and his family live in Irvine, California. Lake is a member of Alpha Phi Alpha, an African American Greek-letter fraternity. His son, Quentin, plays defensive back for the Los Angeles Rams.

See also
2009 UCLA Bruins football team

References

External links

 UCLA Bruins coaching bio

1967 births
Living people
American football safeties
American football cornerbacks
UCLA Bruins football players
Pittsburgh Steelers players
Jacksonville Jaguars players
Baltimore Ravens players
American Conference Pro Bowl players
Players of American football from Salt Lake City
Tampa Bay Bandits (2022) coaches