[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Point Pleasant High School (West Virginia)

en he was hired by the Point Pleasant Register.  He was the baseball coach for 24 years and compiled a record of 182-121.  He published over 10,000 articles for the Register while he was a sportswriter.  He directed the Little League baseball program for 8 years and a field there is named after him.

Jimmy Lewis-  No other Point Pleasant athlete has ever equaled Lewis' accomplishments on the baseball diamond.  He had a 32-game hitting streak, which was a state record at the time that spanned almost three seasons.  In 1958, he posted a .556 batting average, with 25 hits, 19 runs scored, 4 homers, and in one inning had 6 rbis.  In 1957 he was named to the 3rd team All-State and he followed that up with 1st team honors in '58.  In addition to his accolades in baseball, he was named the football team's Most Valuable Player his senior season.

Charles "Happy" Kenny-  Kenny was Point Pleasant's version of Jim Thorpe, as he excelled in all athletic events.  He was a skilled football and baseball player, as well as a good wrestler.  In 1950, famed coach Jerome VanMeter said that Kenny, who captained VanMeter's 1924 squad was "the greatest football player I ever coached.  He could do everything anyone else could do, and do it better!".

H.R. "Dick" Herrig-  Herrig played on the most prolific football team in school history.  He scored 16 touchdowns as a junior and 17 his senior year.  He was awarded the MVP award as a senior.  He was named to the Honorable Mention All-State and All-American teams as a senior.  He played four years as a forward in basketball as well as three years as a center-fielder in baseball.  Upon graduating, he was awarded a full, four-year scholarship to West Virginia University.

Notable alumni

Virginia Mae Brown, set many "first woman" records.
Donnie Jones, head coach of the Marshall University men's basketball team.
Rebecca Durst, West Virginia University Mountaineer mascot
Bob Adkins, Green Bay Packers BB/DE/G/LB

References

External links 
 Point Pleasant Jr/Sr High School Sports
  Point Pleasant Jr/Sr High School Webpage

Public high schools in West Virginia
Schools in Mason County, West Virginia