[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Alex Karev

to UCLA, he decides not to leave. Karev buys Meredith's old house from her, and Cristina becomes his roommate. Karev forms a friendship with a new intern, Jo Wilson, that eventually develops into romantic feelings towards each other. Alex admits his love for Jo, and the two kiss and become a couple.

Alex's estranged father, Jimmy, who he hasn't seen in 18 years, is admitted to the ER as a patient. Unknowing that Alex is his son, Jimmy confides in Alex that he had another family that he hasn't seen in years. This made Alex upset and he punches Jimmy at the bar. His father returns, experiencing symptoms of withdrawal and hallucinations of the past, where more is revealed about Alex's childhood. Jimmy tells Alex he knows that he is his son and Alex yells at him. His dad later goes into cardiac arrest and is brought into surgery. During surgery, Ross halucinates about brook's death by electrocution and damages Jimmy's heart. The damage eventually leads to Jimmy dying with Alex at his bedside, before he dies, Alex lies to Jimmy by saying his other wife and child are on the way and know he loves them. They took back their guitar and left wanting no contact with him. Believing Alex's words, Jimmy lets go and dies.
Alex kisses Jo at April's wedding, wanting to start a family with her. That night, followinghis dad's death, due to a mistake by intern, Shane Ross, Alex is upset. He punches Ross and is later comforted by Meredith.

Upon the completion of his fellowship in Pediatric Surgery, Alex is given an offer to work at Dr. Oliver Lebackes' private practice office, claiming that he will have more flexible hours and "a big fat paycheck". He later discovers that he isn't happy working at the private practice and expresses a desire to return full-time to Grey Sloan. When Cristina leaves for Switzerland, she leaves Alex her share of the board, including her seat.

Alex is fired by Dr. Lebackes, when Maggie Pierce accidentally reveals to him that Karev was thinking about leaving the job. Webber recommended Bailey to fill Yang's board seat after she left, so Bailey and Alex fight over the chair. They both make presentations to the board and eventually Bailey wins, with a unanimous vote in her favor. He is hired back as an attending pediatric surgeon and takes over full-time as Arizona pursues a fellowship with Dr. Herman. Alex continues to date Jo and his friendship with Meredith grows stronger than ever, with him taking on the role of her new person. When Derek dies and Meredith runs away, Alex is upset by her leaving without telling him where she went and calls her every day. Eventually she calls him, tells him she is okay, and to stop calling. When she goes into labor and gives birth to Ellis Shepherd, Alex goes to see her since he is her emergency contact. She asks to move back in with him in her old house. Alex sells Meredith back the house and he and Jo rent a loft. In the third episode of the twelfth season, Jo finds an invoice from the fertility clinic, housing Izzie and Alex's frozen embryos. She then gets jealous of Alex wanting to have babies with Izzie.

Alex and Jo continue to struggle with their relationship. When Karev proposes to her, Jo tells him she can't marry him, so he breaks up with her. Later, Alex realizes that he misses Jo and gets her back. They seem to be doing well for some time, until Alex brings up marriage again and the two fight, as Jo still continues to argue that she cannot marry him. Alex storms out, leaving their relationship uncertain. Meredith and Alex lie on the grass and talk about love. On Jo rejecting his proposal, Alex then wonders, if he'll get only one soulmate/true love and refers to Izzie. Meredith then tells him Izzie wasn't his true love and Alex told her Izzie was his Derek. During Owen and Amelia's wedding, Alex realizes that even though she won't marry him, he loves Jo and goes back to her again. However, when he arrives at their loft, he finds Jo highly intoxicated, wearing nothing but her bra and underwear, and surgical intern, Andrew Deluca, lying on top of her. Alex assumes that Deluca was attempting to take advantage of Jo while she was inebriated and is filled with rage. He beats Deluca to a pulp with his bare hands.