[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Murder of Romona Moore

other charges, for allegedly kidnapping, raping and murdering Romona Moore. They faced separate charges for their attack on the 15-year-old.

The details of Moore's kidnapping, captivity, and murder were recounted in the prosecutor's opening statement at the trial, which started on January 18, 2006:

Prosecutor Anna-Sigga Nicolazzi said two thugs terrorized Romona Moore for days in a Brooklyn basement in April 2003, repeatedly raping her and attacking her with a knife, a saw, a hammer and a barbell. Defendants Troy Hendrix, 22, and Kayson Pearson, 23, are also charged with kidnapping and raping a 15-year-old girl days after they allegedly killed Moore. "Romona Moore's injuries are indescribable,' said Nicolazzi. "The horror she endured, the torture she endured will become clear."

Additional details were revealed in testimony about evidence.

Witness testimony 

Romando Jack, a friend of Hendrix and Pearson, testified to seeing Moore chained and held as a captive by Pearson and Hendrix in the basement of a house but at the time did not report this to the police; he went to a baby shower and later returned home to Maryland. Jack told his fiancée and her uncle about the young woman being abused and held captive. He said during the trial that he thought his uncle may have called the police.

Escape attempt and mistrial 

The courtroom was thrown into chaos on January 19, 2006, when defendant Pearson stabbed his attorney on his way out of the courtroom. Defendant Hendrix jumped a barricade and tried to take a gun from one of the bailiffs, in order to make their escape. Both men were subdued by officers. The two men were charged with "assault, resisting arrest and attempted escape."

The judge declared a mistrial due to Pearson's attack on his lawyer in the courtroom. New charges were brought against the two defendants for their attack, and a new trial was quickly scheduled.

Main trial 

A second kidnapping and murder trial was begun.

On March 23, 2006, the district attorney announced the jury conviction of Hendrix and Pearson on charges of  kidnapping, rape, torture and first-degree murder of Romona Moore, 21. They were reputedly members of the Bloods gang.

After the verdict was announced, Moore's mother Ellie Carmichael spoke to the press in front of TV cameras; she said she had received justice inside the courtroom if not outside, and strongly criticized press and police for their conduct since her daughter's disappearance and murder. She said, "All I got was nothing but disrespect from the media and the police."

Sentencing 

On April 11, 2006, Pearson and Hendrix were both sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. They received an additional 22 years for their attacks in the court while seeking escape.

Lawsuit against NYPD 

As Moore's family awaited sentencing of the convicted defendants, their daughter's case was superseded by media attention related to the announcement of a grand jury indictment across the street in another courtroom in the abduction and murder of Imette St. Guillen, a graduate student at John Jay College of Criminal Justice who had lived on the Upper West Side. She had also been tortured and raped before her death.

Moore's family felt that in 2003, when their daughter disappeared, neither the police nor the press took her case seriously. They did not search as hard for her as for Svetlana Aronov, a white female who worked as a rare art book dealer and who had disappeared in Manhattan at about the same time. Nor did they have a press conference to call attention to the honor student's disappearance. The Moore relatives initially had posted fliers in their neighborhood when the police declined to open an investigation, saying that sometimes young people took off for a few days. It turned out that Moore was still alive and subject to torture when the police closed her case. The police have said that circumstances in the Moore and Aronov cases were different.

Following the conclusion of the trial of the murderers of her daughter, on April 3, 2008, Moore's mother Elle Carmichael filed a federal lawsuit against the NYPD, alleging that they did not take sufficient action in cases of missing black women and girls. The historic racial-bias lawsuit was cleared for trial by Brooklyn Federal District Judge Nina Gershon.

Carmichael is claiming that NYPD "used a double standard" by not mounting a vigorous search for Moore while "aggressively pursuing the disappearance of white women." The police at the 67th Precinct had rejected Carmichael's initial request to search for her daughter by saying that "she was probably off with a boyfriend." Carmichael contrasted the NYPD's actions in failing to investigate the disappearance of her daughter with their pursuit of evidence in the case of Svetlana Aronov, a white woman. City Attorney Robyn Pullio indicated that she was looking forward to a hearing in this case so that all facts could be heard.