[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kendra's Law

ard Lamb – Dept. of Psychiatry, USC
 Edgar Rivera – lost legs in subway pushing
 E. Fuller Torrey – author, Surviving Schizophrenia
 Pat Webdale – mother of Kendra Webdale
 Robert Yolken – Director of Developmental Neurovirology Johns Hopkins Univ.
DJ Jaffe, Executive Dir. Mental Illness Policy Org.

Media editorial supporters
 New York Times
 Newsday
 New York Post
 Daily News
 Albany Times Union
 Buffalo News
 Troy News
 Office of the Attorney General
 NYS Public Employees Federation
 Greater NY Hospital Association
 Citizens Crime Commission
 Victim Services Agency
 Visiting Nurses Service
 Justice for All
 St. Francis Residence

Moreover, research  specifically on Kendra's Law in New York State shows lower rates of violence, homelessness, arrest, incarceration, and cost. It shows that those who support Kendra's Law say it helps them get well and stay well. Research in other states that have assisted outpatient treatment programs has also shown positive results.

Courts have ruled that Kendra's Law does not violate rights, citing the narrow criteria, the fact that the law does not provide for medication over objection ("force") and the government interest in reducing violence.

Supporters note that the system in the United States is so different from that in the U.K. that studies that aggregate community treatment orders (CTOs) used in the U.K. and elsewhere overseas with Kendra's Law as practiced in the U.S. do not give as accurate a picture as studies exclusively on Kendra's Law. They note that the Cochrane Study quoted by opponents of assisted outpatient treatment did not include any of the studies on Kendra's Law, or assisted outpatient treatment as practiced in other states, and only included a pilot program, the Bellevue Outpatient Commitment Program, that was never taken statewide.

In addition, the New York Times reported on Kendra's Law: the "program that orders these patients to receive treatment when they are not hospitalized has had positive results. Patients were much less likely to end up back in psychiatric hospitals and were arrested less often. Use of outpatient treatment significantly increased, as did refills of medication. Costs to the mental health system and Medicaid of caring for these patients dropped by half or more."

Opposition

Kendra's Law is opposed for different reasons by many groups, most notably the anti-psychiatry movement and the New York Civil Liberties Union. Opponents say that the law has harmed the mental health system, because it can deter people from seeking treatment. The implementation of the law is also criticized as being racially and socioeconomically biased.

Studies
A 2017 Cochrane systematic review of the literature, that included three relatively small randomized controlled trials, did not find significant differences in the use of services, social functioning, or quality of life when comparing compulsory community treatment with standard voluntary care or brief supervised discharge. The systematic review did report that people who receive compulsory community treatment may be less likely to be victims of crime, both violent and non-violent.

A randomized, controlled trial published in the Lancet concluded, "the imposition of compulsory supervision does not reduce the rate of readmission of psychotic patients. We found no support in terms of any reduction in overall hospital admission to justify the significant curtailment of patients' personal liberty."

A 2005 study, "Kendra's Law: A Final Report on the Status of Assisted Outpatient Treatment", done by New York State's Office of Mental Health, concluded, "Over a three year period prior to their AOT order, almost all (97%) had been hospitalized (with an average of three hospitalizations per recipient), and many experienced homelessness, arrest, and incarceration. During participation in the AOT program, rates for hospitalizations, homelessness, arrests, and incarcerations have declined significantly, and program participants have experienced a lessening of the stress associated with these events."

The same study found that 55% fewer recipients engaged in suicide attempts or physical harm to self; 47% fewer physically harmed others; 46% fewer damaged or destroyed property; 43% fewer threatened physical harm to others and the average decrease in harmful behaviors was 44%. 74% fewer participants experienced homelessness; 77% fewer experienced psychiatric hospitalization; there was a 56% reduction in length of hospitalization; 83% fewer experienced arrest; 87% fewer experienced incarceration; 49% fewer abused alcohol and 48% fewer abused drugs. The number of individuals exhibiting good adherence to medications increased 51%; The number of individuals exhibiting good service engagement increased 103%.