[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# CSS Chattahoochee

wn, where the water was only  deep, too shallow for her  draft. While waiting to see if the river would rise enough to allow the Chattahoochee to cross the bar, Guthrie learned that the Fashion had been captured and removed from the river, and decided to return to Chattahoochee the next day, May 27.

Boiler explosion and final days
The crew began stoking the boiler, but did not pump water into it for almost two hours, and the boiler exploded at about noon. Nineteen people aboard the Chattahoochee were killed or died later from their wounds, including two or three who drowned while trying to swim to shore. Word was sent upriver, and another ship reached the wreck in the middle of that night. The dead and wounded were moved to the river banks, where they were exposed to the weather. All day on May 27 a hurricane had been moving towards the valley of the Apalachicola River. The hurricane came ashore as a category 2 storm near the city of Apalachicola around sunrise on May 28. The wounded lay on the shore unprotected from the wind and rain for more than 24 hours as the hurricane passed over. The bodies and the wounded were then taken back to Chattahoochee. The wounded did not receive competent medical care until five days after the explosion. A slow leak finally sank the Chattahoochee 40 hours after the explosion.

David Johnston, who had built the Chattahoochee, raised the sunken ship, but left it sitting at his boatyard, where much of its gear was removed. Repair of the ship at the Columbus Navy Yard finally started in December, 1863. Lt. George Washington Gift, who had served under Catesby Jones in Virginia and on the Chattahoochee, and then continued on that ship under John Guthrie, was placed in command of the Chattahoochee in March 1864. At the end of April, Gift tried to take the repaired Chattahoochee on a raid on US Navy ships near Apalachicola, but went aground, and Gift transferred to a civilian steamer. In early June Gift was ordered to return the Chattahoochee to the Columbus Navy Yard, and he and his crew were sent to Savannah, Georgia to man the CSS Waterwitch. Repairs to the Chattahoochee were never completed, and she did not return to service before the end of the war.

When the Confederates abandoned the Apalachicola River in December 1864, Chattahoochee was moved up the Chattahoochee River; she was scuttled near Columbus on 17 April 1865 to avoid capture, just as Union troops approached the city.

Remains
Chattahoochee lay underwater until 1963, when her sunken remains were found within the boundaries of Fort Benning. They later were raised and a portion of her hull and her original steam engines once more returned to her home in Columbus, where they were placed on display at the National Civil War Naval Museum. Because she was scuttled and lay submerged for a century, Chattahoochee is the only Confederate Navy gunboat that survived to the modern era.

Notes and references

Sources

Further reading 
 "An Investigation of the Remains of the Confederate Gunboat CSS Chattahoochee, East Carolina University's Program in Maritime History and Underwater Research

External links 
 C-SPAN video on the CSS Chattahoochee at the National Civil War Naval Museum

Gunboats of the Confederate States Navy
Georgia (U.S. state) in the American Civil War
Shipwrecks on the National Register of Historic Places in Georgia (U.S. state)
Ships built in Georgia (U.S. state)
Maritime incidents in April 1865
Scuttled vessels
Shipwrecks of the American Civil War
Shipwrecks in rivers
National Register of Historic Places in Muscogee County, Georgia
Maritime incidents in May 1863
1863 ships