[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Handmaid's Tale (opera)

ce the tender gesture. During another round of shopping, Offred and Ofglen confide that they are both breaking the law, as Ofglen talks about the resistance movement. Janine joins them before breaking down again, as a result of the execution of her defective child. Janine is taken off for execution.

Offred continues to see Fred privately. Serena Joy tries to bribe Offred into a union with Nick by showing her a photo of Offred's missing daughter. Offred and Nick begin an affair. At a public execution, the Handmaids are given the opportunity to hang a 'rapist', who is part of the underground. Ofglen kicks him into unconsciousness in order to spare him the pain of hanging. Meanwhile, Serena Joy discovers Offred's affair with Fred. The "Eyes of God", the secret police, arrest Offred.

Epilogue

In the video conference context, Professor Pieixoto asks for any questions, prompting the end of the opera with the lights turning on in the theatre. Professor Pieixoto reveals that no one knows what happened to Offred.

Style
The opera is written in a free tonal style, with clear influences from the operas of Alban Berg and from minimalism.  The musical style is narrative rather than lyric, but Offred does have two full arias, several mini-arias, a beautiful and moving duet with her younger self, and she is one of the quartet at the climax of the opera.

Much of the rather haunting atmosphere is built from the repetitive, chanting, choruses of the handmaids.

Performances and recordings
The opera was premiered in Copenhagen on 6 March 2000 by the Danish Royal Opera, conductor Michael Schonwandt, director Phyllida Lloyd, designer Peter McKintosh. It was subsequently recorded by the same company by Dacapo, currently the only recording of the opera in the catalogue.

The Danish production translated Bentley's libretto from English to Danish, which can be heard on the CD recording. This CD recording was then nominated for two Grammy Awards and received the Cannes Classical Award for the best work by a living composer in 2002.

This production transferred to the English National Opera in London's Coliseum Theatre on 3 April 2003 and ran for seven performances between 3 April and 2 May 2003.

The opera's North American premiere was performed by the Minnesota Opera in May 2003, in a new production, conducted by Anthony Walker, director Eric Simonson, designer Robert Israel, and ran there for five performances between 10 and 18 May 2003. The Danish Royal Opera production transferred to Toronto, Margaret Atwood's home town, on 23 September 2004.

In October 2018 Gertrude Opera mounted a production for the Yarra Valley Opera Festival in Melbourne, Australia. Director Linda Thompson, conductor Patrick Burns, designer Joseph Noonan.

Boston Lyric Opera mounted a production in May 2019, conducted by BLO Music Director David Angus, director Anne Bogart, designer James Scheutte.

In April 2022 the Artistic Director of the English National Opera, Annilese Miskimmon, directed a new production for ENO; conductor Joana Carneiro, designer Annemarie Woods.

In October 2022 the Royal Danish Opera mounted a new production in Copenhagen; the director was John Fulljames, the conductor Jessica Cottis, the designer Chloe Lamford.

Offred Suite is an arrangement by the composer, Poul Ruders, in which five of Offred’s arias are interwoven with orchestral interludes from the opera, and the suite ends, as does the opera, with a postlude for full orchestra. It has been recorded by Bridge Records. The CD includes Ruders’ Tundra and his Symphony no. 3 “Dream Catcher”.

Critical reception
Critical reception to the opera's Copenhagen world premiere was almost uniformly positive (e.g. "Add The Handmaid's Tale to the list of recent works that the Metropolitan Opera should feel obliged to present" - New York Times). In London the reviews were mixed and many hostile. While the power of Atwood's story and skill of Bentley's libretto were recognised, some critics felt that the vocal writing was characterless and for some female characters too shrill and highly pitched to allow for proper diction, while the orchestral writing was judged by some to be bombastic.  Others praised Ruders for his composition's sympathy to the spirit of the novel. The Minnesota and Toronto premieres were widely praised by the critics (e.g. "This well-conceived production restores confidence in the possibilities of contemporary opera as compelling theater" - USA Today).

Both the first Copenhagen and London seasons, and the later productions in America and Canada, were successes with the opera-going public, with houses consistently selling out.

Denmark's Queen Margarethe attended the performance every month for four months when the opera premiered in 2000.

Language
The Handmaid's Tale was from the beginning composed for Paul Bentley's  English libretto alongside Ruders' Danish translation of the libretto. The Danish title was Tjenerindens fortælling.