[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ahmed Shaheed

l Cooperation, comprising Afghanistan, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, while from 2009-2010 he served on the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group mandated to oversee the protection of democratic values and human rights in the 54 member association of former British colonies.

On June 17, 2011, Shaheed was appointed as special rapporteur on the Human Rights Situation in Iran by the Human Rights Council of the United Nations. However, for the first time since 2011, the Maldives, with Abdulla Yameen as president, refused to back Shaheed's re-appointment in 2014 as UN envoy, despite public appeals from Iranian civil society. From 2010 to 2012, Shaheed had been the lead investigator of an alleged 800 million dollar fraud by current President Yameen, filing court cases in Singapore High Court through the UK fraud investigator Grant Thornton and Singapore solicitors Rajah and Tan. In September 2013, he stirred considerable animosity from President Yameen when he called for international intervention to facilitate presidential elections when the first round was nullified by the Supreme Court of Maldives. On 23 March 2016, the Human Rights Council voted to extend Shaheed's UN mandate to investigate human rights abuses in the Islamic Republic of Iran for a 6th year, again without the support of his country, the Maldives. The Maldives' failure to support Shaheed this time was explained by a leading government MP as based on his opposition to the re-introduction of the death penalty in the Maldives after a 63-year-old moratorium.

Living in self-imposed exile since the coup d'état of February 2012, Shaheed has been a vociferous campaigner for the restoration of democracy and for the advancement of human rights in Maldives. He has also been active on the international stage advocating human rights protection in Islamic societies, supporting freedom of religion and the abolition of the death penalty. The official newspaper of the Islamist party in Maldives declared in February that Shaheed was the foremost apostate in Maldives. In April 2013, Shaheed was a Guest of Honour at the launch of the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office's 2012 Human Rights and Democracy Report. 

In September 2012, Shaheed joined the Human Rights Centre at the University of Essex as a visiting professor. He teaches human rights, Islam and diplomacy. He is also a Visiting Professor at the City University of New York.

In August 2015, The Guardian reported Iran uses fabricated WikiLeaks cable to smear UN rights rapporteur. It said "Iranian articles claimed that the Saudi embassy in Kuwait had paid the UN envoy $1m to take an anti-Iran position.

Awards and honors 
On 5 May 2009, the Washington-based think-tank Centre for the Study of Islam and Democracy conferred their annual Muslim Democrat of the Year Award to Shaheed. The citation for the award read that it was being given to Shaheed in recognition of his "role in building democracy and preserving it in the face of hardship, for promoting tolerance and harmony, and for opening a window into a century of reason, freedom, human rights and democracy in the Maldives and in South Asia."

On 4 November 2010, the President of Albania awarded him the Presidential Medal of Gratitude for his contribution to promoting peace in the Balkans.

On 3 November 2015, Shaheed, along with then UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon was a recipient of the Global Leadership Awards for advancing human rights. As the recipient of the prestigious Leo Nevas Human Rights Award, Shaheed's citation reads:

Personal life
Shaheed was educated at the University of Aberystwyth, UK, before he obtained his Ph.D. in International Relations at the University of Queensland, Australia. He now lives in England as Visiting Professor of Human Rights Practice at the University of Essex.

See also
Foreign relations of the Maldives
Politics of Maldives

References

External links

Minister of Foreign Affairs
Maldives Presidency

Foreign Ministers of the Maldives
Dhivehi Rayyithunge Party politicians
Living people
United Nations special rapporteurs
1964 births
Maldivian officials of the United Nations