[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# San Francisco Chinese New Year Festival and Parade

lar, the contest opened up to women throughout the U.S.A. The first Miss Chinatown pageant was held on February 15, 1958 at the Great China Theater. Judges included Chin Yang Lee, Joseph Fields, Richard Pollard, Mrs. K. L. Kwong, Mrs. John Yu, and Sally Lee Thompson.

Other community festival events

Asian Art Museum 
The Asian Art Museum of San Francisco holds special events to celebrate the Chinese New Year. They offer Family Fun Days which include activities such as storytelling, gallery activities, and art projects themed to the year's Chinese zodiac animal. Families can learn about Chinese symbols, flowers, and plants through activities. The museum provides educational guides for children so that they can learn about the Lunar New Year, zodiac animals, and win prizes after completing the guide. During the museum's Lunar New Year Celebration event, museum-goers can watch schools come to perform Chinese dances and music, martial arts, a lion dance, and Chinese stories. People can create art projects, learn to walk on stilts, and learn a ribbon dance.

California Academy of Sciences 
The California Academy of Sciences hosts a NightLife event for adults after regular operating hours on Thursdays; since at least 2014, one Thursday night during the Festival is themed for the Lunar New Year. A special lion dance performance by the Jing Mo Athletic Association took place on February 2, 2017.

Chinese Historical Society of America 
Free admission to the Chinese Historical Society of America has been offered during the day of the annual parade. Dragon dancing, arts and crafts and other activities celebrating the traditions of the Chinese New Year were held.

Choy Sun Doe 
Starting in 2019, gold foil-wrapped chocolate coins were passed out in traditional lai see (red envelopes) to children for the one-day Choy Sun Doe event, celebrating the arrival of the god of wealth. Some also included money or a gift certificate.

Presidio Officer's Club 
Families participated in making a pellet drum, used for thousands of years as part of traditional celebrations, using simple materials.

San Francisco Symphony Chinese New Year Celebration 
Each year, the San Francisco Symphony celebrates Chinese New Year with a concert at Davies Symphony Hall. Those who purchase tickets can attend a Festival Reception before the concert at Davies Symphony Hall. This reception includes entertainment such as crafts, arts, lion dancing, calligraphy, food, and tea bars. A Chinese Dragon Dance marks the beginning of the concert and the San Francisco Symphony presents music from Eastern and Western music traditions, and music from Asian composers. After the concert, those who purchased dinner packages can attend the Imperial Dinner held at the Zellerbach Rehearsal Hall on 300 Franklin Street. The Orchestra's musical education programs, from over 75,00 school in the Bay Area, receive the proceeds from the Festival Reception and Imperial Dinner.

SF Beer Week 
SF Beer Week included a dim sum beer brunch on February 11, 2017.

SF Chinese Chamber of Commerce/Southwest Airlines Basketball Jamboree 
Every year about sixty children, three teams of girls and three teams of boys, from San Francisco Middle Schools and Chinatown North Beach community play six basketball games to celebrate Chinese New Year.

Parade

The parade is the climactic event, held at the close of festivities. Private celebrations of Chinese New Year began in 1851, and the first dragon was paraded in 1860. Scenes from the 1961 parade were used in the film Flower Drum Song. By 1974, a crowd estimated at 420,000 people watched the parade.

The modern parades that started in 1953 initially were routed along Grant Avenue from Market through Chinatown, although crowds were starting to overwhelm the narrow street by 1962. In 1965, the route was changed to bypass the narrow portion of Grant, detouring at Bush to Kearny. Community leaders in Chinatown were displeased, but city officials forced the route change to avoid traffic jams and a potential fire hazard. The route was updated again in 1981 to its present course, which includes a loop around Union Square. Despite the route changes, the start and finish have remained on Market and next to Portsmouth Square on Kearny, respectively, with the sole exception of 1965, when in addition to bypassing Grant, the start was also moved to Civic Center.

Because the parade finishes shortly after passing under the Dr. Rolland and Kathryn Lowe Community Bridge between Portsmouth Square and the Chinese Culture Center, in recent years, admission to the bridge is restricted to ticketed guests for a viewing party during the night of the parade.

Gum Lung