[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Newar caste system

astes and other Tibeto-Burman speaking peoples. Members of this group are touchable and water acceptable. Similarly, Newar untouchables and the clearly water-unacceptable but touchable groups are also untouchable or water-unacceptable to the Khas Brahmans and Chetris.

Inside the castes

Hindu Newar

Rājopādhyāya Brahmins
Rājopādhyāya Brahmins are on top of the Hindu Newar social hierarchy. Referred to as 'Deva Brahman'(God Brahmin) or colloquially as 'Dyah Baje'(God Grandfather) or as 'Upadhyaya' (teacher), these Brahmins with surnames Rajopadhyaya, Sharma, Acharya, among others, serve as family priest (purohit) primarily to the Hindu Srēṣṭha clans. They also serve as the Vedic temple priests of some of the most important temples of the Vaishnav sect, including Krishna Mandir and the four cardinal Vishnu temples of Kathmandu Valley; Changu Narayan, Sesh Narayan, Bishankhu Narayan, and Ichanghu Narayan. They also serve as chief priests of the three Taleju Bhawani temples, the ista-devi of Mallas, the Kumbeshvar temple, among others. The Rajopadhyayas speak Newari language and were historically the raj-purohitas and gurus of the Licchavi and Malla kings. They claim descent from Kanyakubja Brahmins, one of the five Pancha-Gauda North Indian Brahmin groupings, are divided among four  exogamous lineage gotras- Bharadwaj, Kaushik, Garga and Kaundinya, and their history shows their presence in the Kathmandu valley as early as 4th CE. The Rajopadhyayas still keep a strong tradition of Vedic rituals alive, a fact exemplified for instance at the recent Lakhhōma and Ashvamedha performed with contributions of the whole town of Bhaktapur. The Brahmins are higher in caste status than the king not because they are more powerful, but because of their superior ritual status. The Brahmins were like all other specialized service providers, except that they were considered higher to others in ritual purity.

Maithil Brahmins
Maithil Brahmins or colloquially Tirhute Brahmin with surnames Jhā and Miśra serve as temple priests and are later additions to the Newar nation, their population being slightly less than that of the Rajopadhyaya Brahmins. Most notably, these Maithil Brahmins claim descent from the time of the 1324 A.D. migration of the Maithil-Karnata King Hari Simha Deva from Simraungadh along with other notable clans like the Chatharīyas. Some also claim to have been descended from those Brahmins who came to Nepal as late as 17th CE as respected guests and royal priests of the Malla kings. They speak Newari, follow most Newar traditions, and also serve as temple priests and as purohits for some Newars. But unlike the Rajopadhyaya Brahmins, most Newars do not consider them as being true Newar or as their Newar Brahmins, and accord them with lower caste-status than the Rajopadhyayas. Maithil Brahmins do not consider themselves as 'true' Newars either because unlike the Rajopadhyayas, they claim that their arrival to the Nepal Valley is much more recent, and they have always maintained matrimonial and ceremonial ties with the Terai, never fully integrating in the Newar social fabric.

Srēṣṭha
Srēṣṭha or colloquially Sya:sya is the immediate second-ranking group among Shivamargi (Hindu) Newars. They are the most dominant Newar caste that includes the old Newari aristocracy as well as the traditional land-owning and mercantile families. Within the Sresthas there are three hierarchically ranked, traditionally endogamous groups which describe themselves as i. Kshatriya or colloquially Chatharīya, ii. Pañchthariya, and iii. Chārtharīya. Among them, only the Chatharīya and Pañchthariya are the two historically accepted and renowned social classes among the Srēṣṭha themselves.  Despite the varna and endogamous caste differences between Chatharīya and Pañchthariya from the inside, non-Srēṣṭhas often tend to see them as a singular composite unit from the outside. They accord both the groups with the collective status of 'Srēṣṭha' or 'Sya:sya' because of their common socio-cultural and upper-caste and class identifier as the chief landlord/patron Hindu group.