[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Plasan SandCat

g to the rear flanks. The softer original Stormer look remained available. The facelifted SandCat evolved into a family of Vehicles with single-cab, double-cab, and other variants tailored to particular missions or payloads. An example of this tailoring would be the vehicles supplied to South Korea.

Fourth-generation models were shown for the first time in June 2018 and are described by the manufacturer as having a more flexible and modular architecture. Fourth generation SandCats are available in three baseline configurations; troop carrier, utility and a single cab version.  The Troop Carrier which seats up to 10 is fully enclosed. The Utility has a fully armoured crew-type cab that seats up to five, while the Single Cab option seats up to three. In both instances, The rear chassis of the utility and single cab variants is available for a variety of payload options. In terms of styling, for recognition, for the first time there are no visible Ford parts on the fourth generation vehicle's exterior, the bonnet now a Plasan design. The new front has been designed to more easily allow for localisation or alternative identities. The default is a new interpretation of the feline SandCat grille first introduced on the second-generation model. A new window design has allowed for greater commonality across variants, there now being four unique glass shapes as opposed to eight on third-generation SandCats. The previous window designs remain available on request.

Technical description
The SandCat is based on a well-proven Ford Super Duty commercial pick-up chassis to reduce through life cycle costs, and automotives used in all SandCat generations have remained standard Ford wherever possible.

Automotives used in all SandCat generations have remain standard Ford wherever possible, the latest fourth-generation models powered by a Ford PowerStroke 6.7-litre V8 diesel developing 330 hp and coupled to a Ford TorqShift six-speed automatic transmission. Standard F550 drive axles are retained, however the front coil and rear leaf springs plus the brakes are uprated/tuned to suit operating weight. On second-generation models the rear leaf springs were swapped for a Plasan-designed coil spring and trailing arm set-up. Some elements of the electrical system are upgraded to suit specific requirements, with 24 V available if required.

The overall design of the SandCat is such that it can be adopted to perform a wide range of military and Police/internal security-related missions. The original SandCat featured a four- or five-seat protected crew citadel, this having two doors on each side plus two rear doors in the crew citadel that open into an open-topped rear stowage area. This stowage area which could be covered if required, is open-topped to save weight. First-generation ‘station wagon’ vehicles for Sweden could seat eight in an extended fully enclosed rear body. Second-generation models could seat up to five (Utility) or eight (Transport/TPV). Third-generation models seat up to 10.

Fourth-generation models, which are described by the manufacturer as having a more flexible and modular architecture, are available in three core configurations. The Troop Carrier which seats up to 10 is fully enclosed. The Utility has a fully armoured crew-type cab that seats up to five, while the Single Cab option seats up to three. In both instances, the rear of the chassis is available for a variety of payload options. Given the inherent adaptability of the base platform and the modularity of the SandCat's design, other configurations are possible.

In terms of styling for recognition, for the first time there are no visible Ford parts on the vehicle's exterior, the bonnet now a Plasan design. The new front has been designed to more easily allow for localisation or alternative identities. The default is a new interpretation of the feline SandCat grille first introduced on the second-generation model. A new window design has allowed for greater commonality across variants, there now being four unique glass shapes as opposed to eight on third-generation SandCats. The previous window designs remain available on request.

With regard to armouring, Plasan refers to SandCat's armouring as a kitted hull, this consisting of a selection overlapping bolted and bonded (not welded) panels. Armour composition has not been disclosed but is understood to include a steel base layer with a mix of internal/external aluminium, composite/ceramic and Kevlar components. The advantages of a bolted/bonded construction are stated to be ease of repair following damage, the option to upgrade parts or all of the protection as new technologies emerge, plus the ability to swap out specific panels to reconfigure a vehicle. An example here might be replacing a solid roof panel for one with a hatch and/or the ability to mount a weapon station. Firing ports for the crew are standard.