[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Maroun al-Ras

i outpost, code-named "Shaked".

"We didn’t know what hit us," said one of the Maglan soldiers. "In seconds we had two dead." "We expected a tent and three Kalashnikovs – that was the intelligence we were given. Instead, we found a hydraulic steel door leading to a well-equipped network of tunnels."

The battle of Maroun al-Ras
The news about the clash at the Nature Reserve came as a shock to the Israeli General Command. The IDF paratroopers' Recon Company was quickly sent as reinforcements to Maroun al-Ras to help evacuate the entangled Maglan unit. On the night of the 19th of July, the paratroopers moved towards the village accompanied by two tanks of the 7th regiment. On the morning of the 20th, the two tanks had reached the outskirts of the village and were ambushed by anti tank missiles. The paratroopers suppressed the village, helping the tanks to evacuate, and sent a team of 6 to enter a house to secure the parameter from above. As they entered the house the paratroopers found it to have big windows, which endangered them, thus decided to move on to another house. As the commander of the team left the house he was caught by heavy fire, including missiles on the house. The house was burning, and so the commander and another soldier tried to enter the house from the southern part, to meet the entangled soldiers inside, yet were fired upon again. At this time, a Hezbollah  fighter threw a grenade on the two soldiers, yet the commander took the grenade and threw it back, killing the Hezbollah  fighter. The two soldiers couldn't make it into the burning house, so they reached another house where the major was stationed. Several Hezbollah  fighters charged into the house, but were repelled and killed from effective fire fired on them from the house. After five hours, the trapped soldiers could make it outside the burning house, covered by artillery and helicopters, and reached the main house, whilst capturing a Hezbollah radio transmitter. The forces listened to Hezbollah  fighters, and acquired knowledge of their whereabouts. The soldiers used sniper fire on the remaining Hezbollah  fighters, and in the evening the Hezbollah commander ordered a withdrawal from the village. None of the paratroopers were injured during this battle. 

On the same morning of July 20, the commander of the elite Egoz Reconnaissance Unit, Lieutenant Colonel Mordechai Kahana, was summoned to his brigade officer and was ordered to help extricate the supposedly trapped paratroopers. Egoz was created in 1995 specifically for the purpose of fighting Hezbollah in Southern Lebanon. Kahana at first rejected the notion of advancing through open terrain in broad daylight. "This is a suicide mission," he claimed but in the end he complied.

By the end of the day "thousands" of Israeli soldiers were operating in South Lebanon, apparently mainly in and around Maroun ar-Ras. The Israeli soldiers were "searching for tunnels... often dug under homes in villages". 
An Egoz company attacked a suspicious vehicle, apparently transporting wounded Hezbollah  fighters that were injured during the battle with Paratrooper Reconnaissance, to nearby town Bint Jbeil. 
The unit was then noticed by Hezbollah units in Bint Jbeil, which attacked the Israelis with a volley of Sagger missiles, killing a senior officer, Major Benjamin Hillman, and two soldiers. Another Egoz company were sent in to evacuate the dead and the wounded but were targeted by another volley of Sagger missiles leading to further casualties. 
Meanwhile, the third company got into a firefight inside the village where another soldier was killed. In total five Egoz soldiers died and six were wounded that day in the fighting. It was the bloodiest day in the unit's history.

One of the Egoz casualties, Yonatan Vlasyuk, was missing and could not be found until the next day.