[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 126]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

is
hearers. He drew the portrait of an ingenious and modest young man who
had been bred up to virtuous toils and manly hardiness; he painted him
triumphant over all his passions, and trampling upon human fears and
weakness: 'Should his country be invaded, you see him fly to its
defence, and ready to pour forth all his blood; calm and composed he
appears, with a terrible beauty, in the front of danger; the ornament
and bulwark of his country; the thickest squadrons are penetrated by his
resistless valour, and he points the path of victory to his admiring
followers. Should he fall in battle, how glorious is his lot; to be cut
off in the honourable discharge of his duty; to be wept by all the brave
and virtuous, and to survive in the eternal records of fame?'

"While Xenocrates was thus discoursing, Polemo seemed to be transported
with a sacred enthusiasm; his eyes flashed fire, his countenance glowed
with martial indignation, and the whole expression of his person was
changed. Presently the philosopher, who had remarked the effect of his
discourse, painted in no less glowing colours the life and manners of an
effeminate young man; 'Unhappy youth,' said he, 'what word shall I find
equal to thy abasement? Thou art the reproach of thy parents, the
disgrace of thy country, the scorn or pity of every generous mind. How
is nature dishonoured in thy person, and all her choicest gifts
abortive! That strength which would have rendered thee the glory of thy
city and the terror of her foes, is basely thrown away on luxury and
intemperance; thy youth and beauty are wasted in riot, and prematurely
blasted by disease. Instead of the eye of fire, the port of intrepidity,
the step of modest firmness, a squalid paleness sits upon thy face, a
bloated corpulency enfeebles thy limbs, and presents a picture of human
nature in its most abject state. But hark! the trumpet sounds; a savage
band of unrelenting enemies has surrounded the city, and are preparing
to scatter flames and ruin through the whole! The virtuous youth, that
have been educated to nobler cares, arm with generous emulation, and fly
to its defence. How lovely do they appear, dressed in resplendent arms,
and moving slowly on in close impenetrable phalanx! They are animated by
every motive which can give energy to a human breast, and lift it up to
the sublimest achievements. Their hoary sires, their venerable
magistrates, the beauteous forms of trembling virgins, attend them to
the war, with prayers and acclamations. Go forth, ye generous bands,
secure to meet the rewards of victory or the repose of honourable death!
Go forth, ye generous bands, but unaccompanied by the wretch I have
described! His feeble arm refuses to bear the ponderous shield; the
pointed spear sinks feebly from his grasp; he trembles at the noise and
tumult of the war, and flies like the hunted hart to lurk in shades and
darkness. Behold him roused from his midnight orgies, reeking with wine
and odours, and crowned with flowers, the only trophies of his warfare;
he hurries with trembling steps across the city; his voice, his gait,
his whole deportment, proclaim the abject slave of intemperance, and
stamp indelible infamy upon his name.'

"While Xenocrates was thus discoursing, Polemo listened with fixed
attention. The former animation of his countenance gave way to a visible
dejection; presently his lips trembled and his cheeks grew pale; he was
lost in melancholy recollection, and a silent tear was observed to
trickle down. But when the philosopher described a character so like his
own, shame seemed to take entire possession of his soul; and, rousing as
from a long and painful lethargy, he softly raised his hand to his head,
and tore away the chaplets of flowers, the monuments of his effeminacy
and disgrace; he seemed intent to compose his dress into a more decent
form, and wrapped his robe about him, which before hung loosely waving
with an air of studied effeminacy. But when Xenocrates had finished his
discourse, Polemo approached him with all the humility of conscious
guilt, and begged to become his disciple, telling him that he had that
day gained the most glorious conquest that had ever been achieved by
reason and philosophy, by inspiring with the love of virtue a mind that
had been hitherto plunged in folly and sensuality. Xenocrates embraced
the young man, and admitted him among his disciples. Nor had he ever
reason to repent of his facility; for Polemo, from that hour, abandoned
all his former companions and vices, and by his uncommon ardour for
improvement, very soon became celebrated for virtue and wisdom, as he
had before been for every contrary quality."

"Thus," added Mr Barlow, "you see how little reason there is to despair
of youth, even in the most disadvantageous circumstances. It has been
justly observed, that few know all they are capable of: the seeds of
different qualities frequently lie concealed in t