[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Obsession: Radical Islam's War Against the West

Obsession: Radical Islam's War Against the West is a 2005 documentary film about the purported threat of Islamism to Western civilization. The film shows Islamic radicals preaching hate speech and seeking to incite global jihad. It also draws parallels between World War II's Nazi movement and Islamism and the West's response to those threats.

Wayne Kopping of South Africa co-wrote and directed the film. Raphael Shore, a Canadian-Israeli, co-wrote and produced the film, and is the founder of The Clarion Fund, the film's distributor.  The movie has received praise from conservative media personalities such as Glenn Beck and Sean Hannity.

Segments of the movie were broadcast on CNN Headline News and in several specials on Fox News. The movie was also screened on 30 college campuses and Capitol Hill.  The unusual distribution of 28 million free Obsession DVDs as an insert in over 70 newspapers, predominantly in swing states, before the United States 2008 presidential election garnered much attention, with five newspapers refusing to distribute the DVD. National Public Radio reported that it was unclear as to who funded Clarion's distribution of the DVD.

Synopsis
The movie begins with the following statement:

The film uses many images from broadcasting networks, provided by the Middle East Media Research Institute and Palestinian Media Watch.

Contributors
The following people were interviewed in the movie:

Nonie Darwish – Egyptian-American human rights activist
Alan Dershowitz – American lawyer, jurist, and political commentator
Steven Emerson – American journalist and author
Brigitte Gabriel – Lebanese American journalist, author, and activist
Martin Gilbert – British historian and author
Caroline Glick – American-Israeli journalist
Alfons Heck – was interviewed as a former member of Hitler Youth
Glen Jenvey – British journalist
John Loftus – American author, former US government prosecutor and former Army intelligence officer
Salim Mansur – Indian-Canadian columnist
Itamar Marcus – Israeli political activist, founder and director of Palestinian Media Watch
Daniel Pipes – American writer, and political blogger
Tashbih Sayyed – Pakistani-American scholar, journalist, and author
Walid Shoebat – Palestinian immigrant to the United States, interviewed as a former PLO militant
Khaled Abu Toameh – Israeli Arab journalist and documentary filmmaker
Robert Wistrich – professor of European and Jewish history at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
Khaleel Mohammed
Khaleel Mohammed, an associate professor of religious studies at San Diego State University and the only Islamic Studies Professor interviewed
discussed the meaning of jihad and its misuse by extremists. Mohammed later distanced himself and apologised for his participation claiming he had believed the film would be "used objectively, focusing on fanatics who seek to spread violence" rather than Islam itself.

Production
Wayne Kopping co-wrote, directed, and edited the film.
Raphael Shore co-wrote and produced the film. Shore, a Canadian-Israeli film writer, producer, is also founder of The Clarion Fund.  Kopping and Shore previously collaborated on Relentless: The Struggle for Peace in the Middle East. Brett Halperin, named as the production manager, is an alias according to Shore.

Executive producer Peter Mier, an alias for an unnamed Canadian Jewish businessman, provided about 80 percent of the film's $400,000 budget, according to Raphael Shore.
According to IRS documents obtained by the Center for Investigative Reporting, financial support for the film came from an organization named Castello Limited.

Promotion and screenings
The film was initially promoted via the internet by HonestReporting and later through campus and Washington, DC screenings and later mass DVD distribution by the Clarion Fund. HonestReporting, a media watch organization run by Ephraim Shore, the twin brother of Obsession producer Raphael Shore, was involved in the initial internet-based promotion of the film. During production in 2005, HonestReporting promoted the film as one of its projects.  Later when the film was released, HonestReporting promoted the film on its website describing it as an "affiliate" project. The group, in an interview with The Jewish Week, says it was not involved in the film's production.

CNN Headline News showed segments of the film, as did Fox News, which also hosted segments on its website.
In November 2006, a one-hour special that included parts of the film aired on Fox seven times.

The documentary has been screened on 30 major campuses including Hofstra, Pace, USC, UCLA, NYU,
and McGill.

In December 2006, U.S. Representatives Eric Cantor (R-VA), Chief Deputy Majority Whip, and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) co-sponsored a screening of the film on Capitol Hill. Cantor's cousin and Wasserman Schultz's constituent, Daniel Cantor Wultz, was killed in an attack by an Islamic Jihad suicide bomber.