[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Miķelis Valters

he was appointed to head the Latvian diplomatic delegation in Rome, then subsequently in Paris. He was one of the closest assistants to the first Foreign Minister of Latvia, Zigfrīds Anna Meierovics, working on Latvia's de jure recognition internationally and its admission to the League of Nations.

Valters is also credited with formulating the clause in Article I of the Latvian Constitution (the Satversme, adopted in 1922) stating that "the sovereign power of the State of Latvia is vested in the people of Latvia" (Latvijas tauta) rather than the Latvian people (latviešu tauta), and is thus responsible for laying part of the legal groundwork for a multi-ethnic nation-state and political nation. Baltic-German journalist and political activist Paul Schiemann (Pauls Šīmanis) subsequently made this the cornerstone of his revolutionary concept of separation of nation (Volksgemeinschaft—national community) and of state (Staatsgemeinschaft—state community), which formed the cornerstones of his pioneering Latvian model for implementing minority participation and rights.

Valters left the Farmer's Union Party in 1925.

In the latter half of the 1930s, in the press but mainly in personal correspondence with Kārlis Ulmanis and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Vilhelms Munters, Valters expressed criticism for the foreign policies which both were pursuing. In Valter's opinion, the deepest failure and tragedy of Latvia's diplomacy was their pursuit of a policy of neutrality which included a cleavage from France and Great Britain, for which he held Munters chiefly responsible, under whose leadership "neutralism became a German-Russian expediency, uninvolved in anyone's, even one's own, affairs". Since Valters had already reached retirement age, Munters repeatedly urged Ulmanis to grant Valters his pension and appoint some younger diplomat in his place. Ulmanis finally relented, that after envoy J. Lazdiņš in Belgium retired, Valters should be transferred from Warsaw to the less important posting of Brussels. Valters was appointed envoy in Brussels, in which position he remained until the Nazi occupation in May, 1940. Belgium was among the nations which never recognized the USSR's annexation of Latvia.

Toward the end of WWII, on January 27, 1945, envoys still representing Latvia's sovereign interests Jūlijs Feldmanis (Switzerland), Miķelis Valters (Belgium), and Vilis Šūmans (Estonia) sent a telegram to British Prime Minister Winston Churchill prior to the meeting of the Great Powers, emphatically protesting against the occupation and annexation of Latvia by the USSR.

After 1940, Valters lived in Switzerland and France, practiced law and journalism, and continued to serve Latvia's sovereign interests in his diplomatic capacity until his death, on March 26, 1968, in Nice, France. His remains were buried in Nice's East Cemetery and subsequently exhumed on August 11, 2020, returned to Latvia, and his ashes reburied in Rīga's I Forest Cemetery.

Commemoration 

 The Liepāja library is named for Valters.
 On May 21, 2009, the Latvian Ministry of the Interior held Dr. Miķelis Valters' 135th anniversary observation and unveiled his memorial plaque.
 On May 7, 2021, Valters' birthday, Miķelis Valters Street (Miķeļa Valtera iela) was unveiled in Liepāja, the city of his birth, along with a memorial plaque.

References

External links 
 Valters Miķelis - Vēstures terminu skaidrojošā vārdnīca, Historical Terminology Dictionary (in Latvian)
 Latviešu mākslas teorija 1900-1940: ideju un ietekmju kartējums, Latvian arts theory (at archive.org, in Latvian)
 Liepājā svinīgi atklāta Miķeļa Valtera iela, Miķeļis Valters street, including a memorial plaque, is unveiled (in Latvian)

1874 births
1968 deaths
Politicians from Liepāja
People from Courland Governorate
Revolutionary Socialist Party of Latvia politicians
Latvian Farmers' Union politicians
Ministers of the Interior of Latvia
Members of the People's Council of Latvia