[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Declaration of Montreal

he repeal of all laws preventing consensual same-sex activity is called for.

Freedom from discrimination
LGBT people face discrimination in many aspects of their lives. Governments are called upon to take positive actions to promote LGBT rights to freedom from discrimination in the following areas:

Asylum and immigration rights
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees recognises a right to asylum for those fleeing persecution based on sexual orientation or gender identity. All countries are called upon to do the same. In addition, rights of residence for foreign partners are demanded to be free from discrimination against LGBT people.

Family rights
Families are stated to be the most important part of many people's lives. The Declaration requires marriages to be opened up to same-sex couples, all unmarried couples to have similar partnership rights and ensuring equal access for all to every option for parenthood, including adoptions by LGBT people.

Education healthcare, media and employment
In education, classes on LGBT human rights are sought and schools are required to take action against homophobic bullying. The media are called upon to assist in breaking down stereotypes and to portray LGBT people in a realistic manner. The necessity of access to health care in general and for the specific needs of LGBT people is stressed. In particular funding for sex reassignment surgery is expected to be provided to the same extent that it is for other medically necessary treatments. Finally, religious groups are encouraged to be tolerant towards LGBT people.

Employment
The Declaration calls for the development of programmes to promote fair chances in employment and business for LGBT people for their economic independence and self-esteem to be insured. Governments are asked to lead by example in eliminating such discrimination and in promoting the equality and safety of LGBT people in public sector workplaces and trade unions.

Global issues in promoting LGBT rights
To promote LGBT rights globally, the Declaration requires the international community to engage in a worldwide information campaign and calls upon like-minded NGOs and governments to assist in preparing and running such a campaign. Part of this campaign would be to provide education about the prevention and treatment of HIV and AIDS among LGBT people and governments are generally encouraged to include LGBT people in their fight against HIV and AIDS.

The failure of the United Nations to recognise LGBT rights as human rights is condemned, despite the case law Toonen v. Australia by the United Nations Human Rights Committee. It is requested that the new UN Human Rights Council adopt LGBT rights as part of its agenda and that the International Gay and Lesbian Association and other LGBT rights organisations be amongst the NGOs that are able to consult with the Council. And at last, the Declaration calls on all nations in the world and United Nations to recognize and promote the 17 May of each year as the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia.

Implementation

The Montreal borough of Ville-Marie was the first elected body in the world to officially adopt the Declaration in on August 1, 2006, whilst the New Democratic Party became the first political party to do so, by a unanimous vote of its federal convention on September 10, 2006. Accordingly, the NDP's critic for LGBT rights, Bill Siksay, presented a motion in the House of Commons of Canada calling on the Canadian government to abide by the Declaration on September 20, 2006.

The Declaration has also been adopted by the City councils of:
 Montreal, Canada
 Barcelona, Spain
 San Francisco, United States
 Denver, United States
 Sydney, Australia

See also

LGBT rights
LGBT social movements
Homosexuality laws of the world
Violence against LGBT people
Hate crime
Healthcare and the LGBT community
Same-sex marriage
Toonen v. Australia
LGBT adoption
Legal status of transgender people
The Yogyakarta Principles

References

External links
Website on the Declaration of Montreal
English version of the Declaration of Montreal (PDF)

2006 in Quebec
2006 documents
LGBT rights
LGBT history in Canada
History of Montreal
World Outgames
LGBT culture in Montreal
2006 in LGBT history
Human rights instruments
Intersex rights
July 2006 events in Canada
Manifestos