[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Paul Caddis

Paul McLean Caddis (born 19 April 1988) is a Scottish football coach and former professional footballer who is manager of National League North side Hereford. Caddis played in more than 350 professional matches at club level and represented his country at youth and senior levels. Having predominantly played as either a right back or right winger, he could also play as a left back or anywhere across the midfield, due to his versatility and his ability with both feet. He has played for both Celtic and Swindon Town in all positions, apart from striker and goalkeeper.

Caddis started his career with Scottish Premier League club Celtic. He broke into the first team during the 2007–08 season, but never managed to hold down a starting place over the next few years. He spent the second half of the 2008–09 season on loan to Dundee United. Caddis was sold to English League One club Swindon Town in August 2010. He spent the 2012–13 season on loan to Birmingham City, joined the club on a permanent contract in September 2013, and in the final match of that season, he scored the stoppage-time goal that saved the team from relegation from the Championship.

After three-and-a-half seasons in his second spell with Birmingham, his contract was cancelled by mutual consent in January 2017. A short spell with Bury of League One preceded a season with Blackburn Rovers and seven months with Bradford City. He rejoined Swindon Town in November 2019, played his last match in 2021, and announced his retirement a year later.

Caddis played regularly for the Scotland under-21 team and also captained the side. He made his full international debut for Scotland in 2016.

Having joined Fleetwood Town as an academy coach in 2021, he was then appointed as manager of Hereford in April 2023, in his first managerial role.

Early and personal life
Paul Caddis was born in Irvine, North Ayrshire, on 19 April 1988 and attended St Joseph's Academy in Kilmarnock. His older brother, Ryan, and younger brother Liam played League football in Scotland football, and the youngest, Dylan, was on Kilmarnock's books as a youngster and played for Clyde in the Scottish Cup. In the 2016–17 season, all three of his brothers were playing together at Scottish junior club Ardrossan Winton Rovers. He is married with two daughters.

Caddis was playing youth football for Ayrshire Rangers when he was scouted by and signed for Rangers. He spent two years in Rangers' youth system before moving on to Celtic, the team he supported.

Club career

Celtic
Caddis trained with the under-17s team at Celtic before moving to the under 19s, where he quickly became captain. He often trained with the Celtic first team. He made his competitive debut coming on as a substitute in Celtic's 1–0 victory away to Falkirk on 27 January 2008. He then made his first start just six days later against Kilmarnock at Rugby Park in the Scottish Cup. He assisted Scott McDonald for the first goal in the 5–1 victory. Caddis made his home debut on 20 February against Barcelona in the Champions League last 16 first leg fixture. He went on to play 17 times in the Scottish Premier League for Celtic.

Caddis appeared in Celtic's 3–3 Europa League draw with Rapid Vienna in December 2009.

Dundee United (loan)
On 2 February 2009, Caddis joined Dundee United on loan until the end of the season. The opportunity to develop under Craig Levein was a key factor in his decision. He made his debut against Inverness CT on 14 February playing the full 90 minutes on the right wing as the game ended 1–1. He returned to Celtic after playing his last game for the Tangerines in a 3–0 defeat to Rangers on 24 May, having made 11 appearances for the club.

Swindon Town
In August 2010, Caddis and fellow Celtic youth team graduate Simon Ferry joined English League One club Swindon Town for an undisclosed fee. The 22-year-old Caddis, who said he left Celtic for regular first-team football, signed a three-year contract. Manager Danny Wilson commented favourably on his versatility, and played him in midfield as well as at full back. He made his debut in the Football League Cup against Leyton Orient, and made 42 appearances during the 2010–11 season as Swindon were relegated to League Two.

Caddis remained at Swindon for the 2011–12 season in League Two despite a number of players leaving the club after the relegation. Swindon began the season with new addition Oliver Risser as captain, but Caddis took the armband after Risser suffered an injury. Despite Risser's return to fitness, manager Paolo di Canio decided to name Caddis as captain for the remainder of the season. He was ever-present for most of the season, missing a handful of games in March and April – including the Football League Trophy final defeat – due to an ankle injury. He and Matt Ritchie were named in the League Two PFA Team of the Year as Swindon were promoted as champions. At the end of the season, he agreed an extension to his contract until 2014.