[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Shining Victory

Shining Victory  is a 1941 American drama film based on the 1940 play  Jupiter Laughs, by A. J. Cronin.  It stars James Stephenson, Geraldine Fitzgerald, Donald Crisp, and Barbara O'Neil. It is the first film directed by Irving Rapper. Bette Davis makes a brief cameo appearance as a nurse.

Plot summary
Dr. Paul Venner, a brilliant research psychiatrist, is driven from Budapest by his superior, who has published and taken credit for Paul's work. In London, an old friend, Dr. Drewett, introduces him to the head of a Scottish sanatorium who offers him the opportunity to continue his research on dementia praecox, a disease from which Paul's father suffered.

Dr. Mary Murray becomes his laboratory assistant. They fall in love, but she plans to engage in medical missionary work in China in a year's time.  Paul convinces her to remain with him, and the two become engaged. A fire breaks out in the lab, and Mary dies saving Paul's irreplaceable records. Heartbroken, Paul declines posts at several prestigious universities in order to realize Mary's dream of helping the sick in war-torn China.

The working title of the film was Winged Victory, but it was changed after it was discovered that Moss Hart was writing a play with this title. Hart's Winged Victory was filmed in 1944.

Cast
 James Stephenson as Dr. Paul Venner
 Geraldine Fitzgerald as Dr. Mary Murray
 Donald Crisp as Dr. Drewett
 Barbara O'Neil as Miss Leeming
 Montagu Love as Dr. Blake
 Sig Ruman as Professor Herman Von Reiter
 George Huntley, Jr. as Dr. Thornton
 Richard Ainley as Dr. Hale
 Bruce Lester as Dr. Bentley
 Leonard Mudie as Mr. Foster
 Doris Lloyd as Mrs. Foster
 Frank Reicher as Dr. Esterhazy
 Hermine Sterler as Miss Hoffman 
 Billy Bevan as Chivers
 Clare Verdera as Miss Dennis 
 Crauford Kent as Dr. Corliss
 Alec Craig as Jeweller
 Louise Brien as Nurse 
 Bette Davis as Nurse
 Barlowe Borland as Patient (uncredited)

See also
 List of American films of 1941

External links 

 Shining Victory at Turner Classic Movies (trailer)
 TCM article
 
 
 

1941 films
1941 drama films
American drama films
American black-and-white films
1940s English-language films
Films scored by Max Steiner
Films about psychiatry
Films based on works by A. J. Cronin
American films based on plays
Films directed by Irving Rapper
Films set in Scotland
Films set in London
Films set in the 20th century
Medical-themed films
Warner Bros. films
Films with screenplays by Howard Koch (screenwriter)
1941 directorial debut films
1940s American films
English-language drama films