[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Cross-Strait charter

sail.
Far Eastern Air Transport flew to Xiamen with their painted plane "unlimited dignity", showing respect to all charter passengers.

2008 Humanitarian flights
Date: May 16, 2008

Airlines: EVA Air (Chongqing), China Airlines (Chongqing), TransAsia Airways (Chongqing), Mandarin Airlines (Chengdu)

Due to the Sichuan earthquake, many Taiwan travelers were unable to get flights out of the quake region. Both governments reached a deal and chartered four flights to depart from Chengdu and Chongqing to Taiwan on May 16, 2008.

2008 Charters

Under the agreement reached on June 13, 2008, charter flights began on weekends starting July 4, 2008. A total of 18 flights per weekend (Friday to Monday) are allowed under this agreement. Unlike previous charters, anyone with legal traveling documents, regardless of nationality, was allowed to travel on these charter flights. Initially, mainland China permitted flights from Beijing, Shanghai (Pudong Airport), Guangzhou, Xiamen, and Nanjing airports, and the plan was to permit flights from Chengdu, Chongqing, Dalian, Guilin, Shenzhen, Shenyang, Xian and other spots with market demand in the future, while the ROC government permitted flights from Taiwan Taoyuan Airport, Taipei Songshan Airport, Kaohsiung, Taichung, Makung, Hualien, Kinmen, and Taitung.

On July 4, 2008, the first flight carrying 230 passengers belonging to China Southern Airlines arrived at Taoyuan International Airport.

Three Links
Started on 15 December 2008, direct flights, direct shippings and direct mail are fully restored between mainland China and Taiwan per the Three Links agreement. It marks the end of cross-strait charter flights and marks the beginning of regular scheduled flights. Shanghai and Taipei Area Control Center can pass traffic to each other at SULEM (Waypoint in Aviation) in the northern flight path while no direct pass-off for southern flight path.

See also

Three Links
Political status of Taiwan
History of the Republic of China
Cross-Straits relations
Kuomintang

References

Aviation agreements
2003 in aviation
Cross-Strait relations