[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Port of Haifa

Passenger terminal

The port contains a modern passenger terminal serving cruise and ferry passengers. The terminal offers a waiting area, duty-free shop, souvenir shop, cafeteria, VAT reimbursement counter, currency exchange, free wireless internet, parking, as well as other services to travelers.

The area near the terminal also offers excellent public transit connections for passengers. The Haifa Center Railway Station is adjacent to the terminal and is served by nearly 200 passenger trains 24 hours a day on weekdays to the Haifa region and beyond. Additional public transit connections are available by bus or taxi at the railway station or on Ha'Atsma'ut Road, the main thoroughfare in downtown Haifa which is located in front of the station. The Carmelit's Kikar Paris subway station is also within walking distance and allows convenient access to the top of Mount Carmel.

Expansion
As of 2018, the Israel Port Authority is managing the construction of the first phase of a major expansion of the port at a cost of NIS 4 billion (approximately US$1.1 billion). The plan involves the following:
Extensive reclamation of an area northeast of the mouth of the Kishon River which will enable the construction of a large new terminal to be named the "Bay Terminal" that will be capable of handling giant container ships carrying more than 15,000 TEUs each.
Extension of the main breakwater by 880 metres and construction of a new secondary breakwater.
A new fuels terminal, replacing the existing one which dates back to the 1940s.
Expansion of the existing chemicals terminal.
A dedicated freight railway terminal on the grounds of the new shipping terminal, as well as connecting the adjacent  Israel Shipyards facilities to the rail network.
The new container terminal was built by the Israeli construction firms Ashtrom and Shapir Marine & Civil Engineering and officially inaugurated on 1 September 2021. Shanghai International Port Group (SIPG) won an international tender to operate the new terminal for a period of 25 years on completion.

In its initial phase the Bay Terminal will be capable of handling 800,000 TEU container movements annually and planned future expansions to the terminal could handle up to an additional 700,000 TEU.

See also
Gilla Gerzon (Information on Haifa USO)

References

External links

Port of Haifa official website
Information for cruise passengers
Construction of the port – photographs

1933 establishments in Mandatory Palestine
Economy of Haifa
Geography of Haifa
Tourism in Haifa
Transport in Haifa
Haifa
Adani Group