[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kdam Eurovision

The Kdam Eurovision (Hebrew: קדם אירוויזיון, transliteration "Kdam-Erovizyon", translation "Pre-Eurovision") in short known as the Kdam (Hebrew: קדם, lit. "Pre") was the Israeli national preselection of the Eurovision Song Contest. The competition was first introduced in 1981 and ran until 2014.

History of the Israeli song selection

1960s
In the 1960s, particularly with the 1963 Eurovision Song Contest, Israeli singers were able to represent other European countries rather than their home country, as this was before there were television broadcasts in Israel. That year, Israel was represented by Esther Ofarim for Switzerland (with a song in French), and Carmela Corren for Austria. Regular television broadcasts in Israel began in May 1968.

1970s
In 1972, Ilanit and Shlomo Zach argued that the Israel Broadcasting Authority (IBA) was entitled to participate in the Eurovision Song Contest, since it was a member of the European Broadcasting Union (EBU). IBA agreed and asked that Ilanit represent Israel at the Eurovision Song Contest in Edinburgh in 1972. But the registration period had already closed for the 1972 competition, thus Israel's first participation was delayed by one year. In 1973, Ilanit won the bid to represent Israel in Luxembourg at that year's Eurovision Song Contest, becoming the first official Israeli entry to Eurovision. A committee of the IBA was in charge of selecting the song. Ehud Manor and Nurit Hirsh wrote the chosen song, "Ey Sham" in Hebrew, although in that year's contest, entrants did not have to sing in their national languages. Manor explained that they saw the importance of having that song represent Israel in Hebrew, but were concerned that the tone of the words not be jarring to the ears of European listeners. Ilanit placed fourth in the first-ever Israeli entry.

In later years, a selection committee continued to choose the acts to be sent on behalf of Israel, including the band Kaveret with "Natati La Khayay" (7th place),  Shlomo Artzi with "At Va'Ani" (11th place), and the trio Chocolat, Menta, Mastik with "Emor Shalom" (6th place). In 1977 Israel sent back Ilanit for a second time, with "Ahava Hi Shir Lishnayim" (11th place).

After the second Ilanit showing in 1977, the method of voting was changed. In the next two years 1978 and 1979, Israel's Eurovision entrants were the winners in the Israel Song Festival (in Hebrew פסטיבל הזמר והפזמון פסטיבל, Festival HaZemer VeHaPizmon). In both cases, the songs won the Eurovision title. The songs were "A-Ba-Ni-Bi" by Izhar Cohen in 1978 and "Hallelujah" by Milk and Honey in 1979.

1980s
After winning with "Hallelujah", Israel had the right to host the 25th Eurovision contest, but the Israeli budget was not large enough to host two consecutive contests (Ireland being the only country to successfully host more than one contest in a row). Instead the competition took place that year in The Hague, Netherlands, and was set to Yom Hazikaron, forcing Israel to cancel its participation, although a selection contest had been organized and a winning song called "Pizmon Chozer" (meaning "Refrain" in English) had been chosen and was going to be interpreted by Ha'achim ve ha'achayot (meaning Brothers and sisters in English).

In 1981, it was decided to change the main selection process competition for Israeli artists through competition under Kdam Eurovision (or pre-Eurovision). The first such competition was held on 3 March 1981.

The band Hakol Over Habibi won the competition in 1981, for 26th Eurovision Contest in Dublin with the song "Halayla". Among the prominent Kdam songs that competed were "Cinderella" by Sexta, "Hora" by Avi Toledano and "Estate I" by Yigal Bashan.

The 1984 Eurovision Song Contest in Luxembourg was again set on Yom Hazikaron Memorial Day and Israel canceled its participation yet again. Israel had already picked the song "Balalaika" by singer Ilanit for the year's competition but without conducting any pre-Eurovision contest.

Kdam Eurovision Song Contest returned for 1985, 1986 and 1987. Among the prominent artists in this period were Yardena Arazi, Avi Toledano, Ofra Haza, Svika Pick, Ilana Avital, Izhar Cohen, Doron Mazar, Trio established specifically for the competition, Yigal Bashan, Uzi Hitman and Yonatan Miller, and the ensemble Izolirband.

In 1988, IBA suspended the Kdam competition as a cost-cutting measure and decided to send Yardena Arazi to Eurovision  in light of the achievements of previous competitions. Yardena Arazi performed four songs with selected the song "Ben Adam". Kdam returned in 1989, with Gili & Galit with "Derekh Hamelekh" but in 1990 Rita (actually Rita Kleinstein) was selected without competition one more time.