[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# History of Dedham, Massachusetts, 1635–1699

n to build the first schoolhouse in 1648 for which he received a partial payment of £11.0.3 on December 2, 1650. The details in the contract require him to construct floorboards, doors, and "fitting the interior with 'featheredged and rabbited' boarding" similar to that found in the Fairbanks House.

The early residents of Dedham were so committed to education that they donated £4.6.6 to Harvard College during its first eight years of existence, a sum greater than many other towns, including Cambridge itself. By the later part of the century, however, a sentiment of anti-intellectualism had pervaded the town. Residents were content to allow the minister to be the local intellectual and did not establish a grammar school as required by law. As a result, the town was called into court in 1675 and then again in 1691.

Colonial politics
When King Charles II threatened to revoke the charter of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, Dedham went firmly on the record as opposing any such action. Town meeting requested that Governor Simon Bradstreet protect the rights and interests of the colonists. In a unanimous vote, they also rejected a motion to completely subjugate themselves to the king and accept his decision to revoke the charter.

Daniel Fisher and his sister Lydia helped to hide William Goffe and Edward Whalley after they sought asylum in American. During the 1689 Boston revolt, Fisher grabbed Governor Edmund Andros by the collar and placed him under arrest, both to protect him from a mob and to ensure that he stood trial.

A group of notable clergy from around the colony, including Dedham's John Allin, wrote a petition to the General Court in 1671 complaining that the lawmakers were contributing to anti-clerical sentiment. They asked for the General Court to endorse the authority of the clergy in spiritual matters, which by implication included the half-way covenant. The General Court complied but 15 members, including Joshua Fisher and Daniel Fisher, dissented.

Notes

References

Works cited

 

Colonial Massachusetts
Colonial settlements in North America
1636 establishments in the Massachusetts Bay Colony
Pre-statehood history of Massachusetts
People of colonial Massachusetts
17th century in the Massachusetts Bay Colony
17th century in the Province of Massachusetts Bay