[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Safwa people

y for rain or removal of diseases from the land. On many occasions, at least in case of rain, the rain would pour down even before the elders reached their residences. A good example of such sacred groves can presently be seen at Iganjo in Igawilo, approximately 15 kilometers from Mbeya city center.

However, in recent decades, there has been a significant change in the spirituality of the Safwas. Most of them have accepted other faiths such as Christianity and even Islam. About 22% of the Safwas adhere to different Christian denominations.  This is a very radical shift for a tribe that is proud of their culture and are basically conservatives. Some of the Christian denominations that have made significant inroads in this community, and therefore have big impacts in changing the worldview of the people, include: the Assemblies of God, Roman Catholics, Seventh-day Adventists, Jehovah's Witnesses, Moravians, etc. Perhaps this diversity of denominations found in Safwaland speaks more eloquently than any other factor when it comes to how open to new ways of spirituality this group of people has become. All these denominations have trained Safwa ministers some of whom take care of their own people and others serve the larger Christian community elsewhere in the country and beyond. Today in most villages, houses of worship of different shapes and sizes may be found. This would have been impossible just a few decades ago. The Safwa people are becoming more open to the gospel of Jesus Christ. However, a large number of them remain traditionalists, especially the older generation and the not-so old folks.

Fence
Close to the fence against enemies and wild animals, all villages had a shelter or lodge for the mature men of the village to sit together, and for travelers and older youths to eat and sleep.  Its maintenance was considered an obligation of the community.

Population concentration
Before the coming and domination of the Safwas had never before lived in concentrated settlements and hated them.  (Not even during the early 1850s, under the Ngoni reign of terror, did they live in crowded settlements).  It probably strengthened the Sangu, but increased the danger of famine for the Safwa and reduced their agricultural possibility.  Since the Germans returned the Wasangu to the territory of the Wahehe, the population of the Safwa, finally free of the Wasangu, has gone from 9,000 in 1910, 15,000 in the 1920s, and 63,000 in 1957. Just as the Nyika, the Wasafwa were avid communal hunters but only after being inoculated against witchcraft.  It was only after being inoculated that hunting songs and dances are performed by the people, who then waited eagerly in anticipation of the meat to be distributed on the successful return of the hunters.

Notable Safwans
Poets and Writers
 Christopher Mwashinga
 Castro D.Shazeha

References
 Arnold, Bernd; Steuer und Lohnarbeit im Süwesten von Deutsch-Ostafrika, 1891 bis 1816
 Bauer, Andreus; The Emperial Ruga-ruga Raise the Flag of War
 Iliffe, John; A Modern History of Tanganyika
 Kootz-Kretschmer; Die Safwa
 Willis, R.; Fipa and Related Peoples

External links
Linguistic lineage for Safwa

Ethnic groups in Tanzania
Indigenous peoples of East Africa