[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Israel Democracy Institute

s relating to constitutional issues in Israel, and sought to formulate the agreements and compromises that would be necessary to create a consensual constitution. The council's discussions formed the basis and inspiration for the Israel Democracy Institute's proposal for a constitution by consensus.

Leadership 
IDI is headed by former MK Yohanan Plesner. Its leadership includes two vice presidents of Research: Prof. Mordechai Kremnitzer, Professor Emeritus of International Law at Hebrew University, and Prof. Yedidia Stern, a professor of law at Bar-Ilan University and former dean of its law school. Senior Research Fellows of the institute include Admiral Ami (Amichay) Ayalon, Professors Hanoch Dagan, Momi Dahan, Yuval Feldman, Tamar Hermann, Shahar Lifshitz, Yotam Margalit, Gideon Rahat, Eli Shaltiel, and Yuval Shany, and Doron H. Cohen. Past Senior Fellows include Prof. Avi Ben Bassat, Prof. Ruth Gavison, Adv. Dan Meridor, Prof. David Nachmias, Prof. Eyal Naveh, Prof. Aviezer Ravitzky, and Prof. Anita Shapira. The late Prof. Asher Arian headed the institute's program on political reform and directed its Guttman Center for Applied Social Research. In 2013, Dan Landau replaced Rabbi Itshak Levi as head of IDI's Policy Implementation division. Former U.S. Secretary of State George P. Shultz serves as the chairman of the institute's international advisory council. Amir Elstein is the chairman of the board. Rabbi Dr. Benjamin (Benny) Lau heads the institute's Human Rights and Judaism in Action project, which has published several contemporary responsa on people with disabilities and Jewish law.

In 2018, Yuval Shany was vice president for research.

Publications department 
The Israel Democracy Institute's publications department publishes books and policy studies written by the institute's research fellows, as well as proceedings of the conferences and study days organized by the institute. These publications aim to enrich Israeli public discourse about the issues of most importance for Israeli democracy. It also formerly published the online journal HaAyin HaShevi'it ("The 7th eye").

Published policy studies and books 
 From Victimhood to Sovereignty—An Analysis of the Victimization Discourse in Israel
 Religious? National!—The National-Religious Sector in Israel
 The Annual Statistical Report on Ultra-Orthodox Society in Israel
 Two Economies, One Society—A Publication of the Eli Hurvitz Conference on Economy and Society
 Theodore Herzl's Liberal Philosophy—How to Improve the Work of the Knesset
 NEET Among Young Arabs in Israel 
 A Master Plan for Ultra-Orthodox Employment in Israel
 The 2015 Israeli Elections
 The Arab Minority in Israel and the "Jewish State" Discourse
 Censorship and State Secrets in the Digital Age

Awards and recognition
In 2009, IDI was awarded the Israel Prize for its "lifetime achievement and special contribution to society and the State of Israel.

In the University of Pennsylvania's 2014 Global Go To Think Tanks Report, IDI was ranked the twenty-third best think tank in the Middle East and North Africa.

Budget 
The Israel Democracy Institute is funded by charitable donations, which totaled $8,989,254 in 2017. The institute's main funder is the Jewish-American billionaire Bernard Marcus.

The institute's budget is published yearly in its annual report.

See also
 List of Israel Prize recipients

References

External sources
 Official website
 Israel Democracy Institute Press Room
 

Civil rights organizations
Civil liberties advocacy groups
Israel Prize for lifetime achievement & special contribution to society recipients
Israel Prize recipients that are organizations
Liberalism in Israel
Non-profit organizations based in Israel
Organizations based in Jerusalem
Political and economic think tanks based in Israel
Think tanks established in 1991
Think tanks based in Israel
1991 establishments in Israel