[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Teng Bunma

In 1996, he was named in the United States campaign finance controversy during which the Chinese allegedly attempted to influence domestic American politics prior to and during the Clinton administration. Though he was blocked from entering the United States, Teng Bunma received a US visa in 1998.

In 1999, King Norodom Sihanouk publicly refused a luxury car that Teng Bunma had offered him, on the grounds that he was being investigated by the United States of America. However, Hun Sen himself intervened to award diplomatic immunity to Teng Bunma for falsifying immigration documents, which was considered  abusing ambassadorial powers to evade the law by some human rights group.

The godfather of the Cambodian booming economy (2000-2016) 
At the beginning of the third millennium, Teng Bunma had become "one of the most powerful men in Cambodia", "Cambodia's best-known and wealthiest businessman with total assets estimated at around $400 million." At that time, he began investing in major construction projects worth more 50 millions dollars and to diversify his portfolio with a wider range of activities, such as growing cotton. He took an important role of leadership in the business community to the point of becoming a "kingmaker". In 2000, Guo Dongpo, who was the director of the Overseas Chinese Affairs Office office in Beijing, met Teng Bunma to ask for his assistance in controlling unruly mainland gang activity in the Cambodia, as the latter had become "legendary" among the Chinese Khmer community.

Later years and death 
Teng Bunma passed away at the age of 75 on June 17, 2016 at 12.45pm in a hospital in Phnom Penh by natural causes, leaving the 133 story Thai Boon Roong Twin Tower World Trade Center in Phnom Penh, located next to Nagaworld, unfinished.

Legacy

A real estate empire 
Teng Bunma left being him one of the largest real estate empires in Cambodia. He owned the luxury Intercontinental hotel in Phnom Penh and Rasmei Kampuchea, the country's most influential newspaper. His son's company, in partnership with foreign investors, owns the Caesar international casino in Pailin, a mining town in western Cambodia.

Cambodian Chamber of Commerce 
Teng Bunma was elected as the first president of Cambodia's Chamber of Commerce in 1995, a useful position for networking in a country where wealth is concentrated in the hands of a small group of closely connected politicians, military officials and businessmen.

The forefather of Hun Sen's elite pack 

In a 2015 paper, Teng Bunma was described as the prototype of the new Khmer oknha by Michiel Verver and Heidi Schnetzinger who explained the “elite pact” between the business and political elites through the oknha system of Cambodia.

Character 
Teng Bunma has been described as "trigger-happy tycoon" following incidents where he used or brandished hand guns. In the first incident he shot out a $3000 tire of an airplane on the tarmac after complaining that he was frustrated with the airline's service. "I lost my temper and control and had to shoot one of the plane's tires. I wanted to shoot more of them, to make sure that all were flat, but there were a lot of passengers surrounding the plane.". In the second incident he brandished a gun inside an airplane and demanded the crew delay takeoff until his late friends arrived.

Awards and recognition 
Teng Bunma received an honorary degree from Iowa Wesleyan University at the request of his business partner, Ted Sioeng.

References

Cambodian people of Chinese descent
Cambodian people of Thai descent
Cambodian drug traffickers
1941 births
2016 deaths
Oknha