[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1992 Montenegrin independence referendum

ident Momir Bulatović envisaged a confederal model with the common state possessing a single market, single currency, unitary monetary policy, a common foreign policy, albeit one that would permit separate consular representations, and a joint defense system that would allow some degree of autonomy.

The proposed principle of parity that Bulatović advocated was incrementally eroded in the aftermath of subsequent meetings between Bulatović and Serbian President Slobodan Milošević. The Serbian political elite was consistently opposed to the idea of the equal status of Montenegro within the federation. Due to its influence over the ruling elite in Montenegro, its position ultimately prevailed.

The Montenegrin ruling elite, wishing to facilitate the rapid acceptance of the new state, adopted the Law on Referendum, limiting public debate to a period of only seven days. The Montenegrin opposition argued against the undemocratic character of the referendum, staging demonstrations in Montenegrin towns and cities and attempting to persuade voters that there were alternatives to a close federation with Serbia. Throughout Montenegro, the ruling Democratic Party of Socialists campaigned under the slogan "Yugoslavia without alternative", and simultaneously worked towards limiting the scope for public debate, disrupting the activities of the opposition and implicitly threatening individuals with the potential loss of their livelihoods.

The referendum was boycotted by opposition parties such as the Liberal Alliance of Montenegro, the Social Democratic and Socialist Parties, as well as minority parties such as the Democratic League in Montenegro, leading to a relatively low turnout of 66%.

Blocs

Federation 
 Democratic Party of Socialists (DPS)
Support:
 People's Party of Montenegro (NS)
 Serbian Radical Party in Montenegro (SRS)

Independence (boycott) 
 Liberal Alliance of Montenegro (LSCG)
 Democratic League in Montenegro (DSCG)
Support:
 Social Democratic Party of Montenegro (SDP)

Results

Total
Registered Voters: 421,549

Total: 278,382 (66.04%)
Yes votes: 266,273 (95.96%)
No votes: 8,755 (3.14%)

By municipality
Source: Centre for Monitoring

Aftermath 
A new constitution forming the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia came into effect on 27 April 1992. The Montenegrin opposition would refer to the new constitution scornfully as the "Žabljak Constitution" after the mountain resort in Montenegro where the two leaderships had met to create the new state. Its core argument was that the FRY was an unequal construction that would simply become dysfunctional, due to the fact that it was made up of two federal units of disproportionate size, population, and economic interests. Such a situation prompted even those within the ruling DPS, such as the then Montenegrin Foreign Minister Miodrag Lekić, to argue that within the FRY structure Montenegrin interests were insufficiently protected.

Angered by Momir Bulatović's intention to agree to Lord Carrington's plan in October 1991, as well as his request that a special session of the Montenegrin Assembly should be called to discuss the possibility of another referendum, the ruling Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS) supported Bulatović's opponent in the 1992 presidential election, Branko Kostić. During the election campaign, Bulatović sought to continue to strike a balance between Montenegro’s political poles of unionism and nationalism, arguing in favor of Montenegrin autonomy and equality with Serbia within the FRY framework. Kostić presented himself as a "Greater Serb", aligning himself directly with Slobodan Milošević and the policy of the SPS. The DPS triumphed in the concurrent parliamentary election, and Milo Đukanović continued to serve as Prime Minister of Montenegro, eventually straying further still from the policies advocated by the Serbian leadership.

See also 
 Breakup of Yugoslavia
 2006 independence referendum

References

Sources

External links 
 Montenegro (Jugoslawien), 1. März 1992 : Verbleib im jugoslawischen Staatsverband at Database and Search Engine for Direct Democracy

1992 in international relations 
1992 in Montenegro 
1992 referendums
Independence referendums
March 1992 events in Europe
Montenegro–Serbia relations
Politics of Montenegro
Referendums in Montenegro
Referendums in Yugoslavia