[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Delta Phi Epsilon (professional)

Another movement to make the fraternity coed emerged in the late 1960s. During the 1972 National Convention, members voted to amend the bylaws to admit female members. However, the amendment ultimately failed because the members did not approve it a second time at either of the next two conventions.

In June 1972, the Alpha chapter at Georgetown changed to include both a fraternity and a sorority of the Delta Phi Epsilon Professional Foreign Service. The two groups operated separately when it came to recruiting and initiating members. However, the two groups worked together for professional and social programs.

The Alpha chapter of the sorority held its first initiation on February 24, 1973. A second chapter of the sorority, Epsilon chapter, was founded at UC Berkeley in 2003.

In January 2021, the American University chapter withdrew from the national organization, saying that the national board "was unrepresentative of its values." The group continued as the local organization Sisterhood for International Engagement.

Co-educational 
In 2016, the fraternity's National Convention endorsed a proposal for joint fraternity-sorority projects, including publishing a peer-reviewed Delta Phi Epsilon Journal of Foreign Affairs, operating a scholarship competition for students who had been initiated into Delta Phi Epsilon, and holding an annual symposium promoting alumni and student international relations research. This project developed into the Delta Phi Epsilon Foreign Affairs Council, incorporated and recognized as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit educational organization in 2016. The council originally selected its leaders from Delta Phi Epsilon members to support international relations education, promote public engagement in foreign policy, and provide career development tools to Delta Phi Epsilon brothers and sisters.

In 2016, the first co-ed chapter, Delta chapter, was founded at USC by Jacob Lokshin and eleven other USC students. The Gamma chapter also merged the sorority and fraternity into a single co-ed chapter in 2016. However, some of the national fraternity's leadership continue to oppose the admission of women.

Scandals 
In July 2018, The Chronicle of Higher Education published several accounts of student and alumni fraternity members, accusing Terrence Boyle of sexism and bigotry. Boyle has served as the fraternity's general secretary for nearly 40 years, controlled the alumni newsletter, and oversaw pledge recruitment for the Alpha chapter. Charges included making the sorority members clean the bedrooms and wash the socks of the fraternity members. In addition, no females had held national leadership positions. In the article and in a petition shortly following it, leaders from most fraternity chapters, along with many non-DPE Fraternity members, called for Boyle's resignation. In August 2018, the Alpha chapter officers resigned and closed the chapter's activities after Georgetown University's student newspaper, The Hoya, published an opinion piece authored by presidents of Eta, Chi, and Pi chapters calling for Georgetown students to boycott Alpha chapter. Boyle appointed new student leadership for the Alpha chapter from outside of Georgetown; however, several of the fraternity's other chapters indicated that they would not recognize this new leadership.

In 2021, the District of Columbia Attorney General, Karl Racine, filed a case against the foundation and the Delta Phi Epsilon corporation. The complaint alleged that funds belonging to the foundation were used by Boyle, to buy a house on 34th Street NW in 1990. In addition, Boyle sold the fraternity's chapter house for $2.6 million when it was appraised for $4 million. Racine's complaint indicated that Boyle oversaw the transfer of the chapter house from the fraternity to the foundation where he withheld information about the value of the property. In addition, Boyle essentially stopped the foundation's obligatory issuance of scholarships for 37 years. In April 2022, the Office of the Attorney General filed a motion for summary judgment in the case.

Chapter house 
The fraternity purchased the former Seymour House in Georgetown as a chapter house for $27,500 in 1940. Constructed in 1869 by merchant William E. Seymour, 3401 Prospect Street Northwest was home to the Alpha Chapter until 2020. The three-story brick chapter house had fifteen rooms. It is a contributing property to the Georgetown Historic District and became a National Historic Landmark listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1967. For decades, the Alpha Chapter of Delta Phi Epsilon was the only fraternal organization at Georgetown University with its own house. It was used for keg parties and social events.