[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Djiboutian Civil War

The Djiboutian Civil War (also known as the First Afar insurgency) was a conflict in Djibouti, lasting from 1991 to 1994 and resulting in thousands of fatalities. The uneven power sharing between the Issas and the Afars led to the Civil War that ravaged the country for three years.

Background
On 11 March 1862, the French Government made an agreement with the Afar Sultan Raieta Dini Ahmet. Ahmet sold his territory of Obock for 10,000 thalers, around F55,000. This was the start of the French colonisation era in the region, the treaty was used by a captain of the Fleuriot de Langle, to colonise the south part of the Tadjoura Gulf.

Since at least French rule, first as French Somaliland and then as French Territory of the Afars and the Issas, there have been ethnic tensions in Djibouti between the Issas, and the Afars. Following independence in 1977, the Issas-dominated People's Rally for Progress party had ruled Djibouti, and since 1981, had ruled it as a one-party state with the People's Rally for Progress the only authorized party.  Many Afar felt marginalized.

At the same time, in 1991, neighboring countries' authoritarian governments were overthrown, Siad Barre in Somalia and Mengistu Haile Mariam in Ethiopia. Eritrea and Somaliland also became independent from the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia and the Somali Democratic Republic respectively in 1991.

At the end of the 1980s, groups such as the Popular Liberation Movement, organized attacks against the government. In 1991, several opposition movements were created: the Djibouti Patriotic Resistance Front (FRDP), the Alliance of Forces for Democracy (AFD) and the Action for a Review of Order in Djibouti (Arod). In mid-1991, several of them regrouped in a new organization: the Front for the Restoration of Unity and Democracy (FRUD).

Outbreak
In May 1991, thousands of Ethiopian soldiers fled into Djiboutian territory after the Derg (the former Ethiopian Government) was overthrown. Framed by French and Djiboutian troops, they were repatriated back to Ethiopia, but left many weapons behind. At the beginning of October 1991, the rebel organisation Front for the Restoration of Unity and Democracy (FRUD), calling for greater political participation of Afar, launched a guerrilla struggle against the government. 

There were clashes between government forces and FRUD rebels in the Dikhil region of western Djibouti on October, from the first days of the outbreak of hostilities, specifically on the night of the 15–16 November 1991, the Djiboutian army captured some 232 individuals in the Obock Region. These were mainly the Afars of Eritrea and the militia of the former Derg regime. 

To wash away the affront, the FRUD launched, on the 21 November 1991, an assault of the town of Obock and its garrison, but after a long day of fierce fighting the Djiboutian soldiers crushed them. Subsequently, several other battles will confront the national army and the FRUD militia, which caused heavy casualties on both sides. The FRUD seized all military posts in the north of the country and laid siege to the city of Tadjoura and Obock. 

Government troops and FRUD fighters clashed near Tadjoura on the 3-4 January 1992, resulting in the deaths of some 150 rebels and three soldiers and government troops and FRUD rebels. In the Gagade, Kharab, and Bekaneb districts on 17–18 January 1992, clashes resulted with the deaths of some 150 rebels and 16 soldiers. 

Throughout the war, the fighting was mainly in the north of the country with the exception of the incident in the capital, when on 18 December 1991 government troops entered the area Arhiba inhabited by the Afar, and opened fire on crowds of people. At the same time killed at least 59 people, provoking mass resignations of the Afar deputies of the national assembly in protest and disputes within the RPP itself. In February 1992, some French troops were deployed in the north to aid the government forces. With about 3,000 fighters FRUD attacked a government institutions in Dikhil but was repelled back. 

France attempted to mediate between the government and the rebels, but all attempts to organise such talks (from November 1992 to May 1993) failed. The government responded by increasing its armed forces from about 5,000 to 20,000 men and called up its reserves, and received support from France in the form of some military equipment.