[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 147]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

midst of
feasts, and balls, and puppet-shows, and calmly devoting thousands of
their fellow-creatures to perish by famine or the sword, while they
considered the loss of a dinner, or the endurance of a shower, as an
exertion too great for human fortitude.

"I soon embarked, and arrived, without any other accident than a
horrible sickness, at the place of our destination in America. Here I
joined my gallant officer, Colonel Simmons, who had performed the voyage
in another ship."--(Miss Simmons, who was present at this narration,
seemed to be much interested at this mention of her own name; she,
however, did not express her feelings, and the stranger proceeded with
his story.)--"The gentleman was, with justice, the most beloved, and the
most deserving to be so, of any officer I have ever known. Inflexible in
everything that concerned the honour of the service, he never pardoned
wilful misbehaviour, because he knew that it was incompatible with
military discipline; yet, when obliged to punish, he did it with such
reluctance that he seemed to suffer almost as much as the criminal
himself. But, if his reason imposed this just and necessary severity,
his heart had taught him another lesson in respect to private distresses
of his men; he visited them in their sickness, relieved their miseries,
and was a niggard of nothing but human blood. But I ought to correct
myself in that expression, for he was rashly lavish of his own, and to
that we owe his untimely loss.

"I had not been long in America before the colonel, who was perfectly
acquainted with the language and manners of the savage tribes that
border upon the British colonies, was sent on an embassy to one of their
nations, for the purpose of soliciting their alliance with Britain. It
may not, perhaps, be uninteresting to you, gentlemen, and to this my
honourable little master, to hear some account of a people whose manners
and customs are so much the reverse of what you see at home. As my
worthy officer, therefore, contented with my assiduity and improvement
in military knowledge, permitted me to have the honour of attending him,
I will describe some of the most curious facts which I was witness to.

"You have, doubtless, heard many accounts of the surprising increase of
the English colonies in America; and when we reflect that it is scarcely
a hundred years since some of them were established, it must be
confessed that they have made rapid improvements in clearing the ground
of woods and bringing it to cultivation. Yet, much as they have already
done, the country is yet an immense forest, except immediately on the
coasts. The forests extend on every side to a distance that no human
sagacity or observation has been able to determine; they abound in every
species of tree which you see in England, to which may be added a great
variety more which are unknown with us. Under their shade is generally
found a rich luxurious herbage, which serves for pasture to a thousand
herds of animals. Here are seen elks (a kind of deer of the largest
size), and buffaloes (a species of wild ox), by thousands, and even
horses, which, having been originally brought over by the Spaniards,
have escaped from their settlements and multiplied in the woods."

"Dear!" said Tommy, "that must be a fine country, indeed, where horses
run wild; why, a man might have one for nothing." "And yet," said Mr
Merton, "it would be but of little use for a person to have a wild
horse, who is not able to manage a tame one."

Tommy made no answer to his father; and the man proceeded. "But the
greatest curiosity of all this country is, in my opinion, the various
tribes or nations which inhabit it. Bred up from their infancy to a life
of equal hardiness with the wild animals, they are almost as robust in
their constitutions. These various tribes inhabit little villages,
which generally are seated upon the banks of rivers; and, though they
cultivate small portions of land around their towns, they seek the
greater part of their subsistence from the chase. In their persons they
are rather tall and slender, but admirably well-proportioned and active,
and their colour is a pale red, exactly resembling copper. Thus
accustomed to roam about the woods, and brave the inclemencies of the
weather, as well as continually exposed to the attacks of their enemies
they acquire a degree of courage and fortitude which can scarcely be
conceived. It is nothing to them to pass whole days without food; to be
whole nights upon the bare damp ground, and to swim the widest rivers in
the depth of winter. Money, indeed, and the greatest part of what we
call the conveniences of life, they are unacquainted with; nor can they
conceive that one man should serve another merely because he has a few
pieces of shining metal; they imagine that the only distinctions arise
from superior courage and bodily perfections, and therefore these alone
are able to engage their