[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gelson Fernandes

ng Clube de Portugal
Ahead of the 2012–13 season, Fernandes once again not featured for the Saint-Étienne's pre-season training, putting his future at the club in doubt. It was announced on 4 July 2012 he signed a four-year contract with Sporting Clube de Portugal, with a €25 million buy-out clause.

Fernandes made his debut for the club, starting the whole game, in a 0–0 draw against Vitória de Guimarães in the opening game of the season. He then helped Sporting Lisbon beat AC Horsens in the second round of the UEFA Europa League Play–Off Round, in a 5–0 win. However, his first team opportunities was limited, having been placed on the substitute bench and was restricted to twelve appearances in all competitions for the club. After his loan spell at Sion ended, Fernandes was among with many players to be sold.

FC Sion (loan)
On 21 December 2012, it was confirmed that he returned to Sion, signing a loan until the end of the 2012–13 season with an option to sign him at the end of the loan.

Fernandes made his debut for the club, starting the match and played 81 minutes before being substituted, in a 3–0 win against SC Kriens on 3 February 2013. Since joining FC Sion, he quickly became the club's first team regular for the rest of the season.  However, towards the end of the season, Fernandes faced restrictions, as he faced suspension on two occasions and suffered an injury that will keep him out for the remainder of the 2012–13 season. At the end of the 2012–13 season, Fernandes made sixteen appearances in all competitions. Following this, his options to join FC Sion permanently has ended after the club have to pay the price to sign Fernandes.

SC Freiburg

It was announced on 27 June 2013 that Fernandes signed with Bundesliga side SC Freiburg on long-term contract, with a fee of €400,000.

He made his league debut in the opening game of the season, as SC Freiburg lost 3–1 against Bayer Leverkusen. This was followed up by setting up the club's only goal of the game, losing 2–1 against Mainz 05. Since joining SC Freiburg, Fernandes became a first team regular, playing as a defensive midfielder. His first goal came on 23 November 2013, in a 1–0 victory over Eintracht Braunschweig. After the match, he said: "I am totally happy for the young team. These were three very important points, but we have only eleven, that's not much." As the season progressed, Fernandes continued to remain in the starting eleven despite being placed on the substitute bench on five occasions. At the end of the 2013–14 season, he went on to make thirty–eight appearances and scoring once in all competitions. Following this, it was announced that Fernandes would leave Freiburg despite still having contract until 2016 ahead of the 2014–15 season.

Stade Rennais
It was announced on 4 August 2014 that Fernandes signed a four-year contract until 2018 with French Stade Rennais, as Freiburg received a transfer fee believed to be €1.6 million, which still can be increased by additional performance-related payments. Upon joining the club, he was given a number six shirt.

Fernandes made his Stade Rennais debut in the opening game of the season against Lyon, coming on as a 63rd-minute substitute, in a 2–0 loss. Since joining the club, he quickly established himself in the first team, playing in the defensive midfield position. This lasted until Fernandes suffered a hamstring injury that saw him sidelined for a month. It wasn't until on 10 January 2015 when he returned to the first team, starting the whole game, in a 1–1 draw against Evian. Following this, Fernandes continued to regain his first team place for the rest of the 2014–15 season. In his first season at Stade Rennais, he went on to make thirty–six appearances in all competitions.