[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Freedom of movement for workers in the European Union

efinition of "worker"
The meaning of 'worker' is a matter of European Union law. "The essential feature of an employment relationship, however, is that for a certain period of time a person performs services for and under the direction of another person in return for which he receives remuneration."

Purpose: under the European Court of Justice caselaw, the rights of free movement of workers applies regardless of the worker's purpose in taking up employment abroad, so long as the work is not solely provided as a means of rehabilitation or reintegration of the workers concerned into society.
Time commitment: the right of free movement applies to both part-time and full-time work, so long as the work is effective and genuine and not of such small scale, irregular nature or limited duration to be purely marginal and ancillary.
Remuneration: a wage is a necessary precondition for activity to constitute work, but the amount is not important. The right to free movement applies whether or not the worker required additional financial assistance from the Member State into which he moves. Remuneration may be indirect quid pro quo (e.g. board and lodging) rather than strict consideration for work.
Direction of another: where a person is self-employed, he can avail himself of the freedom to provide services and freedom of establishment.

Extent of the right
The right to free movement applies where the legal relationship of employment is entered into in or shall take effect within the territory of the European Community. The precise legal scope of the right to free movement for workers has been shaped by the European Court of Justice and by directives and regulations. Underlying these developments is a tension "between the image of the Community worker as a mobile unit of production, contributing to the creation of a single market and to the economic prosperity of Europe" and the "image of the worker as a human being, exercising a personal right to live in another country and to take up employment there without discrimination, to improve the standard of living of his or her family".

Discrimination and market access
Groener v Minister for Education, 
Keck and Mithouard, ,

Public service exception
 Commission v Belgium [1980] ECR 3881
 Sotigiu v Deutsche Bundespost [1974] ECR 153

Directives and regulations

 Royer [1976] ECR 497
 Watson and Belmann [1976] ECR 1185
 Antonissen [1991] ECR I-745
 repealed and replaced by 
 Ministere Public v Even and ONPTS [1979] ECR 2019
 Diatta v Land Berlin [1985] ECR 567
 R (Secretary of State for the Home Department) v Immigration Appeal Tribunal and Surinder Singh [1991] ECR I-4265

Social rights

 Gravier v City of Liege [1985] ECR 593
 Maria Martinez Sala v Freistaat Bayern [1998] ECR I-2691
 Rudy Grzelczyk v Centre Public d'Aide Sociale d'Ottignes-Louvain-la-Neuve (CPAS) [2001] ECR I-6193

Transitional provisions in new member states
In the Treaty of Accession 2003, the Treaty of Accession 2005, and the Treaty of Accession 2011, there is a clause about a transition period before workers from the new member states can be employed on an equal, non-discriminatory terms in the old member states. The old member states have the right to impose such transitional period for 2 years, then to decide to extend it for additional 3 years, and then, if there is serious proof that labour from new member states would be disruptive to the market in the old member states then the period can be extended for the last time for 2 more years.

According to the principle of reciprocity, new member states have the right to impose restrictions for all the countries that introduced restrictions and transitional periods to their citizens. Croatia has decided to apply this rule.

Withdrawal from the European Union 
The United Kingdom formally left the EU on 31 January 2020, following on a public vote held in June 2016. However a transition period to give time to negotiate a trade deal between the UK and the EU was in place in the interim. The EU–UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement (TCA) was concluded on 24 December 2020.

On 1 January 2021 free movement of persons between the parties ended as it is not incorporated in the TCA or the Brexit withdrawal agreement.

Freedom of movement in the European Economic Area
The citizens of the member states of the European Economic Area (which includes the EU) have the same right of freedom of movement in the EEA as EU citizens do within the Union. Additionally, the European Union, its member states, and Switzerland have concluded a multilateral agreement with the same meaning. The EEA member states outside the EU (Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein) and Switzerland are treated as "old member states" in regard to the Treaty of Accession of the new EU members, so they can impose such 2+3+2 transitional periods.