[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Copernicus Programme

infrastructure, transport and mobility, as well as tourism".

Copernicus is the European Union's contribution to the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) thus delivering geospatial information globally.

Some Copernicus services make use of OpenStreetMap data in their maps production.

Other relevant initiatives 
Other initiatives will also facilitate the development and functioning of Copernicus services:
 INSPIRE: this initiative aims at building a European spatial data infrastructure beyond national boundaries.
 Urban Atlas: Compiled from thousands of satellite photographs, the Urban Atlas provides detailed and cost-effective digital mapping, ensuring that city planners have the most up-to-date and accurate data available on land use and land cover. The Urban Atlas will enable urban planners to better assess risks and opportunities, ranging from the threat of flooding and the impact of climate change, to identifying new infrastructure and public transport needs. All cities in the EU will be covered by the Urban Atlas by 2011.
 SEIS: The Shared Environmental Information System (SEIS) is a collaborative initiative of the European Commission and the European Environment Agency (EEA) to establish together with the Member States an integrated and shared EU-wide environmental information system.
 Heterogeneous Missions Accessibility, the European Space Agency initiative for interoperability of Earth observation satellite payload data ground segments.
Copernicus is one of three related initiatives that are the subject of the GIGAS (GEOSS, INSPIRE and GMES an Action in Support) harmonization and analysis project  under the auspices of the EU 7th Framework Programme.

Third country participation 
In addition to the 27 Member States of the European Union, the Copernicus programme allows for the participation at various scope for third country participation. This participation is conducted through agreements with the European Union. One has to distinguish those countries that contribute to the budget and those that agree on exchanging data with the program. Many international partner countries get special access to Sentinel data in exchange for sharing in-situ data from their country. These states are:

2014–2020 budget contributing countries
 
 
 

Data exchange
  (from 2015)
 
 
 
 
  (from 2018)
  (from 2018)
  (from 2018)
  (from 2018)
   (from 2022)
   (from 2022)
   (from 2023)
Discussions ongoing with:
Argentina, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, China (part of Space Dialogue)

2021–2027 budget contributing countries
 
 

Enlargement
 : Britain will rejoin the programme in 2024.

See also 

 CNES
 Copernicus Sentinel Satellite Imagery
 European Space Technology Platform
 French space program
 Mission Science Division

References

External links 

 Copernicus Programme website
 European Commission's Copernicus web site
 ESA Copernicus web site
 Copernicus reference documents
 GNU (GMES Network of Users)
 GEO (Group on Earth Observation)
 SEIS (Shared Environmental Information System)
 Article upon the 1st GMES Masters
 GISC Website
 A video presenting the Copernicus programme is available on the Copernicus.eu website (Video presenting the Copernicus Programme)

 
European Space Agency programmes
Space policy of the European Union
Remote sensing programs