[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Arabs

s of Semitic peoples are thought to include various regions Mesopotamia, the Levant, the Arabian Peninsula, and North Africa. Some view that Semitic may have originated in the Levant around 3800 BCE and subsequently spread to the Horn of Africa around 800 BCE from Arabia, as well as to North Africa.

According to Arab-Islamic-Jewish traditions, Ishmael son of Abraham was "father of the Arabs", to be the ancestor of the Arabs. That Abraham be the ancestor of the Arabs and Israelites. Shem's descendants: Genesis chapter 10 verses 21–30 gives one list of descendants of Shem. In chapter 11 verses 10–26 a second list of descendants of Shem names Abraham and thus the Arabs and Israelites. Genetic research has indicated that Arabs and Jews share common genetic ancestry and are closely related. Additionally, it is common for Arabs and Jews to refer to each other as "cousins". The Book of Genesis narrates that God promised Hagar to beget from Ishmael twelve princes and turn him to a "great nation". Ya'rub is the grandson of Abir being the son of Qahtan/Joktan is an ancestor of the Ishmaelites and the Israelites according to the "Table of Nations" in the Book of Genesis () and the Books of Chronicles (). Qahtan/Joktan mentioned in the Hebrew Bible, he descends from Shem, son of Noah. Joktan's sons in the order provided in , were Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, Obal, Abimael, Sheba, Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. Keturah was a wife of Abraham, according to the Book of Genesis, Abraham married Keturah after the death of his first wife, Sarah. Abraham and Keturah had six sons: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. Genesis and First Chronicles also list seven of her grandsons (Sheba, Dedan, Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah). Keturah's sons were to have represented the Arab tribes who lived south and east of Palestine ().

Ishmael was considered the ancestor of Muhammad the founder of Islam, was linked to him through the lineage of the patriarch Adnan. Ishmael also has been claimed as the ancestor of the Southern Arabs through his descendant Qahtan. "Zayd ibn Amr" was another Pre-Islamic figure who refused idolatry and preached monotheism, claiming it was the original belief of their [Arabs] father Ishmael. The tribes of Central West Arabia called themselves the "people of Abraham and the offspring of Ishmael." Ibn Khaldun an Arab scholar in the 8th century described the Arabs were divided into two groups: ‘Adnan and Qahtan, both of which were attributed to Ishmaelite origins. He provided a definition of who the Arabs were, stating that they were a large nation occupying territories from the Atlantic Ocean (Maghreb) in the West (Mashriq) to Yemen and the Indian border in the East. According to him, most Arabs descending from the Qudā‘a, Qahtan, and ‘Adnan tribes (Ishmaelite).

The Hebrew Bible occasionally refers to Aravi peoples (or variants thereof), translated as "Arab". The scope of the term at that early stage is unclear, but it seems to have referred to various desert-dwelling Semitic tribes in the Levant and Arabia. And the Book of Jubilees claims that the sons of Ishmael intermingled with the 6 sons of Keturah, from Abraham, and their descendants were called Arabs and Ishmaelites: "And Ishmael and his sons, and the sons of Keturah and their sons, went together and dwelt from Paran to the entering in of Babylon in all the land towards the East facing the desert. And these mingled with each other, and their name was called Arabs, and Ishmaelites".