[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Catholic Church in Israel

re of Opus Dei

Medical and social services
There are:
 9 charitable and humanitarian organizations
 7 hospitals
 7 centers for the disabled
 6 orphanages
 5 homes for the elderly

Military and hospitaller orders
 Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem
 Sovereign Military Order of Malta

Universities and educational institutes
 Studium Theologicum Jerosolymitanum, Franciscan Custody of the Holy Land, founded 1866.
 École Biblique, Dominicans, founded 1920. 
 Studium Biblicum Franciscanum, Pontifical University Antonianum, Franciscans, founded 1924.
 College of Ancient Near East Studies of the Pontifical Biblical Institute, Jesuits, founded 1927.
 Latin Patriarchal Seminary of Jerusalem, Latin Patriarchate of Jerusalem, founded 1936.
 Casa de Santiago - Instituto Español Bíblico y Arqueológico, Spanish Bishops' Conference and Pontifical University of Salamanca, founded 1955.
 Tantur Ecumenical Institute, University of Notre Dame, founded 1972.
 Bethlehem University, De La Salle Brothers, founded 1973.
 German Institute of Biblical and Theological Studies, Dormition Abbey, Benedictines, founded 1973.
 Bat Kol Institute, Sisters of Sion, founded 1983
 Center for Biblical Formation, Ecce Homo, Sisters of Sion, founded 1984
 Institut Albert Decourtray for Studies in Judaism and Hebrew Literature, École cathédrale de Paris, founded 1991
 Studium Theologicum Galilaeae "Redemptoris Mater", Neocatechumenal Way, founded 2009.
 Polis Institute of Languages and Humanities, Pontifical University of the Holy Cross, Opus Dei, founded 2011.
 Studium Theologicum Salesianum, Salesian Pontifical University, Salesians of Don Bosco, founded 2011.

There are, additionally, 71 primary and secondary schools

Pilgrimage

Pilgrimage services
 Christian Information Centre, founded 1973.
 Episcopal Commission for Christian Pilgrimages
 Franciscan Pilgrim's Office, founded 2009.
 Latin Patriarchate Pilgrimages

Shrines and holy sites
 Church of the Resurrection, Jerusalem - Franciscans share custody of Christianity's holiest site along with the Greek Orthodox, Armenian Apostolic, Coptic Orthodox, Ethiopian Orthodox, and Syriac Orthodox Churches.
 Bethphage, Jerusalem, Franciscans
 Cenacle, Jerusalem, Franciscans
 Dominus Flevit, Jerusalem, Franciscans
 Dormition Abbey, Jerusalem, Benedictines
 Flagellation Church, Jerusalem, Franciscans
 Garden of Gethsemane, Jerusalem, Franciscans
 Pater Noster Church, Jerusalem, Carmelite Nuns
 St. Anne Church, Jerusalem, Missionaries of Africa
 St. Peter in Gallicantu, Jerusalem, Assumptionists
 St. Stephen Church, Jerusalem, Dominicans
 Via Dolorosa 3rd Station, Jerusalem, Armenian Catholics
 Via Dolorosa 4th Station, Jerusalem, Armenian Catholics
 Via Dolorosa 5th Station, Jerusalem, Franciscans
 Via Dolorosa 6th Station, Jerusalem, Little Sisters of Jesus
 Via Dolorosa 7th Station, Jerusalem, Franciscans
 Emmaus of the Crusaders, Abu Gosh, Benedictines
 Shepherd's Field, Beit Sahour, Franciscans
 St. Lazarus, Bethany, Franciscans
 Church of the Nativity, Bethlehem, Franciscans
 Milk Grotto, Bethlehem, Franciscans
 First Miracle Church, Cana, Franciscans
 House of Peter, Capernaum, Franciscans
 Church of the Visitation, Ein Karem, Franciscans
 St. John in the Desert, Ein Karem, Franciscans
 Stella Maris, Haifa, Carmelites
 Baptism of Our Lord, Jordan River, Franciscans
 Emmaus Nicoplis, Latrun, Betharram/Beatitudes
 Duc in Altum, Migdal, Legion of Christ
 Sermon on the Mount, Mount of Beatitudes, Franciscan Sisters of IHM
 Sacrifice of Elijah, Muhraqa, Carmelites
 Church of the Annunciation, Nazareth, Franciscans
 Church of St. Joseph, Nazareth, Franciscans
 Synagogue Church, Nazareth, Greek Melkite Catholics
 Emmaus Qubeibeh, Qubeibeh, Franciscans
 Church of Nicodemus, Ramleh, Franciscans
 Multiplication of the Loaves, Tabgha, Benedictines
 Primacy of Peter, Tabgha, Franciscans
 Transfiguration, Mount Tabor, Franciscans
 House of Parables, Taybeh, 
 Church of St. Peter, Tiberias, Koinonia Giovanni Battista

Pilgrimage centers in Jerusalem

 Armenian Guest House
 Austrian Hospice of the Holy Family
 Dom Polski (Musrara)
 Dom Polski (Old City)
 Ecce Homo, Sisters of Sion
 Franciscan Missionaries of Mary
 Knight's Palace
 Maison d'Abraham
 Notre Dame of Jerusalem Center
 Paulus-Haus
 Rosary Sisters (Mamila)
 Rosary Sisters (Old City)
 Saint Charles German Hospice
 Saint Maroun Guesthouse
 Saint Thomas Center
 Tantur Ecumenical Institute

Pilgrim's decorations
 Pilgrim's Shell, Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre
 Jerusalem Pilgrim's Cross, Franciscan Custody of the Holy Land

Popes, saints, martyrs