[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dawn (Wiesel novel)

a letter to his son. Elisha said he would put it in the post that day. As the time came for Dawson to die, he tried to tell his funny story, but it was too late at that point. Elisha shot as Dawson was saying his name. Once his job was done, Elisha walked back upstairs, knowing he was a changed man.

Character list 
 David B Moshe – David B Moshe was part of the Zionist Movement. He was captured by the Englishmen. He was sentenced to hanging by the Englishmen for being part of the Movement.
 John Dawson – John Dawson was an English army officer. He was caught for reprisal by the Zionist Movement. He was then held hostage by the Movement and was to be executed by Elisha. Elisha ends up shooting Dawson.
 Joab – Joab is part of the Zionist movement. He flees to an insane asylum to hide from his neighbor, who is against the Movement. Joab pretends to be sick so the police won't take him, but they take him anyway.
 Gideon – Gideon was part of the Zionist Movement. He is a very religious person. He survived torture and imprisonment because he thought God was with him.  He believed that he would make it alive if God was with him.
 Ghosts – Ghosts appeared throughout the book. They are all ghosts of his past who did not make it through the Holocaust. One significant ghost is the ghost of him as a child. This ghost represents how he died as a child and how his childhood is gone, and he can no longer go back to it.
 Elisha – 18-year-old Holocaust survivor who is recruited by Gad to go to Palestine and join the Movement. He is assigned to assassinate John Dawson at dawn.
 Gad – Man who recruited Elisha to the Zionist movement. He is Ilana's boyfriend.
 Ilana – Gad's girlfriend. She is the Voice of Freedom on the radio.
 The Old Man – The leader of the Movement. He orders the kidnapping of John Dawson and orders Elisha to kill him at dawn.

Religion 
Numerous times throughout the book religion plays a vital role in Elisha's thoughts. Religion is the primary motivator for all of Elisha's actions. He lives, dies and kills for his religion always using this to justify his borderline terrorist actions. Religion serves as an excuse for young freedom fighting Elisha.

Characters with religious implications

Gad - Represents Meshulah, a rabbinical emissary sent to deliver messages of fate. Elisha directly compares Gad to Meshulah. Gad delivers a message to Elisha telling him of the ongoing war in Palestine, and his intents to recruit Elisha. Sacrificing his future, Elisha surrenders to his fate.
Elisha - Named after Jewish prophet Elisha who appears in the Old Testament's Book of Kings, and in the New Testament as well.
Beggar - Hassidic Literature states how beggars may be prophet Elijah in disguise, visiting earth to offer men who treat him well eternal life. Not only could he be prophet Elijah but the Angel of Death, who may take a man's life or soul. Consequently, to these beliefs, Elisha feels obligated to be kind towards the beggar.
Messenger of God.

Haganah (The Movement) 
The Haganah by definition was the underground Jewish militia in Palestine founded in 1920 that became the national army of Israel after the partition of Palestine in 1948. It was founded to defend against the Palestinian Arabs.  The Jewish people believed that the British military forces could not protect their families against the Arab revolts. They believed it was impossible to depend on the British authorities for safety.

The activities of the Haganah were pretty mild until after World War II. After 1945, when the British refused to open Palestine to unlimited Jewish immigration, the tension between the two sides escalated. The acts of the Jewish movement then turned more violent. There were attacks on railroads, and bridges used to deport Jewish immigrants, attacks on British police stations, and hotel bombings that killed many British citizens.

In the years to follow, when the United Nations broke up Palestine, the Haganah emerged as the main defense force of the Jewish state.  In May 1948, when Israel first emerged as an independent state, the Haganah fighters merged into a more structured defense force. This was the birth of the IDF, the Israeli Defense forces.

Themes and motifs 
Wiesel's novel, Dawn, has powerful themes and motifs expressed throughout. One example of a reoccurring theme is past vs. present. In the past, the Jews were held in concentration camps and now that the war has ended, the Jews are trying to regain their rights. The Jews go from one end of the spectrum to the complete opposite end before and after World War II. Another important theme is becoming someone you hate. Once joining the movement, he takes the place of the people he hated, the Nazis. Before, the Nazis were committing acts of hate, but now Elisha and the movement are.