[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Concepta Riley

Concepta Riley (also Hewitt and Regan) is a fictional character from the British television soap opera Coronation Street, played by Doreen Keogh. Concepta was created by Tony Warren as one of Coronation Street's original characters. She debuted in the soap opera's fifth episode which was broadcast on 23 December 1960.

Concepta is recognised as the first ever barmaid of the Rovers Return Inn, an occupation which over time became an important role in the show. Her stories include her marriage to Harry Hewitt (Ivan Beavis) and becoming step-mother to his rebellious daughter Lucille (Jennifer Moss). She also gives birth to son, Christopher (Victoria Baker), and writers devised an abduction story for him. It became one of Concepta's most notable storylines and helped raise Coronation Street's viewership to 21 million, which at the time was their highest audience share.

When Tim Aspinall took over as the producer of Coronation Street, he decided to write Concepta and Harry out of the series. They left to begin a new life in Ireland, but left Lucille behind. Both Keogh and Beavis agreed to reprise their roles in 1967, but Harry was killed off when he is crushed by a van. After a five-year hiatus, Keogh reprised the role in 1972 and 1975. She then married Sean Regan (Tony Doyle) and her return stories focused on Sean kissing Bet Lynch (Julie Goodyear) and Concepta accepting his infidelity. At her final appearance, Keogh appeared in a total of 320 episodes of Coronation Street.

Creation
Concepta is one of Coronation Street's original characters. She was created by Tony Warren, who also created the show itself. The character's inclusion partly originated from requests made by television executive Denis Forman, who worked at Granada Television. He was concerned that the Manchester based soap opera would feature too many Mancunian based accents. He wanted either a Cockney or Irish accent to serve as relief from the Northern slang. Warren was already in the process of creating Concepta and she served Forman's request well. Actress Doreen Keogh successfully auditioned for the role after pursuing a long theatre career. Despite being created as one of the show's original characters, Concepta did not appear until the soap opera's fifth episode.

Development

Career and family
Concepta is portrayed as a "chirpy" character who works at the local pub the Rovers Return Inn. In her back story, Concepta was born in Dublin and came to Weatherfield to work at the pub, moving into the spare room. In the book 50 Years of Coronation Street, author Tim Randall describes Concepta as a "sweet-natured" barmaid. She is a devout Irish Catholic and she wants her children to be brought up following the same religion. Writers quickly established Concepta as the best friend and confidante of pub landlady Annie Walker (Doris Speed). There alongside Annie and her husband Jack Walker (Arthur Leslie), Concepta would be featured in scenes. One such scene, recorded at a time Coronation Street was filmed and broadcast live in the United Kingdom nearly went wrong but was saved due to Keogh's acting skill. When Jack directs Concepta into the Rovers Return to speak with Annie, Keogh proceeded to try the front door which was locked by mistake. Keogh improvised and changed the lines, and joked that Jack locked himself out and proceeded to try and enter via the back of the pub. The director of the episode was so impressed with Keogh saving the broadcast that he hugged her once the cameras were turned off.

The character has a place in the show's history as the first ever Rovers Return barmaid featured on the show. The barmaid role became so iconic that by the time of Keogh's death in 2017, she was still remembered well as the original.

Producers paired Concepta with Harry Hewitt (Ivan Beavis), a bus inspector and widower. Harry soon proposes to Concepta and they marry within a month. They were the second set of characters to marry on-screen in the show's history. The wedding took place on 1 October 1961. Concepta moves in with Harry and his daughter Lucille Hewitt (Jennifer Moss) at number seven Coronation Street. Lucille liked Concepta because she believed that her father would be happy once again having a wife. In 1962, writers came up with a dog racing storyline for the Hewitt's when they purchase a greyhound and enter it into a race, which it wins. This prompts Concepta's neighbours to believe that they can make money off the dog. Elsie Tanner (Pat Phoenix) even bets her entire holiday fund on the race, which it loses forcing the Hewitts to retire from dog racing.