[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Darragh Ó Sé

the second half and a rout ensued. Cork goalkeeper Alan Quirke came in for much criticism after conceding some easy goals. At the full-time whistle Cork were trounced by 3–13 to 1–9. It was a fifth All-Ireland medal for Ó Sé, his fourth on the field of play. A third All Star award quickly followed.

In 2008 there was speculation that Ó Sé, at the age of thirty-three, would retire from inter-county football. In the end he decided to line out with Kerry once again and help his team in their pursuit of a third All-Ireland title in-a-row. All did not go to plan as Ó Sé's side lost team captain Paul Galvin to suspension after an incident with referee Paddy Russell in the Munster semi-final against Clare. The subsequent Munster final saw Kerry take an eight-point lead over Cork at half-time. 'The Rebels' fought back and, in a massive downpour, Kerry could only muster three points in the second period of play as Cork secured a remarkable 1–16 to 1–11 victory. Furthermore, Ó Sé picked up a red card after an altercation with Pearse O'Neill. Kerry worked their way through to the All-Ireland semi-final where they faced Cork once again. 'The Kingdom' were much better in this encounter; however, Ó Sé received a straight red card for an incident with Pearse O'Neill once again.  At this stage of the game Kerry were cruising and it looked as if Ó Sé would miss the All-Ireland final. Two very late goals by Cork secured a draw. The replay was also an exciting affair; however, Kerry overcame Cork in their third championship meeting that year. An All-Ireland final appearance against Tyrone was the reward for this victory, with Ó Sé lining out at midfield again. An exciting game developed, one that was more competitive than the routs that had taken place at the same stage of the championship over the previous two years. The sides were level seven times before Colm Cooper nudged Kerry 0–8 to 0–7 ahead before the interval. Tyrone simply wore Kerry into the ground in the second half as a priceless goal from Tommy McGuigan and a string of late points inspired Tyrone to their third All-Ireland title of the decade.

While many thought that the All-Ireland defeat would finally signal the end of Ó Sé's long career, he rejoined the panel again in 2009. He came on as a substitute in Kerry's National League victory over Derry to capture his third winners' medal in that competition. Kerry's next game was a Munster semi-final meeting with Cork. That game ended in a draw, however, Kerry were well beaten in the replay. 'The Kingdom' were subsequently banished to the qualifiers where they had some unimpressive wins over Longford, Sligo and Antrim. Ó Sé and his squad later lined out in the All-Ireland quarter-final and thrashed Dublin before overcoming Meath in a disappointing semi-final. The subsequent All-Ireland final saw Kerry face Cork for the third time in that year's championship. Ó Sé's side entered the game as slight underdogs, however, they had the trump card of having never lost a game to Cork at Croke Park. Kerry stuttered in the opening period and trailed by 0–1 to 1–3 early in the first-half. The Kerry team stuck to their gameplan while Cork recorded fourteen wides. At the full-time whistle Kerry were the champions again by 0–16 to 1–9. It was Ó Sé's sixth All-Ireland winners' medal, his fifth on the field of play.  His contribution to the championship was later recognised when he picked up a fourth All-Star award.

A period of considerable speculation as to Ó Sé's future intentions ended in February 2010 when he announced his retirement from inter-county football in an interview in Irish with former teammate Dara Ó Cinnéide on the An Saol ó Dheas programme on RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta. He said that he had been considering the matter since Christmas but only came to a final decision at the beginning of February. Ó Sé added that he would continue to play with his club An Ghaeltacht and his divisional side Ciarraí Thiar.

Inter-provincial
Ó Sé also lined out with Munster in the inter-provincial championship and enjoyed some success. He first played with his province in 1996 as Munster defeated Ulster to set up a final date with Leinster. The men from the eastern province ran away with the victory in the end and defeated Ó Sé's side by 1–13 to 0–9.

After a few disappointing seasons where Ó Sé failed to be picked or faced defeat, Munster were back in the final again in 1999. Connacht were the opponents on this occasion; however, the men from the south made no mistake on this occasion. A 0–10 to 0–7 victory gave Ó Sé a Railway Cup winners' medal.

In 2007, at a time when most players would be contemplating retirement, Ó Sé was brought back to the Munster squad for the final time. The campaign was an ultimately disappointing one as Munster were defeated by Ulster in the Railway Cup final.