[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Moroccan Association for Human Rights

The Moroccan Association for Human Rights (, , abbreviated AMDH) is one of the biggest Moroccan human rights non-governmental organizations. It was founded on June 24, 1979, in Rabat to work for the preservation of human dignity and the respect, protection, defense and promotion of human rights in Morocco and Western Sahara. It uses different means to achieve its objectives such as the publication of a monthly newspaper, sit-ins and the holding of conferences. The AMDH considers equally crucial building partnerships with internal and external organizations and networks in order to be stronger in the fight for human rights.

Since its foundation the AMDH has faced some obstacles coming from the Moroccan authorities but it has managed to continue its operations. By 2015 the organization had 97 local branches throughout the country, which are organized into regional sections. A National Congress, an Administrative Commission and a Central Office are also part of the organizational structure of the AMDH.

History 
On June 24, 1979, the Moroccan Association for Human Rights was officially founded in Rabat at a Congress of the Socialist Union of Popular Forces (USFP), a Moroccan socialist party, which brought together delegates from the majority of the provinces and social strata. Since then, the AMDH has been willing to help and work with all citizens as long as they are not involved in human rights violations. It is recognized as an association of public utility by the decree n° 2.00.405 of 24 April 2000.  Since its foundation the AMDH has gone through four different periods until becoming today one of the biggest and most well-established organizations in Morocco.

First period 1979–1983 
The newly created Moroccan Association for Human Rights started to establish various sections across the country and initiated a number of activities in order to pursue its objectives. Nonetheless, the beginnings were especially hard for the organization. Under the regime of the then king of Morocco, Hassan II, it was subjected to persistent repression and its members were, on many occasions, persecuted and arrested, leading the AMDH to carry out its activity practically in secrecy. The Moroccan authorities limited the organization's freedom of action and prohibited the celebration of the Congress in 1983 twice: March and June.

Second period 1984–1988 
The climate of repression continued in Morocco with newspapers being censored, cultural movements restrained and organizations, such as the AMDH, repressed. In such situation the Moroccan Association for Human Rights, while it managed to keep its actions, was unable to flourish. Further, differences between the founders lead to an organizational crisis and, thus, stagnation.

Third period 1988–1991 
The repression and persecution by the Moroccan authorities relaxed  and the AMDH was able to surpass the crisis by renovating and reestablishing its strategy, principles and orientation during the second and third Congress, which took place in March 1989 and December 1991 respectively. In 1988 the AMDH started to cooperate with the Moroccan League for the Defense of Human Rights to carry out joint actions related to human rights, for example the organization of seminars.

Fourth period 1991–present 
Since the 1990s the AMDH has experienced a period of expansion and development, becoming one of the most important non-governmental organizations in Morocco. It has been holding its Congress every 3 years in a regular basis. In the last years, however, the AMDH has been facing once again some difficulties by the authorities who are restricting its activities and blocking the concession of their permit to continue operations.

AMDH publishes an annual report on human rights in Morocco. The 2010 report, cataloguing multiple human rights abuses including torture, suggests that the country has made little progress in human rights over the past year.

In 2006, AMDH was instrumental in the creation of national coordinating structures known as "les coordinations" to fight against poverty in Morocco. In 2011, ADMH sought to relaunch this structure, drawing on the momentum of the Arab Spring.

Objectives 
The main goal of the Moroccan Association for Human Rights is to work for the preservation of human dignity and the respect, protection, defense and promotion of all human rights. Other important objectives that the organization pursue are:

The respect of political, social, civil and economic international conventions.
The ratification by Morocco of international conventions on human rights and their integration into the law as well as the assurance that the country complies with those provisions.
The diffusion, awareness-raising and education on human rights.
The allegation and condemnation of violations of human rights
To give support to all people that have been a victim of human rights violations.