[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Louise Richardson

ccording to the Radcliffe Quarterly, Richardson was central to all administrative and academic activities. She managed the budget, infrastructure, and staff, while also overseeing a dramatic, multiyear renovation of three iconic buildings: the Schlesinger Library, the Radcliffe Gym, and Byerly Hall.

Richardson's scholarly profile at Radcliffe increased after the September 11 attacks, and her expertise helped to shield Harvard from criticism about the paucity of its terrorism course offerings. Richardson was asked to give lectures to a variety of audiences – policymakers, the military, intelligence agencies and business communities – as well as testifying before the US Senate. She continued to teach, both at Harvard College and Harvard Law School, and to write extensively.

Author of What Terrorists Want
In 2006, Richardson authored her first of several books, What Terrorists Want: Understanding the Enemy, Containing the Threat, about the roots of terrorism and the
Bush Administration's counterterrorism policies. The New York Times called it "the overdue and essential primer on terrorism and how to tackle it," while the Financial Times said it was a rare academic work, “a bestseller with no trade-off between accessibility and scholarly rigour.” And the New York Review of Books commented: “One would like to see the entire US national security establishment frog-marched into Richardson's Terrorism 101.”

Principal and Vice-Chancellor, University of St. Andrews
In 2009, Richardson was appointed principal of the University of St Andrews, succeeding Brian Lang. Her installation took place on 25 March 2009. She is the first woman, as well as the first Roman Catholic in modern times, to occupy the position. She was appointed professor of international relations at St Andrews in November 2010.

Private clubs and gender equality
Unlike previous principals, Richardson was not granted honorary membership to the Royal and Ancient Golf Club, which was all-male. Richardson spoke out about how the membership policies interfered with fundraising and the values of the university. Richardson characterized her general disapproval of elite, private clubs saying, "I understand people's desire to want to surround themselves with people like themselves. Where it becomes a problem, it seems to me, is when that group of people have access to a unique set of privileges from which others are excluded at birth." Richardson's concerns helped mobilize a drive to admit women, and in 2014, members of the golf club voted to change the policy.

In 2009, Richardson took another controversial stand by withdrawing official recognition of the Kate Kennedy Club. The all-male student organization hosted an annual parade and fundraiser that was known for being drunken and rowdy. Richardson wrote, "The official endorsement of any club or society which excludes people because of their gender or race would be completely at odds with the values of this university and our commitment to foster an open and inclusive international community of scholars and students at St. Andrews."

600-year anniversary and fundraising
Between 2011 and 2013, Richardson oversaw a range of activities surrounding the 600-year anniversary. As part of the celebrations, she joined a relay team of cyclists traveling 1600 miles to retrace the route of the institution's founding documents known as the papal bulls. They were issued by Pope Benedict XIII in 1413 and carried from Peniscola in Spain to St. Andrews in an historic journey that the cyclists recreated by pedalling 60 miles per day.

Richardson leveraged the anniversary to pursue a $150 million fundraising campaign that she had inherited.
She enlisted alumni, including the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge — Prince William and Princess Kate, who hosted a dinner at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, raising more than $3 million toward student scholarships. Richardson also invited Scottish screen legend Sir Sean Connery to produce a film about St. Andrews and then persuaded the actor to come out of retirement to appear in production. The documentary "Ever to Excel" premiered in 2012 as part of a fundraiser in New York City.

In separate efforts, Richardson raised private and government funds to allow St Andrews to purchase a former papermill in the nearby village of Guardbridge in 2010 and to convert it into a $35 million-dollar green energy center. Richardson also raised more than $2 million to fund St. Andrews's acquisition of a beloved local church in 2012. The vacant Martyrs Kirk church was transformed into a state-of the art research center and special collections reading room.

Richardson insisted universities should not be afraid to look abroad for support from legitimate donors and charities. She rebuffed criticisms over donor influence saying, "Any academic who tailors research to suit a donor is not worthy of the name."