[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of Roman external wars and battles

ontius.
 316 BC – Battle of Lautulae – Romans are defeated by the Samnites.
 305 BC – Battle of Bovianum – Roman consuls M. Fulvius and L. Postumius decisively defeat the Samnites.
 310 BC – Battle of Lake Vadimo – Romans, led by dictator Lucius Papirius Cursor, defeat the Etruscans.

3rd century BC

 Third Samnite War (298–290 BC)
 298 BC – Battle of Camerinum – Samnites defeat the Romans under Lucius Cornelius Scipio Barbatus.
 297 BC – Battle of Tifernum – Romans under Quintus Fabius Maximus and Lucius Cornelius Scipio Barbatus defeat the Samnite army led by Gellius Statius
 295 BC – Battle of Sentinum – Romans under Fabius Rullianus and Publius Decimus Mus defeat the Samnites and their Etruscan and Gallic allies, forcing the Etruscans, Gauls, and Umbrians to make peace
 293 BC – Battle of Aquilonia – Romans decisively defeat the Samnites.
 Wars with Gauls and Etruscans (285–282 BC)
 284 BC – Battle of Arretium – A Roman army under Lucius Caecilius is destroyed by the Gauls.
 283 BC – Battle of Lake Vadimo – A Roman army under P. Cornelius Dolabella defeats the Etruscans and Gauls.
 282 BC – Battle of Populonia – Etruscan resistance to Roman domination of Italy is finally crushed.
 Pyrrhic War (280–272 BCE)
 280 BC – Battle of Heraclea – First engagement of Roman and Greek armies, the latter led by Pyrrhus of Epirus, who is victorious, but at great cost.
 279 BC – Battle of Asculum – Pyrrhus again defeats the Romans but once again suffers significant casualties in the process.
 275 BC – Battle of Beneventum – Inconclusive encounter between Pyrrhus and the Romans under Manius Curius.
 265 BCE – Rome completed the occupation of the Italian Peninsula (except Northern Italy)
 First Punic War (264–241 BCE)
 261 BC – Battle of Agrigentum – Carthaginian forces under Hannibal Gisco and Hanno are defeated by the Romans, who attain control of most of Sicily.
 260 BC - 
 Battle of the Lipari Islands – A Roman naval force is defeated by the Carthaginians.
 Battle of Mylae – A Roman naval force under C. Duillius defeats the Carthaginian fleet, giving Rome control of the western Mediterranean.
 258 BC – Battle of Sulci – Minor Roman victory against the Carthaginian fleet near Sardinia.
 257 BC – Battle of Tyndaris – Naval victory of Rome over Carthage in Sicilian waters.
 256 BC – 
 Battle of Cape Ecnomus – A Carthaginian fleet under Hamilcar and Hanno is defeated in an attempt to stop a Roman invasion of Africa by Marcus Atilius Regulus.
 Battle of Adys – Romans under Regulus defeat the Carthaginians in North Africa
 255 BC – Battle of Tunis – Carthaginians under Xanthippus, a Greek mercenary, defeat the Romans under Regulus, who is captured.
 251 BC – Battle of Panormus – Carthaginian forces under Hasdrubal are defeated by the Romans under L. Caecilius Metellus.
 250 BC - Siege of Lilybaeum - Siege on the Carthaginian city of Lilybaeum by Roman army under Gaius Atilius Regulus Serranus and Lucius Manlius Vulso Longus. Carthaginian victory.
 249 BC – Battle of Drepana – Carthage under Adherbal defeat the fleet of Roman admiral Publius Claudius Pulcher.
 241 BC – Battle of the Aegates Islands – Roman sea victory over the Carthaginians.
 238 BCE – Roman conquest of Sardinia
 First Illyrian War (229–228 BCE)
 Roman-Gallic wars (225–200 BC)
 225 BC – Battle of Faesulae – Romans are defeated by the Gauls of Northern Italy.
 225 BC – Battle of Telamon – Romans under Aemilius Papus and Gaius Atilius Regulus defeat the Gauls.
 222 BC – Battle of Clastidium – Romans under Marcus Claudius Marcellus defeat the Gauls.
 216 BC - Battle of Silva Litana - Roman army under Lucius Postumius Albinus is ambushed by the Boii and crushed under falling trees.
 Gaulish invasion of northern Italy (200–191 BCE)
 200 BC – Battle of Cremona – Roman forces defeat the Gauls of Cisalpine Gaul
 220–219 BCE Second Illyrian War
 Second Punic War (218–201 BCE)
 218 BC – 
 Battle of Lilybaeum – First naval clash between the navies of Carthage and Rome during the Second Punic War; Roman victory.
 Battle of Cissa – Romans defeat Carthaginians near Tarraco and gain control of the territory north of the Ebro River.
 Battle of the Ticinus – Hannibal defeats the Romans under Publius Cornelius Scipio the elder in a cavalry fight.
 Battle of the Trebia – Hannibal defeats the Romans under Tiberius Sempronius Longus with the use of an ambush.
 217 BC -
 Battle of Ebro River – In a surprise attack, Romans defeat and capture the Carthaginian fleet in Hispania.
 Battle of Lake Trasimene – In another ambush, Hannibal destroys the Roman army of Gaius Flaminius, who is killed.
 Battle of Ager Falernus – Avoiding destruction with deceit, Hannibal escapes Fabius' trap in this small skirmish.
 216 BC – 
 Battle of Cannae – Hannibal destroys the main Roman army of Lucius Aemilius Paulus and Publius Terentius Varro in what is considered one of the great masterpieces of the tactical art.
 Battle of Silva Litana - The Boii ambushed and destroyed a Roman army of 25,000 men