[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Saša Ćurčić

Saša Ćurčić (Serbian Cyrillic: Саша Ћурчић; born 14 February 1972) is a Serbian former professional footballer, coach and reality television personality.

As a player, he was a midfielder who notably played in the Premier League for Bolton Wanderers, Aston Villa and Crystal Palace. He also played in the Scottish Premiership for Motherwell, in Major League Soccer for the MetroStars and in his native country for OFK Beograd and Partizan. He was also capped 14 times for the national team of FR Yugoslavia. Since retirement, Ćurčić has appeared as a reality tv personality and has appeared on Serbian versions of Celebrity Big Brother and The Farm as well as Parovi.

Early life
Growing up on the banks of Danube in the Belgrade suburb of Besni Fok, Ćurčić was a lively kid who took to football very early. His involvement with the sport came at the expense of everything else, including school as he only completed primary education. After playing youth football with several local area clubs, he caught the attention of OFK Beograd, a more established club that included Ćurčić in their youth system. In a 1991 interview for Tempo, Ćurčić (then with OFK Beograd) admitted to have been a Red Star Belgrade fan since adolescence — however, later on after transferring to FK Partizan, he repeatedly stated to have always been a FK Partizan supporter.

Club career

OFK Beograd
Nineteen-year-old Ćurčić cracked OFK Beograd's first team towards the end of the 1990–91 season while the club played in the Yugoslav Second League under head coach Ilija Petković. Ćurčić featured in three matches that season. Despite failing to gain promotion on the pitch, OFK still got to play in the Yugoslav First League for the following 1991–92 season due to the withdrawal of Slovenian and Croatian teams (a season that would turn out to be the last in SFR Yugoslavia). Against the backdrop of a country falling apart, Ćurčić became first team regular, playing 24 league matches and scoring two goals. His talent and exuberance turned some heads, including the national team head coach Ivica Osim who gave Ćurčić his international debut on 30 October 1991 in an away friendly versus Brazil.
He continued improving during the 1992–93 season (first one in FR Yugoslavia) with 3 goals from 32 league appearances, earning himself a big time summer 1993 move to Yugoslav champions FK Partizan.

Partizan
Coached by Ljubiša Tumbaković, Partizan was in a transitional phase despite coming off the title winning campaign. With team leader Predrag Mijatović leaving for Valencia CF and other important players like Vujadin Stanojković and Zlatko Zahovič departing as well, it was up to the new arrivals to carry the torch. For his part, Ćurčić responded with a fine overall season (seven goals from 33 league matches), contributing greatly to another Partizan league title with key assists and buildup play. The following season (1994–95) brought more steady play from Ćurčić (five goals from 31 league matches) as the offers from abroad started coming in for his services.

He began the 1995–96 season at Partizan (his third with the club), but in October 1995 after 10 league matches (two goals), Bolton Wanderers put in a £1.5 million transfer bid (Bolton's record fee at the time) and he was on his way to England signed by the managerial team of Colin Todd and Roy McFarland.

Bolton Wanderers
Making his Bolton debut at the club's Burnden Park stadium on 31 October 1995 versus Arsenal in the Premiership, Ćurčić quickly settled into the new surroundings. Only nine days later he scored his first goal in English football during League Cup third round replay away at Leicester City. The same month he opened his scoring account in the Premier League with a great individual effort versus Chelsea to put Bolton ahead at Stamford Bridge though the visitors still lost 3–2 in the end.