[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Business process outsourcing to India

haping the digital landscape of India. Arvind Kumar, the Director General of STPI, lauded the company's outstanding contribution to women's employment, underscoring their pivotal role in fostering gender inclusivity.

Criticisms

The BPO industry in India has attracted criticism from some observers.

 Shehzad Nadeem, of the Sociology Department at Lehman College, City University of New York, reports that Indian call-centre employees, to confirm to expectations of the US consumers who they support long-distance, are expected to imitate the Western employees they have replaced in terms of the use of US vernacular, even temporarily adopting an Anglo name during the call. While this is true, Nadeem claims further that this temporary switch to an American-like identity inflicts psychological distress, and has led to the adoption of Western-style-consumer lifestyles by the employees, who earn far more than their compatriots.
 Jyoti Saraswati of the Stern School of Business, New York University, claims that the outsourcing industry's political influence far exceeds the industry's economic contribution, and has allowed the industry to secure the support and resources of the Indian state ahead of other sectors of the national economy where the developmental returns would be far greater.

Another point that should be considered while outsourcing, not only to India but any other region, is Intellectual Property Protection. When companies outsource their work, they have to dilute their core knowledge related to process before transferring the diluted knowledge to the outsource. If they fail to do this, the outsource can learn enough about the outsourcing organization's business to compete with them later by offering similar services in their own country or even multi-nationally.

See also

General
 H-1B visa
 Globalisation
 Software Technology Parks of India
 Nalini by Day, Nancy by Night, 2005 documentary on outsourcing in India

Large BPO parks
 Tidel Park
 HITEC City
 Silicon Valley of India

Economy
 Economy of India
 Remittances to India 
 Foreign trade of India
 List of exports of India
 Largest trading partners of India   
 Information technology in India
 Indianisation

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nadeem, Shehzad. Dead Ringers:How Outsourcing is Changing the Way Indians Understand Themselves. .
Saraswati, Jyoti. Dot.compradors: Power and Policy in the Development of the Indian Software Industry. .

External links
 NASSCOM (National Association of Software & Service Companies)
 Ministry of Communications & Information Technology, Department of Information Technology, India
Articles
 The Rise Of India, Business Week Online
 Inside Outsourcing in India, CIO.com
 India's New Faces of Outsourcing, The Washington Post
 Outsourcing: Silicon Valley East, MSNBC
 Where the Good Jobs Are Going, Jyoti Thottam, Time.com
 Some U.S. hospitals outsourcing work: Shortage of radiologists spurs growing telemedicine trend, Associated Press

Videos
 The Other Side of Outsourcing, Discovery Times Channel
 Exporting IT: Austin to India, News 8 Austin
 Will India's outsourcing boom ever bust?: Infosys Chairman  talks outsourcing, News.com
 India 101 on eweek Video Seminars hosted by Stan Gibson
 The Rise of India, ABC News