[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Battle of Lima Site 85

06:35, the PAVN fully controlled the TACAN site. At the airstrip, Cell 4 was encircled by an estimated two Hmong platoons, but Chom and his unit were able to fight their way out by taking full advantage of rough terrain which favored them. Later, Cell 4 linked up with other units at the TACAN site.

At first light Air America helicopters hovered over Lima Site 85 to start the evacuation, which was covered by USAF A-1 Skyraiders. Immediately, Hmong soldiers and their CIA commanders rushed the TACAN site and shouted to the US technicians that help was coming. In response, the PAVN Special Forces organized a defense around the TACAN site, and hid their dead and wounded comrades under the large rocks which dotted Phou Pha Thi. While US fighter-bombers strafed the TACAN site, the Air America helicopter landed on the airstrip and they picked up two CIA officers, one forward air-controller, and five technicians who hid during the firefight. Later in the day, Air America was able to recover or account for eight of the dead US personnel on Lima Site 85, along with a number of wounded Hmong soldiers. By midday, Lima Site 85 was fully controlled by the PAVN 41st Special Forces Battalion, and they held the facility until 14 March when they withdrew from the area.

Aftermath
Just before midday on 11 March, the USAF turned their attention from looking for their missing personnel to that of destroying the captured radar, along with all the documentation and operation information left behind at Lima Site 85. Between 12–18 March, the USAF conducted a total of 95 strike sorties against the radar site, and on 19 March an A-1 fighter-bomber destroyed every building at the facility. In addition to the destruction of their radar equipment, the USAF bombing of Lima Site 85 may also have had the effect of obliterating the bodies of US personnel left behind at the site (two sets of remains were found in 2013). In the days following the loss of Phou Pha Thi, Sullivan reflected on the disaster at Lima Site 85 and commented that US technicians operating there should have been evacuated on 10 March, when it became amply clear the PAVN were preparing to launch an assault.

For the USAF, the loss at Phou Pha Thi was not a result of intelligence failure, because it had been provided with accurate information from the very start. Instead, it was clearly a failure of command and control, as the US personnel and their Hmong allies were not permitted to freely organize their own defense to hold the radar facility. The Battle of Lima Site 85 resulted in the largest single ground combat loss of USAF personnel during the Vietnam War. A total of 12 US personnel went missing or were killed in the fighting on Phou Pha Thi; 11 were killed or missing on the ground and one was shot dead during the evacuation. In addition a USAF A-1 searching for survivors was shot down and the pilot killed.

The total casualty figures for PAVN, Pathet Lao, Hmong, and Thai units are unknown. According to official Vietnamese history, the PAVN 41st Special Forces Battalion lost one soldier killed and two wounded in their fight for Lima Site 85. Against those losses, the Vietnamese claimed a total of 42 Hmong and Thai soldiers were killed, and a number of others were wounded. A large number of weapons were captured by the PAVN, including one 105 mm howitzer, one 85 mm artillery piece, four recoilless rifles, four heavy mortars, nine heavy machine guns, and vast amounts of ammunition. The PAVN victory proved to be a significant one, as they had succeeded in knocking out a major asset of the USAF, which had inflicted heavy damage to North Vietnam's limited industrial infrastructure.

The fight at Phou Pha Thi, which was part of a larger military campaign waged by the North Vietnamese and their Pathet Lao allies, marked the beginning of the Communist dry-season offensive against Laotian Government forces in northeastern Laos. By September 1968, the strength of PAVN and Pathet Lao forces in the Sam Neua area were estimated to have numbered more than 20 battalions. Against such heavy odds, General Vang Pao insisted on recapturing Phou Pha Thi, which the US Embassy believed unnecessary. On 1 November 1968, Pao launched Operation Pigfat in attempt to retake Phou Pha Thi, but the operation quickly turned into a rout of the Royal Lao Army and the Hmong guerrillas and Phou Pha Thi was never retaken.