[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Caged Virgin

ggle with Islam, intended as a model how other Muslim women may achieve their own emancipation. In advising women how to address the divide between Western and Islamic thought, she draws on her firsthand knowledge of the Islamic world and the philosophical tradition originating in the Enlightenment.

Hirsi Ali contends that in Islamic regions Muslim women who seek solace and escape from Islam are typically threatened with death, and those Muslim women who do escape the "virgins' cage" are branded whores. The author discusses Islamic views on the role of women, the rights of individuals, the roots of Islamic fanaticism, and proposes Western policies toward Muslim-majority countries and immigrant communities. Hirsi Ali emphasises how Muslim women have no basic rights in their lives. She describes how Muslim women are trapped not just in one, but two cages; a physical one where their movements are monitored, and a metaphysical one, which restricts their religious and cultural beliefs. In the chapter "Ten Tips for Muslim Women Who Want to Leave", she describes the steps Muslim girls and young women can take in order to escape their conservative Islamic parental homes and live a life of their own choice.

Reception

Dutch edition 
Reviewing  for de Volkskrant, Anet Bleich opined that the Ten Tips for Muslim girls who want to escape the metaphorical virgin's cage at the book's end were "well-reasoned and wise advice; this open letter is Hirsi Ali at her finest". However, Bleich dubbed her an "uncompromising idealist: that is both her strength and weakness. It's great that she constantly succeeds in making her point about the oppression of Muslim women. But it's a shame that she doesn't have the patience to look for allies in her own Enlightened Muslim circle."

In early September 2004, Trouw called it a "hard-hitting" book, especially the stories from the four Somali women that Hirsi Ali acquainted during her job as an interpreter.  was readily compatible with the film Submission that premiered on the Zomergasten programme soon after. A December 2004 Trouw review by Paul-Kleis Jager wondered whether it was necessary to criticise the religion itself in order to liberate Muslim girls and women, pointing to the recently emerged French feminist movement Ni Putes Ni Soumises that was led by secular Muslim woman Fadela Amara. Yet, he found it difficult to deny how intimately the virginity cult in Islam was tied to the core teachings of the Quran and the Traditions of Muhammad, causing few Muslim girls and women to have a choice in determining "whether, and if so, whom they married to; and whether, and if so, how many children they wanted to get". Such attitudes, Jager agreed with Hirsi Ali, resulted in "illiterate unhealthy mothers sitting at home, unable to guide their children into the world of education and labour," which was "complicit in the economic lag of Muslims".

NRC Handelsblad critic Beatrijs Ritsema labelled it a "somewhat disorderly booklet, a kind of anti-Islam almanac", but praised its style: "What an enthusiasm, and so often Hirsi Ali is spot on." Ritsema agreed with Hirsi Ali that domestic violence prevention agencies should work better together, and the abuser rather than the victim should be moved out of the house. She did not agree, however, that all Muslim men sexually oppress Muslim women, though admitted many of them did. Ritsema was more optimistic about the degree to which third-generation Muslim immigrants integrated in Western society and adapted to progressive cultural norms regarding sexual autonomy and gender equality. She emphasised there were major differences amongst Muslims just as there were amongst the native Dutch, though the former still had a lot of catching up to do.

German edition 
Der Spiegel noted that Hirsi Ali's book, of which the German edition  had already sold 80,000 copies between May and August 2005, fitted in a new emerging genre of books about Muslim women who escaped forced marriage arranged by their families and managed to establish a free life in Europe. Ayaan's work was compared to Ich wollte nur frei sein ("I Just Wanted to be Free") by Hülya Kalkan, Mich hat keiner gefragt ("Nobody Asked Me") by Ayşe, Erstickt an euren Lügen ("Choke on your Lies") by Inci Y., Fundamentalismus gegen Frauen ("Fundamentalism Against Women") by Nawal El Saadawi and Verschleppt in Jemen ("Kidnapped in Yemen") by Zana Muhsen.