[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Azerbaijan–Georgia relations

way vehicles, mineral and chemical fertilizers, mineral waters, strong drinks, glass and glass wares, and pharmaceuticals, among other things. Azerbaijani exports to Georgia include oil and petroleum products, natural gas, plastic wares, waste foodstuff, furniture and building constructions.

Border

Despite good relations in the energy sector, the Georgian-Azerbaijani border still has yet to be clarified.  Especially contentious is the Georgian David Gareja monastery complex which is divided between the two countries.  Giorgi Manjgaladze, Georgia's deputy foreign minister proposed that Georgia would be willing to exchange other territory for the remainder of David Gareja because of its historical and cultural significance to the Georgians. Baku disapproves of this land swap because of David Gareja's strategic military importance.  In April 2007, Azerbaijan's deputy foreign minister Khalaf Khalafov remarked that the monastery "was home to the Caucasian Albanians, who are believed to have been the earliest inhabitants of Azerbaijan."  In response, Georgian foreign minister Gela Bezhuashvili stated that Khalafov's history lessons are "absolutely incomprehensible" and that "he should read up on world history."

In their recent comments, Azeri officials confirmed that Azerbaijan "is open to implementation of joint projects with Georgia for the restoration of the complex." However, official suggestions that the complex could be a "shared tourist zone" have sparked indignation from the Georgian public.  Catholicos-Patriarch of All Georgia Ilia II said that "the monastery was a holy shrine that should lie entirely on Georgian soil." Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili downplayed the dispute and said that "it can be resolved through friendly dialogue."

Controversies
Although Azerbaijan and Georgia managed to build friendly relations, some controversies occasionally happens. One of the controversial situations labeled as a football scandal took place during the first leg of a UEFA Europa League qualifier between local Dinamo versus Gabala in Tbilisi on July 2, 2015 and served as a serious threat to Azerbaijan–Georgia relations and led to anger among Azerbaijani population. 
The worst and the most serious incident occurred during the match itself when a Georgian fan group hung out a poster with the following text “We remember Zagatala and Kakh. 1921”. The poster was taken away after efforts by UEFA officials. Right after that episode, Dinamo Tbilisi management released a statement condemning the incident and distancing itself from football hooligans.
The immediate reaction to the incident came from top officials as well. “Strategic relationship with the Azerbaijani government and people is very important for Georgia. As the head of the Georgian government, I resolutely state that nobody, with such provocative actions, will be allowed to cast a shadow upon relations with Azerbaijan,” Georgian Prime Minister Irakli Garibashvili said. He also called on the country's Interior Ministry to launch an investigation into the alleged incident.

In 2019, tensions escalated between Azerbaijan and Georgia as the countries disputed ownership of the David Gareja monastery complex.

Diplomacy

Republic of Azerbaijan
Tbilisi (Embassy)
Batumi (Consulate-General)

Republic of Georgia
Baku (Embassy)
Ganja (Consulate-General)

Footnotes

See also

Armenia–Georgia relations 
Georgia–Turkey relations
Armenia–Turkey relations 
Azerbaijan–Turkey relations 
Armenia–Azerbaijan relations 
Georgians in Azerbaijan 
Azerbaijanis in Georgia
Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline
David Gareja monastery complex

External links
  Azerbaijani embassy in Tbilisi
  Georgian embassy in Baku

 
Bilateral relations of Georgia (country)
Georgia