[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Israel Folau

nga were kept scoreless, losing 36–0.

Sponsorships
In 2009, Folau was offered sponsorships by Adidas and Powerade and, in 2013, by Goodman Fielder.

His sponsorship deal with ASICS was terminated in 2019 after he was found guilty of breaching Rugby Australia's player code of conduct.

Personal life

Folau has  a sister and four brothers. He is the older brother of John Folau, who is also a rugby union player.

"Israel Folau Street" was named in his honour in October 2010 in a suburb of Goodna, Queensland, where Folau played junior rugby league.

On 23 October 2016, Folau announced his engagement to New Zealand netball player Maria Tuta'ia. They were married outdoors on a private estate in Kangaroo Valley, New South Wales on 15 November 2017.

Religious views
Folau grew up as a Mormon, but moved to being an active member of the Assemblies of God Christian denomination in 2011. His father, Eni Folau, is a pastor. Folau has credited his relationship with God as a reason for his athletic success in the NRL, AFL and rugby union. In a 2017 article for Players Voice, Folau wrote that he reads the Bible every day and that faith in Jesus Christ is the "cornerstone of every single thing in my life" and "I believe that it is a loving gesture to share passages from the Bible with others. I do it all the time when people ask me questions about my faith or things relating to their lives, whether that's in-person or on my social media accounts." Folau is nontrinitarian. He has been described as a fundamentalist Christian.

Same-sex marriage
In 2017, the Turnbull government called a national postal survey on the question of changing Australian law to recognise same-sex marriage. In September, the ARU management declared the Wallabies in support of the change, prompting Folau to announce his personal opposition a day later on Twitter, where he wrote: "I love and respect all people for who they are and their opinions. but personally, I will not support gay marriage." Folau later wrote in Players Voice: "I didn't agree with Bill Pulver taking a stance on the same-sex marriage vote on behalf of the whole organisation, but I understand the reasons behind why he did."

Homosexuality
In March 2015, Israel Folau, playing for the New South Wales Waratahs Rugby team, told ABC radio that there was no room for homophobia in the game, amidst allegations of homophobic sledging originating from a player on his team, and denied there was homophobia in his club.

Folau's religious views became a subject of controversy in April 2018, when a follower of his Instagram account asked him what God's "plan for homosexuals" was, and Folau replied: "Hell.. unless they repent of their sins and turn to God."

Folau later wrote in Players Voice "My response to the question is what I believe God's plan is for all sinners, according to my understanding of my Bible teachings, specifically 1 Corinthians 6:9–10". The tweet led to accusations of homophobia against Folau and of religious discrimination against him by accusers. The Wallabies chief sponsor Qantas condemned Folau's comments, announcing: "We've made clear to Rugby Australia that we find the comments very disappointing." Rugby Australia's CEO, Raelene Castle, said that they accepted Folau's position, though they did not agree with his views, and he would not be sanctioned by the organisation.

Folau wrote: "Since my social media posts were publicised, it has been suggested that I am homophobic and bigoted and that I have a problem with gay people. This could not be further from the truth. I fronted the cover of the Star Observer magazine to show my support for the Bingham Cup, which is an international gay rugby competition for both men and women. I believe in inclusion. In my heart, I know I do not have any phobia towards anyone."

Gender optional birth certificates
On Wednesday, 10 April 2019, the Tasmanian Parliament passed amendments to the Birth, Deaths and Marriages Registration Act to allow gender to be changed on Birth Certificates by a simple statutory declaration.  Later on that day on his personal Twitter account, Folau posted a screenshot of the news headline that read: "Tasmania becomes first Australian jurisdiction to make gender optional on birth certificates". Folau then tweeted: 'The devil has blinded so many people in this world. Repent and turn away from your evil ways. Turn to Jesus Christ who will set you free".

In response, Andy Brennan, Australia's only openly gay male professional soccer player at the time, said "If I was 16 years old and reading what he said, it would have made me feel awful", and "You can't let negativity win, otherwise what [Folau] says wins."