[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# December 1977

ve killed most of the people on both ships.
Born: René Redzepi, Danish chef and restaurateur, owner of the Copenhagen's award-winning Noma restaurant; in Copenhagen
Died: 
Gustaf Aulén, 98, Swedish Lutheran theologian, author of Christus Victor
Yngve Larsson, 93, Swedish urban planner and politician

December 17, 1977 (Saturday)
Two days of voting were completed in a referendum in the Philippines on whether President and Prime Minister Ferdinand E. Marcos should continue in office after the organization in 1978 of a new national legislature, the Interim Batasang Pambansa. Official returns showed Marcos winning more than 89% of the vote.
A the age of 80, Miskel Spillman became the oldest person to host the U.S. comedy variety show Saturday Night Live, being two months older than actress Ruth Gordon, who had been 80 when she hosted on January 22. Mrs. Spillman, who won the program's one-time "Anybody Can Host" contest, had been selected after writing "I am 80 years old and I want one more cheap thrill as my doctor just told me I only have 25 years to live." Mrs. Spillman, who lived 24 more years after being the only non-celebrity to host the show, would hold the record until 2010, when 88-year-old comedian Betty White was the host.
Born: Oxana Fedorova, Russian model, 2002 Miss Universe winner who was the first ever to be dethroned, later a television host; in Pskov, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union

December 18, 1977 (Sunday)
SA de Transport Aérien Flight 730, an international charter service from Zurich in Switzerland to Madeira in Portugal, crashed into the Atlantic Ocean during a landing attempt. Many of the 36 dead survived the crash but drowned while trapped inside the sinking aircraft. Another 21 survived with the help of rescuers and by swimming to the shore.
Died: 
Cyril Ritchard, 79, British stage, film and TV actor known best for portraying Captain Hook in the Broadway production of Peter Pan
Louis Untermeyer, 92, American poet and editor described as "credited with bringing poetry to more people than any other American of his generation" for his anthologies of modern poetry.
Marriner Eccles, 87, U.S. businessman and economist, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board as well as for forming (in 1928) the first multibank holding company in the U.S., First Security Bank

December 19, 1977 (Monday)
The government of Indonesia released more than 10,000 political prisoners, many of whom had been held for 12 years without trial on suspicion of being part of the 30 September Movement that had attempted to overthrow the government in 1965.
Dries van Agt was sworn in as the new Prime Minister of the Netherlands, succeeding Joop den Uyl, who had resigned eight months earlier on March 22. Van Agt had previously served as the Minister of Justice and the Vice Premier. The new government was formed from a coalition of the Christian Democrats and the Liberal Party, which combined for 77 of the 150 seats in the Second Chamber, a majority of only two.
Died: 
Nellie Tayloe Ross, 101, the first woman governor of a U.S. state, Governor of Wyoming 1925 to 1927
Vice Admiral Takeo Kurita, 88, Japanese Navy officer and commander of the Imperial Navy 2nd Fleet in the Battle of Leyte Gulf