[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Home Front Command

The Home Front Command (, Pikud HaOref, also known as PAKAR/HFC) is an Israel Defense Forces military district command, created in February 1992 in response to the lessons of the Gulf War, which was the first war since the 1948 Arab–Israeli War in which centers of civilian population faced significant threat. The command is responsible for civil defense: preparing the civilian population for a conflict or disaster, assisting the population during the crisis, and contributing to post-crisis reconstruction.

Mission 
The mission of the Home Front Command is to strengthen national resilience and save lives. The command does this by preparing the civilian space before a conflict, supporting the civilian space during a conflict while carrying out Search and rescue operations in the event of an attack on the home front, and assisting in the rapid restoration of the civilian space after a conflict has ended. The Home Front Command publishes regular instructions for civil defense, especially in times of emergency, and operates a telephone emergency center numbered 104.

This unit should not be confused with Unit 669. The Home Front Command includes a domestic search and rescue unit, primarily operating in times of natural disasters, while Unit 669 is the Israeli Air Force's Tactical Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) unit that operates behind enemy lines.

Fields of responsibility 
As of the Home Front Command's website, it's fields of responsibility are:

 To draft and publish the rulebook of civil defense.
 To prepare and execute plans for civil defense for the entire country and all its territory.
 To train, guide, and operate Magen David Adom in Israel (MDA), the firefighting and rescue services, and the other assistant organizations regarding the fulfilment of their duties in the field of civil defense.
 To guide the population on the home front as well as all officials in the home front theater during attacks or unique situations on the home front as well as issue appropriate instructions.
 To guide local authorities as regards the fulfilment of their duties as regards issues of civil defense.
 To coordinate the activities of government ministries, private factories, national infrastructure, and emergency organizations on issues related to civil defense.
 To draft policies for civil defense for all areas and in coordination with area commands.
 To serve as the competent authority, as defined by law, for the issue of shelter and to serve as an authority, as defined by the Civil Defense Regulations for the matter of dangerous materials.
 To determine the way citizens are alerted, including specifying sirens and all-clear signals, their distribution, and their operation through various methods.
 To construct a system to detect, identify, and decontaminate areas affected by chemical or biological warfare on the home front and to operate that system during incidents of civil defense.
 To store and distribute personal defensive kits to the population in accordance with the regulations in the Civil Defense Regulations (defense kits) 5741-1990 and in accordance with government decisions.
 To operate the necessary powers to execute rescue and lifesaving activities as determined by law.

History

Until the establishment of the Command, responsibility for the Home Front fell under the Civilian Defense's Chief Officer Corps Command and under Regional Defense. During that time, the three regional commands had their own home front commands. After the first Persian Gulf War, these organizations were unified and the Home Front Command was created. It is currently headed by Aluf Rafi Milo

The role of the Homefront command as a civil defense service are embodied in the Israeli civil defense laws of 1951 as well as other government regulations and decisions. Civil defense is defined in law as follows: "The measures taken to defend against any attack, or the danger the attack poses to the civil population, or to minimize the outcome of such an attack to remove weaponry which is not for self-defense."

Units and districts
The Command is divided into five districts (which are further divided into subdistricts):
 Northern District
 Haifa District
 Dan District
 Jerusalem and Central District
 Southern District

Together the districts field 26 rescue battalions, 13 NBC-defense battalions, 14 military hospitals, 8 light infantry battalions and 6 logistic units manned mostly by reservists. Additionally the active duty "Alon" Brigade fields the following units:

 489th "Kedem"/"East" Search and Rescue Battalion
 498th "Shahar"/"Dawn" Search and Rescue Battalion
 894th "Tavor" Search and Rescue Battalion
 668th "Ram" Search and Rescue Battalion

It also has the search-and-recue training base, Bahad 16.

Notable operations

Albanian earthquake relief assistance