[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002

Signed into effect on 12 June 2002, the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, (PHSBPRA) was signed by the President, the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).

It established procedures for preparation for bioterrorism and public health emergencies. It also created the National Disaster Medical System, through which teams of health professionals, such as physicians, pharmacists, paramedics, and nurses, volunteer in emergency situations.

A component of the new rules include security risk assessment of individuals who have access to the select agents and toxins. It is intended to establish new rules for registering the possession, use, and transfer of specific toxins and agents that could endanger the safety and health of people, animals, and plants. Any person who meets the criteria of a "restricted person" as defined in the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, must not be afforded access to these materials.

Title I: National Preparedness for Bioterrorism and Other Public Health Emergencies
Title I deals with preparation on the federal, state, and local level for bioterrorism and other public health emergencies such as epidemics.

Subtitle A: National Preparedness and Response Planning, Coordinating, and Reporting
Subtitle A amended the Public Health Service Act to add Title XXVIII: National Preparedness for Bioterrorism and Other Public Health Emergencies. It directed the DHHS, through the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to coordinate a strategy for preparing for and responding to bioterrorism and other public health emergencies, including the preparation of a plan to ensure that the activities of the Secretary regarding bioterrorism and other public health emergencies are coordinated with state and local governments.

It requires the federal government to provide assistance to state and local governments in the event of bioterrorism or other public health emergency and ensure that state and local governments are prepared to detect and respond to such emergencies, including capability for effective public health surveillance and reporting, appropriate laboratory readiness, properly trained and equipped emergency personnel, protection of workers responding to such an emergency, public health agencies that are prepared to coordinate health services during and after emergencies, and participation in communications networks that can publicly and privately disseminate information in a timely and secure manner.

It requires developing and maintaining medical supplies against biological agents that may be involved in an emergency, ensuring coordination and minimizing duplication of federal, state, and local planning, preparedness, response, and investigation of a public health emergency, and enhancing the readiness of hospitals to respond to public health emergencies.

It establishes an Assistant Secretary for Public Health Emergency Preparedness in the Department of Health and Human Services to coordinate efforts on behalf of the Secretary.

It provides for the operation of a National Disaster Medical System, which is a coordinated effort to provide health and auxiliary services to respond to the needs of victims of a public health emergency or be present at locations that DHHS has determined is at risk of a public health emergency. It establishes an advance registration system of health professions volunteers for verifying credentials during public health emergencies. The NDMS now has over 5,000 civilian volunteers and 1,800 participating hospitals. 55 of the 80 NFMS groups are Disaster Medical Assistance Teams, which respond to public health emergencies in the US and internationally. 10 are Disaster Mortuary Operational Response Teams, which are responsible for identification and handling of human remains in mass-casualty situations.

It authorizes the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to construct and equip new facilities, renovate existing facilities, and upgrade security in order to better combat threats to public health and support public health activities.

It establishes a system of public health alert communications and surveillance networks between federal, state, and local public health officials, health systems, and any other appropriate entities.

It establishes a temporary National Advisory Committee on Children and Terrorism and an ''Emergency Public Information and Communications Advisory Committee', which are to submit recommendations to the DHHS.

The DHHS is to develop materials for teaching recognition and identification of potential bioweapons, to develop materials for planning by state and local governments, health care facilities, and emergency personnel to respond to an emergency, to develop programs for testing laboratory and other public health personnel for preparedness, and to disseminate this information.