[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Global Burden of Disease Study

es. HIV/AIDS reduced life expectancy in southern sub-Saharan Africa.

For most communicable causes of death both numbers of deaths and age-standardised death rates fell, while for most non-communicable causes, demographic shifts increased numbers of deaths but decreased age-standardised death rates.

Global deaths from injury increased by 10.7%, from 4.3 million deaths in 1990 to 4.8 million in 2013; but age-standardised rates declined over the same period by 21%. For some causes of more than 100,000 deaths per year in 2013, age-standardised death rates increased between 1990 and 2013, including HIV/AIDS, pancreatic cancer, atrial fibrillation and flutter, drug use disorders, diabetes, chronic kidney disease and sickle-cell anaemias. Diarrhoeal diseases, lower respiratory infections, neonatal causes and malaria remain in the top five causes of death in children younger than 5 years. The most important pathogens are rotavirus for diarrhoea and pneumococcus for lower respiratory infections.

GBD 2015 found that for the first time, annual deaths from measles had fallen below 100,000 in 2013 and 2015. It also found that the global annual rate of new HIV infections has largely stayed the same during the past 10 years.

GBD 2015 also introduced the Socio-demographic Index (SDI) as a measure of a location's socio-demographic development that takes into account average income per person, educational attainment, and total fertility rate.

Reception

The results of the Global Burden of Disease Study have been cited by The New York Times, The Washington Post, Vox, and The Atlantic.

The World Health Organization did not acknowledge the GBD 2010 estimates.

Publications
The following is a table of GBD publications .

"GBD 2010" proper means the paper was published as part of the original triple issue in The Lancet.

See also 
 Alan Lopez
 Dan Wikler
 Disease Control Priorities Project
 Dean Jamison
 Health policy
 Pharmacoeconomics
 Priority-setting in global health

References

External links
 GBD project page on the IHME website
 Global Burden of Disease Study page on The Lancet website
 Global burden of disease at WHO website
 GBD Publications from Harvard School of Public Health
 Global Burden of Disease Mental Disorders and Illicit Drug Use Expert Group at National Drug and Alcohol Research Centre (University of New South Wales, Australia)

International medical and health organizations
Public health research