[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Callan Park Hospital for the Insane

buildings and courtyards, surrounded by walls and has (hidden boundary lines behind 'sunk fences'). The complex was completed in 1885 for the government-run Callan Park Psychiatric Hospital. This complex has more recently been used by Sydney University as a campus of the Sydney College of the Arts.

Heritage listing
On 2 April 2017 the area and buildings were listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register with the following statement of significance:
{{blockquote|The site as a whole has very high levels of social significance and has special associations for the local and broader community both as an open space resource and for its cultural and aesthetic value. Kirkbride Block is significant as the collaborative work of three prominent figures in the late 19th century, James Barnet, Charles Moore and Frederick Norton Manning, as the largest remaining mental institution in NSW and as the first to be designed as a curative and therapeutic environment. The landscape design and setting of Kirkbride is vital and paramount to the design and philosophy of 'moral therapy' treatment evidenced in the intimate design of courtyards through to the long vistas over the hospital grounds and surrounding country. The landscape cannot be separated from the buildings and performs an equal and active function in the creation of the therapeutic environment. It is highly significant that much of the original fabric, character and setting for this major Victorian period design remain intact within a highly developed inner city locality.

Callan Park House (former Garry Owen House), as an impressive early and mid-Victorian residence is one of the oldest remaining houses in the district. It has strong associations with the early history of the Rozelle area. It is an important visual landmark element within the hospital.

Rozelle Hospital grounds are of historic and social significance at a state level in their association with the establishment of two hospitals, Callan Park and Broughton Hall, demonstrating two major changes in mental health in NSW. These changes, and changing ideas in garden design, are reflected in the grounds. The grounds are of historic social significance in their evidence of patient involvement.

The grounds of the former Callan Park area of Rozelle Hospital are of historic significance on a national level as an integral element of the first hospital for the insane which was designed based on moral therapy principles and built in the one campaign. They are a direct application of the moral therapy principles of psychiatric care in the landscape. They are associated with: Dr Frederick Norton Manning, Inspector General for the Insane; James Barnet, Colonial Architect; and Charles Moore, Director of the then Botanic Gardens, Sydney.|Statement of significance, New South Wales State Heritage Register.}}

The building was also listed on the (now defunct) Register of the National Estate.

In popular culture
 It Features in the 1996 Australian film Cosi
 It features in the novel Jessica by Bryce Courtenay with the lead character committed to the asylum for four years.
 The 2008 film The Last Confession of Alexander Pearce shot several scenes in the dungeons and tunnels of the old asylum. A gallows was erected in the grounds to film the execution of Alexander Pearce.
 The music video for Ricki-Lee's song "Crazy" was filmed at the hospital in 2012.
 The television series Love Child and Doctor Doctor, and the films Bliss and Ravenswood were filmed at the hospital.

Theft of antiques
A theft occurred in 2003 of thousands of medical antiques from the Callan Park Hospital for the Insane, including a human skeleton, medical and dental instruments, lithographs and furniture.

 Notable inmates and staff 

Inmates 
 J. F. Archibald, editor and publisher of The Bulletin'', who published much writing by Henry Lawson.
 William James Chidley, sex reformer and eccentric, died at Callan Park 21 December 1916.
 Louisa Lawson, Australian suffragist, (mother of poet Henry Lawson) together with her sons, Charles and Peter.
 Bea Miles, (1902–1973), eccentric and bohemian rebel

Staff 
  Harry Richard Bailey (1922–1985), psychiatrist, after doing various unethical experiments at Callan Park, between 1962 and 1979, he served as chief psychiatrist at Chelmsford Private Hospital, Pennant Hills, northwest of Sydney. Under his care, 26 Chelmsford patients died. 
 Lillian May Armfield (1884–1971), a pioneering Sydney police detective worked as a nurse at the Callan Park Hospital for the Insane (1907–1915), before embarking on her police career.
 Graeme Revell, noted film composer, was a nurse in the facility in the late 1970s.

See also

Gladesville Mental Hospital
Parramatta Female Factory

References

Attribution

External links

 
 
 Friends of Callan Park
 History of Callan Park
  Callan Park Hospital for the Insane (1878–1914) / Callan Park Mental Hospital / Callan Park Hospital (1915–1976) – State Record Archives