[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert H. Anderson

nnah from 1865-1888. As Chief of Police for the city of Savannah, he brought order and through his leadership made the force one of the most effective in the nation. After founding the Georgia Sabre Club, Anderson was elected to Captain of the Georgia Hussars from December 4, 1876, to February 1880.

General Anderson was appointed by President Rutherford B. Hayes to the Board of Visitors, US Military Academy at West Point in 1879. The Board of Visitors is a panel that includes Senators, Congressional Representatives, and presidential appointees who "shall inquire into the morale and discipline, curriculum, instruction, physical equipment, fiscal affairs, academic methods, and other matters relating to the academy that the board decides to consider."  As a member of the board, he chaired the committee for academics and discipline, and working alongside General "Fighting Joe" Wheeler helped reunite old friends, and assisted with reconciliation efforts. He was appointed again to the Board by the next president, Grover Cleveland in 1887 when they recommended bringing both the telephone and electricity to West Point.

As Police Chief, Anderson employed mostly veterans from both sides of the civil war in his force, putting his words of reconciliation into action.

Robert Houstoun Anderson died in Savannah, Georgia the age of 52 on February 8, 1888, and was buried at Bonaventure Cemetery. An estimated seven thousand people attended the unveiling of a copper and granite monument, crowned with a bust of the general at Bonaventure Cemetery in February 1894. He is buried there with his wife and children beside him.  His son Robert Houstoun Anderson Jr. also served in the U.S. Army with distinction on the Mexican border, and in China before his death due to disease in the Philippines in 1901.

Gallery

See also

 5th Georgia Cavalry
 Battle of Fort McAllister (1863)
 Republican Blues
 Georgia Hussars
 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes

References
 Brown, Russell K., Our Connection with Savannah - A History of the 1st Battalion Georgia Sharpshooters. Macon, GA: Mercer University Press, 2004. 
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Evans, Clement A., ed. Confederate Military History: A Library of Confederate States History. 12 vols. Atlanta: Confederate Publishing Company, 1899. Vol. 7 Wheeler, Joseph; Alabama. p. 392 . Retrieved January 20, 2011.
 Linedecker, Clifford L., Civil War, A-Z: The Complete Handbook of America's Bloodiest Conflict. New York: Ballantine Books, 2002. 
 Smith, Derek, Civil War Savannah. Savannah, GA: Frederic C. Beil, 
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

External links

Bio of Robert H. Anderson
US Military Academy at West Point, Board of Visitors 
Board of Visitors Report for 1887
Gravesite location Google Maps

1835 births
1888 deaths
Military personnel from Savannah, Georgia
United States Army officers
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
United States Military Academy alumni
People of Georgia (U.S. state) in the American Civil War
Southern Historical Society