[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Friedrich Kellner

August Friedrich Kellner (1 February 1885 – 4 November 1970) was a German mid-level official and diarist who worked as a justice inspector in Laubach from 1933 to 1945.

Kellner was an infantryman in a Hessian regiment during the First World War. After the war, he became a political organizer for the  Social Democratic Party of Germany, one of the leading political parties during the time of the turbulent and short-lived Weimar Republic, Germany's first period of democracy.  Kellner and his wife, Pauline, campaigned together as Social Democrats against Adolf Hitler and the Nazis.  

During World War II, working as a civil servant at a small court house, Kellner wrote a diary to record his observations of the Nazi regime.  Based on conversations and attentive reading of newspapers, he described the various crimes of that regime. He titled his work Mein Widerstand, meaning  "My Opposition". After the war Kellner served on denazification boards, and he also helped to reestablish the Social Democratic Party. In 1968, he gave his diary to his American grandson, Robert Scott Kellner, to translate into English and to bring it to the attention of the public.

Kellner's diary is voluminous consisting of 10 notebooks and all the entries were handwritten in the Old German style Sütterlin script. As a result, the amount of material and possible transcription efforts dissuaded publishers from the project for many years. German and English publishers were not interested in publishing the diary initially, until in 2005, when former US president George H. W. Bush, who had been a combat pilot in World War II, arranged for the diary to be exhibited in his presidential library, which brought the diary to the public. A Canadian film company produced a documentary about Kellner and his diary in 2007; Robert Scott Kellner edited and translated the diary, and it was eventually published in German in 2011 and in English in 2018.

Kellner explained his purpose for writing the diary:
 
"I could not fight the Nazis in the present, as they had the power to still my voice, so I decided to fight them in the future.  I would give the coming generations a weapon against any resurgence of such evil.  My eyewitness account would record the barbarous acts, and also show the way to stop them."

Biography

Family and education
 

Kellner was born in Vaihingen an der Enz, a town on the Enz River in southern Germany.  At the time of his birth, Vaihingen was part of the Kingdom of Württemberg in the German Empire. Kellner was the only child of Georg Friedrich Kellner, a baker and confectioner from the town of Arnstadt in Thuringia, and Barbara Wilhelmine Vaigle from Bietigheim-Bissingen near Ludwigsburg.  The Kellner family could trace its beginnings to when the Protestant reformer Martin Luther lived and preached not far from Arnstadt.  The Kellners were Evangelical Lutherans.

When Friedrich Kellner was four years old, his family moved to Mainz where his father became the master baker at Goebel's Confectionery (Goebels Zuckerwerk).

After completing Volksschule, primary school, Kellner had a nine-year course of non-classical study in the Oberrealschule in Mainz.  In 1902 he completed his final exams at Goetheschule, which qualified him for an apprenticeship in courthouse administration.

In 1903 he started work as a junior clerk in the Mainz courthouse, remaining there until 1933.  He advanced in the administrative ranks to justice secretary, then to court accountant, and in April 1920 to justice inspector.

Military service and marriage

From September 1907 to October 1908, Kellner fulfilled his initial military reserve duty in the 6th Infantry Company of the Leibregiments Großherzogin (3. Großherzoglich Hessisches) Nr. 117 in Mainz.  In 1911, he completed an additional two months reserve training.

When the First World War began in 1914, Kellner was called up for active duty as a sergeant and deputy-officer in the Prinz Carl Infantry Regiment (4. Großherzoglich Hessisches Regiment) Nr. 118, in Worms.  Within the first month of his return to army service, Kellner was in eight engagements in Belgium and France, including fights at Neufchâteau, Revigny-Laimont, and Rinarville, associated with what has become known as the Battle of the Frontiers.  His regiment also fought at the First Battle of the Marne from 5 to 12 September. Under a prolonged bombardment in the trenches near Reims, he was wounded and was sent to St. Rochus Hospital in Mainz to recover. He spent the remainder of the war as a quartermaster secretary for the 13th Army Corps in Frankfurt am Main.

In 1913, a few months prior to being called up for service in the war, Kellner married Pauline Preuss (19 January 1888 - 8 February 1970), who was from Mainz.  Their son, Karl Friedrich Wilhelm (a.k.a. Fred William), their only child, was born in Mainz on 29 February 1916.

Political activism