[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Peacebuilding Commission

genuinely contested manner.

The 2010 elections in Burundi were more problematic.  Allegations of fraud in an earlier local poll marred the June 2010 presidential election, in which incumbent Pierre Nkurunziza was the only candidate, after the country's opposition parties pulled out of the campaign.

According to the constituting resolutions of the PBC, the further inclusion of a situation in the PBC agenda, that is as well part of the Security Council's agenda, would need formal action of 
the members of the council. In this regard, the council has adopted the practice of issuing a letter to the president of the PBSO to request the consideration of other countries as part of the PBC agenda. Once a country-situation has been put under the consideration of the PBC, it should remain as part of the agenda for several years, or until the peacebuilding phase is considered to be completed. Currently the agenda of the PBC includes the situation in Burundi, Sierra Leone, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia and the Central African Republic.
The six cases in the agenda of the PBC and the overall progress achieved since the establishment of the Commission reveal the complexity in relying on peacebuilding efforts, as well as the coexistence of several factors within this process, including the ability of the PBC and its different Configurations to engage with the host government, as well as civil society and important stakeholders on the ground, in the conduction and implementation of coordinated actions. Besides, there are several factors largely dependent on the Security Council's substantive engagement on each situation, including the need of regular interactions with the PBC and its Configurations.

The Peacebuilding Commission's expanding role in the UN system

PGA High-level dialogue on sustainable development and sustaining peace in 2017 
In January 2017, the President of the General Assembly convened a high-level dialogue on sustainable development and sustaining peace, in which brought together the President of the General Assembly, the President of the Security Council, the President of the Economic and Social Council and the Chair of the Peacebuilding Commission for the first time to promote coordination and coherence across peace and development efforts. The Human Rights Council also considered the links between peacebuilding and human rights at its thirty-fourth session. Such initiatives have built upon the regular exchanges held by the Peacebuilding Commission with the Economic and Social Council and the Security Council.

PGA high-level meeting on peacebuilding and sustaining peace in 2018 
The President of the General Assembly will convene the High-Level Meeting on Peacebuilding and Sustaining Peace on 24 and 25 April 2018.

Briefing on the high-level event to the Peacebuilding Commission, the President of the General Assembly stressed that "Again and again, we have reaffirmed the role for the PBC as one of the UN’s most valuable tools for Sustaining Peace. This was clear, during the review of the Peacebuilding Architecture, in 2015. It was clear, through the adoption of the twin resolutions on Sustaining Peace, a year later. And, it is clear, again, from the recent report of the Secretary-General."

An Independent Look at the Peacebuilding Commission
In 2010, the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting and the Stanley Foundation sent an independent journalist to visit the PBC's four agenda countries.  The journalistic investigation suggested that the PBC's greatest strength was in its creation and execution of a political mandate for its work.  Among its weaknesses were in its open-ended funding mechanism.

See also
United Nations Secretary-General's Peacebuilding Fund
United Nations Peacebuilding Support Office

References

External links
Peacebuilding on the UN website
Peacebuilding on the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting website

United Nations General Assembly subsidiary organs
United Nations Security Council subsidiary organs
Peace organizations