[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Najma Heptulla

dor. Heptulla led a delegation to the UN Commission on Status of Women in 1997.

Heptulla has authored book on AIDS titled "AIDS: Approaches to Prevention". She has also written on human social security, sustainable development, environment, reforms for women and on ties between India and west Asia.

Heptulla faced charges of having morphed a 1958 photograph to show her along with Maulana Abul Kalam Azad in a publication of the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR). The controversial photograph was published in an ICCR publication titled 'Journey of a legend', on the life of Maulana Azad, a noted scholar and the country's first education minister. He was also the first chairperson of the ICCR and the publication came out when the council was headed by Heptulla. The photograph came with an introduction and showed a young Heptulla with the Maulana. The caption read "Najma Heptulla with Maulana Azad after her graduation". This gave the game away as official inquiries later revealed Heptulla had graduated in May 1958, whereas the Maulana had died on February 22, 1958. The publication was later withdrawn by the ICCR and its revised version is released but without the controversial photograph. Delhi High court had directed the CBI to investigate the case on a public interest litigation filed by ICCR Employees Association president.

Awards and decorations

State honours
:
 Recipient of the Order of Friendship (2019)

Awards
Recipient of the Outstanding Parliamentarian Award for the year 2013

References

External links
 Detailed Profile

1940 births
Living people
Indian vice-presidential candidates
Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha
Vikram University alumni
Rajya Sabha members from Maharashtra
Dawoodi Bohras
Indian Ismailis
Gujarati people
Indian Shia Muslims
Indian people of Arab descent
Hashemite people
Rajya Sabha members from Rajasthan
Rajya Sabha members from Madhya Pradesh
People from Bhopal
21st-century Indian Muslims
Women in Madhya Pradesh politics
Bharatiya Janata Party politicians from Madhya Pradesh
Narendra Modi ministry
Ministers of Minority Affairs
Women members of the Cabinet of India
20th-century Indian women politicians
20th-century Indian politicians
21st-century Indian women politicians
21st-century Indian politicians
Rajya Sabha members from the Bharatiya Janata Party
Women members of the Rajya Sabha
Governors of Manipur
Women state governors of India