[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dark Frontier

"Dark Frontier" is a feature length episode of Star Trek: Voyager, the 15th and 16th episodes of the fifth season. This episode originally aired as a feature-length episode that was later broken up into two parts for reruns in syndication. Actress Susanna Thompson guest stars alongside the cast of this Star Trek television show as the Borg queen. The crew of a spacecraft trying to get back to Earth once again encounter a race of cybernetic organisms bent on Galactic domination. Ex-Borg character Seven of Nine (played by Jeri Ryan) struggles with her past as she rediscovers her humanity aboard the spacecraft.

The episode was written by Brannon Braga and Joe Menosky, with direction by Cliff Bole and Terry Windell. It aired on UPN on February 17, 1999.

"Dark Frontier" won an Emmy award for Outstanding Special Visual Effects for a Series.

Overview

In this episode, the crew of Starfleet's USS Voyager encounter the Borg "queen", a character introduced in the 1996 film Star Trek: First Contact. "Dark Frontier" goes deeper into the Borg story via Seven of Nine's human family, the Hansens.

When split into two parts, "Dark Frontier, Part I" was directed by Cliff Bole, and "Dark Frontier, Part II" was directed by Terry Windell. It was written by Brannon Braga and Joe Menosky. Although aired a single feature, each section was shot on its own production schedule with a different director.

This episode is noted for a heist plot device, in which Voyager plans to make off with Borg tech, and also for expanding the character story of Seven of Nine. In this episode, the role of the Borg Queen was played by Susanna Thompson rather than Alice Krige, who had played the role in the 1996 film Star Trek: First Contact. Thompson would return in this role for "Unimatrix Zero", with Krige reprising the role for the series finale "Endgame".

Seven of Nine's parents Magnus and Erin, are played by Kirk Baily and Laura Stepp, and a young Seven is played by Katelin Peterson.

The episode features VFX sequences with USS Voyager, the Delta Flyer, and Borg Cubes.

The episode had original music written by David Bell.

The episode originally aired on UPN on February 17, 1999. However, it has two episode numbers 211 and 212 for the two part version.

Plot
On first airing, "Dark Frontier" aired as a single-length feature.

Part I
After Voyager manages to destroy a Borg probe by beaming a photon torpedo aboard, Seven of Nine finds data nodes filled with tactical information among the debris. With it they locate a heavily damaged sphere nearby, and Captain Janeway decides to plan a "heist" – invade the Borg vessel while its defenses are down and take its transwarp coil, which will shave about 20 years off Voyagers journey. The crew will create a diversion, then send an away team in to steal the technology. Hoping to find information that will give them a tactical edge, Janeway assigns Seven to study her parents' field notes that Voyager recovered from the Raven.

Once she begins studying her parents' logs, Seven remembers their encounters with the Borg. She was only a small girl at the time, but she vividly recalls their fascination with the mysterious Collective. Meanwhile, Voyager catches up with the sphere. The sphere's shields and transwarp drive will be off-line for the next 72 hours, allowing the crew only a short time to plan and execute the mission.

During a holographic simulation, Janeway and the others practice their mission down to the second. They have only two minutes to find and extract the transwarp coil after the sensor grid aboard the Borg sphere is disabled. Their simulated mission fails when Janeway and her team take too long and the Borg regenerate their sensor grid and detect the intrusion.  After leaving the holodeck, Seven is unsettled by her close proximity to the Borg, even if it was not real. When Naomi Wildman begins asking her questions about the Collective, Seven hallucinates that the Borg have accessed her neural transceiver and know about Janeway's plan.

Further research of her parents' mission lead Seven to conclude her parents underestimated the Borg, which eventually led to their assimilation. It was during this research that Seven discovered the Hansens' description of a bio-damper in their notes, which they used to move around undetected in a Borg vessel while conducting their field research. The Voyager team replicates the technology for use in their raid on the Borg sphere. Asserting that she is willing to risk her own well-being for the sake of the crew, Seven persuades Janeway to assign her to the away team despite the Captain's reservations.