[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dagestan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic

bility to create unity among the various peoples of Dagestan, he was able to successfully conduct over two decades of Guerilla warfare against the Tsarist Russian army.

Tsarist Russia spent decades in its conquest of the Caucasus region and the Caucasian war would not come to a full end until 1859.

After the 1877 Dagestani Uprising, the Tsarist government deported many Dagestanis to the Russian Interior as a collective punishment.

Revolution Era 
The Tsarist Russian government often sent Cossacks and ethnically Russian settlers to pacify the peoples of Dagestan and other regions in the North Caucasus, however this often had the opposite effect. Cossacks and Russian land owners received the most arable land in the region, leaving indigenous Dagestani farmers with less available land in an already competitive region in regards to agriculture. This put a large wedge in to the relationship between the native peoples of Dagestan and the new Russian settlers.

Discontent with the Tsarist government grew after the Russian governor Illarion Vorontsov-Dashkov attempted to instate the Russian language as the language of administration in rural Dagestan. This culminated in around 6,000 Dagestani protestors marching on the then local capital of Temir-Khan-Shurinsky to show their discontent in 1914, mere weeks before the beginning of World War One.

Early Dagestani Bolshevik, Said Gabiev, was born to a Dagestani family who had suffered from deportation to the Russian Interior after an 1877 Dagestani uprising. Although his family was allowed to return to Dagestan, Gabiev was familiar with his family's stories of suffering at the hand of the Tsarist government. He was further radicalized by his secular education at the Stavropol Gymnasium. After his graduation, he moved to St.Petersburg, where he began writing a paper known as "The Dawn of Dagestan." This paper was written not only in Russian, but in the Dagestani languages of Lak and Lezgin. Ullubii Buinaskii was another Dagestani Bolshevik radicalized by secular education. Although originally from Dagestan, he received his education at Moscow University. Both Gabiev and Buinaskii quickly fell in with the rising Bolshevik underground in their respective cities, and would both eventually become pivotal members of their own local revolutionary movements. Due to this, they were often on the run from Tsarist authorities, and would relocate as need be to avoid arrest.

Early Soviet Era 
The capital of Dagestan, Makhachkala, was originally named Port Petrovsk during the Tsarist period. However, during the early Soviet period in 1921 it was renamed to Makhachkala.

The 1917 revolution and Russian Civil War brought many Dagestani bolsheviks who had studied in the big cities of the Russian empire back home, including Gabiev and Buinaskii. This would lead to Buinaskii's death in 1919 as a result of participation in the civil war.

The Soviet government promoted secular education, meaning the traditionally Islamic education which prevailed in Dagestan was under threat. Beginning in 1938, Russian language instruction in non-Russian language schools became mandatory. Education in Russian and titular languages was mandatory, but in a region as diverse as Dagestan not all languages were taught and many Indigenous Dagestani languages were left with fewer speakers.

The early Soviet period in Dagestan not only saw forced secularization from the outside at the hands of the Soviet government, but also internally led by homegrown secular Dagestani Islamic scholars. Ali Kaiaev was a Cairo educated Dagestani Islamic leader who became a prominent figure in early Soviet Dagestan. Kaiaev's role as a reformer began from 1913-1916 when he edited a newspaper known as "The Rose of Dagestan," which promoted religious and political reform inside of Dagestan. After the 1917 Revolution and Russian Civil War, he was in charge of a Madrasa in his home village of Kumukh. His school provided education in Islamic religious studies, as well as different secular fields of science and math, instruction was also carried out in the Lak language.  Although he was initially protected from the purges of the Stalin era due to his place as a chairman on a Soviet sharia court, he was eventually arrested and deported to Kazakhstan, where he would spend the remaining years of his life.