[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mainz Microtron

ayers of coaxial multi-wire proportional chambers and a barrel of 24 scintillation 
counters surrounding the target are installed inside the cavity of the Crystal Ball sphere. 
A frozen-spin target for polarized protons and deuterons is of particular importance for 
studying spin degrees of freedom.

The main physics goals are:
 Protons and neutrons are excited when they absorb a photon. If the photon energy is sufficiently high, mesons are emitted. The probabilities for such  meson production reactions as well as their angular and spin dependence incorporate indispensable information about nucleon excited states and meson-nucleon dynamics. 
 Electric and magnetic polarizabilities are well known concepts in classical physics, which describe the influence of static electric and magnetic fields on composite systems. In case of protons and neutrons scalar and spin-dependent polarizabilities can be measured in low energy Compton scattering.  
 At MAMI  and  mesons are photoproduced with high rate. With the Crystal Ball detector, decay modes of these mesons can be studied in an almost background-free environment. 
 The charge distributions inside nuclei has been measured with high accuracy in electron scattering experiments. Information about the matter distribution can be obtained from the coherent photoinduced production of pions from nuclei, where photon and pion interact coherently with all protons and neutrons inside a nucleus.

A publication database can be found here.

Single spin asymmetries in elastic electron scattering

The A4 Collaboration measures small asymmetries in the cross-section of elastic scattering 
of polarized electrons off an unpolarized target, basically hydrogen or deuterium. 
The momentum transfers achieved either in forward angle- or backward 
angle-configuration of the detector vary between 0.1 GeV²/c² and 0.6 GeV²/c². 
A high-power liquid hydrogen target of 10 cm or 20 cm length and a polarized electron beam of I = 20 µA lead 
to luminosities in the order of  The scattered electrons are measured by a total 
absorbing, segmented lead fluoride calorimeter, which deals with event rates of about 100 MHz. 
The degree of polarization of the electron beam is measured by a laser Compton backscatter 
polarimeter simultaneously with to the main experiment. 
 
There are two main physics goals:
Parity violating electron scattering asymmetries are measured with a longitudinally polarized electron beam. Using input from the Standard Model of Particle Physics, the contribution of strange sea-quarks to the electric and magnetic form factors of the nucleon are determined. 
Using a transversely polarized electron beam, the observed asymmetries arise at leading order from the interference of the one- and the two-photon-exchange amplitude. These asymmetries are sensitive to excited intermediate states of the nucleon. The imaginary part of the two-photon exchange amplitude can be determined.

A list of publications can be found here  here.

Brilliant X-ray radiation

The X1 Collaboration at MAMI develops brilliant novel radiation sources and explores their 
potential for applications. The electromagnetic spectrum extends from the far-infrared into the 
hard X-ray range. "Brilliant" means that a large number of photons is emitted as a sharp bundle 
from a small spot. At MAMI, beam spots with a diameter down to the sub-micron 
range are possible. The production mechanisms which have been explored include Smith-Purcell radiation in the 
infrared and optical spectral range, undulator radiation in the soft X-ray range as well as 
channeling radiation, parametric X-radiation and transition radiation in the hard X-ray range.
A list of publications can be found here.

Further Information and Reading

Homepage of the Nuclear Physics Institute at the Mainz University.

References 

Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz
Particle physics facilities