[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# L'Est Républicain

and a new editorial project. The newspaper was structured around three pillars: proximity to events, decryption of current events and investigation; and divided into five spaces: Town and local, Region, Sports, France-World, East and vous (everyday life). The cost of this change was 2 million euros.

Acquisition by Crédit Mutuel
In October 2010, the Banque Fédérative du Crédit Mutuel (BFCM) bought the 29% held by the Hersant Media group in the Est Républicain group. Already owner of a share of the capital, it now owned 48% of the Eastern Republican group. The following month, it bought 43% of shares of CEO Gérard Lignac and thus took control of the group, which was integrated into the EBRA group. On 12 July 2011 the Autorité de la concurrence authorized the takeover of the Est Républicain group by Crédit Mutuel. In October 2011, Pierre Wicker became the joint general manager of L'Est Républicain, Le Républicain Lorrain and Vosges Matin.

On 1 October 2013 the Franche-Comté daily , owned by L'Alsace, was sold to L'Est Républicain. It was a question of putting an end to a "sterile and unproductive" competition between the two titles, properties of the EBRA group. The 40 employees of Le Pays joined the 73 journalists of L'Est Républicain in Franche-Comté, and an edition of L'Est Républicain-Le Pays was produced.

On 16 November 2016 a new tabloid format was created. The 64-page journal was divided into two notebooks: one general and one local. This new format required 9 months to be completed and cost €500,000 to adapt the presses. The newspaper then employed 650 people and achieved a turnover of nearly 81 million euros. A new version of the website was planned for January 2017.

Circulation

Headquarters

The first headquarters of L'Est Républicain were located on rue Saint-Dizier, in the city center of Nancy.

In March 1913, the head office was transferred to a building located at the corner of avenue Foch and boulevard Joffre, opposite the Magasins Réunis, not far from the station. It was designed by the French architect Pierre Le Bourgeois in the style of the École de Nancy, similar to Art Nouveau. An underground used to connect this building to the one where the presses and linotypes were located and which was located a few dozen meters away, at the corner of the  and .

Since 1985, the head office is located at rue Théophraste-Renaudot in Houdemont, in the suburbs of Nancy. Its construction was started in June 1979.

See also
 List of newspapers in France

References

External links
  – L'Est Républicain 

1889 establishments in France
Mass media in Nancy, France
Daily newspapers published in France
Publications established in 1889