[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Confederation of Indian Industry

The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) is a non-governmental trade association and advocacy group headquartered in New Delhi, India, founded in 1895.

CII engages business, political, academic, and other leaders of society to shape global, regional, and industry agendas. It is a membership-based organisation.

CII has been appointed as the B20 India Secretariat by the Government of India to lead the B20 India process during India's G20 Presidency in 2023.

History

The journey of CII began in 1895, when 5 engineering firms - Martin & Company, Burn & Company, John King & Company, Jessop & Company, and Turner Morrison & Company – decided to form the Engineering and Iron Trades Association (EITA). To promote the interests of Indian manufacturers, EITA was renamed as Indian Engineering Association (IEA) in 1912. In 1942, the Engineering Association of India (EAI) was founded to promote the interests of small and medium engineering firms. In 1974, EAI merged with IEA and formed the Association of Indian Engineering Industry (AIEI) which in 1986 became the Confederation of Engineering Industry (CEI). The CEI in 1991, became the present Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).

During the 1980s, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi, then Prime Minister of India played a critical role in galvanising the Association of Indian Engineering Industry (AIEI) into the Confederation of Indian Industry - a national organisation that would represent the interests of Indian industry. He considered AIEI more professional & modern and consulted it on important policy matters.

In 1998, the then Prime Minister, Mr Atal Bihari Vajpayee while addressing CII's National Conference & Annual Session urged to reform the government, industry and the common citizen. This was his first address to any industry association as the Prime Minister. Mr Vajpayee reaffirmed the government's commitment to reforms and underscored the importance of sustainable economic growth.

In 2007, the then Indian Prime Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh at CII Annual Session, invited corporate India to be a partner in making a more humane and just society where he emphasised on Ten-Point Social Charter for inclusive growth.

In 2020, Indian Prime Minister, Narendra Modi gave the plenary speech at CII's 125th Annual Session. He focused on building an Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) and bringing India back on the path of rapid development.

Organisation
CII is a body registered under Societies Registration Act, 1860 of India. The highest governing body of CII is the CII National Council, composed of leading industry heads and experts.

Leadership
For 2023–24, Mr R Dinesh, Executive Vice Chairman, TVS Supply Chain Solutions Ltd is the President of CII, Mr Sanjiv Puri, Chairman & Managing Director, ITC Limited is the President Designate of CII, and Mr Rajiv Memani, Chairman – India Region and Chairman, Emerging Markets Committee, Ernst & Young LLP is the Vice President of CII. Mr Chandrajit Banerjee is the Director General of CII since May 2008.

Sanjiv Bajaj, Chairman & Managing Director of Bajaj Finserv Limited was the President of CII for the year 2022-23. T. V. Narendran CEO & Managing Director of Tata Steel Limited was the President, CII for the year 2021–22.

Membership
CII has direct membership of over 9000 organisations and an indirect membership of over 3,00,000, from around 294 national and regional sectoral associations.

Activities

Policy Advocacy
CII has over 500 ‘Intellectual Groups’ — councils, committees, task forces, and working groups among others — working at the national and regional levels, across industry sectors. These groups give shape to and articulate member concerns to government policymakers, regulators, think tanks etc. They work pro-actively  with the government to formulate policies that would empower businesses.

CII has been a catalyst of change in India's economic policy reforms. CII played a very important role during economic liberalisation in 1991 which knocked down the high walls of protection between Indian industry and the rest of the world.

CII actively engages with central and state governments at various levels on issues facing Indian industry and society and recommends policies conducive to the development of India.

To stimulate foreign investment into India and promote industrial activities, CII partners with Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). CII is a joint venture partner in Invest India, a National Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency, established by DPIIT.