[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sam DeStefano

took the man to his house and forced the man and his own wife to have sex with each other, all for some real or imagined grievance that DeStefano had with his wife. Afterward, the man was so mortified that he would be accused of rape, he went to the nearest police station and reported the incident.

One informant who was close to DeStefano described him as a highly emotional, temperamental individual, extremely egotistical and concerned with his personal appearance. The walls of his home were lined with mirrors and as DeStefano talked to people, he constantly watched his reflection in the mirrors as he walked across the room. He was described as being of such a temperament that he could be crying at one moment and laughing the very next. DeStefano would often state that if he had not been framed for rape at age 17, he would have become President of the United States.

Later life
In 1965, DeStefano was convicted of conspiracy and sentenced to three to five years in prison. On February 22, 1972, DeStefano was sentenced to three and one half years in prison for threatening the life of a witness, mobster turned informant Charles Crimaldi, an accomplice in the Foreman murder. DeStefano had encountered Crimaldi in the elevator of the Chicago Dirksen Federal Building and threatened him. Later in 1972, DeStefano was indicted on federal charges for illegal possession of firearms by a felon.

DeStefano and his associates were eventually indicted for the Foreman murder. As in his previous trials, DeStefano had raised a large amount of public interest with his bizarre behavior. He made demands to represent himself, dressed in pajamas, shouted through bullhorns, and rambled incoherently. DeStefano then started displaying similar behavior in the Foreman trial. The Outfit bosses began to worry DeStefano was not only jeopardizing his own defense, but also the defenses of his other crew members. In a secret meeting, the boss of the Chicago Outfit, Tony Accardo, gave DeStefano's crew permission to kill him.

On April 14, 1973, it was presumed that DeStefano was to have met with his brother, Mario Anthony DeStefano, and associate Tony Spilotro in the garage of his Galewood neighborhood home, in the 1600 block of North Sayre Avenue. Before the meeting began, Spilotro allegedly entered the lot and shot DeStefano twice with a shotgun, hitting him in the chest and tearing his left arm off at the elbow, instantly killing him. The murderer was never brought to trial.

DeStefano was buried at Queen of Heaven Cemetery in Hillside, Illinois.

See also
 List of organized crime killings in Illinois

References

Bibliography
Devito, Carlo. Encyclopedia of International Organized Crime. New York: Facts On File, Inc., 2005. 
Kelly, Robert J. Encyclopedia of Organized Crime in the United States. Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press, 2000. 
Sifakis, Carl. The Mafia Encyclopedia. New York: Da Capo Press, 2005. 
Dark, Tony.  A Mob of His Own: Samuel Mad Sam DeStefano and the Chicago Mob's Juice Rackets, H.H. Productions, Chicago, 2008. 
McCluskie, Norma. "Decade of Fear", Lulu.com, LaVergne, Tennessee, 2010.

Further reading
A Report on Chicago Crime Chicago: Chicago Crime Commission Reports, 1954-1968.
Chiocca, Olindo Romeo. Mobsters and Thugs: Quotes from the Underworld. Toronto: Guernica Editions, 2000.

External links
"Mad Sam" DeStefano: The Mob's Marquis de Sade (Part 1) by Allan May
The Free Information Society - Sam DeStefano Biography  by Jonathan Dunder
FindAGrave.com - Sam "Mad Sam" DeStefano 
Mad Sam by John William Tuohy

1909 births
1973 deaths
20th-century American criminals
American male criminals
American Satanists
Chicago Outfit mobsters
Deaths by firearm in Illinois
Fratricides
Mafia hitmen
Male murder victims
Murdered American gangsters of Italian descent
People from Herrin, Illinois
People from Streator, Illinois
People murdered by the Chicago Outfit
People murdered in Illinois
Torture in the United States