[Source: PubMed]

5. J Res Adolesc. 2025 Jun;35(2):e70041. doi: 10.1111/jora.70041.

Adolescents during wartime: Vulnerability-based profiles.

Olinover M(1), Hamama L(1).

Author information:
(1)Bob Shapell School of Social Work, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv-Yafo, 
Israel.

Adolescents in war zones face the dual burden of normative developmental 
challenges and stressors from their proximity to active conflict, raising 
critical questions about their vulnerability during wartime. The aim of the 
current study was to identify distinct vulnerability profiles among Israeli 
adolescents (ages 11-18) during Israel's ongoing Swords of Iron War. Drawing on 
Hobfoll's conservation of resources theory, we assessed protective factors 
(positive affect, resilience, and perceived social support) and one risk factor 
(war-related adjustment disorder symptoms). Differences in profiles were also 
examined in relation to demographic variables and war impact variables (house 
damage, displacement, and injury). In this quantitative, cross-sectional study, 
we utilized self-report questionnaires from 305 Jewish Israeli adolescents (ages 
11-18). LatentGold was employed to conduct a three-step latent profile analysis. 
Wald tests were used to explore differences between the various adolescent 
profiles in terms of protective and risk factors, as well as to assess 
associations with distal variables. Three distinct vulnerability profiles were 
identified: low, moderate, and high. Adolescents in the low-vulnerability group 
were younger, lived farther from conflict borders, experienced fewer war-related 
adjustment disorder symptoms, and reported higher levels of positive affect, 
resilience, and perceived social support. Among these factors, perceived social 
support emerged as the most sensitive variable differentiating profiles. These 
findings highlight the importance of internal and external resources in 
mitigating vulnerability and fostering resilience among adolescents in 
conflict-affected regions. The categorization into vulnerability levels enables 
faster identification of at-risk adolescents and more efficient resource 
allocation. Given the critical role of social support, clinicians should 
prioritize interventions that enhance such support to promote adolescents' 
well-being during wartime.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Research on Adolescence published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of Society for Research on Adolescence.

DOI: 10.1111/jora.70041
PMCID: PMC12125423
PMID: 40448272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing or potential 
conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article.