[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 24]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ass again in a great
procession, a motley company--some like emperors, crowned and richly
dowered, with the sound of trumpets and the tramping of many obsequious
feet; and others like beggars, despoiled and hungry, trudging along a
dusty high road, or like grey pilgrims bound, with bleeding feet, for a
far-off shrine."

They entered a little beech-wood, whose leaves made a light of their
own, strange and mystical.

"Yours must have been a wonderful life!" said Hadria.

"Yes, I have seen and felt many things," answered Miss Du Prel, stirred
by the intoxication of the motion and the wind and the sunlight, "life
has been to me a series of intense emotions, as it will be to you, I
fear----"

"You fear?" said Hadria.

"Yes; for that means suffering. If you feel, you are at the mercy of all
things. Every wind that blows uses you as an Æolian harp."

"That must be charming, at least for those who live in your
neighbourhood," said Hadria.

"No; for often the harp rings false. Its strings get loosened; one hangs
slack and jars, and where then is your harmony?"

"One would run the risk of many things rather than let one's strings lie
dumb," said Hadria.

"What a dangerous temperament you have!" cried Valeria, looking round at
the glowing face beside her.

"I must take my risks," said Hadria.

"I doubt if you know what risks there are."

"Then I must find out," she answered.

"One plays with fire so recklessly before one has been burnt."

Hadria was silent. The words sounded ominous.

"Will can do so much," she said at length. "Do you believe in the power
of the human will to break the back of circumstance?"

"Oh, yes; but the effort expended in breaking its back sometimes leaves
one prone, with a victory that arrives ironically too late. However I
don't wish to discourage you. There is no doubt that human will has
triumphed over everything--but death."

Again the sound of the pony's hoofs sounded through the silence, in a
cheerful trot upon the white roads. They were traversing an open, breezy
country, chequered with wooded hollows, where generally a village sought
shelter from the winds. And these patches of foliage were golden and red
in the meditative autumn sunshine, which seemed as if it were a little
sad at the thought of parting with the old earth for the coming winter.

"I think the impossible lesson to learn would be renouncement," said
Hadria. "I cannot conceive how anyone could say to himself, while he had
longings and life still in him, 'I will give up this that I might have
learnt; I will stop short here where I might press forward; I will allow
this or that to curtail me and rob me of my possible experience.'"

"Well, I confess that has been my feeling too, though I admire the
spirit that can renounce."

"Admire? Oh, yes, perhaps; though I am not so sure that the submissive
nature has not been too much glorified--in theory. Nobody pays much
attention to it in practice, by the way."

Miss Du Prel laughed. "What an observant young woman you are."

"Renunciation is always preached to girls, you know," said
Hadria--"preached to them when as yet they have nothing more than a
rattle and a rag-doll to renounce. And later, when they set about the
business of their life, and resign their liberty, their talents, their
health, their opportunity, their beauty (if they have it), then people
gradually fall away from the despoiled and obedient being, and flock
round the still unchastened creature who retains what the gods have
given her, and asks for more."

"I fear you are indeed a still unchastened creature!"

"Certainly; there is no encouragement to chasten oneself. People don't
stand by the docile members of Society. They commend their saints, but
they drink to their sinners."

Miss Du Prel smiled.

"It is true," she admitted. "A woman must not renounce too much if she
desires to retain her influence."

"_Pas trop de zèle_," Hadria quoted.

"There is something truly unmanageable about you, my dear!" cried
Valeria, much amused. "Well, I too have had just that sort of instinct,
just that imperious demand, just that impatience of restraint. I too
regarded myself and my powers as mine to use as I would, responsible
only to my own conscience. I decided to have freedom though the heavens
should fall. I was unfitted by temperament to face the world, but I was
equally unfitted to pay the price for protection--the blackmail that
society levies on a woman: surrender of body and of soul. What could one
expect, in such a case, but disaster? I often envy now the simple-minded
woman who pays her price and has her reward--such as it is."

"Ah! such as it is!" echoed Hadria.

"Who was it said, the other day, that she thought a wise woman always
took things as they were, and made the best of them?"

"Some dull spirit."

"And yet a practical spirit."

"I am quite sure," said Hadria, "that the stokers of hell are pract