[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sotho phonology

abic l (L).
No codas are allowed.

The possible syllables are:
V ho etsa ('to do') 
CV fi! ('ideophone of sudden darkness') 
CwV ho tswa ('to emerge') 
AV  wena ('you') 
N nna ('I') 
L lebollo ('circumcision rite') 
Note that heterorganic compounds count as single consonants, not consonant clusters.

Additionally, the following phonotactic restrictions apply:
A consonant may not be followed by the palatal approximant  (i.e. C+y is not a valid onset).
Neither the labio-velar approximant  nor a labialized consonant may  be followed by a back vowel at any time.

Syllabic l occurs only due to a vowel being elided between two ls:
  *molelo (Proto-Bantu *mu-dido) >  mollo ('fire') (cf Setswana molelo, isiZulu umlilo)
  *ho lela (Proto-Bantu *-dida) >  ho lla ('to cry') (cf Setswana go lela, isiXhosa ukulila, Tshivenda u lila)
 isiZulu ukuphuma ('to emerge') > ukuphumelela ('to succeed') > Sesotho  ho phomella

There are no contrastive long vowels in Sesotho, the rule being that juxtaposed vowels form separate syllables (which may sound like long vowels with undulating tones during natural fast speech). Originally there might have been a consonant between vowels which was eventually elided that prevented coalescence or other phonological processes (Proto-Bantu *g, and sometimes *j).

Other Bantu languages have rules against vowel juxtaposition, often inserting an intermediate approximant if necessary.
 Sesotho  Gauteng ('Gauteng') > isiXhosa Erhawudeni

Phonological processes

Vowels and consonants very often influence one another resulting in predictable sound changes. Most of these changes are either vowels changing vowels, nasals changing consonants, or approximants changing consonants. The sound changes are nasalization, palatalization, alveolarization, velarization, vowel elision, vowel raising, and labialization. Sesotho nasalization and vowel-raising are extra-strange since, unlike most processes in most languages, they actually decrease the sonority of the phonemes.Nasalization (alternatively Nasal permutation or Strengthening) is a process in Bantu languages by which, in certain circumstances, a prefixed nasal becomes assimilated to a succeeding consonant and causes changes in the form of the phone to which it is prefixed. In the Sesotho language series of articles it is indicated by .

In Sesotho it is a fortition process and usually occurs in the formation of class 9 and 10 nouns, in the use of the objectival concord of the first person singular, in the use of the adjectival and enumerative concords of some noun classes, and in the forming of reflexive verbs (with the reflexive prefix).

Very roughly speaking, voiced consonants become devoiced and fricatives (except  ) lose their fricative quality.

Vowels and the approximant  get a  in front of them
Voiced stops become ejective:
  >  
  >  
Fricatives become aspirated:
  > 
  > 
  > 
   > 
  >  (except with adjectives)
 becomes 
 becomes 

The syllabic nasal causing the change is usually dropped, except for monosyllabic stems and the first person objectival concord. Reflexive verbs don't show a nasal.

  ho araba ('to answer') >  karabo ('response'),  ho nkaraba ('to answer me'), and  ho ikaraba ('to answer oneself')
  ho fa ('to give') >  mpho ('gift'),  ho mpha ('to give me'), and  ho ipha ('to give oneself')

Other changes may occur due to contractions in verb derivations:
  ho bona ('to see') >  ho bontsha ('to cause to see') (causative  -bon- +  -isa)Nasal homogeneity consists of two points:
When a consonant is preceded by a (visible or invisible) nasal it will undergo nasalization, if it supports it.
When a nasal is immediately followed by another consonant with no vowel betwixt them, the nasal will change to a nasal in the same approximate position as the following consonant, after the consonant has undergone nasal permutation. If the consonant is already a nasal then the previous nasal will simply change to the same.Palatalization is a process in certain Bantu languages where a consonant becomes a palatal consonant.

In Sesotho it usually occurs with the short form of passive verbs and the diminutives of nouns, adjectives, and relatives.

Labials:
  >  / 
  >  / 
  >  / 
  >  / 
Alveolars:
  > 
  > 
  > 
The nasals become :
 , , and  > 

For example:
  ho lefa ('to pay') >  ho lefjwa /  ho leshwa ('to be paid')Alveolarization is a process whereby a consonant becomes an alveolar consonant. It occurs in noun diminutives, the diminutives of colour adjectives, and in the pronouns and concords of noun classes with a  di- or  di[N]- prefix. This results in either  or .

, , and  become 
, , and  become 

Examples:
  -kgwadi ('black with white spots') >  -kgwatsana (diminutive)
  diketso tsa hao ('your actions')

Other changes may occur due to phonological interactions in verbal derivatives:
  ho botsa ('to ask') >  ho botsetsa ('to ask on behalf of') (applied  -bots- +  -ela)