[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Battle of Bint Jbeil

ael's Prime Minister Ehud Olmert was very disappointed at the army's lack of "results" in Bint Jbeil but did not question the courage of the Israeli soldiers. "If Maroun al-Ras had looked different, if Bint Jbail had looked different, it could be that we would not have reached the point we reached."

The 51st Golani Battalion was left scarred by the traumatic experience in Bint Jbeil. Battalion 51 has a dark history in Lebanon, losing 9 men in three days in two incidents in October 1997. It had suffered 8 dead, including several officers, and 20 wounded. Many of the survivors suffered from shell-shock or post traumatic stress syndrome. Five years later some would still suffer from concentration problems, nightmares and impatience or finding it difficult to cope with their daily lives. Soldiers complained that their mental needs were ignored by their officers. Their battalion commander, Lt.-Col. Asor, was appointed commander on the Egoz unit. He was replaced by an officer from outside the Golani Brigade, who had no understanding for old Golani traditions. When the battalion commander did not show up at a memorial service for the eight Golani dead from the Lebanon war a rebellion broke out. About a hundred soldiers rose up and just walked out of the Tze'elim training base outside Beer Sheva. This was one of the largest "revolts" in the history of the IDF. One of the leaders of the "Golani rebellion" was St.-Sgt. Shiran Amsili, the hero from the clash in the olive grove who received a medal for his part in the battle. He was sent to jail for two months for his involvement in the protest. Another 10 soldiers were sent to jail for one or two months and seven other soldiers were confined to their base for a month.

Civilian casualties
The town was subjected to intensive artillery shelling throughout the war and the destruction of buildings and other civilian infrastructure was widespread. Israeli journalist Ron Ben Yishai visited Bint Jbeil after the war and observed that "only several houses in the big town are still standing." According to data from UNDP 2,512 housing units in the Bint Jbeil district were destroyed and another 1,908 were damaged. Fully 14,799 buildings were "impacted", representing 87 percent of all buildings in the district.

According to Lebanese sources 27 civilians were killed in Aynata while 18 civilians were killed in Bint Jbeil. and 41 civilians were killed in Aytaroun. The Lebanese Government prepared a report for the UN Human Rights Council about what it termed "collective massacres" committed by the Israeli army in the 2006 war. The list contained three incidents concerning what the Lebanese government called civilian victims in the village of Aytaroun:
12 July: Houses of Ali and Hassan Al-Akhrass (11 killed)
17 July: Houses of Mohammed and Hassan Awada (13 killed)
19 July: Convoy fleeing village (4 killed)

Combat fatalities

Israeli fatalities
24 July 2006
 Col. Tzvi Luft (Helicopter pilot), 42, of Hogla
 1st Lt. Tom Farkash (Helicopter pilot), 23, of Caesarea
 2nd Lt. Lotan Slavin (Bat. 52 of the 401st Armored Brigade), 21, of Hatzeva
 St.-Sgt. Kobi Smileg (Bat. 52 of the 401st Armored Brigade), 20, of Rehovot
26 July 2006
 Maj. Roi Klein (Bat. 51 of the Golani Brigade), 31, of Eli
 Lt. Amihai Merhavia (Bat. 51 of the Golani Brigade), 24, of Eli
 Lt. Alexander Shwartzman (Bat. 51 of the Golani Brigade), 24, of Akko
 Sgt. Shimon Adega (Bat. 51 of the Golani Brigade), 21, of Kiryat Gat
 St.-Sgt. Idan Cohen (Bat. 51 of the Golani Brigade), 21, of Tel Aviv
 St.-Sgt. Shimon Dahan (Bat. 51 of the Golani Brigade), 20, of Ashdod
 Cpl. Ohad Klausner (Bat. 51 of the Golani Brigade), 20, of Bet Horon
 Cpl. Assaf Namer, 27 (Bat. 51 of the Golani Brigade), of Kiryat Yam
7 August 2006
 Maj.(res.) Yotam Lotan (847th Armoured Brigade), 33, of Beit Hashita
 St.-Sgt.(res.) Noam Meirson (847th Armoured Brigade), 23, of Jerusalem
 St.-Sgt. Moshe (Malko) Ambao (Paratroopers), 22, of Lod
8 August 2006
 St.-Sgt. Oren Lifschitz (Paratroopers Recon. Bat.), 21, of Gazit
 St.-Sgt. Moran Cohen (Paratroopers Recon. Bat.), 21, of Ashdot Ya'akov

Hezbollah fatalities

Hizbullah has not published a list of casualtis from the battle of Bint Jbeil. The following lists refer to Bint Jbeil and Aynata locals who died as Hizbullah fighters in the 2006 Lebanon war. Some of them probably did not die in the battle of Bint Jbeil but the large majority did. Some Bint jbeil locals however, died elsewhere in South Lebanon, especially in the Battle of Maroun al-Ras. Commander Rani Bazzi, who participated in the battle of Bint Jbeil, left the area when the IDF withdrew and fell in  the Battle of al-Ghandouriya. On the other hand, some non-locals died in Bint Jbeil.