[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Emmanuel Gaillard

tion (ICSID), Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) and Anti-Suits Injunctions.
Many of his books and articles are cited as references on these topics (listed below). 

He was also a proponent of the existence of an autonomous arbitral legal order, arising out of but distinct from the laws of national States.

He is often referred to as a primary author having written in all fields of international arbitration. He has commented on the ICSID case law since 1987 and published in 2004 the first book of commentary of ICSID case law.  One of his most well-known works is his seminal treatise on international arbitration, 'Fouchard Gaillard Goldman on International Commercial Arbitration', published in 1999 and frequently referred to by practitioner academics and the national courts worldwide. In 2008, he published the first work on the theory of international arbitration, based on a course he taught in 2007 at The Hague Academy of International Law. The essay, published in French and later in English under the title “Legal Theory of International Arbitration”, was greeted by the international arbitration community as a ground-breaking and landmark work, for both the well-versed and newcomers to international arbitration. It is also available in Arabic, Chinese, Spanish, Hungarian, and Portuguese.

He has been referred to as an "intellectuel de droite" with a strong interest in sociology in the Revue du Crieur, a left-wing journal.

Arbitrator 

He acted as a chairman, sole arbitrator or member of the tribunal in numerous international arbitration proceedings (under the rules of the ICSID, ICC, LCIA, AAA, IACAC, etc.) as well as in ad hoc arbitration proceedings (UNCITRAL).

He was a chairman in NAFTA proceedings under UNCITRAL Rules.  He also acted as co-arbitrator in other investment treaty arbitrations.

Lawyer and counsel 

Gaillard acted as a counsel in numerous international arbitration proceedings (mainly oil & gas, construction, international investment, environment and mergers & acquisitions matters).  In 2005, he drew the attention of the world's legal community when he began representing the majority shareholders in Yukos Oil Company against the Russian Federation, for compensation up to US$50billion, the largest international arbitration ever. An award on jurisdiction was issued on November 30, 2009 in those proceedings, according to which the tribunal accepted that it has jurisdiction to hear the case pursuant to the provisions of the Energy Charter Treaty (ECT). In three awards dated 18 July 2014, the Arbitral Tribunal constituted in accordance with Article 26 of the Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) and the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules under the auspices of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) ordered Russia to pay over US$50 billion in compensation for the indirect expropriation of OAO Yukos Oil Company (Yukos).

The main proceedings he worked on are the representation of the majority shareholders in Yukos Oil Company as Claimants in a series of three arbitrations against the Russian Federation, Wena Hotels against the Arab Republic of Egypt (ICSID Case No. ARB/98/4), The Slovak Republic as Respondent in an ICSID arbitration against Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka, A.S. (“CSOB”) (ICSID Case No. ARB/97/4), SGS Société Générale de Surveillance S.A. as Claimant in an ICSID arbitration against the Republic of the Philippines (ICSID Case No. ARB/02/6), SAUR International against the Argentine Republic (ICSID Case No. ARB/04/4), SGS Société Générale de Surveillance S.A. as Claimant in an ICSID arbitration in The Hague and Paris against the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (ICSID Case No. ARB/01/13), Plama Consortium Limited as Claimant in an ICSID arbitration in Paris against the Republic of Bulgaria (ICSID Case No. ARB/03/24).

Death
Gaillard died from aortic dissection on April 1 2021 at the age of 69 at a hospital in Paris.

Works