[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joseph D. Bedle

to, six Assembly Republicans crossed party lines to prevent the bill's passage. However, the Republican legislature did overcome Bedle's veto to pass a prison reform bill which Bedle argued would create statutory officers too powerful to be chosen without constitutional advice and consent processes.

During his final year in office, Bedle appointed his father-in-law, Bennington F. Randolph, to one of two new Jersey City judgeships, but the Democratic Senate rejected a Republican Bedle nominated for the other seat. Bedle appointed another Republican, also rejected, before dismissing the Senate and appointing the Republican ad interim.

During a railroad strike in 1877, Bedle called up the state National Guard to protect the trains and replacement crews.

Post-governorship
After leaving office, Bedle returned to the private practice of law and served as legal counsel for the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad. He joined the board of directors of many prominent corporations. He declined three appointments to judgeships and presidential nominations as minister to Russia and Austria.

In the last year of his life, Bedle served on the New Jersey Constitutional Commission of 1894.

Personal life
He married Althea Fitz Randolph ( – 1926), the daughter of a local lawyer and niece of future New Jersey Governor Theodore Fitz Randolph, in 1861. They had four sons, Joseph Dorsett Bedle, Jr. (1864-1917), Bennington Fitz Randolph Bedle (1862-1917), Thomas Francis Bedle (1865-1922), and Randolph Bedle (1875-1880), and two daughters, Mary Howell Bedle (1873-1880) and Althea Fitz Randolph Bedle (1871-1957).

Bedle was an Honorary Member of the Society of the Cincinnati.

Death and legacy
Bedle died at St. Luke's Hospital in New York City on October 21, 1894, from complications from surgery for bladder stones. He was buried at Maplewood Cemetery in Freehold Township.

See also

List of governors of New Jersey

References

External links
New Jersey Governor Joseph Dorsett Bedle, National Governors Association

Joseph Dorsett Bedle, The Political Graveyard
Dead Governors of New Jersey bio for Joel Parker

1831 births
1894 deaths
State and National Law School alumni
New Jersey lawyers
Democratic Party governors of New Jersey
New Jersey state court judges
Justices of the Supreme Court of New Jersey
People from Matawan, New Jersey
American Protestants
Burials at Maplewood Cemetery, Freehold, New Jersey
19th-century American judges
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century American politicians