[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Armenia–Turkey relations

n on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities.

Several nations and U.S. states, have passed formal legislative condemnations of the Armenian Genocide, despite intense Turkish diplomatic and economic pressure. Switzerland has adopted laws that punish genocide denial.

Border dispute

In the post-Soviet climate of irredentism, Turkey was particularly wary of hard-line Armenian sentiment laying claim to the territory of "Historic Armenia" within Turkey. The Armenian Revolutionary Federation, an Armenian political party, continues to insist on a reversion towards the Treaty of Sèvres territorial boundaries. The treaty signed by Ottoman Empire was rejected by Republic of Turkey after it won the Turkish War of Independence and succeeded the empire.

These ongoing border disputes threatened to derail the negotiations between Armenia and Turkey prior to the announcement of the provisional road map in April 2009 with a group of Azerbaijani journalists reportedly refused permission to travel to Turkey to view renovation work on the border gate and Turkish journalist Servet Yanatma and four colleagues later being detained by Armenian authorities after attempting to film the Turkish–Armenian border without permission.

Yanatma, writing in the English-language Today's Zaman, however states that they were treated cordially and released after two hours and quotes an unnamed official as confirming that Armenia would adhere to the 1921 Treaty of Kars and renounce any territorial claims implicit in the national constitution's description of the Turkish territory of Eastern Anatolia as Western Armenia with the statement, "We are talking about the opening of a border. Can a border be opened if it is not recognized?"

It was in response to this issue following the announcement that the Dashnak Party decided to withdraw from the coalition government feeling that renunciation of Armenian territorial claims would be an unacceptably radical change in the country's foreign policy.

Armenia–Turkey normalization process meetings

1st Armenia–Turkey normalization process meeting: 14 January 2022 in Moscow, Russia
2nd Armenia–Turkey normalization process meeting: 24 February 2022 in Vienna, Austria 
3rd Armenia–Turkey normalization process meeting: 3 May 2022 in Vienna, Austria 
4th Armenia–Turkey normalization process meeting: 1 July 2022 in Vienna, Austria 
5th Armenia–Turkey normalization process meeting: TBD

Diplomacy

Republic of Armenia
Armenia does not have an embassy in Ankara.

Republic of Turkey
Turkey does not have an embassy in Yerevan.

See also

Anti-Armenian sentiment in Turkey
Armenia–Azerbaijan relations
Armenia–European Union relations
Armenia–NATO relations 
Armenia–Turkey border
Armenians in Turkey
Foreign relations of Armenia
Foreign relations of Turkey
Peaceful coexistence
Peaceful Evolution theory
Recognition of the Armenian Genocide
Turks in Armenia 
United States recognition of the Armenian Genocide

References

External links
 Armenian genocide: Why many Turkish people have trouble accepting it, GlobalPost, 2012
 Video – Armenia and Turkey Protocol Signed 
 Has Armenia Set Preconditions for Normalisation?, Mehmet Fatih Öztarsu, Strategic Outlook Institution
 Brief history of Armenian–Turkish relations after the Armenian Genocide.
 Armenian-Turkish Conflict
 Revisiting the Armenian Genocide
 Turkish-Armenian Relations: Roadmap to Peace?
 Turkey-Armenia Relations: Football Diplomacy Starts to Bear Fruits
 'Stop The Protocols' Armenian Website
 Armenian-Turkish dialogue platform
 A new era in Turkish-Armenian relations, Opinion by Bulent Aras, September 2009, European Union Institute for Security Studies
 Armenian Genocide History
 Mustafa Aydin, Armando Garcia Schmidt, Tabib Huseynov, Alexander Iskandaryan, Andrei Zagorski: "After Soccer Diplomacy: The Turkish-Armenian Relations", spotlight Europe 2009/10, October 2009
 Articles about the Armenian-Turkish relations in the Caucasus Analytical Digest No. 11
 Iskandaryan, Alexander: "Armenia–Turkey Relations: Options for 2025" in the Caucasus Analytical Digest No. 19

 
Turkey
Bilateral relations of Turkey