[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mike Anderson (basketball coach)

to start over in his eighth season with the Razorbacks, welcoming nine new players with Daniel Gafford the only returning player of note. The team finished in a tie for ninth in the SEC with Alabama, lost its opening SEC Tournament game to Florida and then went 1–1 in the NIT to close out the year.

Termination
On March 26, 2019, it was announced that Arkansas had dismissed Anderson as head coach, marking the end of 25 years of association with the University of Arkansas as both an assistant and head basketball coach. He was replaced by former Nevada head coach Eric Musselman.

St. John's
The 59-year-old was named the head coach at St. John's University on April 19, 2019, replacing Chris Mullin.

On Feb. 16, 2021, Anderson won his 400th game as his Red Storm defeated Xavier. Anderson was named Big East Coach of the Year for the 2020–21 season.  Anderson was given a 6-year extension as a result of his first two seasons at St. John's.

Termination
St. John’s fired men’s basketball Anderson on March 10th, 2023, one day after his fourth season in charge ended with an overtime loss to No. 6 Marquette in the Big East Tournament quarterfinals.

Lawsuit
Anderson then sued St. John's University for $45.6 million. He alleges he was fired with cause in March only so the school could avoid paying his buyout and use the money to hire Rick Pitino who was hired on March 20th, 2023.

Head coaching record

Personal life

Anderson and his wife, Marcheita, have four children: Darcheita, Michael Jr., Suney Alexander (Desmond Alexander) and Yvonne; and four grandchildren. Yvonne was a four-year letterwinner for the Texas Longhorns women's basketball team.

Nephew DeMarre Carroll was Missouri's leading scorer his senior year in 2008–09, played 11 seasons in the NBA and is currently an assistant coach for the Milwaukee Bucks.

References

External links
 St. John's bio
 Arkansas Razorbacks bio
 Missouri Tigers bio
 UAB Blazers bio

1959 births
Living people
African-American basketball coaches
Basketball coaches from Alabama
Arkansas Razorbacks men's basketball coaches
American men's basketball players
Basketball players from Birmingham, Alabama
College men's basketball head coaches in the United States
Junior college men's basketball players in the United States
Missouri Tigers men's basketball coaches
Sportspeople from Birmingham, Alabama
St. John's Red Storm men's basketball coaches
Tulsa Golden Hurricane men's basketball coaches
Tulsa Golden Hurricane men's basketball players
UAB Blazers men's basketball coaches
21st-century African-American sportspeople
20th-century African-American sportspeople