[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Battle of Gettysburg

urg: Final Report on the Battlefield of Gettysburg. Albany, NY: J.B. Lyon Company, Printers, 1900. .
 U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies. Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.

Further reading

 Adkin, Mark. The Gettysburg Companion: The Complete Guide to America's Most Famous Battle. Mechanicsburg, PA: Stackpole Books, 2008. .
 Bachelder, John B. The Bachelder Papers: Gettysburg in Their Own Words. Edited by David L. Ladd and Audrey J. Ladd. 3 vols. Dayton, OH: Morningside Press, 1994. .
 Bachelder, John B. Gettysburg: What to See, and How to See It: Embodying Full Information for Visiting the Field. Boston: Bachelder, 1873. .
 Ballard, Ted, and Billy Arthur. Gettysburg Staff Ride Briefing Book . Carlisle, PA: United States Army Center of Military History, 1999. .
 Boritt, Gabor S., ed. The Gettysburg Nobody Knows. New York: Oxford University Press, 1997. .
 Desjardin, Thomas A. These Honored Dead: How the Story of Gettysburg Shaped American Memory. New York: Da Capo Press, 2003. .
 Frassanito, William A. Early Photography at Gettysburg. Gettysburg, PA: Thomas Publications, 1995. .
 Lyon Fremantle, Arthur J. The Fremantle Diary: A Journal of the Confederacy. Edited by Walter Lord. Short Hills, NJ: Burford Books, 2002. . First published 1954 by Capricorn Books.
 Gottfried, Bradley M. The Maps of Gettysburg: An Atlas of the Gettysburg Campaign, June 3–13, 1863. New York: Savas Beatie, 2007. .
 Grimsley, Mark, and Brooks D. Simpson. Gettysburg: A Battlefield Guide. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1999. .
 Hall, Jeffrey C. The Stand of the U.S. Army at Gettysburg. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2003. .
 Haskell, Frank Aretas. The Battle of Gettysburg. Whitefish, MT: Kessinger Publishing, 2006. .
 Hawthorne, Frederick W. Gettysburg: Stories of Men and Monuments. Gettysburg, PA: Association of Licensed Battlefield Guides, 1988. .
 Huntington, Tom. Pennsylvania Civil War Trails: The Guide to Battle Sites, Monuments, Museums and Towns. Mechanicsburg, PA: Stackpole Books, 2007. .
 Laino, Philip, Gettysburg Campaign Atlas, 2nd ed. Dayton, OH: Gatehouse Press 2009. .
 McMurry, Richard M. "The Pennsylvania Gambit and the Gettysburg Splash". In The Gettysburg Nobody Knows, edited by Gabor Boritt. New York: Oxford University Press, 1997. .
 McPherson, James M. Hallowed Ground: A Walk at Gettysburg. New York: Crown Publishers, 2003. .
 Petruzzi, J. David, and Steven Stanley. The Complete Gettysburg Guide. New York: Savas Beatie, 2009. .
 Rhodes, James Ford. "The Battle of Gettysburg." American Historical Review 4#4 1899, pp. 665–677. online
 Stackpole, General Edward J. They Met at Gettysburg. Harrisburg, PA: Stackpole Books, 1956, .

External links

 Battle of Gettysburg: Battle Maps, histories, photos, and preservation news (American Battlefield Trust)
 Animated map of the Battle of Gettysburg (American Battlefield Trust)
 Gettysburg National Military Park (National Park Service)
 Papers of the Gettysburg National Military Park seminars
 U.S. Army's Interactive Battle of Gettysburg with Narratives
 Military History Online: The Battle of Gettysburg
 Official Records: The Battle of Gettysburg
 The Brothers War: The Battle of Gettysburg
 Gettysburg Discussion Group archives 
 List of 53 Confederate generals at Gettysburg 
 Encyclopædia Britannica: Battle of Gettysburg
 National Park Service battle description
 

 
Battle of Gettysburg
Battles of the American Civil War in Pennsylvania
Battles of the Gettysburg campaign
Conflicts in 1863
Battle of Gettysburg
Battle of Gettysburg
Battle of Gettysburg
Battle of Gettysburg
Union victories of the American Civil War