[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 3]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ar
of hurting a worm, and employed himself in doing kind offices to all the
animals in the neighbourhood. He used to stroke the horses as they were
at work, and fill his pockets with acorns for the pigs; if he walked in
the fields, he was sure to gather green boughs for the sheep, who were
so fond of him that they followed him wherever he went. In the winter
time, when the ground was covered with frost and snow, and the poor
little birds could get at no food, he would often go supperless to bed,
that he might feed the robin-redbreasts; even toads, and frogs, and
spiders, and such kinds of disagreeable animals, which most people
destroy wherever they find them, were perfectly safe with Harry; he used
to say, they had a right to live as well as we, and that it was cruel
and unjust to kill creatures, only because we did not like them.

These sentiments made little Harry a great favourite with everybody,
particularly with the clergyman of the parish, who became so fond of him
that he taught him to read and write, and had him almost always with
him. Indeed, it was not surprising that Mr Barlow showed so particular
an affection for him; for besides learning, with the greatest readiness,
everything that was taught him, little Harry was the most honest,
obliging creature in the world. He was never discontented, nor did he
ever grumble, whatever he was desired to do. And then you might believe
Harry in everything he said; for though he could have gained a plum-cake
by telling an untruth, and was sure that speaking the truth would expose
him to a severe whipping, he never hesitated in declaring it. Nor was he
like many other children, who place their whole happiness in eating: for
give him but a morsel of dry bread for his dinner, and he would be
satisfied, though you placed sweetmeats and fruit, and every other
nicety, in his way.

With this little boy did Master Merton become acquainted in the
following manner:--As he and the maid were once walking in the fields on
a fine summer's morning, diverting themselves with gathering different
kinds of wild flowers, and running after butterflies, a large snake, on
a sudden, started up from among some long grass, and coiled itself round
little Tommy's leg. You may imagine the fright they were both in at this
accident; the maid ran away shrieking for help, while the child, who was
in an agony of terror, did not dare to stir from the place where he was
standing. Harry, who happened to be walking near the place, came running
up, and asked what was the matter. Tommy, who was sobbing most
piteously, could not find words to tell him, but pointed to his leg, and
made Harry sensible of what had happened. Harry, who, though young, was
a boy of a most courageous spirit, told him not to be frightened; and
instantly seizing the snake by the neck, with as much dexterity as
resolution, tore him from Tommy's leg, and threw him to a great distance
off.

[Illustration: "Harry, instantly seizing the snake by the neck, with as
much dexterity as resolution, tore him from Tommy's leg and threw him to
a great distance off." _P. 6._]

Just as this happened, Mrs Merton and all the family, alarmed by the
servant's cries, came running breathless to the place, as Tommy was
recovering his spirits, and thanking his brave little deliverer. Her
first emotions were to catch her darling up in her arms, and, after
giving him a thousand kisses, to ask him whether he had received any
hurt. "No," said Tommy, "indeed I have not, mamma; but I believe that
nasty ugly beast would have bitten me, if that little boy had not come
and pulled him off." "And who are you, my dear," said she, "to whom we
are all so obliged?" "Harry Sandford, madam." "Well, my child, you are a
dear, brave little creature, and you shall go home and dine with us."
"No, thank you, madam; my father will want me." "And who is your father,
my sweet boy?" "Farmer Sandford, madam, that lives at the bottom of the
hill." "Well, my dear, you shall be my child henceforth; will you?" "If
you please, madam, if I may have my own father and mother, too."

Mrs Merton instantly despatched a servant to the farmer's; and, taking
little Harry by the hand, she led him to the mansion-house, where she
found Mr Merton whom she entertained with a long account of Tommy's
danger and Harry's bravery.

Harry was now in a new scene of life. He was carried through costly
apartments, where everything that could please the eye, or contribute
to convenience, was assembled. He saw large looking-glasses in gilded
frames, carved tables and chairs, curtains made of the finest silk, and
the very plates and knives and forks were of silver. At dinner he was
placed close to Mrs Merton, who took care to supply him with the
choicest bits, and engaged him to eat, with the most endearing kindness;
but, to the astonishment of everybody, he neither appeared pleased nor
surprised at anything he saw. Mrs Merton c