[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Flem D. Sampson

stipulated in the bill that the appointment power would return to the governor in 1931, which was the end of Sampson's term. The law passed the House of Representatives 53—42 and the Senate 22–15. Sampson vetoed the bill, but the veto was overridden, and Johnson was returned to his former position.

Sampson also made enemies when he backed Samuel Insull's plan to dam the Cumberland Falls to generate hydroelectric power. An ally of the traditional southern power groups (the utility companies and textbook manufacturers), Sampson cited the jobs to be gained from the plan. The plan was opposed conservationists in the state and by most of the state's newspapers. An alternate plan was proposed by Louisville-born millionaire and Delaware Senator T. Coleman du Pont, who offered to purchase the falls for $230,000 and turn it into a state park. The General Assembly passed legislation giving the state park commission the right of eminent domain over the falls and then voted to accept the du Pont's offer. Sampson vetoed the Assembly's action, but his veto was overridden.

Sampson's agenda for the 1930 session was lost in the fights over Ben Johnson and Cumberland Falls. His calls for funding the free textbook program, compulsory sterilization of the mentally ill, and restrictions on chain stores were ignored. Instead, the legislature further eroded his gubernatorial powers, including the power to appoint members of the textbook commission. With nearly all of the governor's powers stripped away and given to a three-person commission, Lieutenant Governor James Breathitt Jr. became the de facto governor for the remainder of Sampson's term.

The General Assembly pursued its own agenda, passing a mandatory driver's license law, a revised election law, and a sales tax on retail stores. It also allocated funding for the purchase of what would become Mammoth Cave National Park. Sampson vetoed 12 bills during the 1930 session, but the legislature overrode 11 of them.

With the onset of the Great Depression, Sampson worked to control government costs, but he endorsed highway progression. A severe drought in 1930 left 86 of the state's counties applying for federal aid.

As unemployment in the eastern coal fields climbed to 40 percent, the United Mine Workers made their first inroads in the region. In 1931, mine owners began firing workers who joined the union. Many of those workers gathered in Evarts, Kentucky. The local sheriff added 26 deputies to his staff, helping to enforce the blacklisting of those miners and to discourage further organization. Union leaders petitioned Sampson to remove the sheriff and the county judge from office.

Violent squabbles between striking union miners and local authorities began as early as mid-April 1931. On May 5, 1931, three guards and a miner were killed in a shootout that became known as the Battle of Evarts. Two days later, Sampson called in the Kentucky National Guard to disarm both the mine guards and the union miners. All of the union's leaders were arrested, and the strike ultimately failed.

Later life
Following his term as governor, Sampson returned to his legal practice in Barbourville and was elected as a circuit court judge. In 1940, he once again sought election to the Kentucky Court of Appeals but was defeated in the Republican primary by Eugene Siler.

In 1957, he was appointed to the Citizens' Advisory Highway Committee, and was awarded the Governor's Medallion for distinguished public service in 1959.

At the age of 91, Sampson served on the State Constitutional Revision Committee. He died in Pewee Valley, Kentucky on May 25, 1967, and was buried at the Barbourville Cemetery.

Notes

Powell gives the name as "Kellums."
Powell gives the year as 1899.

References

Sources
 

 

1875 births
1967 deaths
Republican Party governors of Kentucky
Judges of the Kentucky Court of Appeals
County judges in Kentucky
Kentucky lawyers
People from Barbourville, Kentucky
People from Laurel County, Kentucky
People from Pewee Valley, Kentucky
Valparaiso University alumni
Methodists from Kentucky
Union College (Kentucky) alumni
20th-century American judges
20th-century American politicians