[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Treaty of Tours

ty that Gloucester could serve as a figurehead for embittered war veterans and other opponents of the regime led Suffolk to instigate his arrest on charges of treason in early 1447. The imprisoned duke died shortly afterwards, probably of a stroke, though there were rumors that he had been murdered.

The Earl of Somerset was brought on board of the cessation of Maine by being offered the governorship of Normandy. However, it was already expected that the office would be held by the Duke of York. For the Duke of Suffolk, the easiest way to get York out of the way was to discredit him politically. In late 1446, a violent altercation in parliament between Suffolk's ally bishop Adam Moleyns and the Duke of York over allegations of the latter's misconduct as lieutenant-general discredited York politically and provided the justification for York's dismissal. York was mollified by being appointed governor of Ireland. He was nonetheless enraged at his treatment, which alienated Suffolk's regime from a hitherto supporter.

The truce of Tours collapsed in 1449 and the French then proceeded to conquer Normandy with ease. The Duke of Suffolk, politically discredited over the failure of his signature achievement, was impeached and murdered in 1450. His demise paved the way for Somerset to replace him as the court favourite. In the following years York, slighted over his previous treatment and seeing the collapse of English France under Somerset's tenure as damaging to his honor, would tirelessly lobby for Somerset's removal from power, accusing him of incompetence and embezzlement. Their feud was a crucial factor in the escalation of tensions that led to the Wars of the Roses.

Citations

References

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1444 in England
1440s in France
1440s treaties
England–France relations
France–United Kingdom relations
Treaty
Marriage, unions and partnerships in England
Treaties of medieval England
Treaties of the Kingdom of France
Henry VI of England