[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Antonio Tomás

Antonio Tomás González (born 19 January 1985) is a Spanish former professional footballer who played as a defensive midfielder.

Club career
Tomás was born in Torrelavega, Cantabria. He came through the youth ranks at local giants Racing de Santander, making his La Liga debut on 30 October 2005 by starting in a 1–1 away draw against Valencia CF and finishing the season with 23 games.

In 2006, Tomás was signed by Deportivo de La Coruña and immediately loaned to his former team for one year, returning for the 2007–08 campaign and playing sparingly as Depor finished ninth. From 2009 to 2011 he was regularly used by manager Miguel Ángel Lotina – only three of his 51 league appearances were not starts– but the Galicians were relegated in the second season and he was subsequently released.

On 27 September 2011, Tomás joined Real Zaragoza on a one-year contract. On 20 February of the following year, however, he severed his ties with the Aragonese and signed for 16 months with Bulgarian club PFC CSKA Sofia.

Tomás returned to his country for 2012–13, going on to spend four Segunda División campaigns with CD Numancia. On 17 July 2016, he agreed to a one-year deal at Super League Greece side Veria F.C. for an undisclosed fee.

Tomás returned to the Campos de Sport de El Sardinero in summer 2017, with Racing now in the Segunda División B.

Career statistics

References

External links

1985 births
Living people
People from Torrelavega
Spanish men's footballers
Footballers from Cantabria
Men's association football midfielders
La Liga players
Segunda División players
Segunda División B players
Tercera División players
Rayo Cantabria players
Racing de Santander players
Deportivo de La Coruña players
Real Zaragoza players
CD Numancia players
First Professional Football League (Bulgaria) players
PFC CSKA Sofia players
Super League Greece players
Veria F.C. players
Spanish expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Bulgaria
Expatriate men's footballers in Greece
Spanish expatriate sportspeople in Bulgaria
Spanish expatriate sportspeople in Greece