[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Constructive set theory

red pair model , so that e.g.  denotes another bounded formula in the formal language of the theory.

And then, using existential quantification and a conjunction,

saying that for any set , there is at least one set , which holds all the members , of 's members .
The minimal such set is the union. 

The two axioms are commonly formulated stronger, in terms of "" instead of just "", although this is technically redundant in the context of : As the Separation axiom below is formulated with "", for statements  the equivalence can be derived, given the theory allows for separation using . In cases where  is an existential statement, like here in the union axiom, there is also another formulation using a universal quantifier.

Also using bounded Separation, the two axioms just stated together imply the existence of a binary union of two classes  and , when they have been established to be sets, denoted by  or . For a fixed set , to validate membership  in the union of two given sets  and , one needs to validate the  part of the axiom, which can be done by validating the disjunction of the predicates defining the sets  and , for . In terms of the associated sets, it is done by validating the disjunction .

The union and other set forming notations are also used for classes. For instance, the proposition  is written . Let now . Given , the decidability of membership in , i.e. the potentially independent statement , can also be expressed as . But, as for any excluded middle statement, the double-negation of the latter holds: That union isn't not inhabited by . This goes to show that partitioning is also a more involved notion, constructively.

Set existence
The property that is false for any set corresponds to the empty class, which is denoted by  or zero, . That the empty class is a set readily follows from other axioms, such as the Axiom of Infinity below. But if, e.g., one is explicitly interested in excluding infinite sets in one's study, one may at this point adopt the

Introduction of the symbol  (as abbreviating notation for expressions in involving characterizing properties) is justified as uniqueness for this set can be proven. As  is false for any , the axiom then reads .

For a set , define the successor set  as  and write  for . Its interplay with the membership relation has a recursive clause, in the sense that . By reflexivity of equality, , and in particular  is always inhabited.
A sort of blend between pairing and union, an axiom more readily related to the successor is the Axiom of adjunction. This is all relevant for the standard modeling of individual Neumann ordinals.

A simple and provenly false proposition then is, for example, , corresponding to  in the standard arithmetic model.
Again, here symbols such as  are treated as convenient notation and any proposition really translates to an expression using only "" and logical symbols, including quantifiers. Accompanied by a metamathematical analysis that the capabilities of the new theories are equivalent in an effective manner, formal extensions by symbols such as  may also be considered.

BCST 
The following makes use of axiom schemas, i.e. axioms for some collection of predicates.
Some of the stated axiom schemas shall allow for any collection of set parameters as well (meaning any particular named variables ). That is, instantiations of the schema are permitted in which the predicate (some particular ) also depends on a number of further set variables and the statement of the axiom is understood with corresponding extra outer universal closures (as in ).

Separation 
Basic constructive set theory  consists of several axioms also part of standard set theory, except the Separation axiom is weakened.
Beyond the four axioms above, it postulates Predicative Separation as well as the Replacement schema.

This axiom amounts to postulating the existence of a set  obtained by the intersection of any set  and any predicatively described class .
For any  proven to be a set, when the predicate is taken as , one obtains the binary intersection of sets and writes . Intersection corresponds to conjunction in an analog way to how union corresponds to disjunction.

When the predicate is taken as the negation , one obtains the difference principle, granting existence of any set . Note that sets like  or  are always empty. So, as noted, from Separation and the existence of at least one set (e.g. Infinity below) will follow the existence of the empty set  (also denoted ).
Within this conservative context of , the Bounded Separation schema is actually equivalent to Empty Set plus the existence of the binary intersection for any two sets. The latter variant of axiomatization does not make use of a formula schema.