[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hyperboloid model

lm Killing used the representation he attributed to Karl Weierstrass for Lobachevskian geometry. In particular, he discussed quadratic forms such as  or in arbitrary dimensions , where  is the reciprocal measure of curvature,  denotes Euclidean geometry,  elliptic geometry, and  hyperbolic geometry.

According to Jeremy Gray (1986), Poincaré used the hyperboloid model in his personal notes in 1880. Poincaré published his results in 1881, in which he discussed the invariance of the quadratic form . Gray shows where the hyperboloid model is implicit in later writing by Poincaré.

Also Homersham Cox in 1882 used Weierstrass coordinates (without using this name) satisfying the relation  as well as .

Further exposure of the model was given by Alfred Clebsch and Ferdinand Lindemann in 1891 discussing the relation  and .

Weierstrass coordinates were also used by Gérard (1892), Felix Hausdorff (1899), Frederick S. Woods (1903)], Heinrich Liebmann (1905).

The hyperboloid was explored as a metric space by Alexander Macfarlane in his Papers in Space Analysis (1894). He noted that points on the hyperboloid could be written as

where α is a basis vector orthogonal to the hyperboloid axis. For example, he obtained the hyperbolic law of cosines through use of his 
Algebra of Physics.

H. Jansen made the hyperboloid model the explicit focus of his 1909 paper "Representation of hyperbolic geometry on a two sheeted hyperboloid".  
In 1993 W.F. Reynolds recounted some of the early history of the model in his article in the American Mathematical Monthly.

Being a commonplace model by the twentieth century, it was identified with the Geschwindigkeitsvectoren (velocity vectors) by Hermann Minkowski in his 1907 Göttingen lecture 'The Relativity Principle'. Scott Walter, in his 1999 paper "The Non-Euclidean Style of Minkowskian Relativity" recalls Minkowski's awareness, but traces the lineage of the model to Hermann Helmholtz rather than Weierstrass and Killing.

In the early years of relativity the hyperboloid model was used by Vladimir Varićak to explain the physics of velocity. In his speech to the German mathematical union in 1912 he referred to Weierstrass coordinates.

See also

 Poincaré disk model
 Hyperbolic quaternions

Notes and references

 
 
 , Chapter 3
 Miles Reid & Balázs Szendröi (2005) Geometry and Topology, Figure 3.10, p 45, Cambridge University Press, , .
 
 

Multi-dimensional geometry
Hyperbolic geometry
Minkowski spacetime