[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Valley Heights railway station

a. They are proposed to be restored by reconnecting the arrival and departure roads to a more closely resemble the trackwork of the steam era.

Trestling foundation ()
These are remnant foundations of the former coaling plant and demonstrate the scale, design and context of the former coaling plant.

Overhead catenary masts (1957)
The remnant overhead masts are a type of overhead system used in the form of the 46-class electric locomotives demonstrating the arrival of modern motive power in the depot. The masts in the yard are of the first generation design; fabricated, riveted, mild steel preserved with a micaceous paint system.

Moveable items
The following moveable items have been observed at Valley Heights Station:
 A safe (ID #749) with no brand name dating possibly from the 1960s is located in the booking office.
 Two early timber bench style seats in the General Waiting Room.
 An early ticket window desk in the ticket office.
There are a large number of moveable items that belong to the Valley Heights Museum. A Seth Thomas clock has been observed in the model rail room of the Former Amenities Building.

Landscape features
Apart from a couple of garden beds with shrubs and small plantings along the north and south ends of the platform there is no landscaping at the station. The existing station landscaping is not considered significant.

The locomotive depot site has built up gradually with deposits from the ash spoil dump and the site features large concrete retaining walls reinforced with railway sleepers along the southern portion of the site adjacent to the access road. The site incorporates a number of established mature tree and shrub plantings as well as many new plantings dating to the period of occupation of the current tenants. There are also a high proportion of established trees concentrated on the southern side of the Roundhouse. Plantings include a wide variety of native species, including wattle, eucalypts, angophora floribunda (rough barked apple), grevillea and callistemon (bottlebrush) as well as some and non indigenous species including pine and cedar species.

Potential archaeological features
There is high archaeological potential within the locomotive depot site due to the existence of remnant sidings, ash tunnels and trestles foundations.

Condition 
The station building is generally in good condition with minor repair work requirements for repointing and repainting; the lamp room/store is generally in good condition. Some cracks are evident on the eastern wall at the lock height have been observed – possibly result of incompatible cement mortar repairs. The signal box is in moderate to poor condition; the platform and footbridge are both in good condition. The locomotive depot is generally in good condition. Despite being vacant for a number of years prior to the current tenants, the RTM has subsequently undertaken a systematic program of restoration works over time. The roundhouse has undergone some roof replacement, and replacement of the glass in some of the windows.

The Chargeman's Office has recently undergone significant restoration works and is in very good condition. The former amenities building, toilet block, and air compressor shed are all in very good condition. The fuel store is in good condition. The workshop shed is in very good condition. The turntable, ash disposal tunnel and pits, locomotive watering facilities, trackwork, trestling foundations, and overhead catenary masts are all in moderate condition.

The station buildings are intact externally with minor changes to the internal finishes. The station has a high degree of integrity.

The locomotive depot site maintains a reasonable level of integrity in terms of the composition and layout of its buildings and structures, though some changes have taken place.

Roundhouse: Externally, the building retains its typical and original appearance. Even though its original purpose (the servicing of steam locomotives) has been altered to suit newer motive power, with a subsequent change to work methods and equipment, the integrity of the roundhouse has been retained. Internally, the building retains a high degree of integrity due to the retention of original construction features and details. The Chargeman's Office is of moderate integrity; the former amenities building is of high integrity; the toilet block is of moderate integrity; the air compressor shed, fuel store, workshop shed, turntable, and the ash disposal tunnel and pits are all of high integrity; the locomotive watering facilities are of moderate integrity; the trackwork is of moderate integrity; the trestling foundations are of moderate integrity; and the overhead catenary masts are of moderate integrity.