[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Constructive set theory

class  is then provenly not the empty set, introduced below. While classically equivalent, constructively non-empty is a weaker notion with two negations and ought to be called not uninhabited. Unfortunately, the word for the more useful notion of 'inhabited' is rarely used in classical mathematics.

Classes 
As is also common in the study of set theories, one makes use set builder notation for classes, which, in most contexts, are not part of the object language but used for concise discussion. In particular, one may introduce notation declarations of the corresponding class via "", for the purpose of expressing  as . Logically equivalent predicates can be used to introduce the same class.
One also writes  as shorthand for . For example, one may consider  and this is also denoted .
Further extensions of such notation are in common used in set theory, giving meaning to statements like "", and so on.

For a predicate , trivially . And so follows that .

Through the use of a 2-ary predicate , a set  may be characterized as  holding for all , where the right hand side may depend on the actual variable , and possibly even on membership in  itself.
The convenient notational relation between  and  functions akin to a simpler, special case of this. Axioms of the form  postulate that the class of all sets for which  holds actually forms a set, and this is sometimes less formally expressed as .

Equality
Denote by  the statement expressing that two classes have exactly the same elements, i.e. , or equivalently . This is not to be conflated with the concept of equinumerosity also used below.

The following axiom gives a means to prove equality "" of two sets, so that through substitution, any predicate about  translates to one of .

By the logical properties of equality, the converse direction holds automatically.

In a constructive interpretation, the elements of a subclass  of  may come equipped with more information than those of , in the sense that being able to judge  is being able to judge . And (unless the whole disjunction follows from axioms) in the Brouwer–Heyting–Kolmogorov interpretation, this means to have proven  or having rejected it.
As  may be not decidable for all elements in , the two classes must a priori be distinguished.

Consider a predicate  that provenly holds for all elements of a set , so that , and assume that the class on the left hand side is established to be a set. Note that, even if this set on the left informally also ties to proof-relevant information about the validity of  for all the elements, the Extensionality axiom postulates that, in our set theory, the set on the left hand side is judged equal to the one on the right hand side.

The above analysis also shows that a statement of the form , which in informal class notation may be expressed as , is then equivalently expressed as . In particular, this means that such -theorems (e.g. the ones provable from full mathematical induction) enable treating the class defined on the right hand side of the equality to be used like the set on the left.

Alternative approaches
While often adopted, this axiom has been criticized in constructive thought, as it effectively collapses differently defined properties, or at least the sets viewed as the extension of these properties, a Fregian notion.

Modern type theories may instead aim at defining the demanded equivalence "" in terms of functions, see e.g. type equivalence. The related concept of function extensionality is often not adopted in type theory.

Other frameworks for constructive mathematics might instead demand a particular rule for equality or apartness come for the elements  of each and every set  discussed. Even then, the above definition can be used to characterize equality of subsets  and .
Note that adopting "" as a symbol in a predicate logic theory makes equality of two terms a quantifier-free expression.

Merging sets
Define class notation for the pairing of a few given elements via disjunctions. E.g.  is the quantifier-free statement , and likewise  says , and so on.

Two other basic existence postulates given some other sets are as follows. Firstly,

Given the definitions above,  expands to , so this is making use of equality and a disjunction. The axiom says that for any two sets  and , there is at least one set , which hold at least those two sets.

With bounded Separation below, also the class  exists as a set. Denote by  the standard ordered pair model , so that e.g.  denotes another bounded formula in the formal language of the theory.

And then, using existential quantification and a conjunction,

saying that for any set , there is at least one set , which holds all the members , of 's members .
The minimal such set is the union.