[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Shahawar Matin Siraj

Shahawar Matin Siraj is a Pakistani-American who was convicted in 2006 of plotting to bomb a New York City Subway station in Manhattan. Siraj was arrested in 2004 and found guilty of terrorism conspiracy. Siraj worked at an Islamic bookstore in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Over a period of several months in 2004 he was recorded by an FBI informer Osama Eldawoody regarding a plot to plant a bomb in the 34th Street–Herald Square station. According to the New York City Police Department, Siraj was "extremely impressionable due to severe intellectual limitations" and never actually agreed to carry out an attack. He was sentenced to 30 years in prison in January 2007.

In April 2021, the New York Times published an extensive investigative journalism report making the case that Siraj was the victim of an entrapment scheme orchestrated by the FBI.

Biography
Siraj, an immigrant from Pakistan who was not especially religious, worked in his uncle's Islamic bookstore in Bay Ridge and his uncle encouraged him to attend services at the nearby Islamic Society of Bay Ridge.  He became more interested in  Islam and also became irate about rumoured abuses of Muslim girls by American soldiers and about documented abuses of Muslims by American troops at the Abu Ghraib prison.  His family had overstayed their visas and were attempting to gain political asylum so that they could remain in the United States.

Investigation
According to New York City Police Department (NYPD) records, Siraj was "extremely impressionable due to severe intellectual limitations". When asked to participate in an attack on New York City Subway station by an informant, Siraj replied that he had to ask his mother for permission first. The NYPD admitted that Siraj never actually agreed to participate in an attack. Siraj also had no explosives or understanding of explosives.

U.S. v. Shahawar Matin Siraj
The trial received significant attention from local media outlets. The four-week trial was conducted in Brooklyn's Federal court.

Defense
The defense alleged that Siraj was "entrapped" into plotting the crime, after incitement of hatred by the police informant. Using his hatred of America, they claimed, he was convinced to commit a crime against American civilians, which he would not normally have been inclined to do. Many jurors said in anonymous interviews after the case that the "entrapment defense" was the most convincing in their hesitation to convict him.

They attacked the credibility of the prosecution's lead witness, Osama Eldawoody, on grounds that he was paid a total of $100,000 for his work as an informer, $25,000 of which he received during the year he conversed with Siraj. It was the informant's salary, they argued, that kept him interested in the issue and encouraged him to bring Siraj into such a predicament. Eldawoody stated he did not turn Siraj in for money, but rather, as a good Muslim who believed that his faith was not one to be degraded into one of terrorism. He is not likely to work for the NYPD again, simply because he may be recognized from the trial and/or his previous eavesdroppings.

The validity of the tapes was raised, and it was asserted that they may have been subject to review and censorship by the New York City Police Department, which was working alongside Eldawoody during his information-gathering visits. It was asserted that perhaps that the tapes were reviewed for incriminating content and may have been selectively edited—either by deletion or by Eldawoody himself—to leave out statements of encouragement and "entrapment" by Eldawoody that could have been critical proof for the defense.

Prosecution
The prosecutors, Todd Harrison and Marshall L. Miller, used digital recording from the defendant's conversations with Eldawoody, which were secretly made by the informant and handed to the police department as evidence. In these recordings, Siraj expressed excitement and pride in a plot to kill American civilians in Herald Square, which was strongly incriminating, albeit in a crime the defense felt was framed. The prosecution called their main witness, Eldawoody, who was the part-time police informant and a nuclear engineer used by the New York City's Police Department to infiltrate and eavesdrop on Islamic congregations around the city.

They attacked Siraj's credibility strongly because of many anti-American and anti-Semitic remarks he had made, some far before he had been encouraged into the bomb plot. These remarks, which would be regarded as reprehensible by the far majority of Americans, served to alienate the defendant as an ally to terrorist regimes and characterized him as a terrorist, despite the absence of weapons.