[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Craig Rocastle

Rovers on a non-contract basis. Rocastle impressed on his Forest Green debut, winning the man of the match award in Rovers 1–1 draw with Eastbourne Borough. He went on to make 15 appearances in the Conference National for Forest Green, before interest was shown in him by Swedish and American clubs.

Following a short trial in March 2010, Rocastle departed Forest Green to sign for Kansas City Wizards in Major League Soccer. He played 12 matches in 2010, however he was waived by Kansas City head coach Peter Vermes following the 2011 season on 23 November 2011. Six weeks later, on 4 January 2012, Rocastle signed with the Missouri Comets of the Major Indoor Soccer League. Ten days later he returned to Thrasyvoulos.

International career
Rocastle was eligible to play for both Grenada or Jamaica as his father was from Grenada and his mother was from Jamaica. He made his Grenada international debut on 26 November 2010, in a 2010 Caribbean Cup match against Martinique at the Stade d'Honneur de Dillon in Fort-de-France. He was named by coach Mike Adams in the 2011 CONCACAF Gold Cup at the United States, and played the first half of the 4–0 defeat to Jamaica at The Home Depot Center, before being taken off for Lancaster Joseph. Grenada exited the competition after finishing bottom of their group. On 15 November 2012, Rocastle scored from an indirect free-kick from  out in a 1–1 draw with French Guiana.

Personal life
He is a cousin of the late England and Arsenal midfielder David Rocastle.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours
Sheffield Wednesday
League One play-offs: 2005

Notes

References

1981 births
Living people
Footballers from Lewisham
English sportspeople of Grenadian descent
Grenadian men's footballers
English men's footballers
Grenada men's international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Queens Park Rangers F.C. players
Ebbsfleet United F.C. players
Kingstonian F.C. players
Slough Town F.C. players
Chelsea F.C. players
Barnsley F.C. players
Lincoln City F.C. players
Hibernian F.C. players
Sheffield Wednesday F.C. players
Yeovil Town F.C. players
Oldham Athletic A.F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Gillingham F.C. players
Expatriate men's footballers in Greece
Thrasyvoulos F.C. players
Welling United F.C. players
Dover Athletic F.C. players
Forest Green Rovers F.C. players
Sporting Kansas City players
Missouri Comets players
National League (English football) players
Isthmian League players
Major League Soccer players
Scottish Premier League players
English Football League players
Major Indoor Soccer League (2008–2014) players
2011 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
English expatriate men's footballers
English expatriate sportspeople in the United States
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States