[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Germany–Netherlands football rivalry

is seen holding a bouquet of orange tulips, reminding Kahn that they have yet to prepare the dressing room of the Dutch national team. The commercial added a more friendly perspective on the football rivalry between both teams.

Music 
A number of novelty songs have also been written, these include:

 "Wir sind die Holländer" by De Toppers. A 2006 song, sung partly in mock German.
 "Orange trägt nur die Müllabfuhr" by Mickie Krause. A 2008 song, the title of which means "only the garbage collector wears orange" in German, orange being the Dutch national colour. Waste collectors in the largest cities of Germany (such as Berlin, Hamburg and Frankfurt) do typically wear fluorescent orange overalls. However the insult is largely lost in translation as in the Netherlands garbage men wear yellow. The song is based on the melody of the Song Go West.
 "Holland" by Joint Venture. A 2002 song, about a singer who likes the Netherlands, the Dutch, and Dutch culture except when it comes to football.
 "Ohne Holland fahr'n wir zur WM" by the German band Orange Buh. A 2002 song about the Netherlands not passing World-Cup qualification. The title means "We're driving to the World Cup without Holland".
 "Schade, Deutschland, alles ist vorbei," meaning "Pity, Germany, it's all over," sung by Dutch fans after the Dutch team had reached the quarterfinals at the expense of the Germans at Euro 2004. The song has also been sung by the fans of other national teams – for example, by Danish fans during their 2–0 defeat of Germany in the UEFA Euro 1992 Final.

See also 
 England–Germany football rivalry
 German football rivalries
 Germany–Italy football rivalry
 List of football rivalries by country
 Low Countries derby
 Willi Lippens

Bibliography

References

External links
Germany-Netherlands matches 1910-2019 at RSSSF

International association football rivalries
Germany national football team rivalries
History of the Netherlands national football team
Germany–Netherlands relations
West Germany at UEFA Euro 1980
West Germany at UEFA Euro 1988
Germany at UEFA Euro 1992
Germany at UEFA Euro 2004
Germany at UEFA Euro 2012
Netherlands at UEFA Euro 1980
Netherlands at UEFA Euro 1988
Netherlands at UEFA Euro 1992
Netherlands at UEFA Euro 2004
Netherlands at UEFA Euro 2012

fr:Allemagne-Pays-Bas en football