[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# A Woman in Amber

and minimization of the trauma she endured in the war, Agate hides her feelings of depression and tries to carry on with her life. Though they are separated for much of their adult life, Agate and her sister, Beate, rejoin when Beate’s husband, Uldis, dies alone and penniless from alcohol poisoning.

Despite living at a distance from the Latvian community in Indianapolis where her father remains active as a Lutheran minister, Agate retains a close tie to her Latvian heritage. When a friend asks what he may bring Agate from Latvia, she asks for some Latvian soil. Agate treasures an amber pendant, which her mother wore. John gives Agate a piece of amber set in gold. Because of his respectful and receptive listening, Agate tells John her story and finally finds acceptance.

Major Themes
Immigration – The book highlights Agate’s experience of emigrating to America. We learn of the financial struggle her family faces when they arrive here and the burden they face in paying off their initial debt for housing. For many years, all members of the family work hard and do without. Agate writes about the living conditions and the dangerous neighborhoods the family had to live in. Agate’s mother, a skilled teacher in Latvia, had to work long hours as a dishwasher to support her family.

Exile – Valda is a Latvian who grew up in Russia. Once in Latvia, Valda and her young family are forced into exile again; they bury their most prized possessions in the dirt. After five years in Germany, the family emigrates to the United States.

Education- The memoir highlights the importance Latvians place on education, which is referenced in the memoir as “the riches of the heart." As a child, Agate feels second to her mother's interest in books. In the camps, Latvians organize schools to continue teaching the children in spite of the current situation. When the family is ready to leave the camps, their destination is either South America or America. Agate’s mother insists they go to the United States so that Agate and Beate can receive their education. Valada continues her education, receiving a PhD at 70.

Comparing Trauma – In Woman In Amber, Nesaule references Jerzy Kosinski’s book The Painted Bird, in several places. She compares her own experience with the experience described by Kosinski. Nesaule concludes what was faced by Kosinki was worse than the trauma she experienced. The concept of comparing trauma is also present in a Latvian community program in which the question of who suffers more in war is discussed. Is suffering greater in the men who are wounded or the women who are raped?

Songs- Singing is important in Latvian culture. In the orphanage, the women join together to sing. Their singing has a hypnotic effect on the soldiers which keeps them from raping the women.

Cultural Literacy- Cultural literacy is defined as being literate in a culture’s written material as well as being literate in the customs, traditions, and society of the culture. In the memoir, Agate becomes literate in American culture when she learns English and reads Gone with the Wind. From the books, movies, and people with whom she surrounds herself, she begins to learn the societal norms and expectations of her new culture.

The theme of healing is explored, along with private and public rituals of healing. Since Agate does not have an opportunity in her public space for healing, she must turn to an outlet in her private space. In discussing literature, public space means any area in which you are in the public, for example, at work, school, or out with friends. The private space means the space that your thoughts occupy. In her public space as a student, wife, and professor, Agate is unable to deal with her trauma. So, she has private rituals of healing in an attempt to deal with the trauma. These private rituals are a way for her to control the panic she experiences in her nightmares. Ultimately they are unsuccessful and only deepen her depression. She receives healing in the public space when she is able to tell her story to Ingeborg and John.

Tendency of the stronger members of society to prey on the weak-   A Woman in Amber is full of instances describing characters in vulnerable positions at the mercy of those in power. The abuse of power Agate experiences in the war is seen in other circumstances throughout her life, even among those who are themselves victims.
In the chapter describing the rapes that occur in the basement, Hilda, a woman who is raped repeatedly, is judged and isolated by the rest of the women in the basement. Although they too are victims of rape, they ease their own pain by ostracizing “othering” Hilda. Here the women gain power by judging Hilda.

When Joe meets Agate at Indiana University, he can tell she is vulnerable and needs his help to register for classes. It can be argued that it was Agate’s vulnerability that attracted Joe. Agate believed that if she stayed with Joe, he would save her if there were a war.