[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Noise regulation

f this provision is that it covers situations not contemplated in a noise ordinance and can be used as backup for more specific provisions. The weakness is that it may not give fair warning, may lead to arbitrary enforcement on the part of the regulator, or permit unreasonable demands by a listener.

Noise sensitive zones
This provision is a subjective immission control.  It is used to reduce levels of both stationary and vehicular sound sources around hospitals, schools, and other noise sensitive locations.  To provide fair warning visible signs must be posted.  It is possible to have an extensive list. For example, if churches are on the list and the community has many of them, signage, compliance, and enforcement can be a problem. In modern hospital environments, helicopter sound is exempt.

Places of public entertainment
This provision is an objective immission  control.  It regulates the site of the sound source while the Sound Reproduction Devices section regulates the devices that create the sound.  It can regulate the sound levels received by involuntary listeners in the surrounding community as well as the sound levels received by voluntary listeners.  If the latter aspect is incorporated, limiting internal sound levels often resolves community noise impact. Los Angeles (Article 2, Section 112.06)requires warning signs and limits noise exposure to 95 dB(A) at any position normally occupied. Seattle, WA {Section 25.08.501} considers the sound emitted to be in violation if the sound is plainly audible within a dwelling from 10 pm to 7am; the need for a sound level meter is avoided. Chicago, IL {Section 11-4-2805} limits received sound levels to 55 dB(A) inside a residential dwelling unit but if the ambient is greater, the limit is 65 dB(A).  If outdoors, the limit is conversational level at 100 feet from the property line.  If the building is set back 20 feet from the property line, the allowable level is 84 dB(A)!  Both of Chicago's limits apply from 10 pm to 8 am.  Salt Lake health Department, UT {Section 4.5.11.(vii)} sets the limit at 95 dB(A) at a position that would normally be occupied by a patron and 100 dB(A) at other positions. They also require a sign stating WARNING: SOUND LEVELS ON THIS PREMISE [sic] MAY CAUSE PERMANENT HEARING DAMAGE. HEARING PROTECTION IS AVAILABLE.   Anchorage, AK (Section 15.70.060.B.12) sets maximum levels for any patron at 90 dB(A).

Powered unmanned vehicles or engines
This provision is a subjective immission control with a curfew.  It has been used to regulate the sound of model aircraft on both private and public property.  It applies to airborne, water-borne, and land-borne, unmanned vehicles.  It makes no distinction between model vehicles and full-size unmanned vehicles.  it applies also to the engines of those vehicles. Most regulations pertained to private unmanned vehicles, normally restricted to local open fields.  The development of drones with microphones, cameras and GPS has opened the door to commercial use over wider private and public properties.  Since federal preemption of drone use will likely occur, it is important for this provision to make the distinction. Salt Lake Health Department (Section 4.5.15) limits activity to 800 feet from a dwelling between 10 pm and 7 am, or if it cases a noise disturbance. Atlanta, GA (Section 74-136(b)) uses the plainly audible criterion across a residential property line, on a public property from 10 pm to 7 am on weekdays or from 10 pm to 10 am on weekends or holidays for any sound source.

Propane cannons
This provision is a subjective immission control with a curfew. A propane cannon is used to keep animals and birds from destroying commercial crops. In large fields, many are used and fired as frequent intervals. The sound levels are equivalent to the firing of a small artillery cannon. The provision may contain requirements that limit the number of cannons permitted in a specific area and the number firings per hour for each cannon. Many US states have a Right to Farm Act that limits nuisance litigation. Florida stated that it was a purpose of their act to protect reasonable agricultural activities conducted on farm land from nuisance suits. They also added a section that limited expand of operations without consideration of noise. Fairfax County, VA (Sections 105-4-4 and 108-5-1) require agricultural operation to meet maximum land use regulations and prohibit unnecessary noise.  British Columbia Ministry of Agriculture (Farm Nuisance Noise document) have developed a comprehensive set of rules for cannon use.