[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# List of coups and coup attempts

he government of Prime Minister France-Albert René in Seychelles and install the previous president James Mancham to power.
Institution of martial law in Poland: General Wojciech Jaruzelski formed the Military Council of National Salvation and announced the institution of martial law in the country.

1982
1982 Bangladesh coup d'état: General Hussain Muhammad Ershad led a military coup to depose the civilian government, led by President Abdus Sattar, and install Ershad into power.
1982 Kenyan coup d'état attempt: An attempted military coup failed to overthrow the government of President Daniel arap Moi.
Rambocus coup attempt in Suriname: Surendre Rambocus and Wilfred Hawker attempted a coup against the government of Dési Bouterse. The attempt failed, and the plotters were arrested and later executed.
1982 Upper Voltan coup d'état: Colonel Gabriel Yoryan Somé led a military coup to overthrow the regime of Colonel Saye Zerbo, installing Jean-Baptiste Ouédraogo as president.

1983
1983 Upper Voltan coup d'état attempt: A few months after the Somé-led coup deposed Zerbo, several army officers decided to kill members of the Council of Popular Salvation and restore Zerbo to power. The plotters were arrested before they were able to do so.
1983 Upper Voltan coup d'état: On 3 August, Captain Blaise Compaoré deposed President Jean-Baptiste Ouédraogo and installed Thomas Sankara as president.
1983 Nigerian coup d'état: Members of the Nigerian military led a coup, ousting the democratically elected government of President Shehu Shagari. They installed Major General Muhammadu Buhari as leader of the Supreme Military Council, the country's new ruling body.
Grenada: In a military coup, Deputy Prime Minister Maurice Bishop was placed under house arrest. Bishop, who enjoyed popularity among the Grenadian population, was freed by supporters, and Bishop and some of his co-conspirators were executed. After the execution, the People's Revolutionary Army (PRA) formed a military Marxist government with General Hudson Austin as chairman. The United States invaded Grenada shortly after.

1984
1984 Cameroonian coup d'état attempt: Some members of the Presidential Guard failed to overthrow President Paul Biya.
1984 Mauritanian coup d'état: Colonel Maaouya Ould Sid'Ahmed Taya rose to power after a bloodless coup that overthrew President Mohamed Khouna Ould Haidalla. 
1984 Guinean coup d'état: Colonel Lansana Conté led a coup, deposing Louis Lansana Beavogui and taking power himself.
Romania: A tentative coup d'état planned in October 1984 failed when the military unit assigned to carry out the plan was sent to harvest maize instead.
Bolivia: During an ultimately unsuccessful coup attempt, the military arrested President Hernán Siles Zuazo for ten hours.

1985
1985 Ugandan coup d'état: Brigadier Bazilio Olara-Okello and General Tito Okello led a coup against President Milton Obote. They briefly ruled the country via a military council, but after a few months of near chaos, Yoweri Museveni and the National Resistance Army took control.
1985 Nigerian coup d'état: Chief of Army Staff General Ibrahim Babangida led a military coup which replaced Major General Muhammadu Buhari, and replaced the Supreme Military Council with the Armed Forces Ruling Council.
1985 Sudanese coup d'état: Defense Minister and Armed Forces Commander-in-Chief, Field Marshal Abdel Rahman Swar al-Dahab, led a coup against the government of President Jaafar Nimeiry.

1986
Philippines: A coup attempt led by Juan Ponce Enrile and Gregorio Honasan failed when President Ferdinand Marcos learned of it and arrested the leaders. However, it was one of the events that led to the People Power Revolution, which did eventually result in Marcos' fall from power.
1986 Lesotho coup d'état: General Justin Lekhanya led a coup that overthrew the long-time rule of Prime Minister Leabua Jonathan.
1986 Philippine coup attempts: Two attempted coups failed in the Philippines.