[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dhaam Dhoom

urdered Anna and why he was caught up in the scandal. Whilst fleeing from the police, Gautham gets shot by the mob and manages to escape narrowly. After taking care of his wounds, Aarthi and Gautham decide to seek down those who misled them. The eventual villainous figure is revealed to be Raghavan.

Before a shoot out, Raghavan reveals that Anna was a drug trafficker from Chennai to Russia, and by dropping her coat, consisting of drugs, off at the airport, she manages to evade being caught. Soon after, Anna had changed her ways and was ready to tell the police about Raghavan's drug dealing, but before that happened, Raghavan, along with the mob, had her killed off. In the final scene, Raghavan is killed by the police, and Gautham is set free to reunite with Shenba for their wedding.

Cast

Production

Casting
The film was launched initially with Jayam Ravi paired opposite Genelia D'Souza, however she opted out of the project due to fully booked dates for her Telugu film, Dhee. After Genelia's removal from the project other leading actresses such as Asin and Mamta Mohandas were approached for a key role in the film, but they also rejected the offer, citing commitments to other projects. 

Reema Sen was chosen for a significant role in the film; however, 14 days after her confirmation, she pulled out of the project, citing differences with the director, Jeeva. The role offered to Reema Sen, that of a lawyer, had no songs and was the second heroine role. Reema Sen confirmed later to Kumudham magazine that she did not want to play the second lead in the film, and opted out of the project. On 19 February 2007, the producers confirmed the choice of Lakshmi Rai to essay the role dropped by Reema Sen. The project was also Lakshmi Rai's biggest film of her career till then, despite being the second female lead in the project. Jayaram was later selected to portray the villain in the film, appearing in such a role for the first time in his career.

As per Jeeva's previous films, Jeeva himself took charge of the cinematography, though, after his death, P. C. Sriram took charge. Although Jeeva had been reworking his final draft during filming, S. Ramakrishnan was brought in after his death to find a way to connect the climax with the previous draft to the final one; the two would not come together properly, otherwise.

Filming
The film started in January 2007 in India, with the initial shoot taking place in Chennai, consisting of Jayam Ravi surrounded by duplicate snow. The first schedule was shot in February 2007, in and around Pollachi, featuring the countryside backdrop, with scenes involving actors Jayam Ravi and Kangana Ranaut, among others. The film's crew originally had problems maintaining a visa to film in St. Petersburg, Russia, and decided to relocate the scenes to Prague in the Czech Republic; however, they eventually obtained visas to shoot in Russia. While shooting their schedule in Russia, on 26 June 2007, director Jeeva died after suffering cardiac arrest. The film was suspended indefinitely following the director's demise.

In early July 2007, it was announced that M. Raja, the elder brother of Jayam Ravi, would complete the project, but subsequently, veteran director P. C. Sriram signed to complete the project with Jeeva's widow Anees. Finally, Anees announced that the film would be completed by her and Jeeva's assistant G.K. Manikandan, whilst Sriram would overlook their efforts. Eventually, the team returned to Russia and canned the remaining scenes within 40 days.

Release
The satellite rights of the film were sold to Kalaignar TV.

Reception
The film opened to positive reception from audiences .

The film opened in Chennai strongly, with advance bookings full for the opening weekend at Inox and Sathyam Cinemas, while at Mayajaal, there were 22 shows daily of the film, leading to a successful opening of 92% full attendance. Rs. 49,29,778 was grossed on the first weekend in Chennai multiplexes, which had a total of 166 shows over three days. After the first week the film, maintained its place at top spot, despite the entry of Saroja, gaining Rs. 37,31,124, with a total attendance percentage in Chennai of 70%.

Overseas, in the United Kingdom box office, the film opened at number 22, earning £21,634 during the first weekend, after opening across four Cineworld screens. After the second week the cumulative gross increased to £37,050, retaining the number of screens, but slipping to 34th in the weekly rankings.