[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# V. I. Warshawski

cs, Muslims and others - and she feels sympathy for illegal immigrants and occasionally gives them direct aid. Opposed to the American wars in the Middle East, she can be sympathetic to the soldiers sent to fight in these wars and is ready to help soldiers who had been wronged.

Recurring characters

 Carol Alvarado, a nurse at Dr. Herschel's clinic and good friend of Vic. She makes numerous appearances in the series, most notably in Bitter Medicine
 Paul Alvarado, Carol's brother and an architectural student. He thinks highly of Vic and considers her extended family
 Diego Alvarado, Paul and Carol's younger brother. Like Paul and Carol, he holds Vic in high esteem.
 Sal Barthele, statuesque owner of the Golden Glow bar and a good friend of Vic, who often refers to Sal as a "magnificent black woman"
 Freeman Carter, Vic's legal counsel on retainer
 Salvatore Contreras, Vic's downstairs widower neighbor and self-appointed father figure
 Roger Ferrant, a British businessman and one of Vic's earlier romantic interests
 Terry Finchley, a police detective whom Vic interacts with regularly; he became openly hostile to Vic while she was dating Conrad, but their relationship improved again after they broke up and Terry saw just how deeply she had cared for Conrad
 Darraugh Graham, an extremely important and long-standing client of Vic's
 Dr. Charlotte "Lotty" Herschel, close friend and perinatologist at Beth Israel Hospital; formerly had her own clinic as a general practitioner
 Max Loewenthal, Lotty’s significant other; executive director of Beth Israel Hospital and an art and music aficionado
 Bobby Mallory, a Lieutenant in the Chicago P.D. and friend of Vic's late father Tony
 John McGonnigal, police sergeant who regularly interacts with Vic
 Mary Louise Neely, an officer in the Chicago P.D. She was distant and indifferent to Vic when they first met, but in Tunnel Vision, she began to see Vic in a different light and by the end of the book, she has offered to become Vic's partner, which Vic accepted. She provides a significant amount of assistance to Vic over time and is also the legal guardian of Emily Messenger and her two brothers
 Conrad Rawlings, a detective in the Chicago P.D. Conrad and Vic were romantically involved for a while. He often calls her by the nickname "Ms. W"
 Tessa Reynolds, a popular local sculptor and good friend of Vic. She and Vic share a large working space together after the building where her original office was located was demolished
 Murray Ryerson, reporter at the Herald-Star newspaper; Vic's longtime friend and sometime rival; he usually refers to Vic as "O-She-who-must-be-obeyed" whenever she asks him for a favor

Bibliography

Novels
With year of first publication:

Indemnity Only (1982)
Deadlock (1984)
Killing Orders (1985)
Bitter Medicine (1987)
Blood Shot (1988) – published as Toxic Shock in the UK
Burn Marks (1990)
Guardian Angel (1992)
Tunnel Vision (1994)
Hard Time (1999)
Total Recall (2001)
Blacklist (2003)
Fire Sale (2005)
Hardball (2009)
Body Work (2010)
Breakdown (2012)
Critical Mass (2013)
Brush Back (2015)
Fallout (2017)
Shell Game (2018)
Dead Land (2020)
Overboard (2022)
Pay Dirt (due 2024)

Short story collections
Windy City Blues (1995) – published as V.I. for Short in the UK
V.I. × 2 (2002)
V.I. × 3 (2011) (supersedes V.I. × 2)
Love & Other Crimes (2020) (fourteen stories, eight of which feature V.I. Warshawski)

Adaptations
Deadlock was adapted as a film, V. I. Warshawski, with Kathleen Turner in the title role. The film, which took many creative liberties with Paretsky's character, was intended as a franchise for Turner but was not a commercial success, grossing $11.1 million domestically.

BBC Radio 4 has produced four radio dramas based on novels in the series, starting in 1991. The first two, Killing Orders and Deadlock, feature Kathleen Turner reprising her movie role, with Eleanor Bron as Dr. Charlotte “Lotty” Herschel. The third, Bitter Medicine, stars Sharon Gless as Warshawski. A fourth production, Publicity Stunts, is a dramatic reading performed by Buffy Davis.

References

Literary characters introduced in 1982
Fictional characters from Chicago
Fictional private investigators
Fictional karateka
Fictional Polish-American people

sv:V. I. Warshawski