[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# K. Leroy Irvis

pper campus, to the K. Leroy Irvis Hall in his honor.

Pennsylvania Democratic Party Chairman T. J. Rooney described Rep. Irvis as, "one of greatest legislative giants that the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has ever seen ... [and] one of the most admired and respected Pennsylvanians we'll ever know."

Personal life 
Irvis married Katharyne Jones, and they had a son Reginald and daughter Sherri together. Katharyne died in 1958. In 1973 Irvis married Cathryn L. Edwards, who survived him, as do his grown children.

Irvis was Catholic.

The K. Leroy Irvis papers
The University of Pittsburgh Library System, Archives Service Center maintains a large collection of wide variety of material related to Irvis's life, career, and political activities. The collection consists of correspondence, legislative material, interviews, photographs, publications, and campaign literature. Highlights of the collection include:

 Biographical data
 Camp Hill Prison Riots - 1989-1990
 His hobbies - model airplanes, brass and woodwind bands, craftsman guilds, minority arts, and wood sculpting.
 Pennsylvania History
 Awards, degrees and honors

References

External links

K. Leroy Irvis' oral history video excerpts, The National Visionary Leadership Project
 Finding aid to the K. Leroy Irvis Papers, Archives Service Center, University of Pittsburgh

Sources
"Former Pa. House speaker K. Leroy Irvis dies", Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, March 16, 2006
"2003 Honorees – K. Leroy Irvis", Dominion Resources
"K. Leroy Irvis", PA House of Representatives Democratic Caucus

1919 births
2006 deaths
African-American state legislators in Pennsylvania
Activists for African-American civil rights
Politicians from Pittsburgh
Democratic Party members of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives
Speakers of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives
University of Pittsburgh School of Law alumni
Deaths from cancer in Pennsylvania
20th-century American politicians
People from Ulster County, New York
University at Albany, SUNY alumni
Educators from Maryland
Activists from New York (state)
Educators from New York (state)
Educators from Pennsylvania
African-American Catholics
20th-century African-American politicians
21st-century African-American people
Roman Catholic activists