[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Khomeinism

state. In his book Islamic Government he hinted governments would soon fall into line if an Islamic government was established.
If the form of government willed by Islam were to come into being, none of the governments now existing in the world would be able to resist it; they would all capitulate.

Western reception
After the collapse of the Eastern Bloc and the Soviet Union, Khomeini's legacy lives on in the Western world. From the beginning of the Iranian Revolution to the time of his death Khomeini's "glowering visage became the virtual face of Islam in Western popular culture" and "inculcated fear and distrust towards Islam." He is said to have made the word "Ayatollah" "a synonym for a dangerous madman ... in popular parlance." His fatwa calling for the death of secular Muslim author Salman Rushdie in particular was seen by some as a deft attempt to create a wedge issue that would prevent Muslims from imitating the West by "dividing Muslims from Westerners along the default lines of culture." The fatwa was greeted with headlines such as one in the popular British newspaper the Daily Mirror referring to Khomeini as "that Mad Mullah", observations in a British magazine that the Ayatollah seemed "a familiar ghost from the past – one of those villainous Muslim clerics, a Faqir of Ipi or a mad Mullah, who used to be portrayed, larger than life, in popular histories of the British Empire", and laments that Khomeini fed the Western stereotype of "the backward, cruel, rigid Muslim, burning books and threatening to kill the blasphemer." The fatwa indicated Khomeini's contempt for the right to life; for the presumption of innocence; for the rule of law; and for national sovereignty, since he ordered Rushdie killed 'wherever he is found' 

This was particularly the case in the largest nation of the Western bloc—the United States (or "Great Satan")—where Khomeini and the Islamic Republic are remembered for the American embassy hostage taking and accused of sponsoring hostage-taking and terrorist attacks—especially using the Lebanese Shi'a Islamic group Hezbollah—and which continues to apply economic sanctions against Iran.  Popular feeling during the hostage-taking was so high in the United States that some Iranians complained that they felt the need to hide their Iranian identity for fear of physical attack even at universities.

Influences
Khomeini was "not in the habit of  footnoting his works" or acknowledging the  influence of others on his ideas, especially if the influences were "foreign or secular".
Nonetheless, his ideas as revolutionary and then Supreme Leader of Iran are thought to have been influenced by a number of people: Sunni Islamists, particularly Sayyid Rashid Rida,Hassan al-Banna (founder of the Muslim Brotherhood organization), Sayyid Qutb, and Abul A'la Maududi; 
and also Shia thinkers and activists included Fazlullah Nouri, Navvab Safavi, Jalal Al-e-Ahmad, Ali Shariati, Muhammad Baqir al-Sadr.

Rashid Rida

Khomeini's manifesto Islamic Government, Guardianship of the jurist, was greatly influenced (according to Mehdi Khalaji) by Rida's book () and by Rida's analysis of the post-colonial Muslim world.
Arguably the first prominent Islamist, Rashid Rida, published a series of articles in Al-Manar titled “The Caliphate or the Supreme Imamate” during 1922–1923 in which he advocated for the restoration of the Caliphate ruled by Muslim jurists and proposed  Islamic Salafiyya  movement revival measures across the globe to reform education and purify Islam.

Fazlullah Nouri

 

Fazlullah Nouri, enemy of the 1905-1922 Persian Constitutional Revolution, was praised by Khomeini as an "heroic figure", and some believe Khomeini's own opposition to constitutionalism and a secular government were influenced by Nuri's objections to the 1907 constitution.

Nouri declared the new constitution contrary to sharia law and spread anti-constitutional propaganda in his newspaper  and in leaflets he published.  He proclaimed sentiments similar to Khomeini's, such as 
  
He led direct action against his opponents, such as an around-the-clock sit-in in the Shah Abdul Azim shrine by a large group of followers, from three months;  recruiting mercenaries  to harass the supporters of democracy, and leading a mob towards Tupkhanih Square December 22, 1907 to attack merchants and loot stores.

He was called the "Islamic movement's first martyr in contemporary Iran", and honored to have an expressway named after him and postage stamps issued for him (the only figure of the Constitutional Revolution to be so honored).

Fada'ian-e Islam