[Source: PubMed]

36. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2007 Feb;11(2):122-33.

Occupational asthma in the developing and industrialised world: a review.

Jeebhay MF(1), Quirce S.

Author information:
(1)Occupational and Environmental Health Research Unit, School of Public Health 
and Family Medicine, University of Cape Town, Observatory, South Africa. 
Mohamed.Jeebhay@uct.ac.za

Occupational asthma is the most common occupational lung disease in 
industrialised countries, and the second most common occupational lung disease 
reported after pneumoconioses in developing countries. The median proportion of 
adult cases of asthma attributable to occupational exposure is between 10% and 
15%. The population attributable fraction appears to be similar in 
industrialised and developing countries characterised by rapid industrialisation 
(13-15%), but lower in less industrialised developing countries (6%). The 
high-risk occupations and industries associated with the development of 
occupational asthma vary depending on the dominant industrial sectors in a 
particular country. High-risk exposure to cleaning agents and pesticide exposure 
in developing countries appear to be as important as exposure to isocyanates, 
cereal flour/grain dust, welding fumes, wood dust and, more recently, 
hairdressing chemicals, commonly reported in industrialised countries. The 
reported mean annual incidence of occupational asthma in developing countries is 
less than 2 per 100 000 population, compared to very high rates of up to 18/100 
000 in Scandinavian countries. While occupational asthma remains 
under-recognised, especially in developing countries, it remains poorly 
diagnosed and managed and inadequately compensated worldwide. Primary and 
secondary preventive strategies should be directed at controlling workplace 
exposures, accompanied by intense educational and managerial improvements. 
Appropriate treatment remains early removal from exposure to ensure that the 
worker has no further exposure to the causal agent, with preservation of income. 
However, up to one third of workers with occupational asthma continue to remain 
exposed to the causative agent or suffer prolonged work disruption, 
discrimination and risk of unemployment.

PMID: 17263280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]