[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thornton Chase

er 400 students through while 21 blacks attended an auxiliary school, and received positive comments from Lincoln's secretary of war, Edwin McMasters Stanton. The school also helped train troops - eleven African American regiments were raised in one year, and were supported by several abolitionists.

By May, 1864 Chase was first lieutenant of Company K, second in charge under the captain, with 100 men.  of the 26th Regiment Infantry U.S. Colored Troops. He claimed to be 19 years old, but was in fact only two months past his 17th birthday. A company would normally be 60 to 80 privates, a wagoner, 2 musicians, 8 corporals, 4 sergeants, 1 first sergeant, 1 second and 1 first lieutenants, and 1 captain. About 1000 men, the regiment was mustered and practiced on Rikers and Hart Islands and would have received its "colors" (its flags) on March 26, 1864, however, a severe storm struck. On July 5 and 7, the unit fought two battles south of Charleston, S.C. in and around John's Island, especially around Fort Pringle; two officers were wounded during battles in South Carolina during this first deployment – Chase was wounded by an exploding cannon, permanently injuring the hearing in his left ear, and the other was the commander of the regiment who was killed December 17, 1864. Chase is listed returning to New York in November as "James B Chase".

Richard Walter Thomas, black scholar of race relations, observed that the relationship between white and black soldiers in the Civil War was an instance of what he calls "the other tradition": "… after sharing the horrors of war with their black comrades in arms, many white officers experienced deep and dramatic transformations in their attitudes toward blacks." We do not know Chase's personal views, but in 1865 Chase started service in another black soldier unit. He was promoted to captain and commanded Company D of the 104th United States Colored Infantry. That unit was organized at Beaufort, S. C., April–June, 1865, and did guard duty at various points in South Carolina through February, 1866. Meanwhile news of the surrender of Lee and days later of the assassination of Lincoln arrived in late April. Chase's resignation from the military was accepted November 7, 1865, in Beaufort, SC, and thus honorably discharged.  However, because of the manner of his resignation from service, he was later denied pay for returning home which was restricted to being discharged from service by the military - though he was given "in kind" travel back to New York.

Nearly two decades later, he contributed a poem to a magazine noting the dying off of the Civil War veteran, with the poem "Lo! The Ranks are Thinned and Thinning". Lines of it were used in veteran memorials. Robert Stockman, a scholar on Chase, draws attention to two stanzas of the poem as having a biographical tone to them:

For his service in U. S. Colored Troops and U. S. Colored Infantry regiments, his name was included as "James B. Chase" among the 7000 white officers on the Wall of Honor at the African American Civil War Memorial.

Marriage and employment 

Chase began to attend Brown University in September 1866, and was elected class secretary, but left school before completing the second semester. He returned to Springfield, where he worked for his father's lumber business – and joined the Mendelssohn club. On 11 May 1870 he married Annie Elizabeth Allyn of Bristol, Rhode Island, and they had two children: Sarah Thornton (1871–1908) and Jessamine Allyn (1874–1947). Chase's activities in work in society multiplied: he started his own specialty lumber business, directed the choir of First Baptist Church, and served as an officer in one of Springfield's musical organizations, and performed in a local concert.