[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Tite (football manager)

Copa Libertadores
After a turbulent elimination in the 2012 Campeonato Paulista, in which Corinthians were eliminated in the playoffs by Ponte Preta, Tite managed the club to their first ever Libertadores title in an unbeaten campaign, defeating Boca Juniors in the finals.

2012 FIFA Club World Cup

Entering the 2012 FIFA Club World Cup as the reigning South American champions, Corinthians earned a berth in the semi-finals against Egyptian club Al Ahly, the reigning 2012 CAF Champions League champions. Edging the Africans 1–0, Tite's defensive, possession-based tactics were called into question, especially after the tense second half of the game which saw the Egyptians create many goalscoring chances.

Advancing to the final, Corinthians were to face the champions of Europe, Chelsea. The two teams were in deeply different stages of morale and form – Chelsea interim manager Rafael Benítez was being heavily contested by the supporters; the captain of the team, John Terry, was out due to injury; and the team's main striker, 2010 World Cup winner Fernando Torres, was in poor form. Tite's squad lacked individual quality and talent, but was fine-tuned tactically and enjoyed a heavy boost of morale. The match saw the young goalkeeper Cássio save many dangerous shots, and Corinthians won after striker Paolo Guerrero scored a header against Petr Čech, winning Corinthians its second World Club Cup title, as well as Tite's first.

2013 and leaving Corinthians
Despite winning State of São Paulo League and Recopa Sudamericana, 2013 was not a good year for Corinthians. The club was eliminated in Copa Libertadores, where they unsuccessfully tried to defend their title, had a poor campaign at the Brazilian League and also lost Brazilian Cup after a penalty was missed by Alexandre Pato, arguably the main signing of that season.

Although supported by most Corinthians fans, Tite announced that his contract with the club would not be renewed on 14 November. Mano Menezes (former Brazil national team head coach and Corithians president Mario Gobbi's friend) return as Alvinegros coach.

Sabbatical year
After leaving Corinthians, Tite decided to focus on studying modern football. He received offers, but declined them in favour of his studies. He watched several games (including games from the 2014 World Cup) and visited some clubs as part of that refinement, including Arsenal and Carlo Ancelotti's Real Madrid. He was expected to be appointed as Brazil's new coach and was even approached by Japan, but Dunga was selected as Brazil's coach and Tite did not go through negotiations with Japan.

Third stint at Corinthians
On 15 December 2014, Tite's return as manager of Corinthians was announced. He won the 2015 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A with the best campaign in the history of the tournament at time (currently 3rd best all-time, after Flamengo in 2019 and Atlético Mineiro in 2021).

Brazil national team

In June 2016, Tite was announced as the new coach for the Brazil national team to replace Dunga, who was fired following Brazil's poor performance at Copa América Centenario. In Tite's first match in charge of Brazil, a 2018 World Cup qualifying match against Ecuador on 1 September 2016, Brazil prevailed 3–0, with goals from Neymar and Gabriel Jesus. He would then lead his team to seven consecutive victories in qualifying matches, eventually securing a spot at the World Cup in Russia, making them the first team to qualify for the tournament, apart from the hosts. On 14 May 2018, Tite announced the 23-men Brazil squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup. He would lead the squad to a quarterfinal exit.

Tite is noted for not having a preferred captain - as of May 2018, he had named 15 different captains in 19 matches. As of May 2019, he had used a total of 16 in 21 matches, with Neymar being the most common one with a total of seven matches. In August 2018, Tite decided to have Neymar as the fixed captain as an opportunity for him to demonstrate maturity following his behavior at the 2018 FIFA World Cup. In May 2019, however, he handed the armband to Dani Alves following Neymar's incident with a spectator at the 2019 Coup de France final.

On 25 July 2018, Brazil manager Tite signed a new contract which keeps him with the five-time world champions until the end of the 2022 World Cup.

In 2019, Tite led the Brazil national team to win the 2019 Copa América on home soil; this was Brazil's 9th Copa America title, their first Copa America in 12 years, and their first trophy in 6 years.

In February 2022, Tite revealed that he intended to step down as manager of Brazil after the 2022 FIFA World Cup. On 9 December 2022, Tite confirmed that he would leave Brazil, following their elimination from the quarter-finals of the World Cup against Croatia on penalties.

Flamengo
On 9 October 2023, Tite was announced as new head coach of Flamengo, signing a contract until December 2024.

Managerial statistics