[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Rick Snyder

und lead service lines in the city. The plan included short-, intermediate- and long-term goals, including making infrastructure improvements; creating a data-sharing agreement with state and federal environmental agencies; and setting up a protocol for a “drinkability declaration” for Flint water."

In mid-April 2016, Snyder initiated his own 30-Day Flint Challenge. "The plan was to drink solely Flint tap water for an entire month to show residents that the water was safe and that he cared about the people." However, the Detroit Metro Times reported that the governor left town on April 23 to spend the week touring Europe for trade discussions, breaking his promise.

In July 2018, Drs Hernan Gomez of the University of Michigan and Kim Dietrich of the University of Cincinnati, toxicology and environmental health experts, published an Op-ed article in the New York Times titled  “The Children of Flint were not ‘Poisoned.” In the essay article the authors referred to the findings in a study “Toxicohistrionics”: Flint, Michigan and the Lead Crisis published in the June issue of The Journal of Pediatrics. According to their opinion and the study, there was a small increase of children whose blood lead levels surpassed the Centers for Disease Control reference level (from 2.2 percent to 3.7 percent), but none were at a level that required urgent medical treatment."

On April 16, 2020, an article was published giving details of evidence of corruption and a cover-up by Snyder and his "fixer" Rich Baird, and saying the statute of limitations on some of the most serious felony misconduct-in-office charges would expire on April 25, 2020. The article was published by Vice News, written by Jordan Chariton and Jenn Dize, the co-founders of Status Coup, with photos by Brittany Greeson. Responses from Michigan state authorities denied that a deadline was approaching and said that criminal prosecutions would follow.

On January 12, 2021, It was announced that nine former government officials including Rick Snyder would face charges resulting from the Flint water crisis. Snyder was charged with two misdemeanors of willful neglect but he pleaded not guilty to the charges. Following its practice of paying the legal costs for state employees charged with a criminal offense, the administrative board of Michigan approved an up to $1.45 million contract with Warner Norcross & Judd law corporation to defend the former governor Snyder.

Subsequent career 

Just before leaving the governor's office, Snyder formed a new Ann Arbor based company called RPAction LLC whose staff consists of former officials of the Snyder administration.

On June 29, 2019, Snyder accepted a soon-to-be appointment at Harvard to share his knowledge of state and local government. On July 3, he tweeted that he was "turning down" the offer: "It would have been exciting to share my experiences, both positive and negative; our current political environment and its lack of civility makes this too disruptive.  I wish them the best."

Snyder endorsed Democrat Joe Biden during the 2020 United States presidential election, alleging that "President Trump lacks a moral compass. He ignores the truth" and that the president "also demonstrated that he does not fully appreciate policy matters, including public health, the economy and foreign relations, nor does he seem to want to learn."

Electoral history

See also

 Flint water crisis
 Financial emergency in Michigan

References

External links

 Office of the Governor Rick Snyder official Michigan government site
 Rick Snyder for Governor
 
 

|-

|-

|-

1958 births
20th-century American businesspeople
21st-century American businesspeople
21st-century American politicians
American accountants
American chairpersons of corporations
American computer businesspeople
American financial company founders
American Presbyterians
American technology chief executives
American venture capitalists
Business educators
Businesspeople from Ann Arbor, Michigan
Republican Party governors of Michigan
Living people
Michigan Republican Party chairs
People from Battle Creek, Michigan
Politicians from Ann Arbor, Michigan
Ross School of Business alumni
University of Michigan faculty
University of Michigan Law School alumni
American people of Dutch descent
Michigan Liberal Republicans