[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kevin Thornton (footballer)

F.C. before following the former Tamworth manager Dale Belford to Rugby Town for whom he scored a penalty on debut in a 3–1 win at Carlton Town.

Coventry United

Following a short spell at Rugby Town in 2015–16, Thornton joined Coventry United of the Midlands League Premier for the season 2016–17.

Boyne Harps FC
Following his release from Coventry United, Thornton again returned home to Ireland after a short spell teaching yoga in Cape Verdi. He trained with current NEFL Champions Boyne Harps through the winter months and done enough to convince manager Wayne Wright to sign him on a short term 12-month contract. After 2 months awaiting clearance from the FA, Thornton made his long-awaited debut for Harps in a sold-out game against local rivals Millmount Celtic. Thornton scored 1 and assisted 2 as he made an immediate impact with the club endearing himself to the home fans in the process. Thornton went on to make 11 appearances for Harps scoring 3 goals, assisting 7 and receiving one red card in an ill-tempered clash with title challengers Duleek. After a frank discussion with manager Wayne Wright about his struggles with alcoholism, Thornton went into self exile in the remote seaside village of Clogherhead where he chose to live off the land and face his demons head-on.
Harps and Thornton parted ways in June with Thornton returning to the UK to further his career.

Racing Club Warwick
On 13 June 2019, Thornton joined Racing Club Warwick.

Return to Coventry United
In April 2020, Thornton re-joined Coventry United.

Career statistics

Career honours
Wrexham
 FA Trophy 2012–13

Personal life
Thornton is the younger brother of former Sunderland and Leyton Orient player Sean Thornton.

References

External links

1986 births
Living people
Association footballers from Drogheda
Men's association football midfielders
Republic of Ireland men's association footballers
Republic of Ireland men's under-21 international footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Coventry City F.C. players
Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. players
Coventry Sphinx F.C. players
Nuneaton Borough F.C. players
Northampton Town F.C. players
Wrexham A.F.C. players
Tamworth F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Belvedere F.C. players
Hinckley A.F.C. players
Barwell F.C. players
Rugby Town F.C. players
Racing Club Warwick F.C. players
Leinster Senior League (association football) players
Republic of Ireland expatriate men's association footballers