[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abingdon (UK Parliament constituency)

ng Abingdon, into the county of Oxfordshire.

Boundaries and boundary changes

1885–1918 

 The petty sessional divisions of Abingdon, Faringdon, Wallingford, and Wantage;
 The municipal borough of Wallingford; and
 The parts of the municipal boroughs of Abingdon and Oxford in Berkshire.

1918–1950 

 The rural district of Abingdon (the civil parishes of Abingdon St Helen Without, Appleford, Appleton-with-Eaton, Besselsleigh, Cumnor, Draycot Moor, Drayton, Frilford, Fyfield, Garford, Kingston Bagpuize, Lyford, Marcham, Milton, North Hinksey, Radley, South Hinksey, Steventon, Sunningwell, Sutton Courtenay, Sutton Wick, Tubney, Wootton, and Wytham);
 The rural district of Wallingford (the civil parishes of Aston Tirrold, Aston Upthorpe, Brightwell-cum-Sotwell, Cholsey, Didcot, East Hagbourne, Little Wittenham, Long Wittenham, Moulsford, North Moreton, South Moreton, and West Hagbourne);
 The rural district of Wantage (the civil parishes of Aldworth, Ardington, Beedon, Blewbury, Brightwalton, Catmore, Chaddleworth, Childrey, Chilton, Compton, Denchworth, East Challow, East Hanney, East Hendred, East Ilsley, Farnborough, Fawley, Goosey, Grove, Hampstead Norris, Harwell, Hermitage, Letcombe Bassett, Letcombe Regis, Lockinge, Peasemore, Sparshlt, Upton, West Challow, West Hanney and West Hendred, and West Ilsley);
 The part of the rural district of Bradfield which consisted of the civil parishes of Ashampstead, Basildon, Frilsham, Streatley, and Yattendon;
 The part of the rural district of Faringdon which was within the administrative county of Berkshire (the civil parishes of Ashbury, Baulking, Bourton, Buckland, Buscot, Charney Bassett, Coleshill, Compton Beauchamp, Eaton Hastings, Fernham, Great Coxwell, Great Faringdon, Hatford, Hinton Waldrist, Kingston Lisle, Little Coxwell, Littleworth, Longcot, Longworth, Pusey, Shellingford, Stanford in the Vale, Uffington, Watchfield, and Woolstone);
 The municipal boroughs of Abingdon and Wallingford; and
 The urban district of Wantage.

The constituency's boundaries were adjusted slightly by the Representation of the People Act 1918, gaining a small part of the Newbury Division. It was redefined in terms of the administrative county of Berkshire and the county districts created by the Local Government Acts of 1888 and 1894.

1950–1974 

 The boroughs of Abingdon and Wallingford;
 The urban district of Wantage; and
 The rural districts of Abingdon, Faringdon, Wallingford and Wantage.

Under the Representation of the People Act 1948, Abingdon was altered marginally, with the part of the rural district of Bradfield being transferred to Newbury.

1974–1983 
As above. The constituency was not altered by the Parliamentary Constituencies (England) Order of 1970, but was slightly amended prior to the February 1974 general election to take account of changes to local government boundaries.

As a result of the constituency boundary changes introduced at the 1983 general election, the Abingdon constituency was divided; most of its electors were placed in the new Wantage constituency and a significant minority including electors in the town of Abingdon were placed in the Oxford West and Abingdon constituency. A small part to the south of the constituency had been retained within Berkshire and this area was transferred to Newbury.

Members of Parliament

1558–1640

1640–1885

MPs 1885–1983 
After the abolition of the parliamentary borough of Abingdon, a new county division of Berkshire was created.

Elections
Sources 1754–1784: Namier and Brooke; (parties) Stooks Smith. Positive swing is from Whig to Tory.
Sources 1885–1900: House of Commons 1901.

 Seat vacated on appointment of Morton as Chief Justice of Chester

 On petition Nathaniel Bayly seated in place of John Morton, 8 February 1770

 Tory hold from previous general election; Tory gain from Whig, from change on petition.
 Election declared void, 6 March 1775

 Change is calculated from the previous general election.
 Resignation of Mayor.

 Death of Howorth

Elections in the 1830s

Elections in the 1840s

Duffield resigned by accepting the office of Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds, causing a by-election.

Thesiger was appointed Attorney General for England and Wales, requiring a by-election.

Elections in the 1850s
Thesiger was appointed Attorney General for England and Wales, requiring a by-election.

Caulfeild's death caused a by-election.

Bertie succeeded to the peerage, becoming 6th Earl of Abingdon and causing a by-election.

Elections in the 1860s

Lindsay was appointed a Groom in Waiting to Queen Victoria, requiring a by-election.

Elections in the 1870s

Elections in the 1880s

Elections in the 1890s

Elections in the 1900s

Elections in the 1910s

Elections in the 1920s

Elections in the 1930s