[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Henry Harnden

resident Jefferson Davis.  Arriving at Dublin, Georgia, Harnden learned of a wagon train passing through the region which he believed to carry the Confederate president.  He split his command and set off on a rapid pursuit of the train, hunting it through southern Georgia over the next several days.

Near Abbeville, Georgia, Harnden met with Colonel Benjamin D. Pritchard, whose 4th Michigan Cavalry Regiment was assigned to guard duty in the vicinity.  Harnden informed Pritchard of the wagon train, which he now believed was camped close by.  The next morning, when Harnden's forces attempted to approach the wagon, they came under attack by a barrage of fire, then charged and returned fire, only to find that they had been skirmishing with members of the 4th Michigan Cavalry, which had moved out ahead of them.  While this fighting was occurring, other forces of the 4th Michigan Cavalry were entering the Confederate camp and capturing the Confederate general.

A subsequent congressional investigation into the matter determined that the two regiments should share equal credit for the capture, and that Harnden was blameless for the loss of life in the skirmish between the two Union regiments.

Harnden mustered out of federal service July 19, 1865. He was granted two honorary brevets, first to colonel then to brigadier general.  President Andrew Johnson nominated Harnden for brevet to brigadier general on January 13, 1866, and the United States Senate confirmed the appointment on March 12, 1866.

Postbellum years

After the war, Harnden returned to Wisconsin, settling in Madison. He served one term in the Wisconsin State Assembly (1866), as well as U.S. Assesor (1867–1873), and U.S. Collector of Internal Revenue (1873–1883). In 1899, Harnden was Commander of the Wisconsin Department of the Grand Army of the Republic, serving in that role until his death.

Harnden died of pneumonia at his home in Madison, Wisconsin, and was buried there in the historic Forest Hill Cemetery.

Due to the controversies surrounding the capture of Jefferson Davis, Harnden authored a short book, The Capture of Jefferson Davis, published in 1898.

Personal life and family
Henry Harnden was the son of Jonathan and Rhoda Harnden, and was a descendant of Puritan settlers of the Massachusetts Bay Colony.  His earliest American ancestors settled at Andover, Massachusetts, in 1640.  His grandfather was a lieutenant and his grandfather's brother was a captain in the continental army during the American Revolutionary War.  One of his maternal uncles served aboard the USS Hornet and was wounded when it famously captured and sunk the British ship HMS Peacock in the War of 1812.  Two of his brothers and thirteen of his nephews served in the Union Army or Union Navy during the Civil War.

He married Mary A. Lightner in December 1848.  His wife was a daughter of a Boston attorney.  They had four daughters together.  His wife and all four daughters survived him.

Published works

Further reading

See also

List of American Civil War brevet generals (Union)

References

External links
 
 

|-

1823 births
1900 deaths
People from Wilmington, Massachusetts
Politicians from Madison, Wisconsin
Members of the Wisconsin State Assembly
Union Army generals
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
People of Wisconsin in the American Civil War
Deaths from pneumonia in Wisconsin
Writers from Massachusetts
Writers from Madison, Wisconsin
19th-century American politicians
Military personnel from Madison, Wisconsin
People from Sullivan, Wisconsin
People from Ripon, Wisconsin
Grand Army of the Republic officials
Military personnel from Massachusetts