[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Privacy Act (Canada)

close the information to the individual (sections 48 and 49). Decisions of the Federal Court on such matters may be appealed to the Federal Court of Appeal, and, if leave is granted, further appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada (SCC).

Some important court decision concerning the Privacy Act are:

 Canadian Association of Elizabeth Fry Societies v Canada (Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness), 2010 FC 470 — holding that, when an individual requests their personal information and then consents to the release of that information to their representative, that consent survives the individual’s death.
H.J. Heinz Co. of Canada Ltd. v Canada (Attorney General), 2006 SCC 13 — affirms that a third party can object to the disclosure of information under the Access to Information Act on the basis that it would disclose personal information about another individual. In the course of its reasons, the SCC articulated several principles about the interpretation of the Privacy Act.
Canada (Information Commissioner) v Canada (Commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police), 2003 SCC 8 — considering the definition of "personal information" in section 3 of the Privacy Act.
 Ruby v Canada (Solicitor General), 2002 SCC 75 — holding that section 51(2)(a) of the Privacy Act is unconstitutional because it requires that the entire hearing of certain applications to Federal Court be held in camera.
 Lavigne v Canada (Office of the Commissioner of Official Languages), 2002 SCC 53 — holds that the Privacy Act is 'quasi-constitutional' legislation; a head of a government institution could refuse access because of the impact that disclosure would have on current or future investigations. However, the head must prove that there is a reasonable expectation that disclosure would harm those investigations.
 Privacy Act (Can.) (Re), 2001 SCC 89 — holding that the Privacy Act was not violated by a program whereby Canada Customs gave information about travellers to the Canada Employment Insurance Commission, to identify those who received employment insurance benefits while outside Canada.
R v Zarzour, (2000) 196 F.T.R. 320 — explains the principles about retaining personal information, and that a government institution must take sufficient steps to verify the accuracy of the personal information it uses for an administrative purpose.
 Dagg v Canada (Minister of Finance), [1997] 2 S.C.R. 403 — the first major SCC decision to consider the Privacy Act.

See also
 Privacy law
 Information privacy law
 Data privacy
 Access to Information Act
 Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA)
 Info Source—repository of information available through the Privacy Act and Access to Information Act

References

External links
 Privacy Act
 Supreme Court of Canada decisions on privacy
 Federal Court Reports - subject: privacy
 The Canadian Privacy Law Blog: A regularly updated blog on issues related to Canadian privacy law written by David T. S. Fraser, a Canadian privacy lawyer
Privacy Act in brief (The Privacy Commissioner of Canada)

1983 in Canada
1983 in Canadian law
Canadian federal legislation

Information privacy
Privacy in Canada
Privacy legislation