[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in São Tomé and Príncipe

soners.

The government permits human rights monitors to visit prisons.

Capital punishment 
Capital punishment in São Tomé and Príncipe was abolished in 1990. São Tomé and Príncipe ratified the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights on January 10, 2017.

Corruption
Official corruption is a serious problem. São Tomé and Príncipe was not surveyed in Transparency International's 2005 Corruption Perceptions Index.

Societal discrimination
The law provides for the equality of all citizens regardless of sex, race, racial origin, political tendency, creed, or philosophic conviction, and while the government actively enforced these provisions, women faced discrimination. Domestic violence against women occurred, including rape, but the extent of the problem was unknown. Although women have the right to legal recourse-–including against spouses–-many were reluctant to bring legal action or were ignorant of their rights under the law. Tradition inhibited women from taking domestic disputes outside the family.

The law stipulates that women and men have equal political, economic, and social rights. While many women have access to opportunities in education, business, and government, in practice women still encountered significant societal discrimination.

Mistreatment of children was not widespread; however, there were few protections for orphans and abandoned children. Child labor was a problem.

There were no reports that persons were trafficked to, from, or within the country.

Worker rights
The rights to organize, strike, and bargain collectively are guaranteed and respected. Few unions exist, but independent cooperatives have taken advantage of the government land-distribution program to attract workers. Because of its role as the main employer in the wage sector, the government remains the key interlocutor for labor on all matters, including wages. Working conditions on many of the state-owned cocoa plantations are harsh.

Historical situation
The following chart shows São Tomé and Príncipe's ratings since 1975 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is "free"; 7, "not free".

International treaties
São Tomé and Príncipe's stances on international human rights treaties are as follows:

See also 

LGBT rights in São Tomé and Príncipe
Human rights in Africa

Notes 
1.Note that the "Year" signifies the "Year covered". Therefore, the information for the year marked 2008 is from the report published in 2009, and so on.
2.As of Independence on 12 July 1975, and 1 January for years thereafter.
3.The 1982 report covers the year 1981 and the first half of 1982, and the following 1984 report covers the second half of 1982 and the whole of 1983. In the interest of simplicity, these two aberrant "year and a half" reports have been split into three year-long reports through interpolation.

References

External links
2005 Human Rights Report on São Tomé and Príncipe - US Department of State
Freedom of expression in São Tomé and Príncipe - IFEX
Freedom in the World 2011 Report , by Freedom House

 
Sao Tome and Principe
Law of São Tomé and Príncipe
Society of São Tomé and Príncipe