[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pencil detonator

ble booster was attached. However, plastic explosives (which did not require a booster) were particularly useful during the sabotage missions in which they were often employed. There were also a number of special charges issued with a time pencil already incorporated e.g. some types of limpet mines.

After being activated a pencil detonator is silent in operation. It does not fizz or make any other noise. However, unlike clockwork timers, pencil detonators only give approximate time delays. For example, a 2-hour pencil detonator might be accurate to plus or minus 5 minutes, whereas the version offering a 6-hour delay could have a precision of plus or minus 15 minutes. Both No. 9 and No. 10 delays were also significantly affected by the ambient temperature, and were issued along with a chart of temperature corrections—but no thermometer. For example, a pencil detonator designed to fire 24 hours after being activated could in reality give a 30-hour delay - if the weather was very cold. Similarly, during hot weather pencil detonators designed to fire after a 12-hour delay could in reality trigger detonation within 10 hours. The main virtue of pencil detonators is their small size and light weight, plus the fact that they are very quick and easy to use. These are important points during covert operations.

Usage 
For very high-value targets it is recommended that two pencil detonators from different batches be used together. That way if one detonator fails the other will almost surely blow the charge. Note that if both detonators were going to work, the explosion will occur at the earlier of the two times; thus this method will also slightly reduce the average delay.

Pencil detonators saw heavy use during the Second World War by the Special Air Service, Special Operations Executive and groups such as the French Resistance. A number of pencil detonators were used to detonate the massive amatol charge hidden inside HMS Campbeltown during the St Nazaire Raid of 1942. The ship exploded over an hour later than anticipated.

Approximately 12 million pencil detonators were produced in Britain during the war. However, in recent years they have been superseded by electronic timers which are more accurate and provide much longer delay times.

The briefcase bomb used in the July 20 plot used a captured British pencil detonator inserted into a block of British plastic explosives weighing approximately two pounds. The bomb was set to 30 minutes and detonated as planned, but Hitler survived with minor injuries. Stauffenberg could not prepare the second block, though. He got rid of it while driving through the forest to the airfield. His driver, Leutnant Erich Kretz, reported seeing Werner von Haeften throw something into the woods in his mirror.

Cultural references 
Time pencils figure in the 1961 war movie The Guns of Navarone when an undercover explosives expert, portrayed by David Niven, finds that his stock has been rendered inoperative. Their use is also highlighted in the film Valkyrie during a part of the film detailing the July 20 plot.

See also
Percussion cap
Blasting cap
Exploding-bridgewire detonator
Slapper detonator
Primacord
Pencil bomb

References

External links

Schematic of a time pencil
Photograph of a time pencil (107 kB, JPEG)
Additional photographs of time pencils (269 kB, GIF)
Electronic fuze detection method (cannot detect pencil detonators)
Arms Tech LS-1 Time Delay - a modern pencil detonator which uses same operating principle as "Switch, No. 9, L Delay"

Detonators