[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Cecily of York

along with her sister, the newlyweds, princesses and other noble ladies. At the state dinner given the following Sunday, Cecily sat next to her sister the queen at "the most representative table in the chambers". It is also known that in May 1502, Cecily lent a certain amount of money to her sister.

In 1503, Cecily's position was shaken again when Queen Elizabeth died: she lost not only her sister, but also a close friend and patroness, on whose favour she could always count. According to Mary Anne Everett Green, the princess's grief was so great and prolonged that she could not attend the funeral, and although a mourning wardrobe was sewn for her, Cecily's name did not appear on the lists of mourners. Alison Weir suggests that Cecily did not attend the royal sister's funeral because she was out of favour with the king, because of her new marriage concluded without his consent, and if the princess were allowed to see Elizabeth on her last journey, this would mean that Henry VII forgave Cecily.

Third marriage
Some time after her sister's death, Cecily entered into her third and last marriage: her chosen spouse was Sir Thomas Kyme of Friskney, a Lincolnshire squire –according to Mary Anne Everett Green, the English royal family had never known such an unequal union. The exact date of the marriage is unknown: various sources indicate 1502, the period between the spring of 1502 and the beginning of 1504 or a few months after the death of Cecily's sister, Queen Elizabeth of York in 1503, but before the meeting of Parliament in January 1504.

At a meeting of Parliament in January 1504, Cecily, along with William Willoughby, 11th Baron Willoughby de Eresby, and three other men who claimed the Welles inheritance, petitioned the king. Cecily knew well that Henry VII would be happy with any of her actions that would put the princess under suspicion, and therefore she only said that she wanted to choose a spouse, guided by the principle of "convenience, not profit". However, she feared that her marriage might be used as an excuse to dispossess her of the property that Cecily had used as Viscountess Welles, and that the king would feign displeasure with her affairs as an excuse to seize her lands. To avoid this, Cecily decided to give the king a bribe, which was a small part of her income, and a promise to return the rest of the property within ten years after her death; thus the bulk of her husband's inheritance was to remain in Cecily's possession. In her petition, referring to the restitution previously made on the Welles estates for her late husband, in fact, she asked to cancel this restitution, leaving her husband's possessions to her if she outlived the king, and for ten years to the heirs of Welles, if she died earlier. The reasons why the other Welles heirs joined the petition are not clear, but it is likely that they received some benefits from the princess herself who would have being lost if Cecily was dispossessed from her late husband's inheritance. The petition ended with a plea from all the signatories (Cecily, her third husband Thomas Kyme and the heirs of her second husband) for the mercy of the King.

The reaction of the king to the petition and subsequent events are described inconsistently by historians. Mary Ann Everett Green writes that Henry VII endorsed the petition, approving it with the words "Let it be as it pleases". However, Rosemary Horrocks, James Panton and Garland Okerlund point out that the king reacted very harshly to the petition and the fact that Cecily married without his knowledge and consent: he deprived the princess of all the property received under the will of John Welles, and removed her from the court. Horrocks and Okerlund write that, thanks to the intercession of Lady Margaret Beaufort, part of the Welles estate was returned to Cecily for life; also, the King's mother allowed the couple to settle in her own property, Collyweston Palace near Stamford. At the same time, Everett Green reports that the couple lived in one of the estates of Cecily's late husband, and they managed all the property jointly.

There are no sources regarding the family from which Cecily's third husband came, and his name appears only in one official document: the princess's petition to the king. At court, Sir Thomas was called "Kyme of Lincolnshire", without being called by name; he may have been descended from an old Kyme family, whose heirs, at the time of the marriage of Thomas and Cecily, owned Kyme Tower near Boston, Lincolnshire. However, a number of sources report that the Kyme to whom Cecily was married came from the Isle of Wight, which can be indirectly confirmed by the fact that Cecily, according to several sources, died on that island; at the same time, sources linking the origin of the third husband of the princess with the Isle of Wight call him John, not Thomas.