[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Doug Richard

nment requested review of the apprenticeship system which was supported by all political parties and formed the basis for the reform of the apprenticeship system in the UK.

In 2013, Richard published his first Book, “How to Start a Creative Business”, on entrepreneurship in the creative industries.

Board memberships and non profits
Richard served as a Counsellor at One Young World in 2012, 2013 & 2015.

Richard is a former non-executive director of Innovate UK, the UK's Innovation Agency.

School for Startups
Richard founded School for Startups in 2008 to help people start their own businesses through training and support courses, and to help governments and regions drive economic growth based on the principles of entrepreneurial economics. The school has taught over 30,000 people how to start their own business. The school is best known for a series of high-profile programmes including:
 School for Creative Startups,  an accelerator for creative businesses,
 The Launcher Programme, a social lending partner of the Startup Loan Company,
 The Southwest Peninsula Programme, in partnership with the Regional Growth Fund, to help new businesses in the southwest region,
 Web Fuelled Business, bootcamps funded by the Department of Business, Innovation & Skills designed to help small businesses use the web to maximise sales, save money and go global.
 Windows of Opportunity, a series of bootcamps providing instruction on raising and investing money and funded by the Department of Business, Innovation & Skills.
 The Makegood Festival, an annual celebration of creativity and entrepreneurship running across a four-day festival, winner of the 2014 London Design Award. 
	The Nigeria Youth With Education Programme, This program, funded by the Department for International Development UK and the Nigerian Ministry of Finance, delivered free tuition through full day bootcamps, mentoring and distant learning support to young entrepreneurs in Nigeria.
	The School for Startups Romania. This 12-month learning program ran for two years, was offered in two major Romanian cities: Bucharest and Cluj over a two-year period. The EU institution, The Post Privatization Foundation, supported the program.
More recently Richard has focussed School for Startups on programs in developing countries. Recent programs include:
 The Colombia Creative program, a program funded by Innpulsa, the Innovation arm of the Colombian government, which taught and mentored Colombian startups in the creative industries become ready to go global
 The San Andres Projects, a series of project, focused on the Colombian department of San Andrés, Providencia y Santa Catalina, with the remit to re-shape the local tourism economy to permit more participation by local small businesses and entrepreneurs. The first stage was funded by a grant from the Foreign and Commonwealth's Prosperity Fund and the second stage was funded by the Colombian vice-ministry of Tourism and
 The Aldea program, a program initiated by Innpulsa to mentor small Colombian innovation businesses.

Allegations of Child Sex Offences
In January 2015, the Daily Mirror reported that Richard had been arrested on suspicion of rape involving a 13-year-old girl. Richard strongly denied the allegations.

On 7 September 2015, Richard was charged. He appeared before the City of London Magistrates' Court on 5 October and was bailed until his appearance at the Old Bailey in January 2016 for trial.

On 25 January 2016, Richard appeared at the Old Bailey, where he admitted sexual activity did occur but said it was consensual, believing her to be 17 at the time.  The court heard that the girl in question provided Richard her ID on a number of occasions showing that she was 17. On 29 January 2016, Richard was cleared of all charges against him.

References

Businesspeople from Buffalo, New York
American venture capitalists
Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion (2006)
American computer businesspeople
UCLA Anderson School of Management alumni
University of California, Berkeley alumni
Technology transfer
American expatriates in the United Kingdom
People acquitted of sex crimes
UCLA School of Law alumni
Living people
1958 births