[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles R. Floyd

financial step aided in the early years to provide more extensive funding for the institution, and it was the first legislation relating to the McDonald Observatory.  This important legislation provided for the development of the University of Texas McDonald Observatory into a world-class facility.

Other legislation
Floyd traveled to Austin from his district during the legislative sessions, a trip which his children remembered as being long and adventurous, taking four days. Many of the roads were dirt and gravel during those years.  He believed that the future of Texas lay in the development of the highway system, and his efforts were unbending in that direction. He supported the construction and maintenance by the state of county farm-to-market roads. In 1926, he authored and passed eight bills creating special road districts in Texas, and was thus a pioneer in the creation of the excellent state road system.

An avid supporter of women's rights, Floyd was joint author of the law permitting women to vote in primary elections and conventions in the state of Texas.  A special note should be taken of his resolutions which applauded a U.S. Senator for his advocacy of women's suffrage.

He was also joint author of the Floyd-Strickland Bill which provided improved housing rights for tenants and the Dean Prohibition Enforcement Law; he also questioned Governor James "Pa" Ferguson during the impeachment trial of 1917; and one of the first pieces of legislation he authored when he entered the Senate was a bill to erect a monument on the Capitol grounds to the Texans who fought and died in World War I, a monument which was not completed until 1961.

He also authored and jointly authored many other bills, and a full legislative history can be found at the Legislative Reference Library of Texas.

President Pro Tem
One of the high points of Floyd's career was his election as President Pro Tem of the Senate on the last day of the 37th Legislative Session.  It was a high honor and soundly supported by his fellow senators.

References

 The Legislative History of Senator Charles R. Floyd 1917 - 1929
 Louise Floyd Meyers Interview (Video Cassette) Austin, Tx 3/11/93
 The Historical Calendar of Education Legislation (CALN) 1917-1929
 The State of Texas Senate Journals 1917 - 1929
 The Handbook of Texas Online, A Digital Gateway to Texas History
 The Legislative Reference Library of Texas: Legislative Information

External links
 Historical society of Red River County, Texas

1881 births
1945 deaths
Texas state senators
Members of the Texas House of Representatives
20th-century American politicians
People from Red River County, Texas