[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Archives of Sweden

on the Nordic Battlegroup's coat of arms, removing the lion's penis to promote a more gender neutral image following protests from female soldiers.  The creator of the image at the National Archives, Vladimir A. Sagerlund, made the news in Sweden over his staunch disapproval of the change.

Holdings

The oldest document in the National Archives (listed in 2005) is a parchment from a missal, written in England in the late 10th century. The document came to Sweden via the British Christian missionary in Norway.  Under King Gustav Vasa in the 16th century, archiving expanded and national registry and chamber books, land records, and diplomatic treaties were collected in the National Archives.  Scrolls in Cyrillic writing from Novgorod were preserved in memory of the Swedish occupation from 1611 to 1617.  There is a wide variety of materials available, including documents from the ministry, parliament, and central authorities.  Documentation of government decisions from the 1840s to 1980s are available to researchers.  Around 100,000 maps and drawings of state civilian buildings from 1697 to 1993 are preserved in the archive.

Although the primary focus of the National Archives is government records, there are also some personal archives, which were in the past obtained via confiscations and seizures, and more recently as donations.  Personal collections include feudal archives from the 17th and 18th century, such as the Skokloster collection, Sjöholms, Stafsund and Ericsberg archives, and other archives of statesmen and cultural personalities.  There are also some archives of non-governmental associations and businesses, as well as news archives.

In 2015 the archival holdings amounted to approximately 750 kilometers of shelving - comprising mainly parchment and paper. The digital media holdings included 130 million digital images. The amount of documents increases continuously because of the delivery of documents from the Cabinet Office and other central agencies.

Novgorod Occupation Archives
The "Novgorod occupation archives" (Swedish: Ockupationsarkivet från Novgorod) is the name used since the 1960s for a unique collection of documents in the National Archives. They are written in Russian by Russian administrators of the city of Veliky Novgorod during the years 1611-1617 when the Swedish army occupied the city. The documents include both originals and copies that were intended to be sent to Moscow. When the Swedish army withdrew from the city, the commander Jacob De la Gardie collected these documents as useful evidence for the peace negotiations and brought them back to his quarters in Estonia. Later the collection was sent to Stockholm, where its importance as a source of Russian history was recognized in the mid-19th century. They were first catalogued in 1964 by Russian historian Sergei Dmitrievsky. An improved catalogue was printed and published in 2005. The documents (which comprise 30,000 pages) were initially microfilmed, and the monochrome microfilm later digitized. This digital archive is available online. The collection consists of two series. Series 1 has 141 books and series 2 has 368 scrolls.

Digital Collections and Access 
The National Archives is subject to open government, which means that the holdings in general are available to the public - including researchers and research-related individuals. The exception is made for confidential documents or certain perishable older material. Many of the oldest documents are, however, reproduced on microfilm or as digital images.

In 2017, the Swedish Parliament (Riksdag) awarded the Swedish National Archives 10 million SEK in order to make its digital collections available to the public free of charge.  The subscription charge for the digital collections was removed on February 1, 2018, and the Archives has announced further plans to move towards open and free access.  There are currently 180 million pages digitized, of which 65.5 million are accessible through the digital reading room (SVAR).  The National Archives is also responsible for the development and administration of Sweden's national portal for open data and public sector information, and future plans will focus on making the digital collections accessible as open, linkable, and machine-readable data that will be integrated into the open data from the public sector.

Newspapers 
In 2018, the research foundation Acadia donation 30 million SEK to digitize all of the copyright-free Swedish newspapers preserved by the Royal Library (KB), estimated at 1,250 titles.  Newspapers older than 115 years are free from copyright and when the project is expected to complete in 2022, the digitized newspapers will extend up to the year 1906.  The Royal Library and the National Archives have collaborated on digitization since 2010, and the digitization will take place at the National Archives Unit for Digitalization Media Conversion Center (MKC).