[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# World Conference against Racism 2001

eralship of the conference.

NGO repudiations of the NGO Forum's Declaration 
Several NGOs, including Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, and the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, disassociated themselves from the language of the NGO Forum's Declaration that dealt with Israel and with Jews.

Followups 
It seems unlikely to analysts that the United States will support another WCAR. However, the Declaration and Programme of Action did make provision for follow-up mechanisms. Mary Robinson stated in her closing address that the Conference was intended to be a beginning, not an end. Dr. Manning Marable, of Columbia University in New York, pointed out that one of the objectives of the Conference was to increase coordination in human rights activities, and to strengthen networks amongst those combating racism; and as such the actions of governments in response to the Conference are not the sole intended outcomes — actions by civil society and non-governmental agencies are also required.

One such follow-up provision is for national governments to provide the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights with reports on their actions towards implementing the recommendations in the Programme of Action. Another is for the Secretary General of the United Nations to appoint an expert body with the remit of following up on implementation. A third is a call for the establishment of a database of practical means for addressing racism, racial discrimination, and related intolerance.

A Permanent Memorial Trust Fund has also been established for the creation of a memorial at the New York United Nations site. The sculpture, to be titled the Permanent Memorial to the Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade, or the UN Slavery Memorial, is set to be completed in 2012.

By resolution #2002/68 of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights an Intergovernmental Working Group on the Effective Implementation of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action was established, which held its first meeting in January 2003 and which meets on an annual basis.

In resolution #61/149 of the United Nations General Assembly, passed in 2006, a Durban Review Conference was called. The conference took place in 2009, however, a number of countries expressed concern as a result of the 2001 conference. Some countries, including Australia, Canada, Germany, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, and the United States, boycotted the conference. The Czech Republic discontinued its attendance on the first day, and twenty-three other European Union countries sent low-level delegations. In an 18 April 2009 speech, President Barack Obama announced the United States' boycott of the 2009 Durban Review Conference, reaffirming the country's opposition to language perceived as anti-Israel and anti-Western.

The United Kingdom and other European countries remain undecided. On 17 February 2009, Foreign Office Minister Lord Malloch-Brown said: "If we can’t go forward now, we will withdraw. I was at the first conference. I have never seen such a disgraceful event in quite a long international life."

Influence 

The Institute for Global Jewish Affairs was founded, in part, as a response to the perceived antisemitism of the Durban conference.

Bernard-Henri Lévy credits the conference with being one of the inspirations for his book, Left in Dark Times: A Stand Against the New Barbarism.

See also 
 Israel and apartheid

Notes and references

Citations

Bibliography

Further reading

Conference and Forum texts and papers 
  — the text of the Declaration produced by the governments at the WCAR itself
  — the text of the Declaration produced by the NGOs at the NGO Forum

Analyses and greater detail 
 
 
  — an analysis of the NGO Forum by the Executive Director of NGO Monitor
 
 
 
  — discussion of other preparatory committee work
 
  — a personal and detailed account of the proceedings of the NGO Forum in the Kingsmead stadium by David Matas, who represented B'nai B'rith Canada there
  — an informational paper for NGOs about the Conference and the NGO Forum, circulated prior to the meetings

Anti-racism
New antisemitism
Anti-Zionism
Antisemitism in South Africa
Human rights
UNESCO
United Nations conferences
Reparations for slavery
Diplomatic conferences in South Africa
21st-century diplomatic conferences (Global)
2001 in international relations
History of Durban
August 2001 events in South Africa
September 2001 events in South Africa
2001 conferences
2001 in South Africa
South Africa and the United Nations
Transitional justice
Events in Durban