[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Roseville College

gin, while both develop personally to gain an understanding and tolerance of the other's culture.

Tanzania: The college has an ongoing relationship with Shalom (co-educational) Junior School and Bunda Girls Secondary School through fundraising and cultural engagement opportunities.

Notable alumni 

Diane Purkiss, author, editor, fellow and tutor of English at Keble College, Oxford (also attended Our Lady of the Rosary Convent and Stuartholme School)
Dr Jane Alver, Class of 1988. Alver is Director of Effectiveness and Engagement at the Australian Council for International Development. A dedicated lawyer, adviser and researcher, she was named as an Australian Financial Review 100 Woman of Influence (2018) for championing change in business and society.
Josi Ellem, Class of 2013. Ellem is a soprano in the Royal Academy Opera, London. Having studied at the Sydney Conservatorium of Music on a Geoffrey William Rothbury scholarship, she earned the highest mark ever awarded to a vocal student for her final recital. She is also a competent cellist and keen composer, and highly accomplished, award-winning vocalist.
Amelia Adams (née Charlton), Class of 1999. Adams is currently a Nine News Senior US Foreign Correspondent, after an initial posting as a European correspondent based in the UK. A career journalist, she is well respected for her insightful and informative reporting style.
Sue Lennox (née Grieves), Class of 1970. Lennix is an environmental educator and social enterprise founder – one of NSW's most esteemed change agents and named the NSW Senior Australian of the Year 2020. For three decades, the co-founder of OzGreen dedicated her life to sustainability projects in more than 1,600 communities around the world including Australia, India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Latin America and East Timor.
Heidi Bayliss (née Brownrigg), Class of 1989. Bayliss is currently the CEO of Mater Hospital.
Jessica Henry, Class of 1985. She is Head of Risk and Governance at the Children's Cancer Institute, alongside an accomplished career in banking and finance, and women's cricket – over 35 years, she has made 500+ appearances in women's grade cricket (winning eleven Clubwomen of the Year awards and six premierships) and is a champion of young women in the sport.
Dr Stephanie Gardner, Class of 2006. Gardneris currently a Science and Technology Australia Superstar of STEM, encouraging young men and women in STEM fields while also working as a Postdoctoral Research Associate at the University of New South Wales’ Centre for Marine Science and Innovation. She studies bacteria in tropical and temperate reef organisms around the world, such as Hawaii, New Caledonia, Tahiti, Sulawesi, Spain, PNG, Fiji, the Cook Islands and Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
Rosemary Marriott AM, Class of 1957. Marriott received her Member of the Order of Australia in 1992 for her outstanding contribution to people with disabilities having established The Merry Makers in 1978. The Merry Makers provides music therapy in signing and dance to children and adults with intellectual or physical disabilities, winning numerous awards including the Australian Group of the Year (1992). Marriott died in 1994, and her legacy lives on in her Merry Makers.
Emma Sholl, Class of 1997. Sholl is currently the Associate Principal Flute (Robert and Janet Constable Chair) with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra. She was one of the youngest musicians ever appointed, working with the orchestra from 19 years old before being awarded Second Flute. Among her early accolades, Emma won several prestigious awards including the National Orchestral Flute Competition (1999), the ABC/Symphony Australia Young Performers Award (2001), and the National Solo Flute Competition (2002). Sholl is also a lecturer in flute at the Sydney Conservatorium, and teachers for the Australian Youth Orchestra and the Australian National Academy of Music.
Lucy Allen, Class of 2013. Allen is an associate lecturer in Transdisciplinary Innovation at the University of Technology Sydney, where she influences thought about the place of analytical thinking, creativity and active learning in tertiary education.
Michelle Cox, Class of 2009. Cox first represented Australia in softball at 18-years of age, winning bronze at the 2012 World Championships. She became an Australian Olympian at the 2020 Tokyo games, scoring Australia's first run in the competition. She also has a degree in accounting from San Jose State University, California, earning Academic All-WAC and first-team All-WAC honours.
Mollie Dive, Australian cricketer

See also 
 List of non-government schools in New South Wales

References

External links 
 Roseville College website