[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Binayak Sen

t which had rejected his bail plea on 10 February 2011. Dr. Sen has sought bail contending that the trial court has erred in convicting him as there was no substantial evidence against him. Human rights and social activists have described Dr. Sen's conviction and sentence as "politically motivated."

The Supreme Court on 11 March 2011 issued notice to the Chhattisgarh government on a petition by rights activist Binayak Sen seeking bail and stay on his life imprisonment imposed by a sessions court for his links with Maoists. A bench of Justices' H.S. Bedi and C.K. Prasad asked the Chhattisgarh government to file its response within four weeks. The bench passed the order despite counsel for Dr. Sen seeking adjournment of the matter.
On 15 April 2011, the Supreme Court of India has granted bail to Dr. Binayak Sen, after questioning the sedition charge against him and adding that "the question of passing letters or documents does not arise." However the apex court said it was giving no reason for granting bail to 61-year-old Sen and left it to the satisfaction of the trial court concerned to impose the conditions for his release on bail.

Media reports said that no evidence of sedition had been produced against the accused by the Chhattisgarh Government. According to The Hindu, one of the two judges told the senior state counsel ""We are a democratic country. He may be a sympathiser. That does not make him guilty of sedition." Drawing an analogy, he asked Mr. Lalit: “if Mahatma Gandhi's autobiography is found in somebody's place, is he a Gandhian? No case of sedition is made out on the basis of materials in possession unless you show that he was actively helping or harbouring them [Maoists].""

The case has generated interests of Indian and foreign NGOs and governments.

 See also 
 Kartam Joga
 People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL)
 Sudhir Dhawale

 Publications 
 Minnie Vaid (2011) A Doctor to Defend: The Binayak Sen Story. Publisher: Rajpal  PP: 243, 
 Ilina Sen, Inside Chhattisgarh: A Political Memoir.'' Penguin Books India, 2014. . (Ilina Sen is the spouse of Binayak Sen)

References

External links 

 Free Binayak Sen Campaign Website
 http://www.thebrahmosamaj.net/articles/binayaksen.html

Living people
1950 births
Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by India
Brahmos
Indian civil rights activists
Indian paediatricians
Indian human rights activists
Naxalite–Maoist insurgency
Gandhi International Peace Award recipients
20th-century Indian medical doctors
People from Raipur, Chhattisgarh
Medical doctors from Chhattisgarh
Activists from Chhattisgarh
Indian health activists
Indian activists
Bengali activists
21st-century Bengalis
Bengali Hindus
Activists from West Bengal