[Source: PubMed]

90. Harv Bus Rev. 2003 Feb;81(2):80-7, 125.

AIDS is your business.

Rosen S(1), Simon J, Vincent JR, MacLeod W, Fox M, Thea DM.

Author information:
(1)Boston University School of Public Health's Center for International Health, 
USA.

If your company operates in a developing country, AIDS is your business. While 
Africa has received the most attention, AIDS is also spreading swiftly in other 
parts of the world. Russia and Ukraine had the fastest-growing epidemics last 
year, and many experts believe China and India will suffer the next tidal wave 
of infection. Why should executives be concerned about AIDS? Because it is 
destroying the twin rationales of globalization strategy-cheap labor and 
fast-growing markets--in countries where people are heavily affected by the 
epidemic. Fortunately, investments in programs that prevent infection and 
provide treatment for employees who have HIV/AIDS are profitable for many 
businesses--that is, they lead to savings that outweigh the programs' costs. Due 
to the long latency period between HIV infection and the onset of AIDS symptoms, 
a company is not likely to see any of the costs of HIV/AIDS until five to ten 
years after an employee is infected. But executives can calculate the present 
value of epidemic-related costs by using the discount rate to weigh each cost 
according to its expected timing. That allows companies to think about expenses 
on HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment programs as investments rather than merely 
as costs. The authors found that the annual cost of AIDS to six corporations in 
South Africa and Botswana ranged from 0.4% to 5.9% of the wage bill. All six 
companies would have earned positive returns on their investments if they had 
provided employees with free treatment for HIV/AIDS in the form of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART), according to the mathematical model the authors 
used. The annual reduction in the AIDS "tax" would have been as much as 40.4%. 
The authors' conclusion? Fighting AIDS not only helps those infected; it also 
makes good business sense.

PMID: 12577655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]