[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Roman external wars and battles

The following is a list of Roman external wars and battles fought by the ancient Roman Kingdom, Roman Republic and Roman Empire against external enemies, organized by date. For internal civil wars, revolts and rebellions, see List of Roman civil wars and revolts.

8th century BC

Wars with the Latins and the Sabines (for the Rape of the Sabine Women)
Conquest of Cameria 
War with Fidenae and Veii

7th century BC
Second war with Fidenae and Veii 
Second Sabine War 
Roman–Latin wars

6th century BC

Roman-Sabine wars
War with the Volsci 
War with Gabii
War with the Rutuli
Roman-Etruscan wars
  509 BC – (legendary) Overthrow of the Roman monarchy – According to the traditional account, Roman aristocrats expel Etruscan king Lucius Tarquinius Superbus, abolish the Roman Kingdom and establish the Roman Republic. Many details are generally accepted to be fictional, but scholars disagree about the degree to which the legendary narratives may or may not have a foundation in historical fact.
 509 BC – Battle of Silva Arsia – The Romans defeated the forces of Tarquinii and Veii led by the deposed king Lucius Tarquinius Superbus. One of the Roman consuls, Lucius Junius Brutus, is killed in battle.
  508 BC – War between Clusium and Aricia – According to Livy, King Lars Porsena of the Etruscan city of Clusium besieged Rome on behalf of Tarquinius Superbus. The outcome is debated, but tradition states that it was a Roman victory. The Clusians then besieged the Latin town of Aricia, which received support from the Latin League as well as the Greek colony of Cumae and destroyed the Clusian army. Livy doesn't say whether the Romans participated as allies of Aricia, but defeated and surviving Etruscan soldiers were given refuge and medical treatment in Rome. He claimed some who stayed behind were given homes in a neighbourhood later known as the 'Tuscan quarter'.
Pometian Revolt (503–502 BC)
 502 BC – Battle of Pometia – The Romans put down the revolt of Pometia and Cora.

5th century BC 
 First Latin War (498–411 BC)
 497 BC – Battle of Lake Regillus – Aulus Postumius Albus Regillensis defeats Tarquinius Superbus.
 495 BC – Battle of Aricia – consul Publius Servilius Priscus Structus defeats the Aurunci.
  Wars with the Volsci and the Aequi (495 - 446 BC)
 493 BC – Battle of Corioli – the Volscian army is defeated thanks to the vigilance of Gnaeus Marcius.
 482 BC – Battle of Antium – the Volsci defeat consul Lucius Aemilius Mamercus.
 482 BC – Battle of Longula – consul Lucius Aemilius Mamercus defeats the Volsci the day after his defeat in the Battle of Antium.
 458 BC – Battle of Mount Algidus – Cincinnatus defeats the Aequi
 446 BC – Battle of Corbio – Titus Quinctius Capitolinus Barbatus leads Roman troops to defeat the Aequi and the Volsci.
 480 BC – Battle of Veii (480 BC) – Consuls Marcus Fabius Vibulanus and Gnaeus Manlius Cincinnatus win a heavy battle against Veians and their Etruscan allies. Gnaeus Manlius Cincinnatus and former consul Quintus Fabius are slain.
 477 BC –
 Battle of the Cremera – All the Fabii except Quintus Fabius Vibulanus are killed in battle with the Veii|Veians.
 Battle of the Temple of Hope – Consul Gaius Horatius Pulvillus fights indecisive battle with the Etruscans.
 Battle of Colline Gate (477 BC) – Consul Gaius Horatius Pulvillus has indecisive victory over the Etruscan civilization soon after the Battle of the Temple of Hope.

4th century BC
 Roman-Etruscan Wars 
 396 BC – Battle of Veii – Romans complete conquest of Veii
 390 BCE – Battle of the Allia – Gauls defeat the Romans, then sack Rome.
 First Samnite War (343–341 BC)
 342 BC – Battle of Mount Gaurus – Roman general Marcus Valerius Corvus defeats the Samnites.
 342 BC – Battle of Saticula – Roman general Aulus Cornelius Cossus Arvina barely escapes disaster and manages to defeat the Samnites.
 341 BC – Battle of Suessula – Roman consul Marcus Valerius Corvus defeats the Samnites once more.
 Latin War (340–338 BC)
 339 BC – Battle of Vesuvius – Romans under P. Decius Mus and T. Manlius Imperiosus Torquatus defeat the rebellious Latins.
 338 BC – Battle of Trifanum – Roman general T. Manlius Imperiosus Torquatus decisively defeats the Latins.
 Second Samnite War (326–304 BC)
 321 BC – Battle of the Caudine Forks – Romans under Spurius Postumius Albinus and T. Verturius Calvinus are defeated by the Samnites under Gaius Pontius.
 316 BC – Battle of Lautulae – Romans are defeated by the Samnites.
 305 BC – Battle of Bovianum – Roman consuls M. Fulvius and L. Postumius decisively defeat the Samnites.
 310 BC – Battle of Lake Vadimo – Romans, led by dictator Lucius Papirius Cursor, defeat the Etruscans.

3rd century BC