[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marc Bridge-Wilkinson

uary, which ended his contribution to the campaign. The problem was a floating bone in his big toe. He made 26 appearances in 2009–10, as Carlisle posted a mid-table finish. He also made an appearance at Wembley Stadium in the Football League Trophy Final, which ended in a 4–1 defeat to Southampton.

Darlington
Searching for first team football, in October 2010 he joined Conference National outfit Darlington on loan for one month. After the midfielder impressed manager Mark Cooper, this one month then got extended until January.

On 18 January 2011, he signed for Darlington on a permanent basis after he was released from Carlisle United two days earlier. He scored the first hat-trick of his career in a 6–1 victory against Eastbourne Borough on 12 February. All Bridge-Wilkinson's goals, which included two penalties, came in the first half and within the space of 14 minutes. At the end of the campaign he picked up the second significant honour of his career, as Darlington lifted the 2011 FA Trophy with a 1–0 victory over Mansfield Town at Wembley. Darlington suffered financial difficulties during Bridge-Wilkinson's time at the club and his contract was terminated on 16 January 2012, along with the rest of the playing squad and caretaker manager Craig Liddle; he stated that "to say I feel sick is an understatement". However a surprise decision meant that the club would continue to complete their remaining fixtures, and Bridge-Wilkinson returned to Darlington on a non-contract basis. Darlington were relegated at the end of the 2011–12 season, having been deducted ten points for entering administration and as the club reformed to Darlington 1883 in the Northern Football League, Bridge-Wilkinson left the club and had a trial at League Two outfit Accrington Stanley.

Style of play
Bridge-Wilkinson was a good technical midfielder who had an eye for goal. He had good composure, movement and possession skills.

Coaching career
Bridge-Wilkinson spent three years as a coach at the Academy at Huddersfield Town, before he was appointed under-14 coach at Liverpool's Academy in 2015. He was promoted to under-16 coach in July 2018 and then to under-18 coach in May 2020.

Career statistics

Honours
Port Vale
Football League Trophy: 2001

Carlisle United
Football League Trophy runner-up: 2010

Darlington
FA Trophy: 2011

References

1979 births
Living people
Footballers from Coventry
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Derby County F.C. players
Carlisle United F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Stockport County F.C. players
Bradford City A.F.C. players
Darlington F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Association football coaches
Huddersfield Town A.F.C. non-playing staff
Liverpool F.C. non-playing staff