[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1903 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1903 in the United Kingdom.

Incumbents
 Monarch – Edward VII
 Prime Minister – Arthur Balfour (Coalition)
 Parliament – 27th

Events
 1 January – Edward VII is proclaimed Emperor of India.
 19 January – first transatlantic radio broadcast between United States and Britain.
 27 January – fire at Colney Hatch Lunatic Asylum kills 51.
 12 February – Randall Davidson enthroned as Archbishop of Canterbury, a position he will hold until he retires 25 years later.
 13 February – Venezuelan crisis. After agreeing to arbitration in Washington, Britain, Germany and Italy reach a settlement with Venezuela, resulting in the Washington Protocols. The naval blockade that began in December 1902 will be lifted, and Venezuela commits 30% of its customs duties to settling claims.
 26–27 February – "Ulysses" Storm: A severe windstorm tracks across Ireland, moving on to cross the north of England and Scotland.
 3 March – the Admiralty announces plans to build Rosyth Dockyard as a naval base on the Firth of Forth at Rosyth.
 24 March & 3 May – Derby earthquakes.
 1 April – Midwives Act 1902 comes into effect, regulating the profession of midwifery in England and Wales. 
 14 April – Aberdeen Football Club is established.
 18 April – Bury F.C. beat Derby County by an all-time record 6 goals to nil to win the 1903 FA Cup Final.
 23 April – Budget removes Corn Duty.
 29 May – Bradford City Football Club is established.
 c. June – Osea Island off Maldon, Essex, is bought by Frederick Nicholas Charrington to provide an alcohol addiction treatment centre.
 19 June – Caernarfon earthquake.
 7 July – British take over the Fulani empire.
 August – 2nd Congress of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party moves from Brussels to London.
 14 August – first Poor Prisoners' Defence Act provides for limited legal aid in criminal cases with effect from 1904.
 September – First Garden City Ltd formed to develop Letchworth.
 9 September – Rock Sand completes the English Triple Crown by finishing first in the Epsom Derby, 2,000 Guineas and St Leger.
 16 September – Joseph Chamberlain resigns as Colonial Secretary.
 1 October – the University of Liverpool becomes independent of Victoria University.
 10 October – foundation of the militant Women's Social and Political Union by Emmeline and Christabel Pankhurst in Manchester.
 31 October – opening of Hampden Park football ground in Glasgow in Scotland.
 October:
 Opening of Willow Tearooms, Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow, designed by Charles Rennie Mackintosh for Catherine Cranston.
 The wettest month in the EWP series with , beating November 1852 with 
 2 November – Daily Mirror launched as a newspaper for women, run by women.
 ? December – the remains of "Cheddar Man" are found within Gough's Cave in Cheddar Gorge, Britain's oldest complete human skeleton, dating to approximately 7150 BCE.
 10 December – William Randal Cremer is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.

Undated
 "Typhoo Tipps" tea first marketed.
 Montague Burton establishes a business retailing ready-made men's suits in Chesterfield, Derbyshire, origin of the Burton and Arcadia Group brands.
 Percy Furnivall carries out the first known case of cardiac surgery in Britain.

Publications
 Edward Harold Begbie's novel Lost in Blunderland (under the pseudonym Caroline Lewis).
 Samuel Butler's semi-autobiographical novel The Way of All Flesh (posthumous).
 George Gissing's semi-autobiographical novel The Private Papers of Henry Ryecroft.
 John Morley's biography The Life of Gladstone, which sells more than 25,000 copies in its first year.