[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

Reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War came from states on all continents, supranational bodies, individuals and international NGOs, as well as political lobbyists in the United States.

Supranational bodies

Arab League
The Arab League, in the words of Saudi Arabia's foreign minister, Prince Saud Al-Faisal, has called Hezbollah's attacks on Israel "unexpected, inappropriate, and irresponsible acts." With the League fearing a "widening of tension and possible Israeli strike against Syria," Syrian Vice President Farouk al-Sharaa blamed Israel for the escalating violence in Lebanon and the Palestinian territories, stating: "It’s up to the resistance – both the Lebanese and the Palestinian – to decide what they are doing and why are they fighting."

Following a meeting of Arab League foreign ministers in Cairo on 16 July, Secretary-General Amr Moussa declared that the "Middle East peace process has failed. The whole process should now be sent back to the Security Council for a complete overhaul."

European Union
Finland, which held the European Union's rotating presidency, issued the following statement:The European Union is greatly concerned about the disproportionate use of force by Israel in Lebanon in response to attacks by Hezbollah on Israel. The presidency deplores the loss of civilian lives and the destruction of civilian infrastructure. The imposition of an air and sea blockade on Lebanon cannot be justified.On 28 July 2006, a senior EU delegation threw its support behind the 7-point plan of Lebanese Prime Minister Fouad Siniora. Finnish Foreign Minister Erkki Tuomioja, representing the EU presidency, said Siniora's plan was a "good basis to reach an agreement," and that he was "struck by the unity of the Lebanese government."

On 8 August 2006, the EU issued a memo in which it outlined its response to the conflict.

United Nations
Geir Pedersen, the top UN official in Lebanon, said "Hezbollah’s action escalates the already tense situation along the Blue Line and is an act of very dangerous proportions," in a statement. Jan Egeland, a top United Nations humanitarian official, said that the Israeli response is in violation of international law. He was equally critical of Hezbollah and Hamas for abducting Israeli soldiers, saying that those who had seized Israeli soldiers and fired rockets into Israel from southern Lebanon bore their share of the blame. Egeland also criticized Hezbollah for using the civilian population as cover, telling the BBC:I also clearly see that Hezbollah is trying to blend into the civilian population in too many places and they bear also a heavy responsibility for this. They do not seem to care that they really inflict a lot of suffering on their own population.UN Secretary General Kofi Annan demanded that Hezbollah immediately free the two captured Israeli soldiers, and sent a three-man party to the Middle East to urge countries to show restraint. On 17 July 2006, Annan and UK Prime Minister Tony Blair called for an international force to be sent to Lebanon to stop the attacks on Israel by Hezbollah. Blair said that the force could "stop the bombardment coming over into Israel and therefore gives Israel a reason to stop its attacks on Hezbollah." On 19 July, Annan went on to condemn Israel's use of force: "I condemn without reservations the attack in southern Lebanon, and demand that Israeli troops be released immediately." The next day, Annan demanded both sides stop all violence immediately, condemning Hezbollah for sparking the conflict but also attacking Israel for its "excessive use of force."

According to Annan, the "three vital reasons" for "immediate cessation of hostilities" were:

 "prevent further loss of innocent life and the infliction of further suffering;"
 "to allow full humanitarian access to those in need;" and
 "give diplomacy the chance to work out a practical package of actions that would provide a lasting solution to the current crisis."

On 26 July, the United States blocked the UN Security Council from issuing a statement that would have condemned Israel's bombing of a UN post on the Lebanon border that killed four military observers overnight.

On 29 July, Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Jan Egeland appealed for a 72-hour truce to allow for humanitarian relief of the civilian population in Lebanon. This was later disputed by the Israelis, who said that all relief efforts were already ongoing. On 30 July, following the bombing of Qana by Israeli Air Force (IAF), Annan condemned the attack and urged the UN Security Council to also condemn it:We must condemn this action in the strongest possible terms, and I appeal to you [the Security Council] to do likewise.... The tragic events in Qana remind us that, ten years ago over 100 people who had taken refuge in this same village suffered a similar fate. We must deliver the region from this seemingly endless cycle of violence.

Others