[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Fleck (footballer)

John Alexander Fleck (born 24 August 1991) is a Scottish professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for  club Sheffield United.

He began his career with Rangers, making his senior debut in 2008 aged 16, being hyped in the media as a future star, and later spending a period on loan to Blackpool. In 2012 he transferred to Coventry City, remaining there until 2016 when he joined Sheffield United, helping the club achieve two promotions in three years, moving up from League One to the Premier League.

Early life
Fleck was born in Glasgow and was brought up in the city's Yoker district; he was educated at Knightswood Secondary School. His uncle, former Scotland international Robert Fleck, played for Rangers, Chelsea and Norwich in the 1980s and 1990s.

Club career

Rangers

Fleck began his career in the Rangers youth teams; he played in their 5–0 Scottish Youth Cup victory over Celtic on 26 April 2007. On 12 July 2007, Fleck was called up to take part in the full squad pre-season tour of Germany, and was handed his debut for the first team against SV Lippstadt 08 on 15 July 2007, becoming the first 15-year-old to play for the first team since Derek Ferguson in 1982. Fleck impressed and scored in a 3–1 friendly victory over Sportfreunde Lotte in the next friendly game.

On 25 August 2007, just a day after his 16th birthday, Fleck was included for the first time in the Rangers first team squad for a competitive match against Kilmarnock. He made his competitive debut on 23 January 2008 in the Scottish Cup game against East Stirlingshire and made his league debut on 22 May in the final league game of the season against Aberdeen. Two days later, Fleck became the youngest ever player to play in a senior British cup final, by appearing as a substitute in the 2008 Scottish Cup Final against Queen of the South. He gained his first start for Rangers against Falkirk on 17 January 2009, earning the man of the match award for his performance. Five days before this, The Times had placed Fleck seventh in their Top 50 Rising Stars of football list.

Fleck scored his first competitive goal in a 2–0 league victory over Dundee United at Ibrox on 31 January 2009. The goal was a 78th-minute penalty, awarded after Mihael Kovačević's challenge had brought Fleck to the ground. Fleck's talent, precocious performances, technique, vision and work-rate led him to be heralded as "Scotland's Wayne Rooney".

It was reported in August 2009 that Fleck had been dropped from the Rangers first-team after a training ground "bust-up" with the assistant manager, Ally McCoist. On 26 March 2010, Fleck signed a new three-year contract. That summer, he had a strong pre-season but then suffered a hamstring injury early in the campaign which hampered his progress.

With first team chances in short supply at Rangers, Fleck agreed to move to Sheffield United on a season-long loan at the end of the 2011 summer transfer window but the deal subsequently fell through as the paperwork was not completed before the deadline. In January 2012, having appeared to have seized a fresh chance in the team at Rangers a few weeks earlier, Fleck signed for Championship club Blackpool on loan, despite renewed interest from Sheffield United.

In June 2012, Fleck lodged an objection against his contract being transferred to the newco set up by Charles Green. PFA Scotland had previously commented that players were entitled to become free agents if they objected to the transfer.

Coventry City
On 4 July 2012, Fleck joined League One club Coventry City after he rejected his Rangers contract being transferred to the new company. Rangers were reported to have a sell-on agreement, meaning they would be entitled to a percentage of any transfer fee Coventry subsequently received for the player. Fleck scored his first Coventry goal in a 4–1 loss away to Shrewsbury Town from the penalty spot on 18 September 2012. He struggled to nail down a starting spot in the team during his first season at the club, particularly during the reign of Mark Robins, although he went on to make 35 appearances and scored three times.

The arrival of Steven Pressley as Coventry City manager in March 2013 saw Fleck regain a starting spot in the Coventry City line-up, starting every game of the remaining 2012–13 season in a deep-lying central midfield role. Fleck remained first-choice for the following season which Coventry City played at Northampton Town's Sixfields Stadium and played a key role in the team as they overcame a 10-point deduction to mount an unlikely play-off push for the first half of the season.