[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kekuni Blaisdell

As a major speaker, Blaisdell emphasized that the health of Kanaka Maoli is connected to the 'āina, and to  preservation of cultural traditions and knowledge of one's own history and way of life.  (This later became the basis for an M. Oneha dissertation, which Blaisdell nurtured and supported.)3,5

Nā Pu'uwai. In 1986, Blaisdell joined the board of Na Pu'uwai, a Native Hawaiian Health Care organization of the island of Moloka'i, with Emmett Aluli and Helen O'Connor. Na Pu'uwai became the Moloka'i-Lana'i Native Health Care System and conducted a study that demonstrated that the traditional Kanaka Maoli diet lowered blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels, thereby reducing risk for heart disease. (This later became the basis for the Waianae diet, popularized by T Shintani.) This study intensified interest in growing and eating traditional foods throughout the islands and invigorated the organization of health fairs in Kanaka Maoli communities to revitalize preparation and propagation of foods and other traditional medicines and healing practices.  It was also one of the first studies on Kanaka Maoli health conducted largely by Kanaka Maoli themselves.3

Director, Center for Hawaiian Studies, University of Hawai'i at Manoa. Blaisdell served as Interim Director from 1987-1988. Blaisdell served on the Dissertation committees for nearly a dozen Native Hawaiian PhD candidates, including Lilikala Kame'eleihiwa and Kamana'opono Crabbe. He has helped numerous candidates write  PhD papers, including Malcolm Chun.1,2,5

E Ola Mau and Papa Ola Lokahi. Blaisdell was a pioneer in advocating for accessible and culturally appropriate healthcare for Native Hawaiians.  He provided dramatic documentation of worsening Kanaka Maoli health conditions.

After authoring the critical health report for the United States Congress Native Hawaiians Study Commission in 1983, he researched and wrote a compelling report identifying the health needs of Native Hawaiians entitled "E Ola Mau." The report was funded by the US Public Health Services and presented at the East-West Center in December 1985.

The following year,  E Ola Mau became an organization of Native Hawaiian Health professionals formed to implement the recommendations of the report. Blaisdell was among members of E Ola Mau who testified for the Native Hawaiian Health Bill before the US Congress in 1986, 1987 and 1988. The bill was passed in October 1988 with final language provided by members of EOM to establish five Native Hawaiian Health Care Systems on five islands. The bill specified that traditional practices be integrated with services offering western health practices. The organization Papa Ola Lokahi (POL) was formed to provide coordination and oversight.

Sovereignty Movement. Blaisdell credits Puhipau Ahmad and Soli Niheu for inviting him to help start the Sovereignty Movement in the 1960s. Ahmad (Na Maka O Ka Aina) became the "eyes" of the movement, documenting evictions of Native Hawaiians from their homes at Sand Island and elsewhere. Niheu was the "heart" of the movement, participating in demonstrations, and Blaisdell became the "brains," researching and writing.  It was Blaisdell who, with his own computer, copying machine, and checkbook, created the Native Hawaiian Tribunal, in which Blaisdell gathered an international panel of judges, flew the judges from island to island and asked Native Hawaiians on each island to testify as to how they had been affected by the overthrow of the monarchy, by annexation, and by statehood.  Disposition of the tribunal documents are now under dispute. Blaisdell has specified to his attorney specifically where he would like them to reside.

Other positions and awards
1987-1989  Wai'anae Coast Comprehensive Health Center Board of Directors.

1988-2006. Ke Ola Mamo, co-founder, board member.
1989. Hawai'i Medical Association (HMSA) Physician of the Year.

1989. Pro Kanaka Maoli Independence Working Group co-founder, convener. Ka Pakaukau, co-founder, convenor.

1990 Honpa Honwanji Living Treasure

1992-3. Convenor, Kanaka Maoli Tribunal Komike Covenor.

1994. Papa Ola Lokahi Ka'onohi Award .

1996. Petra Foundation Fellow in Washington, DC. http://petrafoundation.org/fellows/kekuni-blaisdell/index.html

1997. Asian and Pacific Island American Health Forum Lifetime Achievement Award in San Francisco

1998. Ahahui O na Kauka, charter member, board member.

2000. University of Chicago Alumni Community Service Award.

2001. Consultant, Native Hawaiian Center of Excellence, Deptartment of Native Hawaiian Health, University of Hawaiʻi JABSOM.

2003.  Prof Emeritus of Medicine, JABSOM.

Recipient of the Republic of Palau Joint House and Senate Commendation Resolution and Pacific 
Basin Medical Association Recognition and Appreciation Award.

2007. Kekuni Blaisdell Endowment Lectureship was formed at the University of Hawaii by Osamu Fukuyama, M.D.