[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Empire (Card novel)

is truly the case. No indication is given as to how Torrent will use his power, setting the novel up for a sequel.

Setting
The leader of the "Progressive Restoration" rebellion movement in the book, Aldo Verus, is often seen as corresponding the real-life liberal financier George Soros.

Reception

The novel's political stance has received both praise and derision. Booklist commended the novel for being "heartfelt and sobering" and expressed approval for "the author's message about the dangers of extreme political polarization and the need to reassert moderation and mutual citizenship." Other critics were less favourable. "Right-wing rhetoric trumps the logic of story and character in this (...) implausibly plotted departure from Card’s bestselling science fiction," wrote Publishers Weekly. Library Journal assessed the novel as "entertaining, though not one of Card's best efforts," and expressed reservations about its tendency to "lean heavily to the right" and sound "more like social commentary than fiction".  In Locus, Gary K. Wolfe faulted the novel for constructing a world where "insanity is mostly the province of liberalism" and compared the characters and dialogue to "Mattel action figures" and "bumper stickers and political-convention applause lines." He also dismissed its afterword's claim of impartiality as a false centrism.

In addition, the novel has received praise for its action. Booklist characterized it as a "relentless thriller," praising its plot and pacing: "Intriguing plot wrinkles come fore and aft of those basic developments, there are many deftly shaped supporting players, and major shocks explode in a split second (...) Moreover, all the action doesn't obscure the author's message (...); indeed, it drives it home." Entertainment Weekly praised the story as a "blistering read" in which "Card plots hard-boiled action just as well as Tom Clancy, and layers in character detail and dialogue you'll never find in a Jack Ryan novel."

It has a rating of 3.4 out of 5 on Goodreads out of 8000 votes.

Awards 
The novel was nominated for the Prometheus Award for Best Novel in 2007.

Adaptations

Video game 
Empire is not an original Orson Scott Card project, but rather stems from the development of the Empire video game.  The game was being developed by the brothers Donald and Geremy Mustard, founders of the Chair Entertainment Group development studio until it was canceled. Card was contacted by Donald Mustard and offered the chance to develop the game's storyline as well as a novel to set the series into action. The Xbox Live Arcade Game Shadow Complex was announced by Donald Mustard to be a tie-in to the second installment of Orson Scott Card's Empire Trilogy and is a prequel to  the Empire novel that is developed by ChAIR.

Film
The rights to a film version of Empire have been acquired by Joel Silver and Warner Bros.

Sequel
At the video game convention E3 it was revealed by Donald Mustard of Chair Entertainment that the Xbox Live Arcade game Shadow Complex will serve as a tie-in to the second installment of the Empire trilogy, Hidden Empire, which was released on December 22, 2009. In a developer's diary for the video game Card stated that the game serves as a prequel to the original book. The game takes place a few hours after the vice president is killed and ends within a 24-hour period of its opening. It is also noteworthy that Orson Scott Card was approached by Chair to start the trilogy.

See also 

 List of works by Orson Scott Card
 Orson Scott Card

References

External links 

 About the novel Empire from Card's website
 

2006 American novels
The Empire Duet
Libertarian science fiction books
Novels by Orson Scott Card
2006 science fiction novels
Tor Books books
American science fiction novels
Military science fiction novels
Second American Civil War speculative fiction