[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iowa International Center

location of Iowa International Center's conversation circles.  The goal of these conversation circles is to provide a more laid back environment for both native and non-native English speakers to brush up on their skills or to help others learn English.

International visitors

Community Connections

The Community Connections Program, managed by the Bureau for Europe and Eurasia at the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and administered by World Learning, is designed to promote public diplomacy through the exchange of cultural ideas and values among participants, U.S. families and local community host organizations. It seeks to establish and strengthen links between U.S. communities and communities in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.

For the first Community Connections Program of FY 2006–2007, ICIU was chosen to host 11 citizens from Azerbaijan to learn about American agriculture. Most recently, the Iowa International Center hosted nine agriculture professionals from Turkmenistan to learn about livestock technology.

International Visitor Leadership Program
The International Visitor Leadership Program (IVLP) is an international exchange program that seeks to promote public diplomacy through programs that reflect visitors’ professional interests. IVLP is sponsored by the US Department of State, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs.

The Iowa International Center is one of approximately 95 Council for International Visitors (CIV) in the U.S. participating in the International Visitor Leadership Program. Iowa International Center's most popular visitor programs include agricultural-related issues, the media, judicial affairs and education.

References

External links
Official site
http://www.welcometoiowa.org/

Non-profit organizations based in Iowa
Organizations based in Des Moines, Iowa
Foreign relations of the United States