[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hellenic Police

demonstrations, treatment of illegal immigrants, and other, while the Human Rights Watch has criticized the organization concerning its stance against immigrants and allegations of torture of detainees and the Reporters Without Borders have accused the police of deliberately targeting journalists.  

Furthermore, it has been accused of allegedly planting evidence on detainees and mistreatment of arrested individuals. A 29-year-old Cypriot man, Avgoustinos Dimitriou, has been awarded €300,000 in damages following his videotaped beating by plainclothed police officers during a 2006 demonstration in Thessaloniki.    

In November 2019, Amnesty International again made a report regarding the police violence and the use of torture methods. In 2020, 26-year-old Vasilis Maggos from Volos, was found dead one month after his arrest (during an environmental demonstration) and his beating by police officers that caused him serious organ damage.  

In 2021, the Border Violence Monitoring Network published a report into the use of torture and inhuman treatment during pushbacks by Greek police. They assert that:

 89% of pushbacks carried out by Greek authorities contained one or more forms of violence and abuse that we assert amounts to torture or inhuman treatment
 52% of pushback groups subjected to torture or inhuman treatment by Greek authorities contained minors
 
AEK fan 29-year-old Greek Michalis Katsouris was stabbed multiple times and died shortly after in hospital, when in the late hours on 7 August 2023 a group of around 100-120 hooligans supporters of Dinamo Zagreb, reportedly met up with members-accomplices of an affiliated Athens club at a pre-arranged location and together made their way by car and train to AEK’s stadium in Nea Filadelfia, went to Perissos, where fans of AEK were assembled in the broader vicinity. 
Clashes ensued between the two groups, which threw flares, makeshift explosives, projectiles and rocks, and used makeshift clubs. Hellenic Police have come under criticism for allowing the Dinamo Zagreb fans to assemble near the stadium and not stopping the brawl, intended to prevent the murder that occurred.

A prosecutor has ordered a preliminary investigation into an incident which occurred on Akadimias Street in Athens on 16 March 2023 during general strike where a police tow truck drove at high speed into dumpsters that were being wheeled into the middle of a street by protestors.   

Four police officers were arrested on 11 March 2023, include a higher officer, two lower-ranking policemen and a member of the Special Guard unit were responsible for guarding and transferring detainees, for allegedly beating and torturing a detainee.

On December 5, 2022, in Thessaloniki a 16-year-old Roma youth was fatally shot in the head by a 34-year-old motorcycle police unit DIAS officer involved in a chase after the teenager allegedly filled up his pickup truck at a gas station and left without paying the 20 euro bill triggered days of often violent protests in the Thessaloniki and Athens and other parts of Greece. He had been hospitalized for more than a week but he died on 13 December 2022. 

Two motorcycle police unit DIAS officers, aged 24 and 27, were charged with raping a 19-year-old woman in Omonia Police Station on 12 October 2022.  

A disabled woman brutalized by two policemen at the Omonia Police Station on 29 October 2019, Hellenic Police (ELAS) confirmed the violent incident.  

A special police guard Epaminondas Korkoneas killed 15-year-old Alexandros Grigoropoulos on the night of December 6, 2008, following a verbal altercation with the teenager and his friends.  

Michalis Kaltezas 15-year-old was fatally shot at the back of his head by the 27-year-old police officer Athanasios Melistas on 17 November 1985 during the annual 17 November protests remembrance day.   

Iakovos Koumis (Sorira Ammochostos, 1956 – Athens, 23 November 1980) was a Cypriot law student who was fatally injured to death, along 20-year-old worker Stamatina Kanellopoulou, by the Police Riot Units (M.A.T.) on 16 November 1980 during the annual 17 November protests remembrance day.

Syriza controversy
In 2012, Syriza political party, disagreed with the measures taken by the State authorities and the police against illegal immigration.  

At early November 2012, the Minister of Public Order, Nikos Dendias, accused various MPs of the Coalition of Radical Left of "impersonating authority". According to the accusations the members of the party stopped a number of policemen while they were on duty in order to check their credentials. Moreover, they took photographs of the plainclothes police officers and uploaded them on the internet site of the party (left.gr). The accusations prompted an angry reply from the party's spokesperson, who replied that they are "dirty accusations".