[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kingdom Coming

used in a radio contest similar to "Name That Tune," called "Stop The Music", wherein random people were called on the phone and asked if they could name it for a substantial monetary prize. Most people could not, mistaking it for "The Old Grey Mare", which it resembles only slightly in its rhythm.

The tune was also used in the intro to the second movement of John Philip Sousa's cubaland suite. A compilation of folk songs from Spain in mvt. 1 America in mvt. 2 and Cuba in mvt. 3

Notable recordings
The McGee Brothers and Todd recorded the song with lyrics in 1927 as "Old Master's Runaway"
Frank Crumit recorded "Kingdom Coming and the Year of Jubilo" on November 29, 1927. It was released on Victor 21108.
Sauter-Finegan Orchestra recorded an instrumental version titled "Doodletown Fifers", which they released as their first record,  and it reached No. 12 on the Billboard Most Played by Disk Jockeys chart in 1952.  "Doodletown Fifers" has also been recorded by the Boston Pops Orchestra.
Western pop singer "Tennessee" Ernie Ford had a hit record in 1958 titled "Sunday Barbecue", which became the latest incarnation of the original tune. It was released on Capitol # F3997.
The Holy Modal Rounders recorded the song in 1978 as "Year of Jubilo."
The Red Clay Ramblers recorded the song in 1975 on their album "Stolen Love" (Flying Fish FF109).
A solo piano rendition of the song is included on jazz pianist Bill Carrothers' album, The Blues and the Greys, which features popular music from the time of the Civil War.
The song appears on the soundtrack to Ken Burns' Civil War, usually played whenever pictures of General Ulysses S. Grant are shown on screen.
The song is performed by Pokey LaFarge in the 2013 collection Divided and United: The Songs of the Civil War, titled as "Kingdom Come."

External links
Sheet music for "Kingdom Coming", from Project Gutenberg

References 

Songs of the American Civil War
African Americans in the American Civil War
Songs written by Henry Clay Work
1862 songs