[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dominic Blizzard

ith Jim Gannon, his former boss at Stockport. His spell would last a matter of days however. Arriving on the 18th, he played in the 3–0 defeat to Accrington Stanley on the 19th, and returned to Rovers on the 21st after Gannon was sacked. He departed parent club Rovers by mutual consent in June 2011.

Yeovil Town
In July 2011, Blizzard joined Yeovil Town on a one-year contract. He scored his first goal for the club in the FA Cup, hitting a  drive in a 3–0 win away to Hereford United. Seven days later, on 19 November, he scored in the 2–2 draw with nearby rivals Exeter City at Huish Park. After returning from a lengthy spell on the sidelines with injury, he scored in a 3–2 defeat at Carlisle United on 25 February. His next goal was in a 3–2 win at home to Chesterfield on 28 April. On 15 May, Blizzard was reported to be one of four players set to leave the club after rejecting manager Gary Johnson's offer of a new contract. However two days later it was announced that he had signed a new one-year deal with the club. Blizzard told BBC Somerset: "I've signed and there was never a point that I wasn't going to sign. I'm happy with the whole environment. That's why I'm willing to sign again."

He made 30 appearances in the 2012–13 campaign, though did not feature in the play-off final victory over Brentford which took the "Glovers" into the Championship. Blizzard was released by Yeovil at the end of the season along with Richard Hinds and Gavin Williams.

Plymouth Argyle
On 25 June 2013, Dominic agreed to sign a two-year deal with League Two club Plymouth Argyle. He scored his first goal for the club with an "impressive strike from long range" against Southend United in a 1–1 draw at Home Park on 11 January 2014. In total he made 31 appearances for the "Pilgrims" in the 2013–14 campaign as Plymouth posted a tenth-place finish.

He made 31 league appearances in the 2014–15 season, scoring one goal in a 1–0 win over Luton Town at Kenilworth Road on 6 September. Argyle reached the play-offs, losing to Wycombe Wanderers at the semi-final stage. Blizzard was released by manager John Sheridan in May 2015. Blizzard has indicated that Sheridan's decision to release him was "a bit personal" but stated that he enjoyed his time as a Plymouth Argyle player.

Style of play
Blizzard could play anywhere across the midfield, though preferring a central role he could also play as an attacking or defensive midfielder. He had been described as a skilled passing footballer.

Acting career
Blizzard turned to acting in 2015. Trained at the Actors Studio at Pinewood Studios, he also worked as a part-time scriptwriter.

Career statistics

Honours
Stockport County
League Two play-offs: 2007–08

Yeovil Town
League One play-offs: 2012–13

References

1983 births
Living people
Footballers from High Wycombe
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Watford F.C. players
Stockport County F.C. players
Milton Keynes Dons F.C. players
Bristol Rovers F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Yeovil Town F.C. players
Plymouth Argyle F.C. players
English Football League players
21st-century English male actors
English screenwriters
Male actors from Buckinghamshire
Actors from High Wycombe