[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yellow-bellied toad

ellied toad is also found in a much smaller, more isolated, region. France, Germany, Belgium, and the Netherlands are the most common locations in which the toad would be found. Due to habitat disturbances, the areas of occupancy for the yellow-bellied toads have seen a significant decrease in size.

Conservation 
Factors associated with climate change, including habitat loss, loss of genetic variation and increase in disease spread have all greatly contributed to the decline of the Yellow-bellied toad. It is important to obtain accurate information about the exact issues plaguing the population at a local, regional, and continental scale. Each level requires a different solution and multiple conservation efforts must be performed to get the species outside of endangered. The species has been largely isolated in recent years due to habitat complications, the largest of which is fragmentation. The reduced genetic diversity can arise from the known habitat fragmentation or the result of post-glacial dispersal, resulting in high levels of inbreeding. In populations that are affected by both, the decline in genetic diversity is evident. Current conservation efforts must focus on the improvement of habitat in an effort to increase genetic diversity.The yellow-bellied toad is endangered in Germany. Experiments have been done in an attempt to increase the current population by moving individuals in higher density areas to areas with low populations of the frog. Due to this movement, the ability of the frog to adapt its coloration to suit the environment they are placed in is critical to their survival. Variation in coloration plasticity amongst individuals in the species forces researchers to consider assessing an individual’s ability to change coloration prior to relocation. Another issue arising with the relocation of some individuals to another habitat is the spread of disease that can come with it. Ensuring individuals of the species have a better chance of interaction would increase the negative effects habitat fragmentation has had. Therefore, on a continental scale, conservation efforts should focus on the creation of metapopulations as a counteractive mechanism, allowing for more interactions to take place and increasing variation through breeding.

Reproduction and life cycle 
Female yellow-bellied toads have the ability to produce offspring multiple times each mating season and long-lived individuals are possible. However, to find a female actually producing offspring multiple times per year is rare. Female reproductive output is also very low, having the capacity to lay over 200 eggs at a given time, but typically seen to only lay about 40. This is because there is little incentive to produce offspring in conditions when adult survival is high and offspring have a more variable likelihood of survival.

Life span 
The life span of yellow-bellied toads encompasses the broad range of 5-23 years. Mortality rates directly determine the average lifespan. The range an individual falls in the fast-slow continuum is dependent on factors such as climate, habitat, and food availability. Climate especially plays the largest extrinsic role as it mediates the predictability of a habitat for an individual as well as the availability of breeding sites. The risk of predation is another factor that plays a large role in the life span of an individual. The yellow-bellied toad has defense mechanisms such as skin-secreting toxins that decrease its appeal to predators, allowing for a longer life span. Interestingly, in the yellow-bellied toad, specific populations exhibit a wide range of life spans across the fast-slow continuum, with climate conditions accounting for a significant amount of variation.

Life cycle
Tadpoles develop rapidly and can reach 55mm in length. They have a blunt tail and are typically grayish-brown or, in rare cases, transparent. Tadpoles and eggs are vulnerable to predation from various small pond-dwelling creatures, such as leeches, fish, and some aquatic beetles.<ref name="Europa Factsheet">{{cite web |title=Yellow-bellied Toad: Bombina variegata' |url=http://ec.europa.eu/environment/nature/natura2000/management/docs/Bombina%20variagata%20factsheet%20-%20SWIFI.pdf |access-date=22 November 2017 |website=The European Commission |publisher=EU Wildlife and Sustainable Farming Project 2009}}</ref> A study published in 2016 in the Canadian Journal of Zoology indicated that tadpoles in warmer water develop more quickly than those in cooler climates, meant to mimic the differing environments found in forested areas and sunny quarries.

Mating