[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nicosia International Airport

er since. However, active United Nations helicopters are based at the site, which is used as the headquarters for the UN peace keeping mission in Cyprus UNFICYP and is used as one of the sites for intercommunal peace talks. It is also the home to a number of recreational facilities for UN personnel.

Following the closure of Nicosia Airport, a new airport in Larnaca was opened in the Republic of Cyprus in 1975, while Northern Cyprus established Ercan International Airport in 2004, both on former RAF airfields. Ercan is not considered by the Government of the Republic of Cyprus as a legal entry or exit point, thus flights from it go only to Turkey. Paphos International Airport was also opened in the Republic of Cyprus in 1983.

There have plans proposed for Nicosia Airport to be reopened under United Nations (UN) control as a goodwill measure, but so far neither the Greek Cypriots nor the Turkish Cypriots have seriously pursued the option.

In 2013, Michael Paraskos of the Cornaro Institute in Cyprus argued that the old Nicosia Airport would no longer be needed in the event of a political settlement on the island, due to there being three other functioning airports in Cyprus. It was suggested it should be turned into a tax-free industrial zone, designed to attract foreign high tech firms, and employing Cypriots from both the Greek and Turkish communities on the island.

The NIC platform, implemented by the Cyprus Institute in collaboration with the UNFICYP, and released in August 2022, includes a full virtual tour of all accessible areas of the main terminal, the control tower, the hangar, and the three planes sitting in the airport premises. Additionally, the NIC platform features a collection of historical images and videos which aims to open a window to the days when the airport was fully operational and visited by numerous holiday makers.

Incidents and accidents
On 3 March 1956, a Handley Page Hermes (a Hermes IV G-ALDW operated by Skyways Limited) was destroyed on the ground by a time-bomb in the forward freight compartment. The explosion occurred 20 minutes before the aircraft was due to depart for the United Kingdom with 68 passengers. There were no fatalities.
 On 27 April 1956, an RAF Douglas Dakota was destroyed on the ground by a bomb thought to have been placed by EOKA fighters.
 On 20 April 1967, a Bristol Britannia crashed on approach to the airport in bad weather, 126 killed.
 On 29 January 1973, an EgyptAir Ilyushin Il-18 aircraft (Reg No SU-AOV) crashed into the Pentadaktylos mountain range on approach to the airport, killing all 37 aboard (7 crew and 30 passengers).
 On 29 August 1973, a Czechoslovak Airlines Tupolev Tu-104 operating flight CSA531 from Damascus overran the runway upon landing. The aircraft was due to fly onwards to Prague from Nicosia. No fatalities were reported on the flight, and the wreckage of the aircraft is still close to the airport.
 On 20 July 1974, two empty Cyprus Airways airliners (a Hawker-Siddeley HS121 Trident 1E (5B-DAE), and a Trident 2E (5B-DAB)) were destroyed on the ground by the Turkish Air Force during the Turkish invasion of Cyprus.
 On 22 July 1974, 33 people were killed by friendly fire when 15 ageing Nord Noratlas of the Greek 354 Transport Squadron were assigned to airlift a Greek commando force to protect the airport from the invading Turkish troops. This operation was named Operation Niki.

References

External links

 Nicosia International Airport Virtual Tour

Airports in Cyprus
Airports established in 1939
Defunct airports
Airport
1939 establishments in Cyprus