[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of S.H.I.E.L.D. members

iles" in Secret War list Jimmy Woo as a Level 8 agent).
 Larry Young – S.H.I.E.L.D. Air Cavalry officer. Later, fifth known Deathlok cyborg.

Notable Agents (Post-Civil War)

After the Civil War, all super-heroes that fought on the Pro-registration side of the conflict are now agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.

Former agents
 Val Adair – Rank L-6; expelled.
 Scott Adsit  – A former L-6 agent who left with other agents to aid in the reformation of the Nova Corps. The character is based on real life comedic actor Scott Adsit.
 Agent 9 – Rogue agent who took over the Helicarrier for the Red Skull. Agent 9 was later killed.
 Paul Allen – Rank L-6 agent. He was expelled from S.H.I.E.L.D.
 Harry Angstrum – Records-division agent. He was devoured by Biohazard.
 Dr. Belgrade – Chief scientist in charge of Nemesis project. He was killed by his own creations.
 Yelena Belova (White Widow) – Second known Black Widow.
 Cameron Bissett – Ensign who was killed by Sabretooth. He was later impersonated by Mystique.
 John Bronson – Killed and identity taken by Wolfgang von Strucker. Rank L-4
 Laura Brown – Daughter of Imperial Hydra (Arnold Brown) and one-time lover of Nick Fury.
 Peggy Carter – Rank L-6; deceased.
 Stanley Carter (Sin-Eater) – Became the Sin-Eater and killed Jean DeWolff.
 Colonel Kuro Chin (Agent 60) – Colonel in the Yashonka military. Shot dead helping Captain America escape from that Communist country.
 Clayton Claymore – Cyborg. Died on mission to El Corazon de la Muerte.
 Edward Cobert (Gargantua) – Became the Leviathan when his project went wrong.
 Jeff Cochren – Rank L-5; deceased.
 Condor – On black-ops team the Contingency. Turned rogue and was captured.
 Corbin – Surveillance. He was later assigned inventory duty at Virginia storage center. Killed by an undercover A.I.M. agent.
 Edwin Darwin – Cyborg. Died on a mission to El Corazon de la Muerte
 Alex DePaul – Led investigation of Deviant warlord Tantalus. Friend of Bison. Killed by agent Kara Palamas.
 Carl Delandan (sometimes misspelled Karl) – Regional Director in Manhattan. Rank L-3. He was dismissed from S.H.I.E.L.D.
 Phil Dexter – Retired.
 Roger Dooley – Level 4 officer who usurped Dum Dum Dugan's rank and used the Helicarrier to capture She-Hulk. He was killed.
 David Ferrari (Answer) – Toxic-weapons division at the Furnace. He was thought dead, but was later revealed alive and known as Answer.
 Marvin Flumm (Mentallo) – Psi-division. After being discharged, he became the mutant terrorist Mentallo.
 John Garrett – Cybernetically enhanced agent, known for his lack of discipline. Later becomes the President of the United States of America by the unwanted help of Elektra, who put his mind into the body of the (fictional) President Ken Wind, in order to save the world.
 Lt. Tom Gittes – Auxiliary CO and security chief on the Helicarrier. He was among the group of renegade agents attempting to take over Helicarrier for impromptu war crimes trial of KGB agent. He was killed by agent Thurman.
 Dr. Erik Gorbo – Scientist. He changes form into that of a gorilla to commit crimes.
 Hardcase and the Harriers – Mercenaries who are former agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.
 Margaret Huff – Nick Fury's personal secretary. She reassigned to S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Los Angeles branch where she died investigating a cult. Rank L-6
 Brent Jackson – Betrayed S.H.I.E.L.D. and was a mole for Weapon X.
 Major Shera Joseph – Los Angeles branch member who headed the task force in Imaya. Joined Worldwatch and died of time-travel fatigue.
 Sal Kennedy - Old friend of Tony Stark's, took the position when he became director, killed in an attack on the Helicarrier
 Killdeer – On black-ops team the Contingency. Turned rogue and was captured.
 Kite – On black-ops team the Contingency. Turned rogue and was captured.
 Kevin Kraller – Rank L-6; deceased.
 Jeremy Latcham – Double agent for the Purifiers. He was self-terminated.
 Scott Niles Lawrence – Rank L-6; deceased.
 Shannon Lawrence – Undercover agent exposed to mutating virus giving her ability to shoot knives from her fingers. She was killed.
 Elizabeth Lockhart – High-ranking budget officer. Leaked information to the Punisher; liquidated by the Contessa.
 James "Jamie" Madrox (Multiple Man) – One of several duplicates of the mutant Jamie Madrox (Multiple Man). He was re-absorbed by the original Madrox.
 Adam Manna – Rank L-6; expelled.
 Barbara Morse (Mockingbird) – Known as Agent 19. Rank L-6 agent. She resigned from S.H.I.E.L.D. She was later killed by Mephisto. Barbara was revealed to be alive and replaced by a Skrull. Level 6 agent.
 Dani Moonstar (Mirage) – Former New Mutant. Undercover agent infiltrating the Mutant Liberation Front. She resigned following Operation: Zero Tolerance.
 David Nanjiwarra – Aboriginal agent of A.S.I.O. He was used as a mole and subsequently killed by Scorpio.
 "Network" Nina – Cyber-enhanced ESP agent that fought Algernon Crowe. She was killed in telepathic battle with Psi-Borg.
 Kate Neville – Chief of Ordnance an