[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Carolina Tohá

Carolina Montserrat Tohá Morales (born 12 May 1965) is a Chilean political scientist, educator, and politician. Since September 6, 2022, she has served as the Minister of Interior and Public Security of Chile, under the presidency of Gabriel Boric. Previously, she served as the Minister Secretary General of Government - being the first woman to hold this position - during the first government of President Michelle Bachelet (between March and December 2009).

Tohá is a member of the Party for Democracy (PPD), being the first woman to serve as president of the party, from August 2010 to June 2012. She has served as a member of the Chamber of Deputies representing the 22nd district (for two consecutive periods, from 2002 to 2009) and as the mayor of the Santiago commune (from 2012 to 2016).

Early life 
Tohá was born in Santiago, Chile on May 12, 1965, the daughter of lawyer and socialist politician José Tohá González, who served as Minister of the Interior and National Defense during the government of President Salvador Allende. Her father was strangled to death in 1974, after being arrested and tortured six months after the coup led by General Augusto Pinochet. Her mother is Victoria Morales Etchevers, also known as Moy de Tohá.

Tohá began her primary studies at the Simón Bolívar School 120 in Santiago, but after the overthrow of the Popular Unity government, she had to interrupt her routine and only took exams at the end of 1973. A few weeks after her father's death, she left with her family to Mexico, where they lived in self-exile for five years. Back in her country in 1979, she was enrolled in the Francisco de Miranda School to continue her secondary studies, where she met Jaime Gazmuri, who later became a senator, as her teacher, then in clandestinity.

Tohá then continued her higher education in law at the University of Chile (1984-1989), where she early on developed her political career, which eventually identified her as one of the leaders of the University of Chile Student Federation (FECh) who opposed the Pinochet military dictatorship the most. She held the position of vice president of FECh between 1986 and 1988. Together with Germán Quintana, who was president at the time, she led the university strike that resulted in the historic victory of the student movement: the resignation of the appointed rector José Luis Federici.

In 1989, Tohá moved to Italy to study at the University of Milan, where she obtained a PhD in Political Science in 1994.  She returned to Chile in 1995, working as an independent consultant on public management and social policies. She was also a teacher in various postgraduate programs at the School of Engineering of the University of Chile and at Alberto Hurtado University; advisor to the Ministry of Finance; executive secretary of the Social Interministerial Committee; consultant on public management issues; and also worked in the General Government Subsecretary's Office.

Tohá has two children (Emilio and Matilde) with lawyer and PPD activist Norberto Salinas, before marrying physician and politician Fulvio Rossi in December 2005, from whom she is now separated. She later began a relationship with lawyer and specialist in Mapuche causes, Jaime Madariaga.

Political career

Founder of the PPD and the Concertación governments (1987-2001) 
In 1987, along with Ricardo Lagos and Jorge Schaulsohn, Tohá was part of the founding team of the PPD, as one of the young leaderships of the nascent party.

After returning to Chile from her studies in Europe, Tohá served as executive secretary of the Social Ministers Committee of the Government of President Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle, a position she held between 1995 and 1997. That year, she chose to run for a seat in the Chamber of Deputies for the Santiago electoral district in the parliamentary elections, but was defeated by her party colleague Enrique Krauss and right-winger Alberto Cardemil.

Tohá later became vice president of the PPD and, in 1999, actively participated in the presidential campaign of Lagos, who, after defeating Joaquín Lavín in January 2000, appointed her as Undersecretary General of Government, a position she assumed on March 11 of that year. She resigned on May 23, 2001, to run for a seat in the Chamber of Deputies in the parliamentary elections that year.

Deputy for Santiago (2002-2009) 
In the parliamentary elections of December 2001, Tohá was elected as a deputy for District No. 22, which was made up of the commune of Santiago, for the period 2002-2006. She assumed office on March 11, 2002. She was a member of the Standing Committee on Economics; Education, Culture, Sports and Recreation; and Interior Government. She was also a member of the Special Committee on Youth.