[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Organization of the government of Thailand

Thailand is a unitary state in Southeast Asia. The administrative services of the executive branch of the government are regulated by the National Government Organisation Act, BE 2534 (1991) (พระราชบัญญัติระเบียบบริหารราชการแผ่นดิน พ.ศ. 2534). Under this Act, the services are divided into three levels: central, provincial and local.

Central government 

The central government (ราชการส่วนกลาง) consists of ministries, bureaus, and departments (กระทรวงทบวงกรม krasuang tha-buang krom).

Each of the ministries (กระทรวง krasuang) and bureaus (ทบวง tha-buang) is led by a minister (รัฐมนตรี ratthamontri) who is a member of the Council of Ministers (คณะรัฐมนตรี Khana Ratthamontri). A bureau may be an independent agency with the same status as a ministry or may be subject to a ministry. Currently, there are no bureaus.

The ministries and bureaus are divided into departments (กรม krom), inter alia. Each department is led by a director general (; ).

There is a central government agency called Office of the Prime Minister (; ). It is led by the prime minister (; ) and bears ministerial status.

There are also independent central government agencies. These agencies are not under any ministry, bureau, or department, but are directly subject to the prime minister. They are:

 Bureau of the Royal Household (; ) (BRH)
 Office of the Royal Development Projects Boards (สำนักงานคณะกรรมการพิเศษเพื่อประสานงานโครงการอันเนื่องมาจากพระราชดำริ) (RDPB)
 National Police Agency (; ) (NPA)
 National Office of Buddhism (; ) (ONaB)
 Royal Institute of Thailand (; ) (RIT)
 Southern Border Provinces Administration Centre (;  ) (SBPAC)

Provincial government 
The provincial government (ราชการส่วนภูมิภาค) consists of provinces (จังหวัด changwat).  there were 76 provinces.

Each province is led by a Governor (ผู้ว่าราชการจังหวัด phu wa ratchakan changwat) and is divided into districts (อำเภอ amphoe). , there were 878 districts throughout the country. In each province, there is one capital district (อำเภอเมือง amphoe mueang). For example, the capital district of Chiang Mai Province is Mueang Chiang Mai District (อำเภอเมืองเชียงใหม่ Amphoe Mueang Chiang Mai).  The exception is Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya Province, where both the province and the capital district share the same name.

Each district is administered by a Chief District Officer (นายอำเภอ nai amphoe).

Until 2007, some provinces might include minor districts (กิ่งอำเภอ king amphoe). A minor district was established in large areas where the small number of residents did not warrant the formation of a district. Each minor district was administered by an Assistant Chief District Officer (ปลัดอำเภอ palat amphoe).

Governors, district chiefs, and district officers are appointed by the central government.

Local government 
Local government (ราชการส่วนท้องถิ่น) consists of two types: ordinary and special.

Ordinary local government 
Ordinary local government (ราชการส่วนท้องถิ่นรูปแบบทั่วไป) is of two forms.

 Old form (แบบเก่า) under the Local Government Act, Buddhist Era 2457 (1914) (พระราชบัญญัติลักษณะปกครองท้องที่พุทธศักราช 2457) – Under this form, the subdistricts (ตำบล tambon) are established in the districts and minor districts. Each subdistrict is led by a subdistrict chief (กำนัน kamnan) and is divided into villages (หมู่บ้าน mu ban). Each village is led by a village chief (ผู้ใหญ่บ้าน phu yai ban; literally "village elder").
 New form (แบบใหม่) under the Municipalities Act, BE 2496 (1953) (พระราชบัญญัติเทศบาล พ.ศ. 2496), the Subdistrict Councils and Subdistrict Administrative Organisations Act, BE 2537 (1995) (พระราชบัญญัติสภาตำบลและองค์การบริหารส่วนตำบล พ.ศ. 2537), and the Provincial Administrative Organisations Act, BE 2540 (1997) (พระราชบัญญัติองค์การบริหารส่วนจังหวัด พ.ศ. 2540) – The local government under this form is adopted in every province and consists of:
 2,442 municipalities (เทศบาล thetsaban) which are divided into 30 city municipalities (เทศบาลนคร thetsaban nakhon), 179  town municipalities (เทศบาลเมือง thetsaban mueang) and 2,233 subdistrict municipalities (เทศบาลตำบล thetsaban tambon);
 administrative organisations (องค์การบริหาร ong kan borihan) which are divided into 76 provincial administrative organisations - PAO (องค์การบริหารส่วนจังหวัด ong kan borihan suan changwat) and 5,332 subdistrict administrative organisations - SAO (องค์การบริหารส่วนตำบล ong kan borihan suan tambon), these are for the local communities, which are not connected to a thetsaban.

Village chiefs are elected by local citizens. The chiefs of the villages in a subdistrict elect one of their number to also serve as the chief of the subdistrict. According to the Municipalities Act, BE 2496 (1953), when the new form of local government is adopted in any locality, the Minister of Interior may revoke the old form for that locality.