[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hafiz Saeed

uses,' Britain's prime minister lived in a 'four-bedroom flat.' He added, 'When the sun never set on the British Empire, the chief executive of that great country lived in the same house of a few marlas in a small street. That is truly Islamic, that is like following the Sunnah of the Holy Prophet.'

Speaking on the issue of arrest of separatist Kashmiri leader Masarat Alam by the Jammu and Kashmir government, Saeed said, "Jihad is the duty of an Islamic government... there is a government in Pakistan and it has always taken the stand that it is the right of Kashmiris to attain freedom. I say what our Army will do to secure the right of the Kashmiris is jihad... We extend help to Kashmiris alongside government ... we call this jihad."

Criticising his anti-India comments, Indian Muslim leader Asaduddin Owaisi said, "People like Hafiz Saeed are unaware about teachings of Islam, jihad in Islam. They are killing innocent lives in Pakistan, children are being killed. They are using Pakistan for maligning another country. The Government of India should take strict action against it and I condemn his comments in clear and strong words."

Indian government 
In January 2013, India's then Union Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde released a statement on the alleged existence of Hindu terrorism as well as the existence of Hindu terror camps on Indian soil, being run and organised by the BJP and the RSS. As a result, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jamaat-ud-Dawa welcomed Shinde's statements and congratulated him for admitting the existence of Hindu terrorism. Saeed demanded that the United States take serious notice of this statement by the Indian home minister regarding Hindu terrorist camps in India. "The US should now carry out drone attacks on these terror camps in India," Saeed said.

In September 2014, Saeed accused India of "water terrorism". Though there was flood crisis in India too, Saeed blamed India for flood crisis in Pakistan. In several tweets on social media he said, "Indian gov discharged water in rivers without notification & has given false information; an act of open mischief," "India has used water to attack Pakistan, We are in state of War. India's water aggression must be taken to the UN security council."

Responding to a question about the nuclear warning issued by Indian authorities in Jammu and Kashmir after the 2013 India–Pakistan border incidents, Saeed said that in case of a nuclear war between India and Pakistan, India should distribute nuclear safety pamphlets in Delhi, Mumbai and Calcutta rather than in Kashmir.

Urdu as the national language of Pakistan 

Saeed has questioned Pakistan's decision to adopt Urdu (only 8% of Pakistanis speak Urdu as a first language) as its national language in a country where the majority of people speak the Punjabi language. He advocated that Punjabi should be made the national language.

Writings 
Saeed has published the following books and articles, among others:

Books 

 Tafsir Surah Tauba (Exegesis of Surah Tauba). Lahore: Darul Andalus, 2006.
 Tafsir Surah Yusuf (Exegesis of Surah Yusuf), 1st edn. Lahore: Darul Andalus, 2009.

Articles 

 ‘Martial Law Na Jamhooriat Ki Bahali: Sirf Qur’an Wa Sunnah (Neither Martial Law nor the Restoration of Democracy: Only the Qur’an and Sunnah)’. Majallah Al-Daawa, November 1999, 16–18.
 ‘Bharat Dilail Kay Maidan Mein Bhi Shikast Kha Giya (India Has Been Defeated Even in the Battle of Arguments)’. Majallah Al-Daawa, August 2001, 2–4.
 ‘Amriki Nizam-e-Jamhooriat Mein Sab Ko Azadian-Islam Kay Chah’nay Walun Par Pabandi’an-Akhir Kyon? (In the American Democratic System All Enjoy Freedom but Why Are Restrictions Imposed on the Lovers of Islam?)’. Majallah Al-Daawa, February 2002, 2–3.
 ‘Paani, Bijli Aur Mahn’gai Kay Khaufnak Masa’il: Pas-e-Pardah Asal Mujrim Aur Zimmadar Kaun (Frightening Problems of Water, Energy and Inflation: Behind the Curtain Who is the Real Culprit Responsible [for these issues]?)’. Al-Haramain, May 2010, 8–13.

See also 
 All Parties Hurriyat Conference
 Syed Ali Shah Geelani
 Kashmir conflict
 2014 Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly election
 Difa-e-Pakistan Council
 Phantom, 2015 Indian film
 List of fugitives from justice who disappeared

References

External links 
 
 
 Hafiz Saeed. Rewards for Justice.
 "Exclusive: Pakistani with U.S. bounty said helping de-radicalize militants" – Reuters, 6 April 2012
 Chronology of indictment of JuD chief Hafiz Saeed by Outlook