[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Arne Sunde

ot have the support of Prime Minister Johan Nygaardsvold. At the time of the altercation Sunde was one of the leading candidates to take over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but was instead given the Ministry of Provisioning after Trygve Lie left that position to become Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Despite the many internal conflicts within the various parts of the Norwegian authorities during their time in exile Sunde defended the Cabinet Nygaardsvold during a 21 October 1942 meeting with four priests of the Norwegian Church Abroad who were accusing Nygaardsvold of excluding people not associated with the Labour Party from influential positions. Sunde stated that in his opinion the Cabinet had always made it a priority to attract competent individuals to its service, regardless of those individuals' political affiliations.

Post-war

Dissolving Nortraship
Having left the government in 1945, Sunde's first task after the Second World War was to in 1946 head the last board of Nortraship, tasked with dissolving the company.

From 1945 to 1948 Sunde again headed the Oslo office of Bergens Privatbank.

UN ambassador
In 1949–1952 Arne Sunde was the Norwegian ambassador to the United Nations. The perhaps pivotal moment of his career at the United Nations came on 7 July 1950 when he, as President of the Security Council, led the meeting that adopted the United Nations Security Council Resolution 84, recommending United Nations member states to assist the Republic of Korea in resisting the invasion initiated some two weeks earlier by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The resolution paved the way for a United States-led UN force in the Korean War. During the negotiations leading up to the resolution Sunde clashed with US ambassador Warren R. Austin, Austin offending Sunde to such a degree that one observer believed that personal relations between the US and Norwegian delegations had been "irreconcilably damaged". At the time the Secretary-General of the United Nations was the Norwegian Trygve Lie and Norway was a non-permanent member of the Security Council. Sunde had also been the UN Security Council President in June 1949. When he was interviewed on his 80th birthday in 1964 Sunde stated that he viewed his time on the Security Council as the absolute high point of his life.

Quotations
...the stamina and courage of American boys who hardly dreamed 14 days ago that they were to be the first to fight for the ideals and principles of the United Nations . . . Let us hope that we shall not fall too far behind these men in our determination and in our dedication. (Security Council President Sunde about US soldiers fighting in the early phases of the Korean War).

Malik is very rude. And he looks as if he believed in his rudeness. (Ambassador Sunde about fellow United Nations ambassador, Soviet Yakov Malik).

Post-Korean War
In the period 1953–1958 Sunde chaired NATO's control commission on the expenses of jointly financed military installations.

Honours
By 1935 Sunde had been awarded Haakon VII's Jubilee Medal 1905–1930, been made a Chevalier of the French Légion d'honneur and an Officer of the Portuguese Order of Christ. He was later decorated Commander with Star of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav, and given the Defence Medal 1940–1945 and the French Croix de guerre.

A small junction of paths near the river Lysakerelva has been named Arne Sundes plass, "Arne Sunde's square".

References

Bibliography
 
 
 
 

1883 births
1972 deaths
Norwegian Military Academy alumni
Norwegian Military College alumni
Sciences Po alumni
ISSF rifle shooters
Norwegian male sport shooters
Olympic shooters for Norway
Shooters at the 1912 Summer Olympics
Government ministers of Norway
Ministers of Trade and Shipping of Norway
Liberal Party (Norway) politicians
Politicians from Aker
Mayors of places in Akershus
Norwegian bankers
Norwegian expatriates in France
20th-century Norwegian lawyers
Norwegian Army personnel of World War II
Nortraship people
Norwegian military attachés
People of the Korean War
Supreme Court of Norway justices
Permanent Representatives of Norway to the United Nations
People educated at Oslo Cathedral School
Norwegian Association for Women's Rights people

Knights of the Legion of Honour
Officers of the Order of Christ (Portugal)
Recipients of the Croix de Guerre 1939–1945 (France)
Ministers of Justice of Norway