[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Raufoss Mk 211

r wider circle of nations – do permit the use of such ammunition for autocannon and heavy machine guns. Machine guns firing .50 cal./12.7mm ammunition are heavy machine guns. At best, the ICRC's position can be applied to only the group of nations that were parties to the St. Petersburg Declaration.

Trials conducted by Forsvarets Forskningsinstitutt (Norwegian Defence Research Establishment) have concluded that the ammunition most likely does not have an unlawful effect if unintentionally used against personnel, as the round will have penetrated the body and exited on the other side before the explosive and incendiary components of the round are initiated. Upon hitting a person the round will detonate about 50% of the time; if the target is wearing body armor a higher detonation frequency is to be expected (as shown by the ICRC tests carried out in 1999). If detonated, the round will have a significant fragmentation and incendiary effect in a 30-degree cone behind the struck target, and this might affect others standing in the vicinity. The distance the round will travel from ignition to detonation is 30–40 cm, so if the target is hit at very specific angles the round may still be inside the target at the time of detonation.

The official stance of the Norwegian government is that the 12.7 mm MP round should not be used against personnel, but an exception has been made for snipers using the round due to the practical limitations of snipers having to change the type of ammunition used when switching between hardened and soft targets. It is being exported strictly in an anti-matériel capacity.

See also
Anti-materiel rifle
High-explosive incendiary/armor-piercing ammunition (HEIAP)
20×102mm M940
.50 BMG

References

External links
International Efforts to Restrict or Prohibit Military Small Arms: Annual Report 2001 - Office of the Judge Advocate General of the Army
Mark 211 .50-caliber Multipurpose Ammunition - Global Security
Official Mk211 site at NAMMO.com

High explosive and incendiary ammunition
Explosive projectiles