[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Association of European Parliamentarians with Africa

ng programmes in these countries. Representatives from other countries in Central and Eastern Africa and from countries in Western Africa regularly participate in AWEPA's regional and international activities. AWEPA has also become an active partner with NEPAD and has a number of MoU's in operation.

AWEPA Institutional Programmes include: Pan-African Parliament, East African Legislative Assembly, Réseau de Femmes Parlementaires d'Afrique Centrale, Parliament of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Parliament of Rwanda, Parliament of Burundi, Parliament of Kenya, Parliament of Uganda, Parliament of Somalia, Parliament of Mozambique, The South Africa Provincial Legislatures (SAPL) Support Programme, The South Sudan Legislative Assembly (SSLA), and the Stability Pact for the Great Lakes peace process.

Thematic programmes 
Through thematic programmes, AWEPA informs and mobilizes parliaments to take action on developmental issues. Thematic programmes include:
Famine in the Horn of Africa
Female Genital Mutilation
Strengthening Regional Parliaments towards Achieving The Millennium Development Goals
Climate Change Mitigation
Aid Effectiveness

Research 
AWEPA conducts research and produces parliamentary handbooks and other tools. Recent publications include:
 Mark van Dorp, Jeff Balch, David Batali, Emmanuela Darious Lado, Paul Lado Demetry and Isaac Woja's "No Time To Waste: Sustainable Environmental Management in a Changing Southern Sudan", which looks at waste management and pollution; deforestation and unsustainable forest use; climate change, drought, desertification and flooding; the relationship between natural resources, environment and conflict; and potential solutions to environmental management.
 Jos Havermans' "A Parliamentarians' Handbook on The Small Arms Issue", which covers the impact small arms and light weapons have on the Great Lakes Region and the Horn of Africa and gives suggestions about how parliamentarians can address this problem.
 Alta Fölscher, Mokoro's "Safeguarding the Interests of the People: Parliamentarians and Aid Effectiveness", which sheds light on the issues surrounding the aid process.
 Prof. Luc Huyse's "All Things Pass Except the Past", which examines the impact of civil war on a country's national psyche.
 Lucia van den Bergh's "Why peace worked: Mozambicans look back", which examines the interaction between Mozambican leaders and a civil society anxious for peace

Organisation

Eminent Advisory Board 
Of special importance to AWEPA is its Eminent Advisory Board, which meets annually and advises AWEPA on wide-ranging policies regarding its work in Africa and Europe. In 2011, this Board was composed of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Ms. Graça Machel, then Prof. Wangari Maathai (now Dr. Wangari Maathai), Ms. Mary Robinson, Dr. Jan Nico Scholten, His Excellency Mohamed A. Sahnoun, and Prof. Albert Tevoedjre.

Council and President 
The highest political body within AWEPA is the Council, which comprises representatives from the AWEPA sections in the European Parliament and the national parliaments of Europe. The Council elects the Executive Committee, which is accountable to the Council. The President of the Council, Miet Smet, is also member of the Executive Committee.

Executive Committee and Secretary-General 
AWEPA's Executive Committee is the executive board of the organisation and meets four times a year. It is elected by the Governing Council for a period of five years to prepare and execute the policy of AWEPA. It is composed of the President and Vice-Presidents. AWEPA's president of the executive committee is Miet Smet of Belgium. AWEPA's Vice-President's are Maja Ingold of Switzerland, Jeppe Kofod of Denmark, Patrick Meinhardt of Germany, Olivia Mitchell of Ireland, Henk Jan Ormel of the Netherlands, Rosita Runegrund of Sweden, and Egidijus Vareikis of Lithuania.

Partnership Council
The AWEPA Partnership Council is an organ consisting of members of the AWEPA Eminent Advisory Board, AWEPA's main African partners, and the AWEPA Executive Committee. It is jointly chaired by the Chair of the Eminent Advisory Board, Ms. Graça Machel, and AWEPA President, Ms. Miet Smet. The parliaments which AWEPA supports are its primary partners and this cooperation is normally laid down in a Memorandum of Understanding. In the implementation of its programmes AWEPA also works together with a variety of other organisations to increase the impact of the programmes. Partners on the council include: Pan-African Parliament, East African Legislative Assembly, Economic Community of West African States, NEPAD Planning and Coordinating Agency, Network of African Parliamentarians, and the Southern African Development Community Parliamentary Forum.