[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Germany–Netherlands football rivalry

ted to the German-Dutch football rivalry, with tours available in Dutch, German and English. A Dutch poem on the 1974 defeat called 'De moeder aller nederlagen' can be found on the museum wall. The last line reads `Wij waren de beste, maar zij waren beter´ ('We were the best, but they were better').

Television 
In the 2006 World Cup documentary Deutschland. Ein Sommermärchen, the early elimination of the Dutch team is illustrated by showing an Autobahn sign "Netherlands, exit right". In an episode of the Dutch history series Andere Tijden on the 1988 European Championship, which the Dutch won, a shot can be seen of an overpass near the Dutch-German border which reads, in German, "You are now entering the country of the European Champions". In a 2010 episode of Voetbal Inside, a Dutch football show, a clip is shown in which people are being interviewed on the streets and asked what they think the Dutch team should do in order to win the 2010 FIFA World Cup. After a while a (Dutch) man is shown who happily declares his "complete support" for the Germany national team, after which the clip stops and the presenters of the show are shown laughing uncontrollably.

Advertisements 
During the 1990s and 2000s a lot of adverts appeared, at first on Dutch television later also on German networks, which referenced the Dutch-German football rivalry, including:
 A Sport Select ad, in which a Dutch couple in a caravan overtakes an elderly German woman, after which both cars start ramming each other.
 A Heineken ad, in which a mock press conference is given by a German official who presents earplugs as the 'ultimate weapon' against a string of Dutch fan noisemakers.
 A NUON ad, in which a Dutch fan accidentally spills his drink on a German fan, ruining his T-shirt. The Dutch fan then offers his own (black) shirt to the German as a compensation, which the German fan accepts. During the match the German is cheering violently, turning his shirt (being sensitive to body heat) orange.
 A History (Dutch paint brand) ad, in which a British 'wall whisperer' (Barrie Hall) concludes that the walls in the South African 2010 FIFA World Cup stadiums (all painted orange) are 'happy'. As he leaves it is revealed the room painted belongs to the Germany national team.
 A Sportwetten (German betting site) ad, in which a German and a Dutch fan walk past each other and the German fan spits in the Dutchmans hair. This was based on the notorious attack on Rudi Völler by Frank Rijkaard at the 1990 World Cup.
 In 2000, a Dutch TV commercial, in reference to the infamous spitting incident, shows Völler and Rijkaard both wearing bathrobes, having breakfast together, suggesting the taste of butter is so good it gets the world's most bitter rivals together. Rijkaard later declared in an interview that both he and Völler decided to be part of the commercial considering 10 years had passed since the incident and it was time to bury the hatchet.
 A Bosch ad, in which a German couple is overtaken by a car full of Dutch fans who mock him. The German keeps up with the Dutch car, but then suddenly breaks off. The Dutch fans celebrate only to be caught in a speed trap.
 A 2006 EA Games ad for a football computer game, in which (animated) Dutch players and fans are celebrating victory, followed by a dramatic voice from the off claiming: "Holland will win the World Cup... Only you can stop them!" After that, the German team is shown scoring against the Dutch.
 Also in 2006, in the wake of the World Cup being hosted by Germany, a commercial showed Oliver Kahn and Michael Ballack decorating a dressing room for the Brazil national team (poking fun at Germany's previous loss to Brazil in the final of the 2002 World Cup). At the end of the commercial, Ballack is seen holding a bouquet of orange tulips, reminding Kahn that they have yet to prepare the dressing room of the Dutch national team. The commercial added a more friendly perspective on the football rivalry between both teams.

Music 
A number of novelty songs have also been written, these include: