[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Wilberforce Colony

the original colonists moving on to larger, growing urban centres such as Detroit, Cleveland, or Toronto to obtain wage-based employment. Eventually, the Irish community supplanted Wilberforce altogether, and the town of Lucan was incorporated. Wilberforce as a free Black colony faded into history.

A small number of Black families stayed on to work the land through subsequent generations. But, by the end of the 20th century, only the family of settler Peter Butler still had descendants in the area of the Wilberforce Colony village.

Chronology 

1828
 June — Cincinnati Black population elects Israel Lewis and Thomas Crissup to survey a site in Canada to which they can emigrate.
 July — Lewis and Crissup met with John Colbourne, Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada, to discuss prospects of settling in the area. They enter into a contract with the Canada Company for the purchase of land in Biddulph in the Huron Tract in Ontario, lots 2, 3, and 5 north of the Proof Line Road and lot 11 south of the road.

1829
 July–August — Cincinnati riots of 1829 force more than 1,000 African-Americans to leave the city. A group of these set out for the settlement.
 September — First wave of settlers, probably only five or six families, arrive in the area.

1830
 September 20 — James Brown and Stephen Duncan purchased  for the establishment of the colony.

1831
 Settlement named "Wilberforce" in honour of William Wilberforce.
 Emigrants from Boston, Rochester, Albany, New York, Baltimore, and other cities join the settlement.
 William Lloyd Garrison visits the colony, noting that 20-30 children attend schools.
 Board of managers created, with Austin Steward named president.
 Original colony organizer Israel Lewis is appointed as the local fundraising agent; Nathaniel Paul named fundraising agent for Great Britain.

1832
 Wilberforce has 32 families, with crops in the ground and log homes. The colony has three sawmills, a gristmill, and several general stores. 
 Three schools established, drawing students from the surrounding white population.

1835
 Wilberforce population hits 166 inhabitants.

1836
 Lewis accused of mismanaging fundraising accounts.

1840
 Most of the original Cincinnati settlers have left.

1850
 Black population in the area declines in the face of Irish immigration; the colony effectively dissolves.

References

Further reading

 

Black Canadian culture in Ontario
History of racial segregation in the United States
History of Cincinnati
Black Canadian settlements
Populated places established by African Americans
History of African-American civil rights
Settlement schemes in Canada