[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Accra Metropolitan District

adership in the preparation and management of the budget in the Service. The department advises the Assembly on cost implications and financial decisions in the LGS, and coordinates the preparation of budgets, participates in the preparation of procurement plan and assists in fee-fixing resolutions.

Social Welfare and Community Development Department
The Social Welfare and Community Development department coordinates and promotes social development programs and policies to improve the welfare of people and communities. The department also plans, initiates and coordinates community-based projects, day care centers and services for the rehabilitation of the physically challenged.

Disaster Management and Prevention Department
The Disaster Management and Prevention department assists the planning and implementation of programs to prevent and/or mitigate disaster in the district. As part of its preventive role, the department assists and facilitates education and training of volunteers to fight fires and organizes public disaster education campaigns.

Food and Agriculture Department
The Food and Agriculture department provides leadership for the development of agriculture and sustainability of the agro-environment. The department promotes policies, strategies and appropriate agricultural technologies necessary to improve agribusiness, agro-processing and crop/animal/ fish production.

Legal Department
The Legal department facilitates the drawing up of rules and regulations to guide the activities of the Assembly as well as the interpretation of rules, laws and regulations to enhance the conduct of the Assembly's business.

Climate

The Accra Metropolitan district features a tropical savanna climate (Köppen climate classification Aw) that borders on a hot semi-arid climate (BSh). The average annual rainfall is about 730 mm, which falls primarily during Ghana's two rainy seasons. The chief rainy season begins in April and ends in mid-July, whilst a weaker second rainy season occurs in October. Rain usually falls in short intensive storms and causes local flooding in which drainage channels are obstructed.

Very little variation in temperature occurs throughout the year. The mean monthly temperature ranges from  in August (the coolest) to  in March (the hottest), with an annual average of . The "cooler" months tend to be more humid than the warmer months. As a result, during the warmer months and particularly during the windy harmattan season, the city experiences a breezy "dry heat" that feels less warm than the "cooler" but more humid rainy season.

As a coastal city, Accra is vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and sea level rise, with population growth putting increasing pressure on the coastal areas. Drainage infrastructure is particularly at risk, which has profound implications for people's livelihoods, especially in informal settlements. Inadequate planning regulation and law enforcement, as well as perceived corruption in government processes, lack of communication across government departments and lack of concern or government co-ordination with respect to building codes are major impediments to progressing the development of Accra's drainage infrastructure, according to the Climate & Development Knowledge Network.

As Accra is close to the equator, the daylight hours are practically uniform during the year. Relative humidity is generally high, varying from 65% in the midafternoon to 95% at night. The predominant wind direction in Accra is from the WSW to NNE sectors. Wind speeds normally range between 8 and 16 km/h. High wind gusts occur with thunderstorms, which generally pass in squalls along the coast.

The maximum wind speed record in Accra is 107.4 km/h (58 knots). Strong winds associated with thunderstorm activity often cause damage to property by removing roofing material. Several areas of Accra experience microclimatic effects. Low-profile drainage basins with a north-south orientation are not as well ventilated as those oriented east-west.

Air is often trapped in pockets over the city, and an insulation effect can give rise to a local increase in air temperature of several degrees. This occurs most notably in the Accra Newtown sports complex areas.

References

Accra

Districts of Greater Accra Region