[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of retronyms

e persistence of vision principle of film to give an illusion of life.
 Live poker : What casinos call the kind of poker played with cards by people sitting at a table; what many others still just call "poker"; also called a "ring game" or "cash game". The term became necessary to distinguish it from video poker, which is far more common in casinos today.
 Live music : Before the publication of recorded music, all music was live.
 Live band dance: Before the advent of DJs (and then automated playlists), all dances had live music.
 Low-beam headlights : simply just headlights before high beams were introduced on motor vehicles.
 Luggable computer : The first generation of computers marketed as "portable", such as the Kaypro or the Osborne series, were quite bulky and were heavier than a bowling ball. The weight was mostly because they had a conventional CRT-type monitor built in. When the first laptop computers came out, the earlier, heavier portable machines became referred to as "luggables".

M–P
 Macintosh 128k : Originally named the Macintosh, changed to distinguish from the Macintosh 512k.
 Madden 89, 90, 91 : Respectively known as 1988 video game, 1990 video game, and John Madden Football II, this was in the early days before year numbers were added to the title of Madden NFL video games.
 Mainframe computer : When minicomputers (which were the size and shape of a desk or credenza) were introduced in the early 1970s, existing systems that often consisted of multiple large racks of equipment received the name "mainframe", alluding to the vertical cabinets or "frames" in which they were installed.
 Manual transmission (also standard transmission) : Automotive transmissions were all manual before the invention of the automatic transmission.
 Meatspace or "meat life" or "real life" : All of physical reality, as distinguished from cyberspace.
 Mechanical disk : Before the advent of solid-state ram, and later solid-state flash memory (i.e. no moving parts), all computer disks had moving parts, hence the "mechanical" adjective.  These include hard disks, floppy disks, and optical disks (CD-ROMs and DVD-ROMs).
 Mechanical fuel injection : The amount of fuel squirted into an internal combustion engine by a fuel injection system was, before integrated circuitry became applied to motor vehicle engines, originally regulated by a calibrated mechanical linkage. What made for the retronym was the more precise Electronic Fuel Injection, which employed more sensors.
 Mechanical mouse : before the optical mouse was introduced, all computer mice had a mechanical ball.
 Mechanical watch : Prior to the introduction of the first quartz movement watches in the late 1960s, all watches used a mechanical movement.
 Microsoft Edge Legacy :  Referring to its first iteration that used Microsoft’s proprietary EdgeHTML engine, from the Chromium-based counterpart that was released in December 2018.  
 Middle Ages : The period in European history from the 5th to the 15th century A. D. The earliest use of the term Middle Ages is recorded in 1604, to differentiate that period from the era of Antiquity and the then-beginning age of Modernity.
 Minecraft Java Edition : The original release of the game, on Microsoft Windows, was simply known as Minecraft prior to the release of Minecraft: Windows 10 Edition. In addition, other versions of the video game on Microsoft Windows are Minecraft Classic, Minecraft 4k, and Minecraft: Education Edition.
 Monaural sound, monophonic sound or mono sound : Often simplified to simply "mono". Before stereo sound was introduced, mono sound was simply just called sound.
 Muzzleloader : For centuries virtually all firearms were loaded from the muzzle, so there was no need for a term to distinguish this characteristic until the general adoption of breech-loading firearms in the 19th century.
 Narrow-body aircraft : An aircraft arranged along a single aisle permitting up to 6-abreast seating in a cabin below  of width. Before the arrival of wide-body aircraft in the early 1970s, narrow-body aircraft was simply just called aircraft.
 Natural language : A language, used by humans, that evolved naturally in its society. Contrast with computer programming languages or constructed languages. Often referred to as human language.
 Natural person: To distinguish humans (the original "persons") from the legal fiction of "juridical persons", non-human entities treated like people in law.
 Naturally aspirated engines : Internal combustion engines that use vacuum and venturi effect to draw the air and fuel mixture into the cylinders, without fuel injection, turbo-charger, or supercharger.
 oil lamp: Before the invention of kerosene lamps and electric lamps in the 19th century, all lamps were oil lamps.
 Old Nintendo 3DS  Used to refer to the original models of the Nintendo 3DS before the release of the New Nintendo 3DS in 2014.
 Old Labour : Term used in the 1990s and 2000s to refer to the policies the UK Labour Party was