[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Right of abode in the United Kingdom

en who has right of abode but is not a British citizen must hold a valid certificate of entitlement in their New Zealand passport in order to be exempt from immigration control in the UK, otherwise they will be treated as subject to immigration control by UK Border Force officers at a port of entry.

A certificate of entitlement costs £372 when issued in the UK and £388 when issued outside the UK. This is considerably more expensive than obtaining a British passport (£77.50 for a 10-year adult passport, £49 for a 5-year child passport and free for a 10-year passport for those born on or before 2 September 1929 when issued inside the UK; £128 for a 10-year adult passport, £81.50 for a 5-year child passport and free for a 10-year passport for those born on or before 2 September 1929 when issued outside the UK).

Other United Kingdom immigration concessions

United Kingdom immigration laws allow settlement to other categories of persons; however, although similar in practice these do not constitute a formal right of abode and the full privileges of the right of abode are not necessarily available.

Irish citizens and the Common Travel Area

Before 1949, all Irish citizens were considered under British law to be British subjects. After Ireland declared itself a republic in that year, a consequent British law gave Irish citizens a similar status to Commonwealth citizens in the United Kingdom, despite them ceasing to be such. Unlike Commonwealth citizens, Irish citizens do not require leave to enter the United Kingdom and, if they move to the UK, are considered to have 'settled status' (a status that goes beyond indefinite leave to remain). They may be subject to deportation from the UK upon the same lines as other European Economic Area nationals. In February 2007 the British government announced that an especially lenient procedure would apply to the deportation of Irish citizens compared to the procedure for other European Economic Area nationals.  As a result, Irish nationals are not routinely considered for deportation from the UK when they are released from prison.

EU, EEA, and Swiss nationals in the UK

In the Immigration (European Economic Area) Regulations 2006, the United Kingdom declared that most citizens of EEA member states and their family members should be treated as having only a conditional right to reside in the UK. This has implications should such a person wish to remain permanently in the United Kingdom after ceasing employment, claim social assistance, apply for naturalisation or acquire British citizenship for a UK-born child.

Those EU/EEA/Swiss nationals who would be treated as holding permanent residency in the UK include:

 certain persons who have retired from employment or self-employment in the UK and their family members
 those who have been granted permanent residence status (normally acquired after 5 years in the UK)
 Irish citizens (because of the Common Travel Area provisions)

These persons remain liable to deportation on public security grounds.

Following Brexit, all EEA citizens' right to reside in the UK, including their permanent residence, will cease, although the UK government announced in October 2018 that any EEA citizen who takes up residence on or before 31 December 2020, or already took up residence (including holders of permanent residence status), will be eligible to apply for either settlement or pre-settlement status from 30 March 2019 to 30 June 2021. EEA citizens wishing to take up residence in the UK after 2020 will not be given preferential immigration status. The status of Irish citizens in the UK, which pre-dates EC-related legislation, was unaffected and was confirmed by the insertion of section 3ZA into the Immigration Act 1971.

Indefinite leave to remain

Indefinite leave to remain is a form of UK permanent residence that can be held by all nationalities except for British or Irish citizens, but it does not confer a right of abode.

British Overseas Territories

All British overseas territories operate their own immigration controls, which apply to British citizens as well as to those from other countries.  These territories generally have local immigration laws regulating who has belonger status in that territory.

See also
 British nationality law
 Common Travel Area
 Commonwealth citizen
 History of British nationality law
 Indefinite leave to remain
 Right of abode

References 

Immigration law in the United Kingdom