[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# A Scourge of Screamers

chemical rockets which require tons of fuel to place even modest payloads into orbit.  The Nina apparently also makes use of previously unknown propulsion systems, possibly the ion drives used in other contemporary novels, which allow acceleration to very high speeds if left running for long enough.

Characters in A Scourge of Screamers
 Arthur Gregson is a spaceflight engineer who helped build the Vega Jump-off station.  His twin brother Manuel is an astronaut aboard the starship Nina.  They have something of an empathic link, so that Gregson is dimly aware that his brother encountered something inexplicable on the Nina's first voyage.  Gregson is one of the first people to believe that aliens have something to do with what happened to the Nina, but is not believed until the Valorians begin appearing on Earth.  The nature of Gregson's character in the novel is somewhat passive.  He is more of a witness to events than a creator of them.  His role is to try to understand the puzzle, but not necessarily to solve it.  His virtues are faithfulness and fortitude, like John Bunyan's character Christian in The Pilgrim's Progress.
 Kenneth Wellford is Gregson's fellow engineer and close friend.  Both were recruited by SecBu for its own reasons, probably having to do with the super-suppressor project.  SecBu stole the technology from the first Valorians who made contact with Earth authorities, long before they revealed it to Gregson.  Wellford displays the stereotypical English tendency to understate things: "Unmitigated Hell, wasn't it?" is his comment on the effects of the rault burst they used to kill the SecBu conspiracy.  Wellford is a more active participant in the plot, becoming a collaborator with the Valorians in their efforts to help Earth.  In fact, since the Valorians are not interested in reforming Earth government, it is arguable that humans like Wellford are the main driving force behind the rebel movement.
 Helen Forsythe, Gregson's fiancée, lives with her blind father on a farm in Pennsylvania.  Her father has overcome his disability in ingenious ways.  Obviously he has much to gain from zylphing, which is one of the reasons Helen is willing to believe the Valorians.  After both Helen and her father disappear, Gregson believes they are held hostage by SecBu to ensure his cooperation.  In fact they were taken to safety by rebels and both were taught to zylph.  The essence of the perception is that there can be no secrets between people, but that is balanced by total understanding of others.  When Helen zylphs the affair between Gregson and Karen Rakar, she dismisses it because she sees the underlying reasons, along with Gregson's deep commitment to her.
 Weldon Radcliff, the Director of SecBu, is a squat, muscular man, powerful in all senses of the word.  As a former Screamer, he is able to use zylphing to manipulate the people around him.  However he is ruthless and cruel.  Andelia's death is ordered by him simply because she is "excess baggage".  It is this which finally turns Gregson against SecBu.
 The Valorians originate from a planet closer to Chandeen, and have been using zylphing for millennia.  Although humanoid, they are anatomically distinct even to a casual observer, but unlikely to arouse suspicion, especially in large cities where odd people are often seen on a daily basis.  They are easily recognized by anyone familiar with them, thanks to distinctive facial characteristics which cannot be disguised.  Using wigs and false fingernails is their main method of avoiding discovery.  Valorian technology is advanced compared to Earth, but they are somewhat naive and fall prey to the conspiracy when they first make contact and offer to help.  Their technology includes raultronics, which they use to build rault-suppressors and rault-casters.  The casters are their equivalent of a flashlight, allowing them to use their perceptions where rault is absent, a condition they call stygumness.  SecBu steals this technology from the early emissaries.  The Valorians do not wish to remove the existing Earth government, merely to help the people of Earth emerge from stygumness.  Without human involvement in the rebellion, they would probably allow SecBu to carry out its plans.
 Madame Carnot is the oldest and most skilled zylpher among humans.  She is, to all intents and purposes, the Queen of the conspirators, as well as being their soothsayer.  Her abilities extend to foreseeing a violent future event, but she mistakenly sees it as killing Gregson, when in fact he is present when the rebel raid kills her.

References

External links

1968 American novels
1968 science fiction novels
American science fiction novels
Fiction set in 1997