[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Claudio Marchisio

ber of the Italy squad that would take part at the 2014 FIFA World Cup. On 30 May 2014, he captained the senior team for the first time during the pre-World Cup friendly against the Republic of Ireland after Riccardo Montolivo, captain for the match, was carried off the pitch due to a fractured leg.

At the 2014 FIFA World Cup, Marchisio scored his first international goal at a major UEFA/FIFA tournament and Italy's first goal of the World Cup, a 25-yard shot against England during the Group D second opening match in an eventual 2–1 win. He appeared in Italy's next two group matches, which both ended in 1–0 defeats, to group winners Costa Rica, and runner's up Uruguay respectively. In the final group match against Uruguay, he was controversially given a straight red card in the 59th minute, his first red card as an international. The referee's failure to send Luis Suárez off for biting Giorgio Chiellini, and the fact that Uruguay went on to win 1–0 after scoring from a corner immediately following the later incident, further added to the controversy. Italy finished third in their group and were eliminated from the World Cup in the group stage for the second time in a row.

Post World Cup and injury struggles
On 27 March 2015, Marchisio suffered an injury during a training session with the Italian national team, prior to the Euro 2016 qualifying match against Bulgaria. Although it was initially feared that he had torn his anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), which would have ruled him out for six months, it was later confirmed that the injury was a sprain, and that he would only be out for several weeks. However, his former Juventus coach Antonio Conte, now the national team coach, reportedly received death threats from irate Juventus fans and was publicly criticised by John Elkann, the president of the holding company which controls FIAT and Juventus and cousin of club president Andrea Agnelli. After rupturing his anterior cruciate ligament in April 2016, Marchisio was ruled out of UEFA Euro 2016.

Under Conte's successor, manager Gian Piero Ventura, Marchisio appeared as a starter in a 3–0 friendly victory over Uruguay at the Allianz Riviera stadium in Nice, held on 7 June 2017, but was replaced by Riccardo Montolivo in the first half after sustaining an injury.

In total, Marchisio made 55 appearances for Italy between 2009 and 2017, scoring five goals.

Style of play

Marchisio is known for his versatility and ability to play anywhere in midfield, as seen in various formations and positions he has been played in by his coaches. He has been used out wide in both a three- or four-man midfield, or as a defensive midfielder, but his preferred and most effective position is that of a central midfielder, where he is given the license to freely switch between defensive and attacking positions, instead of being limited to a single role. He is sometimes classified as an attacking central midfielder (known as a mezz'ala in Italian football), due to his penchant for scoring goals, rather than as a traditional deep-lying "creative" central midfielder (known as a regista in Italian football) in the mold of Andrea Pirlo. In the English language media he has been described as a "box-to-box midfielder" as he is neither a pure defensive nor an attacking midfielder, although he is able to play in both positions when necessary. He has also occupied a deeper playmaking role for his team, in particular after Pirlo's departure in 2015, in which he has been praised for his ability to spread the ball wide, or dictate play in midfield with his passing. A former forward, with an eye for goal, he has also been fielded in more advanced roles, as a deep-lying forward or attacking midfielder in a 3–5–1–1 formation. Regarded as a precocious talent in his youth since his emergence in Juventus's starting line-up, Marchisio's physical strength, pace, energy, positional sense and tactical awareness in his prime allowed him to excel in the centre in a box-to-box midfield role, and enabled him to establish himself as one of the top midfielders of his generation in Italy, Europe, and the world. In spite of his ability, however, he has been known to have a tendency to be injury prone.