[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Muqatil ibn Sulayman

in three areas. Abu Hanifa (d. 150 H/ 767 CE) criticised his theology, Abdullah Ibn Mubarak (d. 181 H/ 797 CE) criticised his methodology (particularly that he did not quote Hadith with chains of transmission), and the accusation of being a liar is attributed to Wakee ibn al-Jarrah (d. 197/ 812 CE).

Abu Hanifa in particular warned Abu Yusuf (d. 182/798) of two groups from Khorasan, the Jahmiyyah and the Muqatiliyyah. Ibn Hajar in particular quotes the following from him: "Two disgusting opinions came to us from the east: Jahm the negator [of God’s attributes] and Muqatil the anthropomorphist." Ibn Rajab al-Hanbali stated that the early scholars (as-salaf) rejected Muqatil's views after they became known after his debate with Jahm. Some early traditionalists are said to have gone too far, with Makki ibn Ibrahim (d. 215 H), the teacher of al-Bukhari, permitting the killing of Muqatil. Some, such as Kharijah ibn Mus'ab (d. 168 H/ 785 CE), were so outraged that they said they would do the deed themselves if they could.

Hadith 
On the field of Hadith tradition, Muqatil was also rejected in Hadith, being accused of reporting hadith from those he never met, and in one instance, reportedly asking a local ruler if he wanted him to forge a Hadith.

Medieval hadith scholars such as Ahmad ibn Hanbal and Ibn Abi Hatim has said that Hadith found in the works Muqatil are fabricated, while the chains, according to Ahmad, are nonexistent at all.

Al-Bukhari (d. 256 H) rejected him saying he was nothing at all, and many other scholars of Hadith also criticised him, such as Yahya ibn Ma'in (d. 233 H), an-Nasa'i (d. 303 H) and ad-Daraqutni (d. 385) H), both of whom accused him of lying. The traditionist and historian Ibn Sa'd (d. 230) in his complete biography of Muqatil says that Muqatil was "The one who had a tafsir, He related from al-Dahhak ibn Muzahim and Ata ibn Abi Rabah, students of Ibn Abbas. Some of the people of hadith were wary of his hadith and objected to them." Ibn Sa'd describes him as one of the Fuqaha' and Hadith scholars in Khurasan and does not give him a date of death. There is however unanimous consensus that Muqatil was not a scholar of Hadith. He did not use the isnaads (chains of narration) properly. Amidst the scholars of Islam, Muqatil's reputation is that of a storyteller.

The Muhaddith Ibn Hibban (d. 354 H), author of the Sahih, summarised the opinions of the early generations on Muqatil thus, "He relied on Jewish and Christian sources in his interpretation of the Qurʾān; he was also an anthropomorphist assimilating God to His creatures; and in addition he used to forge ḥadīths"

Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi (d. 463 H) was the first to accuse him of being a story teller, and the historian Ibn Asakir (d. 571 H) was the first to be explicit about this.

Tafsir 
Aside from theology and Hadith, Muslim scholars however were at times positive about his contributions to Tafsir (exegesis of the Qur'an). Ibn Hajar (d. 852 H) for instance, who repudiates him as a liar and anthropomorphist, nevertheless brings positive comments on his Tafsir and other scholars were known to do this. Early exegete Al-Tabari (d. 310 H) even quoted his view on the mysterious letters in the Qur'an as numerical counts, but was reluctant to name Muqatil as his source, stating he was among those whose views were not to be trusted. This could suggest that Muqatil's reputation had become so tainted, that few were willing to be associated with him by al-Tabari's time.

Ibn Taymiyyah (d. 728 H) however rejects the theological criticisms of Muqatil, arguing that those who criticised him, took their material from his enemies, specifically Al-Ash'ari was to blame for taking Maqalat from the works of the Mutazila. He also rejected the accusation of anthropomorphism for Muqatil, saying he could not find any traces of anything he would consider anthropomorphic in Muqatil's works, and therefore he could not be an anthropomorphist. He quotes al-Shafi'i saying, "Whoever desires tafsir, he is dependent on Muqatil. Whosoever wants fiqh he is dependent on Abu Hanifa." Dr. Abdulkader al-Housien a Syrian tafsir scholar said that his teacher Dr. Nureddin 'Itr the famous Hadith scholar said it’s falsely attributed to imam Shafii. Ibn Taymiyyah uses his citation to argue that whilst Muqatil was not from the people who transmitted Hadith, Muqatil should be considered to have breadth of knowledge, including in Tafsir and other areas, making an analogy with Abu Hanifa and his authority in fiqh, despite, according to Ibn Taymiyyah, people disagreeing with some of his other views.

Ibn Abi al-Izz (d. 731), a follower of Ibn Taymiyyah, argued that al-Ash'ari's material originated from the Mu'tazila and/or must have been tampered with.