[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Police Coast Guard

ghts, a radar, sensors, electro-optic cameras and loudspeakers, as well as an on-board automatic fire-extinguishing system. Besides USVs, the PCG is also rolling out the use of small police drones to assist in its checks on vessels difficult to board, such as loaded barges or vessels with low draft.

Terrorism
The heightened global security alert following the 2001 September 11 terror attacks necessitated additional attention paid to preventing possible terrorist attacks by sea, a possibility underscored during the revelation of the Singapore embassies attack plot by the local Jemaah Islamiyah Islamic extremist group in December 2001, where it was revealed that Changi Naval Base was the subject of surveillance by them. There were also possible plans to bomb the United States Navy ships using the narrow channel between Pulau Tekong and Changi on the northeastern coast of Singapore. In response to these threats, the PCG stepped up routine checks on vessels in Singapore's territorial waters, in particular on passenger ferries returning from regional destinations. Since late-2004, PCG officers have given additional training in the areas of boarding vessels for this purpose and are equipped with skills in the detection of explosives, drugs and fraudulent documents, courtesy of the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority's (ICA) provision of much assistance and training towards PCG in such an endeavour.

Search and Rescue
The PCG also engages in search-and-rescue operations at sea and provided crucial assistance in the recovery of the stricken USS John S. McCain in Singapore's waters in 2017.

Manpower
The Police Coast Guard has a strength of over 1,000 personnel, making it one of the largest operational units in the Singapore Police Force. It has traditionally drawn its manpower from a common pool of officers as is the case with land divisions and most other line units. The majority were posted to the unit immediately after basic police training, while the rest were transferred from other divisions or units. In recent years, it offered an option for aspiring regular officers to apply directly to join the unit, thus needing only to attend common courses at the Home Team Academy before receiving specialised marine training for immediate posting within the unit upon graduation.

Due to the specialised nature of the job, officers with the PCG are less likely to transfer to other operational units. Senior Officers in the PCG are, however, usually posted there as part of their cyclical rotation among staff and line units after their mandatory initial posting as Investigation Officers, typically for a short stint of about two to five years. The unit's manpower is supplemented by national servicemen, as well as officers from the Volunteer Special Constabulary.

Uniforms

The evolution of uniforms worn by the Police Coast Guard largely mirrors that for the land-based divisions, with its earliest uniforms reflecting British heritage and influence. Early uniforms are based on that of navy sailors, consisting of an all-white attire of long-sleeved shirts and shorts. Officers wore the same khaki-based uniforms which were introduced in the land divisions from 1890, before switching to the Dacron blue uniform in 1969 along with the rest of the police force.

When the Marine Police was reorganised and renamed as the Police Coast Guard in 1993, the uniform was also changed to the Combat (or No. 4) Uniform. This uniform consisted of a long-sleeved shirt and long pants made of a slightly tougher polyester, and does away with almost all metal parts via the use of Velcro and plastic buttons. They don a blue beret, but are permitted to wear a baseball cap while on operational duties. Footwear is in the form of lace-up leather shoes with non-slip soles. Unlike the Combat Uniform worn by other units in the police force, the uniform adopted hidden plastic buttons to avoid entanglements, and does away with garters since shoes, and not boots, are worn to allow rapid removal should water entry be required.

In May 2005, the island Patrol Uniform was introduced, consisting of a helmet, dark blue polo top and Bermudas for officers performing bicycle patrol duties on Pulau Ubin. These were introduced to project a softer image on the island where recreational activities abound, and to provide greater comfort for the officers in the humid outdoor weather.

As part of a force-wide review of the police uniforms, the PCG adopted the new combat uniform similar to that currently worn by the Special Operations Command, albeit with a darker shade of blue. While they were introduced to overcome existing limitations of the current uniform, such as allowing for less hindrance in body movement due to the more relaxed fit, and its non-flammable properties, they met with opposition from some officers who feel it projects the wrong image to the general public, including its "technician" look. Officers began to don the new combat uniform from 21 August 2006.