[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cane Hill Hospital

the building. The fire also destroyed the iconic clock tower. At about midnight, firefighters saw the clocktower crash to the ground in the blaze. The fire had been started in the basement of the building, draughting its way up through the ground and first floors before finally destroying the roof.

Hospital cemetery
The hospital had a cemetery on Portnalls Road for inmates which was last used for burials in September 1950 and was deconsecrated and cleared at the hospital site's redevelopment in 1981 when remains of nearly 6,000 people were exhumed and cremated at Croydon Cemetery in Mitcham Road. Among the remains were those of British First World War servicemen, who were known to have had separate areas in the cemetery where they had been originally buried with military honours. Research from plans indicated there were two designated main 'Service Plots', numbered 411 and 420, where six were buried in each grave. Eighteen of these servicemen, who had qualified for commemoration by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission (CWGC), are commemorated on a memorial the CWGC erected in Croydon Cemetery, where their ashes had been scattered at 'Location 1000' in the grounds, in 2015.

Notable Patients 

Cane Hill Hospital accommodated several notable patients in its history:

 Hannah Chaplin, Charlie Chaplin's mother, was admitted to the hospital on multiple occasions suffering the effects of syphilis and the negative effects of her husband's death, Charles Chaplin Sr. 
 Terry Burns, David Bowie's half brother was admitted to the hospital after multiple suicide attempts. He escaped the hospital grounds in 1985 and took his own life at the nearby Coulsdon South railway station.
 John George Boorman, David Walliams' paternal great grandfather was admitted to the hospital on 21 October 1919, suffering shell shock from his experiences in the First World War. Boorman remained a patient for 43 years and died at the hospital on 28 September 1962. His story was later documented on the BBC television show, Who Do You Think You Are, October 2020.
 David Burchell, Micheal Caine's half brother was admitted to the hospital age 17 following an epileptic seizure. He remained a patient until the late 1980s.

Legacy
A drawing of the Cane Hill Hospital administration block is featured on the front cover of the US release of David Bowie's 1970 album The Man Who Sold the World. Metal band Cane Hill based their name on the Cane Hill Hospital.

Notes and references

Further reading

External links

Photographic tour Photographic tour of the hospital and grounds.
The Cane Hill Project exploring and documenting Cane Hill
Cane Hill Demolition A set of photos detailing the demolition of Cane Hill
Cane Hill Hospital Photographs, staff memories, and historical information about Cane Hill

Hospital buildings completed in 1882
Hospital buildings completed in 1888
Buildings and structures in the London Borough of Croydon
Defunct hospitals in London
Former psychiatric hospitals in England
1882 establishments in England
2008 disestablishments in England
Health in the London Borough of Croydon
Hospitals established in 1882
Demolished buildings and structures in England