[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# MetroLink (Dublin)

MetroLink is a proposed metro line for the city of Dublin. It replaces an earlier proposal called Metro North which was first recommended in the then Irish Government's 2005 Transport 21 transport plan.

The line is proposed to run from Estuary on Dublin's northside to Charlemont on the south of the city, with stops including Dublin Airport, O'Connell Street and St. Stephen's Green. The proposed route consists of mainly uncovered sub-surface track in the Swords area, a tunnel under Dublin Airport, further uncovered sub-surface track until the M50, with a deep bore tunnel running from Northwood to Charlemont.

While, as of March 2018, the line was planned to begin operation in 2027, as of September 2021, government representatives indicated that this target "was never likely to be achievable" with several reports indicating that the project would "not be completed until at least 2032". As of July 2022, the project was proposed to begin construction in  and that, "all going well" it could be in operation by 2035.

History

Initial proposals

The original idea for the two Metro lines in Dublin can be attributed to the November 2001 "Platform for Change" report by the Dublin Transportation Office (now part of the National Transport Authority). The purpose of the report was to come up with an integrated transportation strategy for the greater Dublin region. In its report, the DTO outlined plans for three Metro lines. The first was a north–south line which would run from Swords to Shanganagh via Dublin Airport, Finglas, Broadstone, the city centre, Ranelagh, Sandyford and Cherrywood. The second would link Tallaght West to Tallaght and then continue through the south-western suburbs of Dublin to the city centre. The third line would run in an orbital pattern, with a spur off the Swords-Shanganagh line at Finglas and then continue via Blanchardstown and Clondalkin to Tallaght, where it would connect with the other line.

Dublin Airport carried over 21 million passengers in 2006. This figure was projected to grow rapidly (as it did to 27.9 million by 2016). As a result, Transport Infrastructure Ireland identified a medium-capacity public-transport link to Dublin Airport as one of the most important gaps in the Dublin rail network.  Two options were seen as a solution to the problem:
 A spur off the existing DART line to Dublin Airport, as proposed by Iarnród Éireann.
 A metro system, running from Swords through Dublin Airport and on to the city centre, in line with the National Transport Authority's suggestions.

The metro option emerged as the preferred option, as it provided both an airport link and a commuter link.  It was described by Transport Infrastructure Ireland as "an important commuter link for the communities and institutions of North Dublin City and County". Metro North (from Swords to St. Stephen's Green) and Metro West were adopted as government policy with the launch of the Transport 21 programme in 2005.

Three potential routes for the then called Metro North were published by the Railway Procurement Agency in February 2006. The first route option went through Finglas and made use of the former Broadstone railway alignment. The second route option went  through Ballymun and was eventually adopted as the final route. The third route option went through Whitehall. After public consultation, the RPA announced in October 2006 that they had selected a routing known as the 'East/Central Combined Route'. that ran through Ballymun. A slightly updated route, with changes in proposed station names, some modifications to station locations, and details of proposed overground and underground routes through Swords was released by the RPA in March 2008.

On 22 March 2007, Transport Infrastructure Ireland began the procurement process for Metro North. In October 2007 it announced that it had a shortlist of four consortia interested in building Metro North. Draft Environmental Impact Statements were published in early 2008.

On 17 September 2008, the RPA applied for a railway order to An Bord Pleanála. Oral hearings were heard during 2009 and 2010.

On 5 October 2011, Metro North was granted planning permission by An Bord Pleanála.

It was speculated by the media that the Metro North Project would be indefinitely deferred on 12 August 2011 following a review by Leo Varadkar, then Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport. This was confirmed on 10 November 2011.

In September 2015, it was announced that Metro North was being relaunched, with a revised opening date of 2027.

In September 2021, government representatives indicated that the 2027 target would not be met and "was never likely to be achievable", with some reports projecting that construction would not commence before 2027. While included in the "National Development Plan 2021-2030", the plan included "no completion dates" for the proposed project.

Redesign as MetroLink and emerging preferred route