[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sengunthar

Sengunthar (), also known as the Kaikolar and Senguntha Mudaliar is a caste commonly found in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and also in some other parts of South India and the neighboring country Sri Lanka. In Andhra Pradesh, they are called as Kaikala or Karikala Bhaktulu, who consider the early Chola emperor Karikala Choludu as their hero. They were traditional weavers by occupation and warriors by ancient heritage. They were part of the Chola army as Kaikola regiment and were dominant during the rule of medieval Chola dynasty, holding commander and minister positions in the court. In the olden days in India, the Sengunthars were warriors and were given the title Mudaliar for their bravery. At present, most of the textile businesses in Tamil Nadu are owned by Senguntha Mudaliars. Majority of Sengunthars are sub-divided into numerous clans based on a patrilineal lineage known as Koottam or Gotra.

Etymology
The ancient occupational name of Kaikkolar comes from the words kai (hand) and kol (a shuttle used in looms). The appended -ar means people. Kaikkolar also means men with stronger arms.

Sengunthar means red spear people, which has the community’s connection to the Lord Murugan, who is known as a red god. Legend has it that there were nine commanders called Navaveerargal in Murugan’s army and Sengunthar descended from them.

In ancient times they were also called as Kaarugar (weaver), Thanthuvayar (weaver), Senguntha padaiyar (soldiers), Senaithalaivar (army commander) and Kaikolar (Weaver).

Sengunthars were given the title Mudaliar for their bravery. The twelfth century Chola emperor's court poet and minister Ottakoothar’s Itti Elupatu, a panegyric on the bravery and prowess of arms of Kaikkola warriors, says they were known as Mudaliars during the Later Chola period.

Mudali means first, suggesting that the title bearer is of the first-ranked among people. They had also used the title Nayanar after their names.

History

Origin
Shiva was enraged against the giants who harassed the people of the earth and sent forth six sparks of fire from his eyes. His wife, Parvati, was frightened, and retired to her chamber and in so doing, dropped nine beads from her anklets. Siva converted the beads into as many females, to each of whom was born a hero. These nine heroes (Navaveerargal), namely Virabahu, Virakesari, Viramahendrar, Viramaheshwar, Virapurandharar, Viraraakkathar, Viramaarthandar, Viraraanthakar and Veerathirar with Subrahmanya at their head, marched in command of a large force, and destroyed the demons. Sengunthar claim to be the descendants of these warriors. After killing the demon, the warriors were told by Siva that they adopt a profession, which would not involve the destruction or injury of any living creature and weaving being such a profession, they were trained in it. Chithira valli, daughter of Virabahu, one of the above commanders was married to King Musukuntha Cholan . The descendants of Navaveerargal and Musukunthan were claimed as first generation of Sengunthars.

Chola period
The earliest literary evidence about Sengunthar occurs in Adhi Diwakaram, a Tamil lexicon written by Sendan Diwakarar. This dictionary, probably from the 8th century CE, is thought to refer to them as weavers and army commanders, which may be indicative of their dual role in society at that time.

Inscriptions from the 11th century suggest that by the time of the Chola dynasty, the Sengunthar had already developed its involvement in weaving and trading, together with a role in military matters that was probably necessary to protect those interests. They were a part of the Ayyavole 500 trading group during the Chola period and there are also references in the 12th century that suggest they had armies and that some specific people were assigned to act as bodyguards for the Chola emperors. Such historical records emphasise their military function, with the poet Ottakoothar glorifying them and suggesting that their origins lay with the armies of the gods.

They were militarized during the medieval Chola period, when some of them held the title Brahmadaraya or Brahmamarayan, which was usually reserved for high-ranking Brahmin officials in the Chola government. They had also used the title 'Chola gangan' from the evidence "kaikolaril kali avinasi yaana ellam valla chola gangan" ,which was only used by the royal families of the chola dynasty.

Some were chieftains and commanders-in-chief of the later Cholas. Kaikkolar commanders-in-chief were known as Samanta Senapathigal or Senaithalaivar.

According to Vijaya Ramaswamy, in early thirteenth century large number of Kaikolars were migrated to Kongu Nadu from Tondaimandalam.