[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pacification of Manchukuo

The Pacification of Manchukuo was a Japanese counterinsurgency campaign to suppress any armed resistance to the newly established puppet state of Manchukuo from various anti-Japanese volunteer armies in occupied Manchuria and later the Communist Northeast Anti-Japanese United Army.  The operations were carried out by the Imperial Japanese Kwantung Army and the collaborationist forces of the Manchukuo government from March 1932 until 1942, and resulted in a Japanese victory.

Japan seizes control 
The earliest formation of large anti-Japanese partisan groups occurred in Liaoning and Jilin provinces due to the poor performance of the Fengtian Army in the first month of the Japanese invasion of Manchuria and to Japan's rapid success in removing and replacing the provincial authority in Fengtian and Jilin.

The provincial government of Liaoning Province had fled west to Jinzhou. Governor Zang Shiyi remained in Mukden, but refused to cooperate with the Japanese in establishing a separatist and collaborationist government and was imprisoned. The Kwantung Army issued a proclamation on 21 September 1931 installing Colonel Kenji Doihara as Mayor of Mukden; he proceeded to rule the city with the aid of an "Emergency Committee" composed mostly of Japanese.

On 23 September 1931, Lieutenant General Xi Qia of the Jilin Army was invited by the Japanese to form a provisional government for Jilin Province. In Jilin, the Japanese succeeded in achieving a bloodless occupation of the capital. General Xi Qia issued a proclamation on 30 September, declaring the province independent of the Republic of China under protection of the Japanese Army.

On 24 September 1931, a provisional government was formed in Fengtian (the new name of the former Liaoning Province) with Yuan Jinhai as Chairman of the "Committee for the Maintenance of Peace and Order".

In Harbin, General Zhang Jinghui also called a conference on 27 September 1931 to discuss the organization of an "Emergency Committee of the Special District", formed to achieve the secession of Harbin from China. However he was not able to act as much of the area surrounding Harbin was still held by anti-Japanese militias under Generals Ding Chao, Li Du, Feng Zhanhai and others.

Meanwhile, in Mukden, the "North Eastern Administrative Committee," or Self-Government Guiding Board, was set up on 10 November  under the leadership of Yu Chung-han, a prominent elder statesman of Chang Hsueh-liang's Government, who favored the autonomy of Manchuria. After the Japanese defeated General Ma Zhanshan and occupied Qiqihar on 19 November 1931, a local Self-Government Association was established in Heilongjiang Province; and General Zhang Jinghui was inaugurated as Governor of the Province on 1 January 1932.

After the fall of Jinzhou, the independence movement made rapid progress in northern Manchuria, where Colonel Doihara was Chief of Special Services in Harbin. General Zhang Jinghui, upon learning of the defeat of Marshal Chang Hsueh-liang at Jinzhou, agreed to the request of the Self-Government Guiding Board at Mukden and declared the independence of Heilongjiang Province on 7 January 1932. After General Ma Zhanshan had been driven from Qiqihar by the Japanese in the Jiangqiao Campaign he had retreated northeastward with his beaten and depleted forces and had set up his capital at Hailun. There he attempted to continue to govern Heilongjiang province. Colonel Kenji Doihara began negotiations with General Ma from his Special Service Office at Harbin, hoping to get him to join the new state of Manchukuo Japan was organizing. Ma continued negotiating with Doihara, while he continued to support General Ding Chao.

Early resistance: militias, brotherhoods and bandits 
The emergence of Chinese resistance to the Japanese occupation of Manchuria in the form of citizen militias, peasant brotherhoods and bandit gangs was facilitated by Japan's success in rapidly destroying Chang Hsueh-liang's government in the region. Most of the Kwantung Army's strength during November 1931 was concentrated against General Ma Zhanshan in north-central Heilongjiang, and in December and early January against Chang Hsueh-liang's remaining army in Jinzhou in southwestern Liaoning. Away from the Japanese garrisons in cities and along the railroads, resistance units mustered openly and relatively free from molestation in late 1931-early 1932.