[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Duquesne-class cruiser

The Duquesne-class cruiser was a group of two heavy cruisers built for the French Navy in the mid 1920s, the first such vessels built for the French fleet. The two ships in the class were the  and .

With the ratification of the Washington Naval Treaty of 1922, France could not ignore the ramifications of the cruiser article.  To maintain her position of a major naval power she would have to follow the other four major naval powers with her own 10,000 ton - 8 inch gun cruiser.  The only modern cruiser design Service techniques des constructions navales (STNC - Constructor's Department) had to draw on was the recently designed 8,000 ton  design.  The cruiser design authorized under the 1924 build program would sacrifice protection for speed while maintaining the 10,000 ton displacement restriction while mounting 8 inch guns. Two vessels would be authorized and would be known as the Duquesne-class cruiser.

Initially classed as a light cruiser, both ships were reclassified on 1 July 1931 as first class cruisers. The French Navy did not have a vessel classification of heavy cruiser instead used armoured cruiser and light cruiser prior to the London Naval Treaty then first class cruiser and second class cruiser afterwards.

Design and description

Hull and protection
The design was an enlargement of the  light cruiser with standard displacement raised to 10,000 tons.  The hull was lengthened to a length between perpendiculars of  with an overall length of  and a beam of .  The framing in a French hull was numbered from aft to stem, therefore frame no 1 would be the aft perpendicular frame with the frames being numbered by the distance in meters from the aft perpendicular.  With the increase of the standard displacement to  the draft of the ship would increase to .

The protection was minimal as in the previous Duguay-Trouin class and was minimally increased by 50 percent in the Duquesne class using the same armour layout.  Protection over the magazines was  with  crowns, the protective deck would be . The conning tower and turrets would be .  The hull was divided by 16 bulkheads into 17 watertight compartments.  The walls of the transverse bulkheads at each end of the machinery spaces was increased to  to limit flooding to three compartments for mine or torpedo hits.  Each compartment would be watertight from keel to main deck with its own pumps and ventilation.  The steering gear was protected with  plates.

Machinery
To maintain the 10,000-ton limitation the STNC determined that using the same machinery at the previous class would have put the ships at 200 tons over the limit to achieve the 34 knot speed desired.  The STNC therefore put the machinery out for bid.  AC Bretagne came up with an eight boiler four shaft solution producing 155,000 CV for  at normal displacement.  The ships would be equipped with eight Guyot du Temple small tube boilers built by Indret rated at  while operating at  setup in four boiler rooms.  The forward two rooms would feed the forward engine room and vent through the forward funnel.  The midships boiler rooms would feed the aft engine room and vent through the aft funnel. Four identical single reduction gear Rateau-Bretagne stem turbines would produce the 120,000 CV (chevaux - horses)* to achieve the required speed.  Two cruising turbines were fitted to the inboard shafts to achieve the  at  requirement. The boilers would be oil fired with a maximum load of 1,842 tons of oil giving an endurance of 5,000 nmi at 15 knots,  at  and  at .  The ships would have two centerline rudders.  The first would be  and the aft rudder would be twice as large at .  They had a large tactical radius as with all French ships of this period.