[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# May 1974

rafters from an arson fire in a neighboring alley the previous night.
Died: Cardinal Jean Daniélou, 69, French Roman Catholic cardinal, appointed as a professor of theology and "one of the few priests to be named a cardinal without having served as a bishop or in any other administrative function".

May 21, 1974 (Tuesday)
The largest case of cheating at the United States Naval Academy was carried out at Annapolis, Maryland, when at least 60 and perhaps as many as 150 of 965 sophomore midshipmen were caught with the answers to the final exam in the Academy's class on navigation. In 1965, 109 cadets at the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado, had been forced to resign after being caught cheating. The leaked answers were traced to a U.S. Navy quartermaster who had given the information to 150 sophomores, one-sixth of the class of 1976. The 965 all took a new final exam on May 29.
Thailand's Prime Minister Sanya Dharmasakti (also called Sanya Thammasak) and his cabinet resigned following public criticism over their inability to handle the Asian kingdom's skyrocketing inflation. Premier Sanya told a delegation of supporters later, "I wonder whether it was the right thing. I am very tired. So many people wanted so many things. I just made the decision that I can't stay any longer. I may enter the monkhood." After being asked by people from "all sectors of the country" to reconsider, Sanya announced that he would bring in 14 younger men to replace ministers who had resigned from the 28-member cabinet and was reappointed five days later.
Fire destroyed Bob Stupak's World Famous Million Dollar Historic Gambling Museum and Casino on the Las Vegas Strip. Firefighters recovered currency the museum had used as wallpaper.
Born: Fairuza Balk, American film actress known for Return to Oz and The Craft; in Point Reyes, California
Died: Lily Kronberger, 83, Hungarian figure skater and winner of four consecutive ladies singles world championships (1908, 1909, 1910 and 1911)

May 22, 1974 (Wednesday)
What is now the world's largest national park, the Grønlands Nationalpark, was established by Denmark with the protection of  of uninhabited territory in northeast Greenland. In 1988, it would be expanded to its current size of .
The Disaster Relief Act of 1974, authorizing the U.S. president to make declarations in order to hasten the sending of federal money to disaster-stricken areas in the United States and its territories, was signed into law by President Richard Nixon, after having passed 91 to 0 in the U.S. Senate and 392 to 0 in the House of Representatives.
U.S. President Nixon informed the House Judiciary Committee that he would refuse to obey any further subpoenas for evidence or appearances.
Born: Henrietta Ónodi, Hungarian artistic gymnast, 1992 Olympic gold medalist in the vault; in Békéscsaba, Békés County
Died: Irmgard Flügge-Lotz, 70, German-American mathematician and aerospace engineer