[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Education in Peru

education and that of that percentage, thirty percent spoke Spanish while twenty-one percent spoke an indigenous language. It was also revealed in the 2017 report that while forty-nine percent of Peruvians in urban areas had internet access, only eleven percent of citizens in rural areas had access.

Rural and indigenous students 
Rural students have a higher likelihood of temporarily or permanently dropping out of school to find work, usually in hazardous mining or construction sites, to provide for their families. Some children may need to travel three hours to get to school, some even have to walk eight hours a day. Teachers in rural area often experience long commutes that cause a delay in classes.

Indigenous students in Peru are at a disadvantage because children learn more if they are taught in their native language. Indigenous languages have historically been suppressed and stigmatized by colonizers in replacement of learning Spanish, which has become the dominant language in schools (and the country). The recent movement to reincorporate indigenous languages has been mostly dominated by wealthy, educated Peruvians. Indigenous parents tend to not want their children to learn their native language in school since Spanish is required for high paying jobs and career opportunities. These parents condemn non-indigenous activists who try to force their own point-of-view on parents to shape perspectives of their own culture. However, defining Spanish as the dominant language in the education system lead to a loss of indigenous cultural identity and feelings of inferiority about indigenous peoples.

By the early 2000s, indigenous and ally groups began to reintroduce discussion about Quechua language rights in schools. The state itself has done little in granting Quechua and Quechua-speakers the rights they deserve. The laws that have been passed have either been undone or are not implemented. Article 17 of the Peruvian constitution states, “The government promotes…bilingual and intercultural education in accordance with the individual characteristics of each zone. It preserves the country's various cultural and linguistic manifestations. It promotes national integration."

Indigenous students have lower levels of achievement in comparison to their Spanish counterparts. In the four PISA studies Peru has participated in to test learning outcomes in reading, mathematics, and science, ethnicity (as well as socioeconomic status) has been correlated with low academic achievement. Indigenous students are more likely to have to work while undergoing schooling, live in rural areas where quality education is lacking, and face language barriers which negatively impact learning outcomes.

Quality 
Peru's education quality has remained poor throughout its history. Though the Peruvian government oversees education throughout the nation with the Ministry of Education, regulation is decentralized since authority is passed down to lower branches of the ministry. Teachers in Peru are unmotivated and distressed also by low wages – the lowest of any country in Latin America – lacking of government support, they receiving poor education themselves without regulation and are often overwhelmed by large class size. It has been recommended that Peru improve its funding of public education while also creating a system to evaluate the quality of teaching in schools.

In higher education, a lack of regulation and accreditation has also resulted in poor educational quality. There has also been a lack of interest regarding research in Peru as the nation's economy primarily relies on mining resources – which does not require advanced scientific or technological capabilities – resulting in lower quality universities.

References

Bibliography

External links 
  Web portal of the Ministry of Education

 
Society of Peru