[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Wanted sa Radyo

Wanted sa Radyo () is a public affairs show that airs on Monday to Friday from 2:00 to 4:00 pm (PST) on 92.3 Radyo5 True FM (DWFM) with simulcast on television via One PH and online via livestreaming on the "Raffy Tulfo in Action" YouTube channel and Facebook page. It also replays on Tuesday to Friday from 2:30 to 4:30 am, Saturdays from 2:00 to 4:00 pm, and Sundays from 2:00 to 4:00 am and 9:00 pm to 11:00 pm on One PH. It is hosted by Senator Raffy Tulfo, alongside Sharee Roman. Whenever Tulfo is absent from the show mostly due to his duties as a senator, he is filled in by his daughter Maricel Tulfo-Tungol, his son-in-law Atty. Gareth Tungol, his co-parent-in-law Atty. Danilo Tungol, Atty. Blessie Abad, Atty. Gabriel Ilaya, Atty. Ina Magpale, Atty. Gail Dela Cruz, Atty. Joren Tan, Atty. Freddie Villamor, Atty. Pau Cruz, Atty. Paul Castillo, Aanaan Singh, or Marsh Salcedo.

History
Wanted sa Radyo first aired on DZXL-AM from 1994 to 2010. It transferred to the newly-launched Radyo5 92.3 News FM (now 92.3 Radyo5 True FM) in 2010, while retaining Raffy Tulfo and Niña Taduran as its hosts with the same airtime from 2:00 pm to 4:00 pm.

Its television simulcast began on February 21, 2011, with the launch of AksyonTV. From January to May 2012, the show used to temporarily air for one hour from 12:30 pm to 1:30 pm whenever Radyo5 and AksyonTV aired the News5 coverage of the impeachment trial of then-Chief Justice Renato Corona at 1:30 pm onwards. On December 23, 2013, the Radyo5 studios used by the show moved from the TV5 Studio Complex in Novaliches, Quezon City to TV5 Media Center in Mandaluyong.

On October 15, 2018, Niña Taduran left the show to run for party-list representative for ACT-CIS in 2019. She was replaced by Sharee Roman. The TV simulcast was carried over to One PH in January 2019, when AksyonTV was rebranded as 5 Plus.

From October 18, 2021, the show moved from TV5 Media Center to its new studio at the Raffy Tulfo Action Center in Quezon City and it went online-only where it is exclusively livestreamed on "Raffy Tulfo in Action" YouTube channel. Replay episodes were being aired until October 20, 2021, on their regular timeslot on Radyo5 92.3 News FM and One PH before live broadcasts resumed on the next day. An online-only hour-long extended edition of the show was also launched on the same day.

On February 8, 2022, Tulfo took a leave from the show to focus on his Senate campaign; he returned to the show on May 10. The show still continues streaming online even if Radyo5 and One PH air a One News special coverage.

On August 12, 2022, Tulfo revealed that the show would return to the TV5 Media Center starting August 15. As a result, it reverted to its regular two-hour timeslot. The hour-long online-exclusive extended edition was moved to 6:00–7:00 pm, this time re-titled as RTIA: Bardagulan Serye with Roman and Tulfo-Tungol as hosts; it later returned airing from 4:00–5:00 pm.

Format
The show investigates and exposes cases of abuse, dishonesty, exploitation, and family disputes ("Sumbong at Aksyon"), as well as recognizes ordinary people who return items of value that they find in their course of work ("Solian ng Bayan"). The show regularly emphasizes Tulfo's no-nonsense approach and interrogation, sometimes laced with profanity.

The most common feature of the show is "Sumbong at Aksyon", where complainants tell Tulfo about their situation and seek assistance to resolve it. Tulfo puts the other party on the air to get their side of the story and encourages both parties to talk to each other in the air. Tulfo may occasionally conclude that the complainant is the one who committed something wrong and, as such, may refuse further assistance; in rare cases, Tulfo himself may even take action against the complainant (e.g. refer him/her to the police and file charges) if warranted. After hearing both sides of the story, Tulfo may contact someone in a position (e.g. high-ranking police officials or social workers) to further assist the aggrieved party. An average of four sets of complainants are featured during the show. If a complainant's conversation with the other party is quite lengthy and time is about to run out, they may be asked to continue it off-air.

The final show of each month begins with an awarding ceremony featuring people who returned items to their owners in the "Solian ng Bayan" segments aired throughout the month. The awardees receive a medal, plaque, cash reward, and items from the sponsors; these are in addition to the cash reward and items received during the "Solian ng Bayan" segment in which they appeared.

Internet and social media