[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# Democratic Party (United States)

e members of the Senate Democratic Caucus.

Marital status and parenthood 
Americans that identify as single, living with a domestic partner, divorced, separated, or widowed are more likely to vote Democratic in contrast to married Americans who split about equally between Democrats and Republicans.

General Social Surveys of more than 11,000 Democrats and Republicans conducted between 1996 and 2006 came to the result that the differences in fertility rates are not statistically significant between these parties, with the average Democrat having 1.94 children and the average Republican having 1.91 children. However, there is a significant difference in fertility rates between the two related groups, liberals and conservatives, with liberals reproducing at a much lower rate than conservatives.

LGBT Americans 

According to exit polling, LGBT Americans typically vote Democratic in national elections within the 70–80% range. In heavily gay precincts in large cities across the nation, the average was higher, ranging from 85% to 94%. This trend has continued since 1996 when Bill Clinton won 71% of the LGBT vote compared to Bob Dole's 16%. In 2000 Al Gore won 70% to George W. Bush's 25%; in 2004 John Kerry won 77% to George W. Bush's 23%; in 2008 Barack Obama won 70% to John McCain's 27%; in 2012 Barack Obama won 76% to Mitt Romney's 22%; in 2016 Hillary Clinton won 78% to Donald Trump's 14%; and in 2020 Joe Biden won 73% to Donald Trump's 25%. Patrick Egan, a professor at New York University specializing in LGBT voting patterns, calls this a "remarkable continuity", saying that "about three-fourths vote Democratic and one-fourth Republican from year to year".

Notable LGBT Democrats include Senator Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin, Representative Becca Balint of Vermont, Representative Mark Pocan of Wisconsin, Governor Tina Kotek of Oregon, and Governor Jared Polis of Colorado. The late activist and San Francisco Supervisor Harvey Milk was a Democrat, as is former Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts. As of the 118th Congress, there are 10 Democrats in the House and 3 members of the Senate Democratic Caucus who identify as LGBT.

The Stonewall Democrats is an LGBT advocacy group associated with the Democratic Party. The Congressional Equality Caucus is a congressional caucus of 195 Democrats (as of 2023) that advocates for LGBT rights within the House of Representatives.

By winning the 2020 Iowa Democratic presidential caucuses, former Mayor of South Bend, Indiana, Pete Buttigieg became the first openly gay candidate to win a presidential primary or caucus. In December 2020, Buttigieg was selected to serve as United States Secretary of Transportation, and he became the first openly gay cabinet secretary to be confirmed by the U.S. Senate in February 2021.

African Americans 

From the end of the Civil War to the early 20th century, African Americans primarily favored the Republican Party due to its role in achieving the abolition of slavery, particularly through President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. The South had long been a Democratic stronghold, with the ranks of the fledgling Ku Klux Klan composed almost entirely of white Democrats who were angry over the treatment they had received at the hands of Northerners and also bent on reversing the policies of Reconstruction.

African Americans began drifting to the Democratic Party when Franklin D. Roosevelt was elected president. Support for the civil rights movement in the 1960s by Democratic presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson helped give the Democrats even greater support in the African American community, which has consistently voted between 85% and 95% Democratic from the 1960s to the present day, making African Americans one of the biggest support groups in any US party.

Prominent modern-day African American Democratic politicians include Jim Clyburn, Maxine Waters, Barbara Lee, Raphael Warnock, John Lewis, Karen Bass, Ayanna Pressley, Ilhan Omar, Senator Cory Booker, Vice President Kamala Harris, and former President Barack Obama, who managed to win over 95% of the African-American vote in the 2008 election. Despite not having a partisan affiliation, the NAACP often participates in organizing voter turnout drives and advocates for progressive causes, especially, those that affect people of color.

Within the 118th United States Congress, the Congressional Black Caucus, consisting of 56 Black Democrats, serves to represent the interests of African Americans and advocate on issues that affect them.

Hispanic and Latino Americans