[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Kristina Keneally

use in confession; she believes it is not the most effective way to prevent abuse. Keneally also attended the Rambam Israel Fellowship Program in Israel, sponsored by the Australia/Israel and Jewish Affairs Council. The lobby group funded "transport, accommodation, meals and other associated costs".

After the 2019 federal election, new leader Anthony Albanese expressed his intention to bring Keneally onto the frontbench despite opposition from the NSW Right faction. On 29 May, Ed Husic announced his resignation from the frontbench and endorsed Keneally as his replacement. On 30 May, Labor's deputy leader in the Senate Don Farrell announced his resignation from the position to make way for a gender-balanced leadership team (since 2013, two of the four leadership positions were held by women). Keneally was subsequently announced as the new Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, Shadow Minister for Home Affairs, and Shadow Minister for Immigration and Citizenship in the Albanese shadow cabinet. She resigned from the senate on 13 April 2022.

Fowler candidacy, 2022
In September 2021, it was reported that Keneally would seek preselection for the Division of Fowler in the House of Representatives to succeed retiring MP Chris Hayes at the 2022 federal election. 

This occurred after Tu Le, a Vietnamese-Australian lawyer was endorsed by Hayes. Le was his preferred candidate due to her ability to reflect the multiculturalism of the area and her strong links to the community. The electorate of Fowler includes Sydney suburbs such as Cabramatta and Liverpool which has a population of over 50,000 Asian-Australians. Though Keneally moved to the seat after winning preselection, she did not have roots within the electorate and previously resided on Scotland Island in the Northern Beaches area of Sydney. The push for a white American-born woman with limited connections to a safe Labor seat primarily made up of people of Asian or Middle Eastern background, including a large proportion of recent migrants and refugees, was criticised by Labor MPs such as Anne Aly and Peter Khalil. Others, including former prime minister Paul Keating, supported Keneally, who was installed by party leadership without a pre-selection ballot. Independent Dai Le, a Vietnamese refugee and former Liberal Party councillor and candidate, nominated for the seat, and defeated Keneally in one of only two Labor losses at the 2022 federal election.

Personal life
Keneally is married to former Mayor of Botany Bay, Ben Keneally; together they have two sons. A daughter died at birth. Her husband is the nephew of Australian writer Thomas Keneally. Keneally is the patron of the Stillbirth Foundation Australia.

Keneally and her family previously lived in Pagewood, within the electorate of Heffron which she represented in state parliament. In 2016, Keneally and her husband sold their home and moved across Sydney to a rented home in Hunters Hill. Together they own a $1.8 million home on the isolated Scotland Island on the Northern Beaches of Sydney and a townhouse in Wollstonecraft purchased for $1.3 million in 2016. Keneally and her family moved to Liverpool prior to contesting the local seat of Fowler at the 2022 federal election.

In late 2022, Keneally was appointed as chief executive officer of the Sydney Children's Hospitals Foundation, which raises funds for children's healthcare.

Keneally is a supporter of the South Sydney Rabbitohs in the NRL.

Keneally is ketogenic.

Publications

See also

 Keneally ministry
 2011 New South Wales state election
 List of female heads of government in Australia

References

External links
 Australian Senate – Senator the Hon Kristina Keneally
 
 Personal website – kristinakeneally.com.au 

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1968 births
American emigrants to Australia
Australian chief executives
Australian Roman Catholics
Australian feminists
Living people
Marquette University alumni
Members of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly
Naturalised citizens of Australia
Politicians from the Las Vegas Valley
Politicians from Toledo, Ohio
Former United States citizens
Politicians from Sydney
Premiers of New South Wales
University of Dayton alumni
Australian sports executives and administrators
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of New South Wales
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Australia
Labor Right politicians
Australian republicans
Sky News Australia reporters and presenters
21st-century Australian politicians
21st-century Australian women politicians
Women heads of government of Australian states and territories
Women members of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly
Women members of the Australian Senate
Members of the Australian Senate
Members of the Australian Senate for New South Wales
Politicians from Las Vegas
Catholic feminists
Catholics from Nevada
Catholics from Ohio
Nevada Democrats
Ohio Democrats
Women deputy opposition leaders
Foreign born Australian politicians