[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2007 cyberattacks on Estonia

involvement, the decision of Russian authorities not to pursue individuals responsible—a treaty obligation—together with expert opinion that Russian security services could readily track down the culprits should they so desire, leads Russia observers to conclude the attacks served Russian interests.

On May 23, 2012, the Atlantic Council convened a retrospective conference, "Building a Secure Cyber Future: Attack on Estonia, Five Years On" in which cyber-experts who had been involved in the conflict discussed lessons learned and how the field of cyber-conflict was changed by the Estonian attack and the following year's attack on Georgia. The conference was organized by Jason Healey, director of the Atlantic Council's Cyber Statecraft Initiative, and featured talks by Jaan Priisalu, Director General of Estonia's Information System Authority; Bill Woodcock, an American cybersecurity expert who assisted in the defense; Jonatan Vseviov, then Minister of Defense and subsequently Ambassador to the United States; Heli Tiirmaa-Klaar, Estonian Ambassador-at-Large for Cybersecurity; and others. Priisalu discussed the attack's impact on the Estonian financial system, while Woodcock described the methods the Estonian CERT used to coordinate defensive actions with network operators and their counterparts in neighboring countries, and Vseviov talked about the broader societal implications of the attack, and NATO's Article 5 obligations.

Claiming responsibility for the attacks 
A Commissar of the Nashi pro-Kremlin youth movement in Moldova and Transnistria, Konstantin Goloskokov (Goloskov in some sources), admitted organizing cyberattacks against Estonian government sites. 
Goloskokov stressed, however, that he was not carrying out an order from Nashi's leadership and said that a lot of his fellow Nashi members criticized his response as being too harsh.

Like most countries, Estonia does not recognise Transnistria, a secessionist region of Moldova. As an unrecognised nation, Transnistria does not belong to Interpol. Accordingly, no Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty applies.  If residents of Transnistria were responsible, the investigation may be severely hampered, and even if the investigation succeeds finding likely suspects, the legal recourse of Estonian authorities may be limited to issuing all-EU arrest warrants for these suspects.  Such an act would be largely symbolic.

Head of Russian Military Forecasting Center, Colonel Anatoly Tsyganok confirmed Russia's ability to conduct such an attack when he stated: "These attacks have been quite successful, and today the alliance had nothing to oppose Russia's virtual attacks", additionally noting that these attacks did not violate any international agreement.

Influence on international military doctrines 
The attacks triggered a number of military organizations around the world to reconsider the importance of network security to modern military doctrine. On 14 June 2007, defence ministers of NATO members held a meeting in Brussels, issuing a joint communiqué promising action by the autumn of 2007. NATO's Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence (CCDCOE) was established in Tallinn on 14 May 2008.

On 25 June 2007, Estonian president Toomas Hendrik Ilves met with US president George W. Bush. Among the topics discussed were the attacks on Estonian infrastructure.

The events have been reflected in a NATO Department of Public Diplomacy short movie War in Cyberspace.

See also
Bronze Night
Cyberattacks during the 2008 South Ossetia war
Fatal System Error
Russian influence operations in Estonia

References

External links

 Cyber War I: Estonia Attacked from Russia, by Kertu Ruus, European Affairs: Volume number 9, Issue number 1–2 in the Winter/Spring of 2008.
 Estonian attacks were a cyber riot, not warfare, by Bill Brenner, 6 August 2007.
 Black Hat 2007: Estonia: Information Warfare and Strategic Lessons, by Gadi Evron, 26 Jul 2007.
 Estonia urges firm EU, NATO response to new form of warfare: cyber-attacks
 Massive DDoS attacks target Estonia; Russia accused
 Cyberattack on Estonia stirs fear of 'virtual war' 
 Estonia accuses Russia of 'cyberattack'
 Virtual harassment, but for real
 Digital Fears Emerge After Data Siege in Estonia
 EU urged to deepen cooperation after Estonia cyber-attacks
 The cyber pirates hitting Estonia
 Estonia hit by 'Moscow cyber war'
 Analysis: Who cyber smacked Estonia? by Shaun Waterman, UPI
Hackers take down the most wired country in Europe by Joshua Davis, Wired, 2007-08-21.
 Georgetown Journal of International Affairs report – Battling Botnets and Online Mobs by Gadi Evron who wrote the postmortem analysis of the attacks for the Estonian CERT

Estonia
Cyberattacks
Estonia–Russia relations
Internet in Estonia