[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Ryukyu independence movement

ng ties with the Okinawan independence movement  through academic exchanges, with the intent of sparking a split within Japan". The report was harshly criticized as baseless by the independence group professors asserting that the conference at Beijing University in May 2016 had no such connotations.

In August 2020, the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), a U.S. think tank, summarized that "China uses indirect methods to influence Japan. There are hidden channels, such as influencing Okinawa's movements through fundraising, influencing Okinawan newspapers to promote Okinawa's independence, and eliminating U.S. forces there." In contrast, the Okinawa Times and Ryukyu Shimpo published articles denying Chinese funding. In light of the Okinawan newspaper articles, Tetsuhide Yamaoka, who supervised the Japanese translation of the Silent Invasion written by Clive Hamilton, gave a lecture titled "Silent Invasion: What Okinawans Want You to Know About China's Gentry Craft" at the Urasoe City Industrial Promotion Center on October 10, 2020, organized by the Japan Okinawa Policy Research Forum. In his lecture, "Silent Invasion: How the CCP is working to make Okinawa Prefecture a dependency of China," Yamaoka stated that the CCP "uses indirect methods that are less visible, such as advertisements, rather than stocks, etc."

In October 2021, the French military school Institute for Strategic Studies (IRSEM) reported that China is stirring up independence movements in the Ryukyu Islands and French New Caledonia in an attempt to weaken potential enemies. It stated that for China, Okinawa is intended to "sabotage the Self-Defense Forces and U.S. forces in Japan."

There are also some people with official positions who, in their private capacity, openly believe that Japanese rule over the Ryukyus has no legitimacy. For example, , a researcher at the Ministry of Commerce, has claimed that "75% of Ryukyu residents support Ryukyu independence" and that "the culture of the Ryukyu Islands was identical to that of the Mainland China before the Japanese invasion". However, despite the increase in the number of voices in China, it is generally agreed that this does not represent the viewpoint of the Chinese government, at least not the official position on the surface.  However, these mainly private voices have elicited strong responses from the Japanese political establishment, such as Kan's statement that "Okinawa Prefecture is undoubtedly Japanese territory, both historically and internationally. In 2010, the Preparatory Committee for the  was registered in Hong Kong, with businessman  as its president. The organization is active in mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, with offices in Shenzhen.

The Chinese Ryukyu Special Autonomous Region has also been in contact with Taiwan's Bamboo Union and the Chinese Unification Promotion Party, a political party of the reunification movement. In 2015, CUPP President Chang An-lo visited the organisation's office in Shenzhen, and in the same month, CUPP leader Chang An-lo went on a sightseeing trip to Okinawa and was received by the cadres of the Kyokuryū-kai. Chang An-lo said that "the relationship between the Ryukyu and China is historically intertwined, and it is my duty as a Chinese to make Ryukyu free from Japan".

Against this background, the phrase "Today, Hong Kong; tomorrow, Taiwan" was quoted in Hong Kong and Taiwan during the Umbrella Movement, giving rise to the phrase “Today’s Hong Kong is Tomorrow’s Taiwan, and the Day After is Okinawa and Japan" in Japan.

Polls

In 2005, Lim John Chuan-tiong (林泉忠), an associate professor at the University of the Ryukyus, conducted a telephone poll of Okinawans over 18. He obtained useful replies from 1029 people. Asked whether they considered themselves Okinawan (沖縄人), Japanese (日本人), or both, the answers were 40.6%, 21.3%, and 36.5% respectively. When asked whether Okinawa should become independent if the Japanese government allowed (or did not allow) Okinawa to freely decide its future, 24.9% replied Okinawa should become independent with permission, and 20.5% in case of no permission from the Japanese government. Those who believed Okinawa should not declare independence were 58.7% and 57.4% respectively.

In a 2011 poll 4.7% of surveyed were pro-independence, 15% wanted more devolution, while around 60% preferred the political status quo. In a 2015 poll by Ryūkyū Shimpō 8% of the surveyed were pro-independence, 21% wanted more self-determination as a region, while the other 2/3 favored the status quo.