[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Presidency of Dwight D. Eisenhower

ned after less than a year in office, and was replaced by James P. Mitchell.

Eisenhower suffered a major political defeat when his nomination of Lewis Strauss as a later Secretary of Commerce was defeated in the U.S. Senate in 1959, in part due to Strauss's role in the Oppenheimer security hearing.

Vice presidency
Eisenhower, who disliked partisan politics and politicians, left much of the building and sustaining of the Republican Party to Vice President Nixon. Eisenhower knew how ill-prepared Vice President Truman had been on major issues such as the atomic bomb when he suddenly became president in 1945, and therefore made sure to keep Nixon fully involved in the administration. He gave Nixon multiple diplomatic, domestic, and political assignments so that he "evolved into one of Ike's most valuable subordinates." The office of vice president was thereby fundamentally upgraded from a minor ceremonial post to a major role in the presidential team. Nixon went well beyond the assignment, "[throwing] himself into state and local politics, making hundreds of speeches across the land. With Eisenhower uninvolved in party building, Nixon became the de facto national GOP leader."

Press corps

In his two terms he delivered about 750 speeches and conducted 193 news conferences.  On January 19, 1955, Eisenhower became the first president to conduct a televised news conference. 
Reporters found performance at press conferences as awkward. Some concluded mistakenly that he was ill-informed or merely a figurehead. At times, he was able to use his reputation to deliberately obfuscate his position on difficult subjects. 
His press secretary, James Hagerty, was known for providing much more detail on the lifestyle of the president than previous press secretaries; for example, he covered in great detail Eisenhower's medical condition.  Most of the time, he handled routine affairs such as daily reports on presidential activities, defending presidential policies, and assisting  diplomatic visitors.  He handled embarrassing episodes, such as those related to the Soviet downing of an American spy plane, the U-2 in 1960. He handled press relations on Eisenhower's international trips, sometimes taking the blame from a hostile foreign press.  Eisenhower often relied upon him for advice about public opinion, and how to phrase complex issues. Hagerty had a reputation for supporting civil rights initiatives. Historian Robert Hugh Ferrell considered him to be the best press secretary in presidential history, because he "organized the presidency for the single innovation in press relations that has itself almost changed the nature of the nation's highest office in recent decades."

Continuity of government

A group of three federal government officials and six private U.S. citizens was secretly tasked by the president in 1958 to serve as federal administrators in the event of a national emergency, such as a nuclear attack. Eisenhower discussed the issues with each appointee and then personally sent letters of confirmation. The selection and appointment of these administrator-designates was classified Top Secret. In an emergency, each administrator was to take charge of a specifically activated agency to maintain the continuity of government. Named to the group were:

 Theodore F. Koop, Vice President of CBSEmergency Censorship Agency
 Frank Stanton, President of CBSEmergency Communications Agency
 John Ed Warren, Senior Vice President of First National City BankEmergency Energy and Minerals Agency
 Ezra Taft Benson, Secretary of AgricultureEmergency Food Agency
 Aksel Nielsen, President of Title Guaranty CompanyEmergency Housing Agency
 James P. Mitchell, Secretary of LaborEmergency Manpower Agency
 Harold Boeschenstein, President of Owens-Corning FiberglassEmergency Production Agency
 William McChesney Martin, Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board of GovernorsEmergency Stabilization Agency
 Frank Pace, Executive Vice President of General DynamicsEmergency Transport Agency (resigned January 8, 1959)
 George P. Baker, Dean of Harvard Business SchoolEmergency Transport Agency (after January 8, 1959)

Judicial appointments