[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Federal Office for Information Security

nd defense measures. This is based on a holistic approach that brings together the various threats in cyberspace: Cyber espionage, cyber spying, cyber terrorism and cyber crime. The goal is a rapid exchange of information, rapid assessments and concrete recommendations for action derived from these.

Alliance for Cyber Security
The Alliance for Cyber Security, or Allianz für Cyber-Sicherheit, is an initiative of the German Federal Office for Information Security (BSI). It was launched 2012 in public–private partnership cooperation with the German Association for Information Technology, Telecommunications and New Media (Bitkom). As a members-only association major players in the field of cyber security in Germany aim to provide up-to-date and valid information on threats in cyberspace and supports the exchange of information, experience and best practices between participants. More than 6,800 institutions as of 2023 belong to the Alliance for Cyber Security, including 180 partner companies and 110 multipliers. Participation is free of charge and can be applied for by any German institution.

UP KRITIS
The UP KRITIS (UP stands for implementation plan) is a public-private cooperation between operators of critical infrastructures (KRITIS), their various associations and the responsible governmental agencies such as the BSI. It addresses eight of the nine critical infrastructure sectors. The sector "state and administration" is covered by the UP BUND and activities on state and municipal level. The goal of the UP KRITIS cooperation is to maintain the supply of critical infrastructure services in Germany. All organizations based in Germany that operate critical infrastructures in Germany, national professional and industry associations from the KRITIS sectors and the responsible authorities can participate in UP KRITIS upon application.

BSI for citizens
The tasks of the BSI include informing and sensitizing citizens to the safe use of information technology, mobile communication media and the Internet. The BSI therefore offers online content specially tailored to the needs of citizens (BSI für Bürger). The website covers topics and information on IT and Internet security in a way that is understandable even for technical laypersons. In addition to providing information, the BSI also offers specific and actionable recommendations, for example on topics such as e-mail encryption, smartphone security, online banking, cloud computing or social networks. Private users can also contact the BSI by phone or e-mail with their questions on IT and Internet security issues. In addition, the BSI offers a free warning and information service called "Bürger-CERT", which informs citizens and small businesses quickly and competently about weaknesses, security gaps and other risks and provides practical guidance.

Leadership
 2016–2022: Arne Schönbohm
 2023–present: Claudia Plattner

See also
 ENISA
 National Cyberdefence Centre
 Central Office for Information Technology in the Security Sector (ZITiS)

References

External links

English BSI publications 
Interview with President Michael Hange 

German federal agencies
Science and technology in Germany
Security organizations
Computer security organizations
Federal authorities in Bonn
Privacy in Germany