[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# July 1976

nd "Lion Country Safari" wildlife preserve in Ohio was killed by a lion.  John McCann was found more than 15 feet away from his vehicle, having gotten out while on duty.
Died: 
Afro Basaldella, 64, Italian artist generally referred to as "Afro"
Paul Morand, 88, French short-story author and novelist

July 25, 1976 (Sunday)
The Viking 1 orbiter took photos of the Cydonia region of the planet Mars, capturing the now-famous picture of the Face on Mars, which NASA released six days later.
A computer won a chess tournament against human opponents for the first time, when the Chess 4.5 computer's moves and responses defeated all five players in the Class B (1600–1799) division of the annual Paul Masson chess tournament in Saratoga, California. 
Italian mobster Renato Vallanzasca escaped from prison after getting himself hospitalized and taking advantage of the lone policeman assigned to guard him. For the next seven months, he committed 70 armed robberies before being recaptured.
A 30-year-old taxi driver in Washington, D.C., was shot and killed after scaling the fence surrounding the grounds of the White House and advancing toward the Executive Mansion with a long metal pipe.  The intruder, Chester M. Plummer, attempted to strike U.S. Army PFC Charles A. Garland of the Executive Protective Service after being ordered to stop.  U.S. President Ford was at home at the time of the shooting at 9:35 at night, but was unaware of it until he was informed later.

July 26, 1976 (Monday)
In Los Angeles, Ronald Reagan announced his choice of liberal Republican U.S. Senator Richard Schweiker as his vice presidential running mate, in an effort to woo moderate Republican delegates away from front runner President Gerald Ford in advance of the Republican National Convention.

July 27, 1976 (Tuesday)
Former Japanese Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka was arrested and placed in a jail cell at the Tokyo House of Detention in Kosuge.  He had been charged with having accepted $1.67 million in bribes from the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation.  After three weeks in jail, Tanaka was able to post a bond of ¥200 million Japanese yen (equivalent at the time to $690,000 U.S. dollars) on August 17 to obtain his release while waiting for his trial, which would not take place until 1983.
The United Kingdom broke diplomatic relations with Uganda following the hijacking of Air France Flight 139 and the murder of one of its hostages.  The decision "was the first time Britain had severed relations with a Commonwealth nation".
Delegates who had attended an American Legion convention at The Bellevue-Stratford Hotel in Philadelphia began dying from a form of pneumonia that would eventually be recognized as the first outbreak of Legionnaires' disease.  Retired U.S. Air Force Captain Ray Brennan, a 61-year-old veteran who had returned from the convention to his home in Sayre, Pennsylvania on July 24 feeling tired, was the first fatality. Within four days after the convention ended, 11 Legionnaires in Pennsylvania had died from respiratory problems, and the adjutant of the Pennsylvania organization said "They all had one thing in common, they were all at the Philadelphia convention between July 21 and 24."  In all, 29 people died from the illness.  The national convention had been held over four days from July 21 to July 24.  The Bellevue-Stratford, at one time the finest hotel in Philadelphia, would announce on November 10 that it would be closing permanently.
The United States men's basketball team won the Olympic gold medal, defeating Yugoslavia, 95 to 74. The Soviet team, which had won the 1972 gold medal in a controversial game, had been defeated by Yugoslavia the day before in the semifinal, 89 to 84, preventing the expected and long-awaited rematch between the U.S. and U.S.S.R. teams.
Soviet chess grandmaster Viktor Korchnoi defected to the West while in Amsterdam, where he received political asylum from the Netherlands government.  Korchnoi had competed in a tournament while in the Dutch capital and was scheduled to fly to Frankfurt in West Germany and then to return to the Soviet Union.
English rock musician John Lennon, formerly of The Beatles, was granted permission by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to become a permanent resident alien of the United States.  INS Judge Ira Fieldsteel, who had rejected a previous resident-alien application in 1973 because of Lennon's 1968 conviction on cannabis possession, reviewed affidavits from a number of celebrities and noted that the federal government had dropped objections, and granted Lennon green card number A17-597-321.  A commentator for The New York Times summed up the event with the words, "Yesterday, all of John Lennon's troubles seemed so far away and now it looks as though he's here to stay."

July 28, 1976 (Wednesday)