[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 109]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

others of that set. You will like her, I am sure. She is
one of the truly good people of this world. If you really are going to
Paris, I shall feel happier if I know that Madame Vauchelet is your
friend."

Sophia's successor announced that the pony-cart was at the door.

Miss Du Prel looked rather anxiously at Hadria and her sister-in-law, as
they stood on the steps to bid her good-bye. There was a look of elation
mixed with devilry, in Hadria's face. The two figures turned and
entered the house together, as the pony-cart passed through the gate.

Hadria always gave Miss Temperley much opportunity for the employment of
tact, finding this tact more elucidating than otherwise to the designs
that it was intended to conceal; it affected them in the manner of a
magnifying-glass. About a couple of years ago, the death of her mother
had thrown Henriette on her own resources, and set free a large amount
of energy that craved a legitimate outlet. The family with whom she was
now living in London, not being related to her, offered but limited
opportunities.

Henriette's eye was fixed, with increasing fondness, upon the Red House.
_There_ lay the callow brood marked out by Nature and man, for her
ministrations. With infinite adroitness, Miss Temperley questioned her
sister-in-law, by inference and suggestion, about the affairs of the
household. Hadria evaded the attempt, but rejoiced, for reasons of her
own, that it was made. She began to find the occupation diverting, and
characteristically did not hesitate to allow her critic to form most
alarming conclusions as to the state of matters at the Red House. She
was pensive, and mild, and a little surprised when Miss Temperley, with
a suppressed gasp, urged that the question was deeply serious. It amused
Hadria to reproduce, for Henriette's benefit, the theories regarding the
treatment and training of children that she had found current among the
mothers of the district.

Madame Bertaux happened to call during the afternoon, and that outspoken
lady scoffed openly at these theories, declaring that women made idiots
of themselves on behalf of their children, whom they preposterously
ill-used with unflagging devotion.

"The moral training of young minds is such a problem," said Henriette,
after the visitor had left, "it must cause you many an anxious thought."

Hadria arranged herself comfortably among cushions, and let every muscle
relax.

"The boys are so young yet," she said drowsily. "I have no doubt that
will all come, later on."

"But, my dear Hadria, unless they are trained now----"

"Oh, there is plenty of time!"

"Do you mean to say----?"

"Only what other people say. Nothing in the least original, I assure
you. I see the folly and the inconvenience of that now. I have consulted
hoary experience. I have sat reverently at the feet of old nurses. I
have talked with mothers in the spirit of a disciple, and I have learnt,
oh, so much!"

"Mothers are most anxious about the moral training of their little
ones," said Henriette, in some bewilderment.

"Of course, but they don't worry about it so early. One can't expect
accomplished morality from poor little dots of five and six. The charm
of infancy would be gone."

Miss Temperley explained, remonstrated. Hadria was limp, docile,
unemphatic. Perhaps Henriette was right, she didn't know. A sense of
honour? (Hadria suppressed a smile.) Could one, after all, expect of six
what one did not always get at six and twenty? Morals altogether seemed
a good deal to ask of irresponsible youth. Henriette could not overrate
the importance of early familiarity with the difference between right
and wrong. Certainly it was important, but Hadria shrank from an extreme
view. One must not rush into it without careful thought.

"But meanwhile the children are growing up!" cried Henriette, in
despair.

Hadria had not found that experienced mothers laid much stress on that
fact. Besides, there was considerable difficulty in the matter.
Henriette did not see it. The difference between right and wrong could
easily be taught to a child.

Perhaps so, but it seemed to be thought expedient to defer the lesson
till the distant future; at least, if one might judge from the
literature especially designed for growing minds, wherein clever
villainy was exalted, and deeds of ferocious cruelty and revenge
occurred as a daily commonplace among heroes. The same policy was
indicated by the practice of allowing children to become familiar with
the sight of slaughter, and of violence of every kind towards animals,
from earliest infancy. Hadria concluded from all this, that it was
thought wise to postpone the moral training of the young till a more
convenient season.

Henriette looked at her sister-in-law, with a sad and baffled mien.
Hadria's expression was solemn, and as much like that of Mrs. Walker as
she could make it, without descending to obvious caricature.