[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of Roman external wars and battles

– Attila and his forces successfully capture and sack Padua.
 452 – Siege of Mediolanum – Attila and his forces capture Milan and destroy the city.
 452, 18 July –Sack of Aquileia – Aquileia is razed by the forces of Attila.
 455
 Sack of Rome by Geiseric, King of the Vandals
 Battle of Aylesford – Romano-Britons (under Vortimer) and Anglo-Saxons battle in Kent, victory is unclear.
 456
 Battle of Agrigentum (456) – An army of the Western Roman Empire, led by the Romano-Suebian general Ricimer, drove off an invading fleet sent by the Vandal king Gaiseric to raid Sicily.
 Battle of Corsica – the Vandals were attacked by Ricimer and defeated.
 457
 Battle of Garigliano (457) – The Western Roman Emperor Majorian surprised a Vandal-Berber raiding party which was returning with loot from Campania.
Battle of Campi Cannini – Western Roman Emperor Majorian defeated an Alemanni invasion of Italy.
 458
 Battle of Toulouse (458) – The Western Roman Emperor Majorian defeated the Visigoths.
 Battle of Arelate – The Western Roman Emperor Majorian, with the support of Aegidius and Nepotianus, defeated the Visigoths at Arlate. With a treaty, the Visigothic returned all territory in Hispania to the Romans.
 461 – Battle of Cartagena – A Vandal fleet surprised and destroyed the Roman fleet.
 463 – Battle of Orleans – Gallo-Roman and Salian Frank forces under the command of Aegidius defeated a force of Visigoths at Orleans.
 464 – Battle of Bergamo – Romans under General Ricimer defeated Alan invasion of Italy and killed their king.
 468 – Battle of Cap Bon - Failure of the invasion of the kingdom of the Vandals by the Western and Eastern Roman Empires. 
 469 – Battle of Déols - Visigoths defeated Bretons and Gallo-Romans under Riothamus.
 471 – Battle of Arles - Visigothic king Euric defeated the Roman general Anthemiolus, captured Arles and much of southern Gaul
 472 – Siege of Rome - Ricimer, having fallen out with his choice for Roman Emperor, allied with the Burgundians and Germans under Odoacer, defeated and killed the Western Roman Emperor Anthemius.
 475 – Battle of Ravenna – Orestes deposes Julius Nepos and installs his son, Romulus Augustulus as emperor.
 476
 Battle of Pavia – Odoacer captures and executes Orestes.
 Battle of Ravenna – The Germanic foederati led by Odoacer decisively defeated the Western Roman Empire and deposed Emperor Romulus Augustulus. Western Roman Empire dissolved. Odoacer declared himself King of Italy.
 486 – Battle of Soissons – Clovis I defeated Syagrius, last Roman commander in Gaul, and annexed the Western Roman rump state known as the Kingdom of Soissons into Francia.

6th century and beyond

See also
 List of Roman civil wars and revolts

References

Sources

External links 

 Milites. A Visual Analytics tool on Roman battles.
 Elton, Hugh and Christos Nüssli, "Imperial Battle Map Index". An Online Encyclopedia of Roman Emperors.
 "Roman Battles" map, platial.com

Rome
Wars involving ancient Rome
Roman
 
Roman battles
Wars and battles