[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Salleh Abas

e from countries not noted for judicial independence. Salleh demanded to be tried by peers of equal standing – retired Lord presidents if need be. He also demanded that the tribunal make its hearings public. All of these claims were rejected by the tribunal, and Salleh withdrew from the proceedings.

Instead, Salleh asked the Supreme Court to stay the proceedings because of the tribunal's alleged improper constitution and because the King had been "wrongfully advised". The Supreme Court, in an emergency session, unanimously ruled that the proceedings stay. Four days later, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong suspended the five Supreme Court judges who had issued the order, on Mahathir's advice. The government announced that it would attempt to impeach those five judges as well for "gross misbehaviour" and conspiring "to make the order". This reduced the number of judges on the Supreme Court to four, with two of them also sitting on the tribunal. The government-appointed new judges to fill the void, who refused to hear any further motions by Salleh Abas. The tribunal eventually found Salleh guilty, and he was officially relieved of his position. Of the five judges who had supported him, two were convicted, and the other three were acquitted.

Post-conviction and politics involvement
Soon after his dismissal in 1988, Salleh was conferred the "Darjah Pahlawan Yang Amat Gagah Perkasa (P.Y.G.P.)", by the Sultan of Kelantan.

Salleh contested the 1995 general election for the Lembah Pantai parliamentary constituency (an area in Kuala Lumpur which includes the neighbourhood of Bangsar) under the Parti Melayu Semangat 46 (S46) ticket, and failed to be elected.

In the 1999 general election, Salleh was elected as Terengganu State Assemblyman for the constituency of Jertih on the ticket of Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS) which managed to form the new state government and had Salleh appointed as a Terengganu State Executive Councillor (EXCO). However he did not run again in the 2004 general election due to poor health.

Later developments
Mahathir Mohamad stepped down from the premiership in 2003 and chose Abdullah Ahmad Badawi to be his successor. In 2006, the relationship between the two became less than warm as Mahathir started to criticise the latter's policies. It was during this time when the first serious calls were made for a judicial review of the 1988 crisis. Among the loudest advocates of the review was Tun Salleh Abas himself. The administration however dismissed the calls. A minister in the Prime Minister's Department Nazri Aziz, who was then de facto Law Minister, said that he was not convinced of the need to review the case.

After the 2008 general election which saw heavy losses for BN, Abdullah reshuffled his Cabinet. Within days of his appointment, new de facto Law Minister Zaid Ibrahim stated that the government had to openly apologise for its handling of the crisis, calling it one of his three main goals: "In the eyes of the world, the judicial crisis has weakened our judiciary system." However, he rejected the idea of reviewing the decision: "I am not suggesting that we re-open the case. I am saying that it’s clear to everyone, to the world, that serious transgressions had been committed by the previous administration. And I believe that the prime minister is big enough and man enough to say that we had done wrong to these people and we are sorry."

The Bar Council welcomed the proposal. Newly appointed Domestic Trade and Consumer Affairs Minister Shahrir Abdul Samad also voiced support: "The Government has apologised for so many other things to the people, such as the untimely destruction of temples and other issues. So, why not an apology to a former Lord President?"

Death 
During the COVID-19 pandemic in Malaysia, on 14 January 2021, Salleh had tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Sultanah Nur Zahirah Hospital in Kuala Terengganu.

Salleh died from COVID-19-complicated pneumonia at 3.20 a.m. three days later, at the age of 91. He was laid to rest beside the grave of his first wife Toh Puan Azimah Mohd Ali at the Sheikh Ibrahim Muslim Cemetery in Jalan Pusara, Kuala Terengganu.

Election results

Honours

Honours of Malaysia
  : 
  Companion of the Order of the Defender of the Realm (JMN) (1966)
  Commander of the Order of Loyalty to the Crown of Malaysia (PSM) – Tan Sri (1971)
  Commander of the Order of the Defender of the Realm (PMN) – Tan Sri (1983)
  Grand Commander of the Order of Loyalty to the Crown of Malaysia (SSM) – Tun (1985)
  :
  Recipient of the Order of the Most Distinguished and Most Valiant Warrior (PYGP) (1988)
  :
  Companion of the Order of the Crown of Terengganu (SMT) (1963)
  Knight Commander of the Order of the Crown of Terengganu (DPMT) – Dato' (1968)
  Knight Grand Commander of the Order of the Crown of Terengganu (SPMT) – Dato' (1983)

See also
 List of deaths due to COVID-19 - notable individual deaths

Notes and references