[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# No. 1 Radio School RAF

e 3 training - Lecturers deliver CISCO Network theory and practical training via CISCOs NetAcad platform and through the use of physical equipment as well as Information administration and management training.  These courses ensure students are fully prepared for front-line operational environments.

*Training Management Support Squadron (TMSS) is split into 4 flights and 1 school:
 Trainee Management Flight (TMF) - Hold responsibility for the discipline, welfare, care and management of all students within No 1 Radio School, whether phase 2 or 3. Engineering Support Flight (ESF) - Manage the provision, delivery and installation of all engineering requirements within the School, from mobile and fixed IT infrastructure and equipment to Radar systems used in the delivery of training.Business Development Flight (BDF) - Collate, coordinate and deliver on business cases throughout No 1 Radio School, providing new and upgraded equipment and infrastructure in support of training. Support Flight (Spt Flt) - Provides administrative support to all No 1 Radio School personnel and students. Aerial Erector School (AES) - Provides specialist Working at Height (WaH) and cable infrastructure training for Defence.Cyberspace Communications SpecialistsThe purpose of Cyberspace Communications Specialist training is to:

 Train Cyberspace Communication Specialists to meet the RAF's requirement for Cyber, communication, computers, information networks, sensors and detection systems, in order to undertake air operations.

Students undertake a 34-week specialist training course at No. 1 Radio School, RAF Cosford. This course prepares the students for their first tour at an operational unit, giving them skills and experiences ranging from Radio Principles to Network Administration and Cyber Security.Communication Infrastructure Technician (CIT)The purpose of CIT training is to:
	
 Provide specialist Working at Height (WaH) and cable infrastructure training. Students undertake a 26-week specialist training course at RAF Digby.Engineering Officer Further Training (Communications Electronics) (EOFT (CE))'''

The purpose of EOFT (CE) is to:

 Prepare newly commissioned Junior Officers for their foundation tours as cyberspace engineers and information specialists. 
Upon completion of Initial Officer Training at RAFC Cranwell, students complete a 26-week training course that prepares newly commissioned junior officers for, and provides them with the skills necessary to undertake, the many varied first tours that an Eng (CE) officer might undertake.  The key theme throughout the course, which is split over three terms, is to embed an appreciation of how technology is a key enabler of operations.  Term 1 of the course provides an introduction to communications doctrine, communications organisations within Defence and the responsibilities of an Eng (CE) officer, as well as an academic module looking at RADAR and telecommunications principles.  Term 2 builds on the application of those modules taught during Phase 1, and introduces the officers to cyberspace and information services, systems and applications.  The final term of the course consolidates the earlier taught modules and culminates in a scenario-based final exercise that simulates and assesses the officers in the type of environment that they could expect to find themselves in their first tour as Eng (CE) officers.
      
In order to enhance their learning and to continue their development, the officers undertake a number of visits to RAF stations and joint organisations, such as RAF Waddington, Air Command, and the Permanent Joint Headquarters, and undertake an adventurous training and force development package.

Qualifications

No. 1 Radio School is a Cisco accredited academy, with the training that the students receive being recognised by a wide range of civilian employers and backed by transferable qualifications.

Students completing the Defence Cyber Protect training also achieve the CompTIA Security+ (S+) and Cyber Security Analyst (CySA+) qualifications

References

Vocational education in the United Kingdom
Radio School
School Radio 01