[Source: PubMed]

21. Gesundheitswesen. 2015 Dec;77(12):949-57. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1548805. Epub
2015  Apr 28.

[Minimum Standards for the Spatial Accessibility of Primary Care: A Systematic 
Review].

[Article in German]

Voigtländer S(1), Deiters T(1).

Author information:
(1)Sachgebiet GE 6 "Versorgungsqualität, Gesundheitsökonomie, 
Gesundheitssystemanalyse", Bayerisches Landesamt für Gesundheit und 
Lebensmittelsicherheit, Nürnberg.

BACKGROUND: Regional disparities of access to primary care are substantial in 
Germany, especially in terms of spatial accessibility. However, there is no 
legally or generally binding minimum standard for the spatial accessibility 
effort that is still acceptable. Our objective is to analyse existing minimum 
standards, the methods used as well as their empirical basis.
METHODS: A systematic literature review was undertaken of publications regarding 
minimum standards for the spatial accessibility of primary care based on a title 
word and keyword search using PubMed, SSCI/Web of Science, EMBASE and Cochrane 
Library.
RESULTS: 8 minimum standards from the USA, Germany and Austria could be 
identified. All of them specify the acceptable spatial accessibility effort in 
terms of travel time; almost half include also distance(s). The travel time 
maximum, which is acceptable, is 30 min and it tends to be lower in urban areas. 
Primary care is, according to the identified minimum standards, part of the 
local area (Nahbereich) of so-called central places (Zentrale Orte) providing 
basic goods and services. The consideration of means of transport, e. g. public 
transport, is heterogeneous. The standards are based on empirical studies, 
consultation with service providers, practical experiences, and regional 
planning/central place theory as well as on legal or political regulations.
CONCLUSIONS: The identified minimum standards provide important insights into 
the effort that is still acceptable regarding spatial accessibility, i. e. 
travel time, distance and means of transport. It seems reasonable to complement 
the current planning system for outpatient care, which is based on 
provider-to-population ratios, by a gravity-model method to identify places as 
well as populations with insufficient spatial accessibility. Due to a lack of a 
common minimum standard we propose - subject to further discussion - to begin 
with a threshold based on the spatial accessibility limit of the local area, 
i. e. 30 min to the next primary care provider for at least 90% of the regional 
population. The exceeding of the threshold would necessitate a discussion of a 
health care deficit and in line with this a potential need for intervention, 
e. g. in terms of alternative forms of health care provision.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1548805
PMID: 25918932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]