[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Korea University (Japan)

is a university-level miscellaneous school located in Kodaira, Tokyo. It was established by the North Korea-affiliated organization Chongryon on 10 April 1956. Korean is the medium of instruction.

Description 
It operates seven four-year faculties: political economy (including courses in philosophy under its rubric), literature, history and geography, management, foreign languages, science (physics, mathematics, and biochemistry) and technology (mechanical engineering, electronic engineering, and metallurgy). The school also runs two and three-year normal school programmes, as well as a two-year post-graduate school. This school offers a university level education, but based on the Japanese School Education Law, it is not authorized a “university” and consequently is treated as a "miscellaneous school.”

History 
The school was first established by Chongryon on 10 April 1956. When Chongryon first sought approval to establish the school, it faced backlash from both the Japanese right-wing and South Korea. North Korea has influenced the school's textbooks and curriculum since its establishment.

The school has received funding directly from the government of North Korea every year since 1956. Between 1956 and 1958, the North Korean government paid ¥321.6 million to purchase the real estate for the school and set up its curriculum. In 2002, it received ¥132.42 million in funding at the direction of then North Korean leader Kim Jong Il.

After graduation, most students either go on to work for Chongryon or become teachers at Chongryon-affiliated schools. , the school's rector is Chang Byong Tae, a graduate of Kyoto University and a former researcher in solid-state chemistry with the French National Centre for Scientific Research.

Korea University and other Chongryon-affiliated schools have recently experienced greater difficulty in recruiting new students. This has been attributed to Japan's overall preference towards South Korea since its economic boom in the late 1980s. Correspondingly, ethnic Koreans in Japan have also increasingly aligned themselves with the South.

Analysis 
Between 2018 and 2019, Cha Eun-jeong, a South Korean anthropologist from Seoul National University, was allowed to visit the school a number of times. When she first visited the school, she did so without prior notice, and was turned away with the explanation that they "do not officially accept guests from the Southern side". However, she was eventually allowed to visit after explaining her intention to help bridge North–South relations.

Cha estimated that the school had around 500 students that all lived in the school dormitories. She noted that the school strongly emphasized Korean national identity and community, and that teachers and students were all encouraged to develop strong personal and emotional relationships with each other.

While she noted that portraits of Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il were displayed prominently in the school, she described the overall attitude of the students towards the South as being conciliatory, if not even positive. She attributed this to two reasons: firstly, the students were fourth-to-fifth generation descendants of the original Korean settlers, and thus increasingly removed from the North–South conflict. In addition, she theorized that they were following the overall Japanese zeitgeist of increasing preference towards South Korea.

See also
 Chōsen gakkō – North Korean primary and secondary schools in Japan

Notes and references

Notes

References

External links
  
  
 

Universities and colleges established in 1956
Schools in Tokyo
Private schools in Japan
+
Japan–North Korea relations
Kodaira, Tokyo
1956 establishments in Japan