[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 186]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

qualities good Mr
Sandford might have, he did not excel in brevity, and therefore
endeavoured in still stronger terms to overcome the delicacy of the
farmer, and prevail upon him to accept his present.

But the good farmer pursued his point thus: "Thank you, thank you, my
dear sir, a thousand times for your goodwill; but, as to the money, I
must beg your pardon if I persist in refusing it. Formerly, sir, as I
was saying, we were all happy and healthy, and our affairs prospered,
because we never thought about the conveniences of life; now, I hear of
nothing else. One neighbour (for I will not mention names) brings his
son up to go a-shooting with gentlemen; another sends his to market upon
a blood-horse with a plated bridle; and then the girls--the girls; there
is fine work indeed!--they must have their hats and feathers and riding
habits; their heads as big as bushels, and even their hind-quarters
stuck out with cork or pasteboard; but scarcely one of them can milk a
cow, or churn, or bake, or do any one thing that is necessary in a
family; so that, unless the government will send them all to this new
settlement, which I have heard so much of, and bring us a cargo of
plain, honest housewives, who have never been at boarding-schools, I
cannot conceive how we farmers are to get wives."

Mr Merton laughed very heartily at this sally, and told him that he
would venture to assert it was not so at _his_ house. "Not quite so bad
indeed," said the farmer; "my wife was bred up under a notable mother,
and though she must have her tea every afternoon, is, in the main, a
very good sort of woman. She has brought her daughters up a little
better than usual, but I can assure you she and I have had many a good
argument on the subject. Not but she approves their milking, spinning,
and making themselves useful, but she would fain have them genteel,
Master Merton; all women now are mad after gentility; and, when once
_gentility_ begins, there is an end of _industry_. Now, were they to
hear of such a sum as you have generously offered, there would be no
peace in the house. My wenches instead of _Deb_ and _Kate_, would be
_Miss Deborah_ and _Miss Catherine_; in a little time they must be sent
to boarding-school to learn French and music, and wriggling about the
room; and when they come back, who must boil the pot, or make the
pudding, or sweep the house, or serve the pigs? Did you ever hear of
Miss Juliana, or Miss Harriet, or Miss Carolina, doing such vulgar
things?"

Mr Merton was very much struck with the honest farmer's method of
expressing himself, and could not help internally allowing the truth of
his representations; yet he still pressed him to accept his present, and
reminded him of the improvement of his farm.

"Thank you, again and again," replied the farmer; "but the whole
generation of the Sandfords have been brought up to labour with their
own hands for these hundred years; and during all that time there has
not been a dishonest person, a gentleman, or a madman amongst us. And
shall I be the first to break the customs of the family, and perhaps
bring down a curse on all our heads? What could I have more if I were a
lord or a macaroni, as I think you call them? I have plenty of victuals
and work, good firing, clothes, warm house, a little for the poor, and,
between you and I, something perhaps in a corner to set my children off
with if they behave well. Ah! neighbour, neighbour, if you did but know
the pleasure of holding plough after a good team of horses, and then
going tired to bed, perhaps you'd wish to have been brought up a farmer
too. But, in one word, as well as a thousand, I shall never forget the
extraordinary kindness of your offer; but if you would not ruin a whole
family of innocent people that love you, e'en consent to leave us as we
are."

Mr Merton then seeing the fixed determination of the farmer, and feeling
the justice of his coarse but strong morality, was obliged, however
reluctantly, to desist; and Mrs Sandford coming to invite them to
dinner, he entered the house, and paid his respects to the family.

After the cloth was removed, and Mr Sandford had twice or thrice
replenished his silver mug, the only piece of finery in his house,
little Harry came running in, with so much alacrity and heedlessness
that he tore Miss Deborah's best apron, and he had nearly precipitated
Miss Catherine's new cap into the fire, for which the young ladies and
his mother rebuked him with some acrimony. But Harry, after begging
pardon with his usual good-humour, cried, "Father, father, here is the
prettiest team of horses, all matched, and of a colour, with new
harness, the most complete I ever saw in my life; and they have stopped
at our back-door, and the man says they are brought for you!" Farmer
Sandford was just then in the middle of his history of the
ploughing-match at Axminster; but the relation of his son had such an
involuntary