[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lupe Fiasco's Food & Liquor

on his MySpace profile, where fans were able to vote for which song they wanted to be made into a music video.

Track listing

Note(s)
"The woman who recites the poem on the introduction is Ayesha Jaco, Lupe's sister. The same woman is also responsible for the poem in the introduction to "The Cool."

Sample credits
"Real" contains a sample of "How Does It Feel" by Harvey Mason
"Just Might Be O.K." contains a sample of "Humphrey's Overture" written by Paul Humphrey.
"Kick, Push" contains a sample of "Magtaksil Man Ikaw (Bolero Medley)" by Celeste Legaspi.
"The Instrumental" contains a sample of "Nestle" by Far.
"He Say, She Say" contains a sample of "The Last One to Be Loved" by Burt Bacharach and "Mesopotamia" by The B-52's.
"Sunshine" contains a sample of "Friend to Friend" by Diana Ross.
"Daydreamin'" contains a sample of "Daydream" by I Monster.
"The Cool" contains a sample of "Life on Mars" by Dexter Wansel and Funky Drummer" by James Brown.
"Hurt Me Soul" contains a sample of "Stay with Me" by Cecil Holmes.
"Pressure" contains a sample of "Pressure Cooker" by Thelma Houston.
"American Terrorist" contains a sample of "The Romantic Warrior" by Return to Forever.
"The Emperor's Soundtrack" contains a sample of "Between the Walls" by UFO.
"Theme Music to a Drive-By" contains a sample of "(Do It, Do It) No One Does It Better" by The Spinners.
"Carrera Lu"  contains a sample of "Bad Tune" by Earth, Wind & Fire.

Personnel
As listed on Allmusic.

 Mireya Acierto – photography
 Chuck Anderson – cover art
 James Auwarter – mixing, mixing assistant
 Craig Bauer – mixing
 Jeff Breakley – mixing assistant
 Chill – executive producer, management
 Andrew Coleman – engineer
 Bojan Dugich – engineer, mixing
 Lupe Fiasco – executive producer
 Patrick Fong – design
 Brian Gartner – vocal engineer
 Chris Gehringer – mastering
 Sarah Green – performer
 Brandon Howard – producer
 I Monster – producer
 Jay-Z – executive producer
 Chris Jennings – assistant engineer

 Darrale Jones – executive producer
 Craig Kallman – producer
 Greg Magers – engineer
 Jonah Matranga – performer
 The Neptunes – producer
 Ryan Neuschafer – mixing assistant
 Prolyfic – producer
 Will Quinell – mastering assistant
 Righteous Kung Fu – creative director, cover art
 Jason Salvador – management
 Matthew Santos – performer
 Mike Shinoda – producer
 Soundtrakk – producer
 Reed "Mountain Man" Taylor – assistant engineer
 Patrick Viala – mixing
 Kanye West – producer, consultant

Charts

Weekly charts

Year-end charts

Certifications

Notes

References

External links
 Lupe Fiasco's Food & Liquor at Metacritic
 

2006 debut albums
Atlantic Records albums
Albums produced by Mike Shinoda
Albums produced by Jay-Z
Albums produced by Kanye West
Albums produced by Lupe Fiasco
Albums produced by the Neptunes
Albums produced by Needlz
Lupe Fiasco albums