[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tropical Storm Chris (1988)

r a tropical storm warning. They were later discontinued at an unknown time. Residents of Charleston, South Carolina, complained of little warning in advance of the storm. However, as Chris moved ashore only nine hours after becoming a tropical storm, there was minimal time for preparations.

Impact

Lesser and Greater Antilles
In the United States Virgin Islands, the depression dropped  of rain. Precipitation on the island of Puerto Rico was generally between , with a peak total of  in Hacienda Constanza. Heavy rainfall resulting in flooding, which damaged at least 100 homes and left 485 people homeless. By August 24, at least 15 people evacuated their homes because of flooding.
Due to high winds, two cars were crushed by falling trees, causing the deaths of two men and one 12-year-old boy. Hispaniola received heavy rain and  winds but no deaths or damage was reported. In the Bahamas, the storm brought winds of  but left no damage.

United States

The outer bands of Chris produced  of rain in Florida, though no damage was reported.
At Fort Pulaski National Monument in Georgia, tides were  above normal. In that state, Chris produced a sustained wind speed of  at Savannah Light, though it was at an elevation of . In addition, the highest wind gust was reported at that location, reaching up to . Elsewhere in Georgia, winds were light and were below tropical storm force. Rainfall in the state was mostly less than , with a peak of  in southeastern Georgia.

Along the coast of South Carolina, tides of at least  above normal were reported at Charleston and Myrtle Beach, respectively. However, the Preliminary Report on Tropical Storm Chris indicates tides of  at Charleston and  above normal at Myrtle Beach. Several tornadoes were spawned in the state, one of which caused one fatality, one injury, and destroyed at least 15 mobile homes in Clarendon County. Overall, tornadoes in the state collectively resulted in more than $550,000 in damage (1988 USD). Debris littered U.S. Route 301, which briefly shutdown that highway. Winds were relatively light in the state, with sustained winds generally less than  and gusts to  were reported in Charleston. However, 18,000 people in Charleston and other nearby communities lost electricity. In addition, one mobile home was destroyed and another was overturned in Olanta. Rainfall in South Carolina was generally between , though peaking at  in Bishopville. Near Columbia,  of rain fell in only an hour, leaving standing water on several roads, including Interstate 26.

In North Carolina, a tornado spawned in Iredell County threw a tractor-trailer into a building at an industrial park. The tornado also struck the Iredell Container Corp. building and damaged several nearby mobile homes. As a result, numerous residents of Iredell County were left without gas or electricity. Four houses and a produce stand were destroyed by another tornado along U.S. Route 401 in Cumberland County. A third tornado in Granville County caused one injury and light damage. Collectively, the three tornadoes in the state caused at least $1 million (1988 USD) in damage. In Charlotte, a wind gust of  was reported, which downed power lines and damaged the facade of a hotel.

In Mecklenburg County, Virginia, an F2 tornado spawned near Chase City damaged or destroyed ten buildings, including a mobile home, which was wrapped completely around a tree. Additionally, several vehicles were damaged and one injury occurred. Damage from that tornado reached about $700,000 (1988 USD). Winds in Washington D.C. reached slightly more than , leaving 3,800 homes without electricity. In Maryland, rainfall was less than  at all locations. A wind gust reaching  was reported in Baltimore, though sustained winds were below tropical storm force. Similar amounts of rainfall occurred in other nearby states such as Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania; minor creek flooding occurred in those three states. In Wilmington, Delaware, a wind gust of  was reported. Power lines were snapped in Essex County, New Jersey.