[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mimino

s shot in two stages—a papier-mache dummy of a cow was used with the helicopter for the far off shots, and a live cow was lifted by a crane was used for the close-ups.  He notes that the cow was only hung at a low height, but high enough to use the blue sky as a backdrop, and the cow was not hurt.  Petritskiy did not consider the scene to be difficult, pointing out that the winter scenes were much harder.  He details the harsh living conditions in the village of Darklo where they stayed.  He describes how few locals stay during the winter, and how the living quarters were not guarded or locked, but housed a few shepherds who had stayed back for the winter.  He explains how there were "sleep-benches" within the houses, and how they lived on canned preserves during their stay, sharing their "feast" with the hungry shepherds there.  In conclusion, Petritskiy notes how he "got a very pleasant impression from the work on that film," noting that it was shown at the Moscow International Film Festival and won the top prize there.

Awards
1977 – Golden Prize at the 10th Moscow International Film Festival
1978 – "Golden Lacheno" Award at the 19th IFF in Avellino (Italy)
1978 – Best Comedy Film Award at the 11th All-Union Film Festival in Yerevan
1978 – USSR State Prize (Director G. Daneliya, Actors V. Kikabidze, F. Mkrtchyan)

References

External links

Mimino full-length on YouTube (includes English subtitles)
Monument to “Mimino” Heroes to Be Erected in Moscow

1977 films
1977 comedy films
1977 multilingual films
Mosfilm films
Comedy films from Georgia (country)
1970s Russian-language films
Georgian-language films
Films directed by Georgiy Daneliya
Russian aviation films
Soviet-era films from Georgia (country)
Georgian words and phrases
Soviet multilingual films
Soviet comedy films
Films set in Berlin
Films set in Georgia (country)
Films set in Moscow
Films set in the Soviet Union
Films shot in Georgia (country)
Films shot in Berlin
Films shot in Moscow
Russian comedy films
Films about aviators
Courtroom films
Multilingual films from Georgia (country)