[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jan Smit (singer)

presenter for TROS pocket and his new album were put on hold. The tour Jasn Smit komt naar je toe (Jan Smit comes to you) was also rescheduled.

After eight months out of the public eye, Smit made his comeback at the Museumpleinconcert (Museum Square Concert) on Koninginnedag (Queen's Day) in 2008.

2008–2015: The Bombardment and 15th anniversary
On 14 July 2008 Smit released his single Stilte in de Storm (Silence in the storm) which entered the Single Top 100 at the top spot. It was his seventh number-one song. In the fall of 2008 he was featured in a new season of Jan Smit, de Zomer Voorbij (Jan Smit, After the Summer), and was chosen as team captain in the program Te Leuk Om Waar Te Zijn (Too cute to be Real). On 8 November 2008, Als je Lacht (When you smile) was released and became his 8th number 1 hit in the Netherlands was. On 28 February 2009 his 9th number 1 hit was Je Naar in de Sterren (Your name in starlight).

Although Smit's popularity kept growing in The Netherlands, his popularity in Germany waned. Smit blamed this on the fact that the German audience prefers true Schlager music or pop music, while Smit's style is something in between, which the Germans were not keen on. In the meantime, Smith stopped presenting television programs. In July 2009 he released a duet with Surinamese singer Damaru (singer) titled Mi Rowsu (Tuintje in mijn hart), released to benefit SOS Children's Villages. The song reached the number one spot in both The Netherlands as well as Suriname.

On 3 September 2009 Smit presented for the TROS the first episode of the program Ik Weet Wat Jij Deed (I know what you did). In addition, the third season of Jan Smit, de Zomer Voorbij (Jan Smit, After the Summer) premiered on 20 September 2009. This time the series was shot in Italy. Smit's next single Leef Nu Het Kan (Live while you can) entered the Single Top 100 at the number one spot on 6 March 2010. After The Beatles and Marco Borsato, Smit is the artist that has been the longest at number 1 in The Netherlands in the history of the weekly charts (1960–present). In April 2010, Smit was elected to be the Dutch mascot for Amarula. Smit's single Terug in de Tijd (Back in the Days) of his album Leef (Live) entered the charts on 19 June 2010 and reached the second position a week later, its highest position. His next song, Zie Wel Hoe Ik Thuis Kom (I will figure out how to get home) reached number one on 25 September 2010 in the Dutch Single Top 100. On 15 January 2011 his song Niemand Zo Trots Als Wij (No one as proud as we are) entered the charts at number one. On 30 September 2011 Smit released Hou Je Dan Nog Steeds Van Mijn (Do you still love me) and a month later the collection 15 Jaar Hits (15 years of hits). The single again reached the highest position in the Top 100 after just one week. During the RTL-4 program Koffietijd Smit received a gold record for selling 10,000 copies. Eddy Veerman released a biography, titled Het Geheim van de Smit (The Secret of Smit).

From 2011, he and Cornald Maas commentator for the Eurovision Song Contest on behalf of the AVROTROS.

In 2012 Jan Smit celebrated his 15th anniversary of being in show business. In August, he released the album Vrienden (Friends), which was awarded a platinum record. Smit also had three number one hits in 2012: 1. Echte Vrienden (True Friends), a duet with Gerard Joling, 2. the song Altijd Naar (Always There) and 3. Sla Je Armen Om Me Heen (Wrap your arms around me), a duet with Roos van Erkel. As part of the anniversary celebration Smit performed five concerts in Rotterdam Ahoy, with guest appearances by Gerard Joling, Yes-R, Carola Smit and Damaru. In 2012 a biography was published chronicling Jan Smit's life. Towards the end of 2012 he starred in the film Het Bombardement (The Bombardment). On the day the film was released both critics and audiences panned the movie, but it was noted that Smits acting debut "was the least of the problems of the whole movie". However, since more than one hundred thousand people went to see the film in the cinema it still managed to be awarded with a golden film status.

Since 2012 Smit has been the presenter of De Beste Zangers van Nederland (The Best Singers of The Netherlands). Each episode features a central singer, whom selects songs for other participants to sing. The featured singers does not perform themselves, but instead judges the other singers. On 4 June 2016 there was a special edition of the program, the featured guest was not one of the singers, but Smit himself. This episode was a tribute to Jan Smit because he was celebrating his 20 year anniversary of being in show business. In 2012 Smit launched the record label Vosound Records together with Jaap Buijs. Other artists on the label are Smit's sister Monique Smit, Tim Douwsma and Gerard Joling. Additionally in 2012 Smit was awarded the TrosKompas Oeuvre Award.