[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University of Shizuoka

school system) 

Shizuoka Prefectual College of Pharmacy was upgraded from a specialized school to a , and  was established in 1953. On the other hand  was a new  founded by Shizuoka Prefectual Government in 1951. In addition,  was a new university founded by Shizuoka Prefectual Government in 1967.

In 1987, Shizuoka College of Pharmacy, Shizuoka Women's University and Shizuoka Women's College were merged to form the University of Shizuoka. In 2000, Hamamatsu Campus of the University of Shizuoka became independent as . On April 1, 2007, Shizuoka Prefectural University Corporation was established by Shizuoka Prefectural Government. Until March 31, 2007, the University of Shizuoka had been administered by Shizuoka Prefectural Government, but since April 1, 2007, it has been administered by Shizuoka Prefectural University Corporation. In 2012, the University of Shizuoka absorbed research functions of . On December 10, 2018, Tasuku Honjo, Advisor to Shizuoka Prefectural University Corporation, received a medal and certificate for Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.

Organization

Under graduate 

 School of Pharmaceutical Sciences
 Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences
 Division of Pharmacy
 School of Food and Nutritional Sciences
 Department of Food Science and Biotechnology
 Department of Nutrition and Life Sciences
 Department of Environmental and Life Sciences
 School of International Relations
 Department of International Relations
 Department of International Languages and Cultures
 School of Management and Information
 Department of Management and Information
 School of Nursing
 Department of Nursing

Graduate 

 Graduate School of Integrated Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Sciences
 Graduate Program in Pharmacy
 Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences
 Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Sciences
 Graduate Program in Food and Nutritional Sciences
 Graduate Program in Environmental Health Sciences
 Graduate Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences
 Graduate Division of Nutritional and Environmental Sciences
 Graduate School of International Relations
 Division of International Relations
 Division of Comparative Culture
 Graduate School of Management and Information of Innovation
 Division of Management and Information of Innovation
 Graduate School of Nursing
 Division of Nursing

Library 
 University Library

Research institute 

 Health Support Center
 Information Technology Center
 Language and Communication Research Center
 Center for Promotion of Gender Equality
 Global Center for Asian and Regional Research
 Fuji-no-Kuni Center for Future Education
 Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences
 Medicinal Plant Garden, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences
 Center for Nursing Professional Development, School of Nursing
 Center for Drug Discovery, Graduate Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences
 Center for Pharma-Food Research, Graduate Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences
 Food and Environment Research Center, Graduate Division of Nutritional and Environmental Sciences
 Tea Science Center, Graduate Division of Nutritional and Environmental Sciences
 Center for Korean Studies, Graduate School of International Relations
 Wider Europe Research Center, Graduate School of International Relations
 Center for Global Studies, Graduate School of International Relations
 Center for Regional Management Studies, Graduate School of Management and Information of Innovation
 Center for Health Services Management Studies, Graduate School of Management and Information of Innovation
 Research Center for ICT Innovation, Graduate School of Management and Information of Innovation
 Tourism Research Center, Graduate School of Management and Information of Innovation

Administration Offices 
 Management Strategy Department
 General Affairs Department
 Education Research Promotion Department
 Student Affairs Department

Junior college 
 Department of Dental Hygiene
 Department of Social Welfare
 Division of Social Welfare
 Division of Care Welfare
 Department of Child Studies

Chronology 

 1916 - Shizuoka Women's School of Pharmacy was founded.
 1945 - Reorganized into Shizuoka Women's College of Pharmacy.
 1950 - Reorganized into Shizuoka College of Pharmacy.
 1951 - Shizuoka Women's College was founded.
 1952 - Reorganized into Shizuoka Prefectual College of Pharmacy.
 1953 - Reorganized into Shizuoka College of Pharmacy.
 1967 - Shizuoka Women's University was founded.
 1987 - University of Shizuoka was founded.

Chart

Chairmen of the board of directors

Presidents

Notable alumni and faculty members

See also 
 Shizuoka University – a national university in Shizuoka City, Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan

References

Notes

Sources

External links
静岡県公立大学法人 静岡県立大学 – Japanese Website.
UNIVERSITY OF SHIZUOKA – English Website.

University
University
Public universities in Japan
Universities and colleges established in 1987
1987 establishments in Japan