[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Canadian Arab Federation

when it expires March 31, 2010, although a final decision on this has not been made. Stewart's letter included a statement from Kenney justifying the decision to halt funding. Kenney wrote that the decision not based solely on Mouammar's description of him as a "professional whore" but rather that:

Serious concerns have arisen with respect to certain public statements that have been made by yourself or other officials of the CAF. These statements have included the promotion of hatred, anti-Semitism and support for the banned terrorist organizations Hamas and Hezbollah. The objectionable nature of these public statements in that they appear to reflect the CAF's evident support for terrorist organizations and positions on its part which are arguably anti-Semitic raises serious questions about the integrity of your organization and has undermined the government's confidence in the CAF as an appropriate partner for the delivery of settlement services to newcomers.

In late March 2009, the CAF announced that it is filing a court challenge against Kenney over his decision to revoke the CAF's federal funding. The CAF court documents stated that Kenney's decision erred in law by breaching an agreement to fund the language programs and also breached the principle of fairness. The CAF is asking the Court to quash the decision and, in the interim, for an injunction to keep the funding coming while the case is heard. The federation being represented by Toronto lawyers Barbara Jackman and Hadayt Nazami

In a later interview, CAF executive director Mohamed Boudjenane stated that Mouammar's comment was misconstrued, explaining that:

A political whore, in the Oxford dictionary, is someone who is willing to sell his political principles for gain. It has nothing to do with the derogatory term.

Court ruling on denial of funding
In January 2014, Federal Court Justice Russel Zinn upheld the government's decision to halt funding to the CAF. In denying the CAF's challenge to the Government's decision, Zinn wrote that 

All of the statements and actions raised by the Minister can, in my view, reasonably lead one to the view that CAF appears to support organizations that Canada has declared to be terrorist organizations and which are arguably anti-Semitic." The government had cited six incidents to support its claims against the CAF; although the CAF insisted that none of these incidents had been authorized or approved by the organization, Zinn ruled that "this defense ignores the maxim that ‘one is known by the company one keeps. 

Zinn also wrote that "the CAF cannot completely disassociate itself from the content of web links it includes in its materials, or from comments, distribution of materials, or attendances at meetings and conference by its executives." The court also rejected the CAF's argument that Kenney decision was motivated by the CAF's advocacy for the Palestinians.

Among the incidents cited was the CAF's decision to honour Zafar Bangash, who the court noted "has referred to Canadians as ‘infidels or non-believers’ in the past and reported on the September 11 attacks in a way that was unsympathetic to the victims." The court also noted that the CAF had linked videos of Hamas operatives and displayed the flags of Hamas and Islamic Jihad on their webside; both organizations are banned in Canada.

Several Jewish groups, including B'nai Brith Canada and the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs, expressed support for the ruling. Kenney later stated that the ruling was "a vindication of common sense" and sent a clear message that "groups who express apparently hateful views or who defend terrorist organizations should not receive taxpayer funding, period. This is especially true for organizations charged with the integration of newcomers."

Following the ruling, CAF national President Dr. Farid Ayad, announced that he would appeal the decision, but declined further comment.

Statements by Omar Shaban
On June 30, 2009, Omar Shaban, CAF's executive vice-president for Western Canada, allegedly wrote on his Facebook page that Canada was a "genocidal state" and referred to Canada's national holiday as "Fuck Canada Day" and added that "It's finally Canada Day...Couldn't be more ashamed to be Canadian." The CAF subsequently released issued a press release disassociating itself from Shaban's comments and stating that his words "in no way reflect of CAF nor its feelings towards Canada." Mohamed Boudjenane, the CAF's executive director, later stated that Shaban's comments were a "stupid faux pas." Shaban, who refused to back down from his comments, subsequently resigned from the CAF.