[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# River Lod, West Sussex

The River Lod is a short river draining about  of north west Sussex. The main source is on the Greensand Ridge at Marley Heights near Haslemere, about  above sea level. From here it flows west past Lynchmere, then south to Furnace Pond, where iron cannon were cast during the English Civil War. It then turns south east, flowing south of Fernhurst to Lickfold and Lurgashall where it formerly powered Lurgashall Mill, now moved to the Weald and Downland Open Air Museum. From Mill Farm it heads south between high banks, which it only overflows after the heaviest of rainfalls, passing between the hills of Lodsworth and River to Halfway Bridge on the A272 road then joining the River Rother at Lods Bridge.

North Park Furnace
Iron was produced by a blast furnace on the boundary of Fernhurst and Lynchmere parishes. Water to power the bellows was provided by an artificial lake covering about  created by a dam on the river. There was also a higher pond  north-west of the furnace to provide a reserve supply as continuity of production is vital for a blast furnace.

Lurgashall Mill
Another artificial lake between Lurgashall and Lodsworth supplied water to power Lurgashall Mill, producing flour. The mill is now operated at the Weald and Downland Open Air Museum at Singleton, also in West Sussex.

Lords Wood Barns
Formerly named Lodge Farm the old barns on the east bank of the river by Lords Wood were converted into offices for Sofa Workshop Company in 1996, saving the older barn from imminent collapse. The east pier of the bridge had sunk several centimetres before the bridge was underpinned and repaired at that time to carry the newly built road through the wood from the Lodsworth to Lickfold road. The Serpent Trail long distance path crosses the river here.

Water quality
The Environment Agency measure the water quality of the river systems in England. Each is given an overall ecological status, which may be one of five levels: high, good, moderate, poor and bad. There are several components that are used to determine this, including biological status, which looks at the quantity and varieties of invertebrates, angiosperms and fish. Chemical status, which compares the concentrations of various chemicals against known safe concentrations, is rated good or fail.

The water quality of the River Lod was as follows in 2016.

The reasons for the quality being less than good include sewage discharge and runoff of nutrients as a result of agriculture and land management.

Bibliography

Rickman, John (1998), The Land of Lod, Peggy Rickman, Midhurst, England

References

Rivers of West Sussex