[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rowntree's

lé had never undertaken a hostile takeover before. However, Nestlé was worried about the potential of Rowntree falling into the hands of one of its major competitors. Rowntree was the fourth-largest chocolate manufacturer in the world, after Mars, Hershey, and Cadbury, with a 7% global market share.

Nestlé eventually won control with an offer valuing Rowntree at £2.55 billion. Strategically, Nestlé had always seen Rowntree as a perfect fit for its own operations. Nestlé had strength in the block chocolate bar business, and Rowntree had strength in the countline branded chocolate business. Rowntree's strong global brands were the key reason for Nestlé's interest. Due to potential synergies between the two companies, Nestlé believed that savings between 5 and 15% of Rowntree's operating costs could be made if the companies were to combine.

The takeover was controversial, as Nestlé was effectively protected from similar takeover attempts under Swiss law. After the Nestlé takeover, the Rowntree chocolate ranges began to use the branding "Nestlé Rowntree", before eventually the Rowntree name was dropped from the packaging altogether, except on Rowntree's Cocoa and the Fruit Pastilles and Fruit Gums lines. The Mackintosh branding was dropped from all former Rowntree Mackintosh products except for Mackintosh's Toffee.

Between 1988 and 1994, the Nestlé Rowntree workforce was reduced by 2,000. The Nestlé Rowntree factory in Norwich closed in 1994, and Rolo, Yorkie, and Easter-egg production was moved to York.

In September 2006, it was announced that the manufacture of Smarties would be relocated to Hamburg, resulting in 645 job losses at the York factory. Production of Dairy Box was relocated to Spain, and Black Magic to the Czech Republic.

In May 2009, Nestlé launched a new jelly sweet, Rowntree's Randoms, and in April 2012, another new jelly sweet, Fruit Bottles, both under the Rowntree's brand.

Nestlé has invested more than £200 million in the Rowntree business since 1988, making the York site one of the world's largest confectionery factories. Nestlé's global research centre for confectionery is also based in York, and doubled in size following a £7 million investment.

Current branded products

The best known products that are still branded under the Rowntree name are Rowntree's Fruit Gums, Rowntree's Fruit Pastilles and Jelly Tots. Jelly Tots are soft, chewy fruit-flavoured sweets. They are round, sugar-coated gumdrop-like confections about 13mm in diameter, and contain 25% fruit juices and no artificial colours or flavours. Jelly Tots were invented by Dr Brian Boffey of Horsforth, Leeds when he was working for Rowntree's. Jelly Tots were launched in 1965 and quickly became established as a popular children's brand in Europe. Rowntree's Randoms were introduced in 2009.

The Rowntree brand is also used on a number of ice lollies (made by R&R Ice Cream) for Nestlé. The brand has a similar marketplace to that of the Trebor Bassett division of Cadbury's, and competes head-to-head with this company in a number of fruit-gum categories.

Advertising
The company largely eschewed advertising before its establishment as a public company in 1897, when it employed S. H. Benson as its agency. Before 1930, the company considered that quality products would speak for themselves, and did not need advertising to sell their benefits.

In 1932, Rowntree changed their agency to the London branch of J. Walter Thompson.

Notes

References

Further reading

External links

 
 History of Rowntree & Co
 A 1993 profile of the company in Management Today
 The Rowntree Society

 
Nestlé brands
Companies based in York
Food and drink companies established in 1862
Companies formerly listed on the London Stock Exchange
Confectionery companies of the United Kingdom
1862 establishments in the United Kingdom
British chocolate companies
Companies established in 1862