[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Żarnowiec Nuclear Power Plant

on) were canceled. Currently there are about 20 companies operating in the resettled town of Kartoszyno. Sources close to the proponents of the power plant claim that the losses resulting from mismanagement of the abandoned property could be as high as $2 billion.

Consequences

Environmental impact

The abandonment of the plant meant a large increase in emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants, since electricity in Poland mainly comes from coal.

Because the power plant was to incorporate an open-ended cooling system that returned hot water from cooling directly to the Żarnowiec Lake, the average temperature of the lake was predicted to rise by about 10 °C, so that even during winter the surface would not freeze. To prevent the uncontrolled growth of flora in such conditions, an ecological engineering project was started to introduce warm-water herbivore fish species, such as grass carps. As the first phase, to reduce the population of carnivorous species, fishing limits for them were lifted. The regulations were not changed after the construction was abandoned, causing an almost complete depletion of the lake's fishstock.

The pumped-storage reservoir now operates as the Żarnowiec Pumped Storage Power Station, the largest pumped-storage plant in Poland. Its operation causes variations in the lake's water level, causing the erosion of soil on its shores.

Legacy

One of the traces of the Żarnowiec Nuclear Power Plant is a special set of tableware emblazoned with the power plant's logo.

The meteorogical station operated until its parent company went bankrupt in 2002. Its equipment included a Plessey WP3 meteo radar, which was destroyed by scrap metal looters.

After a 2004 earthquake in Kaliningrad, the seismic stability of northern Poland was put in question.

Nuclear energy in Poland after Żarnowiec

At present, the future of nuclear energy in Poland is still an open issue. With growing demand for electricity, the traditional power plants burning coal are generating more and more environmental problems. In 2005, preliminary plans for constructing a nuclear power plant near the special economic zone surfaced. On July 1, 2005 the Ministry of Economy and Labor issued a statement titled Energy policy for Poland until 2025, which included mentions of the need for better public information about nuclear energy associated with 'the possibility of introducing such means of energy generation in Poland'. In 2008, a program called Polish energy policy until 2030 was approved, which outlines plans for two nuclear power plants to be built by 2020.
The National Nuclear Energy Agency identified the formerly planned sites at Żarnowiec and Klempicz and 6 alternative locations as the possible choices, along with 5 locations for nuclear waste storage. The Żarnowiec site has the advantage that most of the studies necessary before constructing a power plant have already been done.

A 2006 poll for the National Atomic Energy Agency found out that 60% accepted the construction of nuclear power plants to reduce the dependency on foreign gas, while 48% were in favor of constructing it near their place of residence if it reduced energy costs. A 2008 poll indicates that over 70% of Poles approved the construction of a nuclear power plant within 100 kilometers of their place of residence, 18% were against, while at the same time 47% stated that Poland should not invest in nuclear energy.

The popular Baltic Sea resort Mielno is one of three sites selected by Polish power company PGE in November 2011 to host a nuclear power station with a capacity of 3 gigawatts. In February 2012, residents voted overwhelmingly against the plan. Some 94 percent of the 2,389 people who took part in a referendum opposed the plant and only 5 percent supported it.

See also

Żarnowiec Pumped Storage Power Station - a pumped-storage plant originally intended only as an energy reservoir and load balancer
List of commercial nuclear reactors#Poland

References

External links

Photo gallery of the unfinished plant buildings, as they appeared in 2006
Stanislaw Latek National Atomic Energy Agency NUCLEAR NEWS FROM POLAND 

Abandoned places in Poland
Buildings and structures in Pomeranian Voivodeship
Energy in Poland
Nuclear power stations in Poland
Puck County
Unfinished nuclear reactors