[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Walus denaturalization case

Frank Walus (1922-1994) was born in Germany of Polish parents and emigrated to the United States in 1963. He worked in a factory in the Chicago area and became a US citizen in 1970. In 1973 he was accused of having been a Nazi who beat and killed Jews in Poland during World War II.  Prosecution was initiated by the US Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in 1977. He was convicted based upon questionable testimony in a bench trial before a judge who appeared visibly hostile to the defense. An appeals court vacated the verdict and ordered a new trial before a different judge.  By this time, the new Office of Special Investigations (OSI) had been established in the US Department of Justice. After conducting a lengthy and exhaustive investigation of witnesses and documents, OSI concluded that it "could not responsibly go forward with a new trial."  OSI dropped the charges, expressed regret that they had ever been filed, and partially reimbursed Walus for his expenses.

Background

Immediately after World War II, Americans chose not to dwell upon the war's atrocities, and Cold War threats caused Western governments to recruit former Nazis for intelligence work. This, along with U.S. immigration policies, made it relatively easy for former Nazis to enter the United States and become citizens.  In the 1970's, growing awareness and concern about these "quiet neighbors" resulted in the establishment of US government organizations to identify, denaturalize, and deport them. The early work by the Special Litigation Unit (SLU) of the INS was regarded as ineffective and, according to legal scholar Lawrence Douglas, led  "botched litigations."  One of these was the Walus case.

Walus expelled a boarder, Michael Alper, from his home in 1973 after a bitter argument.  A year later, Alper told a Chicago Jewish agency that Walus had bragged about his work as a Nazi in Poland.  The allegation ultimately reached Simon Wiesenthal, a well known Nazi hunter, who brought the matter to the attention of the INS.   Alper was Jewish and his parents had been killed by the Nazis.  Nonetheless he and his wife had continued to live with Walus even after Walus' alleged disclosure about persecuting Jews.

By 1976, the INS was under pressure to address public outcries about former Nazis in America.  INS sent a grainy, washed-out 1959 photograph of Walus to the police in Israel requesting information.  The police put an advertisement including Walus' name in local newspapers requesting any information Polish survivors might have. Some who came forward and viewed the photo said they recognized Walus as a Gestapo officer who had killed Jews in the Polish cities of Kielce and Częstochowa.  In 1977, the US Attorney in Chicago filed suit to revoke Walus' citizenship on the basis that Walus had been a Gestapo officer who committed wartime atrocities and had lied in order to gain entry into the US.  Once denaturalized, Walus could be deported.

Trial

Denaturalization was a civil, not criminal matter and Walus was not entitled to a jury trial.  Evidence was heard by the eighty-three year old Jewish judge Julius Hoffman who had a history of injecting himself into cases before him.  He interfered with defense attorney Robert Korenkiewicz's questioning of witnesses and declared that "the defendant did commit war atrocities" even before Korenkiewicz had begun presenting Walus' defense.

The INS prosecution was almost entirely built upon witnesses who claimed to have seen Walus in Poland committing atrocities.  No documents were presented to support that Walus was in Poland during the war or that he was ever a Gestapo officer.

Walus asserted that he was not in Poland during the war, but was one of the millions of Poles sent to Germany to provide forced farm labor. There was documentary evidence from German archives that farmers had paid for Walus' health insurance there and that his forced service in Germany was continuous starting in 1940.  He had worked on four or five farms, and the wives of the farmers where he had worked remembered his being there.  Further, as a Pole he could not have been a member of the Gestapo, which restricted its number to members of the "master race" and to people taller than Walus' 5'4" height.