[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Prostitution in Asia

For many, entering into the sex industry is the only way in which they could survive economically in Nepal. However, sex work is not officially recognized among the industrial or service sectors of labour. Sex trafficking happens on a large scale in Nepal, but voluntary sex work is common.

Pakistan

Prostitution is illegal in Pakistan but a taboo culture of sex-trade exists as an open secret. Prostitution is largely based in organisational setups like brothels or furthered by individual call girls in the Punjab province of Pakistan. The sex trade is deemed illegal in the country due to the declaration of extramarital sex as an immoral activity. Pakistani prostitutes, thus, operate underground and in spite of the legal difficulties, prostitution in Pakistan is prevalent. In some areas of the country prostitution is strictly illegal and traditionally punishable by death, especially in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan regions.

Sri Lanka

Prostitution is illegal in Sri Lanka, and related activities such as soliciting, procuring, and brothels are outlawed. It is also illegal to traffic persons for prostitution, especially minors. Prostitution is not as widespread in Sri Lanka as in some neighbouring countries. It is estimated that there are 40,000 prostitutes (known as "Ganikawa") in the country, and nearly half of them operate in Colombo.

Southeast Asia

Brunei

Prostitution in Brunei is illegal and can incur a punishment of imprisonment for 1 year and a fine of BN$5,000 for a first offence, or 3 years and  BN$10,000 on a second or subsequent conviction.

In 1993, in a diplomatic affair dubbed as the Brunei beauties, Senator Ernesto Maceda, with testimony from Rosanna Roces, claimed that there were illegal recruitment of Filipinas in Brunei as prostitutes and entertainers. Prince Jefri, the brother of Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah were among those linked to the scandal, in which Ruffa Gutierrez, Vivian Velez, Lea Orosa, Aurora Sevilla, Sheila Israel, Rachel Lobangco, Tetchie Agbayani, Maritoni Fernandez, Gretchen Barretto, and Cristina Gonzales were alleged to be amongst the victims.

Cambodia

Prostitution in Cambodia is illegal, but prevalent. The 2008 Cambodian Law on Suppression of Human Trafficking and Sexual Exploitation
has proven controversial, with international concerns regarding human rights abuses resulting from it, such as outlined in the 2010 Human Rights Watch report.

Violence against prostitutes, especially gang rape, called bauk in Cambodian, is very common. Perpetrators include customers and police officers. According to some sources, such assaults are not condemned  by society, due to the extreme stigmatization of prostitutes.

Indonesia

Prostitution in Indonesia is legally considered a "crime against decency/morality", although it is widely practised, tolerated and even regulated in some areas. Some women are financially motivated to become prostitutes, while others may be forced by friends, relatives or strangers. Traditionally, they have met with customers in entertainment venues or special prostitution complexes, or lokalisasi. However, recently internet forums and Facebook have been used to facilitate prostitute-client relations. In recent years, child sex tourism has become an issue at the resort islands of Batam and Bali.

Laos

Prostitution in Laos is regarded as a criminal activity and can be subject to severe prosecution. It is much less common than in neighbouring Thailand. Soliciting for prostitution instead takes place mainly in the city's bars and clubs, although street prostitution also takes place. The visibility of prostitution in Laos belies the practice's illegality. Most prostitutes in Laos are from poor rural Laotian families and the country's ethnic minorities. In addition to these, there are many prostitutes in Laos from China and Vietnam, while some Laotian women go to Thailand to work as sex workers.

Malaysia

Prostitution in Malaysia is legal and widespread in all states except Kelantan. Related activities such as soliciting and brothels are illegal. There were an estimated 150,000 prostitutes in Malaysia in 2014 and that the country's sex trade generated US$963 million.

Kuala Lumpur has a number of red-light districts where street prostitution, massage parlours and brothels can be found. The most upmarket, and probably the best known, is Bukit Bintang. More downmarket is the RLD at Lorong Haji Taib where Indian, Chinese, and local prostitutes operate. Close by is the Chow Kit area where transgender prostitutes ply at night. Jalan Alor, Jalan Hicks, and Jalan Thamibipilly in the Brickfields area are red-light districts. Street walkers operate around Jalan Petaling.

Myanmar

Prostitution in Myanmar (also known as Burma) is illegal. Prostitution is a major social issue that particularly affects women and children.