[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Clinical engineering

close to where the equipment is actually used. Clinical engineers in some countries, such as India, are trained to innovate and find technological solutions for clinical needs.

The other issue, not evident from the ACCE definition, is the appropriate educational background for a clinical engineer.

Generally, certification programs expect applicants to hold an accredited bachelor's degree in engineering (or at least engineering technology).

Potential new name 
In 2011, AAMI arranged a meeting to discuss a new name for clinical engineering. After careful debate, the vast majority decided on "Healthcare Technology Management".

Due to confusion about the dividing line between clinical engineers (engineers) and BMETs (technicians), the word engineering was deemed limiting from the administrator's perspective and unworkable from the educator's perspective. An ABET-accredited college could not name an associate degree program "engineering". Also, the adjective, clinical, limited the scope of the field to hospitals.

It remains unresolved how widely accepted this change will be, how this will affect the Clinical Engineering Certification or the formal recognition of clinical engineering as a subset of biomedical engineering.

For regulatory and licensure reasons, true engineering specialties must be defined in a way that distinguishes them from the technicians they work alongside.

Certification
Certification in clinical engineering is governed by the Board of Examiners for Clinical Engineering Certification.

To be eligible, a candidate must hold appropriate credentials (such as an accredited engineering or engineering-technology degree), have specific and relevant experience, and pass an examination.

The certification process involves a three-hour written examination of up to 150 multiple-choice questions and a separate oral exam. Weight is given to applicants who are already licensed and registered Professional Engineers, which has extensive requirements itself.

In Canada, the term 'engineer' is protected by law. As a result, a candidate must be registered as a Professional Engineer (P.Eng.) before they can become a Certified Clinical Engineer.

In the UK 

Clinical engineers in the UK typically work within the NHS.

Clinical engineering is a modality of the clinical scientist profession, registered by the HCPC. The responsibilities of clinical engineers are varied and often include providing specialist clinical services, inventing and developing medical devices, and medical device management. The roles typically involve both patient contact and academic research. Clinical engineering units within an NHS organization are often part of a larger medical physics department.

Clinical engineers are supported and represented by the Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine, within which the clinical engineering special interest group oversees the engineering activities.

The three primary aims of Clinical Engineering with the NHS are:
 To ensure medical equipment in the clinical environment is available and appropriate to the needs of the clinical service. 
 To ensure medical equipment functions effectively and safely. 
 To ensure medical equipment and its management represents value for patient benefit.

Registration 
Clinical engineers are registered with the HCPC, or the RCT (Register of Clinical Technologist). Assessments prior to registration are provided by the National School of Healthcare Science, the Association of Clinical Scientists or the AHCS.

There are two HCPC programs for becoming a clinical scientist. The first is a Certificate of Attainment, awarded for completing the NHS Scientist Training Programme (STP).

The second is the Certificate of Equivalence, awarded on successful demonstration of equivalence to the STP. This route is normally chosen by individuals that have significant scientific experience prior to seeking registration.

Both are provided by the AHCS.

Electronics and Biomedical Engineering 
EBME technicians and engineers in the UK work in the NHS and private sector. They are part of the Clinical Engineering familiar in the UK.

Their role is to manage and maintain medical equipment assets in NHS and private healthcare organizations. They are professionally registered with the Engineering Council as Chartered Engineers, Incorporated Engineers, or engineering technicians.

The EBME community share their knowledge on the EBME Forums.

There is also an annual 2-day National Exhibition and Conference, wherein engineers meet to learn about the latest medical products and to attend the 500-seat conference where academic and business leaders share their expertise. The conference was founded in 2009 as a way of improving healthcare through sharing knowledge from experienced professionals involved in medical equipment management.

In India