[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ascanio Sforza

ighting against Cardinal della Rovere and Georges d'Amboise, the formal nominee of France. When Pius III (Francesco Piccolomini) died the same month of his coronation, Cardinal Sforza took part in the Papal conclave, October 1503, but Giuliano della Rovere (Julius II) was elected nearly unanimously.

On 23 May 1505, Cardinal Ascanio attended a Secret Consistory in good health, and went hunting after lunch. On his return he felt ill. He took medicine against the plague, but on Wednesday, 28 May, took to his bed with a cold sweat. The fifty-year-old Ascanio died in Rome, in the house in his garden next to S. Girolamo dei Schiavoni, on 28 May 1505. It was not disappointment, however, that killed Cardinal Ascanio, but the plague (pestis inguinaria). He was buried that same evening, with no cardinal and neither Master of Ceremonies being present due to the plague. Julius II commissioned the erection of the Cardinal's tomb in the Cappella Maggiore of Santa Maria del Popolo, with a revealing inscription in which Pope Julius declared himself "mindful of [Ascanio's] most honourable virtues" and "forgetful of [past] contentions" ("virtutum memor honestissimarum, contentionum oblitus"). The artist was Andrea Sansovino.

The arts
Ascanio's lifelong focus on public affairs distracted his attention from being a patron of the arts. However, he was the one to introduce Josquin des Prez, the most famous musician of the Renaissance, to the papal court in 1486. He also commissioned the Liber musices of Florentius de Faxolis. Strenuous and hard-skinned as a politician, Ascanio preferred gambling rather than studying. He was undoubtedly Machiavellian, but also clear-sighted and intelligent, with haughty spirit and unflinching courage. His political morals were typical of his era and he remained dedicated to his love for Milan and for his family.

Representations in popular culture

Television
 In the 1981 BBC series The Borgias, Cardinal Sforza is played by British actor Clive Merrison.
 In the 2011 Showtime series The Borgias, Cardinal Sforza is played by British actor Peter Sullivan.
In the Canal+ series Borgia: Faith and Fear, Cardinal Sforza is played by English actor Christian McKay.

References and notes

Bibliography

 Pastor, Ludwig von. The History of the Popes, from the close of the Middle Ages, third edition, Volume V Saint Louis: B. Herder 1902.
 Pastor, Ludwig von. The History of the Popes, from the close of the Middle Ages, second edition, Volume VI Saint Louis: B. Herder 1902.

External links
 The Cardinals of the Holy Roman Church – Biographical Dictionary

1455 births
1505 deaths
Clergy from Cremona
Ascanio Sforza
16th-century Italian cardinals
Bishops of Pavia
15th-century Italian cardinals
15th-century Italian Roman Catholic bishops
16th-century Italian Roman Catholic bishops
16th-century deaths from plague (disease)
Bishops of Elna