[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# HMS Brilliant (H84)

HMS Brilliant was a  built for the Royal Navy (RN) around 1930. Initially assigned to the Mediterranean Fleet, she was transferred to the Home Fleet in 1936. The ship then patrolled Spanish waters enforcing the arms blockade during the first year of the Spanish Civil War of 1936–39. She spent most of World War II on convoy escort duties in the English Channel, and the North Atlantic, based at Dover, Gibraltar, and Freetown, Sierra Leone. During the war, Brilliant never destroyed a submarine, but did sink a Vichy French minesweeper during Operation Torch. She also intercepted two German supply ships and rescued survivors of two troopships that had been torpedoed by submarines. The ship became a target ship at the end of the war and was scrapped in 1948.

Description
Brilliant displaced  at standard load and  at deep load. The ship had an overall length of , a beam of  and a draught of . She was powered by Parsons geared steam turbines, driving two shafts, which developed a total of  and gave a maximum speed of . Steam for the turbines was provided by three Admiralty 3-drum boilers. Brilliant carried a maximum of  of fuel oil that gave her a range of  at . The ship's complement was 134 officers and ratings, although it increased to 142 during wartime.

The ship mounted four 45-calibre quick-firing (QF) 4.7-inch Mk IX guns in single mounts, designated 'A', 'B', 'X', and 'Y' from front to rear. For anti-aircraft (AA) defence, Brilliant had two  QF 2-pounder Mk II AA guns mounted on a platform between her funnels. She was fitted with two above-water quadruple torpedo tube mounts for  torpedoes. One depth charge rail and two throwers were fitted; 20 depth charges were originally carried, but this increased to 35 shortly after the war began. The ship was fitted with a Type 119 ASDIC set to detect submarines by reflections from sound waves beamed into the water.

During a refit in March 1941, Brilliants anti-aircraft armament was reinforced when the rear set of torpedo tubes was replaced by a  (12-pounder) AA gun and two  Oerlikon autocannon were added. In addition, her depth charge stowage was increased to 60. 'Y' gun was removed to compensate for the additional weight and two more Oerlikons were added during a refit in April 1942. When the ship was converted into an escort destroyer beginning in January 1943, a split Hedgehog anti-submarine spigot mortar was installed on each side of 'A' gun, the 3-inch AA gun was removed and the rear torpedo tubes reinstalled, and stowage was increased to 125 depth charges. By this time, the 2-pounders had been replaced by two additional Oerlikons, for a total of six.

Construction and career
The ship was ordered on 22 March 1929 from Swan Hunter, under the 1928 Naval Programme. She was laid down on 8 July 1929, and launched on 9 October 1930, fully fitted out with armament, machinery and equipment, and ready to go to sea, as the seventh RN ship to carry this name. Brilliant was completed on 21 February 1931 at a cost of £221,638, excluding items supplied by the Admiralty such as guns, ammunition and communications equipment. After her commissioning, she was assigned to the 4th Destroyer Flotilla with the Mediterranean Fleet until September 1936 when it was transferred to Home Fleet. On 31 December 1935, the Imperial Airways Short Calcutta flying boat City of Kharthoum crashed just outside the port of Alexandria, Egypt. Brilliant rescued the sole survivor, the aircraft's pilot, with the remaining three crew members and nine passengers killed. Brilliant was assigned as guard ship at Málaga when the Spanish Civil War began in July 1936. On 24 August 1936, the flotilla leader  was in collision with the Greek steamer Atonis G. Lemos in thick fog  north of Alderney, sinking the merchant ship. Brilliant rescued the crew of Atonis G. Lemos and accompanied Keith back to Portsmouth.  During the winter of 1936–37, Brilliant enforced the arms blockade imposed by Britain and France on both sides by patrolling the Spanish ports on the Bay of Biscay. On 6 March 1938, Brilliant and sister-ship  were attacked by Nationalist bombers while patrolling off the coast of Southern Spain. Neither destroyer was damaged.