[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# List of smoking bans

he-spot fine for smoking in a workplace is £50 (~€70/~$100), while a business that allows smoking can be fined £2,500 (~€3,700/~$5,000).

A £200 fine may be levied by local councils if businesses fail to display no-smoking signs.
An opinion poll showed that 91% of people supported the law.

Scotland

On 26 March 2006, Scotland prohibited smoking in enclosed (more than 50% covered) public places, which includes public buildings, workplaces, sports stadiums, bars and restaurants. Exemptions are in place to allow hotel guests to smoke in their own rooms, as long as the hotel has designated them as smoking rooms. The law restricts smoking in bus shelters, phone boxes or other shelters that are more than 50% enclosed. It also prohibits smoking in trucks and vans owned by a company, whether or not the driver is the only person inside (though smoking while driving was already legally questionable as it could be presented as "driving without due care and attention"). Nevertheless, the ban on smoking in work vehicles is commonly flouted, especially by tradesmen, and compliance with outdoor bans is minimal. There are no restrictions on smoking in railway stations as the railway bylaw applies only to England, and smoking remains common in outdoor areas of railway stations. Compliance with the indoor ban in pubs, restaurants and other workplaces is almost universal. Businesses covered by the smoking ban must display a statutory smoking sign at the entrance to, and around the building as well as a smoke-free policy. Opinion polls at its introduction showed a clear majority of the Scottish public were in favour of the ban.

As in New Zealand, the smoke-free law was initially criticised by certain interested groups (e.g., publicans, cafe and bingo hall owners, etc.) who feared that it would adversely impact their businesses. A survey published by the Scottish Beer & Pubs Association one year on from implementation concluded that "the number of pub licensed premises in Scotland has remained more or less constant over the last year" indicating fears of an adverse impact of the ban on the hospitality industry were unfounded. Widespread concerns prior to implementation about the impact on bingo halls prove harder to objectively assess: As at May 2008 there is anecdotal evidence to suggest an increase in closures of bingo halls since implementation. However, no statistical analysis has been conducted and speculation within the betting and gaming industry is that a decline could also be the result of demographic changes and increases in online gaming.

The NHS Scotland Quit Smoking Line reported it received an additional 50,000 calls from people wishing to give up in the six months after the smoke-free law was introduced. In September 2007 a study of nine Scottish hospitals over the twelve months following implementation reported positively on its impact on the country's health, including a 17% drop in admissions for heart attacks, compared with average reductions of 3% per year for the previous decade.

Wales

Smoking was restricted across all enclosed public premises and work premises in Wales on 2 April 2007. Adherence is widespread and many public houses have closed since the law came into place.

Public places must display a special bilingual no smoking sign:
 "Mae ysmygu yn y fangre hon yn erbyn y gyfraith" (Welsh)
 "It is against the law to smoke in these premises" (English)

In addition, Wales is due to introduce a smoking ban outside schools and hospitals from Summer 2019.

United Nations
As United Nations buildings are not the subject of any national jurisdiction, the United Nations has its own smoking and non-smoking policies. Following the gradual introduction of partial smoking restrictions between 1985 and 2003, Secretary-General Kofi Annan introduced in 2003 a total prohibition upon smoking at United Nations Headquarters. Similar restrictions have not been introduced in field offices of the United Nations worldwide.  Some specialised agencies of the United Nations, such as the United Nations Children's Fund and the World Health Organization have their own strict smoke-free regulations that apply to their offices worldwide, but the same is not necessarily true for entities of the Secretariat, such as the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). Only on 13 December 2007, OCHA introduced a smoke-free regulation applicable to all its field offices.

United States

Effective April 1998, inflight smoking is banned by the United States Department of Transportation on all commercial passenger flights in the United States or by American air carriers. On 9 August 1997, President Bill Clinton issued , banning smoking in all interior spaces owned, rented, or leased by the Executive Branch of the Federal Government, as well as in any outdoor areas under executive branch control near air intake ducts.