[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dru Onyx

Rodney Kellman (born September 24, 1974), better known by his ring names Dru Onyx and Soa Amin, is a Canadian professional wrestler, stuntman and trainer of professional wrestlers. He wrestled the majority of his career in Canada for the National Wrestling Alliance, and Northern Championship Wrestling.

Early life
Kellman was born in Saint Michael, Barbados, but when he was still young, his family moved to Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Six years later, they relocated to Chomedey Laval where, as a teen, he played both baseball and football. Kellman played football for the John Abbott Islanders and the University of Ottawa Gee Gees. He also played Semi Pro for the Montreal Condors, Plattsburg North Stars, and Lake City Stars. He then worked as a security for the Saudi Arabian Embassy Consulate Section in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

Professional wrestling career
Kellman started his professional wrestling career in February 1999 as a graduate of the Northern Championship Wrestling’s school. He was trained under the guidance of Marc Pilon. He debuted six months later against Pilon for the NCW Quebec Heavyweight Championship. In the fall, wrestling was put on hold to go play university football for the Ottawa Gee Gees. In 2002, he came back to the Montreal wrestling scene for Paul Leduc’s Federation Lutte Québécoise.

IWS

He then joined Internet Wrestling Syndicate (IWS) where he feuded with the Green Phantom over the IWS version of the World Heavyweight Championship for almost half a year. Upon winning the title on March 15, 2003 in his hometown of Laval Quebec, he defended the title five months before losing the title to Arsenal in a ladder match.

Onyx returned to the IWS on June 3, 2005 to team up with his nemesis Green Phantom to battle Pierre Carl Ouellet and Sabu in what was Sabu’s last indie appearance before going to World Wrestling Entertainment.

National Wrestling Alliance and Championship Wrestling Association

Onyx first worked with the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) was going on a one-week tour in 2004 for Andre Baker's NWA UK Hammerlock where he wrestled in tag team matches siding with Dany Williams in a series of matches against Fergal Devitt and Paul Tracey. In the United Kingdom, Onyx used his "Son of Abdullah" alter-ego, which is influenced by Abdullah the Butcher.

Shortly after a tour with NWA UK Hammerlock, Onyx joined Championship Wrestling Association (CWA) on January 28, 2004 and was their federation’s first champion holding the title for three months before losing the title to Sunny Warcloud on May 29, 2004 in an Indian Strap match. Onyx regained the Quebec title a month later in a three-way dance with Sunny Warcloud and Manuel Vegas. Later on when CWA joined partnership with NWA Quebec, the CWA title was then recognized as the NWA Quebec Heavyweight Championship. On October 15, 2004 Onyx won the NWA British Commonwealth Heavyweight Championship defeating Australia's Will Phoenix in Winnipeg. He then toured for NWA Ireland again using his "Son of Abdullah" alter-ego.

On his second tour with NWA UK Hammerlock, after making three mandatory defenses in England, he lost the NWA British Commonwealth title to Fergal Devitt (Pegasus 2) on October 27 in Cardiff Wales in a hardcore match. Two days later, Onyx beat Paul Tracey for the NWA United Kingdom Heavyweight Championship in Maidstone Kent. On October 29 in Ashford Kent, England he also won back the NWA British Commonwealth title from Devitt in a handicap match with Devitt and Tracey working together. Due to the fact the UK Heavyweight Championship had to be defended within the next 30 days, Onyx was forced to relinquish the title and concentrate on defending the British Commonwealth title for the last two days of his two-week tour.

On January 26, 2005 Jake Mathews defeated Onyx for the NWA Quebec Heavyweight title. On October 8, 2005 in Nashville, Tennessee at the NWA 57th anniversary show Fergal Devitt once again defeated Onyx for the British Commonwealth title. After the match both participants were invited to the New Japan Inoki Dojo.

Coming back from the Inoki Dojo Onyx captured more NWA gold on April 22, 2006 in Southern Championship Wrestling. In Almonte Springs, Florida, Onyx defeated Thomas Marr and Chasyn Rance in a three-way to win the NWA North American Heavyweight Championship.

Subsequently, he defended the North American title in both Canada and the United States, including on July 7, 2006 at a Total Nonstop Action Wrestling house show. He also defended the title overseas in both Ireland and in the UK. After an over one-year reign as North American Heavyweight Champion, he lost the title to Damien Waynes on August 24, 2007 in Las Vegas, Nevada. On October 26, 2007 in St. Albans, Vermont, Onyx defeated Paul Tracey to once again become the NWA British Commonwealth Champion.