[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Ignacio Hidalgo de Cisneros

er the supplies requested. In September 1938 promoted to general, after the fall of Catalonia Hidalgo de Cisneros briefly stayed in France and then returned to the Republican zone. He refused to join Casado's coup and remained loyal to Negrin; on 6 March he left Spain, flying from Elda to Toulouse. 

At unspecified time in 1939 Hidalgo de Cisneros moved from France to the USSR. His exact role and whereabouts are not clear; according to an oral testimony he was briefly engaged in the aviation industry; allegedly offered a rank of general in the Red Army he declined. At unspecified time, possibly in late 1939 though definitely prior to 1941 he transferred via France to Mexico. In June 1942 in a US communist periodical he called for opening of the second front in Europe. Living in Mexico City, where he re-joined his wife parted in early 1939, thanks to her contacts he met Eleanor Roosevelt, Bette Davis and other celebrities. Hidalgo de Cisneros befriended Wenceslao Roces, Ignacio Mantecón, Pablo Neruda and Ernest Hemingway, though happy days interchanged with depressive ones. It is in Mexico that he got divorced; the official reason quoted was mutual infidelity, though Hidalgo de Cisneros has later always referred to his former wife with respect. Active among the Spanish communist emigres he was increasingly unhappy about their witch-hunting disputes and intrigues. With his assets running out and the whisky brand management enterprise turning into a failure, he was suffering also from lack of funds. His American friends arranged for him a job of a horse riding instructor in a US college, but as a communist activist he was denied the residence permit; some sources claim he turned down the offer himself. In financial dire straits he decided to return to Europe. Taking advantage of the PCE network in France he arranged residence behind the Iron Curtain; as at that time Poland was admitting a limited number of Spanish communist exiles, in 1949 or 1950 he settled in Warsaw.

Soviet

In the Polish capital Hidalgo de Cisneros was employed by Spanish section of the Polish Radio and worked on his memoirs; living in a comfortable apartment and paid a salary of 2,000 zloty (the average pay was 550 zlotys) he was reportedly embarrassed  about his privileged status. He was the most distinguished person within a small community of local Republican exiles, which included Manuel Sánchez Arcas, Francisco Antón Sanz and Álvaro Peláez Antón; he was also celebrated by Polish combatants of International Brigades. In 1954 he was elected to the PCE Central Committee. In 1959 he was to return to Mexico via Moscow, but for unclear reasons the plan did not work out. On request of Santiago Álvarez, who at that time acted as PCE liaison with Eastern European communist regimes, Hidalgo de Cisneros was readmitted to Warsaw, where he was granted the retiree status with 3,000 zloty pension. At that time the manuscript of first part of his memoirs was ready and being edited by Spanish staff of Radio España Independiente (es), in 1955 moved from Moscow to Bucharest. In 1961 he travelled to Romania to finalize the publication; having received VIP treatment, he spent some time in the luxury government spa in Sinaia.

In Romania Hidalgo de Cisneros met Ramón Mendezona, José Antonio Uribes, Marcel Plans and Federico Melchor, though in particular he befriended Luis Galán, son of his Avila Academia de Intendencia instructor and also a Republican exile, working in REI.  Galán suggested he moves permanently to Romania, a proposal welcomed by Hidalgo de Cisneros. Despite 12 years of residence he did not feel well in Poland, depressed by early dusk, cold and rainy climate, melancholic flat countryside and potato-based cuisine; writing to Galan from the Polish mountain resort of Zakopane he complained about having no assistance when working on politically sensitive second part of his memoirs. In late 1962 he moved to Romania and settled at Bulevard Michurin in Bucharest, in a small but carefully selected apartment and with Roberto Carillo as his neighbor. It is not clear what citizenship he held, either in Romania or earlier in Poland. He travelled to Western Europe, frequently visiting France to take part in PCE sittings and to see his relatives