[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John O'Mahony

een a military body in pagan Ireland, celebrated in the songs of Ossian. The early portion of Keating's History is occupied with the exploits of the ancient Fenians. The organisation of the new society was completed at conventions that were held in Chicago in 1864, and in Cincinnati in January 1865.

Civil War
At the time of the Cincinnati convention, O'Mahony held the rank of colonel of the 69th Regiment of New York State Militia, recruited mainly from the ranks of the Brotherhood, which had also furnished a large proportion of Meagher's Irish Brigade, the Corcoran Legion, and Irish regiments engaged in the US Civil War.
The rapid growth in membership of the Fenian Brotherhood rendered it impossible for O'Mahony to retain the colonelcy of the 69th regiment, which he had held for some time, and resigning he gave all his attention to the spread of Fenianism.

Fenian growth
The close of the civil war in the spring of 1865 gave a great impetus to the Fenians, owing to the number of Irish-American soldiers that were disbanded and anxious to see service elsewhere. Money poured into the Fenian exchequer; probably $500,000 was subscribed between 1860 and 1867. Many differences occurred between O'Mahony and James Stephens and the Central Council relative to the policy to be pursued for the attainment of their object, but O'Mahony remained president of the organisation for several years. He did not take any part personally in the attempted Fenian Rising of 1867 or in the raids on Canada, although his advice counted for much in these enterprises.

In New York, O'Mahony and his paper the Irish People was challenged by the IRB exile David Bell and his paper the Irish Republic. Bell, a committed supporter of the Radical Republican agenda of black franchise and Reconstruction, repeatedly criticized O'Mahony's branch of the Fenian Brotherhood, dubbing it the "bloated carcass of gaseous Manhattanism." He argued that O'Mahony was indifferent to the need to "cleanse"  the spirits of the Irish in America: "Let our people fling off the scales of bigotry and declare that all men are entitled to 'life, liberty, and happiness.'"

Later years

He devoted the last years of his life to literary pursuits, but suffered from ill health, and he had a hard struggle to secure the bare means for subsistence. However visionary may have been his objectives, he was honest, and although thousands had passed through his hands, he was often at a loss for a dollar. When his poverty was discovered, he declined to receive assistance in any shape. He died in New York City in 1877 and soon after his death his remains were taken to Ireland and interred with the honors of a public funeral in Glasnevin Cemetery in Dublin.

References

External links
 
 

1815 births
1877 deaths
Burials at Glasnevin Cemetery
Irish soldiers in the United States Army
Members of the Irish Republican Brotherhood
People educated at Midleton College
Writers from County Limerick
People of the Fenian raids
Union Army colonels
Military personnel from County Limerick
Alumni of Trinity College Dublin
Writers from County Cork
Military personnel from County Cork