[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Blue hole

ermine what species of plants and trees existed around the area thousands of years ago. For example, The Bahamas today are dominated by tropical dry evergreens, and tropical pines, but sediment cores from the Abacos blue hole revealed preserved woody species, such as Coccoloba, Exothea, and Bursera.

Expeditions 
Exploring blue holes requires a level of competence and equipment appropriate to the depth and overhead penetration. In 2009 a team of scientists set out to study seven of these blue holes in the Bahamas. Through over 150 dives, the scientists, led by Keith Tinker, investigated bacteria able to live in anoxic environments. This allowed them to make connections to fields such as astrobiology where organisms thrive without oxygen or sunlight.

In 2018, another group of scientists set out to explore the Great Blue Hole of Belize using two submarines of the latest technology. One of the major scientific contributions to result from this expedition was the first 3-dimensional map of its interior. The researchers captured features such as stalactites, the hydrogen sulfide layer, and other details that cannot usually be seen by the naked human eye.

As part of a three-year study, a group of scientists set out in May and September 2019 to explore a blue hole nicknamed the "Amberjack Hole" located 30 miles off the coast of Sarasota, Florida. Individuals from Mote Marine Laboratory, Florida Atlantic University, Harbor Branch, Georgia Institute of Technology, the United States Geological Survey, and the NOAA Office of Ocean Exploration participated in the expedition. The expedition gathered information about life around and within the hole, seawater composition, and the hole's bottom sediments. A follow-up expedition is planned in August 2020 to a deeper blue hole named the "Green Banana" off the coast of Florida.

In contrast to the various successful expeditions completed, many explorers have perished in their attempts to reach the bottom of a blue hole. The Red Sea Blue Hole located in Egypt is nicknamed the "Divers' Cemetery" because at least 40 divers have died there.

Diving risks
Despite the beauty and allure of blue holes, they are some of the most dangerous waters to dive. Nitrogen Narcosis begins to set in at depths below 70 feet and causes disorientation and changes in consciousness. Divers experiencing Nitrogen Narcosis may become too confused to swim back into shallower waters, and some never make it back to the surface. Water clarity and light both decrease significantly with depth, adding to the disorientation divers experience. Divers must also remain aware of the animals they may encounter in these holes. Shark species including Bull sharks, reef sharks, and Hammerhead sharks have been seen making use of Blue holes, and occasionally attack humans. In recent years, Dean's Blue Hole and the Great Blue Hole have claimed over 200 lives each, many of which occurred due to divers pushing past the limits of their training.

See also

 Electromagnetic absorption by water
 Karst topography
 List of sinkholes

References

Further reading

External links
World's deepest blue hole found in South China Sea
PBS TV program "Extreme Cave Diving"
Bahamas Blue Holes Guide 
Bahamas Introduction
The Blue Holes Foundation 
Belize Audubon Society
What's a Blue Hole? Explanation at the Bahamas Caves Research Foundation
How Blue Holes Work

Cave geology
Marine geology
.Blue
Underwater diving sites
Blue