[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yemeni Air Force

The Yemeni Air Force () is the air operations branch of the Yemeni Armed Forces. Numbers of aircraft can not be confirmed but serviceability of these aircraft is low. Aircraft have been acquired by donations from other countries supporting either the Soviet Union or the United States during the Cold War. However, most of the air force was destroyed by airstrikes during Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen.

History

Early Yemeni military flying
After being confronted by British air power during several conflicts in the 1920s, Imam Yahya, the King of Yemen, sought support from Italy in order to acquire aircraft for his country. In January 1926, an Italian was contracted to deliver six aircraft, the first three of which arrived in April. However, these were found to be in a poor state. After the Imam complained about this issue to the Italians, they agreed to provide Yemen with some better aircraft. In August, one was presented to Yemen. In 1927, 12 Yemenis were sent to Italy for flight training; with the help of an Italian team, a flight school was also set up in Yemen. A Junkers A 35 and a Junkers F 13 were acquired that same year. The A 35 crashed less than two months after its delivery, killing all three on board. This, along with language issues and renewed fighting with the British, caused Imam Yahya to stop the efforts to establish an air force.

This changed in the late 1940s, when several aircraft were bought from different sources: a single Amiot AAC-1 Toucan was purchased from Lebanon, as well as one Noorduyn Norseman from Egypt, and two Douglas C-47s from Italy. Two North American T-6 Texans were also donated by Saudi Arabia in 1955. In 1957, a major arms deal was signed with Czechoslovakia, including 24 Avia B-33 attack aircraft. However, due to a lack of support materiel and spare parts, none of these aircraft was ever flown in Yemen. In the same period, the Soviets provided four Mil Mi-4 and two Mil Mi-1 helicopters, as well as a single Ilyushin Il-14 transport aircraft. An aviation college was also created, and it was equipped with 10 Czechoslovak-made Zlin Z-126s that had been ordered together with the B-33s.

Birth of the North and South Yemeni Air Forces
The Yemen Arab Republic Air Force (YARAF) was officially established on 20 November 1967. On this month, the Soviets delivered nine MiG-17 fighters and a single MiG-15UTI training aircraft, as well as four Ilyushin Il-28s, and three Antonov An-2s. Together with four MiG-17Fs, two Il-28s, two Il-14s and some Yakovlev Yak-11s donated by the Egyptians when they withdrew, and the remaining Zlin Z-126s, these aircraft constituted the whole fleet of the newly created air force as of late 1967. The YARAF was immediately engaged in the fighting against Royalist tribesmen, notably during the Siege of Sanaa. Some of the aircraft were flown by Soviet and Syrian pilots. While MiG-17s, Yak-11s and Il-28s attacked Royalist troops, Il-14s brought in supplies and evacuated the wounded from the besieged capital. During the 70 days of the siege, two MiG-17s were destroyed and their pilots killed, as well as one Yak-11 that was piloted by a Soviet, who was killed too. Five more airmen were killed during the siege, in unknown circumstances.