[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# The Burning Tigris

force to seize the Gallipoli peninsula. Sims noted that the best way to stop the Armenian genocide was to defeat the Ottoman Empire, which finally happened in 1918, which led him to argue that Balakian was being too glib in asserting that the United States could have done more to stop the genocide.

Legacy
In 2013, the American scholar Jerry Sigman wrote it is widely asserted today that if more attention had been paid to the Armenian Genocide in World War One, then the Shoah in World War Two would have been prevented. Sigman wrote that the Bulgarian Horrors of 1876, when the Ottomans repressed an uprising in Bulgaria by unleashing the bashi-bazouks (a collection of irregulars who followed the Ottoman Army on the campaigns) together with Kurdish tribesmen on the hapless Bulgarians, received a massive amount of media attention in both the United States and Europe at the time, but the only power that took action was Russia, which belatedly declared war on the Ottoman Empire in 1877, after various international conferences failed to stop the violence. Sigman described the impasse created in Britain with the Liberals under William Gladstone denouncing the Bulgarian Horrors while the Conservative prime minister Benjamin Disraeli justified the Bulgarian Horrors as something the Bulgarians brought down on themselves by revolting against the Ottoman Empire as creating the template for Western responses for genocide and atrocities in general. Sigman wrote that for Disraeli the most important thing to support the Ottoman Empire as a bulwark against Russia, which led his government to place realpolitik ahead of morality, which he argued was all typical of Western responses to atrocities in the 20th century.

Sigman further noted that the Armenian genocide was not ignored at the time, noting that books such as The Burning Tigris had overwhelming established that the American media did not ignore the subject at the time, and instead on the contrary provided saturation coverage of the genocide. Sigman wrote that despite all of the media coverage of the Armenian genocide, it failed to stop the Shoah , leading him to conclude: "Based on the information provided, it is clear that the Jewish Holocaust would have occurred regardless, as it happened in spite of the massive amounts of publicity about the Armenian Genocide that saturated the U.S. and Western European presses." Sigman noted that more recently that the Rwandan genocide of 1994 also received saturation coverage in the American and European media, and unlike the Armenian genocide was broadcast live as various television crews recorded the killings first-hand, and yet the world still did nothing. Sigman argued that the issue was not knowledge of genocide as it is commonly claimed, but rather the willingness to act against genocide, which he noted has been mostly lacking.

References

Books and articles

2003 non-fiction books
HarperCollins books
History books about the Armenian genocide