[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hunter Mountain (ski area)

became the first ski area in the world to feature snow-making on 100 percent of its trails.

December 1983 saw the opening of the Sushi Bar in the Summit Lounge. In the summer of 1987, The SnowLite Express Quad was built along with the West Wing and CopperTree Restaurant addition to the base lodge.

In 1989, Hunter became the first area in the U.S. to install an automated snow-making system. The system installed on Racer's Edge by York International was and still is operated remotely from the Upper Shop. This year also saw the completion of the first lift side condominiums. Construction and development continued into the '90s, with lifts, trails, and shops added to the complex. During summer 2010, the resort acknowledged the need to replace the aging AA- Snowlite Express and decided that a high-speed six-person chairlift from Leitner-Poma would be the replacement. It was completed by opening day for the 2010–11 season. Also new to the season were the Mid-Mountain Tour and the Adventure Tower, operated by Zipline New York. 150 new snow guns were also added for the 2010–11 season. The summer of 2011 also saw some major changes, including another 150 new snow guns and miscellaneous improvements to the Empire Park terrain parks. The biggest improvement was the installation of a new high-speed quad on the west side to replace the Z and Y lifts. The new lift, named the Zephyr Express, was the former AA- Snowlite Express, which had undergone extensive renovations and new station designs.

The original owner Orville Slutzky died on April 18, 2013, at the age of 96. Hunter Mountain operated for a few more family-owned years.

In late November 2015, it was announced that Peak Resorts would acquire Hunter Mountain, ending the 50+ year run of the original owners.  The 36 million dollar transaction was completed by the end of the year.

On April 5, 2018, the Hunter North Expansion was announced.  It includes 9 new runs, consisting of 5 trails and 4 glades, a new high-speed six-person chairlift located below the Belt Parkway, and Way Out trails covers approximately 1,000 vertical feet. The expansion increased Hunter Mountain's skiable acreage by 33 percent, and also adds an entirely new entrance and parking lot with space for up to 250 more vehicles. Construction on the expansion, which officially began on April 16, 2018, was completed as of Christmas Eve, December 24, 2018, and was opened to the public with a ribbon-cutting ceremony and grand opening at 8:30 am the very same morning. As of its debut, Hunter Mountain's increase in acreage and terrain was reported as the largest ski resort expansion on the east coast of the United States in over 15 years. The addition of a second high-speed six-passenger chairlift, the Northern Express, makes Hunter Mountain the only ski resort in New York State to feature two 6-passenger chairlifts. In the first two months of operation, three skiers died on new trails in the expansion area.

 During July 2019 Peak Resorts was acquired by Vail Resorts, the transaction closed on September 24, 2019. The 2019-20 season enabled Hunter to accept Epic Passes, with the 2020-21 season having RFID cards being checked by handheld scanners.

Lifts
 Hunter Mountain has 10 chairlifts, and 2 magic carpets.

Snowmaking 
 1967: Hunter became the first area in the world to feature summit to base snowmaking
 1980: First area to achieve 100% snowmaking coverage
 2006: Over 1,100 snow machines installed. Most of the snowguns are mounted on towers to ensure the maximum amount of "air time" for falling snow to freeze. Hunter has enough air and water available to run half of the snowmaking arsenal at once under marginal snowmaking conditions.
 2014: New pumping system added.
 2015: Automated snowmaking added to Hellgate, 7th Avenue, Kennedy Drive, and Fifth Avenue, automating a full top-to-bottom run.  Previously, only Racer's Edge had automated snowmaking.  New air compressor replaced original 60+ year old system.

Grooming 

Hunter Mountain's grooming fleet consists of four LMC 4700s and three Pisten Bully Edges for normal grooming operations, in addition to a PB300 Winch Cat for grooming steeper slopes. A Pisten Bully (Snowcat) Park Bully and Pipe Magician used in the Empire Park and Half Pipe round out Hunter's grooming fleet. Hunter also has one LMC 3900 for use in the Snowtubing park.

Each grooming machine is equipped with flexible roto-tillers which produce a more consistent, smooth surface than straight tillers. The concept of the flex tiller originated at Hunter Mountain and was realized through a joint effort between LMC and Hunter Mountain. Flexible tillers are now used worldwide. Hunter still owns and operates the first two-piece and three-piece snow tillers ever produced, as well as the only four-piece tiller ever made.

Competition issues