[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hannes Trautloft

isegesellschaft Union (Union Travel Association), the volunteers travel aboard the SS Usaramo, a passenger ship of the Woermann-Linie from Hamburg to Cádiz on 31 July. The Usaramo also transported the equipment and weapons, including six disassembled and boxed Heinkel He 51 biplane fighter aircraft.

The ship arrived in Cádiz on 7 August 1936 and the men then travelled by train to Seville. At Tablada airfield, the pilots assisted in reassembling the He-51 fighters, the first of which becoming operational on 10 August. On 25 August, during the Nationalist advance on Madrid, Trautloft and two other German pilots flew their first combat mission in Spain. In the vicinity of Madrid, the Germans spotted a flight of three Republican Bréguet 19 light bombers and reconnaissance aircraft. Trautloft attacked one of the Republican aircraft, shooting it down near the village of Colmenar Viejo. This claim may have been the first aerial victory by a German pilot in Spain. Five days later, shortly after claiming a Potez 540 aircraft, Trautloft was himself shot down by a Dewoitine D.372, forcing him to bail out over Nationalist-held territory.

Following German recognition of Francisco Franco's government on 30 September, German efforts in Spain were reorganized and expanded, and the contingent of German forces was named Condor Legion by Hermann Göring. By October, the Condor Legion was augmented, receiving more equipment and men. This made it possible to split the fighter force in two, with Trautloft leading the detachment sent to Léon airfield. As the war escalated, the Soviet Union sent better planes to aid the Republicans. Among these were the Polikarpov I-15 and Polikarpov I-16 fighter aircraft, outclassing the German He-51s. By mid-November, the fighter force had increased and the Jagdgruppe 88 was created. In December, Versuchsjagdgruppe 88, an experimental fighter group for testing new aircraft under operational conditions was created at Tablada. Trautloft was chosen as one of the pilots to test the then new Messerschmitt Bf 109. Trautloft had this aircraft personalized with the "Green Heart" of Thuringia. He wrote several recommendations on how to improve the design and combat operations of the Bf 109. On 2 March 1937, Trautloft who had claimed five aerial victories, left Spain and returned to Germany.

In 1937, Trautloft participated in the 4th international flight meeting held at the Dübendorf military airfield, Switzerland from 23 July to 1 August. Trautloft, Hauptmann Werner Restemeier and Oberleutnant Fritz Schleif, flying a flight of three BF 109 B-1s and B-2 took first place in the category Alpine flight.

On 15 March 1937, Trautloft was transferred and appointed Staffelkapitän (squadron leader) of 1. Staffel of Jagdgeschwader 135 (JG 135—135th Fighter Wing). This squadron was subordinated to I. Gruppe of JG 135 which had just been created on 15 March and was commanded by Major Max Ibel. Trautloft served in this capacity until 1 July 1938 when he was transferred to command the newly created 12. Staffel of Jagdgeschwader 132 (JG 132—132nd Fighter Wing), a squadron of IV. Gruppe headed by Oberstleutnant Theo Osterkamp. This Staffel was reassigned to 2. Staffel of Jagdgeschwader 331 (JG 331—331st Fighter Wing) on 3 November. With this unit, Trautloft participated in the German occupation of Czechoslovakia in March 1939. On 1 May, the squadron was again renamed, becoming 2. Staffel of Jagdgeschwader 77 (JG 77—77th Fighter Wing). In 1939, Trautloft published his Spanish War diaries named  [As a Fighter Pilot in Spain] with a foreword by Ernst Udet.

World War II
World War II in Europe had begun on Friday 1 September 1939 when German forces invaded Poland. In preparation for the invasion in end-August 1939, I. Gruppe of JG 77, to which the 2. Staffel was subordinated, had been moved from Breslau-Schöngarten to an airfield at Juliusburg, present-day Dobroszyce. The Gruppe operated over the left flank of Army Group South, supporting the 8th Army advance into Poland. Its main task was flying combat air patrols but had relatively little enemy contact, claiming three aerial victories, including one by Trautloft. On 5 September, Trautloft was credited with the destruction of a PZL.23 Karaś bomber near Warta,  northwest of Sieradz.