[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hannes Trautloft

the 8th Army advance into Poland. Its main task was flying combat air patrols but had relatively little enemy contact, claiming three aerial victories, including one by Trautloft. On 5 September, Trautloft was credited with the destruction of a PZL.23 Karaś bomber near Warta,  northwest of Sieradz.

On 20 September, Trautloft was promoted to Hauptmann (captain) and appointed Gruppenkommandeur (group commander) of I. Gruppe of Jagdgeschwader 20 (JG 20—20th Fighter Wing) on 23 September. At the time of his posting to JG 20, the Gruppe had already been withdrawn from Poland and was based at Brandenburg-Briest. Subordinated to the Stab (headquarters unit) of Jagdgeschwader 2 "Richthofen" (JG 2—2nd Fighter Wing), I./JG 20 flew fighter protection over central Germany. On 6 November, the Gruppe was moved to Döberitz where it remained until 21 February 1940. That day, I./JG 20 was ordered to Bönninghardt and placed under the control of the Stab of Jagdgeschwader 51 (JG 51—51st Fighter Wing). There, the Gruppe patrolled Germany's western border during the "Phoney War" period of World War II.

Battle of France
Trautloft led I. Gruppe of JG 20 during the Battle of France which began on 10 May 1940. At the beginning of the campaign, I. Gruppe was still based at Bönninghardt and subordinated to JG 51. The Gruppes area of operation was the Netherlands and northeastern Belgium, flying fighter escort missions for the bombers. On 16 May, the Gruppe was ordered to move to Eindhoven airfield where it remained until 20 May when it relocated to an airfield at Hoogerheide. From Hoogerheide, I. Gruppe initially flew missions to Bruges and on 24 May, the area of operations shifted towards Dunkirk and Calais. On the morning of 29 May, I./JG 20 moved further west to an airfield at Sint-Denijs-Westrem. That evening, Trautloft claimed a Royal Air Force (RAF) Supermarine Spitfire shot down southeast of Dunkirk. Two days later, Trautloft claimed another Spitfire during the Battle of Dunkirk. In preparation for Operation Paula on 3 June, I./JG 20 was ordered to Vitry-En-Artois and flew escort missions in the afternoon. It was then ordered back to Sint-Denijs-Westrem before moving to Saint-Omer to support Fall Rot, the second phase of the conquest of France.

Supporting Army Group B, the Gruppe advanced to Estrées-lès-Crécy on 8 June and claimed its last aerial victory of the Battle of France on 13 June. The next day, I./JG 20 moved to an airfield southeast of Rouen and to Vouziers on 20 June. On 22 June, I./JG 20 returned to Saint-Omer where it patrolled the French coast on the English Channel. In total, I. Gruppe of JG 20 under Trautloft's command claimed 35 aerial victories during the Battle of France, losing five pilots killed in action, two were taken prisoner of war and three were wounded. In addition, ten Bf 109s were lost in combat. Following the armistice of 22 June 1940, the Battle of France ended on 25 June. By this date, the official allotted strength of I./JG 20 had been reduced to 60%.

Battle of Britain and Balkans campaign
On 4 July, I./JG 20 was officially integrated into JG 51 becoming its III. Gruppe. The end of the Battle of France marked the beginning of the Battle of Britain. The Gruppe received new aircraft during the second half of July, bringing its strength nearly to its allotment. On 19 July, III. Gruppe claimed the destruction of eleven Boulton Paul Defiant interceptor aircraft in aerial combat south of Folkestone, including one claim by Trautloft. According to British records, No. 141 Squadron lost six aircraft in this encounter. Trautloft claimed his last aerial victory with JG 51 on 8 August. That day, the Gruppe claimed five victories over RAF fighters, including a Spitfire near Dungeness by Trautloft.

In late August it was becoming apparent to the Oberkommando der Wehrmacht (German High Command) that the Battle of Britain was not going as planned. A frustrated Göring relieved several Geschwaderkommodore (wing commander) of their commands, and appointed younger, more aggressive men in their place. On 21 August the Luftwaffe communicated and continued with the changes which had started in June when Falck had been tasked with the creation of Nachtjagdgeschwader 1 (NJG 1—1st Night Fighter Wing). Lützow took command of Jagdgeschwader 3 (JG 3—3rd Fighter Wing), Adolf Galland was given command of Jagdgeschwader 26 "Schlageter" (JG 26—26th Fighter Wing), Werner Mölders was given command of JG 51, and Trautloft took over Jagdgeschwader 54 (JG 54—54th Fighter Wing) from Martin Mettig.