[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Abram Chayes

shed scholar, advocate for the rights of sovereign nations and the protection of the global environment, [and] beloved mentor to generations of Harvard Law students."  The Law School celebrated his career with two days of panels and events concerning issues in international law on April 23–24, 1999.

Abram Chayes was widely celebrated as “a wonderfully gregarious man” who, throughout his tenure at Harvard Law School, always “could be counted upon to greet the newest faculty recruits with genuine ebullience, curiosity and good-will.” He was also popular with students; one of his traditions as a teacher that as much appreciated and long remembered by his law school students was to read aloud in his delightfully raspy voice the opening pages of Bleak House by Charles Dickens at the beginning of the last class of the semester in his first-year course on Civil Procedure.  His abundant good faith and zest for life spilled over into his intellectual endeavors, allowing him to foster a new way of thinking about the international law and the way it impacts world affairs.

Personal life 

Abram Chayes married Antonia (Toni) Handler on December 24, 1947; they had five children, including journalist Sarah Chayes as well as Eve, Gayle, Lincoln, and Angelica Chayes. Antonia Handler Chayes served as Undersecretary of the Air Force in the Carter Administration, and is a current Professor of Practice of International Politics and Law at The Fletcher School, Tufts University.

Death 
Chayes died on April 16, 2000, at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston at the age of 77 of pancreatic cancer.

Selected writings 

 The Cuban Missile Crisis: International Crisis and the Role of Law (Oxford University Press 1974; second edition, 1987).
 The International Legal Process (Little, Brown, 1968, 1969) (with T. Ehrlich and A. Lowenfeld).
 The New Sovereignty: Compliance with International Regulatory Agreements (Harvard University Press, 1996 and 1998) (with Antonia Handler Chayes).

See also 
 List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States (Seat 2)

References

Further reading 
 Pearson, Richard.  "Abram Chayes, 77, Dies."  Washington Post, April 17, 2000 
 "Abram Chayes, International Law Specialist, Dies at 77."  Harvard Gazette, April 20, 2000. 
 "Abram Chayes, 77, Leading International Law Specialist, Kennedy Administration's Chief International Lawyer, and Felix Frankfurter Professor of Law, Emeritus." Pugwash, April 16, 2000.

See also
 List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States (Seat 2)

External links
 

1922 births
2000 deaths
Connecticut lawyers
Lawyers from Washington, D.C.
American legal writers
American legal scholars
Harvard Law School alumni
Harvard Law School faculty
20th-century American lawyers
20th-century American non-fiction writers
People associated with Covington & Burling
Harvard College alumni
Law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States
United States presidential advisors
Military personnel from Illinois
Kennedy administration personnel
United States Army officers
United States Army personnel of World War II