[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 ICC Champions Trophy

n on the ICC ODI Championship table as well as group opposition in the main stage.

Group stage

Group A

Group B

Knock-out stage

Semi-finals

Final

Tournament statistics
Statistics include performances in preliminary round matches.

Batting

Bowling

Records
Records broken during the tournament:

 Most consecutive defeats, 9, Zimbabwe (carried over from previous tournaments).
 Most consecutive wins: 6, West Indies (carried over from previous tournaments).
 Number of centuries in a tournament: 3, Chris Gayle
 Most runs in a tournament: 474, Gayle
 Most consecutive ducks: 3, Habibul Bashar (carried over from previous tournaments)
 Youngest centurion in a Champions Trophy: Shahriar Nafees, 123 not out, Bangladesh v Zimbabwe, aged 20 years 261 days.
 Highest third wicket partnership: 165, Upul Tharanga and Kumar Sangakkara, Sri Lanka v Zimbabwe at Sardar Patel Stadium, 10 October.
 Highest fifth wicket partnership: 137, Brian Lara and Runako Morton, West Indies v Australia at Brabourne Stadium, 18 October.
 Highest sixth wicket partnership: 131, Mark Boucher and Justin Kemp, South Africa v Pakistan at Punjab Cricket Association Stadium, 27 October.
 Highest seventh wicket partnership: 103, Jacob Oram and Daniel Vettori, New Zealand v Australia at Punjab Cricket Association Stadium, 1 November.
 Best bowling analysis: 9–2–14–6, Farveez Maharoof, Sri Lanka v West Indies, Brabourne Stadium, 14 October.
 First hat-trick: Jerome Taylor v Australia, Brabourne Stadium, 18 October.

Off the field issues
The BCCI, Indian cricket's governing body, made efforts to ensure that this is the last ICC Champions Trophy. They stated that it was a "financial burden" for host nations and that the ICC should host only one international tournament, the World Cup. However, in April, BCCI president Sharad Pawar said that he would "respect the decision" if the ICC unanimously agreed to keep the Champions Trophy on the calendar.

After the bombings in Mumbai in July 2006, there were concerns raised about the security of players, but no team decided to withdraw on these grounds.

Herschelle Gibbs returned to India for the first time in six years; he had refused to tour the country following the match-fixing scandal on the tour of India in 2000, over fears he might be arrested. He eventually agreed to a questioning session with the Delhi police, incriminating several more people in the scandal.

Pakistan's team composition frequently changed; the original captain Inzamam-ul-Haq was suspended following his decision to forfeit the fourth Test of Pakistan's match against England over an umpiring decision. Younis Khan was instated as captain, withdrew himself, then was appointed for the job again. On 16 October, the day before their first match, Pakistan fast bowlers Mohammad Asif and Shoaib Akhtar were sent home following a positive A sample of a drugs test.

Award ceremony controversy
During the Award ceremony after the finals, Ricky Ponting tapped the shoulders of BCCI President  Sharad Pawar and rudely gestured him to hand over the trophy. Soon after the trophy was handed over, Damien Martyn nudged Sharad Pawar off the stage, eager to relish the moment and to pose for the waiting photographers. Former Indian batsman Sunil Gavaskar who was also present on the stage, later disclosed that one of the Australian team members referred to Pawar as "Hiya Buddy."

Although Pawar tried to play down the incident by stating that "it wasn't intentional," some cricketers, including the usually diplomatic Sachin Tendulkar and Nikhil Chopra reacted strongly to this. In Mumbai, a section of NCP workers took to the streets demanding an apology from the Australian cricket team. Chaggan Bhujbal, a NCP leader, said, "This is an insult to a senior leader. We will make a formal complaint to the Australian embassy." 

The BCCI, however, decided not to complain to Cricket Australia officially. However, the issue soon got resolved when Ricky Ponting tended his apology to Pawar.

See also
2004 ICC Champions Trophy
2007 Cricket World Cup

References

External links
ICC Champions Trophy (International Cricket Council)
2006 Champions Trophy, official site
ICC names Champions Trophy venues (Cricinfo, 12 January 2006)
Groups announced for Champions Trophy (Cricinfo, 2 April 2006)
Venues announced, International Cricket Council press release, 27 April 2006
Match Scorecards (Cricinfo), 1 April 2007
Squads (Cricinfo), 1 April 2007

 
ICC Champions Trophy tournaments
Icc Champions Trophy, 2006
International cricket competitions in 2006
Cricket