[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Bilingual Lover

The Bilingual Lover () is a 1993 Spanish film, written and directed by Vicente Aranda and adapted from a novel by Juan Marsé. The film stars Imanol Arias, Ornella Muti and Loles León. The film is a grotesque drama, with some elements of comedy. Set in Barcelona in the 1980s, El Amante Bilingüe takes an ironic approach to Catalan linguistic policies, nationalism and eroticism with a pattern of double identity that was based on elements from the author's life.

Plot
Juan Marés (an anagram of the author's name) is a Catalan man from a humble background, the son of a frustrated zarzuela seamstress and an illusionist known as Fu-Ching. He grew up in Barcelona during the 1950s, dreaming of leaving his poverty behind. In December 1970, he meets his future wife at a photographic exhibit, when he involves himself with a group organizing a four-day hunger strike to protest the verdict of the 1969 show trials in Burgos. There he meets Norma Valenti, the only daughter of a wealthy family of traditional and conservative Catalan background. In spite of economic, social and cultural differences between them, Juan and Norma get married.

Norma works for the department of linguistics of the Generalitat regional government, while Juan (or Joan, his Catalan name) is overwhelmed by the social position acquired through the marriage. There is little use in Marés’ new life for his skills as ventriloquist or accordion player. After five years, the marriage starts to fall apart, when Norma’s real character surfaces. The beautiful Norma is proud and cold, with dark sexual tendencies. She has a special attraction for “xarnegos”, lower-class migrants from other parts of Spain. Norma also has a shoe fetish and makes the men she sleeps with hold up a shoe with their erection. Returning home earlier than expected, Juan finds his wife having sex with a xarnego shoe shiner. Her infidelity revealed, Norma leaves her husband.

Juan retains their apartment in Walden 7, but without his wife's financial support he must eke out a living by playing the accordion and busking for money in the streets of La Rambla. While performing on the streets, he is caught up in a confrontation between a pro-Catalan language group and some Francoist thugs. Juan plays Els Segadors, the national anthem of Catalonia, and the paramilitary extremists throw a Molotov cocktail at him. Disfigured in the explosion and his personality transformed by misfortune, Juan Marés falls deeper into indigence and schizophrenic hallucinations. Obsessed with the happiness he has lost and with the memory of his wife, he encounters Norma while he is performing on the streets, but she fails to recognize him. In disguise, Marés talks to her again during the carnival in Barcelona; only at the end of their talk does he impart a clue to his identity. Another day he telephones her, pretending to need help in the translation of words from Spanish into Catalan.

His hallucinations increasing, a new identity takes shape in his mind: the emphatically non-Catalan Juan Faneca (the author's birth name). Faneca has a strong regional accent, a pencil mustache, dark complexion, sharp sideburns and eye patch. In this role he is a xarnego from Murcia and a childhood friend of Marés, coming back to Barcelona after years supposedly living as a worker in Germany. Disguised as Faneca, Juan seduces his lonely neighbor, Griselda, an Andalusian widow who is embracing everything Catalan to start her new life in Barcelona. Their one-night stand leaves both Juan and Norma disappointed. By then the invented character of Juan Faneca has overtaken Marés, and he continues his life with Griselda.

Production
Spanish director Vicente Aranda became well known in Spain in the 1980s for cinematic adaptations of literary works. He felt a close affinity with novelist Juan Marsé; they had shared similar childhood experiences in their native Barcelona. Aranda had previously adapted two other Marsé novels to the big screen —  La Muchacha de las Bragas de Oro and If They Tell You I Fell — and in 1992 he wanted to make a third adaptation from a Marsé novel. Aranda recalled, 'Juan Marsé sent me the manuscript of the novel El Amante Bilingüe, and I liked it. Andres Vicente Gómez, the producer, was not very eager to take on this project; he considered it too regional, very Catalan. In spite of it all, we made the film.' Gomez says that he and Marsé thought that Mario Camus was the most appropriate director to make the film.

El Amante Bilingüe, a co-production with Italy, had a budget of 164 million pesetas (then about $1.36 million USD or 1.04 million Euros). Shot in Barcelona, it premiered at the Montreal World Film Festival, where it was well received. El Amante Bilingüe was then released in Spain on 1 April 1993.

Cast
 Imanol Arias as Joan Marés/Juan Faneca
 Ornella Muti as Norma Valenti
 Loles León as Griselda
 Javier Bardem as Shoeshiner
 Joan Lluis Bozzo as Valls Verdú
 Blanca Apilánez as Carmen