[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Liu Hulan

om centuries of rule by foreign powers.  In recent history, Chinese political leaders have praised her heroism as the reason why the Chinese Communist Party has risen to take a dominant place in the politics and culture of modern China. 
She is the subject of a 1949 opera, remade in 1954: Liu Hulan.

Influence 
In February 1947, Shanxi Jinsui Daily published the news of Liu Hulan's heroic sacrifice. Liu Hulan's name spread all over North China. At that time, the "Battle Theatre Club" of the 12th Division took Liu Hulan's glorious deeds as its theme, and in more than a month, it created the opera Liu Hulan, which gave the audience a lot of education in each performance.
Six months after Liu Hulan's sacrifice, on August 1, 1947, the Jinsui Branch of the Communist Party of China decided to break the rules (usually until he was 18 years old) and recognize Liu Hulan as a full member of the Communist Party of China.
After the liberation of the whole country, Liu Hulan's deeds were written into books, adapted into plays, movies and TV plays, and her former village was changed to "Liu Hulan Village".
In 1956, the Liu Hulan Memorial Hall was established in Wenshui County, Shanxi Province. The Martyrs'Cemetery was built in Yunzhou West Village, the hometown of the martyrs. The Yongzhi Memorial was commemorated. The remains of Liu Hulan were moved to the cemetery separately. With a total floor area of more than 60,000 square meters, it is composed of square, monument, Liu Hulan's life story exhibition room, film and television room, calligraphy and painting room, seven Martyrs Memorial Hall and group sculptures, mausoleum, Liu Hulan statue, monument pavilion, martyr's original site, symmetrically distributed with monuments and mausoleums as the central axis, and contains 74 martyr relics.
On January 31, 1977, China issued a set of stamps commemorating the 30th anniversary of Liu Hulan's heroic inauguration in commemoration of Comrade Liu Hulan, the revolutionary martyr.

References 

Hanyu Yueben.  Shangwu Yinshuguan, Beijing: 1972. (Chpt 7, p32)

1932 births
1947 deaths
Chinese spies
Propaganda in China
Executed Chinese women
Executed spies
People executed by the Republic of China by decapitation
20th-century executions by China
Executed Republic of China people
Executed children
People from Lüliang
Chinese communists
Executed people from Shanxi