[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lean Bear

d near Indian territory, but the land reduction and the continued encroachment by white settlers only heightened tensions. The Cheyennes were not ready to forced into the confines of the small reserve, where there were not many buffalo, allocated for them in the treaty.

Meeting in Washington, D.C. 

On March 27, 1863, a delegation of fourteen chiefs of Plains tribes, including Lean Bear, War Bonnet and Standing-in-Water of the Cheyennes,  and two Kiowa women met with President Abraham Lincoln in the East room of the White House. The meeting was called after skirmishes with Native tribes and white settlers created fear that Southern Plains tribes would side with the Confederacy. Lincoln was hoping to persuade Native Nations to either ally with the Union, or pledge neutrality.

Lincoln welcomed the chiefs, explaining that white Americans had conquered an expansive population, territory, and wealth that white Americans had gained. Lean Bear implored the president to stop his white Americans from being violent so that Indians and whites alike could travel across the plains without risk. Lincoln told the chiefs that their Native people were naturally more tempted to violence. He further explained that in order to survive and be prosperous, the Native Americans would have to adopt methods of cultivating the land that were more similar to the way of the whites. Lincoln also requested that the southern Plains Indians remain neutral in the American Civil War, ready to provide peace medals to those that he could reach an agreement with. The chiefs complied, promising to uphold peace treaties and not align with the Confederacy. Lean Bear then made a request to the president to expedite his and the other chiefs' journey home.

Murder of Lean Bear
On May 16, 1864, less than 15 months after meeting Lincoln in Washington, Lean Bear, Black Kettle, and others in the tribe were camping on their buffalo hunting grounds near Ash Creek. The 1st Colorado Regiment, under the command of Lieutenant George Eayre, approached the group. Although there had been a fight around a month previous involving Cheyenne Dog Soldiers at Fremont's Orchard, Lean Bear was confident that the violence wouldn't be associated with his peaceful tribe and was not concerned as the soldiers got closer. Positive that this would be a peaceful encounter, Lean Bear went alone to meet the militia to show his peaceful intentions. On his chest, Lean Bear proudly wore his peace medal that he had received on his trip to Washington D.C. in 1863. In his hand, he held an official document signed by President Lincoln stating that he was peaceful and friendly with whites. What Lean Bear did not realize was that Eayre's troops were operating under orders from Colonel John M. Chivington to "kill Cheyennes whenever and wherever found." Eayre ordered his men to shoot Lean Bear, who was wounded and fell off his horse. He was then shot repeatedly by the soldiers as they rode past his body on the ground.

The troops rode on to attack other Cheyennes at the camp, killing at least one more warrior and wounding many others at the camp. Cheyenne warriors armed themselves and mounted their horses, ready to retaliate. Black Kettle rode out to de-escalate the situation, stopping any further violence, and the American troops retreated to Fort Larned.

Aftermath of the killing
Rising tensions caused by the death of Lean Bear, along with Eayre's other Indian camp raids, is heavily attributed to the Sand Creek Massacre that occurred six months later. Lean Bear's brother, Bull Bear, was livid after the killing and felt compelled to violence against the white men, a desire he had never felt before. Bull Bear remarked that his brother had died while trying to keep peace with the settlers, and he expected to die in the same way. He called for war but was shot down at a meeting with Wynkoop, the Fort Lyon Commander, on September 10, 1864. Despite Black Kettle's best efforts to keep the peace, attacks by Native warriors in the Southern Plains skyrocketed as the vengeful tribes burned ranches and trails, kidnapping settlers and their livestock. Over time, the Dog Soldiers' popularity rose, and they overrode Black Kettle's efforts to resist war. The Governor of Colorado issued a proclamation giving each citizen permission and encouragement to retaliate by killing any Indians and seek compensation for stolen property.

Legacy
There are no confirmed images of Lean Bear. There are only images and paintings of the full room in 1863 when the delegation went to meet president Lincoln. There are many differing accounts on the identities of each chief in the image. In common usage by sources about Lean Bear is an image of a Cheyenne peace chief who is typically believed to be Lean Bear.

Parts of Lean Bear's life are described in the book of folklore, By Cheyenne Campfires, compiled by George Bird Grinnell.

Notes

References
 Ricky, Donald B. "Indians of Nebraska. Somerset Publishers, 2007. .