[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1992 Montenegrin independence referendum

The 1992 Montenegrin independence referendum was the first referendum regarding Montenegrin independence, held on 1 March 1992 in SR Montenegro, a constituent republic of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.

The referendum was the outcome of Montenegrin President Momir Bulatović's decision to agree to the terms set by Lord Carrington which were to transform Yugoslavia into a loose association of independent states that would have the status of subjects under international law. Bulatović's decision angered his ally, the Serbian President Slobodan Milošević and the Serbian leadership, who added an amendment to the Carrington Plan that would allow states that did not wish to secede from Yugoslavia to establish a successor state.

421,549 citizens were registered voters. The question put to the electorate was, roughly translated:

Are you in favor of Montenegro, as a sovereign republic, continuing to live in a common state - Yugoslavia, fully equal to other republics that wish the same? 

The electorate chose to remain within Yugoslavia. 95.96% of voters, which is 63.17% of the entire electorate, voted Yes, with a voter turnout of 66.04%.

As a result of this referendum, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, consisting of two former constituent republics of the SFR Yugoslavia, Serbia and Montenegro, was established on 27 April 1992.

Background 
In early October 1991, Montenegrin forces and the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) began the Siege of Dubrovnik. The JNA's bombardment of Dubrovnik, including that of the Old Town — a UNESCO World Heritage Site — provoked international condemnation, and became a public relations disaster for Serbia and Montenegro, contributing to their diplomatic and economic isolation, as well as proving to be detrimental to Montenegro's internal stability and inter-ethnic relations within the republic.

Seeking a way out of the crisis, Montenegrin President Momir Bulatović took a significant political gamble, which put him at odds both with his political mentors in Belgrade, Serbian nationalists in Montenegro, as well as many people in his own party. As the conflict in Croatia intensified, the European Community organized a peace conference on Yugoslavia in the Hague chaired by Lord Carrington, the former British Foreign Secretary who had served in Margaret Thatcher’s first cabinet. The Carrington Plan envisaged a loose association of independent states that would have the status of subjects under international law.

While uniformity with the Serbian line was anticipated from the Montenegrin side, Bulatović unexpectedly agreed to the terms of the Carrington Plan during an overnight session of the Montenegrin parliament on 17 October 1991. He agreed to sign a draft of the plan and Borisav Jović was alerted the following day. According to Jović, Bulatović had the support of the then Italian Foreign Minister Gianni De Michelis.

During the 24–25 October parliamentary sessions, the agreement was essentially ratified. However, the People's Party called for an emergency session of parliament, during which reactions to the plan were overwhelmingly negative. Bulatović and Prime Minister Milo Đukanović, who supported him during the session, were decried as traitors by a series of speakers including Branko Kostić, as well as Serbian state media and Slobodan Milošević. Unionist parties held demonstrations outside the parliament building.

Bulatović and Đukanović were called to Belgrade to attend a series of meetings with the Serbian leadership. Milošević tried to circumvent the perceived treason from the Montenegrin leadership by inserting a clause into the Carrington Plan that would allow any republic that wished to remain a part of Yugoslavia to do so. Faced with no consensus in Montenegro, the Montenegrin leadership backed down and agreed to Milošević's proposal. On 30 October 1991, Serbia and Montenegro proposed an amendment to the Carrington Plan that would allow states that did not wish to secede from Yugoslavia to establish a successor state. A referendum on the establishment of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which claimed legitimate continuity of the SFRY, would take place in Montenegro in March 1992.

Campaign and conduct 
In the run-up to the referendum, the two ruling parties in Serbia and Montenegro negotiated on the formation and distribution of power in the new Yugoslavia, left with around 40% of the territory and population of the previous country. Montenegrin President Momir Bulatović envisaged a confederal model with the common state possessing a single market, single currency, unitary monetary policy, a common foreign policy, albeit one that would permit separate consular representations, and a joint defense system that would allow some degree of autonomy.