[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dermot O'Hurley

Dermot O'Hurley (c. 1530 – 19 or 20 June 1584)—also Dermod or Dermond O'Hurley: —was the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Cashel during the Tudor conquest of Ireland. After being held and tortured in Dublin Castle, Archbishop O'Hurley was put to death, officially for high treason, but in reality as part of the religious persecution of the Catholic Church in Ireland by Queen Elizabeth I and her officials. He is one of the most celebrated of the 24 formally recognized Irish Catholic Martyrs, and was beatified by Pope John Paul II on 27 September 1992.

Early life
O'Hurley was born into the Gaelic nobility of Ireland, either in or near Emly, County Tipperary, around the year 1530. His father, William, was the O'Hurley clan's Chief of the Name and Bailiff of Emly, with duties similar to a Tacksman, for James FitzGerald, 14th Earl of Desmond. Dermot's mother was Honora Ni Brien, a descendant of the O'Brien dynasty of Thomond. Both sides of the Archbishop's family claimed descent from the royal derbhfine of the  Dál gCais, one of the most powerful Irish clans in the history of Munster or of Gaelic Ireland. The future Archbishop had one sister named Honora Ni Hurley. The "William Oge O'Hurley" listed among the Desmond rebels to be pardoned is believed to have been the Archbishop's brother. He also had much younger brother named Andrew O'Hurley, whom, as of 1642, was over 80 years old, blind, paralyzed, and living in Portugal.

The future Archbishop is believed to have received his early education at a Cathedral school overseen by his kinsman, Bishop Thomas O'Hurley, in the monastery founded by Saint Ailbe of Emly. The O'Hurley family later moved to Lickadoon Castle, Ballyneety, County Limerick, where O'Hurley was educated by tutors and then sent to Flemish Brabant to study at the University of Leuven. In 1551 he graduated with a Master of Arts degree, then a doctorate of Law and was appointed a professor of philosophy in one of that university's greater colleges, where he remained for 15 years and acquired a reputation for his commentaries on Aristotle. In 1574 he was appointed a professor of canon and civil law in the Faculty of Law of Reims University by Louis de Guise, at which he spent 4 years.

Fugitive archbishop
In 1570 Pope Pius V excommunicated Queen Elizabeth I of England in the papal bull Regnans in Excelsis. This led to the Second Desmond Rebellion in 1579–83, which was still in progress when O'Hurley was required to travel to Ireland. On 11 September 1581, while still a layman, he was appointed Archbishop of Cashel by Pope Gregory XIII. He was ordained and consecrated and set out on his mission in 1583. Through its elaborate spy system, the government in Dublin Castle had immediate knowledge of Dermot's appointment to the See of Cashel, and Elizabeth's spies and priest hunters were soon on his tracks. 

Although it was later claimed by Lord Justices Adam Loftus and Henry Wallop in their letters to Sir Francis Walsingham that Archbishop O'Hurley had been employed by the Roman Inquisition, this is not sustainable by other evidence. For example, a 33-line work of praise poetry in Renaissance Latin, which was composed to celebrate Dermot O'Hurley's promotion to the Episcopate, confirms that he had always been merely a theology professor.

O'Hurley's voyage was fraught with danger because of the state of war between the Pope and England, but he accepted the risks involved and arranged for a sea captain from Drogheda to smuggle him from the French port of Le Croisic into Ireland. Archbishop O'Hurley disembarked upon Holmpatrick Strand in what is now Skerries, County Dublin in the autumn of 1583 and was met by a priest named Fr. John Dillon, who accompanied him to Drogheda, where they lodged in a hostelry.

Archbishop O'Hurley's letters, which had been sent via a different ship, were intercepted by English pirates, who handed the letters over to the Lord Justices in Dublin.

After being advised by a resident of Drogheda that Lord Justices Loftus and Wallop already knew their location, Archbishop O'Hurley and Fr. Dillon decided to leave for Slane Castle, where they were concealed by Thomas Fleming, 10th Baron Slane, at one point inside a priest hole. Archbishop O'Hurley also covertly travelled from Slane Castle to Cavan to visit with some fellow priests whom he had known while living in Catholic Europe. At the time, Cavan town and County Cavan was the territory of the Clan O'Reilly. However, O'Hurley was recognised during a visit to Slane Castle by the Baron's first cousin, Lord Chief Justice Sir Robert Dillon.