[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

ed soldiers.

Brazil
There are programmed (and one already have happened) two demonstrations in São Paulo against Israel.

Canada

In Montreal, Canadians protested against Israel and against Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper near the Israeli consulate, while supporters of Israel praised Harper.

In Montreal, 22 July 2006, an estimated 1,000 protesters marched along west Sainte-Catherine Street then south on Jeanne-Mance before rallying outside Complèxe Léo-Parizeau on boulevard René-Lévesque.  Politicians participating included Maria Mourani and Francine Lalonde of the Bloc Québécois.  La Presse gave the story front page coverage.

Montreal, 30 July 2006, an estimated 3,000 protesters gathered in Dorchester Square outside the Israeli Consulate at boulevard René-Lévesque and rue Peel.
Demonstrators marched north on Peel, east on Sainte-Catherine, north on Mansfield, west on de Maisoneuve then south on Peel, returning to the starting point.
What had been planned as a vigil became a much larger event with the news of the Qana attack the day before.  Emotions were quite raw, and while the demonstration was peaceful, some protesters openly supported Hezbollah.

Montreal, 6 August 2006 an estimated 15,000 protesters assembled at Parc Lafontaine at 13h00.  At 14h00 they marched north on rue de la Roche, west on avenue du Mont Royal, south on rue Saint-Denis and finally west on boulevard René-Lévesque.  March halted outside the federal government building, Complèxe Léo-Parizeau at approximately 16h00.  Politicians participating in the protest included Gilles Duceppe, leader of Bloc Québécois, André Boisclair, leader of Parti Québécois, Liberal MP Denis Coderre and Quebec Green Party chief Scott McKay.  A group of Neturei Karta Orthodox Jews, came from New York City to attend the protest.  Protest was peaceful, police presence was almost exclusively for traffic control.

Despite the protests, a poll of Canadians published in the 25 July edition of the National Post shows that support among Canadians (bar Quebec) is greatly on the side of Israel; with 64% stating that "Israel's action was either somewhat or completely justified". In all provinces except Quebec support was greater than 50%, with British Columbia, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Alberta and Ontario having the highest support for Israel (in that order). When asked which side of the conflict should make a major compromise in order to have a ceasefire, 63% of Canadians said it was "those who kidnapped the Israeli soldiers."

A Strategic Counsel poll for CTV and The Globe and Mail, published 1 August 2006, showed that the Harper government's open support of Israel is opposed by 45% of the Canadian public, while 32% support it.  Again in Quebec opposition was strongest, 63% being opposed to the government's position, while 17% support it.  On the question of Canadian neutrality, 77% of Canadians stated Canada should remain neutral, 16% stated Canada should support Israel and 1% stated Canada should support Hezbollah.

Denmark
On 21 July 2006, a pro-Israel demonstration was held on the central square of Copenhagen, with the theme "Secure borders for everybody". A Gallup poll on 5 August, showed an overwhelming Danish support for the Israeli side of the conflict, with 48% saying they had most sympathy for Israel while the "Shia Muslim militia" only found support by 7%

Egypt
On 28 July it was reported that around 1,000 demonstrators gathered in Cairo to protest.  Waving copies of the Qur'an chanted the crowd was heard to chant: "O Sunni, O Shia, let's fight the Jews," and "the Jews and the Americans are killing our brothers in Lebanon."  The protest had been organised by the Muslim Brotherhood.

Finland
On 20 August around 2,800 people rallied in the Finnish capital of Helsinki to show their support for Israel.

Germany
An anti-American/anti-Israel/anti-capitalist rally took place in Berlin.

A pro-Israel rally took place in Düsseldorf.

Iceland
Approximately 150 people gathered at Austurvöllur square outside the Alþingi to protest against Israeli action in Lebanon on 13 July.

India
While the overall attitude of Indian citizenry regarding the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict has been noncommital, there is a growing circle of Indian bloggers and opinion page writers who express support for Israel on this issue. They compare Israel's response with the Indian Government's response to the 11 July 2006 Mumbai train bombings and feel that the reaction has been too soft. Many wish for the same level response as Israel's retaliation towards Hezbollah. In particular, an Indian blogger writes:
"The unanimity, determination and the promptness involved in their arriving at the decision to root out Hizbollah ... deserves accolades!! [It is the] sharpest of contrasts to the callousness of Indian polity."