[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Uranate

pirical formulas K2UO4, K2U2O7 and K2U4O13. The uranate structures in these compounds differ in the way the UOx structural units are linked together.

Properties and uses

Yellowcake is produced in the separation of uranium from other elements, by adding alkali to a solution containing uranyl salts.

When the alkali used is ammonia, so-called ammonium diuranate, known in the industry as ADU, is the main constituent of yellowcake. The exact composition of the precipitate depends to some extent on the conditions and anions that are present and the formula (NH4)2U2O7, is only an approximation. The precipitates obtained on addition of ammonia to uranyl nitrate solution under different conditions of temperature and final pH, when dried, were considered as loosely bound compounds with an ammonia/uranium ratio of 0.37 containing varying amounts of water and ammonium nitrate. In other studies it was found to approximate to the gross formulas 3UO3·NH3·5H2O, 

The asymmetric stretching frequency of the uranyl ion was found to decrease with increasing NH4+ content. This decrease is continuous and no band splitting was observed, indicating that the ammonium uranate system is homogeneous and continuous.

ADU is an intermediate in the production of uranium oxides to be used as nuclear fuel; it is converted directly into an oxide by heating. β-UO3 is produced at about 350 °C and U3O8 is obtained at higher temperatures. When the alkali used is sodium hydroxide, so-called sodium diuranate, SDU, is produced. This can also be converted into an oxide. Another choice of alkali is magnesium oxide, making magnesium diuranate, known as MDU.

Oxides and uranates of uranium(VI) have been used in the past as yellow ceramic glazes as in Fiesta and to make yellow-green uranium glass. Both of these applications are abandoned due to concern regarding radioactivity of the uranium. Uranates are important in radioactive waste management.

Uranium(V)

Several series of uranates(V) have been characterized. Compounds with the formula MIUO3 have a perovskite structure. Compounds MI3UO4 have a defect rock-salt structure. MI7UO6 structures are based on a hexagonally close-packed array of oxygen atoms. In all cases the uranium is at the centre of an octahedron of oxygen atoms. Also MIIIUO4 have been recently synthesized and characterized (MIII=Bi, Fe, Cr etc.).  Few other compounds of uranium(V) are stable.

Uranium(IV)

Barium uranate, BaUO3, is made from barium oxide and uranium dioxide in an atmosphere that contains absolutely no oxygen. It has a cubic crystal structure (space group Pmm).

References

Further reading

Uranates