[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# East Dundry

East Dundry is a south-facing hamlet some 160 metres above sea level in a sheltered valley of Dundry Hill just south of Bristol, England. The hamlet is in the parish of Dundry and about two kilometres east of its village church. The iron-age Maes Knoll tump (2.5 kilometres to the east) and tumuli (in the field just north-east of North Hill Farm) are evidence of long occupation of the valley.

Wansdyke, strip lynchets
East Dundry's northern slope facing Bristol has supposedly a continuation westwards from Maes Knoll of the remains of Wansdyke, a series some 31 km-long of early medieval defensive linear earthworks consisting of a ditch and a running embankment from the ditch spoil, with the ditching facing north, to repel invasion from the north.

There are ancient downhill strip lynchets in the large field opposite North Hill Cottage; and mildly sloping ones in the top field opposite The Rookery.

The original settlements probably owed their existence to the quarrying of the local Dundry stone, which is found at Cardiff Castle and was used in mediaeval Bristol. Nearby Dundry originally had a Roman fort built as part of the local defences against Anglo-Saxon invasions.

The hamlet today has some 16 houses including one active farm (mostly successful breeding turkeys): there were five active farms until the 1950s, two until the 2020s, all mostly supplying milk to Bristol. Most buildings are built from the oolitic limestone quarried locally, probably mostly by the sites of the houses. Two large outcrops of Dundry stone are visible at Spring Farm. Until 1930, the inhabitants were almost entirely farmers and farm workers: gradually since then the hamlet has become a dormitory village for Bristol.

Access, bus service, postal service 
East Dundry Lane in the 1920s was the first to be tarred into the hamlet. Bristol, with its centre only 6 kilometres away, had mains water, electricity, gas, and dial telephones by the 1930s – but the Second World War and its ten years of ensuing austerity stopped all extension of these facilities to places such as East Dundry.

From 1923 until the 1950s there was a frequent Dundry Pioneer bus service from its Dundry terminus on the flat part of the Bristol-Wells road near the chapel at the top of Broad Oak Hill, into the then open-air bus terminus in Prince Street in Bristol via Dundry village, the Hairpin Bend, Bishopsworth, and Bedminster.

Until the 1960s, letters were delivered on bicycles to East Dundry and all Dundry premises. The Dundry Post Office was a few houses south of the Carpenter's Arms pub and its north-side neighbour the smithy, all strategically in Cold Harbour on the Bristol-Wells stage-coach mail road. Later the post office was some 200 metres north west of Dundry church in a house on the north side of the road.

Second World War 
A week or so before war was declared, several London children were evacuated to East Dundry: for instance two were billeted to Spring Farm, two to The Dingle (now called Dingle House) and some to The Rookery.

Later in the war, refugees from the bombing of Bristol stayed for instance in Spring Farm. Two land girls helped in Walnut Farm and two in Spring Farm.

Bombs and shrapnel fell in East Dundry: bombs fell in the bull pen of the then North Hill Farm on 3 January 1941. Incendiary bombs fell in the hamlet, for instance in the farmyard of Spring Farm. Two East Dundry men were responsible in a rota every night as fire watchers for the hamlet.

Electricity 
Negotiations with the Electricity Board started with a meeting in Walnut Farm in 1952, with the installation in 1953 of an 11KV supply from across the valley.

Water supply

Wells
The houses and farms built before about 1890 (and dating back to mediaeval and earlier times) are all geologically close to the division between clay and the higher layer of Dundry hill's oolitic limestone  – this allowed wells to be sunk for them, with a reliable supply. Nearly all old East Dundry have wells.

Hydraulic rams
The farmhouses North Hill Farm and Walnut Farm were built in the late 19th century on the hamlet's higher and flatter land – more suitable than the steeper land of the original farms, such as Spring Farm and the farm that was at the current North Hill Cottage with its large flattish walled-garden that was its farm yard. These two higher farms installed separate hydraulic rams in the late 1800s and were served by them until the late 1950s. The farms needed ample water for their dairy herds prosperously supplying milk to Bristol by horse and cart.></ref>Ch