[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Haseo

. With this newfound "5th Form", Haseo and Kusabira are successful at reviving Ovan, with Kusabira being revealed as the personification of AIDA. Haseo and Ovan to defeat Vegalta with their combined Avatars. Afterwards, the two go on a final quest to remember their old times in the Twilight Brigade.

G.U. related series and adaptations
Haseo has also appeared in the anime television series .hack//Roots, where he is depicted as a new player who is invited to join Ovan's Twilight Brigade and search for a legendary item known as the Key of Twilight. While dealing with a rival guild, TaN, Ovan disappears, and the other members abandon the guild, leaving only Shino and Haseo. When Shino ends up in a coma after being attacked by Tri-Edge, Haseo becomes depressed and seeks revenge. In his quest for power, Haseo meets the AI of The World's creator, Harald Hoerwick, who greatly upgrades Haseo's PC. In the following months, he becomes known as "The Terror of Death" after defeating one hundred player killers, and meets Ovan again, who directs him to Azure Kite. This leads to the events of the .hack//G.U. games as a weakened Haseo continues his journey. An OVA titled .hack//Returner shows Haseo reuniting with his former comrades from G.U. and the Twilight Brigade following the events of the trilogy after receiving an email from the disappeared Ovan.

In the manga adaptation of the games, .hack//G.U.+, Haseo is confronted by Ovan shortly after defeating Azure Kite. When Ovan disappears while awakening the comatose players, the player behind Haseo, Ryou Misaki, temporarily quits The World until he receives an e-mail from Ovan's sister, Aina. He returns to The World to investigate what happened to Ovan, but loses his Avatar after being attacked by Kazumi, a member from CC Corp. As Kazumi tries to use Cubia to control The World, Haseo rejoins G.U. to defeat Kazumi. In the novel series, Haseo learns that he has amnesia and that seven years before the events of .hack//G.U. he was a character named Sora who was left in a coma by Skeith until the monster's defeat. After accepting his past, Haseo gains a new form that replaces his Xth Form.

The 2008 CGI film adaptation of the games, .hack//G.U. Trilogy, shows Haseo healing the AIDA-infected Atoli by combining their PCs. When Ovan leaves Atoli and all the G.U. members in coma, Haseo is consumed by rage and attacks Ovan in the new B-st Form. With help from Atoli's PC, Haseo gains the stronger Xth Form, which he uses to defeat Ovan and save him from dying using his last forces to wake up the comatose players.

Other appearances
In the video game .hack//Link, Haseo's time with the Twilight Brigade and G.U. during Tokio's journey in the 2017 timeline is shown. In 2020, Haseo's PC joins the Twilight Knights with Tokio and the other new members as they prepare for the final battle with a virus-infected Aura, the goddess of The World. In the manga version, Haseo's story is different. His memories have been tampered with to make him believe he is still searching for Tri-Edge to avenge Shino. The .hack//Link Special DVD shows a side story in which Haseo teams up with Asbel from Tales of Graces; both are voiced by Takahiro Sakurai.

In the novel, .hack//Cell, Haseo appears in his quest for Tri-Edge. The .hack//4Koma manga features a series of omakes where Haseo has a rivalry with Kite over who is the best protagonist from the franchise. He is also a playable character in the fighting game .hack//Versus.

Outside the .hack franchise, Haseo's Xth Form outfit has appeared as downloadable content in the video game Tales of Graces F. He also appears in the crossover Project X Zone 2.

Cultural impact

Popularity
Haseo's character and his voice actors have been popular with fans. This has been the case with both the .hack//G.U. games and the CGI film where he ranks as the most popular character. In two other polls held to commemorate the .hack franchise's 10th anniversary Haseo was voted its most popular character. CyberConnect2 noted the character was popular with cosplayers.  Takahiro Sakurai was a nominee in the category Best Leading Actor for his role as Haseo in .hack//Roots for the first Seiyu Awards but lost to fellow Code Geass voice actor Jun Fukuyama who portrayed Lelouch vi Britannia. Lowenthal's performance was also noted as one best from 2017, although he lost to Kyle McCarley who voiced 9S in Nier Automata. Matsuyama noted that thanks to Last Recode, Haseo's popularity has risen with a figure of the 3rd Form being developed. He claimed that the Xth and 5th Form might get their own figures based on their popularity.

An AR contest was also held in Japan involving Haseo in 2022. The company Namco Bandai has inserted an AR model of Haseo into the Styly Mobile app. Bandai Namco has been holding contests in Japan to promote the new Nintendo Switch port of .hack//G.U. Last Recode.