[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Post-war immigration to Australia

and Italy. The qualifications were straightforward: migrants needed to be in sound health and under the age of 45 years. There were initially no skill requirements, although under the White Australia policy, people from mixed-race backgrounds found it very difficult to take advantage of the scheme.

Migration brought large numbers of southern and central Europeans to Australia for the first time. A 1958 government leaflet assured voters that unskilled non-British migrants were needed for "labour on rugged projects ...work which is not generally acceptable to Australians or British workers." The Australian economy stood in sharp contrast to war-ravaged Europe, and newly arrived migrants found employment in a booming manufacturing industry and government assisted programmes such as the Snowy Mountains Scheme. This hydroelectricity and irrigation complex in south-east Australia consisted of sixteen major dams and seven power stations constructed between 1949 and 1974. It remains the largest engineering project undertaken in Australia. Necessitating the employment of 100,000 people from over 30 countries, to many it denotes the birth of multicultural Australia.

In 1955 the one-millionth post-war immigrant arrived in Australia.  Australia's population reached 10 million in 1959, up from 7 million in 1945.

End to the White Australia policy
In 1973, Whitlam government (1972–1975) adopted a completely non-discriminatory immigration policy, effectively putting an end to the White Australia policy.  However, the change occurred in the context of a substantial reduction in the overall migrant intake. This ended the post-war wave of predominantly European immigration which had started three decades before with the end of the Second World War and would make the beginnings of the contemporary wave of predominantly Asian Immigration to Australia which continues to the present day.

International agreements 
Financial assistance was an important element of the post war immigration program and as such there were a number of agreements in place between the Australian government and various governments and international organisations.

 United Kingdom – free or assisted passages.  Immigrants under this scheme became known as Ten Pound Poms.
 Assisted passages for ex-servicemen of the British Empire and the United States.  This scheme was later extended to cover ex-servicemen and members of resistance movements from certain other Allied countries.
 An agreement with the International Refugee Organization (IRO) to settle at least 12,000 displaced people a year from camps in Europe. Australia accepted a disproportionate share of refugees sponsored by IRO in the late 1940s and early 1950s.
 Formal migration agreements, often involving the grant of assisted passage, with the United Kingdom, Malta, the Netherlands, Italy, West Germany, Turkey and Yugoslavia.
 There were also informal migration agreements with a number of other countries including Austria, Greece, Spain, and Belgium.

Timeline

Settler arrivals by top 10 countries of birth

Migrant reception and training centres 

On arrival in Australia, many migrants went to migrant reception and training centres where they learned some English while they looked for a job. The Department of Immigration was responsible for the camps and kept records on camp administration and residents. The migrant reception and training centres were also known as Commonwealth Immigration Camps, migrant hostels, immigration dependants' holding centres, migrant accommodation, or migrant workers' hostels.

Australia's first migrant reception centre opened at Bonegilla, Victoria near Wodonga in December 1947. When the camp closed in 1971, some 300,000 migrants had spent time there.

By 1951, the government had established three migrant reception centres for non-English speaking displaced persons from Europe, and twenty holding centres, principally to house non-working dependants, when the pressure of arrival numbers on the reception centres was too great to keep families together.  The purpose of reception and training centres was to:
provide for general medical examination and x-ray of migrants, issue of necessary clothing, payment of social service benefits, interview to determine employment potential, instruction in English and the Australian way of life generally.

The centres were located throughout Australia (dates are those of post office opening and closing.)

Queensland 

 Stuart
 Wacol
 Yungaba Immigration Centre (known today as Yungaba House)

New South Wales (NSW) 

 Bathurst (1948 to 1952)
 Bradfield Park, now Lindfield
 Chullora, a suburb of Sydney (1 August 1949 to 31 October 1967)
 Greta, near Newcastle (1 June 1949 to 15 January 1960)
 Uranquinty (1 December 1948 to 31 March 1959)