[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Armored Corps (Israel)

The Israeli Armored Corps (, Heil HaShiryon) is a corps of the Israel Defense Forces that, since 1998, has been subordinate to GOC Army Headquarters. The Armored Corps is the principal maneuvering corps, and primarily bases its strength on Main Battle Tanks.

The Armored Corps is the decisive corps in GOC Army Headquarters, and bases its power on a combination of mobility, armor, and firepower. During wars, its primary role on the one hand, to lead the first line of the attacking forces and to clear the area of the enemy. Secondarily, it blocks the armor forces of the enemy and seeks to destroy its tanks and armor. During peacetime, it reinforces the Infantry Corps while it performs security tasks, with the tanks serving as mobile bunkers.

Armored Corps' role 
The Armored Corps are the decisive part of Israel's Ground Forces, the main elements it uses to make crucial blows are Mobility, Durability and Fire Power. The corps mostly operate Main battle tanks but also Mobile Infantry and Mobile Armor support.

In wars there are two objectives that the armored corps are designated to accomplish.

 Lead the way for the infantry in the front line, and help clear the area of enemy troops.
 Block the enemy's armored forces and destroy it.

In times of peace, the armored corps provide support for the infantry corps in the continuous-Security tasks such as prevention of underground activity or intelligence gathering. The Tanks are used as Mobile outposts for the infantry.

Assembly 
The Israeli Armored Corps were assembled during the War of Independence. The corps started from the Armored Service, the Palmach's armored unit, that has been established on February 24, 1948. Yitzhak Sade was appointed as the head of the unit. On May 24 of the same year the first armored brigade of the IDF was announced, The 8th Brigade. The personnel were recruited from various places such as the British army and other allied countries' militaries , members of the Haganah, the Palmach, and other resistance movements. The corps consisted of ten obsolete Hotchkiss tanks from France, two Cromwell tanks stolen from the British Army, and a single Sherman tank also stolen from the British Army. Later in the war, additional Sherman tanks were purchased from Italy and two of them participated in Operation Horev in December 1948.

Active units
The following list contains all currently active armor brigades:

 7th "Saar me-Golan/Storm from Golan" Armor Brigade
 188th "Barak/Lightning" Armor Brigade
 401st "I'kvot Ha-Barzel/Iron Trails" Armor Brigade
 460th "Bnei Or/Sons of Light" (Training) Armor Brigade