[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Christopher Wise

ud Kati, Ta’rikh al-fattash: The Timbuktu Chronicles 1493- 1599,”by Nubai Kai. Journal of the African Literature Association, Vol. 6, No. 2 (2013).</ref> Wise's translation of the Tarikh al fattashhas been praised for its readable prose, and it remains one of Africa World Press's best-selling books.

 Cultural Theory Writings and Literary Criticism 
Wise's works in literary criticism have focused on African, Middle Eastern, and Native American authors, including Chinua Achebe, Ngugi wa Thiong’o, Frantz Fanon, V. S. Naipaul, Mary Crow Dog, and others. In his early theoretical writings, Wise identified himself as “Marxian” and wrote his Ph.D. dissertation on Fredric Jameson. Wise's later theoretical works have focused on deconstruction, especially the Franco-Algerian theorist, Jacques Derrida.  In 2001, Wise published a controversial essay on Derrida in the journal ‘’Diacritics’’ entitled 'Deconstruction and Zionism: Jacques Derrida’s Specters of Marx.' In this essay, Wise rejected Derrida's universalizing term “messianicity” which he saw as historically specific to Judaic articulations of messianism, as well as Derrida's sympathetic views about Zionism in Israel.  Although Wise criticized Derrida's Zionism, he also argued that Derrida's orientation to theory as a Sephardic Jew from Northwest Africa rendered his work particularly useful for African studies. In ‘’Derrida, Africa, and the Middle East,’’ Wise built upon Derrida’s deconstruction of Hellenic concepts of the word, and the Senegalese philosopher Cheikh Anta Diop’s writings about ancient Egyptian influence in the Sahel, suggesting that heka, the Egyptian word for “word,” is probably the historical antecedent of the Hebraic term ruah, the Mande term nyama, and the Songhay term naxamala. Regarding this book, Nigerian critic Abiola Irele stated, “Apart from its careful dissection of Derrida’s work in all its scope, Derrida, Africa, and the Middle East represents a major contribution to the on-going debate of the relations between peoples.” The Kenyan critic Emilia Ileva similarly stated, “Wise has succeeded in making deconstruction far more inclusive than the articulation of it one finds in Derrida’s writings. Derrida’s work may now begin to resonate more clearly in Africa and in African Studies in particular.” Thirteen years after his essay on Derrida and Zionism appeared, Wise published a follow-up essay in Gianni Vattimo and Michael Marder's ‘’Deconstructing Zionism,’’ which included contributions from Slavoj Zizek, Judith Butler, Luce Irigaray, and others.  Vattimo and Marder’s volume was harshly criticized as “anti-semitic” by Cary Nelson, Gabriel Brahm Noah, and others. Others defended the volume and Wise's contribution to it. Around this time, Wise wrote a theoretical book entitled ‘’Chomsky and Deconstruction,’’ which responded to Noam Chomsky’s attacks on poststructuralist theorists like Derrida, Michel Foucault, Jacques Lacan, Julia Kristeva and others. Although Wise’s book on Chomsky largely concentrated on Chomsky’s linguistics, he later extended his critique to include Chomsky’s political views of U.S. foreign policy in ‘’Sorcery, Totem, and Jihad in African Philosophy,’’ (Bloomsbury, 2017). The anthropologist Paul Stoller called Wise’s application of Derrida to the Sahel in this book “brilliant,” and the Ajami scholar Fallou Ngom similarly called Wise's book “a major contribution to West African Studies.” Wise's book has nevertheless been criticized in its comparison of Israeli Zionism with the Wahhabi jihadist invasion of Northern Mali in 2012.

Selected Works: Translations and AuthoredThe Yambo Ouologuem Reader: The Duty of Violence, A Black Ghostwriter’s Letter to France, & The Thousand and One Bibles of Sex. Edited & Translated by Christopher Wise. Trenton, New Jersey & Asmara, Eritrea: Africa World Press, 2008The Marxian Hermeneutics of Fredric Jameson, 1995Yambo Ouologuem: Postcolonial Writer, Islamic Militant, 1999 (editor)The Desert Shore: Literatures of the Sahel, 2001 (editor)The Parachute Drop, by Norbert Zongo. Translated by Christopher Wise. Trenton, New Jersey & Asmara, Eritrea: Africa World Press, 2004 Derrida, Africa, and the Middle East, 2009Chomsky and Deconstruction: The Politics of Unconscious Knowledge, 2011Taʾrīkh al Fattāsh: The Timbuktu Chronicles 1493–1599, 2011 (editor and translator)In Search of Yambo Ouologuem. Vlaeberg, South Africa: Chimurenga Books, “Best of Chimurenga,” Series 2, Book 5, 2011.Sorcery, Totem, and Jihad in African Philosophy,  “Suspensions: Contemporary Middle Eastern and Islamicate Thought,” New York: Bloomsbury Publishing, 2017.

 Articles