[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Canary Islands

and eventually sank beneath the surface.

Rail transport 
The Tenerife Tram opened in 2007 and is currently the only one in the Canary Islands, travelling between the cities of Santa Cruz de Tenerife and San Cristóbal de La Laguna.

Three more railway lines are being planned for the Canary Islands:

Airports 
 Tenerife South Airport – Tenerife
 Tenerife North Airport – Tenerife
 César Manrique-Lanzarote Airport – Lanzarote
 Fuerteventura Airport – Fuerteventura
 Gran Canaria Airport – Gran Canaria
 La Palma Airport – La Palma
 La Gomera Airport – La Gomera
 El Hierro Airport – El Hierro

Ports 

 Port of Puerto del Rosario – Fuerteventura
 Port of Arrecife – Lanzarote
 Port of Playa Blanca—Lanzarote
 Port of Santa Cruz de La Palma – La Palma
 Port of San Sebastián de La Gomera – La Gomera
 Port of La Estaca – El Hierro
 Port of Las Palmas – Gran Canaria
 Port of Arinaga – Gran Canaria
 Port of Agaete – Gran Canaria
 Port of Los Cristianos – Tenerife
 Port of Santa Cruz de Tenerife – Tenerife
 Port of Garachico – Tenerife
 Port of Granadilla – Tenerife

Health 

The Servicio Canario de Salud is an autonomous body of administrative nature attached to the Ministry responsible for Health of the Government of the Canary Islands. The majority of the archipelago's hospitals belong to this organization:

 Hospital Nuestra Señora de los Reyes – El Hierro
 Hospital General de La Palma – La Palma
 Hospital Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe – La Gomera
 Hospital Universitario Nuestra Señora de Candelaria – Tenerife
 Hospital Universitario de Canarias – Tenerife
 Hospital del Sur de Tenerife – Tenerife
 Hospital del Norte de Tenerife – Tenerife
 Hospital Universitario de Gran Canaria Doctor Negrín – Gran Canaria
 Hospital Universitario Insular de Gran Canaria – Gran Canaria
 Hospital General de Lanzarote Doctor José Molina Orosa – Lanzarote
 Hospital General de Fuerteventura – Fuerteventura

Wildlife

Extinct fauna 

The Canary Islands were previously inhabited by a variety of endemic animals, such as extinct giant lizards (Gallotia goliath), giant tortoises (Centrochelys burchardi and C. vulcanica), and Tenerife and Gran Canaria giant rats (Canariomys bravoi and C. tamarani),  among others. Extinct birds known only from Pleistocene and Holocene age bones include the Canary Islands quail (Coturnix gomerae), Dune shearwater (Puffinus holeae), Lava shearwater (P. olsoni), Trias greenfinch (Chloris triasi), Slender-billed greenfinch (C. aurelioi) and the Long-legged bunting (Emberiza alcoveri).

Current fauna 

The bird life includes European and African species, such as the black-bellied sandgrouse, Canary, Graja, a subspecies of red-billed chough endemic to La Palma, Gran Canaria blue chaffinch, Tenerife blue chaffinch, Canary Islands chiffchaff, Fuerteventura chat, Tenerife goldcrest, La Palma chaffinch, Canarian Egyptian vulture, Bolle's pigeon, Laurel pigeon, Plain swift, and Houbara bustard.

Terrestrial fauna includes the El Hierro giant lizard, La Gomera giant lizard, and the La Palma giant lizard. Mammals include the Canarian shrew, Canary big-eared bat, the Algerian hedgehog, and the more recently introduced mouflon.

Marine life 

The marine life found in the Canary Islands is also varied, being a combination of North Atlantic, Mediterranean and endemic species. In recent years, the increasing popularity of both scuba diving and underwater photography have provided biologists with much new information on the marine life of the islands.

Fish species found in the islands include many species of shark, ray, moray eel, bream, jack, grunt, scorpionfish, triggerfish, grouper, goby, and blenny. In addition, there are many invertebrate species, including sponge, jellyfish, anemone, crab, mollusc, sea urchin, starfish, sea cucumber and coral.

There are a total of five different species of marine turtle that are sighted periodically in the islands, the most common of these being the endangered loggerhead sea turtle. The other four are the green sea turtle, hawksbill sea turtle, leatherback sea turtle and Kemp's ridley sea turtle. Currently, there are no signs that any of these species breed in the islands, and so those seen in the water are usually migrating. However, it is believed that some of these species may have bred in the islands in the past, and there are records of several sightings of leatherback sea turtle on beaches in Fuerteventura, adding credibility to the theory.

Marine mammals include the large varieties of cetaceans including rare and not well-known species (see more details in the Marine life of the Canary Islands). Hooded seals have also been known to be vagrant in the Canary Islands every now and then. The Canary Islands were also formerly home to a population of the rarest pinniped in the world, the Mediterranean monk seal.

Native flora gallery

Holidays