[Source: PubMed]

16. Health Aff (Millwood). 2018 Feb;37(2):316-324. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2017.0861.

The Equity Impact Vaccines May Have On Averting Deaths And Medical 
Impoverishment In Developing Countries.

Chang AY(1), Riumallo-Herl C(2), Perales NA(3), Clark S(4), Clark A(5), 
Constenla D(6), Garske T(7), Jackson ML(8), Jean K(9), Jit M(10), Jones EO(11), 
Li X(12), Suraratdecha C(13), Bullock O(14), Johnson H(15), Brenzel L(16), 
Verguet S(17).

Author information:
(1)Angela Y. Chang ( angela.chang@mail.harvard.edu ) was a doctor of science 
candidate in the Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard T. H. Chan 
School of Public Health, in Boston, Massachusetts, at the time this article was 
completed. Currently she is a postdoctoral fellow at the Institute for Health 
Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, in Seattle.
(2)Carlos Riumallo-Herl was a doctor of science candidate in the Department of 
Global Health and Population, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, at the 
time this article was completed. Currently he is a postdoctoral fellow in the 
Department of Applied Economics, Erasmus School of Economics, in Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Nicole A. Perales was a master of science student in the Department of Global 
Health and Population, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, at the time 
this article was completed. Currently she is a doctoral student at the 
University of California, Berkeley.
(4)Samantha Clark is a PhD candidate in the Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and 
Policy Program, University of Washington.
(5)Andrew Clark is an assistant professor in health decision modelling, London 
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, in the United Kingdom.
(6)Dagna Constenla is an associate scientist and the director of Economics and 
Finance in the Vaccine Access Center of the Department of International Health, 
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, in Baltimore, Maryland.
(7)Tini Garske is a lecturer in the MRC Centre for Outbreak Analysis and 
Modelling, Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College 
London, in the United Kingdom.
(8)Michael L. Jackson is an associate investigator at the Kaiser Permanente 
Washington Health Research Institute, in Seattle.
(9)Kévin Jean is a lecturer in epidemiology in the laboratoire Modélisation, 
épidémiologie et surveillance des risques sanitaires (MESuRS), Conservatoire 
national des Arts et Métiers, in Paris, France, and a visiting lecturer in the 
MRC Centre for Outbreak Analysis and Modelling, Department of Infectious Disease 
Epidemiology, Imperial College London.
(10)Mark Jit is a professor of vaccine epidemiology in the Department of 
Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
(11)Edward O. Jones was a researcher in the Department of Infectious Disease 
Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, when this article 
was completed.
(12)Xi Li is an independent health consultant in Manila, the Philippines.
(13)Chutima Suraratdecha is an independent consultant in Vienna, Virginia.
(14)Olivia Bullock is a program officer at Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, in 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(15)Hope Johnson is director of monitoring and evaluation at Gavi, the Vaccine 
Alliance.
(16)Logan Brenzel is a senior program officer for economics and finance, Vaccine 
Delivery/Global Development, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, in Washington, 
D.C.
(17)Stéphane Verguet is an assistant professor of global health in the 
Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public 
Health.

Comment in
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2018 May;37(5):828. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2018.0366.

With social policies increasingly directed toward enhancing equity through 
health programs, it is important that methods for estimating the health and 
economic benefits of these programs by subpopulation be developed, to assess 
both equity concerns and the programs' total impact. We estimated the 
differential health impact (measured as the number of deaths averted) and 
household economic impact (measured as the number of cases of medical 
impoverishment averted) of ten antigens and their corresponding vaccines across 
income quintiles for forty-one low- and middle-income countries. Our analysis 
indicated that benefits across these vaccines would accrue predominantly in the 
lowest income quintiles. Policy makers should be informed about the large health 
and economic distributional impact that vaccines could have, and they should 
view vaccination policies as potentially important channels for improving health 
equity. Our results provide insight into the distribution of vaccine-preventable 
diseases and the health benefits associated with their prevention.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2017.0861
PMID: 29401021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]