[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Percy Ernst Schramm

gh Command, Schramm was called as a key witness at the Nuremberg Trials after the war, where he testified on behalf of Jodl. Schramm maintained that Jodl, while a loyal soldier, was not an ideological Nazi and did not participate in any war crimes. Nonetheless, Jodl was convicted and hanged in 1946.

In the years after the war, Schramm authored a number of books on the history of the German military, as well as in-depth accounts of the desperate last days of the Third Reich as seen from inside the military command. Schramm's work in this field, particularly his multi-volume edition of the official diaries of the High Command, is still highly valued by military historians. Schramm was able, along with three of his former students, then professors themselves, to re-assemble the diary from copies he had saved in defiance of Hitler's scorched earth orders, combined with copies of diaries of earlier years which had been saved by Greiner, his predecessor as war diarist.

In 1962, Schramm published to some controversy a study of Adolf Hitler as a military commander (Hitler als militärischer Führer). Schramm was able to observe Hitler during the course of his duties, and he contrasted the patriotism and professionalism of the generals he served under with Hitler's irrationality and growing paranoia as the war took a turn for the worse.

Schramm also published, in 1963, an introduction to Henry Picker's Hitlers Tischgespräche (Hitler's Table Talk) entitled "The Anatomy of a Dictator", which was later published in English together with the earlier essay on Hitler's as a military leader as Hitler: The Man and the Military Leader

Whatever the merits of his other work, the essay on Hitler's personality provoked some criticism in the German press at the time, where Schramm was accused of being an apologist for National Socialism. In a series of lectures one year later at the University of Munich, during the summer term of 1964, the political philosopher and philosopher of history Eric Voegelin dismissed these charges; the lectures were later translated and published under the title of Hitler and the Germans. Voegelin argued at length, based on a close reading of Schramm's text and comparing it unfavourably with Alan Bullock's analysis, that Schramm gave no insight into 'the problem of Hitler', and that this was in any case an 'alibi' for the real problem. The real problem, Voegelin stated, drawing on classical thinkers from Plato to Schelling, as well as from contemporary German writers such as Carl Amery Capitulation: The Lesson of German Catholicism and Robert Musil On Stupidity) was the way that German Anstand bourgeois morality had rendered many, but not all, of the German population spiritually blind and effectively stupid, a state of affairs that had been allowed to persist until the present day. Schramm himself, Voegelin argued quite carefully, was, in a similar sense, stupid.

Post-war career 
Because he had been a member of the Nazi Party and served in a relatively high position in the army during the war, Schramm was removed from his university post. As denazification waned in the late 1940s, however, he was rehabilitated and returned to his professorship in Göttingen. Between 1954 and 1956, he produced what was perhaps his second most significant work, after Kaiser Rom und Renovatio, titled Herrschaftszeichen und Staatssymbolik (Signs of Authority and the Symbolism of the State). Herrschaftszeichen was a major survey of the representative art of medieval rulers or symbols of their power, including their regalia, seals, coinage, armaments, clothing, and other objects. These objects and their history were catalogued in more detail in a book Schramm authored together with the eminent art historian Florentine Mütherich, Denkmale der deutschen Könige und Kaiser ("Monuments of the German Kings and Emperors", 1962).

The enduring legacy of Schramm's work in these and numerous other studies and articles, was to demonstrate the importance of symbols, liturgical ceremony, gestures and images as critical sources for political history. Along with his contemporaries, Ernst H. Kantorowicz and Carl Erdmann, Schramm introduced an important element of cultural history to a field which (especially in Germany) tended to focus largely on institutions and their texts.

In 1958, Schramm was inducted into the Order Pour le Mérite, an award recognizing his contributions to the arts and sciences in Germany. In 1964, a Festschrift devoted to Schramm was published.

He died in 1970 in Göttingen.