[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fântâna Albă massacre

Varta from Chișinău is of the opinion that "the Romanians from Bucovina were lured into a trap, in order to give an exemplary lesson to all those who wanted to cross the border into Romania. Horror and fear had to enter their bones, so that in the future they would no longer nurture such a desire."

After the massacre, many participants and family members were arrested and either executed, incarcerated, or deported to Siberia or Kazakhstan. The Soviet authorities accused 22 people of instigating the march to the border on April 1, 1941. Vasile Grijincu was sentenced to death, and his wife and 8 children were deported to Kazakhstan; others were sentenced by a military court to either 10 years of hard labor (Ioan Boiciuc, Constantin Coroamă, Ilie Dâca, Teodor Dâca, Teodor Comarița, Ilie Cuciureanu, Nicolae Motrescu, Vasile Onifriciuc, Gheorghe Pojoga, Nicolae Pojoga, Petru Pojoga, Simion Pojoga, Gheorghe Popescu, Ioan Popescu, and Ilie Vasca) or 8 years of hard labor (Teodor Clingher, Cosma Crâsneanu, Orest Dugan, Petru Schipor, and Vasile Zmoșu). Out of the 22 convicted persons, 19 died in the camps and only three (Teodor Dâca, Orest Dugan, and Ilie Vasca) returned home in 1961.

Aftermath and larger context

During 1940–1941, between 11,000 and 13,000 Bukovinians (mostly, but not only ethnic Romanians) were deported to Siberia and the Gulag, 1,421 of them dying in the camps. As a result of immigration, deportations and killings, the Romanian population of the Chernivtsi region dropped by more than 75,000 between the Romanian 1930 census and the first Soviet census of 1959. It has been claimed that these persecutions were part of a program of deliberate extermination, planned and executed by the Soviet regime.

According to Ukrainian political scientist Marin Gherman, Soviet narratives about the Fântâna Albă massacre had two main objectives — to obscure the details of the slaughter and to present it as an action of the Romanian and German intelligence services — so as to absolve the Soviet authorities of responsibility. Gherman points out that these narratives continue to this day: in March 2021, the Facebook page of the Chernivtsi Regional State Administration published a video about the massacre, stating that only 50 people were killed, omitting the fact that these were ethnic Romanians, and labelling the action "a planned and deliberate act of defiance by the Romanian secret service against the inhabitants of Bukovina." In rebuttal, MEP Eugen Tomac stated that those who produced the video claiming that only 50 citizens were killed at Fântâna Albă were inspired by Stalin's theses, and denounced this fact as unacceptable.

On 1 April 2016, the 75th anniversary of the massacre, a ceremony was held in Fântâna Albă, with the participation of the Governor of Chernivtsi Oblast, the abbot of Putna Monastery, and several Romanian officials, including Dan Stoenescu and Viorel Badea. In an interview, Stoenescu stated that "this tragedy of the Romanian people was followed by other retaliations as the one in 1941 when other thousands of Romanians of Bukovina, many of them being the relatives of the victims of Fântâna Albă massacre, were taken away from their houses and deported to Siberia and Kazakhstan."

See also
Lunca massacre
List of massacres in the Soviet Union
Katyn massacre
Tatarka common graves

Notes

References and sources 
  Vasile Ilica, "Martiri și mărturii din nordul Bucovinei (Fântâna Albă-Suceveni-Lunca-Crasna-Ijești...)", Oradea, 2003
  Vasile Mănescu, "Masacrul de la Fîntîna Albă", Monitorul de Neamț, 4 April 2006

External links

Mass murder in 1941
1941 in Romania
1941 in Ukraine
Massacres in 1941
Romania–Soviet Union relations
Massacres in the Soviet Union
Massacres in Ukraine
Massacres in Romania
NKVD
History of Bukovina
History of Chernivtsi Oblast
Romania in World War II
1941 in the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic
Anti-communism in Moldova
Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina
Soviet World War II crimes
April 1941 events
Massacres of Romanians