[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battles Without Honor and Humanity: Proxy War

, the mother of Masahiro Ōnishi who was the model for Wakasugi in the first film. She told him her son could finally rest in peace thanks to the movie. The writer then created the character Kuramoto and his mother thanks to this encounter. The name Kuramoto came from fellow screenwriter Sō Kuramoto.

The assistant director, Toru Dobashi, said that a producer selected an actor to play Katsuharu Saijo. Fukasaku wanted to use Takuzo Kawatani for the role but did not want to argue with the producer. Therefore he shot the shipyard scene where the character is beat up using the producer's choice on-location, but without showing his face, while having Dobashi train Kawatani for the role in one week. Fukasaku returned with scrap iron and other background materials from the shoot and shot close-ups of Kawatani using a stand in for Sugawara. Dobashi also revealed that while filming the night scene where Tsunehiko Watase's arm gets stuck in a car door and is dragged along with it, the residents of Daiei complained. On the location's last day, Watase performed the stunt himself in a single take that was filmed on a 16 mm film Eyemo to be blown up to 35 mm film later. However, it was later discovered that the Eyemo had no film in it and the scene had to be shot over after pleading with the residents.

After the second film, the anti-crime unit of the police in Hiroshima said they would not support on-location shooting. The production team for the third movie had a hard time filming in Etajima with the officials saying they "gave the wrong impression of Hiroshima by depicting violent incidents that never happened." Kasahara responded by stating that he did not write any fictional violent acts, all of them were real.

The third screenplay took 91 days to write and to the surprise of Kasahara, it was the most successful at the time. The writer said he did not understand it as the film made no sense to him and was curious what the audience saw, before suggesting that it must have been Kinji Fukasaku's direction.

Release
Battles Without Honor and Humanity has been released on home video and aired on television, the latter with some scenes cut. In 1980, the first four films were edited into a 224-minute compilation and was given a limited theatrical release and broadcast on Toei's TV network. A Blu-ray box set compiling all five films in the series was released on March 21, 2013, to celebrate its 40th anniversary.

All five films in the series were released on DVD in North America by Home Vision Entertainment in 2004, under the moniker The Yakuza Papers. A 6-disc DVD box set containing them all was also released. It includes a bonus disc containing interviews with director William Friedkin, discussing the influence of the films in America; subtitle translator Linda Hoaglund, discussing her work on the films; David Kaplan, Kenta Fukasaku, Kiyoshi Kurosawa, a Toei producer and a biographer among others. Arrow Films released a Blu-ray and DVD box set, limited to 2,500 copies, of all five films in the UK on December 7, 2015, and in the US a day later. Special features include an interview with the series fight choreographer Ryuzo Ueno and the 1980 edited compilation of the first four films.

Reception
Battles Without Honor and Humanity: Proxy War was the thirteenth highest-grossing film of 1973. On Kinema Junpos annual list of the best films for the year as voted by critics, it ranked eighth.

References

External links
 
 Battles Without Honor and Humanity: Proxy War  at the Japanese Movie Database

1973 films
1970s crime drama films
Films directed by Kinji Fukasaku
1970s Japanese-language films
Toei Company films
Yakuza films
Films set in the 1960s
Films set in Hiroshima Prefecture
1973 drama films
1970s Japanese films
Organized crime films based on actual events