[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Red Terror (Ethiopia)

food supplies, building materials, and gasoline; some considered cameras espionage equipment and others regarded typewriters as highly dangerous." Despite many being taken from their homes in the middle of the night, some never to return home, few of the top leaders of the EPRP were among the dead.

A number of distinctly ugly incidents followed. One was at the Berhanena Selam Printing Press, where three days later a dozen workers were arrested for being EPRP members, then afterwards released for lack of evidence; on the morning of 26 March, nine of them were found murdered, including a woman in an advanced stage of pregnancy, which shocked the city. The deaths were found to be the responsibility of a certain Girma Kebede, and who was later found to be "the Political Bureau's chief executioner; he had already murdered twenty-four persons and had a list of over two hundred others he was supposed to liquidate." Embarrassed, the Derg had him and five associates executed as counterrevolutionaries on 2 April.
 
Despite this brutality, the EPRP continued to strike back, best as it could. As one contemporary report describes:
 In and around the capital, the main opposition group is the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Party (E.P.R.P.) .... E.P.R.P. has given the Dergue good reason to be nervous: it has assassinated more than 20 government officials, mounted at least one daring raid on Dergue headquarters, and even wounded Mengistu in an ambush. One rebel sympathizer accosted Correspondent Griggs on a busy downtown street and boasted: "We have 700 marksmen, and some of them are Mengistu's own soldiers. It will take time, but we will clean out the pseudo-Marxist military leaders eventually."

Events like this led to tension between the Derg junta (and presumably Mengistu) and the civilian Political Bureau. Concern over the threat of the EPRP kept this tension from becoming a definite break until the eve of May Day, when the Political Bureau, on the pretext that an anti-government protest was in the offing, ordered the kebeles to arrest any young person suspected of being an EPRP member. According to the Ottaways, "Hundreds were arrested, taken to three different sites on the outskirts of Addis Ababa, and executed en masse. Scores of others were gunned down in the streets by the Derg's 'permanent secretaries', the jeeps mounted with machine guns constantly patrolling the streets of Addis Ababa. The death toll may have been as high as one thousand." Afterwards, the Derg disavowed this outrage and put the blame for the slaughter on the Political Bureau in a proclamation on 14 July. The Bureau's leader Haile Fida and a group of his followers attempted to flee the capital the following August, but were caught.

At the same time, the Red Terror made MEISON its next target. "Sensing danger," writes Bahru Zewde, "the leaders of the organization hastily tried to go underground. But almost all of them were either captured or killed in August 1977 as they tried to retreat into the countryside in several detachments."

Thousands of men and women were rounded up and executed in the following two years. Amnesty International estimates that the death toll could be as high as 500,000. Groups of people were herded into churches that were then burned down, and women were subjected to systematic rape by soldiers. The Save the Children Fund reported that the victims of the Red Terror included not only adults but 1,000 or more children, mostly aged between eleven and thirteen, whose corpses were left in the streets of Addis Ababa.

Aftermath 

The victims' lives are immortalized in the "Red Terror" Martyrs' Memorial Museum in Addis Ababa.

Mengistu was found guilty of genocide in absentia and was sentenced to life in prison in January 2007. After his conviction, Zimbabwe, where he received sanctuary due to friendship with Robert Mugabe, said it would not extradite him.  On 26 May 2008, the Ethiopian Supreme Court sentenced Mengistu in absentia to death. Eighteen associates of Mengistu, 16 of whom are in Ethiopian prisons, also are under a death sentence.  Two senior regime officials lived in the Italian embassy in Addis Ababa from 2008 until their death sentences were commuted and they were granted parole in 2020. Another individual who was found guilty in absentia in May 2002, Kelbessa Negewo, was returned from his exile in the United States several years later to serve a life sentence.

See also 
 Ethiopian Civil War
 Hutu Ten Commandments
 March of the Iron Will
 Mass killings under communist regimes
 Neo-Stalinism
 Stalinism

Notes

References 
 Talk of the Devil: Encounters with Seven Dictators by Riccardo Orizio, 2003, p. 150.

External links

Victims of Red Terror Memorial website
"Red Terror" Martyrs' Memorial Museum in Addis Ababa 

1977 in Ethiopia
1978 in Ethiopia
Communism in Ethiopia
Conflicts in 1977
Political and cultural purges
Conflicts in 1978
Ethiopian Civil War
Political repression in Ethiopia
Politicides