[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Alliance (The Office)

"The Alliance" is the fourth episode of the first season of the American comedy television series The Office. The episode aired on NBC in the United States on April 12, 2005. It was written by Michael Schur and directed by Bryan Gordon, marking their first credits for the show.

In this episode, paranoia takes over the members of the office as downsizing rumors swirl. Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) forms a Survivor-esque alliance with Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) against the other employees—later adding Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer) also. Meanwhile, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) arranges a morale-boosting birthday party for Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery)—although her birthday is more than a month away. Michael agonizes over writing the perfect greeting in her birthday card, and in the end, his joke falls flat, ruining the party.

The episode was inspired by popular reality television shows, most notably Survivor. Originally, the first cut of the episode ran 37 minutes long and the producers considered making the episode a two-parter, one focusing on the Alliance and another focusing on Meredith's birthday party, but later decided against the idea. In addition, several of the lines and scenes from the episode were improvised or ad-libbed by the cast. "The Alliance" was viewed by an estimated 5.4 million viewers and received a 2.4/6% rating share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49. The episode received positive reviews from critics.

Plot

Although time has dragged on, the downsizing rumors at Dunder Mifflin have not ceased.  Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) feels particularly threatened by the impending crisis, and, in an act of desperation, forms an alliance with his office nemesis Jim Halpert (John Krasinski).  Jim sees the alliance as an opportunity with great potential and agrees as a lark.  He immediately enlists Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer)'s help in the situation. The two continue to perform a series of office pranks at the expense of Dwight.

Meanwhile, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) tries to boost morale in the office by having an office birthday party for Meredith Palmer (Kate Flannery), even though her birthday is a month away.  Michael agonizes over writing the perfect greeting in her birthday card.  In the end, his joke (and subsequent rejected ones) fall flat and ruins the party.  At the same time, Oscar also gets him to donate money to his nephew's cerebral palsy walk-a-thon, which Michael accidentally overcontributes to in an effort to look like a good boss.

At the end of the day, after a breakthrough in his pranks on Dwight, Jim giddily grabs Pam's hand in an attempt to explain what has just happened.  However, Pam's fiancé Roy Anderson (David Denman) catches this and sees it as an attempt by Jim to make a move on Pam. Jim tries to convince Roy that it was just "office pranks" and asks Dwight to back him up, but he simply denies any involvement leaving Jim awkwardly embarrassed. Dwight reveals that he had no problems betraying Jim, despite the fact that he recently fell into one of Jim's tricks.

Production
 
The episode was inspired by popular reality television shows, most notably Survivor. The "Can I trust Jim?..." line was a direct reference to the show and was a "last-second addition" according to Daniels. In addition, Randall Einhorn, the cameraman for the episode, was a cameraman for Survivor. When the episode was being written, many of the cast and crew feared that it would bear too many stylistic resemblances to Curb Your Enthusiasm. Daniels later defended the show, saying that the show was different because of "the fact that they are on TV and they know they are being filmed. [They know they're] on camera." During the writing of the episode, Daniels made the writers spend actual time on the set, most notably in Michael's office. Mindy Kaling later noted that she "hated it".