[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Australia–China relations

tates. In November 2022, prime minister Albanese met with Chinese President Xi Jinping during the G20 summit in Bali. In December 2022, Australian Foreign Minister Penny Wong visited China, the first Australian minister to visit the country since 2019, where she met Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi.

In March 2023, Albanese officially commenced AUKUS with president Biden and United Kingdom prime minister Rishi Sunak, which was negatively received by China. Under AUKUS, Australia will purchase Virginia class nuclear powered submarines from the United States and also build a new class of nuclear powered submarines SSN-AUKUS in Australia in cooperation with the United States and the United Kingdom. In early 2023, China ended its unofficial ban on imports of Australian coal, with all restrictions reportedly being lifted by 14 March. On 11 April, the countries announced that they reached an agreement over disputes over China's barley imports from Australia, with China agreeing to review its tariffs in exchange for Australia suspending a case against China in the World Trade Organization (WTO). A day later, Ma Zhaoxu, Chinese Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs, visited Australia, the first by a senior Chinese official since 2017. In May, Australian Minister for Trade and Tourism Don Farrell visited Beijing, the first visit by an Australian trade minister to China since 2019; Farrell said the trip "is just another step in the road of stabilising the relationship". Chinese ambassador to Australia Xiao Qian announced on 18 May that China would allow imports of Australian timber, which was suspended in 2020.

In September 2023, the two countries held a High-Level Dialogue in Beijing, the first in three years, with former trade minister Craig Emerson leading the Australian delegation, while China was represented by former foreign minister Li Zhaoxing. Later that month, Albanese met with Chinese Premier Li Qiang on the sidelines of the East Asia Summit held in Jakarta. On 11 October, Australian journalist Cheng Lei, a former news anchor of the China Global Television who was detained in September 2020, was released and returned to Australia. Since her detention, the Australian government had campaigned for her release.

Diplomatic offices 

The Chinese embassy is located in Canberra, ACT in Australia. There are consulates in major cities such as Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, and Adelaide.

The Australian embassy is located in Beijing. Australia also has consulates in major cities such as Shanghai, Guangzhou and Hong Kong.

Public opinion
In 2018, in the Lowy Institute poll there had a sharp rise in the proportion of the Australian population who say the Australian government is "allowing too much investment from China". This number rose from 56 per cent in 2014 to 72 per cent in 2018.

In 2021, 42% of Australians believed China was likely to attack 
Australia and 49% believed the same for Taiwan. 13% believed that an attack on Taiwan by China will happen soon. 62% of Australians also believed that China was a "very aggressive" country.

In 2022, a poll conducted by the Lowy Institute showed that 51% of Australians would support sending military support to Taiwan if China were to invade, up from 43% in 2021. The same survey showed only 12% trusted China on foreign affairs, down from 16% in 2021 and 52% in 2018.

As a military threat

As an economic partner or a security threat

See also

 China–Australia Migratory Bird Agreement
 
 Diplomatic history of Australia
 Foreign relations of China
 Sino-Pacific relations

References

Further reading