[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Regulares

ned their structure. Franco authorized the establishment of a ceremonial mounted honour guard ("Guardia de Su Excelencia el Generalísimo") from the Regulares cavalry which, with colourful Moorish uniforms and white Arabian horses, served in close attendance on him and formed part of his guards unit.

With the independence of Morocco in 1956 the majority of the Moroccan personnel of the Regulares, numbering about 12,500, were transferred to the newly raised Royal Moroccan Armed Forces. The two cavalry units were disbanded and the Groups were reduced to just eight. In 1957 Franco's ceremonial guard in Madrid, the  (Moorish Guards), were replaced by an escort of Spanish cavalry who retained the white cloaks and horses of the Regulares.

Present day 
 

Spain retained the historic enclaves of Melilla and Ceuta and the reduced Groups of Tetuan, Melilla, Ceuta and Alhucemas remained in existence as part of the two garrisons.

As part of a wider reorganisation of the Spanish Army in 1986, the existing 4 Regulares Groups were amalgamated into two light infantry regiments within the present day Spanish Army, which exist to this very day. Their active personnel are Spanish citizens first and foremost, many of them natives of the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, both Muslim and Christian. They retain the traditional divisions of Grupos or Groups (regiments) and Tabores (battalions) as follows:

 Grupo de Infantería Ligera Regulares de Melilla nº 52 (Stationed in Melilla, Peñón de Vélez de la Gomera, Peñón de Alhucemas and Islas Chafarinas )
 Tabor Alhucemas I
 Tabor Rif II
 Grupo de Infantería Ligera Regulares de Ceuta nº 54 (Stationed in Ceuta )
 Tabor Tetuan II (motorized)
 Anti-tank company

Both the present regiments are also successors to regular infantry regiments of the Spanish Army, which formerly served in Melilla and Ceuta.

In recent years detachments of Regulares have served in peace missions both in Bosnia and Afghanistan.

Evolution 
In 1914 Regulares' forces were expanded with the creation of four regiments, titled Groups () Each of these four groups consisted of the regimental headquarters, two Infantry Tabors (battalions) of three companies plus a Tabor of three cavalry troops/squadrons, together with support elements.

Specifically, the Groups of Indigenous Regular Forces were constituted as follows:

 1st Group of Indigenous Regular Forces "Tetuán", (Tetuan)
 2nd Group of Indigenous Regular Forces "Melilla" ( Melilla and Nador )
 3rd Group of Indigenous Regular Forces "Ceuta" ( Ceuta )
 4th Group of Indigenous Regular Forces "Larache" ( Arcila and Larache )

In 1921 and after the Battle of Annual a fifth unit was created:

 5th Group of Indigenous Regular Forces "Alhucemas", with HQ in Segangan .

After the Spanish Civil War, five new groups were raised:

 6th Group of Indigenous Regular Forces "Xauen", based in the city of Xaue.
 7th Group of Indigenous Regular Forces "Llano Amarillo", with headquarters in Cabrerizas, Mellilia. 
 8th Group of Indigenous Regular Forces "Rif", based in the Souk el Had, Beni Sicar
 9th Group of Indigenous Regular Forces "Arcila", based in the city of Alcazarquivir.
 10th Group of Indigenous Regular Forces "Bab-Taza", with barracks in Bab-Taza.

Two groups of cavalry were also raised, organized into a regimental HQ and three Tabors of cavalry squadrons/troops each:

 1st Group of Indigenous Cavalry Regular Forces Tetuán
 2nd Group of Independent Indigenous Cavalry Forces Melilla

Uniforms 

After a brief establishment period during which the Regulares wore white indigenous dress, the new corps was issued with uniforms modelled on those of the French zouaves. During 1913-14 these were replaced by simplified light khaki, worn with red fez caps and sashes. During the 1930s the Regulares were uniformed similarly to the Tiradores de Ifni but without the . A tarbuch was worn, by the native officers and men, with a sand colored shirt and breeches with brown leather equipment. Spanish officers wore a sand colored variant of the standard Spanish Army uniform with a red topped peaked cap.

Currently the Regulares wear the same camouflage dress for active service and ordinary duties as the rest of the Spanish Army but retain a unique, khaki tropical uniform for semi-formal barrack dress and as the basis of its parade uniform. The most distinctive features of the modern Regulares uniform are the red fez, red or blue sashes and white cloaks (burnous) retained from the Moorish style dress uniforms worn prior to 1956.

Modern parade march 
These regiments and their attached battalions march in both quick and slow time on parade and only turn to the slow march when they are ready to render salutes on the march.