[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# University of Saskatchewan academics

has seven affiliated colleges. Similar to federated colleges, affiliated colleges rely on the university's degree-granting authority, but unlike federated colleges, they are wholly independent institutions (that is, they are not legally, financially, or academically integrated with the university).

Briercrest College and Seminary

Briercrest College and Seminary has been in operation since 1935, and is located in Caronport, Saskatchewan. It offers Bachelor of Arts degrees in a spiritual learning atmosphere which provides bible studies and theology. Bachelor of Arts degrees can be obtained in the studies of Biblical Studies, Business Administration, Christian Ministry, Global Studies: Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages, Humanities, Music: Worship Leadership, Music: Technology, Music: Performance, Pastoral Ministry, Recreation Leadership, Recreation Leadership: Outdoor Adventure, Theology, and Youth Ministry.

Horizon College and Seminary

Prior to 1 May 2007, Horizon College and Seminary was known as Central Pentecostal College. The Central Pentecostal College was founded as Bethel Bible Institute in 1935, and was located in Star City, Saskatchewan. A few years later, it moved to Saskatoon and joined the Pentecostal Assemblies of Canada. Its current location is 1303 Jackson Avenue, Saskatoon, which places the college north of the U of S via Cumberland Avenue. The U of S conferred affiliate college status to the Central Pentecostal College in 1983. Central Pentecostal College offers Certificate in Christian Studies, Diploma in Christian Studies, Diploma in Pastoral Ministries, Bachelor of Religious Education, Bachelor of Theology – Christian Studies, and several Bachelor of Arts degrees in various religious disciplines.

Saskatoon Theological Union

The College of Emmanuel and St. Chad (Anglican Church of Canada), St. Andrew's College (United Church of Canada), and the Lutheran Theological Seminary (Evangelical Lutheran Church in Canada) come together under an association called the Saskatoon Theological Union (STU). They share a common database known as the Saskatoon Theological Libraries Consortium.

College of Emmanuel and St. Chad
Emmanuel College first opened its doors in 1879 in the city of Prince Albert. In 1883, the name changed to the University of Saskatchewan. In 1909, when the provincial university was founded in Saskatoon, the college moved to Saskatoon, and was conferred with the title University of Emmanuel College. Rugby Chapel was constructed in 1913 from the Prince Albert holdings which were shipped south to the new location. Emmanuel College, a brick building, was built on campus between 1911 and 1912. St. Chad's College opened in Regina, but combined with the University of Emmanuel College in 1964 in Saskatoon. The new name became the College of Emmanuel and St. Chad, and it is currently located on campus at 1121 College Drive located as a tenant within the St. Andrew's College building.

A Masters of Divinity, Masters of Theological Studies, and Bachelor of Theological Studies can be obtained for ministry work for the Anglican Church of Canada.

The Institute for Stained Glass in Canada has documented the stained glass at the College of Emmanuel and St Chad (Anglican).

St. Andrew's College

The Presbyterian Theological College originated in 1913 and obtained its first building on campus in 1922. The name changed in 1924 to St. Andrew's College and it became a theological college for the United Church of Canada. St. Andrew's College is located on campus at 1121 College Drive.

Students may receive a Master of Divinity (M.Div.), Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.), Master of Sacred Theology (S.T.M.), or a one-year Diploma in Theology.

The Institute for Stained Glass in Canada has documented the stained glass at St Andrew’s (United).

Lutheran Theological Seminary

In 1965, the Lutheran Theological Seminary was formed by the merging of two Lutheran theological schools: the Lutheran College and Seminary, which was founded in Edmonton in 1913 by the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Manitoba and Other Provinces and was subsequently moved Saskatoon in 1914; and the Luther Theological Seminary, which was founded in 1939 by the Norwegian Lutheran Church in America. Students planning to serve in the Lutheran pastoral ministry may receive a Master of Divinity (M.Div.), Bachelor of Theology (B.Th.), Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.), or Master of Sacred Theology (S.T.M.) at the Lutheran Theological Seminary.

For their 40th anniversary, in 1999, they officially opened their new location on 1302 College Drive, which is adjacent to the main campus of the university.

St. Peter's College

St. Peter's College was founded in 1921 by the Benedictine monks of St. Peter’s Abbey in Muenster, Saskatchewan and was designated as a provincial heritage building until late May 2010. This U of S off-campus affiliated college is located about 100 kilometres east of Saskatoon.