[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Alphonzo E. Bell Jr.

een years he served in Congress, always voting his conscience, but always serving the people of his district, never forgetting who sent him to Washington. We need more Al Bell's, with his flawless service in the U.S. Congress. He showed his state and nation a lot of class."

Personal life and family

In 1940, Bell married Elizabeth Jane Helms, daughter of Paul Hoy Helms, American executive in the baking industry, and sports philanthropist. He founded the Helms Bakery in 1931 at Venice and Washington in Los Angeles, and the Helms Athletic Foundation with Bill Schroeder in 1936. Bell and Helms were later divorced. 

In 1970, Bell married television/movie actress, and former tennis champion and Wightman Cup winner, Marian McCargo, whom he described in his autobiography as the love of his life. They had met when she was starring in the film, The Undefeated, with his long-time close friend, actor John Wayne.

Bell died of complications of pneumonia in 2004, just eighteen days after the death of his wife Marian from pancreatic cancer.

Once divorced and twice widowed, Bell had one daughter, Fonza, and nine sons: Stephen, Matthew, Phonzo, Robert, and Tony Bell; and Rick, Graham, Harry, and Billy Moses. His youngest son, Tony Bell, serves as the Assistant Chief Deputy and spokesman for Los Angeles County Supervisor Mike Antonovich.

See also

 Alphonzo Bell, Bell's father
 James George Bell, Bell's grandfather
 Marian McCargo Bell, Bell's spouse
 William R. Moses, Bell's stepson
 Kathy Coleman, Bell's daughter-in-law; Land of the Lost cast member, television actor

References

External links

Autobiography. "The Bel Air Kid" 2002 Trafford Publishing—order on-line or through a bookstore.

United States Army Air Forces personnel of World War II
Occidental College alumni
Politicians from Los Angeles
California Republican Party chairs
1914 births
2004 deaths
Burials at Forest Lawn Memorial Park (Glendale)
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from California
20th-century American politicians
People from Santa Fe Springs, California
Deaths from pneumonia in California
Centrism in the United States
Activists for African-American civil rights