[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (New Zealand)

fence and emergency management was consolidated in the department in 2014 through a business unit called the Ministry for Civil Defence and Emergency Management (MCDEM). MCDEM was superseded by an autonomous departmental agency hosted by DPMC in 2019, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA).

The department is often responsible for coordinating government responses to significant events. It leads the All-of-Government Response to the COVID-19 pandemic in New Zealand and the Government response to the Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Terrorist Attack on the Christchurch Mosques. It previously led and coordinated central government's ongoing role in the recovery and regeneration of greater Christchurch following the earthquakes of 2010 and 2011. The department's Greater Christchurch Group operated from April 2016 until January 2021.

In February 2018 the Child Wellbeing and Poverty Reduction Group became a business unit of the DPMC to support the then-Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern in her role as Minister for Child Poverty Reduction and to support development of New Zealand’s Wellbeing Strategy for children and young people. As the current Minister for Child Poverty Reduction, Jan Tinetti is now the lead minister for this work

Following review by Cabinet of the Health and Disability System Review/Hauora Manaaki Ki Aotearoa Whānui a business unit known as the Health and Disability Review Transition Unit was established in September 2020 to lead the response to the review. This business unit ceased to operate in September 2022 with its monitoring function handed to the Ministry of Health.

The most recent addition to the department’s portfolio of business units is the Implementation Unit which began operating in June 2021 with the goal of supporting the implementation of selected priority programmes and ensuring that key relevant figures and agencies are kept regularly and accurately informed on the progress of these programmes.

The DPMC through its Honours Unit contained within the Cabinet Office also administers the New Zealand Royal Honours System. Made up of the following awards, the final Honours list is approved by The King of New Zealand on the advice of the Prime Minister:

 The Order of New Zealand
 The New Zealand Order of Merit
 The Queen's Service Order and associated Queen's Service Medal
 The New Zealand Bravery and Gallantry Awards
 The New Zealand Distinguished Service Decoration
 The New Zealand Antarctic Medal.

Time to time there have also been one-off or special awards such as the New Zealand 1990 Commemoration Medal, and the New Zealand Suffrage Medal 1993.

Ministers & Portfolios 
The DPMC (Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet) runs eight business units headed by the Chief Executive, Rebecca Kitteridge. Each of the following eight serves a different purpose and set of relevant Ministers or other office-holders:

A number of groups have been established and disestablished throughout the time that the DPMC has served the Government. After a significant earthquake in Canterbury in early 2015, while the city was still recovering from the 2011 Christchurch Earthquake, the Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Authority (CERA) was established, followed by the Greater Christchurch Group (GCG) in 2016. The disestablishment of CERA occurred in 2016 and GCG in 2021. The groups will have supported the Minister supporting Greater Christchurch Regeneration, initially Gerry Brownlee, then Nicky Wagner, and finally Megan Woods.

Many responsibilities have been shifted from the COVID-19 group to Health New Zealand and Ministry of Health. It's likely that the COVID-19 group will be disestablished, in the same way as CERA and GCG at some point in future, as the threat from COVID-19 fades and the pandemic ends.

Head of DPMC
The Head of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet has a "unified purpose to advance an ambitious, resilient and well-governed New Zealand". Their role is to be advisors, leaders, and stewards for the executive government. A key difference between the head of DPMC and those within the DPMC is that the head is part of the public service therefore their core job is to support the government of the day. They must remain non-partisan and will continue to serve the government no matter the basis of who is in the government of the day. The current head of the DPMC is made up of these crucial roles; Chief executive, Deputy Chief executive: of the National Security Group, Deputy Chief executive: Policy, Secretary of the Cabinet/ Clerk Of The Executive council, Executive Director, Strategy, Governance and Engagement Group and Child Wellbeing and Poverty Reduction Group, Executive Director: Implementation Unit and Deputy Chief Executive, COVID-19 Group. The clerk of the executive reports to the governor-general and the chief executive reports to the prime minister. To see current members and their roles refer to the table above.