[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mary Jo Kilroy

e Democrats the majority for the first time in twenty years. In her re-election she won by a 28,500 vote margin, which was substantially more than the 4,300 vote margin in 2000. During both elections, she won despite being widely outspent. She assumed the role of Board President on January 10, 2005.

Governing magazine named Franklin County as being among the five best-managed counties in the country during Kilroy's tenure. Also, Kilroy was named the Public Official of the Year by the Central Ohio Chapter of the National Association of Social Workers as a result of her role in creating the Columbus/Franklin County Affordable Housing Trust. Her term as commissioner was not without controversy, however. Kilroy came under fire during the awarding of contracts for the construction of Huntington Park because the lowest bid for the concrete was rejected in favor of a higher bid by a union shop. Eventually, the issue went to court and the commissioners decided to award the contract to the low bidder. She lost the 2006 race for U.S. Representative from  to Deborah Pryce, 50.2%–49.7%.

U.S. House of Representatives

Elections 

2006

Franklin County, which has elected Kilroy twice, makes up 87% of the 15th Congressional district. The 2006 race in Ohio's 15th district gained significant national attention as it was seen as one of a handful of seats that Democrats had an opportunity to gain from Republicans. As of mid-October, the race was generally considered to be a toss-up largely due to incumbent Representative Pryce's leadership in the Republican Party. Pryce had not had a close contest since her first election in 1992 and had garnered 10% more of the vote than George W. Bush in 2004. However, Pryce was vulnerable due to Ohio Republican Party (Bob Taft and Bob Ney) scandals, the lagging Ohio economy, her association with controversial Dennis Hastert and Mark Foley, and backlash to Republican support of the Iraq War. Another Ohio Republican scandal in the minds of Ohio voters during the 2006 campaign was the Coingate scandal. Pryce and the Republicans had to keep conservative independent, Charles Morrison, off the ballot to have their best shot at success. A month before the election, Pryce was 12 points behind Kilroy. On the eve of the election, some experts, such as Time, considered Pryce the underdog. Kilroy was expected to be the beneficiary of the decade-long migration of conservative voters to suburbs outside of the district.

Kilroy made an issue of Pryce's knowledge of the Foley scandal and the need for Hastert to resign. Kilroy also linked her opponent to the unpopular Republican administration and congressional majority. After Foley resigned following the page scandal, Kilroy attacked Pryce with the conservative religious voters. Kilroy ran radio commercials on Christian and conservative radio stations in an attempt to appeal to family-values-oriented listeners.

Two debates were held for this race during the 2006 election cycle. The first took place September 18, and the second was on October 12. In the first debate Kilroy and incumbent U.S. Representative, Pryce discussed the war in Iraq, the War on Terror, taxes, social security, the federal deficit and President Bush. In the final week before the election, Pryce attempted to demand another debate.

The second debate was marked by a more heated exchange on behalf of both participants. Kilroy referred to Pryce as a "right-wing apologist" and said that "Deborah Pryce continues to distort my record." Meanwhile, Pryce described her opponent as a "far left fringe Democrat" and said that Kilroy "spews lies and misinformation." The debate was attended by 400 people at the Ohio State University Fawcett Center and reporters from as far away as Ireland.

After regular ballots were counted, Pryce led Kilroy by over 3,500 votes with about 19,000 provisional ballots outstanding. The Franklin county absentee and provisional ballots were not counted until approximately two weeks after the election. On Monday November 27, nearly three weeks after Election Day, Pryce was declared the winner by a 1,054 vote margin that mandated a recount. After two recounts and all of the votes were counted, Congresswoman Deborah Pryce (R) prevailed over Democratic challenger Mary Jo Kilroy. The Franklin County Board of Elections announced the results Monday morning December 11, 2006. Pryce (R) gained 25 votes and Kilroy (D) gained 18 votes in the recount of votes in Franklin, Union, and Madison Counties in Ohio. Pryce won with 50.20% of the vote by a 110,739–109,677 margin. Kilroy felt her campaign was slowed by the early candidacy of fellow Franklin County Commissioner Paula Brooks, who eventually withdrew. Immediately after losing in 2006, she announced she would recontest the seat in 2008.

2008