[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Bessarabian Peasants' Party

t they turned down the offer. Artur Văitoianu, the nominally independent Prime Minister of Romania, approached the PȚB to become their candidate in Ismail County. Although favored by Halippa, this attempt was rejected by Inculeț, and became the first of several incidents separating the two leaders. 

Before this election, the PȚB had incorporated into its ranks an anticommunist group, the Bessarabian League against Bolshevism, whose founder, General Alexandru Anastasiu, ran on Peasantist lists for the Senate. However, according to the Romanian historian (and PNL politico) Gheorghe Brătianu, the Bessarabian votes were mainly drawn by the party's "far-left", reflecting the Bessarabian's public's rejection of the Romanian establishment. In Lăpușna County, the PȚB received backing from left-wing Jews, including formal pledges of support by the General Bund; the old leftist Zamfir Arbore successfully ran on the PȚB list for a Senate seat at Chișinău. 

Lastly, members of the PȚB administration were alleged by their political adversaries to have committed fraud and abuse of power, with the election taking place under a state of siege. Some consequently boycotted the election altogether. The Romanian League only put up candidates in Cahul County, which it won; it remained the only constituency not fully carried by the Peasantists. The PȚB had virtually no adversaries in Hotin and Ismail, for either the Assembly or the Senate. It was similarly unchallenged for the Assembly seats of Tighina. The Bessarabian Peasantists won the majority of regional votes and emerged as the third party nationally, with 72 seats in the Assembly—the PNL had 103, just ahead of its rival, the PNR, which had 99. Stroescu was the Assembly's oldest member, and as such entitled to lead procedures in the absence of an elected Assembly President; he was also the first Bessarabian to hold that distinction. The PȚB also sent 37 of its members to Senate, almost the totality of Bessarabian delegates to that chamber.

The victory of a unionist party was held in Romania as a democratic reconfirmation of the unification, and effectively a plebiscite. It was used as evidence of the union's legality by the PȚB itself, against the claims stated by the Bolsheviks, the White émigrés, and the Ukrainian People's Republic, all of whom demanded a partition of Bessarabia. Nevertheless, the PȚB also expressed reserves toward Romanian centralism, and, for a while, its leaders contemplated forming a purely regionalistic alliance with other deputies from Bessarabia, Bukovina, Transylvania and the Banat. As summarized by Cemârtan: "The Bessarabian elites and public opinion preferred to avoid the consecrated parties, since [their regional] extension could bring with it undesirable customs and methods."

The party only found ideological common ground with Ion Mihalache's Peasants' Party (PȚ), which had taken fourth place. The two groups agreed on principle to endorse a national platform of peasant rights and representation; delegates such as Bârcă began discussing the possibility of a fusion "sometime in the near future". In the Assembly, the PȚB had a crucial role to play: its deputies were vital to any governing coalition. On November 25, after intense debates, the PȚB and the PND agreed to back Parliamentary Bloc and its Prime Minister-designate, Alexandru Vaida-Voevod. The Bloc also comprised the PȚ, the PDU, and remnants of the Labor Party. Inculeț, Halippa and Pelivan were all appointed to ministerial office in the Vaida cabinet. On December 25, Alexandru Mîță, as deputy-elect of Bălți County, reportedly addressed Vaida a letter of protest, which referred to Romanian authorities as engaged in "terrifying crimes" against the Bessarabian populace. That text also argued that Bessarabians had come to resent Romanians as a whole, disparagingly referring to them as "Gypsies". As noted by academic Iulian Chifu, Mîță's appeal was much quoted in later autonomist and Moldovenist literature, but does not appear at all in parliamentary records.