[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kyle Foggo

ed for Goss when the outgoing CIA chief was House Intelligence Committee chair. Foggo denies giving Wilkes any such tip-offs, according to another source close to the outgoing CIA official; Bassett and lawyers for Wilkes and Cunningham had no comment.

The same day, the New York Daily News reported:

On May 12, 2006, law enforcement officials executed search warrants on Foggo's house and office. The same day, the Copley News Service reported that Foggo's home in Vienna, Virginia, had been raided by federal agents. The agents reportedly refused to answer questions about the purpose of the raid or what agency they represented.

On February 13, 2007, Foggo and Wilkes were indicted by the US Attorney's Office in San Diego.  Subsequently, Foggo pleaded "not guilty" to 30 counts of fraud, conspiracy and money laundering. Prosecutors dropped objections to moving the corruption case against the former CIA official from San Diego to Virginia.  This indictment was superseded and expanded with an indictment returned on May 10, 2007, charging fraud, conspiracy and money laundering in relation to his dealings with defense contractor Brent R. Wilkes.

On September 29, 2008, Foggo pleaded guilty to one count of the indictment, admitting that while CIA executive director he steered a CIA contract to the firm of his lifelong friend, Wilkes. In a presentencing report filed by prosecutors in February 2009, Foggo was also described as having a record of on the job corruption and off the job assaultive behavior stretching back 20 years.

Notes

References 
Exclusive: Top CIA Official Under Investigation, ABC News, March 3, 2006
 Contracting probe could extend to CIA GovExec.com, December 4, 2005
The CIA: Dust, Fog, and Dusty Foggo by Bill Walker, LewRockwell.com

1954 births
Living people
People of the Central Intelligence Agency
San Diego State University alumni
People from San Diego
People from Chula Vista, California
People convicted of honest services fraud
People from Vienna, Virginia
Hilltop High School (Chula Vista, California) alumni