[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bruce Ackerman

Bruce Arnold Ackerman (born August 19, 1943) is an American legal scholar who serves as a Sterling Professor at Yale Law School. In 2010, he was named by Foreign Policy magazine to its list of top global thinkers. Ackerman was also among the unranked bottom 40 in the 2020 Prospect list of the top 50 thinkers for the COVID-19 era.

Biography
Ackerman was born on August 19, 1943. He graduated from the Bronx High School of Science and received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Harvard University in 1964 as well as a Bachelor of Laws degree from Yale Law School in 1967. He clerked for U.S. Court of Appeals Judge Henry Friendly from 1967 to 1968, and then for U.S. Supreme Court Justice John Marshall Harlan II from 1968 to 1969.

Ackerman joined the faculty of University of Pennsylvania Law School in 1969.  He was a professor at Yale University from 1974 to 1982 and at Columbia University from 1982 to 1987.  Since 1987 Ackerman has been the Sterling Professor of Law and Political Science at Yale.  He teaches classes at Yale on the concepts of justice and on his theories of constitutional transformation (i.e., the Constitution of the Founders was transformed by the Civil War/Reconstruction and the New Deal).  His wife, Susan Rose-Ackerman, is also a professor at Yale Law School who teaches classes on administrative law.  Their son, John M. Ackerman, is also an academic who lives and works in Mexico.  Their daughter, Sybil Ackerman-Munson is an environmentalist in Portland, Oregon. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1986. He is also a Commander of the Order of Merit of the French Republic.

Ackerman is listed as counsel in U.S. Army Captain Nathan Michael Smith's lawsuit against President Barack Obama.  The lawsuit asserts five counts against the President: that Operation Inherent Resolve violates the War Powers Resolution, that the Constitution's Take Care Clause requires the President to publish a sustained legal justification of his actions, that the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists does not authorize the operation against ISIS, that the Iraq Resolution does not authorize the operation in Iraq, and that the Commander in Chief clause does not allow the President to authorize the operation.  Captain Smith's attorneys allege he has standing to sue because he will be personally liable for any damages he inflicts in an illegal war.  The White House responded that the lawsuit raises "legitimate questions".  After the district court dismissed the lawsuit as a political question, Ackerman appealed.

In 2022, Ackerman co-authored a Politico article with Gerard Magliocca predicting that the 2024 United States presidential election would divide the country into Democratic states that disqualify Donald Trump from appearing on the ballot under the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution for the January 6 United States Capitol attack and Republican states which would not, potentially leading to a constitutional crisis in which no candidate wins a supermajority of votes in the United States Electoral College and in which the United States House of Representatives either nominates Trump as the winner despite losing the electoral vote or is completely incapable of resolving the issue through a contingent election as constitutionally required.

Criticism of judicial review
Sandrine Baume identified Bruce Ackerman as a leading critic of the "compatibility of judicial review with the very principles of democracy," in contrast to writers like John Hart Ely and Ronald Dworkin. For his position as documented by Baume, Ackerman was joined in his opinion about judicial review by Larry Kramer and Mark Tushnet as the main proponents of the idea that judicial review should be strongly limited and that the Constitution should be returned "to the people."

Works
He is the author of fifteen books and more than eighty articles. His interests cover constitutional theory, political philosophy, comparative law and politics, law and economics, American constitutional history, the environment, modern economy and social justice.

His works include:
 1980: Social Justice in the Liberal State ()
 1991: We the People, Volume 1, Foundations ()
 1995: Is NAFTA Constitutional?, with David Golove ()
 1998: We the People, Volume 2, Transformations ()
 1999: The Stakeholder Society, with Anne Alstott ()
 2002: Voting with Dollars, with Ian Ayres ()
 2005: The Failure of the Founding Fathers ()
 2006: Before the Next Attack: Preserving Civil Liberties in an Age of Terrorism
 2010: The Decline and Fall of the American Republic ()
 2014: We the People, Volume 3: The Civil Rights Revolution ()
 2018: Revolutionary Constitutions: Charismatic Leadership and the Rule of Law ()