[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# CCJO René Cassin

CCJO René Cassin – more commonly known as René Cassin – is a charitable human rights NGO that works to promote and protect universal human rights, drawing on Jewish experiences and values.  The organisation does this by campaigning for change in defined human rights areas through a combination of advocacy, policy analysis, public campaigning and education and building the capacity of activists and lawyers to promote and protect human rights.  The organisation works in human rights areas that bear some relation to Jewish experience, such as discrimination, asylum, and genocide. The organisation holds special consultative status with the United Nations as a constituent organisation of the Consultative Council of Jewish Organisation (CCJO). The CCJO's first President was René Cassin, a principal drafter of the UN Declaration of Human Rights, who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1968 in recognition of his work for human rights as a jurist, academic and statesman. The CCJO has been an active supporter of efforts to increase the effectiveness of the UN's human rights treaties and institutional mechanisms in the intervening decades. From the 1940s to the 1970s it was involved in the creation of the United Nations human rights instruments, which form the basis of the UN's human rights activities today.

CCJO René Cassin negotiated the first-ever reference to group / collective rights in a United Nations Instrument (the Basic Principles on Rights to Victims). The principles were adopted by the UN General Assembly in November 2005. The group has also campaigned on refugee rights, genocide prevention, religious freedom, racial equality and international restitution issues.  René Cassin also offers human rights education programmes and training sessions.

The group is primarily focused in the UK, but has supporters throughout Europe, particularly in France.

Danny Silverstone is the organisation's current (2022) Chair, and Mia Hasenson-Gross its Executive Director.

The organisation was originally chaired by Alexander Goldberg who remains as the main delegate to the UN Human Rights Council and Daniel Kingsley.

Aims

René Cassin's Vision is of a world where:

 everyone fully enjoys all their human rights as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
 members of the Jewish community are actively engaged in promoting and protecting these rights, both within the community and in concert with stakeholders outside of the community.
 

René Cassin's Mission is to promote and protect the universal rights of all people, drawing on Jewish experiences and values, by:

 remaking a compelling case for human rights values
 campaigning for change in defined human rights areas through a combination of advocacy, policy analysis, public campaigning and education
 leading and growing a group of committed Jewish human rights advocates

History
In 2000, Clemens Nathan and other figures with experience of human rights work in the Consultative Council of Jewish Organisations (CCJO) took a group of young professionals to the former United Nations Commission on Human Rights (which has since been reformed into the Human Rights Council) in Geneva where they were exposed to the existing spectrum of Jewish voices focused on the importance of universal human rights. They were inspired to set up CCJO René Cassin (RC), aiming to provide Jewish voices on international human rights at the international and national levels. Nathan continued to support and inspire their developing work, seeking to draw new professional talent into the work done by the CCJO through the United Nations and in other human rights fora.

Since establishing its base in the United Kingdom at this time, RC has grown and professionalised.  In 2003, RC began to engage with the Jewish community in the UK to promote awareness of human rights and encourage activism, by hosting a series of high-level public events, including panel debates and conferences. Speakers at these events included Dame Ruth Deech, Dr Indarjit Singh and Peter Tatchell.

In 2005, RC launched an education programme for secondary schools in the UK on genocide, immigration and rights of the child. In 2005 alone, this programme reached over 3000 Jewish secondary school children. The organisation continued to prioritise education, developing education packs for teachers, and working with five major Jewish secondary schools to educate on the escalating situation in Darfur, Sudan.

RC continued to take delegations to the United Nations Human Rights Council with the support of the CCJO.  In 2005 as part of a campaign for restitution for victims of genocide, RC representatives negotiated the first-ever reference to group rights in a United Nations Instrument (the Basic Principles on Rights to Victims).