[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jay Lefkowitz

of the United States Constitution because a state may not regulate transactions that occur completely out of that state. In the case of the Maryland statute, the state statute was impermissibly regulating transactions between manufacturers and distributors that took place wholly outside of Maryland.

Notoriety for Representing Jeffrey Epstein in Controversial 2006 Florida Case
Mr. Lefkowitz is well-known for representing Jeffrey Epstein in a 2006 Florida case, and working with former colleague and Kirkland & Ellis partner Alexander Acosta, then US Attorney in Florida, to cut a deal   highly favorable to Epstein, which exonerated Epstein from the most serious offenses, bypassing the victims and painting Epstein's character as that of a benevolent benefactor figure with a compelling life story. ". In 2019, The Wall Street Journal published an article detailing the extent of Mr. Lefkowitz' work for the disgraced financier: "In letters and a meeting with the Manhattan office, the defense lawyers dismissed Florida police allegations of Mr. Epstein’s sexual encounters with girls as “inflammatory” and “unreliable” and portrayed him as a benefactor with a compelling life story who was “not in any way a typical sex offender.”.

Notable pro bono representation 
Lefkowitz has been deeply involved in the pro bono representation of New York parents who assert that the teacher-tenure system in place has led to inadequate education for countless students across the State because it often precludes dismissal of ineffective teachers. In 2018, a New York appellate court ruled that the case could go on, rejecting the State's argument that some changes the New York State Legislature had enacted necessarily served to solve the problems. Following that decision, Lefkowitz stated, "New York's constitution guarantees all children in the state a sound basic education, and the current teacher employment statutes are simply failing our children by keeping ineffective teachers in our public schools,... This decision will finally allow us to get the evidence from the State that will vindicate the rights of parents and children across the state."

In 2013–14, Lefkowitz provided pro bono representation to a group of chassidic storekeepers who had posted signs on their stores with a dress code involving modest clothing. The New York Commission on Civil Rights imposed significant daily fines on the storekeepers, asserting that the dress code constituted gender-based discrimination even though it applied to both men and women, and even though dress codes that actually do distinguish between genders are prevalent in many settings, including the courts and restaurants. On the eve of trial, following a ruling in the storekeepers' favor by the administrative judge, the Commission agreed to abandon its efforts to prosecute the storeowners

Writings 
In 2014, Lefkowitz authored an article for Commentary titled "The Rise of Social Orthodoxy: A Personal Account." The article describes a phenomenon in which some adherents of Jewish modern orthodoxy are motivated to adhere to certain ritual practices by a strong desire to belong to a social group with traditions, as opposed to being motivated by a commitment to abide by God's commandments and demands. Indeed, some members of the group, even those who pray regularly, may not even believe in a God who issues such decrees. The article triggered considerable critical response from some Orthodox rabbis and leaders. Commentary published a series of letters about the article, accompanied by Lefkowitz's response to each letter.

In 2009, Lefkowitz authored an article in Commentary titled "AIDS and the President--An Inside Account." Based on his service as deputy domestic policy adviser to President George W. Bush, Lefkowitz provided an account of the events leading to the United States making financial contributions of an unprecedented scope to the international fight against AIDS. Rebutting claims that President Bush was making token contributions just for show, Lefkowitz describes his observations of the President's deep moral commitment to fighting the epidemic, even to the point of providing funding to organizations that also perform abortions—something that drew bitter opposition from some core conservative groups.

Other
President George W. Bush appointed Lefkowitz to serve on the Honorary Delegation to accompany him to Jerusalem for the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the State of Israel in May 2008.

References 

1962 births
United States Department of State officials
Living people
American Orthodox Jews
Columbia Law School alumni
Politicians from Albany, New York
United States Special Envoys
People associated with Kirkland & Ellis
Lawyers from Albany, New York
Columbia College (New York) alumni