[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Davis (Tennessee politician)

ed on as cosponsor to other pending legislation including H.R.621, a House resolution that sought to "...amend part B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act to restore the Medicare treatment of ownership of oxygen equipment to that in effect before enactment of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005."

In 2007, Davis also cosponsored H.R.1398 to amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 by providing that manure shall not be considered to be a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant. H.R. 1398 was referred to the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment where it died.

During November 2007, Davis was quoted by the Mountain Press of Sevierville, Tennessee as favoring amnesty for illegal immigrants within the United States with his reported statement that "Most people in East Tennessee will welcome people with open arms if they come here legally," Davis said. "Illegal is illegal, though. I don't think the answer is deporting 12 million people, though."

In 2008, Davis was ranked very near the bottom (430th out of 435) of Knowlegis' power rankings for members of the House of Representatives, as reported by Congress.org.

Political positions
Davis was one of the most conservative members of the Tennessee House, and was no less conservative in Congress. He is particularly known for his strongly conservative stands on social issues.

In 2007, he garnered a perfect 100% score on the American Conservative Union’s 2007 Ratings of Congress.

See also
 USA Congressional staff edits to Wikipedia

References

External links

 Congressman David Davis official U.S. House website
 David Davis for U.S. Congress official campaign website
 

1959 births
Living people
Republican Party members of the Tennessee House of Representatives
East Tennessee State University alumni
Baptists from Tennessee
People from Johnson City, Tennessee
People from Unicoi County, Tennessee
Milligan University alumni
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Tennessee
21st-century American politicians