[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Milan Smith

re designed to prohibit—Smith argued that the majority's analysis "seems to erode the very protections a Sherman Act plaintiff has the right to enforce" by limiting the extent of the relief afforded to student-athletes despite their being "quite clearly deprived of the fair value of their services."

Other notable cases 
  On remand from the U.S. Supreme Court, Smith authored an opinion on behalf of a unanimous en banc panel that vacated the district court's judgment in favor of an employer and its benefits plan administrator on claims of breach of fiduciary duty in the selection and retention of certain mutual funds for a benefit plan governed by ERISA. Smith reasoned that federal law imposes on fiduciaries an ongoing duty to monitor investments, even absent a change in circumstances. Looking to the law of trusts, the duty of prudence requires fiduciaries to reevaluate investments periodically and to take into account their power to obtain favorable investment products, particularly when those products were substantially identical—other than their lower cost—to products they had already selected.
  Smith, writing for a unanimous three-judge panel and in a matter of first impression before the circuit courts, interpreted the Anti-Terrorism Act's proximate causation requirement for individuals seeking to bring civil actions. Plaintiffs, on behalf of family members who were killed by an ISIS attack while serving as government contractors in Jordan, argued that their injury was caused "by reason of" Twitter's material support of ISIS, because ISIS-affiliated individuals used Twitter. Applying the U.S. Supreme Court's analysis of statutes with similar language, Smith held that a plaintiff must show at least some direct relationship between the injuries that he or she suffered and the defendant's acts. Because plaintiffs failed to plead a connection between Twitter's provision of accounts to ISIS and the deaths of the government contractors, the panel dismissed their claims.
  Writing for a 2-1 majority, Smith vacated an arbitration award issued to Monster Energy after an arbitrator failed to disclose his ownership interest in JAMS, the alternative dispute resolution provider that had administered the arbitration. The panel explained that because the arbitrator's ownership interest in JAMS was sufficiently substantial, and because JAMS repeatedly arbitrated matters involving Monster Energy, the relationship should have been disclosed based on the U.S. Supreme Court's holding that vacatur of an arbitration award is supported where the arbitrator fails to "disclose to the parties any dealings that might create an impression of possible bias." On June 29, 2020, the U.S. Supreme Court denied cert.

See also
Udall family
Lee-Hamblin family

References

External links 

U.S. Department of Justice Profile
Fotouhi, David, "From Worst to First?: Judge Smith Describes Improving the Ninth Circuit," Harvard Law Record, April 24, 2008.
"Senate approves Smith's brother for federal appeals court," The Associated Press, May 17, 2006
"White House Looks at Two Names for Ninth Circuit," The Recorder, November 9, 2005

1942 births
21st-century American judges
American Latter Day Saints
Brigham Young University alumni
Judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
Living people
People from Pendleton, Oregon
Udall family
United States court of appeals judges appointed by George W. Bush
University of Chicago Law School alumni