[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Xavras Wyżryn

ing the partitions of Poland. People living inside the "Atomic Triangle" became hardened nearly soulless creatures, balanced on the edge of death and became numb because of the great suffering of the whole nation. Meanwhile, the Soviets had some minor border conflicts with China, Sweden and Prussia.

The status quo lasted until 1988, when Xavras Wyżryn appeared. He quickly organised a considerable guerrilla force, commanded his troops with uncommon charisma and valour and fought the Soviets on their own ground. His legend quickly spread around the world, and his victories inspired other nations to fight against the Soviets. Many local conflicts started, when Hungary, the Balkans, Czechoslovakia and Ukraine also started their own revolutions against Soviet occupants. In the south, the power of the Islamic empire increased under the command of a figure known only as Muhammad's Son. The war in the Middle East began and was reminiscent of the old wars between the Russian Empire and the Ottoman Empire. In the east, China took the opportunity to attack the weakened Soviets and started yet another conflict. The whole Central-Eastern Europe was now known the European War Zone (EWZ), and reached as far as Constantinople in the south, Finland in the north, the border with Prussia in the west and the Dnieper River in the east. Battles took place mostly on radiated polluted territory.

Main plot
The plot of the novel starts in 1996. The whole European War Zone is no man's land, and its Soviet control is based on a strategy of "shoot first, ask questions later". Various partisan groups in an uneasy truce one another are scattered throughout the area and engaged in battles against small Soviet garrisons. German troops make occasional raids across the Polish border to test Soviet defences, and the Soviets retaliate in kind. Meanwhile, China's forces advance toward the Ural Mountains, and Muhammad's Son prepares a jihad in the Middle East. The US government secretly finances the guerrillas, and Western Europe fortifies its borders to defend against presumed Soviet or a Chinese attack, the latter of which is more feared.

Main characters
Colonel Xavras Wyżryn is the commander of the AWP or Armia Wyzwolenia Polski (Polish Liberation Army), a considerable guerrilla force fighting the Soviet army in the European War Zone. His past is a mystery. He was born within the "Atomic Triangle" and has a visible mutation - the skin on his hands is red, as if burned. He was a junior officer in the Red Army, until he deserted and formed the AWP. He is a truly charismatic leader, inspiring his men to do unbelievable things, even sacrificing their lives for the "higher cause". For the freedom of his country he is capable of killing everyone standing in his way, including women, children and even his own men, calling this a "sacrifice for a better future". He is seen as a terrorist by the Soviets and as a romantic, tragic hero in the West. In the United States, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer has even made a blockbuster movie about him, entitled "Uncatchable". A major US news network signed a contract with Wyżryn, offering him $250 million for exclusive interviews and footage from battlefields. Xavras understands the importance of media and propaganda in modern warfare, so he censors the footage before it is sent to the network and makes himself a television celebrity.
Ian Smith - US news reporter sent by the network to film Xavras' actions. Because of his Polish descent and linguistic abilities, he is the network's natural choice after the previous reporter attached to Wyżryn was killed in action. Raised in a democratic country, he has moral doubts about Xavras and considers his brutal methods no better than the Soviet ones. The story is told from his point of view.
Jewriej (English: Yevrey) - Xavras' mysterious aide and advisor, with his face hidden behind a Balaclava, because of his alleged disfigurement, the result of mutation. It is said that radiation gave him precognition abilities and that Xavras is using them to escape Russian ambushes and to plan his actions.
Sienkiewicz's Triple - Three trusted companions of Xavras, who took their names (Michał, Andrzej and Jan) after the characters from the books of Henryk Sienkiewicz. Their missions are mostly undercover and they can almost literally disappear. It is they who lead Smith to Xavras' hideout.
Two Bodyguards - Xavras' guards, which are named by Ian after the biblical quotes printed on their T-shirts, because he does not know their real names and they look like twin brothers: "Another Horse Came Out, a Fiery Red One" (Revelation 6:4) and "The Sea Gave Up the Dead" (Revelation 20:13). Their fighting skills are exceptional and they are Xavras' most trusted soldiers.