[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# COPS (animated TV series)

e job done. Appearing in "The Case of Mukluk's Luck", "The Case of the Iron C.O.P.S and Wooden Crooks", and "The Case of the Red Hot Hoodlum" where he had major roles in those episodes. CheckPoint's toy File Card says his "father was a member of a top-secret military team in the '80s and '90s", referencing G.I. Joe character Beach Head (AKA Wayne R. Sneeden). He is representative of a U.S. Army military police officer.
 Hy "Taser" Watts (voiced by Len Carlson) – A police officer who worked with the Seattle Police Department and is known for tasering crooks who try to resist arrest. He appeared in a few episodes, but his major role was in "The Big Boss's Big Switch".
 Robert E. "A.P.E.S." Waldo – A police officer who worked with the Boston Police Department. He has a pair of long grappling hand devices similar to LongArm's powercuffs. A.P.E.S. is short for Automated Police Enforcement System. He appeared in "The Case of the High Iron Hoods".
 Roger "Airwave" Wilco – A police officer who worked with the Los Angeles Police Department and is a good communications expert.
 Francis "Inferno" Devlin – A firefighter who worked with the San Francisco Fire Department. He appeared in a few episodes including "The Case of the Bad Luck Burglar".
 Dudley "Powderkeg" Defuze – A police officer who worked with the Washington D.C. Police Department that is known for disarming and defusing bombs and other types of explosives. He helped Squeeky Kleen neutralize the Midas Glove that Squeeky wore in "The Case of the Midas Touch".
 Max "Nightstick" Mulukai – A police officer who worked with the Honolulu Police Department and is an expert in martial arts. He appeared in a few episodes including "The Case of the Missing Memory".
 Sherman A. "Heavyweight" Patton – A military officer who worked at Fort Leavenworth. He joined up with COPS where he serves as their A.T.A.C. (short for Armored Tactical Attack Craft) driver.

C.R.O.O.K.S.
C.R.O.O.K.S. is a crime syndicate that commits crimes in Empire City. Known members include:

 Brandon "Big Boss" Babel (voiced by Len Carlson imitating Edward G. Robinson) – The primary villain of the series. Brandon "Big Boss" Babel is a crime lord who plans to rule Empire City with a literal iron fist and he is also a businessman while in public. He is portrayed as being obese, yet is able to walk normally. 
 Scratch – Big Boss' pet weasel with metal paws and cybernetic armor. He is always seen in the company of Big Boss.
 Berserko (voiced by Paul De La Rosa) – Barney L. Fatheringhouse is an impulsive, dim-witted thug who is the proud nephew of Big Boss. He is called "Berserko" because his methods are often seen as crazy or bizarre. Berserko once robbed a party supply store wearing a mask he just bought from the same store.
 Rock Krusher (voiced by Brent Titcomb) – Edmund Scarry is a super-strong thug who works for Big Boss. He often uses a heavy-duty jackhammer in order to get into bank vaults. At one point, Rock Krusher was romantically involved with fellow super-strong operative Ms. Demeanor. He wears striped-clothes reminiscent of an old prisoner's uniform.
 Ms. Demeanor (voiced by Paulina Gillis) – Stephanie Demeanor is a middle-aged, super-strong woman with the appearance of a normal businesswoman. She works for Big Boss. Ms. Demeanor has the muscular physique of a champion bodybuilder and often gets upset when people accuse her of not being feminine.
 Turbo Tu-Tone (voiced by Dan Hennessey) – Ted Stavely is a minion of Big Boss who serves as his getaway driver. He is a skilled mechanic and pilot as well. Turbo Tu-Tone was the one responsible for causing the car wreck that resulted in Baldwin P. Vess gaining a cybernetic torso.
 Doctor Badvibes (voiced by Ron Rubin) – Dr. Percival "Percy" Cranial is a brilliant, though completely deranged mad scientist. Ever since he was fired from Comtrex Technologies Incorporated for stealing top secret electronics, he works for Big Boss devising inventions for his plans and robotic minions for Big Boss's gang. Doctor Badvibes has a glass dome on top of his head which shows his abnormally large brain and is known to create literal brainstorms by charging electricity through his brainwaves to form a cloud that can produce rain, thunder, and lightning.
 Buzzbomb (voiced by Ron Rubin) – A robot created by Doctor Badvibes for companionship that works for Big Boss. He has a buzzsaw on one arm and a clamper on the other. Buzzbomb also seems to have a personality that counters and/or complements Doctor Badvibes in a lot of ways.
 WALDO – A small robot created by Doctor Badvibes that once impersonated Bulletproof to take over and sabotage C.O.P.S.
 Shifty – A shape-shifting android created by Doctor Badvibes.
 Nightmare the Android – An android was created by Doctor Badvibes.
 Nightshade (voiced by Jane Schoettle) – Rafaella Diamond was born into a rich family. She ended up disowned by her parents when she turned to crime stealing expensive and exotic jewellery for th