[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Palorchestes

have sprawled when the animal was walking quadrupedally. Palorchestes likely used its forelimbs to attain foliage, and may have fed in a bipedal posture. Due to the extreme rarity of its remains, some authors have interpreted it as a solitary animal that had large ranges and slow reproductive rates.

Reconstructions 
Following Owen and other workers' conceptions as a macropidid, a very large ancestor of the modern kangaroos, the Australian Museum in Sydney commissioned a model reconstruction that was exhibited during the early decades of the 20th century. A general-interest story with a photographs and details describing the process of the construction, reproducing a "giant kangaroo" that could attain 10 ft in height, was published in the magazine of the museum.
Revisions to size and form of the genus, still as a large kangaroo, reduced its estimated size and posture in the 1940s, and a new model was completed in 1945.
When Jack Woods presented his evidence of its relationship to the diprotodont, the directors of the national museum ordered their reconstruction to be destroyed. Mike Archer reports that the model is rumoured to be buried in the grounds of Sydney's Centennial Park.

The rostrum of the genus was discussed by Alan Bartholomai in 1978, altering again the conception of the animals' appearance in a visual reconstruction of P. painei.
An illustration by Peter Schouten was published by the Australian Museum, adopting the tapir-like model that became widely popularised.
The later conception of an animal more like a ground sloth was produced by Anne Musser in the early 21st century.

Ancient rock art depicting animals such as thylacines, thought to have become extinct on the mainland, has been interpreted to include depictions of Palochestes; the outline of the painting an animal resembles the later ground sloth model in the reconstruction by Musser and others.

References

Sources

External links
Australia's Vanished Beasts - Palorchestid - illustration by Frank Knight
 Museum of Victoria  - illustration by Peter Trusler
 Australian Museum factsheet - illustration by Anne Musser

Prehistoric vombatiforms
Prehistoric mammals of Australia
Prehistoric marsupial genera
Miocene marsupials
Pliocene marsupials
Pleistocene marsupials
Fossil taxa described in 1873
Miocene genus first appearances
Pleistocene genus extinctions