[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bill Arnsparger

William Stephen Arnsparger (December 16, 1926 – July 17, 2015) was an American college and professional football coach. He was born and raised in Paris, Kentucky, served in the United States Marine Corps during World War II, and graduated from Miami University (Ohio) in 1950. Immediately upon graduation, Arnsparger was hired as an assistant coach with the Miami football program, beginning a long career in the profession.

Arnsparger is best known for serving as a defensive coordinator in the National Football League (NFL) for Miami Dolphins teams that won consecutive Super Bowls (1972 and 1973) and reached another (1982), all under head coach Don Shula. Arnsparger's defenses were an important part of the Dolphins' success, and earned two nicknames over his tenure – the "No-Name-Defense" in the 1970s and the "Killer B's" in the 1980s. Later in his career, he served as the defensive coordinator for another Super Bowl runner-up, the 1994 San Diego Chargers.

Before coaching in the NFL, Arnsparger served as a defensive assistant for several college football teams. He was also the head coach of the New York Giants (1974–1976) and the Louisiana State University (LSU) Tigers (1983–1986), and served as the athletic director at the University of Florida (1986–1992).

Early years
Arnsparger was born in Paris, Kentucky, in 1926. He attended Paris High School, where he was an all-state football player under the school's longtime football and basketball coach, Blanton Collier. The relationship would have a major impact on his future career.

After serving in the United States Marines during World War II, Arnsparger attended Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, where he played for the Miami football team under coach Woody Hayes and was a member of Sigma Chi Fraternity (Alpha Chapter). He graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in 1950.

College assistant coach

Miami University
After graduating, Arnsparger remained at Miami to begin his coaching career as an assistant under Hayes for the 1950 season. Miami went 9-1 and were Mid-American Conference champions.

Ohio State
Woody Hayes was hired as the head coach of the Ohio State Buckeyes in 1951 and brought Arnsparger with him from Miami to serve as the Buckeyes' line coach, a position he held through the 1954 season.

Kentucky
In 1954, Arnsparger re-connected with his high school coach Blanton Collier, who had been hired as head football coach at the University of Kentucky in Lexington, Kentucky. Arnsparger was hired as an assistant at Kentucky and remained there for the eight years until Collier was fired on January 2, 1962. During the 1959 season, he was joined on the coaching staff by a young coach who had served at the University of Virginia the previous year. That coach was Don Shula, with the two coaches forging a strong bond that would tie them for much of the next quarter century.

Tulane
Arnsparger moved on to an assistant position with Tulane University in New Orleans, in 1962. After two years, he resigned the post on March 6, 1964, to become the defensive line coach for the Baltimore Colts under Shula.

National Football League

Baltimore Colts
In 1964, Arnsparger became the defensive line coach for the Baltimore Colts of the National Football League (NFL). That season, the Colts reached the NFL Championship Game and remained one of the strongest teams of the 1960s, competing in Super Bowl III on January 12, 1969.

Miami Dolphins
When Shula left to become head coach with the Miami Dolphins after the end of the 1969 NFL season, he brought along Arnsparger, who was promoted to defensive coordinator. In just two seasons, the formerly moribund team had reached the Super Bowl, with Arnsparger fashioning what became known as the "No-Name Defense." World championships in each of the next two seasons, including an undefeated season during 1972, made Arnsparger a prime candidate for a head coaching position.

New York Giants
Following the Dolphins' 24–7 victory over the Minnesota Vikings in Super Bowl VIII, Arnsparger was named head coach of the New York Giants, but managed just seven wins in his thirty-five games. Arnsparger coached the Giants in three different home stadiums during his tenure: the Yale Bowl in New Haven, Connecticut, in 1974; Shea Stadium, home of the cross-town rival Jets in 1975; and finally, Giants Stadium in 1976. Arnsparger was fired in mid-season on October 25, with the team having lost all seven of its games, succeeded by assistant coach John McVay.

Return to the Dolphins
Just two days after his dismissal from the Giants, Arnsparger was rehired by Shula and was restored to his previous position as Miami's defensive coordinator while adding the title of assistant head coach. In the team's first game under his leadership, the Dolphins won a 10–3 defensive battle with the New England Patriots, who had averaged thirty points per game entering the contest.