[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Globalization and disease

on confirmed cases. Deaths in The United States have crossed 798,000, maintaining the highest death count of any country. Brazil, Russia, Spain, UK, and Italy have all suffered because of the increase in cases, leading to an impaired health system unable to attend to so many sick people at one time.

The first-ever confirmed case of COVID-19 in the United States was in Washington State on January 21, 2020. It was a man who had just returned from China. Following this incident, on January 31, 2020, Trump announced that travel to and from China is restricted, effective on February 2, 2020. On March 11, 2020, Trump issues executive order to restrict travel from Europe, except for the UK and Ireland. On May 24, 2020, Trump bans travel from Brazil, as Brazil becomes the new center of the coronavirus pandemic. International restrictions were set to decrease international entities of entering a country, potentially carrying the virus. This is because governments understand that with the accessibility in travel and free trade, any person can travel and carry the virus to a new environment. Recommendations to U.S. travelers have been set by the State Department. As of March 19, 2020, some countries have been marked Level 4 "do not travel". The coronavirus pandemic travel restrictions have affected almost 93% of the global population. Increased travel restrictions effectively aid multilateral and bilateral health organizations to control the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19.

Non-communicable disease

Globalization can benefit people with non-communicable diseases such as heart problems or mental health problems. Global trade and rules set forth by the World Trade Organization can actually benefit the health of people by making their incomes higher, allowing them to afford better health care. While it has to be admitted making many non-communicable diseases more likely as well. Also the national income of a country, mostly obtained by trading on the global market, is important because it dictates how much a government spends on health care for its citizens. It also has to be acknowledged that an expansion in the definition of disease often accompanies development, so the net effect is not clearly beneficial due to this and other effects of increased affluence. Metabolic syndrome is one obvious example. Although poorer countries have not yet experienced this and are still having the diseases listed above.

Economic globalization and disease 
Globalization is multifaceted in implementation and is objective in the framework and systemic ideology. Infectious diseases spread mainly as a result of the modern globalization of many and almost all industries and sectors. Economic globalization is the interconnectivity of world economies and the interdependency of internal and external supply chains. With the advancement of science and technology, the possibility of economic globalization is enabled even more. Economic factors have been defined by global boundaries rather than national. The cost of activities of economic measures has been significantly decreased as a result of the advancements in the fields of technology and science, slowly creating an interconnected economy lacking centralized integration. As economies increase levels of integration and singularity within the partnership, any global financial and economic disruptions would cause a global recession. Collateral damage is further observed with the increase in integrated economic activity. Countries lean more on economic benefits than health benefits, which lead to a miscalculated and ill-reported health issue.

See also

 Chagas disease
 Eradication of infectious diseases
 Global catastrophic risk
 Infectious disease
 List of epidemics
 Pandemic
 Transmission (medicine)
 Tropical disease
 Virgin soil epidemic
 Wildlife smuggling and zoonoses

References 

Biological globalization
Global health
Infectious diseases