[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Military enrolment in German-occupied Poland

ies in prisoner-of-war camp for Afrika Korps soldiers. After realizing that a high number of prisoners were Polish, the British and the Polish Armed Forces in the West created a special section aimed at recruiting POWs to serve the allied cause. Recruitment efforts intensified in the summer of 1943.

In January 1944, after Henry Maitland Wilson expressed concern over the lack of Polish replacement troops, General Władysław Anders assured him replacements would be recruited at the front lines. In the Polish II Corps, there were 2,500 ex-POWs by June 1944, a number which rose to 18,500 by 1945. Anders' optimism was well-founded, and thanks to POW recruitment the Polish army in the West ended the war as a larger formation than it had started as when the Italian campaign began. Aside from recruits from the Wehrmacht, the Anders Army also absorbed 176 former soldiers from the 14th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Galician).

Ultimately, nearly 90,000 Poles formerly employed by the Wehrmacht served in the Polish Armed Forces in the West. By Victory Day in 1945, nearly a third of Polish soldiers in the West had formerly served in the German military.

On the Eastern Front, prisoner-of-war camps for Wehrmacht soldiers were a significant recruitment pool for the Polish Armed Forces in the East.

Postwar
Having served in the German military or being a descendant of such individuals ("grandfather in the Wehrmacht") has led in Poland to repression, discrimination and ostracization. Even in the 21st century, such people are often seen as not being an integral part the Polish national community.

During the 2005 Polish presidential election, Donald Tusk was attacked by Law and Justice's Jacek Kurski because his grandfather had served in the Wehrmacht.

References

Military history of Poland during World War II
Military history of Germany during World War II
Polish collaborators with Nazi Germany

Further reading
- W znienawidzonym mundurze. Losy Polaków przymusowo wcielonych do wojska niemieckiego w okresie II wojny światowej - [Accessed 19/1/2021] In Polish, but with many articles and books on the matter.

- Deutsche Volksliste [Accessed 19/1/2021] In German.