[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human trafficking in the Philippines

F reported evidence of growing child pornography production in Angeles City.
Children as young as ten years old have been rescued from brothels in Angeles.

STD cases rose five times. The RHWC treated 1,421 cases in 2005, 2,516 cases in 2006 and 6,229 cases in 2007. Most of the afflicted were women.

Pagsanjan, Laguna
CNN stated in 2010 that "A decade ago, Pagsanjan, located about 60 miles south of Manila, became known as a popular location for men seeking homosexual prostitutes." Pagsanjan began to attract an increasing number of child molesters. "In the '80s, Pagsanjan was declared by international gay publications as a paradise for them, a gay paradise, a haven for homosexuals", said Dr. Sonia Zaide, an activist who is particularly concerned by the expansion of the town's sex trade to include minors, mostly young boys.
Time magazine reported in 1993 that Pagsanjan was a favorite destination for sex tourists seeking children.
The Filipino government began a crackdown on the child sex industry in Pagsanjan and 23 people of varying nationalities were arrested.
Foreign child molesters take advantage of the poverty, with children often being used as sexual currency by their own parents. The World Bank World Development Report for 1995 reported that the town of Pagsanjan through civic action had dramatically reduced child prostitution.

Davao City
October 5 has become the Day of No Prostitution Campaign in Davao City.
In 2005, the Philippine Information Agency reported documented cases of children as young as 10 years old forced into prostitution in Davao.
Davao provinces, along with the Caraga region, have become the favorites of child traffickers posing as tourists.

Cebu
In 2001, it was estimated there were 10,000 young girls trafficked into sex slavery in Cebu. "What has become very obvious is a growing market for child prostitutes," said Father Heinz, a Catholic priest who has been involved for more than a decade in initiatives to beat the pimps and child-traffickers. It was reported in 2009 that Cebu remained a destination, source and transit area for human trafficking, where women and children victims are brought to be "processed". It was reported in 2005 that Cebu had been the destination of international and domestic trafficking of children, aged from 11 to 17 years old.

Pampanga
More than a dozen of cybersex operations have been busted in the Pampanga province and Angeles City areas, this resulted in the rescue of hundreds of exploited women, most of them minors or below 18 years of age. Hundreds of computers sets have been seized, including sex toys and other gadgets used in the cybersex operations mostly maintained by foreigners.
A forum hosted by the Prosecution Law Enforcement and Community Coordinating Service (proleccs) discussed several factors that contribute to the human trafficking problem and these include poverty, the proliferation of underground cybersex through internet and sex tourism.

Lucena City
Lucena ports have been identified by anti-human trafficking advocates as transit points used by syndicates engaged in the recruitment of innocent women from remote areas destined for prostitution dens in other parts of the country.

Subic Bay
In 1988 a Naval Investigative undercover operation based in Subic Bay were offered children for sex as young as four.
Many of those involved in the prostitution of children have been brought to justice in the courts. Most of the 16,000 women estimated to have worked the bars around the largest overseas naval base were forced into the sex industry.
One 16-year-old child tells of her experience in Subic Bay: "She was locked in a room for a month, starved and force-fed drugs and alcohol to ensure she was addicted and could be more easily controlled. She was often beaten unconscious for refusing to have sex with customers." Pregnancy, abortion, the spread of disease and drug abuse were just some of the indignities imposed on Filipinas.
Despite the US pull-out from Subic Bay in 1992, continues to fester, catering to a new generation of civilian sex tourists. The former naval base, and current visits by American military have been the subject of protests by welfare groups and activists in Subic. Brandishing placards and chanting slogans, members of WAIL and GABRIELA called for justice for all victims of human rights abuses.

Olongapo
Trafficking of Women and Children in Olongapo was rampant during the time of the Subic Naval Base located close by. 
In 1988, the US Naval Investigative Service confirmed the existence of child prostitution in Olongapo City.
After the base closure a new child molesters clientele from countries such as Australia and Europe moved in.
Olongapo special prosecutor Dorentino Z. Floresta states, "Politicians do not want people to know that these things are happening in Olongapo," said Floresta.