[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Review site

saging, and private messaging.  Some function as a form of dating service, in that for a fee they allow users to contact other users.  Many social networks and other sites include rating features.  For example, MySpace and TradePics have optional "rank" features for users to be rated by other users.

Subject matter
One category of rating sites, such as Hot or Not or HotFlation, is devoted to rating contributors' physical attractiveness.  Other looks-based rating sites include RateMyFace.com (an early site, launched in the Summer of 1999) and NameMyVote, which asks users to guess a person's political party based on their looks. Some sites are devoted to rating the appearance of pets (e.g. kittenwar.com, petsinclothes.com, and meormypet.com).  Another class allows users to rate short video or music clips.  One variant, a "Darwinian poetry" site, allows users to compare two samples of entirely computer-generated poetry using a Condorcet method.  Successful poems "mate" to produce poems of ever-increasing appeal.  Yet others are devoted to disliked men (DoucheBagAlert), bowel movements (ratemypoo.com), unsigned bands (RateBandsOnline.com), politics (RateMyTory.Com), nightclubs, business professionals, clothes, cars, and many other subjects.

When rating sites are dedicated to rating products (epinions.com), brands (brandmojo.org), services, or businesses rather than to rating people (i-rate.me), and are used for more serious or well thought-out ratings, they tend to be called review sites, although the distinction is not exact.

History 
The popularity of rating people and their abilities on a scale, such as 1–10, traces back to at least the late 20th century, and the algorithms for aggregating quantitative rating scores far earlier than that.  The 1979 film 10 is an example of this.  The title derives from a rating system Dudley Moore uses to grade women based upon beauty, with a 10 being the epitome of attractiveness.  The notion of a "perfect ten" came into common usage as a result of this film. In the film, Moore rates Bo Derek an "11".

In 1990, one of the first computer-based photographic attractiveness rating studies was conducted.  During this year psychologists J. H. Langlois and L. A. Roggman examined whether facial attractiveness was linked to geometric averageness.  To test their hypothesis, they selected photographs of 192 male and female Caucasian faces; each of which was computer scanned and digitized.  They then made computer-processed composites of each image, as 2-, 4-, 8-, 16-, and 32-face composites.  The individual and composite faces were then rated for attractiveness by 300 judges on a 5-point Likert scale (1 = very unattractive, 5 = very attractive).  The 32-composite face was the most visually attractive of all the faces.  Subsequent studies were done on a 10-point scale.

In 1992, Perfect 10 magazine and video programming was launched by Xui, the original executive editor of Spin magazine, to feature only women who would rank 10 for attractiveness. Julie Kruis, a swimsuit model, was the original spokesmodel.  In 1996, Rasen created the first "Perfect 10 Model Search" at the Pure Platinum club near Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  His contests were broadcast on Network 1, a domestic C-band satellite channel.  Other unrelated "Perfect 10" contests became popular throughout the 1990s.

The first ratings sites started in 1999, with RateMyFace.com (created by Michael Hussey) and TeacherRatings.com (created by John Swapceinski, re-launched with Hussey and further developed by Patrick Nagle as RateMyProfessors).  The most popular of all time, Hot or Not, was launched in October 2000.  Hot or Not generated many spin-offs and imitators.  There are now hundreds of such sites, and even meta-sites that categorize them all. The rating site concept has also been expanded to include Twitter and Facebook accounts that provide ratings, such as the humorous Twitter account WeRateDogs.

Criticism 
Most review sites make little or no attempt to restrict postings, or to verify the information in the reviews.  Critics point out that positive reviews are sometimes written by the businesses or individuals being reviewed, while negative reviews may be written by competitors, disgruntled employees, or anyone with a grudge against the business being reviewed. Some merchants also offer incentives for customers to review their products favorably, which skews reviews in their favor. So called reputation management firms may also submit false positive reviews on behalf of businesses.  In 2011, RateMDs.com and Yelp detected dozens of positive reviews of doctors, submitted from the same IP addresses by a firm called Medical Justice.