[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Operational transformation

rtions at different nodes.
 Exclusion transformation (or backward transformation): ET (Oa, Ob) or , which transforms operation Oa against another operation Ob in such a way that the impact of Ob is effectively excluded. This is, for example, the case of an insertion and a deletion at different nodes

For example, suppose a type String with an operation ins(p, c, sid) where p is the position of insertion, c is the character to insert and sid is the identifier of the site that has generated the operation. We can write the following inclusion transformation function:

 T(ins(),ins()) :-
  if () return ins()
  else if ( and ) return ins()
  else return ins()

Let's consider also the operation del(p,sid) regarding to the deletion of one character at position p at site sid. We can write the following exclusion transformation function:

 (ins(),del()) :-
  if () return ins()
  else if ( and ) return ins()
  else return ins()

Some OT systems use both IT and ET functions, and some use only IT functions. The complexity of OT function design is determined by various factors:

 the functionality of the OT system: whether the OT system supports do (consistency maintenance), undo, locking, awareness, application sharing, etc.;
 the correctness responsibility in the OT system: what transformation properties (CP1/TP1, CP2/TP2, IP2, IP3, RP) to meet; whether ET is used;
 the operation model of the OT system: whether the OT operation model is generic (e.g. primitive insert, delete, update), or application-specific (all operations of the target application); and
 the data model of the OT system: whether the data in each operation is character-wise (an individual object), string-wise (a sequence of objects), hierarchical, or other structures.

Transformation properties
Various transformation properties for ensuring OT system correctness have been identified. These properties can be maintained by either the transformation control algorithm or by the transformation functions. Different OT system designs have different division of responsibilities among these components. The specifications of these properties and preconditions of requiring them are given below.

Convergence properties

 
The following two properties are related to achieving convergence.

 CP1/TP1: For every pair of concurrent operations  and  defined on the same state, the transformation function T satisfies CP1/TP1 property if and only if:  where  denotes the sequence of operations containing  followed by ;and where  denotes equivalence of the two sequences of operations. CP1/TP1 precondition: CP1/TP1 is required only if the OT system allows any two operations to be executed in different orders.
 CP2/TP2: For every three concurrent operations  and  defined on the same document state, the transformation function T satisfies CP2/TP2 property if and only if: . CP2/TP2 stipulates equality between two operations transformed with regard to two equivalent sequences of operations: the transformation of  against the sequence of operation  followed by  must give the same operation as the transformation of  against the sequence formed by  and . CP2/TP2 precondition: CP2/TP2 is required only if the OT systems allows two operations  and  be IT-transformed in two different document states (or contexts).

Inverse properties
The following three properties are related to achieving the desired group undo effect. They are:

 IP1: Given any document state S and the sequence , we have , which means the sequence  is equivalent to a single identity operation I with respect to the effect on the document state. This property is required in an OT system for achieving the correct undo effect, but is not related to IT functions.
 IP2: The property IP2 expresses that the sequence  has no effect on the transformation of other operations. The transformation functions satisfy IP2 if and only if: , which means that the outcome of transforming  against the sequence  is equivalent to the outcome of transforming  against the identity operation I. IP2 precondition: IP2 is required only if the OT systems allows an operation  to be transformed against a pair of do and undo operations , one-by-one.
 IP3: Given two concurrent operations  and  defined on the same document state (or context), if  and . The transformation functions satisfy the property IP3 if and only if , which means that the transformed inverse operation  is equal to the inverse of the transformed operation . IP3 precondition: IP3 is required only if the OT system allows an inverse operation  to be transformed against an operation  that is concurrent and defined on the same document state as (or context-equivalent to) .

OT control (integration) algorithms