[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of social nudity places in North America

orcing it pending a challenge to the constitutionality of the ordinance.
 South Beach in Miami Beach permits topless sunbathing, partially due to the large number of foreign tourists and immigrants that frequent the beach. Additionally, a few hotel pools in Miami Beach also allow female toplessness.

Private resorts and campgrounds
 Caliente Tampa is a clothing-optional resort in Land o' Lakes. A membership is required to visit, but visitors can obtain daily memberships. The resort has a hotel on site with a large pool, many smaller pools, a hot tub and volleyball pools.
 Camp David near Inverness is a private , secluded clothing-optional campground catering to gay men. The camp is heavily wooded with three small lakes. Membership is required, but day passes may be purchased.
 Casa Alegra Clothing Optional B&B in Sarasota County is part of Clothing Optional Home Network and is an AANR Participating Business.
 Eden RV Resort (formally, Gulf Coast Resort) in Hudson in Pasco County is a  RV resort north of Tampa.
 First Coast Naturists is a non landed, AANR chartered and TNS affiliated Meetup Group, based in Jacksonville, Florida, and encourages nonsexual nudist recreation in the First Coast region of Northeast Florida.
 The Island Group in Land o' Lakes is a  private nudist island, founded in 1948 with a nice quiet atmosphere, a lovely pool and hot tub.
 Key West Private Charters offers 4-hour, 6-hour, 8-hour snorkeling, scuba diving, sunset and custom power boat trips on which nudity is permitted. The trip launches from the Dream Catchers boat dock at College Drive in Key West. There are other companies offering private charters that allow nudity as long as the boat is  out in the sea where nudity is legal.
 Lake Como Family Nudist Resort in Lutz, Pasco County is Florida's oldest, which began operation on April 25, 1941. It is a resident-owned cooperative of  in a very natural setting, of which  are registered as woodland and  as wetland. Six lakes are within or border the property. Non-resident memberships in the resort are available, and free tours are available for those interested.
 Lake Linda Circle in Land o' Lakes is a fenced nudist community on Leonard Road, founded in 1998 is probably the first residential nudist mobile home park in Florida, and maybe North America.
 Next Generation Naturists is a non-landed organization promoting the nonsexual naturist lifestyle, focused to the young adult (18- to 35-year-old) demographic.
 Paradise Lakes in Pasco County is a clothing optional lifestyle resort, which is famed for their "bubble parties" and water volleyball. It changed ownership in 2021 and is now focusing more on lifestyle/swinger clientele.
 Paradise Pines RV Park in Lutz is a nudist RV park with 81 lots, a pool and clubhouse.
 Riverboat Club on Caliente Boulevard in Land o' Lakes was formed in July 1990 and has since grown into a popular vacation spot. It is a private membership club and is home to more than 25 people year round. Hundreds of Tampa Bay area naturists visit regularly and during special events. Many visitors camp out for a day, weekend, monthly or year-round.
 Riviera Naturist Resort in Pace features activities on-site in a secluded part of Santa Rosa County in the Florida Panhandle.
 Sawmill in Dade City is a fenced gay nudist community, founded in 1945 on  with about 160 homes on site.
 Sunny Sands Resort, is a clothing-optional resort community located in Pierson, Florida.
 Sunshine Beach Club, also called Florida Naturist Park, in Hudson is a nudist subdivision with  and 42 homes, founded in 1959.
 SunSport Gardens in Palm Beach County offers acres of natural outdoors with recreation facilities and camping.
 Suwannee Valley Resort in White Springs, Florida, is a AANR chartered clothing-optional resort, featuring pools, hot tubs, bars and restaurant facilities. SVR is situated next to the Suwannee River and provides discounts for veterans, law enforcement and firefighters.
 Vitambi Springs near Clewiston is a private all-male clothing optional campground. The resort is nearly 200 acres. Membership is required.
 The Woods RV Park in Land o' Lakes is an upscale clothing-optional RV park and resort that opened in 2008 with lots for sale and for rent. It boasts a  clubhouse and heated pool.