[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Moses in rabbinic literature

arded in the future world, but this was not revealed to him.

Piety was not burdensome to him. His prayers were immediately answered. He was so prominent a figure that his authority was equal to that of an entire sanhedrin of seventy-one members, or even of the whole of Israel.

His prophetic powers

Aside from the Torah, Moses wrote also the Book of Job and some Psalms, and introduced many regulations and institutions. On account of the excellence of his prophecy he is called "the father," "the head," "the master," and "the chosen of the Prophets". While all the other prophets ceased to prophesy after a time, Moses continued to talk with God and to prophesy throughout his life; and while all the other prophets beheld their visions as through nine spectacles (espaklarya) or through dim ones, Moses beheld his as through one clear, finely ground glass. Balaam surpassed him in prophecy in two respects: (1) Balaam always knew when God was about to speak with him, while Moses did not know beforehand when God would speak with him; and (2) Balaam could speak with God whenever he wished, which Moses could not do. According to another tradition, however, Moses also could speak with God as often as he wished. The fact that God would speak with him unawares induced Moses to give up domestic life, and to live separated from his wife.

His modesty

Moses' modesty is illustrated by many fine examples in aggadah. When God pointed to Rabbi Akiva and his scholarship, Moses said: "If You have such a man, why do You reveal the Torah through me?". When Moses descended from heaven, Satan came to ask him where the Torah was which God had given to him. Moses said: "Who am I? Am I worthy to receive the Torah from God?" When God asked him why he denied that the Torah had been given to him, he replied: "How can I claim anything which belongs to You and is Your darling?" Then God said to him: "As you are so modest and humble, the Torah shall be called after you, the 'Torah of Moses'".

Moses' modesty never allowed him to put himself forward (e.g., in liberating Israel, in dividing the sea, and subsequently also in connection with the Tabernacle) until God said to him: "How long wilt thou count thyself so lowly? The time is ready for thee; thou art the man for it". When Moses had made a mistake, or had forgotten something, he was not ashamed to admit it. In his prayers he always referred to the merits of others, although everything was granted to him on account of his own merit.

See also
 Moses in Judeo-Hellenistic literature
 Moses in Islam

References

Biblical figures in rabbinic literature
Rabbinic Literature