[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Julian Moti

ew Guinea to Solomon Islands 

After his arrest in Papua New Guinea in September 2006, Moti was released on bail pending an extradition hearing, but went into hiding in the Solomon Islands High Commission in Port Moresby. (He later claimed that his life had been threatened, and so sought sanctuary.)

The Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands Governments denied knowledge of his whereabouts, but on 10 October he was secretly flown aboard a Papua New Guinea Defence Force aircraft to Solomon Islands where he was arrested by officers of RAMSI on his arrival in Munda, Western Province. When he left PNG, Moti was in breach of the bail conditions imposed by Madam Justice Catherine Davani of the PNG National Court, and had failed to appear at a PNG court hearing on 30 September.  The PNG Government declined to say who in the PNG Defence Force or Government had given the order to fly Moti out. In response, the Australian Government immediately cancelled planned visits by the PNG Prime Minister, Grand Chief the Right Honourable Sir Michael Somare, and Defence Minister Martin Aini, and postponed the annual Australia-PNG Ministerial Forum, and called for an investigation into the flight and prosecution of whoever was responsible. A PNG Defence Force Board of Inquiry into the escape has since recommended that Sir Michael Somare and a number of his advisers be charged with offences in relation to the escape, including breaching PNG's constitution. Somare has sought to suppress the Inquiry's report, challenging the Inquiry's standing in PNG's National Court. As yet the Court has not ruled on the validity of Somare's challenge to the public release of the Commission of Inquiry's findings, with the presiding judge likening Somare's attempts to suppress the findings of the report as a scandal on par with Watergate.

The Howard government in Canberra insisted that in its pursuit of Moti there is no political agenda with respect to ongoing issues between it and the Solomon's government of Manasseh Sogavare, while Prime Minister Sogavare insisted that Moti's arrest constituted a violation of Solomon Islands' national sovereignty, and Mr Moti himself has described the charges as a politically motivated "witch-hunt".

Sogavare faced much criticism from the former Howard government for his refusal to allow the extradition of Moti. Sogavare and Sir Michael Somare stated that they considered that the Australian Government were politically persecuting Moti and that a new trial was uncalled for as the issue was "unconditionally concluded in Vanuatu in 1999" and the Australian government had failed to produce any new evidence to justify an extradition.

On 10 July 2007, the then-Prime Minister Sogavare appointed Moti as Attorney General of the Solomon Islands. The Government of SI subsequently sent 666 questions to Australian Director of Public Prosecutions, Damian Bugg , regarding the affair. The 666 questions can now be read online.

Extradition from the Solomon Islands to Australia
In December 2007, Solomon Islands Prime Minister Sogavare was toppled in a vote of no confidence. It has been suggested that Sogavare's refusal to extradite Moti was the main cause of the Prime Minister's downfall. Opposition leader Fred Fono promised in November that Mr Moti would be extradited if the opposition came to power. The Fiji Times suggested that Mr Moti might then flee to Fiji. After Derek Sikua was elected prime minister later in December, he said that Mr Moti would be deported to Australia.

On 24 December, it was reported that Moti's position as attorney general had been terminated by the Sikua government, and that he faced a deportation order. Moti appealed unsuccessfully to the Solomon Islands High Court to halt the extradition process.

Prime Minister Sir Michael Somare of Papua New Guinea at this point has reportedly "threatened local media with contempt of court over their calls for the official release of the PNG Defence Force Inquiry report that recommends he faces charges" and Somare reportedly does not now support Mr Moti. It does not yet reliably appear that any untoward payment has been made to Somare for his alleged part in Moti's passage through Papua New Guinea.

On 27 December, Mr Moti  was extradited to Australia and was arrested on arrival. On 4 January 2008 Moti was granted bail, set at A$100,000, with the conditions that he report to police daily, reside with his parents, and, surrender his passport, (travel documents) within 7 days, matter to be heard again on 15 February 2008. On 14 March 2008, Moti's lawyers asked for more time to prepare for his committal hearing, with the matter adjourned by the Court until April.