[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rehman Dheri

hanging on a string. This type of steatite seal became common in the later Indus cities.

No writing was discovered, though some type of notations on the pottery were observed. These 'potter’s marks', engraved or painted, are "strikingly similar to those appearing in the Mature Indus symbol system".

At Kunal in Haryana, a button seal was discovered during 1998-99 excavations by Archaeological Survey of India. The seal is similar to the Rehman Dheri examples. It contained a picture of two deer on one side, and geometrical pattern on other side. The similar specimen at Kunal is datable to , and it is older than Rehman-Dheri, which makes Kunal site an older cultural ancestor of Rehman Dheri.

Archeological phases

In Rehman Dehri the archeological sequence is over 4.5 meters deep and it covers a series of over 1,400 years that was begun at c. 3,300 BC. Reham Dehri characterizes different periods which includes the period from c. 3300-2850 BC, c. 2850-2500 BC, and the last is from c. 2500-1900 BC.

In its earliest phases it is accepted that the settlement receives its formal planning and that consequent stages extended the plan over time.  Even though the excavators have cut a number of deep trenches into the lower levels, the uncovered area was too limited to study the spatial sharing of craft activities. So the occupation of Rehman Dheri may have been more ancient than is presently attested.

In the middle of the third millennium BC, at the beginning of the mature Indus phase, the site was abandoned. There was limited reoccupation.

Some more records are found at the neighbouring archaeological mound Hisham Dheri''.

Due to the recent developments, the plans of the Early Harappan settlement were disturbed.

This site represents the earliest urban settlement on the sub-continent, with a very rich bead industry. It was earlier than the Kot Diji-Sothi complex.

Tochi-Gomal Cultural Phase 
Recent research has revealed a Tochi-Gomal Cultural Phase in the Gomal Plain of Northwest Pakistan. Rehman Dheri was a part of that cultural sequence.

This was the culture that flourished in the Bannu Basin and Dera Ismail Khan region of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa at the end of Neolithic Age.

 "Typological and chronological sequence suggests that the Tochi-Gomal Phase co-existed for a certain period with other contemporaneous regional cultures of South Asia such as the Ravi (Ravi-Hakra) Phase in the Punjab; Amri-Nal culture in Sindh; Togau & Kechi Beg Phases in Baluchistan, and Sothi-Siswal culture in Rajasthan, India."

The Tochi-Gomal Phase followed the local Neolithic phase, as represented in this area at Jhandi Babar. After Tochi-Gomal, the Kot Diji culture followed, and it was also represented at Rehman Dheri, as well as at nearby Gumla.

The inscribed seals and sherds of Tochi-Gomal phase may have contributed significantly to the development of the writing system of the mature Indus Civilization. The animals and the symbols depicted on the earliest seal found at Rehman Dheri remind us of the animals and symbols as were portrayed later during the Mature Indus Civilization.

Also, it was during the Tochi-Gomal phase that the progress from handmade to wheel thrown pottery had occurred.

See also

 Indus Valley civilization
 Hydraulic engineering of the Indus Valley Civilization
 List of Indus Valley Civilization sites
 List of inventions and discoveries of the Indus Valley Civilization
 Periodisation of the Indus Valley Civilisation
 Kunal, Haryana

Notes

External links 
Nadine Zubair (2016), Rehman Dheri: One of the earliest planned cities in South Asia. harappa.com

Former populated places in Pakistan
Archaeological sites in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Pre-Indus Valley civilisation sites
Kot Diji culture