[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Atlanta in the American Civil War

d a letter from a correspondent named "Civis". His letter was dated December 15 and reiterated the amount of damage done to Atlanta during the war. The reporter estimated that "about three fourths of the buildings have been torn down or burned, and about nine-tenths of the property value destroyed".

Throughout the month of December 1864 more and more citizens returned to the city. An article appeared in the December 15, 1864, issue of the Augusta Chronicle & Sentinel. The paper reported that "many of the old citizens are returning, and the general watchword is repair and rebuild". The article states that "Whit Anderson had opened a barroom on Decatur Street where he serves his customers with dignity and grace and Sid Holland a small grocery on Peachtree Street". The article goes on to describe a city rebuilding.

Elections were held with James Calhoun being reelected as Mayor. The city council held its first meeting on Jan. 6, 1865; the city treasury held $1.64. Rev. H. C. Horandy preached a service at the First Baptist Church on Sunday, Dec. 25, 1864. By April, 1865, five churches where holding services.

After the Battle of Bentonville, Gen. Joseph E. Johnston surrendered the Army of Tennessee and all remaining Confederate forces still active in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida at Bennett Place, NC, on April 26, 1865. On May 4, 1865, Union Col. Beroth B. Eggleston of the First Ohio Cavalry received the surrender of Confederate and state troops in Atlanta from Lt. Col. L. J. Glenn, commander of the post of Atlanta.

Aftermath

The fall of Atlanta was especially noteworthy for its political ramifications. The capture and fall of Atlanta were extensively covered by Northern newspapers, and significantly boosted Northern morale. Lincoln was re-elected easily.

Following the war Federal troops returned to Atlanta to help enforce the provisions of Reconstruction.

References
Notes

Citations

Further reading

Online 
 MEMOIRS OF GENERAL W. T. SHERMAN
 A brief history of the American Civil War
 Who Burned Atlanta?
 Why Sherman was right to burn Atlanta
 Atlanta as Left by Our Troops
 Fort X
 The New Georgia Encyclopedia - Atlanta
 Touring itinerary of modern Atlanta's Civil War sites and places
 Atlanta Cyclorama and Civil War Museum
 University of Georgia website for Georgia in the Civil War
 Civil War Sites in Georgia
 General William T. Sherman's order to evacuate Atlanta, (Special Field Orders No. 67), 4 September 1864. From the collection of the Georgia Archives.
 Civil War records available for research at the National Archives 
 Webcast Lecture by Russell S. Bonds author of War Like the Thunderbolt at the Pritzker Military Library on May 6, 2010

Georgia (U.S. state) in the American Civil War
Atlanta
History of Atlanta