[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kalavai

Kalavai is a panchayat town in Ranipet district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The main occupation represented in the area is farming.
The town has a pond and a lake after rainy season. Villagers use the lake water and palar river for irrigation.
Corporation Bank, State Bank Of India and Indian Bank are the banks that have branches in the locality. The secondary occupation is garment outlets.
One government higher secondary school is also located in a nearby village.

Demographics 
 India census, Kalavai has a population of 11000 as on year 2011. Males constitute 50% of the population and females 53%. Kalavai has an average literacy rate of 68%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 71%, and female literacy is 59%. In Kalavai, 13% of the population is under 6 years of age.

History 
The modern town of Kalavai, in Kalavai taluk of Ranipet district, Tamil Nadu, situated about 100 km from Madras, is a village of historic importance from the time of the Pallavas since the 8th century AD. Ancient relics and inscriptions relating to the village are found in the local Siva temple named Thirukkaraesvara Temple. Probably the temple was built by one Thirukkarai and hence the name Thirukkaraesvara (an analogy with Rajarajeshvara). If so the history of the village could be traced to the Sangam age. The area was under the control of the Malaiyamāns of Thirukkoiyilur where ruled the famous chieftain Malaiyamān Thiru-mudikkārai who has been sung by eminent Sangam poets like Avvaiyar, Paranar, and Kapilar. It is not unlikely that Thirukkarai of this family built the Siva temple after whom it came to be called Thirukatisvaram. The Sthala purāna of the village seems to support this antiquity. Its close link to Malaiyanur may be seen in the sequence.

There is also Angalaparameshwari Amman Temple, which is more than 100 years old and is very famous in the southern Indian states like Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala. People are seen regularly visiting the temple to recover from black magic effects.

Climate 
The taluk has fairly healthy climate. The study area has distinctly high temperature in hot months and cold weather is for a short duration.

The climatic seasons are generally classified as follows:
 Cold season from November to January with a mean maximum and minimum temperature of 30 °C and 21 °C respectively.
 Warm season from February to March and from July to October with a mean maximum and minimum temperature of 45 °C and 30 °C respectively.
 Hot season from April to June with a mean maximum and minimum temperature of 35 °C and 27 °C respectively.

The main maximum temperature during summer normal occurs in the month of May while the minimum temperature in winter occurs in January.

The north-east monsoon gives most of the rains.  The average rainfall for a year is found to be 700 mm. The maximum rainfall occurs during the month of September and October due to north-east monsoon.

Economy
Kalavai is the principal market for the surrounding agricultural area. It also has a viable local weaving industry and ground nut oil industry. Kalavai is also most famous for edible oil production, mainly focusing on groundnut oil production.
More oil extractors are available in and around Arcot. There are number of rice mills  and supermarkets are also available in the town.

Demographics

Politics
J.L.Eswarappan is the sitting MLA and S. Jagathrakshakan is sitting Member of Parliament, both from Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK).

Kalavai is part of Arcot Assembly Constituency. Arcot assembly constituency is part of Arakkonam (Lok Sabha constituency). R.Srinivasan is the sitting Chairperson of the Municipality from ADMK.

Transport 
The main mode of transport is by bus since it is economical, and well connected by road. A State highway and two District State highways pass through by Kalavai. There are frequent buses to almost parts of Tamil Nadu. Buses depart every 15 to 20 minutes from Kalavai to Arcot town and there are also buses to Kancheepuram, Bangalore, Chennai, Cheyyar, Arni, Pondycherry, Vandhavasi, Vazhapanthal. There are lot of private bus operators as well, who provide services on local and short-distance routes. The nearest railway station to Kalavai is Walaja Road, which is around 30 km from Kalavai. There are buses (Route 30,34 And Short Cut) between Arani and Kancheepuram very frequently and also straight buses Available. The local bus from Arcot to Kalavai is route no.30,31,32,34,41,42. Buses depart every 20–30 minutes from Arcot Town to Kalavai.

The nearest railway station is Walajah Road station 30 km from the town lying between Arakkonam and Vellore-Katpadi Junction 40 km. The new broad gauge line from Tindivanam to Nagari via Walajah Road Junction will pass through nearby Timiri. It will function within one year.

The routemap from Arcot to Kalavai en route .