[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Customs union

ies within the customs union to directly produce and sell locally in order to bypass uniform tariff and non-tariff barriers. This objectively generates capital inflows that accompany the transfer of production, attracting large amounts of foreign direct investment.

Lists of customs unions

Current 

Additionally, the autonomous and dependent territories such as some of the EU member state special territories are sometimes treated as separate customs territories from their mainland states or have varying arrangements of formal or de facto customs union, common market and currency union (or combinations thereof) with the mainland and in regards to third countries through the trade pacts signed by the mainland state.

The European Union is a customs union and therefore sets a common external tariff.

Proposed 
2010  Southern African Development Community (SADC)
2011 Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS)
2015  Arab Customs Union (ACU)
2023  African Economic Community (AEC)

Defunct 
Customs and Economic Union of Central Africa (UDEAC) – superseded by CEMAC
  1925 French Customs Union over occupied Territory of the Saar Basin
The former Zollverein of the Holy Roman Empire and the succeeding German confederations
   Steuerverein or Tax Union in north-west Germany
  Custom Union between Lebanon and Syria
Czechia and Slovakia from the dissolution of Czechoslovakia on 1 January 1993 until both countries' accession to the European Union on 1 May 2004.

Further reading 
 The McGill University Faculty of Law runs a Regional Trade Agreements Database that contains the text of almost all preferential and regional trade agreements in the world. ptas.mcgill.ca
 Michael T. Florinsky. 1934. The Saar Struggle. New York: The Macmillan Company.

See also 
 European Customs Information Portal (ECIP)
 List of international trade topics
 Trade creation
 Trade diversion

References

External links 
 Agreements Notified to the GATT/WTO and in Force

 
Commercial policy
Economic integration
Trade blocs