[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# People's Electoral Movement (Venezuela)

ld create a plan for the economy to benefit the common good, and distribute wealth with regards to the work each individual completes. Similarly, Prieto Figueroa states that steps towards socialization are only taken when the state is under heavy influence by the power of the working class.

History

Origen 
The MEP was born from a leftist sector of Democratic Action (AD) in 1967 as a result of internal struggles in the party over the presidential elections. Because of this, the president of the AD, Luis Beltran Figueroa decided to retire from the organization along with many other notable leaders, such as Jesús Ángel Paz Galarraga. This signified the third division of the AD all within the decade, but the creation of the MEP is considered the most successful due to their leading figures and the powerful positions they achieved in the presidential and parliamentary elections of 1968. From the moment the MEP was created, leftist parties were divided. Some were still in a war against Raúl Leoni's government, while others preferred abstentionism. The Communist Party of Venezuela retired from this armed fight even though they didn't have the authority to participate under this name. Before this event, a leftist party emerged that proposed changes to a democratic socialist system and national liberation, which signified putting power in the hands of the working class and workers from both the city and the countryside. They also proposed that oil and basic industries become social property, while the state takes control over natural resources, education, basic health services, social security, and other similar entities.

It is important to note that Nicolás Maduro García, the father of Nicolás Maduro Muros (Venezuela's current president), was one of its founders.

References

https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1354068898004004005

1967 establishments in Venezuela
Bolivarian Revolution
Intervened political parties in Venezuela
Left-wing nationalist parties
Political parties disestablished in 2007
Political parties established in 1967
São Paulo Forum
Socialist parties in Venezuela