[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Northern Patrol

o follow, comprising full director systems, watertight magazines and shell rooms made of steel, broadside mess decks with hammocks, four paravanes per ship, the removal of more woodwork and thirteen 6-inch gun sets taken from C- and D-class cruisers once they were re-armed as anti-aircraft cruisers.

Due to equipment shortages, the ships were fitted with six to nine 6-inch guns (some with 5.5-inch), two to four 3-inch or 4-inch anti-aircraft guns, several smaller guns and roll-off racks for a small number of depth charges. The guns and mountings were old, their ammunition had to be carried by hand and at 20° elevation reached their maximum range of only , the guns had director control but very little shielding. The armament of the C- and D-class cruisers had been intended for the AMCs but the decision to keep the cruisers in service precluded this. Royal Navy captains or commanders were put in command of the vessels, mostly dug-outs from retirement, accompanied by Navy first lieutenants, navigation and gunnery officers, some of whom were also Navy personnel and the rest of the officers were drawn from the RNR, some being the civilian officers of the ships, RNVR and T.124 agreement (voluntary enlistment and subject to RN discipline whilst retaining civilian rates of pay and conditions). A retired officer was embarked to help find neutral and belligerents' trawlers, often known to the trawler skippers and on good terms, which helped when bartering for part of the trawlers' catch. Ratings were drawn from the RN, RFR, RNR, RNVR, "hostilities only" and former Merchant Navy ratings on special agreements.

The accommodations of AMCs were greatly superior to those on RN ships, even when fittings were removed to reduce the risk of fire. Lounges became wardrooms and junior ranks had a gunroom (junior officers' mess). Some cabins were used by chief and petty officers but most were demolished to make way for broadside messes to avoid delays when called to action stations. Holds and other spaces were filled with barrels or  oil drums as buoyancy ballast and called ping-pong balls. Even when laden with war stores the ships did not reach the peacetime GRT and carried heavy ballast of roadstone or iron to maintain stability. Horton was uneasy at the new arrivals whose crews were somewhat unready for hostilities and boarded each ship with his technical officers to help the process of familiarisation with Navy methods. Horton asked for more long-range reconnaissance aircraft. Three days after  had been torpedoed at Scapa Flow on 14 October 1939, the first seven AMCs arrived and by the end of November eleven AMCs were on patrol; Rawalpindi had already been sunk.

Armed merchant cruisers 1939–1941

Sinking of Rawalpindi

SS Rawalpindi was requisitioned for the Northern Patrol by the Admiralty on 26 August 1939 and converted into an armed merchant cruiser. Eight elderly 6 in (150 mm) guns and two 3 in (76 mm) guns were added and the ship named . On 19 October in the Denmark Strait, Rawalpindi intercepted the German tanker Gonzenheim (4,574 grt), which had left Buenos Aires on 14 September. The tanker was scuttled by her crew before a boarding party could get on board. The ships sent a wireless message but this was not received by the Germans.

On 26 September 1939, restrictions on the operation of the two German battleships Scharnhorst and Gneisenau in the Atlantic were terminated and after several short voyages, Grand Admiral Erich Raeder concluded that they were not vulnerable to the three Home Fleet battlecruisers in British home waters. On 12 November the  (SKL, Naval Warfare Command) of the  (High Command of the Navy) decided to send the ships past the British ships watching the Faroes–Iceland gap or those between Shetland and Norway, to threaten the British sea lanes in the North Atlantic. The operation was intended to be a feint, to divert British ships from the hunt for Graf Spee in the South Atlantic. The battleships sailed on 21 November and on 13 November reached the Faroes–Iceland gap. At  Scharnhorst sighted a ship, opened fire from  then both ships began to rescue survivors.