[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Luang Wichitwathakan

his personal crusade as both a historian and a politician, as well as chairman of the parliamentary committee in charge of making the name change, succeeded in changing the name of the country from Siam to Thailand when the state convention ratified the committee's proposal in 1939.

Wartime service

In 1942, Wichitwathakan became Minister of Foreign Affairs under Prime Minister Field Marshal Pibulsongkram and was responsible for negotiating free passage for the invading Japanese army in exchange for maintaining the sovereignty and independence of Thailand. He then assumed the duty of Thai Ambassador to Japan. 

Upon the unconditional surrender of Japan to the Allies at the end of World War II, Wichitwathakan was arrested by the US occupying forces along with the German ambassador, Italian ambassador, and the entire Japanese cabinet. His wife, Khunying Wichitwathakan, requested and obtained a personal audience with General Douglas MacArthur during which she succeeded in explaining to him that as foreign minister, her husband had no alternative but to negotiate a treaty of free passage in exchange for maintaining the independence of Thailand. MacArthur released Wichitwathakan and allowed him to return to Thailand on an American airplane.

Wichitwathakan was arrested upon arrival and imprisoned by the new postwar government of Khuang Aphaiwong. He was incarcerated with former prime minister Pibulsongkram, to be tried in Thai court as war criminals. Among the principal allied forces, the British and the French wanted Pibulsongkram and Wichitwathakan to face the firing squad while the US alone insisted on a trial. All charges against them were eventually dropped for lack of corroborating evidence. Field Marshal Pibulsongkram and Luang Wichitwathakan were acquitted of all political accusations and released.

Post-war service

After having been granted freedom, Wichitwathakan temporarily dissociated himself from politics and became a nationally prominent playwright, author, and historian. Most of his plays, songs, fictions as well as history and religious books were composed during the three years following his release from incarceration.

In 1947, Wichitwathakan assisted Field Marshal Pibulsongkram in staging a coup d'état which toppled the existing government from power. Wichitwathakan served in the new government as Minister of Finance and Minister of Economic Affairs and subsequently became Ambassador to India in 1952 and Ambassador to Switzerland, Austria, and Yugoslavia in 1953. He also promoted the unification and nationalism of the people of Thailand by composing a series of nationalistic theatrical works, known as the Anupap series, which were performed at the National Theater. This series of plays, titled Anupap Porkoon Ramkamhaeng (Power of King Ramkamhaeng), Anupap Haeng Kwam Seasala (Power of Sacrifice), Anupap Haeng Kwam Rak (Power of Love) were composed at the urging of Pibulsongkram with the purpose of strengthening the unity and cohesiveness of the Thai people.

In 1958, Luang Wichitwathakan participated in the coup d'état staged by Field Marshal Sarit Thanarat that removed Pibulsongkram from power. Wichitwathakan assumed the title of Paladbunchagarn () of the Prime Minister's Office, equivalent to the permanent secretary. He served Field Marshal Sarit as his closest confidant and advisor and played an active role in promoting Thai nationalism.

Wichitwathakan died in 1962 at age 64 after a long cardiac illness.

Appointments
1934–1942: Director General of the Department of Fine Arts
1942–1943: Minister of Foreign Affairs
1943–1945: Ambassador to Japan
1951–1952: Minister of Finance
1952: Minister of Economic Affairs
1952–1953: Ambassador to India
1953–1957: Ambassador to Switzerland, Austria and Yugoslavia
1957–1962: Paladbunchagarn (Permanent Secretary to the Office of the Prime Minister)
1959–1962: Secretary-General of the National Security Council

Published works

Plays
 Leod Supan (Blood of Supan) 
 Rachamanu 
 Suek Talang (Battle of Talang 
 Pra jao Krung Thon (King of Thonburi) 
 Tai Dab Na (Death at next Sword) 
 Po Kun Pa Mueng (King Pa Mueng) 
 Petch Pra Narai (Diamond of King Narai 
 Lan Leod Lan Rug (Territory of Blood Territory of Love) 
 Sriharajdecho 
 Dab Saen Mueng (Sword of a Hundred Thousand Cities) 
 Pra Naresuan Pragard Issarapap (King Naresuan Declares Independence) 
 Rachatida Pra Ruang (Royal Daughter of Pra Ruang) 
  Jao Ying Gannigar (Princess Gannigar) 
 Jao Ying Sanwee (Princess Sanwee) 
 Krut Dum (Black Garuda) 
 Anupap Po Kun Ramkamhang (Power of King Ramkamhang) 
 Anupap hang Kwam Rug (Power of Love) 
 Anupap Hang Kwam Seasara (Power of Sacrifice)

Fiction