[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniela Santanchè

2006, while she was participating in a live show, Controcorrente, to discuss matters regarding the Islamic veil, Santanchè was criticized by the Imam of Segrate. The prefect of Milan stated that her safety was at risk and he would consider the possibility of taking security measures to protect her.

On 20 September 2009, she appeared with Diego Zarneri at the Eid al-Fitr religious holiday in Milan. According to Muslims, Santanchè tried to unveil some women, causing a reaction by local men. In her version, Santanchè said she had asked the police to intervene, alleging that Italian law bans appearing in public with a veil, and that she had made no contact with any Muslim woman. Afterwards, she declared she had been assaulted and beaten, but this was denied by Muslim eyewitnesses. At the hospital, she was examined and found to have chest bruises, that would take 20 days to heal. On 25 September on the il Fatto Quotidiano newspaper, a short video shot by Peacereporter seems to disprove any alleged assault on Santanchè. In the video, Santanchè is shown trying to cross the police barrier, while no assault on her is shown. Santanchè's lawyers dismissed the video as a fabrication, releasing a copy of the reports by the hospital and by the police.

2011 diploma scandal
On 22 March 2011, the magazine Oggi published an article stating that although on her resume Santanchè claimed to have an MBA from the Bocconi University, the university itself had no record of having awarded her any such degree. Santanchè did not resign, claimed she was telling the truth and threatened to sue the magazine for libel. No evidence of her degree has turned up, although it appears that she did attend another, unspecified, course at the university.

Tax fraud investigations
On 5 July 2023, it was found she had been under investigation for false accounting since September 2022. However, she did not resign from her position as minister.

References

External links
'Mud-slinging divas battle over mantle of Mussolini', The Observer, 30 March 2008

1961 births
Living people
People from Cuneo
National Alliance (Italy) politicians
The Right (Italy) politicians
The People of Freedom politicians
Forza Italia (2013) politicians
Brothers of Italy politicians
Deputies of Legislature XIV of Italy
Deputies of Legislature XV of Italy
Deputies of Legislature XVII of Italy
Senators of Legislature XVIII of Italy
Politicians of Piedmont
Women government ministers of Italy
Italian critics of Islam
21st-century Italian women
Meloni Cabinet
Government ministers of Italy
Women members of the Chamber of Deputies (Italy)
Women members of the Senate of the Republic (Italy)