[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Virginia in the American Civil War

nal protections for southern rights. Over Lincoln's skepticism, Baldwin argued that Virginia would be out of the Union within forty-eight hours if either side fired a shot in the vicinity of the fort. By some accounts, Lincoln offered to evacuate Fort Sumter if the Virginia convention would adjourn.

Events then outpaced the convention. On April 6, amid rumors that the North was preparing for war, the convention voted by a narrow 63–57 to send a three-man delegation to Washington to determine from Lincoln what his intentions were. On that same day, Lincoln informed the Governor of South Carolina that a ship with food but no ammunition would attempt to reinforce Fort Sumter. An April 9 Confederate cabinet meeting resulted in President Davis ordering General P. G. T. Beauregard to take the Fort before supplies could reach it. The delegation reached Washington on April 12, having been delayed by bad weather. But that morning, Confederate forces had already opened fire on Fort Sumter, beginning the Civil War. The delegates learned of the attack on Fort Sumter from Lincoln, and the president informed them of his intent to hold the fort and respond to force with force. Reading from a prepared text to prevent any misinterpretations of his intent, Lincoln told them that he had made it clear in his inaugural address that the forts and arsenals in the South were government property and "if ... an unprovoked assault has been made upon Fort Sumter, I shall hold myself at liberty to re-possess, if I can, like places which have been seized before the Government was devolved upon me."

News of the Fort's fall reached Richmond on the evening of April 13. Jubilant crowds poured into the streets and expressed fervent secessionist desire. Richmond reacted with large public demonstrations in support of the Confederacy on April 13 when it first received the news of the attack. A 100 gun salute was fired at the state capitol in honor of the victory. The American flag was lowered from over the capitol building, replaced with the Confederate flag. Crowds shouted for "Jeff Davis," "the Southern Confederacy," and "Dixie's Land."

The convention reconvened on April 13 to reconsider Virginia's position, given the outbreak of hostilities. With Virginia still in a delicate balance, with no firm determination yet to secede, sentiment turned more strongly toward secession on April 15, following President  Lincoln's call to all states that had not declared a secession, including Virginia, for sending troops to assist in halting the insurrection and recovering the captured forts.

The quota of Virginia's state militia called for, in the table attached to this letter, was three regiments which would have a total of 2,340 men to rendezvous at Staunton, Wheeling and Gordonsville. Governor Letcher and the recently reconvened Virginia Secession Convention considered this request from Lincoln "for troops to invade and coerce" lacking in constitutional authority, and out of scope of the Act of 1795. Governor Letcher's "reply to that call wrought an immediate change in the current of public opinion in Virginia", whereupon he issued the following reply:

April 17 marked the effective secession of Virginia. Ex-Governor Henry A. Wise gave a fiery speech in which he announced that as he spoke the Virginia militia was seizing the Federal armory at Harper's Ferry, which had only a few years prior been the subject of John Brown's raid. So too was the Gosport Navy Yard about to be seized. At Gosport, the Union Navy, believing that several thousand militia were headed their way, evacuated and abandoned Norfolk, Virginia, and the navy yard, burning and torching as many of the ships and facilities as possible. Thereafter, the secession convention voted, provisionally, to secede, on the condition of ratification by a statewide referendum. That same day, the convention adopted an ordinance of secession, in which it stated the immediate cause of Virginia's declaring of secession, "injury of the people of Virginia'' and ''the oppression of the Southern slave-holding States".

Historian Ed Ayers, who felt that "even Fort Sumter might have passed, however, had Lincoln not called for the arming of volunteers", wrote of the convention's final decision:

Secession

Virginia's ordinance of secession was ratified in a referendum held on May 23, 1861, by a vote of 132,201 to 37,451.

The Confederate Congress proclaimed Richmond to be new capital of the Confederacy and Confederate troops moved into northern Virginia before the referendum was held. The actual number of votes for or against secession are unknown since votes in many counties in northwestern and eastern Virginia (where most of Virginia's unionists lived) were "discarded or lost." Governor Letcher "estimated" the vote for these areas.