[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

lots the Gundam Zabanya during the fight with the ELS. While Dynames and Cherudim both have a sniping scope trigger, Zabanya doesn't, as the first two were designed with Neil's  Sniping Style, while Lyle is more a "happy trigger" (despite the fact that his on-hit per shot ratio is incredibly high). 

  
 Allelujah Haptism spent his childhood as an orphan in the Human Reform League as a Super Soldier experimental subject in a supersoldier project, designated "E-57", while his true name is forgotten, he is "baptised" by Marie Parfacy as "Allelujah" when they met for the first time when they were children at the Super Soldier Institute (at that moment Marie had lost her five senses so she was bedridden and could only communicate using her quantum brainwaves, being E-57 the very first person who could hear her and answered her, she gives him that name stating that they should be grateful of being alive). While generally gentle and rational compared to the other Gundam Meisters, the experiments and drama of killing his fellow subjects in order to survive during their escape went awry caused him to manifest a second personality in the form of , a bloodthirsty and outright sadistic personality. He is the pilot of Gundam Kyrios and Gundam Arios, as well as one of the pilots of Gundam Harute; all of which specialize in high mobility and are able to transform into fighter jets. Allelujah's rival in combat is another subject of the Super Soldier program, Soma Peries whom he shared deep connection which Hallelujah realized long before he did. Though Allelujah managed to reach common ground with his alter ego to reach his full potential as a super soldier (Allelujah manages the tactic side of the battle while Hallelujah manages the combat reflexes), Hallelujah "died" revealing Soma's identity as Marie Parfacy before he is captured and imprisoned during the four-year time-skip between both seasons but ends up being rescued by his companions after the other three Meisters reunite. In the process, after Soma reverts to Marie, Allelujah convinces her to join Celestial Being with the two becoming lovers. But during moments whenever 00 Raiser's Trans-Am System, the Hallelujah persona resurfaces, is shown later that after being exposed to Setsuna's Trans-Am Burst Hallelujah persona was fully restored and "resurrected". Despite Hallelujah acting like a full bloodthirsty psychopath he only acts when Allelujah is in danger of dying acting as a last resort self-defense mechanism (much like Suzaku Kururugi geass of "living"); also is revealed after both personalities comes to terms that, while Hallelujah shouldn't be able to care for Marie (as a psychopath can't feel empathy) that he do cares for Allelujah well-being, not only physical but also emotional, this is clearly shown on the climax of the second season last battle and more clearly in the Movie when as soon as Marie gets in danger by the ELS targeting her quantum brainwaves he overthrows Allelujah taking command of his body switiching the ELS focus to him thus sparing Marie of any danger. As with Soma Peries is shown that he could easily take over the body and become the main personality but chose not to contest preferring to remain in a dormant state. In the series aftermath, Allelujah and Marie have apparently left Celestial Being to find their place in the world. During the events of the movie, Allelujah and Marie rejoin Celestial Being to fight the ELS in the Gundam Harute, a dual piloted Mobile Suit. 
 Allelujah has Heterochromia iridum; throughout the first season, his left gray eye represents his Allelujah personality and his right golden eye represents Hallelujah until the latter's destruction, after which both his eyes become visible.