[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Downtown Winnipeg

, it carried Winnipeg's first horse-drawn streetcars between downtown and River Avenue in the early 1880s.

Osborne Street Bridge connects Osborne Village to the downtown core. The first iteration was built in the late 1880s. In the 2010s the bridge was upgraded with a lit wall using LED technology.

The Midtown Bridge carries traffic to and from south Winnipeg. It was first opened in September 1955. The Bridge sees upwards of 59,300 vehicles average weekdays.

The Provencher Bridge is the third one built. The first version, called the Broadway Bridge, was not engineered correctly and fell into the Red River four days after opening due to ice jams colliding with it. The second version outlived its usefulness and was replaced in the 2000s. The new Provencher Bridge opened to vehicular traffic in December 2003. Located adjacent to the Provencher Bridge is the cable-stayed pedestrian and cycling bridge, Esplanade Riel, opened in 2004. It features space for an indoor restaurant.

Other features

Sports venues 
There are two major sports venues located downtown, Canada Life Centre where the NHL's Winnipeg Jets and Manitoba Moose have played since 2004; and Shaw Park, where the American Association's Winnipeg Goldeyes baseball team have played since 1999.

Winnipeg Walkway System

The Winnipeg Walkway system, popularly known as the Winnipeg Skywalk, is a network of pedestrian skyways and tunnels connecting a significant portion of the city centre.

Media 

Several media organizations have broadcasting studio located in the downtown area, including television stations CTV, Global, Citytv, and Canadian specialty channel APTN; and radio stations QX-104, and 93.7 Nostalgia FM.

The television broadcast antennas for CBC Manitoba and ICI Radio-Canada Manitoba are located on the Richardson Building, while Global TV Winnipeg is located on top of 201 Portage Avenue.

Border Crossings, an internationally known arts magazine featuring Canadian art, publishes from offices in the Exchange District. Where Winnipeg magazine features listings of things to do in Winnipeg and is also published from the Exchange District.

Education 
Isbister School is an Adult Education Centre operated by the Winnipeg School Division in the north Portage Avenue area. Other private schools serve business needs, such as CDI and Booth University College.

See also
 List of tallest buildings in Winnipeg

Notes

External links

City of Winnipeg Site
Downtown Winnipeg Zoning By-law No. 100/2004
CentreVenture Site
Downtown Winnipeg Plan (1969)
Downtown Winnipeg BIZ Site

Neighbourhoods in Winnipeg
Winnipeg