[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 142]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

he closed his legs upon his little
horse, and pricked him in so sensible a manner, that the pony, who was
not deficient in spirit, resented the attack, and set off with him at a
prodigious rate.

William, when he saw his master thus burst forth, was at a loss whether
to consider it an accident or only an oratorical grace; but seeing the
horse hurrying along the roughest part of the common, while Tommy tugged
in vain to restrain his efforts, he thought it necessary to endeavour to
overtake him, and therefore pursued him with all the speed he could use.
But the pony, whose blood seemed to be only the more inflamed by the
violence of his own exertions, ran the faster when he heard the
trampling of another horse behind him.

In this manner did Tommy scamper over the common, while William pursued
in vain; for, just as the servant thought he had reached his master, his
horse would push forward with such rapidity as left his pursuer far
behind. Tommy kept his seat with infinite address; but he now began
seriously to repent of his own ungovernable ambition, and would, with
the greatest pleasure, have exchanged his own spirited steed for the
dullest ass in England.

The race had now endured a considerable time, and seemed to be no nearer
to a conclusion, when, on a sudden, the pony turned short, upon an
attempt of his master to stop him, and rushed precipitately into a large
bog or quagmire, which was full before him; here he made him a momentary
halt, and Tommy wisely embraced the opportunity of letting himself slide
off upon a soft and yielding bed of mire. The servant now came up to
Tommy and rescued him from his disagreeable situation, where, however,
he had received no other damage than that of daubing himself all over.

William had been at first very much frightened at the danger of his
master; but when he saw that he had so luckily escaped all hurt, he
could not help asking him, with a smile, whether this too was a stroke
of Arabian horsemanship? Tommy was a little provoked at this reflection
upon his horsemanship; but, as he had now lost something of his
irritability by repeated mortification, he wisely repressed his passion,
and desired William to catch his horse, while he returned homewards on
foot to warm himself. The servant, therefore, endeavoured to approach
the pony, who, as if contented with the triumph he had obtained over his
rider, was quietly feeding at a little distance; but the instant William
approached, he set off again at a violent rate, and seemed disposed to
lead him a second chase not inferior to the first.

In the meantime Tommy walked pensively along the common, reflecting on
the various accidents which had befallen him, and the repeated
disappointments he had found in all his attempts to distinguish himself.
While he was thus engaged, he overtook a poor and ragged figure, the
singularity of whose appearance engaged his attention. It was a man of
middle age, in a dress he had never seen before, with two poor children
that seemed with difficulty to keep up with him, while he carried a
third in his arms, whose pale emaciated looks sufficiently declared
disease and pain. The man had upon his head a coarse blue bonnet instead
of a hat; he was wrapped round by a tattered kind of garment, striped
with various colours, and at his side hung down a long and formidable
sword.

Tommy surveyed him with such an earnest observation, that at length the
man took notice of it, and, bowing to him with the greatest civility,
ventured to ask him if he had met with any accident, that he appeared in
a disorder which suited so little with his quality. Tommy was not a
little pleased with the discernment of the man, who could distinguish
his importance in spite of the dirtiness of his clothes, and therefore
mildly answered, "No, friend, there is not much the matter. I have a
little obstinate horse that ran away with me, and after trying in vain
to throw me down, he plunged into the middle of that great bog there,
and so I jumped off for fear of being swallowed up, otherwise I should
soon have made him submit, for I am used to such things, and don't mind
them in the least."

Here the child that the man was carrying began to cry bitterly, and the
father endeavoured to pacify him, but in vain. "Poor thing," said Tommy,
"he seems to be unwell; I am heartily sorry for him!" "Alas! master,"
answered the man, "he is not well, indeed; he has now a violent ague fit
upon him, and I have not had a morsel of bread to give him or any of the
rest since yesterday noon."

Tommy was naturally generous, and now his mind was unusually softened by
the remembrance of his own recent distresses; he therefore pulled a
shilling out of his pocket and gave it to the man, saying, "Here, my
honest friend, here is something to buy your child some food, and I
sincerely wish he may soon recover." "God bless your sweet face!" said
the man; "you are the best frien