[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International non-governmental organization

g used. Websites like Charity Navigator and GiveWell attempt to provide transparency as to how much goes to administrative costs, what activities money is spent on, whether more donations would be helpful, and how cost-effective the activities are compared to other charities or potential activities.

Moreover, multiple organizations often exist to solve the same problem. Rather than collaborating to address a given situation, organizations frequently interact as competitors, which creates bottlenecks of treatment and supplies. Conflicts typically require organizations to quickly provide aid to regions with conflict. As such, ensuring immediate and future care quality is paramount. To this point, INGOs must prepare regions for when they leave by providing the tools and guidance necessary to support their citizens. More research must be done on the impacts of INGO support from the perspective of the recipient country or region, as much of currently published research has been completed from the lens of a Westernized donor or INGO.

Another criticism is that many of the people benefiting from INGOs have no way to influence those activities and hold the organizations accountable. (for example by threatening to withhold donations). Some charitable organizations solicit the participation of local communities to avoid problems related to intercultural competence, and avoid unintended consequences due to lack of buy-in or lack of knowledge about local conditions.

In March 2015, the European Journal of International Relations criticized the impact of INGOs on government decision-making, claiming they are slowing integration of developing countries into the global economy.

Notable international NGOs

Multiple interdisciplinary projects
 ActionAid
 ACTED
 ADRA
 AIESEC
 CAFOD
 CARE
 CRS
 Cuso International
 Danish Refugee Council
 Islamic Relief
 International Olympic Committee
 Mercy Corps
 Oxfam
 Save the Children
 SOS Children's Villages
 Tzu Chi Foundation
 World Vision International
 Plan International

Economics
 International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations (FIATA)
 International Air Transport Association (IATA)

Health
 Amref Health Africa
 Doctors Without Borders
 GAVI
 The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria

Children and youth
 Compassion International
 International Federation of Catholic Parochial Youth Movements (FIMCAP)
 Plan
 Reggio Children Foundation
 Save the Children International
 SOS Children's Villages
 World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS)
 World Organization of the Scout Movement (WOSM)
 World Vision International
 AIESEC

Education
 European Association of History Educators
 Junior Achievement
 The Library Project
 OpenmindProjects- INGO

Human rights
 International Rescue Committee
 Human Rights Watch
 Amnesty International
 Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative
 Friends of Peoples Close to Nature
 Humanists International
 International Christian Concern
 International Commission against the Death Penalty
 International Federation for Human Rights
 Survival International

Environmental
 Greenpeace
 International POPs Elimination Network
 International Union for Conservation of Nature
 World Wide Fund for Nature

Water, sanitation, and hygiene
 WaterAid
 Water.org
 Initiative: Eau
 Water for People

Multilateralism
 Sister Cities International
 World Federation of United Nations Associations

Religion
 International Federation of Catholic Parochial Youth Movements (FIMCAP)
 Lutheran World Relief

Space and technology
 COSPAR
 RIPE NCC
 IMIRAD

See also
 European Convention on the Recognition of the Legal Personality of International Non-Governmental Organizations
 Foundation (non-profit)
 International Non-Governmental Organisations Accountability Charter
 Nonprofit organization
 Think tank
 World Polity Theory

References

Further reading
 Atack Iain 1998. "Four Criteria of Development NGO Legitimacy", in World Development 27(5), pp. 855–864.
 Collier, Paul 2007. "Aid to the Rescue?", in The Bottom Billion: Why the Poorest Countries are Failing and What Can Be Done About It, pp. 99–123. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
 
 Singer, Peter 2009. "How Can You Tell Which Charities Do It Best?", in The Life You Can Save, pp. 82–125. New York: Random House.