[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 6th Michigan Infantry Regiment

The 6th Michigan Infantry Regiment was an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. The unit fought at Baton Rouge and Port Hudson before being converted into the 6th Michigan Heavy Artillery in July 1863.

Service
The regiment recruited across southern Michigan between April and August 1861. Governor Austin Blair appointed Kalamazoo resident Frederick W. Curtenius as colonel. Curtenius, in turn, selected Thomas Scott Clark and Edward Savage Bacon as lieutenant colonel and major, respectively. On June 19 the regiment's officers (commissioned and noncommissioned) assembled at Fort Wayne, near Detroit, for training under regular army officers—most notably Alpheus Starkey Williams—as part of Michigan's Camp of Instruction. Upon completion of that initial training, the full regiment assembled at Kalamazoo in mid-August and was deployed out of state, bound for Baltimore, at the end of the month.

Despite pronounced secessionist sentiment in Baltimore, the regiment's stay there was mostly pleasant and uneventful. Major Bacon led the regiment on a bloodless foray down Virginia's Eastern Shore in December as part of Brigadier General Henry Hayes Lockwood’s Peninsular Brigade. This expedition exposed the first cracks in the 6th Michigan’s discipline as the soldiers foraged liberally and harbored escaped slaves against orders. The Michiganders went so far as to openly taunt General Lockwood after he confronted the entire regiment in an attempt to apprehend a soldier who had stolen a turkey from a local farmer.

In February 1862 the 6th Regiment deployed for Ship Island, off the coast of Mississippi, where they were brigaded with the 21st Indiana Infantry and the 4th Wisconsin Infantry under Brigadier General Thomas Williams. The Michiganders participated in the successful New Orleans campaign, again without bloodshed. The unit disembarked in the Crescent City at the beginning of May, quartered briefly in the New Orleans Mint amid a hostile population, and resumed their trek up the Mississippi River soon after.

Curtenius’s troops waded through a cypress swamp overnight and severed the New Orleans, Jackson, and Great Northern Railroad near Frenier Station in conjunction with the 4th Wisconsin. Proceeding upriver, they sickened shipboard amid logistical shortages and sweltering heat during an abortive move against Vicksburg, and withdrew to quarter at Baton Rouge. The regiment’s transports were fired upon en route at Grand Gulf, Mississippi, with the loss of one man killed and one wounded. They and the Wisconsin troops disembarked and sacked that town in retaliation.

The Michiganders’ discipline continued to erode. They had bristled under regular army discipline ever since Ship Island, taunting and defying General Williams at every opportunity—just as they had done with General Lockwood. This clash culminated with Colonel Curtenius's refusal to expel escaped slaves from camp, citing the Act Prohibiting the Return of Slaves. Williams retaliated by arresting Curtenius briefly and turning the regiment out of its comfortable quarters at the Pentagon Barracks for several days, exposing the already sick soldiers to debilitating rains, heat, and humidity. Nearly half the regiment was hospitalized, and men were dying daily.

Throughout it all, the unit was engaged in and around Baton Rouge in the profiteering and plundering rampant throughout Benjamin Butler’s Department of the Gulf. Plantations were emptied of cotton and slaves, and some plantation buildings were burned to the ground. Cotton was shipped and sold under mysterious circumstances, to the financial benefit of men ranging from company officers all the way to the highest echelons of the military department.

After Curtenius resigned due to illness, leaving Thomas S. Clark in command of the regiment, Williams again expelled the disobedient regiment from its quarters. The unit's four ranking officers refused to order the unit to move. They were arrested and sent to New Orleans, leaving the regiment bereft of field officers and under the command of its fourth ranking captain, Charles Edward Clarke, on the eve of the unit's first general engagement.