[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

mber 1933, he opined that "the German movement for the destruction of Jews is nothing if not the natural reaction of Germans against the current attitude of Jews in Germany." As he put it: "We Jews toyed with the leading virtues of the German people and made fun of what that nation holds as sacred."

In the Assembly elections of December 1933, the PER presented no candidates in Ilfov, and similarly excluded 31 (from a total of 71) provincial constituencies: Argeș, Bacău, Buzău, Cahul, Caliacra, Cetatea Albă, Ciuc, Constanța, Dâmbovița, Dolj, Durostor, Făgăraș, Gorj, Hunedoara, Ialomița, Mehedinți, Muscel, Olt, Putna, Râmnicu Sărat, Roman, Romanați, Tecuci, Teleorman, Tighina, Trei Scaune, Tulcea, Tutova, Vâlcea, Vaslui, and Vlașca. Marton ran at Odorhei, with Kertész and Iacob Rimoczi as the leading candidates in Cluj County; Benvenisti ran at Bălți, second on his list after Rahmil Ioffe, while József Fischer and Lazar Leitner headlined the list in Bihor. In both Brăila and Covurlui, the party presented Isidor Bauberger, seconded by Miksa Klein, while Meier Teich and Ebner were the only two names up for election in Câmpulung—Ebner also ran in Cernăuți, alongside Kaswan and Sami Singer, in Storojineț, alongside Alexandru Nobel, and in Suceava, with Benvenisti and Teich. The latter also had the eligible position in Hotin, before Landau and Gherș Braunștein. In tandem, Landau was the second candidate in Lăpușna, between Rabbi Tsirelson and Haim Cogan; he was the first option in both Orhei and Soroca (with Benvenisti and Sami Singer in second place, respectively). The latter was additionally the third PER candidate in Rădăuți County, after Tivadar Fischer and Nobel. Western Moldavian constituencies had Rohrlich and Weissman on the Botoșani and Dorohoi lists (on the latter, they seconded Braunștein), with Mizrachi and Segall put up as the leading candidates in Fălciu and Neamț, respectively. In Iași County, I. Bauberger, Philippe Rosenstein, and David Grinberg occupied the first three positions. In Alba County, Rudolf Kastner joined a list of candidates headlined by Mauritiu Deutsch, while also running with Tivadar Fischer and Abraham Fried in Maramureș.

The Fischers won explicit backing from the Union of Revisionists Zionists in Romania, which, despite noting some disagreements, decided not to submit its own list for the election. On December 9, the PER had informed the UER that it was not interested in an alliance; also then, it rejected a competing offer of forming a cartel with the Georgist Liberal Party. The PER also defied an agreement between other Jewish organizations, over not presenting its own candidates. Its dissidence was met with anger in other community circles, and a scuffle erupted between PER supporters and their assimilationist candidates in Galați. At the time, the UER called on Jewish voters to support those parties that defended "constitutional order through the cooperation in harmony of all citizens [...], without barriers of race or creed". A powerful setback followed: winning 1.29% of the vote, the PER lost all its seats in parliament. Its best result was at Cernăuți, where it came in fifth, with 3,516 votes, behind the PNȚ (which had 4,185). This fall was attributed by the party itself to the machinations of PNL Prime Minister Ion G. Duca. This claim was advanced by Adevărul newspaper, which noted as implausible that the PER of Maramureș had taken "only 533 votes out of 43,000 voters listed". Landau allegedly centralized reports showing that "terror is everywhere". One of these claimed that the party had been chased out of Cahul by PNL agents, who had also "severely beaten up" PER activist Tully Rosenthal.

There are also clues that the poor show may in fact have been a perverse effect of antisemitism: many Jews followed the UER stance and voted for non-Jewish democratic parties, in hopes of keeping the far-right out of parliament. The Jews were openly encouraged to do so by Adevărul and Dimineața, which, as R. Bauberger complained, disliked Zionism despite being "fed by Jewish money." The two newspapers hosted an appeal calling on the Jews to disregard the PER; the latter's representatives noted that the text was signed by "baptized, renegade Jews". Looking back on the period in October 1937, the PNL's Ion Inculeț boasted: "Even when the Jewish Party ran its own lists, the Jews would not vote for it, but favored the Liberal Party. On such grounds, I congratulate the Jewish populace." Another contributing factor was the growing number of minority voters who were disenfranchised by the successive governments: 120,000 to 135,000 Jewish men were reportedly stripped of their right to vote between 1920 and 1935. Only some thousands of Jews had moved to Palestine, although Landau had obtained a 75% reduction in passport fees for all Romanian Jewish emigrants. He himself left, with his entire family, in 1935.