[Source: PubMed]

3. Mycopathologia. 2024 Nov 21;189(6):102. doi: 10.1007/s11046-024-00908-4.

Invasive Fungal Diseases of Combat Wounds: Burden, Epidemiology, and Mycology.

Roberds A(1), Bobrov AG(2), Rautemaa-Richardson R(3)(4)(5), Walsh TJ(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Wound Infections Department, Bacterial Diseases Branch, Center for Infectious 
Diseases Research, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Silver Spring, MD, 
USA. ashleigh.n.roberds.mil@health.mil.
(2)Wound Infections Department, Bacterial Diseases Branch, Center for Infectious 
Diseases Research, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, Silver Spring, MD, 
USA.
(3)Division of Evolution, Infection and Genomics, Faculty of Biology, Medicine 
and Health, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, Mycology Reference Centre Manchester, ECMM 
Centre of Excellence, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Wythenshawe 
Hospital, Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.
(5)National Health Services, Mycology Reference Centre Manchester, Manchester, 
UK.
(6)Center for Innovative Therapeutics and Diagnostics, Richmond, VA, USA.
(7)Departments of Medicine and Microbiology & Immunology, University of Maryland 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

During the last two decades, wound invasive fungal diseases (WIFDs) have 
reemerged as important causes of mortality and morbidity in military personnel 
and civilian casualties in war areas. Historically, mycotic infections acquired 
in combat operations during Vietnam War and were associated with burn wounds. 
Modern combat related WIFDs are almost exclusively associated with severe 
traumatic events which encompass blast exposure as the primary mechanism of 
injury and subsequent extremity amputation and extensive blood loss. Such 
infections often lead to deep tissue necrosis, long hospitalizations, extensive 
surgeries, and more severe amputation. Studies of combat related WIFDs among 
U.S. military personnel in Operation Enduring Freedom (Afghanistan) demonstrated 
incidence rates of approximately 7% and crude mortality of 8.5%. WIFDs were also 
seen in U.K. military personnel returning from Afghanistan and are common in the 
current Ukraine and Gaza conflicts. Mucorales, Aspergillus and Fusarium species 
are the predominant causes of WIFDs. These molds are opportunistic pathogens 
which thrive in patients with immune system imbalances following traumatic 
injury. They are ubiquitous environmental fungi found in a variety of soils but 
there are significant regional differences depending on the local soil type, 
vegetation, and climate. The management of WIFDs is complicated by the limited 
efficacy of current antifungals on many of these environmental species and by 
emerging antifungal resistance globally. This review provides an overview of the 
global burden, epidemiology, and clinical features of combat-related fungal 
infections with the aim to provide a better understanding of the threat posed 
for wounded Service Members and civilians.

© 2024. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1007/s11046-024-00908-4
PMCID: PMC11582137
PMID: 39570484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose. Ethical 
Approval: This is a review article. No ethical approval is required.