[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Far Cry 2

the Jackal to help him escape. Interactions with the Jackal, together with interview tapes that can be found in-game, reveal his disillusionment with the conflict, as well as his desire to prolong it so that the UFLL and APR will be focused on each other, and thus less likely to go after civilians.

The Jackal eventually confronts the mercenary, proposing they work together to save the civilians, and the mercenary is tasked with killing the UFLL and APR leaders. After killing the leaders, the mercenary meets with the Jackal, who reveals the factions are still hunting the civilians to either kill them or trap them in the country. He intends to bribe the border guards to let the civilians through while using explosives to prevent the soldiers' pursuit. The mercenary is given the choice of detonating the explosives at the cost of his life, or bribing the guards and then committing suicide, with the Jackal taking the other job. Post-credit dialogue reveals the country descends into anarchy despite attempted peace talks, Reuben's story is ignored by the press and he begins publishing it on his blog, the Underground is praised for its action saving civilians, the mercenary dies, and the Jackal's body is never found.

Development

The original Far Cry was developed by Crytek using their in-house CryEngine and published by Ubisoft. Far Cry released in 2004, the same year Crytek signed a deal with Electronic Arts to produce a new CryEngine title, leaving them unable to work on future Far Cry projects. Ubisoft struck a deal with Crytek and eventually purchased the Far Cry intellectual property, allowing their Ubisoft Montreal studio to create further console Far Cry games using CryEngine technology. The aim with Far Cry 2 was to "rejuvenate" the Far Cry universe using a new setting and mechanics. The shift in direction was partly to separate it from Crytek's new project, which was assumed be set in a similar tropical environment, but also to separate it from the original game's console spin-off titles, which all had similar environments. The change in setting and direction would also help invigorate the brand, which was suffering in the market due to exploitation of the original game's premise and tone. There was also the factor that several games and other media titles were using a jungle island setting. The team went through a long pre-production period, with plans for a sequel emerging prior to the original game's release and concept work beginning during the development of Far Cry Instincts (2005). Production lasted three and a half years.

The game was directed by Clint Hocking, and co-produced by Bertrand Hélias and Louis-Pierre Pharand. Hocking joined the project after finishing his work on Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, choosing Far Cry 2 to take a break from the Splinter Cell series. The lead designer was Pierre Rivest, who described the experience as challenging due to having no other games as comparisons for the mechanics and scale of Far Cry 2. Gathering staff for the project was difficult, as production of Far Cry 2 ran parallel to or behind two other large-scale Ubisoft Montreal projects, Assassin's Creed and Splinter Cell: Conviction. According to narrative designer Patrick Redding, he and Hocking agreed to "go all out" on their vision regardless of its success. The final production team included over 150 staff members, the assembly of which was described by Pharand as a huge challenge.

Upon its original unveiling, Far Cry 2 was announced as a Windows-exclusive development. After returning from a media event in Leipzig, another team came to them and said they could get the engine working on PS3 and 360. Impressed by their tests, the game was scheduled for those consoles in turn. Another impetus to establish the engine on consoles was so other Ubisoft titles could make use of it in the future, and to push what was possible on consoles at the time. While there were technological limitations on the console versions due to preset hardware specifications, the Windows version was described as having no limitations. Technical director Dominic Guay stated that the only real difference between the Windows and console versions was its graphics, with the two otherwise being identical. They also took care not to make their game too demanding on Windows machines, contrasting against the notoriously high demands of Crytek's Crysis. The PS3 version caused worries for the team due to its notorious reputation as a difficult console for third-party developers, but a dedicated team of programmers worked to smooth over gameplay on the console.