[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Non-intervention in the Spanish Civil War

tions that 60,000 Italians were now in Spain and Grandi's announcement that he hoped that no Italian volunteer would leave until the war was over, the German delegation appears to have hoped the control plan was effective. There were Italian assurances that Italy would not break up non-intervention.

In May 1937, the Committee noted two attacks on the patrol's ships in the Balearic islands by Spanish Republican Air Force aircraft, the first on the Italian cruiser  and the second on the  German cruiser Deutschland. The latter resulting in  German retaliation against the city of Almeria. It iterated calls for the withdrawal of volunteers from Spain, condemned the bombing of open towns and showed approval of humanitarian work. Germany and Italy said that they would withdraw from the committee, and the patrols unless it could be guaranteed that there would be no further attacks. Early June saw the return of Germany and Italy to the committee and patrols. Italian reticence of operations in Spain, however, was dropped. By contrast, it continued to be a crime in Germany to mention German operations. Following attacks, attributed to Republicans by Germany but denied, on the German cruiser  on 15 and 18 June, Germany and Italy once again withdrew from patrols but not the committee. That prompted the Portuguese government to remove British observers on the Spanish-Portuguese border.

Discussions on patrols remained complicated. Britain and France offered to replace Germany and Italy in patrols of their sections, but the last two believed that the patrols would be too partial. Germany and Italy requested land controls to be kept and belligerent rights to be given to the Nationalists, so that rights of search could be used by both the Republicans and Nationalists to replace naval patrols. The French considered abandoning border controls or perhaps leaving non-intervention. However, the French were reliant on the British, who wished to continue with patrols. Britain and France thus continued to labour over non-intervention; although they judged it effective, some 42 ships were estimated to have escaped inspection between April and the end of July. The air route had not been covered. The Nationalists' debt to Germany reached 150 million Reichsmark. On 9 July, the Dutch ambassador suggested for Britain to draft a compromise. Lord Plymouth called the 'compromise plan for the control of non-intervention'. Naval patrols would be replaced by observers in ports and ships, and land control measures would be resumed. Belligerent rights would not be granted until substantial progress was made on volunteer withdrawal. The French were furious and considered that Britain was moving towards Germany and Italy. Grandi demanded the discussion of belligerent rights before volunteer rights; Maisky insisted for volunteers to be discussed first.

Conference of Nyon and onwards
In 1937, all powers were prepared to give up on non-intervention. Ciano complained to his government that Italian forces in Italy were ready but not being used; the Soviet Union was not prepared to discuss belligerent rights; Delbos was considering proposing mediation by Roosevelt and the Pope and simultaneously preparing French war plans; and Britain's new prime minister, Neville Chamberlain, saw securing a friendship with the Italian Benito Mussolini as a top priority. Eden confided he wished Franco to win and so Italian and Germany involvement would be scaled back; Chamberlain considered Spain a troublesome complication to be forgotten. By the end of July 1937, the committee was in deadlock, and the aims of a successful outcome to the Spanish Civil War was looking unlikely for the Republic. Unrestricted Italian submarine warfare began on 12 August. The British Admiralty believed that a significant control effort was the best solution of four that were put forward in response to attacks on British shipping. On 27 August, the Committee decided that naval patrols did not justify their expense and would be replaced, as planned, with observers at ports.