[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

sions commanded by Devin, Crook, and Custer.  The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry, as part of Capehart's Brigade and Custer's 3rd Division, began their fight south of Marshall's Crossroads. Once again, Union infantry attacked from the east, while Sheridan's cavalry attacked mostly from the south and west.

As Colonel Capehart (commander of Custer's Third Brigade) reviewed the Confederate army's position, General Custer rode along the lines in plain view of the Confederate infantry, brashly displaying captured Confederate battle flags. The Confederates responded by taking numerous shots at the general, and Custer's horse was hit. Custer dismounted without injury.  Capehart realized that the Confederates would need time to reload their single-shot rifles, and requested that his 3rd Brigade attack immediately.  Custer quickly agreed, and Capehart's brigade of about 1,400 cavalry men (including the 2nd West Virginia) charged the Confederate lines. In addition to the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry, Capehart's 3rd Brigade still included the 1st and 3rd West Virginia Cavalries—plus the 1st New York (Lincoln) Cavalry.

Capehart and Lieutenant Colonel Allen of the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry led the charge. Thomas Custer, brother of General George Custer, rode with the two leaders at the front of the column. The men used sabers, carbines, and revolvers to move through three Confederate infantry lines. A large portion of Ewell's corps became surrounded, causing many of the demoralized Confederate soldiers to surrender. Thus, the Union troops captured more than 20 percent of Lee's army. Approximately 8,000 Confederate soldiers, including eight generals, were killed or captured.  Among the surrendering generals were Richard Ewell and Custis Lee.  Upon seeing the battered survivors from his army, Lee said "My God, has the army dissolved?" Although many of Anderson's men escaped westward, the battle is considered the "death knell" for Lee's Confederate Army. 
 
The Battle of Sailor's Creek is the last major battle of the American Civil War. Two privates (Joseph Kimball and Samuel McElhinney) from the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry captured Confederate battle flags in this battle, and were later awarded the Medal of Honor. Thomas Custer, who was not part of the Capehart's brigade (but rode with it), also received a Medal of Honor.  Custer was shot in the face as he captured a battle flag. Custer killed the shooter in the instant after he was shot. The non-lethal shot exited Custer's cheek, and he was able to return to the safety of the Union lines.

Battle of Appomattox Station
On April 8, Lee's Army of Northern Virginia continued to flee westward. Two Union army corps were following. Additional Union troops, including cavalry led by General Sheridan, were further west.  Sheridan hoped to block Lee's retreat.  His advance force was Custer's 3rd Division.  The advance portion of Lee's army consisted of artillerymen led by General R. Lindsey Walker, and they passed through the small community of Appomattox Court House toward their destination—Appomattox Station.  Walker's artillery force led a wagon train with luggage and ambulances.  Three trains, sent from Lynchburg, were waiting at Appomattox Station with supplies. They were guarded by a small cavalry brigade.

Custer learned that the Confederate supply trains were waiting at Appomattox Station.  He sent the 2nd New York Cavalry forward, and the supply trains were captured. A few pieces of track were removed to prevent the trains from going back to Lynchburg.  Walker was surprised to see Union troops waiting at the station, and set up his artillery. He was forced to form a battle line in a wooded area—not an ideal situation for his weaponry. He was able to repel Custer's 1st Brigade.

Custer used his 2nd and 3rd (Capehart's) brigades for two more ineffective attacks. Finally, Custer made a rare night attack using his entire division. Strong moonlight reduced the risk of getting lost or misidentifying friendly and enemy soldiers. The night attack was successful, and Custer's division captured 24 to 30 artillery pieces. About 1,000 Confederates were taken prisoner, and 150 to 200 wagons were captured.

Battle of Appomattox Courthouse

On April 9, Lee's Army of Northern Virginia continued to flee westward. Infantry led by Generals John Brown Gordon and James Longstreet, and cavalry led by Fitzhugh Lee formed a battle line near the Appomattox Court House. This was their last chance to escape to Lynchburg, as Union troops were attempting to surround them.