[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Crazy Bear (Assiniboine chief)

devastating results.  The disease killed approximately 2,000 people of which an estimated 1,200 were Assiniboines.   "Crazy Bear is buried south of the river where Big Muddy empties into the Missouri River, up the river from there on the south side where there are bad land and a bunch of ash trees."

His life and character can be summed up by a quotation from Denig which states, "The ruling Chief of the whole nation is named Mau to weet ko (Mah Toe Wit Ko) or the Foolish Bear (Crazy Bear), who has always considered a good and sensible man and lately confirmed in his office by the Commissioners at the Laramie Treaty.  He is somewhat more elevated in his opinions than most of his people, but does not rank so high as a warrior as some, though he has on occasions shown an utter contempt of danger before his enemies.  He is a mild, politic man, looking to the interests of his people and viewing with suspicion anything inconsistent with them.  Even when a very young man he had a voice in council, respect was paid to his opinions, and he now conducts the affairs of the nation with great credit to himself and satisfaction of his followers.  ....He is a sterling friend to all white men and his speeches exhibit considerable mental powers.  At all events his whole mind is given to produce a good understanding between his people and the United States government.  It is pleasant to perceive good and amiable qualities in a leader...."

References

 Armstrong, Virginia Irving. (1971). I Have Spoken. Sage Books, The Swallow Press Inc. pp. 56–57.
 The Land of the Assiniboine, DVD.
 Five Indian Tribes of the Upper Missouri by John C. Ewers
 Forty Years A Fur Trader on the Upper Missouri, The Personal Narrative of Charles Larpenteur, 1833–1872, * Lakeside Press 1933.
 Montana Indian History by Speaks Lightning.
 Letter IX, to the Editor of The Prcis Historiques, Brussels. The Crazy Bear, An Assiniboine Chief. Cincinnati, College of Saint Xavier, July 28, 1854.
 Mrs. Medicine Bear (Iron Cradle aka Sweet Grass) 1929 deposition, Harlem, Montana 9/18/1929, U.S.Court of Claims case no. J-31.
 The Kurz Sketchbook 1846-1852 Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 115, 1947.

1785 births
1856 deaths
19th-century Native Americans
Assiniboine people
Native American leaders
Fort Belknap Indian Reservation