[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ravensworth

established onsite in 1996. The basket weighed five tons, was 23 feet across and 9 feet high and contained 1,000 plants of 100 different varieties. By 2006, the business had a £1.8 million annual turnover, six acres of glasshouses and employed around 35 people.. Ravensworth Nurseries closed in 2023.

Amenities
Ravensworth contains a Church of England primary school which had 68 pupils in 2010, a village hall, a Methodist chapel (which closed in 2019) and a public house, described as "cosy". The village has a public house called The Bay Horse Inn. A Church of England church situated at Kirby Hill, a large garden centre, a local farm shop, a 5-acre caravan park and a further three public houses are all within an approximately one mile radius, although only The Bay Horse Inn is situated in the village proper. The "broad [and] pleasant" village green is substantial, at 17 acres, and most of the one hundred or so dwellings in the village are situated around it. The green hosts the stone base of a 15th-century cross or obelisk. There was previously village quoits club that operated during the summer, however this is currently in abeyance. The area falls within the television reception area of ITV Tyne Tees. Newspaper coverage is provided by the Darlington-based Northern Echo, which has a North Yorkshire edition, and The Teesdale Mercury based in Barnard Castle. Water is supplied by Yorkshire Water. The water is the area is classified as hard, owing to the large amount of limestone in the area, and derives from a spring/borehole source. The village is within the boundaries of the annual fox hunting event, the Zetland Hunt.

Transport
Ravensworth is situated near to the A66 and is 5 miles from the Scotch Corner junction on the A1(M) motorway. Its nearest railway station is Darlington railway station,  away. Bus services which operate throughout the day connect the village to the nearby towns of Richmond and Barnard Castle. The village is situated close to the Yorkshire Dales national park, and is also only one hour from the North York Moors and the Lake District national parks. Newcastle and York are one hour's drive away, and Leeds is just over one hour away. A bus service runs between Barnard Castle and Richmond (and vice versa) and runs several times a day on weekdays; it is operated by Hodgson's Buses of Barnard Castle.

References

External links

 Ravensworth village website 
 Ravensworth families recorded in the 1861 and 1891 censuses
 The Northern Echo's profile of the village

 
Villages in North Yorkshire
Civil parishes in North Yorkshire
Richmondshire