[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# István Mészáros (philosopher)

as an individual have to rebel against this power, this monstrous power of capital. Marxists on the whole failed to voice that side". This was reflected on Mészáros's The Work of Sartre: Search for Freedom, first published in 1979 and expanded in 2012 with a new section, "The Challenge of History".

Mészáros believed it was important to do a distinction between capitalism and capital to theorise about a transition to socialism. He posited that capital appeared "thousand of years" prior to capitalism and that it can continue without capitalism, which is the case of Soviet Union (USSR) in his understanding. In this sense, a revolutionary upheaval can overthrow capitalism in a limited area by the expropriation of the capitalist class, but the power of capital can still control the system through the division of labour and the "hierarchical command structure of capital". Mészáros defined capital as "command system whose mode of functioning is accumulation-oriented". In his conception, the extraction of surplus value can be done in a "political way"—like in the case of USSR—or through "an economically regulated extraction of surplus labour and surplus value"—like in the West. Mészáros argued that the accumulation process "was done in a very improper fashion from the point of view of productivity" and in a 1982 essay said that it would eventually collapse because of this fact—and not because of US-backed anticommunist military policies.

Personal life
Mészáros met his Italian wife, Donatella Morisi, in 1955 in Paris; they were married on 14 February 1956; she died in 2007. They had three children: Laura, born 1956; Susie, born 1960; and Giorgio, born 1962.

Works

References

Footnotes

Bibliography

External links 
István Mészáros Archive at Marxists.org
"Mészáros István" – Lukács György Alapítvány

1930 births
2017 deaths
Academics of the University of Sussex
Academic staff of Eötvös Loránd University
Hungarian philosophers
Marxist theorists
Academic staff of York University
Attila József Prize recipients
Academic staff of the University of Turin
Deutscher Memorial Prize winners
Writers from Budapest