[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Logical matrix

itionally it is a multiplicative lattice due to matrix multiplication.

Every logical matrix in U corresponds to a binary relation. These listed operations on U, and ordering, correspond to a calculus of relations, where the matrix multiplication represents composition of relations.

Logical vectors

If m or n equals one, then the m × n logical matrix (mij) is a logical vector or bit string. If m = 1, the vector is a row vector, and if n = 1, it is a column vector. In either case the index equaling 1 is dropped from denotation of the vector.

Suppose  and  are two logical vectors. The outer product of P and Q results in an m × n rectangular relation

A reordering of the rows and columns of such a matrix can assemble all the ones into a rectangular part of the matrix.

Let h be the vector of all ones. Then if v is an arbitrary logical vector, the relation R = v hT has constant rows determined by v. In the calculus of relations such an R is called a vector. A particular instance is the universal relation .

For a given relation R, a maximal rectangular relation contained in R is called a concept in R. Relations may be studied by decomposing into concepts, and then noting the induced concept lattice.

Consider the table of group-like structures, where "unneeded" can be denoted 0, and "required" denoted by 1, forming a logical matrix  To calculate elements of , it is necessary to use the logical inner product of pairs of logical vectors in rows of this matrix. If this inner product is 0, then the rows are orthogonal. In fact, small category is orthogonal to quasigroup, and groupoid is orthogonal to magma. Consequently there are zeros in , and it fails to be a universal relation.

Row and column sums
Adding up all the ones in a logical matrix may be accomplished in two ways: first summing the rows or first summing the columns. When the row sums are added, the sum is the same as when the column sums are added. In incidence geometry, the matrix is interpreted as an incidence matrix with the rows corresponding to "points" and the columns as "blocks" (generalizing lines made of points). A row sum is called its point degree, and a column sum is the block degree. The sum of point degrees equals the sum of block degrees.

An early problem in the area was "to find necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of an incidence structure with given point degrees and block degrees; or in matrix language, for the existence of a (0, 1)-matrix of type v × b with given row and column sums". This problem is solved by the Gale–Ryser theorem.

See also
 List of matrices
 Binatorix (a binary De Bruijn torus)
 Bit array
 Redheffer matrix
 Truth table
 Three-valued logic

Notes

References
  Richard A. Brualdi (2006), Combinatorial Matrix Classes. Encyclopedia of Mathematics and its Applications, 108. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2006. 
  Richard A. Brualdi & Herbert J. Ryser (1991), Combinatorial Matrix Theory. Encyclopedia of Mathematics and its Applications, 39. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1991. 
 , § 31.3, Binary Matrices
 
 H. J. Ryser (1957), "Combinatorial properties of matrices of zeroes and ones", Canadian Journal of Mathematics 9: 371–7.
 H.J. Ryser (1960), "Traces of matrices of zeroes and ones", Canadian Journal of Mathematics 12: 463–76.
 H.J. Ryser (1960), "Matrices of Zeros and Ones", Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society 66: 442–64.
 D. R. Fulkerson (1960) "Zero-one matrices with zero trace", Pacific Journal of Mathematics 10; 831–6
 D. R. Fulkerson & H. J. Ryser (1961), "Widths and heights of (0, 1)-matrices", Canadian Journal of Mathematics 13: 239–55.
 L. R. Ford Jr. & D. R. Fulkerson (1962) § 2.12 "Matrices composed of 0's and 1's", pages 79 to 91 in Flows in Networks, Princeton University Press

External links

 

Boolean algebra
Matrices