[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Commentary on Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid

e policies within the nation of Israel and within the occupied territories that Israel controls[,] and the oppression of the Palestinians by Israeli forces in the occupied territories is horrendous. And it's not something that has been acknowledged or even discussed in this country. (Italics added.)

With regard to the criticisms of Kenneth W. Stein, Carter has also pointed out "that Stein hadn't played a role in the Carter Center in 13 years and that his post as a fellow was an honorary title. 'When I decided to write this book, I didn't even think about involving Ken, from ancient times, to come in and help. Carter's biographer Douglas Brinkley has observed that Stein and Carter have a "passionate, up-and-down relationship" and that Stein has criticized some of Carter's previous statements about Israel. In response to Professor Stein's current criticism of the book, representatives of its publisher, Simon & Schuster, state: "We haven't seen these allegations, we haven't seen any specifics, and I have no way of assessing anything he [Stein] has said. ... This is all about nothing. We stand behind the book fully, and the fact that there has been a divided reaction to it is not surprising."

As cited in various news accounts, "Carter has consistently defended his book's accuracy against Stein and other critics"; in a prepared statement, Carter's press secretary Deanna Congileo responds "that Carter had his book reviewed for accuracy throughout the writing process" and that "[a]s with all of President Carter's previous books, any detected errors will be corrected in later editions."

In response to the Associated Press's request for a comment on the aforementioned resignations of Stein and fourteen other members of the center's Board of Councilors, speaking on behalf of both Carter and the Carter Center, Ms. Congileo also provided a statement from its executive director John Hardman, who, according to Zelkowitz, "also fact checked Palestine, saying that the members of that board 'are not engaged in implementing the work of the Center.

After receiving 25,000 petitions against his book presented to him by the Simon Wiesenthal Center, former President Carter sent a hand-written one-sentence note dated January 26, 2007, to the center's dean and founder, Rabbi Marvin Hier, which the organization posted on its website, in which Carter states: "I don't believe that Simon Wiesenthal would have resorted to falsehood and slander to raise funds." 
The Associated Press reports that, "facing continuing controversy over his new book on the Israeli–Palestinian conflict", former President Jimmy Carter "issued a letter ... to American Jews explaining his use of the term 'apartheid' and sympathizing with Israelis who fear terrorism." Jimmy Carter's "A Letter to Jewish Citizens of America" is posted on the website of the Carter Center.  Further commentaries based on this letter are quoted by John Kelly in his article "The Middle East: Are Critics of Israel Stifled?" in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution of December 17, 2006.

In an op-ed published on December 20, 2006, in The Boston Globe,  Carter rejects critics of his book as not actually having addressed the major points contained in it:
Not surprisingly, an examination of the book reviews and published comments reveals that these points have rarely if ever been mentioned by detractors of the book, much less denied or refuted. Instead, there has been a pattern of ad hominem statements, alleging that I am a liar, plagiarist, anti-Semite, racist, bigot, ignorant, etc. There are frequent denunciations of fabricated "straw man" accusations: that I have claimed that apartheid exists within Israel; that the system of apartheid in Palestine is based on racism; and that Jews control and manipulate the news media of America. Carter concludes:As recommended by the Hamilton-Baker report, renewed negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians are a prime factor in promoting peace in the region.  Although my book concentrates on the Palestinian territories, I noted that the report also recommended peace talks with Syria concerning the Golan Heights.  Both recommendations have been rejected by Israel's prime minister.
It is practically impossible for bitter antagonists to arrange a time, place, agenda, and procedures that are mutually acceptable, so an outside instigator/promoter is necessary. Successful peace talks were orchestrated by the United States in 1978–79 and by Norway in 1993. If the American government is reluctant to assume such a unilateral responsibility, then an alternative is the International Quartet (United States, Russia, the United Nations, and the European Union)—still with American leadership. An overwhelming majority of citizens of Israel, Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt, and Palestine want peace, with justice for all who live in the Holy Land.  It will be a shame if the world community fails to help them reach this goal.