[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Andrew Karney

Andrew Karney, FIET, CEng, FRSA (born 24 May 1942) is a British electrical engineer, businessman and company director. He is also an accredited European Engineer.

Career
Karney studied engineering at Trinity College, Cambridge. He started his career working as a teacher for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) in Lebanon and Gaza in 1964 and 1965, when it was occupied by Egypt. He was honoured by the United Nations Secretary-General, U Thant in 1969.

Karney worked as a development engineer at Standard Telephones and Cables on a small team headed by British engineer Tommy Flowers, who designed Colossus, the world's first programmable electronic computer, used to break German wartime codes, particularly the Lorenz cipher. He played an important role in the development of the world's first fully electronic digital telephone exchange, which was developed as an Anglo French collaboration, based in Paris, which was installed in Moorgate in the City of London in 1967. He also worked as a senior scientist at the central research laboratories of the UK General Electric Company on the development codecs for high speed (140 Mbit/s) digital transmission systems which were used to test the capabilities of helix wave guides (and later of optical fibres), digital radio receivers for GCHQ and electronic telephone exchanges. During this time he filed a number of international patents which were used by developers of the first digital telephone switching equipment in the UK, the US, Canada, France, Sweden and Japan.

In 1973, he joined Logica, an international systems company and was a senior member of team of engineers from Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe, SHAPE Technical Center in the Hague, military personnel from NATO countries and industry defining the communications and IT requirements for the underground Static War HQ to be built near Mons in Belgium. He was project director of the European project based in Paris to bring the Internet to Europe from 1975 to 1976. INRIA in France, Euratom in Italy, the National Physical Laboratory (United Kingdom), ETH Zurich (Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich) and the Organisation Européenne pour la Recherche Nucléaire, commonly known as CERN, actively participated in the project and it was there that the World Wide Web was conceived by Tim Berners-Lee in 1989. In 1984, Karney became a main board director responsible for the telecommunications, electronics, space, government and media sectors as well as operations in Italy and Asia, which included he development of the trading system for the new unified Hong Kong Stock Exchange. During that time he was responsible for the development of the Customer Service System for British Telecommunications (BT/CSS), the £1bn total implementation, represented largest computer project undertaken in Europe and the largest integrated database in the world  and the development of early Text Messaging (SMS) for mobile phones.

In 1984, together with others, he founded Cable London plc – one of the first cable TV operations in the UK, which subsequently became part of Telewest now part of Virgin Media. From 1980 to 1990 he was a member of the UK National Electronics Council, an independent nongovernmental organisation, originally set up in July, 1964, under the chairmanship of Earl Mountbatten of Burma seeking to coordinate pure and applied research in electronics, and later chaired by Prince Edward, Duke of Kent.