[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Raymond Westerling

hus, with the exception of Hirschfeld, the Dutch High Commissioner, all of the highest Dutch ranks in Jakarta, both military and civilian, were aware of and involved in the conspiracy to hide Westerling and his escape from Indonesia. Andreae Fockema stated that he would take over all responsibility.

On 17 February Lieutenant Colonel Borghouts and Major van der Veen were tasked with drawing up an evacuation plan. A plan was drawn up to take Westerling out of Indonesia on a Catalina aircraft belonging to the "Marineluchtvaartdienst - MLD" (Naval Aviation Service) under the authority of Vice Admiral J.W. Kist. This plan was approved by Van Langen and the same day Westerling was informed of this plan. Van der Veen discussed further details with Van Langen regarding the need for money, rubber boats and fake passports. On 18 February van Langen conveyed this to General van Vreeden. Van der Veen contacted Captain (Sea) P. Vroon, Chief of the MLD and relayed the plan. Vroon informed Admiral Kist that there was a request from the KNIL to use Catalina for a special task. Kist gave his approval, although at the time he was not informed of the actual use. General van Langen, in his letter to Admiral Kist, only explained that one Catalina aircraft was needed for the visit of a high-ranking officer to the Riau Islands, and not a word about Westerling. Subsequently, a false passport was made at the High Commissioner's office (without an official report). The name on the passport was Willem Ruitenbeek, born in Manila.

On Wednesday 22 February, one month after the failed "coup", Westerling, wearing the uniform of a KNIL sergeant, was picked up by van der Veen and taken by car to the MLD base at Tanjung Priok Port. The Catalina aircraft only made a stopover in Tanjung Pinang and then continued its flight to Singapore. They arrived in Singapore waters late in the evening. Approximately one kilometre from the coast of Singapore the plane landed in the sea and the rubber boat was lowered.

In his book De Eenling, Westerling explained that his rubber boat was leaking and taking on water. Luckily he was rescued by a Chinese fishing boat that took him to Singapore. On arrival in Singapore, he immediately contacted his Chinese friend Chia Piet Kay, who had helped when buying weapons for the Pao An Tui. He immediately made plans to return to Indonesia.

Arrival and detention at Singapore 
After arriving to port, Westerling had been staying at Chia Piet Kay house in the centre of Singapore. After a visit by special branch officer Mr. A.R. McEwan, it was found that Westerling had entered the colony without the correct papers, mainly the false passport. Alerted by this, McEwan followed by arresting Westerling without any resistance. He was then incarcerated in Changi Prison having to enter the territory illegally. Westerling explained to the Singaporean authorities, that he had come to Malaya in an attempt to garner financial support and arms for his organization in Indonesia. Previously, on February 20 when Westerling was still in Jakarta, Hugh Laming, a journalist from Reuters, sent a telegram to London and reported that Westerling was on his way to Singapore, to then continue on to Europe.

After hearing that Westerling had been arrested by the British Police in Singapore, the RIS Government submitted a request to the authorities in Singapore via the British Embassy in Jakarta concerning the extradition of Westerling "on the grounds of crimes perpetrated by him in Indonesia". With this communiqué, the authorities had intended to momentarily hold Westerling in a detention camp on St. John's Island, off the coast of Singapore. Previously, a Dutch cabinet meeting on August 7 had decided that upon his arrival in the Netherlands, Westerling would be immediately detained, though it was uncertain for the situation of Westerling in Singapore. Thus, on 15 August 1950, at the High Court hearing in Singapore, Judge Evans ruled that Westerling as a Dutch citizen could not be extradited to Indonesia and that the newly formed Republic of Indonesia had no extradition treaty with the British. 

The coverage in the mass media deeply hit and humiliated the Dutch civil and military leadership in Indonesia. The RIS Cabinet flooded the Dutch High Commissioner Hirschfeld with questions. Hirschfeld himself did not believe in the mass media at first, while Jend. Buurman van Vreeden and Gen. van Langen denied that they knew about the Dutch military leadership's assistance to Westerling in escaping to Singapore.