[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 25]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

ion picture, or television productions involving smoking as part of the production. Penalties are $100 for a first violation, $200 for a second violation within 12 months and $500 for the third and subsequent violations. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the Act.

New York

Statewide smoking ban: Effective July 24, 2003, smoking is banned statewide in all enclosed workplaces in New York, including all bars and restaurants and construction sites. The law exempts (1) private homes and automobiles, (2) hotel/motel rooms, (3) retail tobacco businesses, (4) private clubs, (5) cigar bars (A cigar bar that makes 10 percent of its gross income from the on-site sale of tobacco products and the rental of on-site humidors, not including vending machines sales are exempt from the ban), (6) outdoor areas of bars and restaurants, and (7) enclosed rooms in restaurants, bars, convention halls, etc., when hosting private functions organized for the promotion and sampling of tobacco products. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the state law. Breaking the state law can result in a fine of between $200 and $2,000, depending how many violations one has had within a year.
Albany, On January 1, 2015, the following ordinance took effect. "No person shall smoke within the City's parks, sport fields, swimming pools, or playgrounds. For purposes of this section, to 'smoke' means to burn a lighted cigar, cigarette, or pipe or to use any other substance which contains tobacco."
Great Neck, Adopted January 4, 2011, smoking was banned on sidewalks in front of commercial buildings, Village Green park, and the Housing Authority.
New York City, Effective May 23, 2011, smoking was banned in all parks, boardwalks, beaches, recreation centers, swimming pools and pedestrian plazas. On March 30, 2003, smoking was banned in all enclosed workplaces, including bars and restaurants; exempts tobacco bars, owner-operated bars, separately ventilated smoking rooms in bars, private clubs with no employees, private functions organized for the promotion and sampling of tobacco products, and retail tobacco shops. Shortly after, on July 24, 2003, the statewide smoking ban came into effect. New York City may suspend or revoke a business's license if it has been found guilty of violating this law three times within 12 months.

North Carolina
Statewide smoking ban in bars and restaurants: On January 2, 2010, after being signed into law by Governor Bev Perdue on May 19, 2009, North Carolina Session Law 2009-27 went into effect, banning smoking statewide in all bars and restaurants in North Carolina, as well as in government buildings and vehicles. The law exempts cigar bars, private clubs that are not-for-profit (including country clubs), designated hotel/motel smoking areas, offices, retail stores not subjected to state sanitation codes, and medical research facilities studying tobacco. The law generally allows local governments to regulate smoking more strictly beginning July 5, 2009 (as long as it is approved by the county, too), but preempts local governments from regulating smoking in cigar bars, retail tobacco shops, tobacco manufacturer facilities, designated hotel/motel smoking rooms, private clubs (including country clubs), theatrical productions involving smoking, private residences, or private vehicles.
Other local smoking regulations in North Carolina:
North Carolina Department of Correction, January 2006, banned in all state prisons.
Orange County, January 1, 2012, banned on all sidewalks owned, operated, or maintained by the municipalities incorporated within the county.
UNC Hospitals, August 2007, banned on all hospital grounds.
Waynesville, May 23, 2015, banned on sidewalks, public parks, parking lots, greenways, city vehicles and the area in and surrounding town buildings

North Dakota
Statewide smoking ban: On November 6, 2012, by a vote of 66%–34%, North Dakota voters ratified Initiative Measure Four, which, upon taking effect in December 2012, amends North Dakota's existing partial smoking ban so as to ban smoking statewide in all enclosed public places and places of employment, including all bars, restaurants, and tobacco stores. The ban exempts only (1) private residences except when operating as a childcare or adult day care facility, (2) outdoor areas except within 20 feet of the entrance to a public place or place of employment, (3) businesses not open to the public with no employees besides the owner, and (4) American Indian religious and cultural rituals. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the state. As noted above, North Dakota is one of only six states that ban smoking in tobacco stores and is one of only four that prohibit hotels and motels from designating a certain percentage of rooms for smoking.