[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Robert J. Mrazek

ked Mrazek down in a House corridor and threatened him with a knife. Mrazek's landmark conservation law revoked the artificially high timber cutting targets, protecting over  of Tongass's old-growth forest and watershed acreage, and mandated broad buffers for all salmon and resident fishing streams.

Awards
For his conservation and preservation work, the Directors Guild of America awarded Mrazek its first Legislative Achievement Award in 1987. In 1988, Mrazek, along with Andrews, was named a Conservationist of the Year by the NPCA, the National Parks Conservation Association, for their efforts to protect Manassas National Battlefield from adjacent land development. The Governor of New York gave Mrazek the Commissioner's Preservationist Award in 1990.

In 2017, Mrazek was named one of the Four Legends of Civil War Battlefield Preservation by the American Battlefield Trust.

Author
Since retiring from Congress, Mrazek has published twelve books, including eight novels, and four works of non-fiction; he also wrote the screenplay for the 2016 feature film, The Congressman.

Stonewall's Gold was published by St. Martin's Press in 1999. It won the 1999 Michael Shaara Award for Excellence in Civil War Fiction.
Unholy Fire, Mrazek's second Civil War novel, was published by St. Martin's Press in 2003.
The Deadly Embrace was Mrazek's third novel, a World War II murder/mystery published by Viking Press in 2006. In 2007, The Deadly Embrace earned the W.Y. Boyd Literary Award for Excellence in Military Fiction from the American Library Association as the best military fiction of 2006.
A Dawn Like Thunder: The True Story of Torpedo Squadron Eight, Mrazek's first non-fiction work, was published by Little, Brown & Co., in 2008. A Dawn Like Thunder was named as a "Best Book of 2009 (American History)" by the Washington Post.
The Art Pottery of Joseph Mrazek: A Collector's Guide, was published by Wingspan Press in 2009, and tells the story of Mrazek's grandfather, the noted painter, inventor, and maker of hand-painted Czech pottery between the two world wars.
To Kingdom Come: An Epic Saga of Survival in the Air War Over Germany, published by NAL-Penguin in 2011, is an account of the ill-fated bombing mission of the American Air Force "Flying Fortress" team sent to raid Stuttgart in September, 1943. It was chosen as a main selection of the Military and History Book Club.
 Valhalla, a contemporary thriller involving the discovery of an ancient Viking ship and its crew beneath the Greenland Ice Cap, was published by Penguin/Random House in 2014.
The Bone Hunters, the sequel to Valhalla, also published by Penguin/Random House in 2014, tells the story of the search for the legendary fossil, Peking Man, which disappeared during the Japanese occupation of Peking in December, 1941, and has never been found.
And the Sparrow Fell, published by Cornell University Press in 2017, is a coming-of-age tale set against the backdrop of the Vietnam War.
Dead Man's Bridge: A Jake Cantrell Mystery, published by Crooked Lane Books on August 8, 2017, is the first installment of the Jake Cantrell mystery series. 
The Indomitable Florence Finch: The Untold Story of a War Widow Turned Resistance Fighter and Savior of American POWs, published by Hachette Books on July 21, 2020, tells the story of an unsung World War II heroine who saved countless American lives in the Philippines.
The Dark Circle, published by Crooked Lane Books on August 12, 2022, is the second installment in the highly praised Jake Cantrell mystery series.

Filmmaking
Mrazek, who attended the London Film School in 1968, wrote and co-directed his first feature film, The Congressman, which premiered in Washington, D.C., in April 2016.  The film stars Treat Williams, Elizabeth Marvel, Ryan Merriman, George Hamilton, Jayne Atkinson, Fritz Weaver, and Marshall Bell.

Publications

Adapted for audio (six cassettes), read by Jeff Woodman, Recorded Books, 1999.

References

External links
 Robert J. Mrazek's website
 
 

1945 births
Living people
Cornell University alumni
20th-century American novelists
21st-century American novelists
American male novelists
Methodists from New York (state)
American people of Czech descent
American people of Polish descent
Employees of the United States Senate
American anti–Vietnam War activists
County legislators in New York (state)
Politicians from Suffolk County, New York
Novelists from New York (state)
American military writers
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from New York (state)
21st-century American non-fiction writers
American male non-fiction writers
Screenwriters from New York (state)
Film directors from New York (state)
20th-century American male writers
21st-century American male writers
Members of Congress who became lobbyists