[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jo Portman

ental in the reinstatement of the newly returned Ruth Evershed. Jo convinces a torn Ruth that she is missed on the team and that she should talk to Harry. Her attempts are successful, and Ruth returns, but Harry later jokingly threatens to deport Jo if she becomes entwined in his private life again.

Later in the series, a group of terrorists storm a meeting of industrial billionaires and begin a series of ‘trials’, broadcast via an internet stream that bring to light the white collar crimes of those in question. After the first of the hostages is executed, both the US and UK governments agree to an aerial bombardment as a counter-strike. With Ros also taken hostage and out of radio contact, Harry instructs Jo to approach the hostage takers and negotiate. Her attempts prove initially successful, but the group's leader attempts to detonate an explosive. A struggle ensues, and Jo is caught in an awkward hold with the terrorist. It quickly dawns on Jo that the only way to bring the situation to a close is an act of self-sacrifice, and she silently nods for a now armed Ros to take the shot; killing the terrorist, but sacrificing herself in the process.

Ros is shaken after her part in the self-sacrifice of Jo, and her death continues to plague her throughout the remainder of series 8. Soon after, Harry is forced to break the news of Jo's demise to a tearful Ruth and in the following episode, Sarah Caulfield and her CIA associates deliver flowers and condolences to Section D.

Jo's place on the team remains vacant throughout the remainder of series 8 and she is only replaced in the following series when Beth Bailey is installed as junior case officer.

Other appearances
Jo's name appears in a newspaper byline in series 3, episode 6 of the crime  drama Hustle, a show devised by the same creators as Spooks.

References

Television characters introduced in 2005
Spooks (TV series) characters
Fictional secret agents and spies in television
Fictional English people