[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Robert F. Kennedy Journalism Award

roadcasting Company and KGTV-10 for "La Raza – The People."
 Citation: Carlos Aguilar of WOAI-TV for "Fiesta Patrias".

1975
The seventh annual awards were presented by Ethel Kennedy and Haynes Johnson. Harry Golden gave the keynote address. The awardees were selected from approximately 300 entries.

 Magazine:
 Loretta Schwartz of Philadelphia Magazine for "Nothing to Eat".
 Newspaper:
 Executive editor Mike Masterson of the Hot Springs Sentinel-Record for continuing coverage of the problems of the disadvantaged.
 Print – Honorable Mention:
 Francie Barnard of the Fort Worth Star-Telegram for "Congressional Discrimination," a series exposing discrimination in congressional hiring.

Articles in Series:
 "Discrimination Found In Congressional Jobs Orders",  August 18, 1974
 "Justice Department Will Not Investigate Hiring", August 19, 1974
 "Job-Order Forms Termed Authentic", August 20, 1974

 Print – Citation:
 Nancy Greenberg of the Philadelphia Evening and Sunday Bulletin for "The Indomitable Sondra Diamond."

 Melinda Foote of The Palm Beach Post for "The Bittersweet Harvest," a series about the problems of Jamaican laborers brought each year to Palm Beach County, Florida, to cut sugar cane in the Everglades.

Articles in Series:
 "The Bittersweet Harvest", November 24, 1974
 "Selecting the Cane Cutters", November 25, 1974
 "It's Filthy, Back-Breaking Work", November 26, 1974
 "Time Off", November 27, 1974
 "The Economics of a Bittersweet Harvest", November 28, 1974

 Radio:
 Terence Gurley of WWVA Radio in Wheeling, West Virginia, for "Back to Bloody Harlan."
 Television:
 Martin Berman, Peter Lance, and Geraldo Rivera of WABC-TV for "The Willowbrook Case: The People vs. The State of New York."
 Television – Citation:
 Hill Mermont of WGTV in Athens, Georgia, for "The Bikinians."
 Luis R. Cano, Philip Cano, Roberto Gutierez, and Willie Navarro of the Association for the Advancement of Mexican Americans and KTRK-TV for "The Aztecas and Their Medicine: A Chicano Legacy."

1976
 Radio: Bob Cain, Cathleen Gurley, WWVA Radio, Wheeling, West Virginia, "Care and Feeding of America".
 TV: Tom Pettit, NBC News, "Feeding the Poor".
 TV honorable mention: Dan Rather, John Sharnik, Peter Poor, CBS News, "CBS Reports: The I.Q. Myth".
 Print honorable mention: William Heffernan, Stewart Ain, New York Daily News, series on child care.

1977
 Grand prize and print: Acel Moore and Wendell Rawls, Jr., Grand Prize, for their coverage of the Fairview (PA) Hospital for the Criminally Insane in The Philadelphia Inquirer
 TV citation: Thom Dickerson, Lee Meredith, KTRK, Houston, Texas, "Requiem for a Dying Neighborhood", a documentary which described the decay in an area located in downtown Houston.
 TV citation: Ed Fillmer, KYTV, Springfield, Missouri, "The Retirement Trap".
 Print citation: Editorial staff, The Lake Placid News, New York, "Rebirth of Mohawk Nation or Illegal Land Grab".
 Honorable mention, college student: Christopher DeSalvo, Southern Illinois University, series on Laotian refugees.
 Honorable mention, college student: Bob Minnocci, West Virginia University, series on mental health.
 Honorable mention, print: Loretta Schwartz, Boston Magazine, Chicago Magazine, Philadelphia Magazine, various articles.
 Honorable mention, print: Edward T. Pound, Pam Zekman, Chicago Sun-Times, "Chicago's Money Merchants".
 Honorable mention, TV: William H. Willson, KCET, Los Angeles, "Handle with Care and Dignity".
 Honorable mention, TV: Bob Dotson, WKYC-TV, Cleveland, "The Urban Reservation".
 Honorable mention, TV: Sy Perlman, NBC, "Weekend" series on Sawyer Brothers.

1978
 Grand prize and TV: Bill Moyers, Tom Spain, Howard Stringer, Dan Lerner, CBS, "CBS Reports: The Fire Next Door".
 Print: Jonathan Neumann, William K. Marimow, The Philadelphia Inquirer, "Police Violence".
 TV citation: Jack Hill, KAIT-TV, Jonesboro, Arkansas, "Is There Any Hope for Hope Street".
 Print citation: Staff, Shreveport Journal, "Piney Woods Poverty".
 College student citation: New Expression newspaper, Youth Communication, Chicago.
 Honorable mention, print: Louie Gonzalez, Oakland Tribune, "I Was an Illegal".
 Honorable mention, print: Huge Aynesworth, John Bloom, Robert Montemayor, Howard Swindle, Paul West, Bryan Woolley, Dallas Times Herald, series on Castroville.
 Honorable mention, high school student: Jane Lincoln, Urban Journalism Workshop, 1310 Magazine, "A Walk Through Mt. Pleasant".
 Honorable mention, TV: Nancy Thurber, Robert Thurber, WPBT-TV, Miami, "God Gives You Years".

1979
 Grand prize and print prize: Fredric N. Tulsky, Nancy Weaver, Don Hoffman, The Clarion-Ledger, Jackson, Mississippi, "North Mississippi Justice".
 Radio: Steven L. McVicker, Jeanne Jones Riedmueller, KPFT, Houston, "The Question of Accountability: A Look at the Houston Police Department".
 Honorable mention, TV: Brian Ross, Janet Pearce, Joseph Angotti, NBC Nightly News, segment on migrant farm workers.