[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mifflin Wistar Gibbs

il seat by only four votes. He was elected to Victoria City Council in 1867 and served in that body until 1869.

Confederation Movement
In 1868, Gibbs was the Salt Spring Island delegate to the Yale Convention, an important step toward British Columbia's decision to join Canada in the confederation.

Return to United States
After about a decade, Gibbs returned to the United States and settled in Little Rock. He read the law to become an attorney and passed the bar examination in 1870. Becoming active in the Republican Party, he was appointed to a number of judicial and government positions, including county attorney of Pulaski County. In 1872, he was a delegate to the National Convention of Colored men in New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1873, Gibbs was elected city judge as a Republican, the first black judge elected in the United States.

In 1876, he was elected president of the National Convention of Colored Men at Nashville, Tennessee, and, in June of that year, he was appointed register of the United States Land Office at Little Rock. He was a delegate to the 1876, 1880 Republican National Convention, and 1884 Republican National Conventions, and was a member of the "immortal 306" who supported Ulysses S. Grant's failed candidacy for a third nomination at the 1880 convention in Chicago, Illinois. In 1882, Gibbs was elected to the Little Rock Bar Association.

He became wealthy through his law practice and real estate investments. In 1897, Gibbs was appointed American consul to Madagascar. As an aide, he hired a friend of his daughter Ida's, William Henry Hunt, whom he mentored. Hunt became the first African American to have a full career as a diplomat for the United States. Gibbs returned to the United States in 1901. He was selected as president of a largely African-American bank in Little Rock.

Personal life
Gibbs was married and had two daughters with his wife, the former Maria Ann Alexander, during the decade in which they lived in British Columbia.

The family relocated to Oberlin, Ohio, in 1869, where both daughters later attended college. Mary Ann had attended Oberlin College from 1852 to 1854. Daughter Ida Alexander Gibbs (1862–1957) earned both bachelor's and master's degrees in English. Her sister, Harriet Gibbs Marshall, went to the Oberlin Music Conservatory, where she completed the equivalent of a bachelor's degree in music in 1889. She became an accomplished concert pianist, author, and educator.

Ida met and became friends with William Henry Hunt, whom Mifflin Gibbs hired as his aide in Tamatave, Madagascar. Hunt was appointed to succeed Gibbs as American consul in Madagascar and had numerous assignments after that. He served until 1932.

In 1902, Gibbs purchased a property at 902 T Street, NW in Washington, D.C., at which his daughter, Harriet Gibbs Marshall, ran the Washington Conservatory of Music, one of the most successful female-owned businesses in the United States at the turn of the 20th century.

Gibbs died at 92 in Little Rock, Arkansas on July 11, 1915. He is buried at Oakland-Fraternal Cemetery.

Legacy
The M. W. Gibbs High School, was a segregated high school for African-American students, and the Gibbs Elementary School was also originally for African-American students, both in Little Rock in Arkansas and named after him. Additionally, the M. W. Gibbs Nursing Home, which was located at 2916 Center Street in Little Rock, was named in his honor, and .

In 2016, the City of Victoria declared November 19 'Mifflin Wistar Gibbs Day' in recognition of Gibbs becoming the first black person elected to public office in British Columbia. In 2019, a plaque was unveiled in his honor at Irving Park in Victoria, as well as a study room called the 'Mifflin Wistar Gibbs Study Room' in the city's public library.

Publications

See also 
 California State Convention of Colored Citizens
 List of African-American jurists
 List of first minority male lawyers and judges in Arkansas

References

Further reading 
 Gibbs, Mifflin Wistar. Shadow and Light: An Autobiography with Reminiscences of the Last and Present Century. Lincoln and London: University of Nebraska Press, 1995.
 McGinty, Doris E. "The Washington Conservatory of Music and School of Expression,"  Black perspectives in music, vol 7, no. 1, spring 1979.

External links

 Biography at the Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online