[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Agricultural research in Israel

oint Dutch-Israeli Agricultural Science and Technology Program, a bi-national Program with Queensland (Australia) and Canada. The latter are all on a much lower funding level than BARD. In addition funding is also obtained from the EU, The US – Israel Bi-national Science Foundation (BSF) and others.

The Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Environmental Quality Sciences of the Hebrew University in Rehovot is a major partner in the conduct of agricultural research. In the Faculty, which includes Agricultural economics and management, a School of nutritional sciences and hotel, food and tourism management are about 90 tenured scientific staff. The major scientific disciplines are: Agricultural Botany; Field Crops, Vegetables and Genetics; and Horticulture; Biochemistry, Food Science and Nutrition; Entomology and Plant pathology; Soil and water sciences; Animal sciences; Veterinary medicine and Agricultural economics and management. Additional research  is carried out at Bar-Ilan University, Tel Aviv University, the Weizmann Institute of Science, and Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, whose Jacob Blaustein Institute specializes in arid-zone agriculture.

Achievements
The ARO and its forerunner, the Agricultural Research Station, have helped to turn Israel's “mixed farming” system into a highly industrialized enterprise focused on export to Europe. Serious water shortages have led to the use of low quality and recycled water. Some 44% of the water used for agriculture comes from recycled water without lowering quality of the produce.

Exports to Europe include fruits (citrus, avocado, grapes), vegetables (sweet peppers, tomatoes, potato, melons, sweet potato), ornamentals (cut flowers, potted plants, propagation material) and herbs. In 1997, agricultural export (fresh and processed) reached over $1.329 billion - approximately 6.4% of the country's total exports (Source: Central Bureau of Statistics). This has necessitated an ongoing search for new products, niches in seasons and better storage technologies. Major achievements included an increase in productivity of fruit, vegetable and field crops with a reduced input of chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Efficiency in dairy farming has increased milk production to one of the highest in the world: over 10,200 litre/cow/year.

Awards and recognition
In 2010, Jonathan Gressel of the Weizmann Institute received the Israel Prize for agricultural research. The prize committee chose Gressel, who is internationally known for his work in plant biotechnology, for breakthrough research in molecular structures that has major implications for the development of weed killers.
The Israel Prize for Agriculture was previously awarded to about 10 different scientists mainly from the Agricultural Research Organization (previously the Agricultural Experiment Station) and the Faculty of Agriculture of the Hebrew University. 
In 2012, Daniel Hillel received the World Food Prize for his pioneering work in micro-irrigation techniques.

See also
Benjamin Elazari Volcani
Agriculture in Israel
Economy of Israel
Drip irrigation
Negev Foundation

References

Further reading
Oren, A. 1993. Agricultural experiments and trials in the Jewish settlements from their beginning until the first world war. Yad ben Zvi and the Agricultural Research Organization; 190 p. (in Hebrew).
Turel, S. (ed.)2006. Chronicle of A Utopia. The Templers in the Holy Land, 1868–1948. Eretz Israel Museum, Tel Aviv, 149p. (in Hebrew and English).

Science and technology in Israel
Agriculture in Israel
Agricultural research