[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Struma disaster

of the war". Greater numbers of civilians perished in other maritime disasters of the war, including Wilhelm Gustloff, Cap Arcona and Junyō Maru, but there were also military personnel aboard those ships at the time.

On 26 January 2005, Israel Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, told the Knesset:

Wrecks

Struma
In July 2000, a Turkish diving team found a wreck on the sea floor in about the right place and announced that it had found Struma. A team, led by a British technical diver and a grandson of one of the victims, Greg Buxton, later studied that and several other wrecks in the area but could not positively identify any as Struma since the wreck that had been found by the Turks was far too large.

On 3 September 2000, a ceremony was held at the site to commemorate the tragedy. It was attended by 60 relatives of Struma victims, representatives of the Jewish community of Turkey, the Israeli ambassador and prime minister's envoy and British and American delegates, but David Stoliar chose to not attend for family reasons.

Soviet Shch-213 submarine
In November 2008, a team of Dutch, German and Romanian divers of the Black Sea Wreck Diving Club discovered the wreck of Shch-213 off the coast of Constanţa in Romania. Since the registration markings that could have helped to identify the wreck were missing because of damage to the submarine, it took divers until 2010 to identify her as Shch-213.

See also
Lord Moyne
 – a former US packet ship carrying 4,515 Jewish refugees who were denied entry to Palestine in 1947.
 – a Turkish ship carrying 350 Jewish refugees that was torpedoed and sunk on 5 August 1944 by USSR submarine Shch 215
 – a Spanish cargo liner designed for 28 passengers that took 1,120 Jewish refugees to New York in a seven-week voyage in 1941.
 – a German passenger liner carrying 937 Jewish refugees who were denied entry to Cuba, the USA and Canada in 1939.
Le Grand Akshan
List by death toll of ships sunk by submarines

References

Sources

External links

 (Incomplete list of victims)
 MV Struma disaster on Yad Vashem website

The Holocaust in Bulgaria
History of the Republic of Turkey
The Holocaust in Romania
Maritime disasters
International response to the Holocaust
Israel–Turkey relations
Jewish immigrant ships
Jewish Romanian history
Maritime incidents in February 1942
Romania in World War II
Romanian emigrants to Mandatory Palestine
Ships sunk by Soviet submarines
World War II shipwrecks in the Black Sea
The Holocaust in Bessarabia and Bukovina
Migrant boat disasters
February 1942 events