[Source: PubMed]

7. J Prev Med Public Health. 2020 Jan;53(1):3-14. doi: 10.3961/jpmph.19.326. Epub
 2020 Jan 31.

Research Trends in Agenda-setting for Climate Change Adaptation Policy in the 
Public Health Sector in Korea.

Chae SM(1), Kim D(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Research on Future Disease Response, Korea Institute for Health 
and Social Affairs, Sejong, Korea.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Gillings School of Global Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

Comment in
    J Prev Med Public Health. 2020 Jan;53(1):1-2. doi: 10.3961/jpmph.20.005.

Many studies have been conducted to assess the health effects of climate change 
in Korea. However, there has been a lack of consideration regarding how the 
results of these studies can be applied to relevant policies. The current study 
aims to examine research trends at the agenda-setting stage and to review future 
ways in which health-related adaptation to climate change can be addressed 
within national public health policy. A systematic review of previous studies of 
the health effects of climate change in Korea was conducted. Many studies have 
evaluated the effect of ambient temperature on health. A large number of studies 
have examined the effects on deaths and cardio-cerebrovascular diseases, but a 
limitation of these studies is that it is difficult to apply their findings to 
climate change adaptation policy in the health sector. Many infectious disease 
studies were also identified, but these mainly focused on malaria. Regarding 
climate change-related factors other than ambient temperature, studies of the 
health effects of these factors (with the exception of air pollution) are 
limited. In Korea, it can be concluded that studies conducted as part of the 
agenda-setting stage are insufficient, both because studies on the health 
effects of climate change have not ventured beyond defining the problem and 
because health adaptation to climate change has not been set as an important 
agenda item. In the future, the sharing and development of relevant databases is 
necessary. In addition, the priority of agenda items should be determined as 
part of a government initiative.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.19.326
PMCID: PMC7002993
PMID: 32023669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors have no 
conflicts of interest associated with the material presented in this paper.