[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kathleen Clarke

Kathleen Clarke (; ; 12 April 1878 – 29 September 1972) was a founder member of Cumann na mBan, a women's paramilitary organisation formed in Ireland in 1914, and one of very few privy to the plans of the Easter Rising in 1916. She was the wife of Tom Clarke and sister of Ned Daly, both of whom were executed for their part in the Rising. She was subsequently a Teachta Dála (TD) and Senator with both Sinn Féin and Fianna Fáil, and the first female Lord Mayor of Dublin (1939–1941).

Early life
Kathleen Daly was born in Limerick on 12 April 1878, the third daughter of Edward and Catherine Daly (nee O'Mara). She was born into a prominent Fenian family. Her paternal uncle, John Daly, a subsequent Mayor of Limerick, was at the time imprisoned for his political activities in Chatham and Portland Prisons in England. Her uncle was released in 1896 and returned home to Limerick. At this time Kathleen had started a drapery business having previously begun an apprenticeship. When Tom Clarke, who had been imprisoned with her uncle, was released in 1898 he travelled to Limerick to receive the Freedom of the City and stayed with the Daly family.

In 1901 she ceased her business in the city as she had decided to emigrate to the United States to join Tom who had been there since 1900, having secured work through his Fenian contacts. They married on 16 July 1901 in New York City and lived in both the Bronx and Brooklyn areas of the city. They had three children together. Through his contacts in the Clan na Gael and the Irish Republican Brotherhood (IRB), Tom Clarke continued to be involved in nationalist activity.  Kathleen joined the Gaelic League while in the US and they returned to Ireland in November 1907. They opened a tobaconnist shop, initially at 55 Amiens Street, and later a second at 75a Great Britain (now Parnell) Street, which they ran together.

Cumann na mBan
In 1914 she became a founder member of Cumann na mBan. Her husband forbade her permission to take an active part in the 1916 Easter Rising as she had orders regardless of how the events would unfold. As Tom Clarke was the first signatory of the Proclamation of the Irish Republic he was chosen to be executed for his part in the Easter Rising. Her younger brother, Ned Daly, was also executed for taking part in the rising. She visited both of them before they were executed. Kathleen was pregnant at the time but subsequently lost the baby. She was committed to a long term struggle for Irish independence: "Other risings left only despair, and efforts towards freedom left to the next generation. I would make every effort to keep the ball rolling, and in some way continue the fight for freedom, and not let it end with the Rising." After the Rising Michael Collins established contact with her while in prison in his attempts to re-build the IRB network. She also set up the Irish National Aid Fund to aid those who had family members killed or imprisoned as a result of the Easter Rising closely aided by Sorcha MacMahon.

Political career

Sinn Féin
She became a member of Sinn Féin and in 1917 was elected a member of the party's Executive. During the alleged "German Plot" she was arrested and imprisoned in Holloway Prison for eleven months. During the Irish War of Independence she served as a District Judge on the Republican Courts in Dublin. In 1919 she was elected as an Alderman for the Wood Quay and Mountjoy Wards of Dublin Corporation and served until the corporation was abolished in 1925. She was also active in the Irish White Cross.

She was elected unopposed as a Sinn Féin Teachta Dála (TD) to the Second Dáil at the 1921 elections for the Dublin Mid constituency. She argued against the Anglo-Irish Treaty in the Dáil debates in December 1921 and January 1922. She was not re-elected at the 1922 general election, however and supported the Anti-Treaty IRA during the Irish Civil War. She was arrested briefly by the Garda Síochána during this time and her shop in D'Olier Street, Dublin was frequently raided.

Fianna Fáil
 
In 1926 she became a founder member of Fianna Fáil and had to resign from Cumann na mBan. She was re-elected to the short-lived 5th Dáil at the June 1927 election as a Fianna Fáil member for the Dublin Mid constituency but lost her seat at the September 1927 election and did not regain it. She was elected as one of six Fianna Fáil Senators to the Free State Seanad (Senate) for nine years at the 1928 Seanad election under the leadership of Joseph Connolly. She would remain a member of the Seanad until it was abolished in 1936.