[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Worldwar: Striking the Balance

e Jewish guard dead. Upon entering the building, Skorzeny attacks them with nerve gas and a submachine gun. Jäger is carrying a medical kit with an antidote to the toxin and manages to inject himself, Ludmila, and Anielewicz with it. They manage to kill Skorzeny and avert the detonation of the bomb.

In Cairo, the Race reaches an accord with the human powers. The Race will completely withdraw from the territories under the control of the United States, the Soviet Union, and Germany in 1942, with the exception of Poland, which the Race intends to hold as a buffer state between Germany and the Soviet Union. Atvar is willing to suspend hostilities with Germany, the Soviet Union, the United States, Britain, and Japan. Atvar has no intention of returning any part of the British Empire to the United Kingdom except Canada, which the Race considers to be uninhabitable because of its cold climate; Newfoundland, which joins Canada; and New Zealand, which is spared because of the Race's tendency to overlook islands. Australia was fully conquered after the atomic bombing of Sydney and Melbourne. The war ends, but fighting continues in the territories that the Race still controls, especially in China, where a determined communist insurgency, led by Mao Zedong seeks liberation. Also, the Red Army continues to mop up remnant German units from the German invasion.

It is clear that the peace is only temporary. The Race has not recognized the right of the human powers to their own independence and still officially intends to conquer the entire world at a later date. Nazi Germany is apparently still eager to use force to drive the Race off the planet completely but perhaps not in the immediate future. In the Soviet Union, Stalin assures Molotov that war with the Race and the other human powers is inevitable, especially since a second wave of alien colonists is expected to reach earth by the 1960s. The ruined United States begins the long process of reconstruction.

Characters

See list of Worldwar characters for fictional and historical characters.

References to actual history and current sciences
Turtledove is careful to avoid any elaborate technical details about the Race's technology. However, from the descriptions given in the novel, it is possible to surmise that much of the technology used by the Race is not only feasible but also common at the start of the 21st century.

The military equipment of the Race is almost entirely analogous to human technology. Its primary ground forces are composed of tanks and mechanized infantry with supporting self-propelled artillery and gunships. In one respect, at least, the Race's military equipment is actually inferior to human technology, that being naval warfare. Since the Race's homeworld has only a few large lakes and rivers, it never developed the sophisticated warships of the human forces. Battleships and aircraft carriers particularly strike the Race as literally unimaginable. In addition, the Race was caught completely off-guard by the use of chemical weapons, such as mustard gas to the point of not having any countermeasures such as gas masks. As a result, it is possible that the Race never used chemical weapons in its pre-unification wars or that the use of such weapons and the information that they ever existed has been removed via censorship from the historical record at some point during its around 25,000 Earth-years of unification.

The air forces are not fundamentally different from human air forces in terms of tactics and doctrine, being based primarily on the concept of achieving air superiority through the use of fighters. From a technical standpoint, the Race's aircraft have a tremendous advantage over human planes in that they are powered by turbine engines, but most human aircraft in mid-20th century were propeller-driven.

The Race apparently use several theoretically-feasible but not-yet-achieved technologies, namely nuclear fusion power and interstellar travel. Turtledove describes the alien vessels making the journey from Tau Ceti to Earth in twenty years, implying that they can travel at half of the speed of light. Vessels of the Race seems to create artificial gravity by means of rotation. During long interstellar travels, part or all of a ship's crew is placed in suspended animation by some unexplained method of artificial metabolic arrest, which is referred to simply as cold sleep.

References

1996 American novels
Worldwar and Colonization series
American alternate history novels
Alien invasions in novels
Del Rey books
Cultural depictions of Winston Churchill
Cultural depictions of George S. Patton
Cultural depictions of Franklin D. Roosevelt
Cultural depictions of Adolf Hitler
Cultural depictions of Pope John Paul II
Cultural depictions of Mao Zedong
Cultural depictions of Joseph Stalin
Fiction set in 1944