[Source: Semantic Scholar | Fields:  | Year: 2022 | Citations: 0]

Title: Ma, Xiao. (2022). Localized bargaining: the political economy of China's high-speed railway program. Oxford University Press

Abstract:
The book is the first work to offer a systematic and detailed account of the political process behind China’s high-speed railway program, the largest state-directed infrastructure program in human history. The author addresses the following central question: what accounts for the significant geographical and temporal variation in railway investment across the country? Conventional wisdom offers two explanations for such subnational variation in the distribution of public goods: loyalty purchasing and technocratic solu-tions. However, the author argues that neither theory can explain the spatial and temporal heterogeneity of China’s high-speed railway program. Both overestimate the policy-maker’s will and information capacity, underestimate the policy recipient’s agency, and ignore the credible commitment problem that is prevalent in authoritarian countries. Accordingly, this book describes a novel theory of distributive politics in China: localized bargaining, the bottom-up solicitation of policy benefits by local authorities. The author argues that solicitation activities on the part of local governments signifi-cantly shape the allocative decisions of their superiors. China’s fragmented bureaucracy prevents rulers from allocating policy benefits at will and creates space for localized bargaining. In response to the mismatch between policymakers’ and policy recipients’ resources and responsibilities, local officials address the central government by pro-posing and demanding policy benefits (such as the high-speed railway program) in their jurisdictions. The bargaining power of different local officials in the political system is the main factor explaining the uneven distribution of high-speed railway pro-jects in China. The author empirically confirms the importance of localized bargaining in achieving program success through detailed interview analysis and list experiments involving local officials.