[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Grammar induction

e. In a tree representation of a grammar, a terminal symbol of a production rule corresponds to a leaf node of the tree. Its parent nodes corresponds to a non-terminal symbol (e.g. a noun phrase or a verb phrase) in the rule set. Ultimately, the root node might correspond to a sentence non-terminal.

Grammatical inference by greedy algorithms
Like all greedy algorithms, greedy grammar inference algorithms make, in iterative manner, decisions that seem to be the best at that stage.
The decisions made usually deal with things like the creation of new rules, the removal of existing rules, the choice of a rule to be applied or the merging of some existing rules.
Because there are several ways to define 'the stage' and 'the best', there are also several greedy grammar inference algorithms.

These context-free grammar generating algorithms make the decision after every read symbol:
 Lempel-Ziv-Welch algorithm creates a context-free grammar in a deterministic way such that it is necessary to store only the start rule of the generated grammar.
 Sequitur and its modifications.

These context-free grammar generating algorithms first read the whole given symbol-sequence and then start to make decisions:
 Byte pair encoding and its optimizations.

Distributional learning
A more recent approach is based on distributional learning. Algorithms using these approaches have been applied to learning context-free grammars and mildly context-sensitive languages and have been proven to be correct and efficient for large subclasses of these grammars.

Learning of pattern languages

Angluin defines a pattern to be "a string of constant symbols from Σ and variable symbols from a disjoint set".
The language of such a pattern is the set of all its nonempty ground instances  i.e. all strings resulting from consistent replacement of its variable symbols by nonempty strings of constant symbols.
A pattern is called descriptive for a finite input set of strings if its language is minimal (with respect to set inclusion) among all pattern languages subsuming the input set.

Angluin gives a polynomial algorithm to compute, for a given input string set, all descriptive patterns in one variable x.
To this end, she builds an automaton representing all possibly relevant patterns; using sophisticated arguments about word lengths, which rely on x being the only variable, the state count can be drastically reduced.

Erlebach et al. give a more efficient version of Angluin's pattern learning algorithm, as well as a parallelized version.

Arimura et al. show that a language class  obtained from limited unions of patterns can be learned in polynomial time.

Pattern theory
Pattern theory, formulated by Ulf Grenander, is a mathematical formalism to describe knowledge of the world as patterns. It differs from other approaches to artificial intelligence in that it does not begin by prescribing algorithms and machinery to recognize and classify patterns; rather, it prescribes a vocabulary to articulate and recast the pattern concepts in precise language.

In addition to the new algebraic vocabulary, its statistical approach was novel in its aim to:
 Identify the hidden variables of a data set using real world data rather than artificial stimuli, which was commonplace at the time.
 Formulate prior distributions for hidden variables and models for the observed variables that form the vertices of a Gibbs-like graph.
 Study the randomness and variability of these graphs.
 Create the basic classes of stochastic models applied by listing the deformations of the patterns.
 Synthesize (sample) from the models, not just analyze signals with it.
Broad in its mathematical coverage, pattern theory spans algebra and statistics, as well as local topological and global entropic properties.

Applications 
The principle of grammar induction has been applied to other aspects of natural language processing, and has been applied (among many other problems) to semantic parsing, natural language understanding, example-based translation, language acquisition, grammar-based compression, and anomaly detection.

See also
 Artificial grammar learning#Artificial intelligence
 Example-based machine translation
 Inductive programming
 Kolmogorov complexity
 Language identification in the limit
 Straight-line grammar
 Syntactic pattern recognition

Notes

References

Sources
 
 
 
 
 
 

Genetic programming
Natural language processing
Computational linguistics
Grammar
Inference