[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of Shadow Raiders characters

ome very close friends throughout the series.  Cryos is also constantly worrying over his daughter, Zera's, safety.  Regardless, he never hesitates to engage the minions of the Beast Planet in battle, and is a very capable tactician and a valuable asset to the Alliance.  He is voiced by Mark Oliver.

Lady Zera
The curious and childish daughter of King Cryos, Lady Zera is a dreamer and wishes she could go on adventures like her father.  Often, she'll stow away on her father's vehicles, but he always finds her.  She can act quite arrogant at times, but she is actually quite caring and sweet.  Jade eventually teaches her how to battle so she can be safe while her father is on Alliance missions and Zera, like her father, is a skilled sharpshooter.  She also builds a very close friendship with the prince of Planet Fire, Pyrus.  She is voiced by Tegan Moss.

Commander Medstar
Besides the royal family, he is the highest-ranking member of Planet Ice. He was made king temporarily when Cryos stepped down, he then gives the throne back to Cryos just before the fight against Remora. He is voiced by Garry Chalk

Planet Fire
Planet Fire is known for it fire energy, and is mostly made up of volcanoes and lava pools. The people of Planet Fire are humanoid with different body types, what is common between all of them is that they have fire on the top of their heads. Planet Fire is the third plant to join the Interplanetary Alliance.

Prince Pyrus
The young and naive prince of Planet Fire, Pyrus took on the responsibility of ruling his world at a very young age.  His father died when he was quite little, and ever since then, Pyrus was raised by the Vizier.  He is a very kind, compassionate individual, but he can revert to a childish mood when set off.  He's very quick-tempered, and tends to do things without thinking them through.  Regardless, he is always putting the people of his planet first, which makes for a great leader.  When first approached about the Alliance, Pyrus enthusiastically joined, and was quick to realize the threat of the Beast Planet.  Pyrus gets along very well with mostly everyone from the Alliance, particularly Zera and Femur; he is the only member of the Alliance who trusts Femur, initially refusing to believe that Femur was retreating from the Remora battle.  He is voiced by Matt Hill.

The Grand Vizier
Prince Pyrus' royal counselor and surrogate father, the Vizier is a rough, untrusting old man.  He is a firm believer in old tradition and the way things were in the past, and is very loyal and protective of his prince.  He eventually sacrifices his life in hopes of destroying the Beast Planet, but before he dies, he witnesses Graveheart save Pyrus' life, and realizes the Alliance will give Pyrus a new home. The Beast soon recreates him and Planet Fire, so as to lure its inhabitants to be fed to it. However, it made a few flaws in the faux Vizer, such as his former mistrust of the Alliance. When Pyrus realized the truth, he allowed the faux Vizer to fall into an ocean of null energy, destroying the planet. The Vizier has several similarities to Captain Ahab from Moby Dick and his last words "For my planet's sake, I spit my last breath at thee". are almost the same as Ahab's final words before his own death. He is voiced by Jim Byrnes.

Captain Blaze
The captain of the Igneous Knights and of Pyrus's personal guard he is loyal in equal amounts to the heart of fire and to his prince. He is seen several times and at one stage he commands a battle moon to attack the beast planet so as to "go out in a blaze of glory", he also takes the bone emperor Femur along with him. However, when the prince is attacked by beast drones when attempting to follow him and bring him back Blaze realises that he cannot let his prince die and returns just in time to save the day. He is voiced by Michael Dobson

Planet Bone
Planet Bone is known for is earth and rich soil and is mostly made up of swamps. A common thing to do on bone is to kill the current emperor and take over. Most of the people on Planet Bone are reptilian. Planet Bone is the fourth and final planet to join the Interplanetary Alliance.