[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Eyes (novel series)

e triggering of an unstoppable set of geological cataclysms, Adam and his followers first created the Cuyahogan and its similars (at present time all destroyed but Cuyahogan) by imbuing them with shards of their life-forces, then built the subterranean complex of Shanzee to survive the catastrophe. 

In the complex Adam and the 30 kept a mirror tuned to the world of the Unmen, which the Unmen exploited to slowly mutate and control all those who took shelter in the complex. In the end Adam Cadman trasnferred his decaying self into a crystal matrix from which he could be able to reincarnate (becoming the first and the second Divine Mutant, the second time reincarnating in Phadraig due to the life-force link with Cuyahogan), while the Council of 30 became the mumen, forced to eternally dance in patterns of power and indissolubly tied to their master. 

The Unmen put all of them under their control through the madness-inducing Dream, which prevented them to recover their old personalities. Tah Ti also discovered the origin of the Song, being first played with sirenas through the ages by the builders of the submerged pyramid - a group of people oppose to the Zero Point project who tried to save as many people as possible and to commune with the future to put an end to the shadow cast by the Unmen over humanity. Tah Te briefly managed to send a confirmation he received the meassage to Ourania, the leader of the pyramid-builders, just instants before she and her followers were killed in the climax of the cataclysm, which also submerged the pyramid. With the stabilizing Rhyme acquired from Ourania's memories Tah Ti is able to stabilize the Song in himself and get new abilities, among which prescience.

Cuyahogan already triggered the self-destruction of the Shanzee complex, to obey of his directive to kill the mutants and ensure the destruction of the crystal matrix of the Divine Mutant, then escapes the complex with Sinope, aimed to kill the body of the Mutant itself. At the same time, finally suspecting to be a puppet under control of some entity he cannot perceive, the Divine Mutant leaves Zagrin and moves to the land of Lamassa, to investigate the only region he cannot see in his Dream, dispatching ten of his mumen to the Shanzee complex to retrieve his matrix. 

Tah Ti and the Cyclones manage to find the Divine Mutant's matrix in the Shanzee complex and together they defeat the ten mumen sent to retrieve it. They also succeed in awakening thousands of maddened mumen's followers and evacuate them from the complex before it is destroyed by the power reactor meltdown triggered by Cuyahogan. Tah Ti and the Cyclones finally move north to Lamassa, but they are just but witnesses to the final confrontation between the Unmen, the Divine Mutant and the Cuyahogan, who all meet at the very center of the alien settlement, which is nothing but the ancient Point Zero.

Here the Mutant and the twenty surviving mumen recover their former selves and minds of before the cataclysm, with no memories of the following events and relentlessly attacked by the mind powers of the Unmen to be subdued for good. Then Cuyahogan traces the Mutant/Adam thanks to its link to his life-force and discovers that he cannot anymore kill Adam or his mumen now that they are human again. Subduing to his former master Adam, under his command Cuyahogan projects all its memories what happened since the activation of Point Zero. Adam is shattered by the implied revelations and loses control on Cuyahogan, which leaps to Point Zero to protect Sinope from Unmen mind attacks To prevent the contamination of their world by Cuyahogan, the Unmen finally remove the energy bridge between the worlds, closing Point Zero and annhihilating themselves, the Cuyahogan and the mumen. Only the child body of the Divine Mutant survives, with no traces of the Dream or of Adam's personality.

The Children of the Song shatters the matrix in order to prevent further reincarnation of Adam, and the infant body of the Mutant, now devoid of any eldritch power or external influence, is adopted by Tah Ti and Sinope. 

The madness of the Dream is now over and all of humanity may now get access to the mind-opneing Song and the stabilizing Rhyme created in the ancient past.     

The book closes several decades after the struggle, with Tah Ti and Potidan discussing about a book of the events which Potidian just completed. 

Science fiction novel series