[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Food administration

Zealand, the governmental body responsible for developing food standards for Australia and New Zealand.
 The New Zealand Food Safety Authority, the New Zealand government body responsible for food safety and the controlling authority for imports and exports of food and food-related products.

Europe

European Parliament and European Union 
 The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, a committee of the European Parliament responsible for environmental policy and environmental protection measures, public health, and food safety issues,
 The European Food Safety Authority, an agency of the European Union that provides independent scientific advice and communication on existing and emerging risks associated with the food chain

Ireland and Northern Ireland 
 The Food Safety Authority of Ireland is responsible for the enforcement of food safety regulations and standards in the Republic of Ireland,
 The UK Food Standards Agency has jurisdiction in Northern Ireland,
 The Food Safety Promotion Board, the body responsible for the promotion of food safety in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland

Netherlands 
 The Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality (Netherlands), a ministry of the government of the Netherlands responsible for agriculture, fisheries, natural conservation, open-air recreation and national parks, food safety, and rural development.

Norway 
 The Norwegian Food Safety Authority, a Norwegian government agency responsible for safe food and drinking water; human, plant, fish, and animal health; environmentally friendly production and ethically acceptable farming of animals; cosmetics; medicines; and the inspection of animal health personnel.

Sweden 
 The National Food Administration (Sweden),  a Swedish government agency that is the central supervisory authority for matters relating to food and drinking water.

United Kingdom 
 The Food Standards Agency, a non-ministerial department of the Government of the United Kingdom responsible for protecting public health in relation to food.

United Nations and World Health Organization 
 The Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives, a scientific expert committee jointly run by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization.

See also 
 Agriculture ministry, a ministry or other government agency charged with agriculture. The ministry is often headed by a minister for agriculture.
 Fisheries management, draws on fisheries science in order to find ways to protect fishery resources so sustainable exploitation is possible.
 Food quality, the quality characteristics of food that is acceptable to consumers.
 Food safety, a scientific discipline describing handling, preparation, and storage of food in ways that prevent foodborne illness.
 List of non-profit food safety organisations

References

Food law