[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ōi Nuclear Power Plant

stating that the power was not needed.

On 29 October 2012 Kansai Electric Power Co. announced in an interim report that the F-6 fault running north–south between the plant's Nos. 1–2 reactors and Nos. 3–4 reactors was found to be not active. 
Digging and boring surveys gave no indication of danger.

Shutdown
On 19 March 2013 the NRA announced that it would check the power plant on the site according to the new safety standards, before their introduction in July 2013, in order to keep the plant in operation. 
When no problems were found, than continued operation until September would be authorized by the NRA. 
After this date the reactors needed their routine maintenance.
The NRA expected that the No. 3 and 4 reactors at the Oi plant would be able to clear most of the new safety standards, because countermeasures were in place. 
But the NRA intended to do a close examination.

In the first weeks of June 2013 a team of inspectors, including NRA Commissioner Toyoshi Fuketa, examined the two operating reactors.
On 3 July 2013 the NRA allowed the plant to keep the two operating reactors on line, although on 8 July new safety requirements for atomic plants would take effect. 
The NRA saw no serious problems at that moment. 
After September  because of the mandatory routine checks the reactors would be taken offline. 
To resume operations, the reactors needed to comply with the new requirements, including the absence of active faults under the plant. Half July the outcome of the latest trench survey was expected.

The Kansai Electric Power Company's Unit 3 at the Ohi nuclear power plant in Japan was shut down on 3 September 2013.
On 14 September 2013, the day before the no. 4 Oi reactor was scheduled to close down for regular inspections, some 9000 demonstrators gathered at the Kameido Chuo Park and later marched close to JR Kinshicho Station and the Tokyo Skytree. 
They called for an end of Japan's dependency on nuclear power. 
The day after the Oi-reactor closed down, leaving Japan without any nuclear power for the third time in 40 years.

In May 2014 the Fukui District ruled that it will not allow the restart of the Ōi-3 and Ōi-4 reactors.

Restart 
In December 2017 Kansai Electric Power announced that it will decommission Ōi-1 and Ōi-2 because of their age and the difficulty of making safety upgrades within their small containment vessels.
Unit 3 was restarted on 14 March 2018. Unit 4 was restarted on 9 May 2018.

See also 
 List of nuclear power plants in Japan

References

External links

the website of KEPCO in English
Oi Nuclear Power Plant 
Real-time display  – Ōi 3 and 4 are the last two on the page

1970s establishments in Japan
Buildings and structures in Fukui Prefecture
Nuclear power stations in Japan
Nuclear power stations using pressurized water reactors
Ōi, Fukui