[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Morris Jacob Raphall

t his B'nai Jeshurun Synagogue. Raphall took as his point of departure Jonah 2:3–4, in which the city of Ninevah is saved from destruction (by God) since the residents heeded the warning of Jonah. Raphall's position was that if both sides would heed the Bible, the upcoming calamity could be avoided.

"[H]e took the square stand that Judaism sanctioned slavery and that the institution was morally right." The Tenth Commandment (Exodus 20:17) prohibits coveting your neighbor's male or female slave; Noah condemned his son Ham to slavery (Genesis 9:25); all the Patriarchs owned slaves; most fugitive slaves must be returned to their owners; the Bible contains many regulations about how slaves should be treated. "My friends, I find, and I am sorry to find, that I am delivering a pro-slavery discourse. I am no friend to slavery in the abstract, and still less friendly to the practical workings of slavery. But I stand here as a teacher in Israel; not to place before you my own feelings and opinions, but to propound to you the word of God, the Bible view of slavery.... The slave is a person...he [sic] has rights. Whereas, the heathen view of slavery which...I am sorry to say, is adopted in the South, reduces the slave to a thing, and a thing has no rights."

His discourse was published the next day on the first page of the New York Herald and the New York Evening Express; it was reported on at length in the New York Times. At "the invitation of a number of leading gentleman of this city", he repeated his talk a week later as a public lecture (tickets required), and by February 1 it was advertised for sale as a 20-page pamphlet, The Bible View of Slavery.

Einhorn and Heilprin, concerned that Raphall's position would be seen as the official policy of American Judaism, vigorously disputed his arguments, and argued that slavery – as practiced in the South – was immoral and not endorsed by Judaism.

Einhorn replied in his German-language publication Sinai, Vol. VI, 1861, p. 2-22; it was immediately published in English translation as a pamphlet, The Rev. Dr. M. J. Raphall's Bible View of Slavery, reviewed by the Rev. E. Einhorn, D.D., New York, 1861. Michael Heilprin replied in the New York Tribune, January 11, 1861.

References

External links
 
 
 D. Einhorn, Raphall's Bible View of Slavery, reviewed

English rabbis
Swedish rabbis
English people of Swedish descent
Writers from Stockholm
1798 births
1868 deaths
American proslavery activists
19th-century American rabbis
Swedish magazine founders