[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

or. Despite his unaggressive nature, Saji has been caught up in the wake of the Gundams' actions, with Louise suffering and Kinue dead. As a result, Saji has developed a deep hatred for the Gundams, blaming them for the loss of his loved ones as he leaves for space to live his dream as an engineer. 

 In the second season, after being arrested under false charges of Katharon involvement, Saji is saved by Setsuna and learns his identity as a Gundam Meister.  After Celestial Being arrives at Katharon's secret base with the intention of leaving civilians Saji and Marina in their care, Saji secretly attempts to escape the base.  He is almost immediately captured by the ESF army under Sergei Smirnov's charge; he unwittingly leaks the whereabouts of Katharon base and one of Sergei's men leaks it to the A-Laws. Sergei releases Saji so he doesn't fall into A-Laws hands; however, the A-Laws attack the Katharon base, which ends in the deaths of many Katharon's members despite Celestial Being's intervention to stop the attack. The slaughter deeply upsets Saji until Tieria forces Saji to realize that turning his back to ignore problems is its own kind of malice.  Because Saji's actions led to the destruction of the Katharon base, Tieria forces Saji to remain with the Ptolemaios crew and no longer trusts Saji's judgment.
 While on the Ptolemaios II, he reluctantly becomes a part of the crew and learns the truth behind the events years ago and the motivations of the Gundam Meisters, allowing him to abandon his grudge and eventually understanding Celestial Being. When Ian is critically injured during a battle, he directs Saji to deliver the GNR-010 0 Raiser to Setsuna, so the meister can unlock 00 Gundam's true power can save the lives of the Ptolemaios crew. As the 0 Raiser's pilot, Saji must  continue going into battle alongside Setsuna, during which he learns of Louise being in the A-Laws and chooses to fight to save her. By the end of the series, Saji leaves Celestial Being and watches over Louise while she is recovering at a hospital, where they talk about humanity's future.
 Two years later he becomes more mature while he attends a PTSD-plagued Louise.  When the Earth Sphere Government ask for engineers to help in the Orbital Ring maintenance, he volunteers with Louise's encouragement. His last appearance in the movie is while Setsuna's consciousness is drifting and he watches every person he holds dear before awakening in his coma; Saji is working as an engineer while ELS drones are shown in the background. 

 
 Feldt is the daughter of Ruido Resonance and Marlene Vlady, who initially worked under Celestial Being as Meisters for the 2nd-generation GNY-series Gundam prototypes and later got married. In the beginning of the series, Feldt works as the tactical operator of Ptolemaios and later the Ptolemaios 2. In addition to her programming skills, Feldt is also a capable mechanic.  Though she tends to be reserved, she feels strongly towards all the members of Celestial Being as her family. She is strongly implied to have had a crush on Neil Dylandy until the latter's death but between the end of the second season and the movie, she openly develops romantic feelings for Setsuna. 

 
 Christina Sierra is the Ptolemaios tactical operator. Christina ran away from her adopted mother before being discovered by Celestial Being. She becomes good friends with crewmate Feldt. During the battle at Lagrange point 1, the bridge of Ptolemaios is attacked by a GN-X. Although Lichtendahl Tsery shielded her from the attack, she is fatally wounded by a shred of metal from the shattered bridge. Before Lichty dies in her arms, she realizes her own feelings for him. She contacts the surviving crewmembers and tells Feldt to live on for Lockon's memory, before dying in the subsequent explosion. 

 
 Lichtendahl Tsery, called Lichty by his crewmates, is the Ptolemaios helmsman. Lichty's parents were technicians on one of the orbital elevators and killed during the Solar Wars where he lost a large portion of his body, which was replaced with machinery. Although Lichty has a romantic interest in crewmate Christina, she maintains a friendly and professional relationship. During the battle at Lagrange point 1, the bridge of Ptolemaios is attacked by a GN-X, Lichty is fatally wounded while shielding Christina from the explosion. He soon dies in Christina's arms after she realizes her own feelings for him.