[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# August 1976

killed had boarded in order to get an early seat.
Around 10,000 Protestant and Catholic women demonstrated for peace in Northern Ireland.
The Senegalese political party PAI-Rénovation was recognized by the West African nation's government, becoming the third legal party in that West African nation.

August 15, 1976 (Sunday)
All 59 people aboard SAETA Flight 232 were killed in Ecuador when the Vickers Viscount 785D disappeared while flying from Quito to Cuenca,  to the south.  The last radio contact from Flight 232 came 21 minutes after its takeoff at 8:06 in the morning; at 8:27, the pilot reported being over Ambato at an altitude of . The four-engine Viscount airplane, along with its 55 passengers and four crew, would remain missing in the Andes for more than 26 years until October 17, 2002, when a group of mountain climbers came across its wreckage while attempting to scale the Chimborazo volcano.
The government of France ordered the mass evacuation of 72,000 people living in seven communities on Basse-Terre Island, part of France's overseas department of Guadeloupe in the Caribbean Sea, because of their proximity to the island's active volcano, La Grande Soufrière.  The volcano exploded on August 30, but there were no casualties except for two scientists who received minor injuries.
The Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, granted amnesty to 307 prisoners who had been convicted in courts-martial of civilians and military personnel.  The occasion was the celebration of the fiftieth year of the Pahlavi dynasty founded by the Shah's father, Reza Shah, on December 15, 1925.
Mexico's Campeón de Campeones (Champion of Champions) game was played between Club América of Mexico City (the Mexican League champions) and the Copa México winners, Tigres UANL of Monterrey.  Club América, nicknamed Las Aguilas, defeated Los Tigres, 2 to 0.
Born: 
Abiy Ahmed Ali, Prime Minister of Ethiopia since 2018; in Beshasha
Boudewijn Zenden, Dutch soccer football midfielder, Netherlands national team member and player in the leagues of four European nations; in Maastricht
Died: 
F. G. Miles, 73, British inventor and aircraft designer
U.S. Army Major General Harry C. Ingles, 88, commander of the United States Army Signal Corps during World War II, later President of RCA Global Communications.

August 16, 1976 (Monday)
Leaders from 85 "Third World" nations, officially "non-aligned" nations that were allied with neither Communist nations nor the world's major capitalist nations, opened in Sri Lanka at the capital, Colombo. 
Switzerland's government announced the arrest of the former commander of the Swiss Air Force, Brigadier General Jean-Louis Jeanmaire,  on charges of having supplied top secret military information and documents to the Soviet Union.
New Zealand's Private Schools Conditional Integration Act took effect, in the first program to allow private schools to come under the regulation and tax support of the government.  The schools, most of them Roman Catholic, became tuition-free while still retaining their "special character", subject to providing equal rights and opportunities for students.
The Convention on Psychotropic Substances, signed in Vienna on February 21, 1971, entered into effect, 
American golfer Dave Stockton won the PGA Championship tournament at the Congressional Country Club in Behtesda, Maryland.  Stockton sank a  putt on the 18th hole for a final score of 281 on 72 holes of golf, finishing one stroke ahead of Don January and Ray Floyd, who both had a score of 282, and avoiding a three-way overtme playoff.
The first National Football League game ever played outside of North America took place in Tokyo, at a preseason exhibition that the St. Louis Cardinals won, 20 to 10, over the San Diego Chargers, before a crowd of 38,000 fans.
The Ramones made their first "professional" performance, debuting as the feature band at CBGB, a bar in New York's East Tavern that initially limited its music to "country, blue grass and blues" music but soon moved into punk rock and new wave music.