[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kathy Kelly

to have entered the base in order to prevent a crime.

In May and June 2009, Kelly traveled to Pakistan with a small VCNV delegation, including activist Gene Stoltzfus, that met with organizations and families in Islamabad, Rawalpindi, Shah Mansour, Tarbella, and Lahore, reporting back with essays.

As documented in a 2012 Al Jazeera documentary, in January 2010 Kelly was arrested in the rotunda of the US Capitol building while taking part in a mock funeral, organized by Witness Against Torture, remembering Mani al-Utaybi, Yasser al-Zahrani, and Ali Abdullah Ahmed, three men then recently alleged to have been tortured to death in the US Guantanamo Bay prison complex. All participants of the protest were acquitted in court the following June.

In May 2010 Kelly made another Pakistan trip alongside activists Simon Harak and Josh Brollier. They met with families in the Swat Valley, Peshawar and Shah Mansur, as well as spending time in Rawalpindi, Islamabad, and Lahore. As part of this trip Kelly and Brollier travelled in Afghanistan as guests of the EMERGENCY, visiting Panjshir and First Aid Posts on the outskirts of Panjshir, Kabul, and Bagram (site of the Bagram Air Force Base). The stated intention of the trip was "learning more about conditions faced by ordinary people in Afghanistan".

Kelly made two other visits to Afghanistan in 2010, working closely with Bamiyan province's Afghan Youth Peace Volunteers. In October and November 2010 she visited the Afghan youths for one week in their home province before spending several weeks in Kabul, where she met with refugees from Helmand province and representatives of several NGOs, and wrote reports on her experience.

In December 2010, Kelly and six other Voices activists met with Afghan Youth Peace Volunteers in Kabul to assist them in a brief activist campaign; the Afghan youth issued a "People's December Review" to counter President Barack Obama's December Review of the Afghan war, they began hosting monthly international call-in days using the Skype internet phone service, and they conducted interviews, not only with NGO aid workers involved in the Oxfam America-authored "Nowhere to Turn" report, but with US Professor Noam Chomsky (via a Skype connection), and (separately) with current and former Afghan parliamentarians Ramazan Bashardost and Malalai Joya. Kelly's delegation helped them post internet transcripts of most of these events on their website.

Kelly returned with Voices to Afghanistan in March and early April 2011.

On April 22, 2011, Kelly was among 37 protesters arrested in Syracuse, New York, at Hancock Field Air National Guard Base in a protest against drone warfare organized by the Upstate NY Coalition to Ground the Drones and End the Wars.

Kelly spent June 22 – July 9 in Athens, Greece, as a passenger (along with retired colonel Ann Wright, "The Color Purple" author Alice Walker, and retired CIA analyst Ray McGovern) on The Audacity of Hope, the US boat in Freedom Flotilla II, a campaign to sail to Gaza from international waters in defiance of the Israeli naval blockade. The Greek government refused to allow the ship to sail, based first on a third-party complaint concerning the ship's seaworthiness, and then in an open policy of opposition to the flotilla. The ship attempted to sail for international waters but was intercepted by armed coast guard vessels and impounded. Kelly stayed a week in solidarity with the arrested Greek captain until bail could be arranged, then attempted to reach Gaza by plane in the "Flytilla", but was denied entry to Israel and returned to Greece.

In late December 2011 Kelly and two other international activists returned to a working-class Kabul neighborhood to live alongside members of the Afghan Youth Peace Volunteers, whom she then helped escort on a brief January delegation to Bhopal in India. They would return to Gujarat the following year.   She returned unexpectedly to Kabul for one week in February 2012 after having been denied a visa to enter Bahrain with the February 14th delegation of Witness Bahrain activists seeking to support demonstrations on the one-year anniversary of that country's suppressed Arab Spring uprising.

Kelly arranged travel to Gaza in hurried response to Israel's November 2012 "Pillar of Defense" bombardment, arriving one day after a ceasefire and spending the following two weeks visiting bombing sites and interviewing survivors.

In 2012 Kelly helped initiate the Afghan Peace Volunteers' "Duvet Project", using foreign donations to produce duvet comforters for free distribution to Afghans in the winter months. From 2012 through 2020, Kabul seamstresses were employed to eventually produce some 2,000 duvets the first winter and 3,000 the second, with ensuing seasons of the project work still underway. In visits over these years, Kelly also helped form the APV's women's community. Kelly continues in regular visits to Kabul.