[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# VLDL receptor

he individual neurons where to go within the anatomy of the brain. Mutations in VLDLR often do not lead to major disorganization as seen in reelin mutations. However, a VLDLR mutation does lead to some disorganization primarily located in the cerebellum, where VLDLR is believed to be most prominent.

Neuronal migration 
VLDLR is expressed on migrating neurons to help guide them to their proper location in the brain. This process is part of the reelin pathway, which is responsible for the inside-out formation of the six-layered neocortex. Despite the discovery of this pathway, many of the specifics and molecular mechanisms of this process are still being debated. The presence of two reelin receptors, VLDLR and ApoER2, has made it difficult to distinguish each protein’s specific function.  VLDLR is primarily responsible for the correct layering of pyramidal cells into layer 1 of the cerebral cortex. In particular, the absence of VLDLR may lead to ectopic accumulation of pyramidal cells in this region. VLDLR does not affect the migration of early born cells into an organized layer, but since its absence results in the invasion of these neuroblasts into the marginal zone, it is theorized that VLDLR may encode a “stop signal.” This is supported by the fact that VLDLR is primarily expressed in the cortical plate adjacent to reelin-expressing cells, Cajal–Retzius cells, and in the intermediate zone. However, definitive evidence has not yet been found. In general, reelin binds VLDLR and undergoes endocytosis via clathrin-coated vesicles. Meanwhile, an intracellular protein, Dab1, has a PI/PTB domain that interacts with the NPxY sequence found in the cytoplasmic tail of VLDLR. As a result, Dab1 is tyrosine phosphorylated and reelin is degraded. Finally, phosphorylated Dab1 activates an intracellular signaling cascade that directs neuroblasts to their proper location through the alteration of the cytoskeleton. Many of the specifics of this pathway are still being investigated. It is not yet known if Dab1 is phosphorylated as a result of the endocytosis of reelin, or if there is another mechanism at play. In addition to the organization of the neocortex, VLDLR also plays a role in neuronal migration of the hippocampus and the Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. Yet, much information on this process is still unknown.

Associated disorders 
Mutations within the VLDLR gene lead to a multitude of disorders of varying severities. These disorders are usually associated with cholesterol homeostasis or a disorganization of neuron ordering in the brain due to disruption of the reelin pathway. The most prominent of these diseases are type I lissencephaly, VLDR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia, and atherosclerosis. In contrast to causing diseases,  VLDLR has also been identified as a possible remedy for some disorders. Implementation of VLDLR into the liver may cure familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) in patients who either have defective LDLR or have defective immune systems that attack this protein. Since VLDLR is non-immunogenic it does not initiate an immune response, thus it is able to function normally under defective immune systems. In addition, being that apoE, a major ligand of VLDLR, is a leading genetic risk factor for Alzheimer’s disease, VLDLR may play a role in modulating the risk of this disorder  which is explained by the fact that a decrease in reelin signaling in the fascia dentata is supposed to initiate Alzheimer's disease.  VLDLR has also been shown to reduce the chances of premature heart disease and stroke because VLDLR clears out lipoprotein A (Lp(a)), a major inherited risk factor for these diseases.

Type 1 lissencephaly 
Type I lissencephaly, or agyria-pachygyria, is a rare developmental disorder characterized by the absence of gyri and sulci in the brain. These severe malformations are a result of aberrant neuronal migration. In classical type I lissencephaly, neuronal migration begins but is unable to continue to completion. This process is likely disrupted by alterations to several genes, including the VLDLR, DCX, ARX, TUBA1A, RELN and LIS1. The severity of type I lissencephaly therefore varies with the mutation type. A homozygous deletion affecting the VLDLR gene results in a low degree of cortical thickening and absence of a cell-sparse zone. The cell-sparse zone describes the region between the outer and inner cortical layers of arrested neurons. In addition, type 1 lissencephaly is closely associated with cerebellar hypoplasia.