[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# The Bhoys from Seville

hedral area of the city. One Irish pub was reported to have sold 300 barrels in the day leading up to the final, to satisfy the thirst of supporters in the near 100 degree heat (~ 37 °C). By the day of the final, an estimated 80,000 Celtic supporters had arrived in Seville.

The final vs. F.C. Porto

The humid weather meant that the game was played at a relatively slow pace, which seemed to favour Porto. This caused a number of rash challenges from Celtic, one of which led to Joos Valgaeren getting a yellow card on 8 minutes. After this it was very much a stoic affair, until 32 minutes into the first half when Capucho played in Deco, but he could do no more than fire his shot straight at Celtic's goalkeeper Robert Douglas. Straight after this attack Celtic broke on the counter with Henrik Larsson, putting Didier Agathe through on the right, but his cross was too high for Chris Sutton. Larsson had a chance to make it 1–0 on 35 minutes, but from Sutton's assist he was unable to make enough contact with the ball. Porto came close on 41 minutes when Deco moved past Bobo Baldé to go one on one against Robert Douglas, who saved Deco's shot with his legs. Porto finally found a way through on 45 minutes when, after an offensive play from Deco, Derlei followed up Dmitri Alenichev's shot on target, which had been saved by Robert Douglas. This gave Porto a 1–0 lead on the stroke of half time and Derlei's 11th goal of the competition.

Porto were unable to hold onto their lead for long; two minutes after the restart, Celtic equalised when Henrik Larsson met Didier Agathe's cross to send a looping header in over Porto's goalkeeper Vítor Baía to get his tenth goal of the tournament and his 200th Celtic goal. However, within five minutes, it was 2–1 to Porto when Deco's through ball found Dmitri Alenichev, who scored with a low shot. Just three minutes later, Celtic equalised once again through Larsson when he headed in Alan Thompson's corner. After this, the game stagnated until a couple of minutes from the end of the game when Jackie McNamara's errant pass found Alenichev, who shot over the crossbar.

Normal time ended with the game at 2–2. The ensuing periods of extra time saw defensive football from both sides; Celtic was down to ten men when Bobo Balde was dismissed on 95 minutes after his second yellow card. On 112 minutes, Derlei reacted quickest to a Robert Douglas block and rounded McNamara make it 3–2 for Porto. Porto managed to hang on even after having Nuno Valente sent off just before the end of extra-time, ensuring that they ended their 16-year wait between European trophies. It was Porto's first UEFA Cup win, and they were also the first team to win a trophy on the silver goal rule.

After the match Henrik Larsson said in an interview that he was disappointed to have scored two goals in the final and still come away with a runners up medal. Larsson stated that there was nothing to be happy about the outcome of the final. He told BBC Sport, "I've said before, I'd much rather not score and be able to lift the UEFA Cup, than to score twice and finish up on the losing side. There's nothing to be happy about, but now we have to find a way to lift ourselves for the league game on Sunday."

The Porto manager, José Mourinho, led his team to the Champions League title the following year before moving to Chelsea. Reflecting on the final, Mourinho was happy to admit he played part of a historic moment in football. He said, "As a football game, Celtic-Porto in Seville was the most exciting football game I have ever been involved in. An unbelievable game. Every time I see Martin O'Neill I remember I was the lucky one that day. An incredible match. I've never seen such emotional people. It was unbelievable."

The team for the final

Match facts

Viewing figures
The cup final was broadcast live on BBC One in the UK, and the viewing figures were as follows:

Match average - 8.3 million, 34.8% audience share
Programme average - 7.8 million, 33.6% audience share
Viewing peaked at 10 million for the quarter-hour 10.00–10.15pm

BBC Head of Football, Niall Sloane said: "We're delighted that so many people tuned in to follow a British team's progress in the final. We're only sorry that Celtic didn't win."