[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Sri Lanka Air Force

rmation and Information and communications technology ICT security. 
Directorate of Logistics
 Logistic -Supply chain managements, procurement, Equipment officer and Load Masters, Aviation Fuel quality control, Air Cargo, Air Movements – MOVCON, Property management inventories, physical verification, property disposal, catering, Receiving & Inspection aircraft spares and Aircraft spare depot-ASD.
Directorate of Civil Engineering
 Airfield Construction Branch – Civil engineering and mechanical engineering/electrical engineers, power transmission, Alternative power, Green power, Air conditioning and Infrastructure, accommodation, Air field Construction and maintenance water treatment and waste water managements.Directorate of ground Operations Operations Ground – Officers and Air/ground intelligence Air Gunners;Special airborne gunners, paratroopers, rescue team, it has infantry, paratrooper and light armoured units to protect against ground attack and defend against air attack with ground-to-air defence units, explosive ordnance disposal EOD
Special Airborne Force – The first elite special forces SWAT unit for VIP Protection in SLAF.
 SLAF Regiment Special Force – The elite special forces unit of the SLAF.Directorate of Health Services Medical Branch – Aviation medicine specialists, medical officers, nurses, paramedics
 Dental Branch-Dental surgeons, Dental assistants

 Equipment 
Aircraft

NOTE: Five IAI Kfir’s are being refurbished back to flying condition, with Block 60 improvements, the work is being performed by Israel Aerospace Industries

 Ordnance 

Air Defense

 Radars 

 Deployments 

Most of the Sri Lankan Air Force is deployed for domestic defensive operations, while a limited foreign deployment is maintained.

 Domestic 
 Air & ground operations are carried out from 20 bases around the country. These include 6 air bases with resident squadrons, 8 forward operational airfields, 4 ground stations, and 2 SLAF Regiment detachments.
 Security of the Katunayake International Airport is maintained by the SLAF Regiment.
 Ground-based air defence of infrastructure are carried out by the SLAF Regiment.

 Foreign  deployments
 Sri Lanka Air Force deployed its second aviation unit under United Nations Mission in South Sudan. The deployment consisted of three Mi-17 helicopters from the SLAF along with supporting staff.

 Training 

Under the guidance of the British Royal Air Force, flight training was first offered to Royal Ceylon Air Force pilots at RAF Station Negombo, a RAF airfield at Katunayake, in 1952. In addition, a number of cadet officers received flight training at the Royal Air Force College in Cranwell, in Lincolnshire, England. After the British withdrew from their military facilities in Veylong in 1967, No. 1 Squadron (Flight Training School) was established at SLAF China Bay in Trincomalee. With the increase in Tamil separatist activities in the mid-1980s, the air force stepped up its training activities, bringing in foreign pilots to assist in the helicopter training program.

Basic officer training is carried out at the Air Force Academy at SLAF China Bay in Trincomalee. The academy offers a two-year program of basic flight training and a variety of specialised courses. Pilot training was carried out at SLAF Anuradhapura by No. 1 Flying Training Wing using Cessna 150s for basic training and Nanchang CJ-6 (PT-6) aircraft for intermediate training. This has since been moved to SLAF China Bay. Advanced jet training is carried out by No. 14 Squadron in K-8 Karakorums also based at SLAF China Bay. Specialised training for different types of aircraft is carried out by the respective Squadrons; this includes F-7 Skybolt, Kfir TC.2 and MiG-23UB aircraft used for this purpose by No. 5 Jet Squadron, No. 10 Fighter Squadron and No. 12 Squadron respectively at SLAF Katunayake. For training of transport pilots, Harbin Y-12s of No. 8 Light Transport Squadron are used; Bell 206s are used for helicopter training. The General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University (KDU) formed in 1981 and situated in Ratmalana, fourteen kilometers south of Colombo, is Sri Lanka's only university specialising in defence studies. Apart from postgraduate defence studies each year, approximately fifty cadets from all three services are admitted to the university (aged 18–22) to participate in a three-year programme of under graduate studies.