[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sotho phonology

come 
, , and  become 

Examples:
  -kgwadi ('black with white spots') >  -kgwatsana (diminutive)
  diketso tsa hao ('your actions')

Other changes may occur due to phonological interactions in verbal derivatives:
  ho botsa ('to ask') >  ho botsetsa ('to ask on behalf of') (applied  -bots- +  -ela)

The alveolarization which changes Sesotho  to  is by far the most commonly applied phonetic process in the language. It's regularly applied in the formation of some class 8 and 10 concords and in numerous verbal derivatives.Velarization in Sesotho is a process whereby certain sounds become velar consonants due to the intrusion of an approximant. It occurs with verb passives, noun diminutives, the diminutives of relatives, and the formation of some class 1 and 3 prefixes.

 becomes 
 becomes 

For example:
  ho senya ('to destroy') >  ho senngwa ('to be destroyed') (short passive  -seny- +  -wa)
 Class 1  mo- +  -aha >  ngwaha ('year') (cf Kiswahili mwaka; from Proto-Bantu *-jaka)Elision of vowels occurs in Sesotho less often than in those Bantu languages which have vowel "pre-prefixes" before the noun class prefixes (such as isiZulu), but there are still instances where it regularly and actively occurs.

There are two primary types of regular vowel elision:
The vowels , , and  may be removed from between two instances of , thereby causing the first  to become syllabic. This actively occurs with verbs, and has historically occurred with some nouns.
When forming class 1 or 3 nouns from noun stems beginning with  the middle  is removed and the  is contracted into the , resulting in . This actively occurs with nouns derived from verbs commencing with  and has historically occurred with many other nouns.

For example:
  -bala ('read') >  -balla (applied verb suffix  -ela) ('read for'), and  mmadi ('person who reads')Vowel raising is an uncommon form of vowel harmony where a non-open vowel (i.e. any vowel other than ) is raised in position by a following vowel (in the same phonological word) at a higher position. The first variety — in which the open-mid vowels become close-mid — is commonly found in most Southern African Bantu languages (where the Proto-Bantu "mixed" vowels have separated). In the 9-vowel Sotho–Tswana languages, a much less common process also occurs where the near-close vowels become raised to a position slightly lower than the close vowels (closer to the English beat and boot than the very high Sesotho vowels i and u) without ATR (or, alternatively, with both [+ATR] and [+RTR]).Mid vowel raising is a process where  becomes  and  becomes  under the influence of close vowels or consonants that contain "hidden" close vowels.

 ho tsheha‡ ('to laugh')  > ho tshehisa‡ ('to cause to laugh') 
 ke a bona‡ ('I see')  > ke bone‡ ('I saw') 
 ho kena‡ ('to enter')  > ho kenya‡ ('to insert') 

These changes are usually recursive to varying depths within the word, though, being a left spreading rule, it is often bounded by the difficulty of "foreseeing" the raising syllable:
 diphoofolo‡ ('animals')  > diphoofolong‡ ('by the animals') 

Additionally, a right-spreading form occurs when a close-mid vowel is on the penultimate syllable (that is, the stressed syllable) and, due to some inflection or derivational process, is followed by an open-mid vowel. In this case the vowel on the final syllable is raised. This does not happen if the penultimate syllable is close ( or ().

 -besa ('roast')  > subjunctive ke bese ('so I may roast...') 
but
 -thola ('find')  > subjunctive ke thole ('so I may find...') 

These vowels can occur phonemically, however, and may thus be considered to be separate phonemes:
 maele ('wisdom') 
 ho retla ('to dismantle') Close vowel raising is a process which occurs under much less common circumstances. Near-close  becomes  and near-close  becomes  when immediately followed by a syllable containing the close vowels  or . Unlike the mid vowel raising this processes is not iterative and is only caused directly by the close vowels (it cannot be caused by any hidden vowels or by other raised vowels).

  ho tshela ('to pass over') >  ho tshedisa ('to comfort')
  ho loma ('to itch') >  selomi ('period pains')
Since these changes are allophonic, the Sotho–Tswana languages are rarely said to have 11 vowels.Labialization''' is a modification of a consonant due to the action of a bilabial  element which persists throughout the articulation of the consonant and is not merely a following semivowel. This labialization results in the consonant being pronounced with rounded lips (but, in Sesotho, with no velarization) and with attenuated high frequencies (especially noticeable with fricatives and aspirated consonants).