[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Masterbook

Masterbook is a generic role-playing game that was published by West End Games (WEG) in 1994.

Description
The generic rules of Masterbook, which do not have a specific campaign setting, use rules from both WEG's multi-genre role-playing game Torg (1990),  and WEG's science fiction role-playing game Shatterzone (1993). 

Like Torg, the Masterbook system utilizes two complementary forms of in-game conflict resolution: a unified dice mechanic, which is based on a roll of two ten-sided dice, and a game-specific deck of cards (the MasterDeck, similar to the Drama Deck in Torg) that is used to influence random number generation, character actions, and the game's plot.

Publication history
Masterbook is a 176-page softcover book that was designed by Ed Stark, with interior art by Paul Daly, Jamie Lombardo, Ron Hill, Karl Waller, and Brian Schomburg, and cover art by Stephen Crane. It was published by WEG in 1994. A limited-edition 483-page hardbound version was made that also included the World of Bloodshadows and World of Indiana Jones material in one volume.  

It was designed for use with the MasterBook Deck (also designed by Ed Stark), which contained a 108-card deck of playing-card size. It came in three types of effects. The 83 black Enhancement cards are handed in by the player for random benefits, like a bonus on a character's task roll, temporarily allowing extra actions, or granting extra Life Points. The 17 red Subplot cards are used immediately by the Game Master to create a random event or encounter. The four Picture cards (Disaster, Opportunity, Wild, and Interloper) are Wild Cards that can provide special effects that the gamemaster can tailor to their needs. The remaining 4 were two blank cards and 2 blank Picture cards. The deck was sold separately from the standalone rule book, but a free deck was enclosed with each worldbook box set. Expansions to the MasterDeck come with 12 blank cards and 24 Plot Development cards, which are Subplot cards that the players control that potentially could grant extra Skill Points.

MasterBook 1E (1994)
The Masterbook system was used for several licensed properties. It was also used for their proprietary fantasy-noir setting Bloodshadows. Each softcover worldbook came in a box set with a copy of the MasterBook rules, a MasterBook deck, and a pair of 10-sided dice.

The World of Bloodshadows box set (1994)
Galitia Citybook (1994) -  Details the City-State of Galitia, the largest city on Marl.
Mean Streets (1994) - GM companion. Comes with 2 two-panel game-master screens and a campaign pack with NPCs, typical adventure locations with maps, and a gazetteer about the City-State of Albredura.
The Unnaturals (1994) - Details the non-Human Unnatural races and contains rules for creating new Unnaturals.
Fires of Marl (1995) - A mix of background essays, short fiction, and adventures dealing with the myths and legends of Marl.
Padaar Citybook (1995) - Details the City-State of Padaar.
Shadows of Selastos (1995) - Collects the adventures Flight of Fear, The Lady is a Vamp, All That Glistens, and Trail of Riches set in the City-State of Selastos. Also includes twelve new Human and Unnatural templates.  
Sorcerer's Crib Sheet (1995) - Details and expands the magic rules for Bloodshadows and adds new spells. Also contains three new character templates.
Wilderness (1995) - Details the unexplored Wilderness outside the City-States. 
The World of Indiana Jones box set (1994)
Raiders of the Lost Ark Sourcebook (1994 Hardcover)
Indiana Jones and the Rising Sun (1994) - Details 1930s Japan. Contains the adventure Indiana Jones and the Masamune Blade
Indiana Jones and the Golden Vampires (1995) - Details 1930s San Francisco. Includes the adventure Indiana Jones and the Golden Vampires set in San Francisco's Chinatown.
Indiana Jones and the Lands of Adventure (1995) - Details Europe, the Middle East, South America and the Orient in the 1930s. 
Indiana Jones and the Tomb of the Templars (1995) - A collection of three adventures: The Druid's Curse, The Sword in the Stone, and The Tomb of the Templars.
Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom Sourcebook (1996 Hardcover)
Indiana Jones Artifacts (1996) - Magic items.
Magic & Mysticism: The Dark Continent (1997) - Magic rules. Also has rules for the creation of PCs and NPCs with magical powers.  
The World of Aden box set (1995) - Includes conversion notes from the MasterBook system to the D6 System.
The World of Aden: Campaign Chronicles (1996) - A rules companion that helps immerse the game master and players in the gameworld. 
The World of Necroscope box set (1995) - A worldbook based on the horror fiction of Brian Lumley's Necroscope series.
Deadspeak Dossier (1995) - A gamemaster companion for The World of Necroscope that further details the espionage horror/thriller gameworld. It also contains new espionage skills and abilities. 
Wamphyri (1996) - A guidebook detailing the Wamphyri race. 
The E-Branch Guide to Psionics (1996) - Psionics