[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# RANKL

und in sinusoidal macrophages in lymph nodes that alert the immune system to lymph-borne antigens. In addition to directly signaling through RANK for macrophage differentiation, RANKL activates the adjacent lymphatic endothelial cells to create a niche environment for these specialized immune cells.

Animal models 
Targeted disruption of the related gene in mice led to severe osteopetrosis and a lack of osteoclasts. Deficient mice, with an inactivation of RANKL or its receptor RANK, exhibited defects in early differentiation of T and B lymphocytes, and failed to form lobulo-alveolar mammary structures during pregnancy.
It was observed that during pregnancy, RANK-RANKL signaling played a critical role in regulating skeletal calcium release; in which contributed to the hormone response that stimulated proliferation in the mammary cells. Ultimately, impaired lobuloalveolar mammary structures resulted in death of the fetus. Those who suffer from osteoporosis often have a cardiovascular defect, such as heart failure. Some studies suggest, since RANK-RANKL pathway regulates calcium release and homeostasis, RANK-RANKL signal could invertedly affect the cardiovascular system; thus, an explanation for the positive correlation between osteoporosis and cardiovascular deficiencies.

Role in cancer 
Primary tumors will commonly metastasize into the bone. Breast and prostate cancers typically have a greater chance of inducing secondary cancers within bone. Stephen Paget's seed and soil theory suggests, the microenvironment in bone creates a sufficient ‘soil’ for secondary tumors to grow in. Some studies suggest the expression of RANKL allows sufficient micro environmental conditions to influence cancer cell migration (i.e. chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and multiple myeloma). Among patients with multiple myeloma, RANKL activity was greatly increased. In fact RANKL surface expression and secreted RANKL expression was reported to be increased, 80% and 50% respectively. Therefore, RANKL is considered to be a key signal regulator for cancer-induced bone loss.

According to the vicious cycle hypothesis, after secondary tumors cells have migrated to bone, the tumor cell will secrete cytokines and growth factors that can act on osteoblast lineage cells. Since osteoblasts control the regulation of RANKL, the stimulation via cytokines and growth factors will then stimulate osteoblasts to increase the expression of RANKL, often while simultaneously reducing bone formation. The additional RANKL-mediated osteoclast frequency and activity will in turn increase secretion of growth factors, or matrix derived factors, which can ultimately increase tumor growth and bone destruction activity.

Clinical significance 
RANKL, through its ability to stimulate osteoclast formation and activity, is a critical mediator of bone resorption and overall bone density. Overproduction of RANKL is implicated in a variety of degenerative bone diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis. In addition to degenerative bone diseases, bone metastases can also induce pain and other abnormal health complexities that can significantly reduce a cancer patient’s quality of life. Some examples of these complications that are a consequence of bone metastasis are: hypercalcemia, pathological fractures and spinal cord compression. Some findings also suggest that some cancer cells, particularly prostate cancer cells, can activate an increase in bone remodeling and ultimately increase overall bone production. This increase in bone remodeling and bone production increases the overall growth of bone metastasizes. The overall control of bone remodeling is regulated by the binding of RANKL with its receptor or its decoy receptor, respectively, RANK and OPG.

Denosumab 

Denosumab is an FDA-approved fully human monoclonal antibody to RANKL and during pre-clinical trials was first used to treat postmenopausal patients suffering with osteoporosis (PMO). In denosumab's third stage of the FDA's clinical trial, it was shown to: (1) decrease bone turnover, (2) reduce fractures in the PMO population, and (3) increase bone mineral density. The anti-RANKL antibody, denosumab, is also approved for use in cancer settings, and in those indications, it is branded as Xgeva. In both prostate and breast cancer, denosumab has been shown to reduce cancer treatment–induced bone loss.

Prostate cancer 
The HALT-prostate cancer trial (also known as NCT00089674) included 1468 non-metastatic prostate cancer patients who were currently receiving androgen deprivation therapy. Randomly selected patients were given either 60 mg of denosumab or calcium and vitamin D supplements. This was done to measure the effectiveness of preventing treatment-induced bone loss. The patients who received 60 mg of denosumab showed a +5.6% increased in bone mineral density and a 1.5% decrease in bone fracture rates.