[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Siberian intervention

tish unit bombarded Red troop concentrations, protected bridges and provided direct fire support and attacked Bolshevik boats on the river. In one action, the flotilla sank the Bolshevik flagship on the river and destroyed one other boat. They were later driven back by the Bolshevik advance on Perm.

On 28 October 1918 an independent Czech state had been declared, and this led the Czech Legion to lose any desire for fighting, since the troops now merely wanted to return to their country as free citizens. The Canadians also refused to play any part in fighting and signalled their desire to withdraw from Russia in April 1919. The last Canadian forces left Siberia on 5 June 1919.

Aftermath

Allied withdrawal (1919–1920)
In the summer of 1919, the White regime in Siberia collapsed. By August 1919, plans were made to withdraw the British forces and by 1 November the last of their troops had been withdrawn, with only the military mission remaining. During November, the Whites were being routed and the remaining Allies quickly scrambled to get out. On 12 January 1920, 12 members of the British military mission and two members of the Canadian Siberian Expeditionary Force were captured when their train was captured near Krasnoyarsk as they were fleeing the Bolshevik advance. The last members of the British military mission had left Siberia by February 1920.

On 7 February 1920, White leader Admiral Kolchak was executed, and in the next few months the Americans and the remaining Allied coalition partners withdrew from Vladivostok. The evacuation of the Czechoslovak Legion was also carried out in the same year.
However, the Japanese decided to stay, primarily due to fears of the spread of communism so close to Japan, and the Japanese controlled Korea and Manchuria. The Japanese were forced to sign the Gongota Agreement of 1920 in order to evacuate their troops peacefully from Transbaikal. It meant an unavoidable end to Grigory Semyonov's regime in October 1920.

The Japanese army provided military support to the Japanese-backed Provisional Priamur Government based in Vladivostok against the Moscow-backed Far Eastern Republic. The continued Japanese presence concerned the United States, which suspected that Japan had territorial designs on Siberia and the Russian Far East. Subjected to intense diplomatic pressure by the United States and the United Kingdom, and facing increasing domestic opposition due to the economic and human cost, the administration of Prime Minister Kato Tomosaburo withdrew the Japanese forces in October 1922.

Legacy

Effects on Japanese politics

Japan's motives in the Siberian intervention were complex and poorly articulated. Ostensibly, Japan, as with the United States and the other international coalition forces, was in Siberia to safeguard stockpiled military supplies and to "rescue" the Czechoslovak Legion. However, the Japanese government's intense hostility to communism, a determination to recoup its past losses to Russia, and the perceived opportunity to settle the "northern problem" in Japan's security by either creating a buffer state, or by outright territorial acquisition, were also factors. However, patronage of various White movement leaders left Japan in a poor diplomatic position vis-à-vis the government of the Soviet Union, after the Red Army eventually emerged victorious from the Russian Civil War. The intervention tore Japan's wartime unity to shreds, leading to the army and government being involved in bitter controversy, as well as renewed factional strife in the army itself.

Japanese casualties from the Siberian Expedition included some 5,000 dead from combat or illness, and the expenses incurred were in excess of 900 million yen.

See also

 North Russia intervention
 Southern Russia intervention

Notes

References
 Wright, Damien. "Churchill's Secret War with Lenin: British and Commonwealth Military Intervention in the Russian Civil War, 1918-20", Solihull, UK, 2017
 
 
 Moffat, Ian C.D. The Allied Intervention in Russia, 1918–1920: The Diplomacy of Chaos (2015) excerpt

External links
 Canada's Siberian Expedition website, by Benjamin Isitt
 WWI Siberian Diary, by W.C. Jones,  2nd Lt. U.S Army Russian Railway Service
 The Czech Legion

Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War
Wars involving Soviet Russia (1917–1922)
Wars involving the United States
20th century in Japan
History of Northeast Asia
History of the Russian Far East
History of Siberia
Presidency of Woodrow Wilson
Soviet Union–United Kingdom relations
Soviet Union–United States relations
Campaigns and theatres of World War I
Japan–Soviet Union relations
China–Soviet Union relations
Italy–Soviet Union relations
United States Marine Corps in the 20th century
Canada–Soviet Union relations
White movement