[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Rashidieh

PLO supported Saddam Hussein's camp during the Iraq-Iran-War, whereas Amal sided with Teheran. Eventually, the political polarisation between the former allies escalated into violent clashes in many villages of Southern Lebanon, including the Tyre area.

 1982 Lebanon War with Israel and Occupation 

Following an assassination attempt on Israeli ambassador Shlomo Argov in London the IDF invaded Lebanon on 6 June 1982, with heavy fighting in and around Tyre. The first target of the invaders was Rashidieh. There were 15,356 registered Palestinian refugees in the camp at the time, but John Bulloch, then the Beirut-based correspondent of The Daily Telegraph, estimated that it actually housed more than 30,000. Most civilians fled into underground tunnels and bomb shelters, while Palestinian fighters tried to hold off the Israeli army. The militants, however, came under massive fire from air strikes, gunboats and artillery. Bulloch reported that the IDF also dropped US-supplied cluster bombs and shells on Rashidieh. 
 
Noam Chomsky recorded that already by the second day much of Rashidieh "had become a field of rubble." he quoted a UNIFIL officer as commenting: "It was like shooting sparrows with cannon." On the fourth day, many civilians reportedly left their shelters waving white flags. Those who remained suffered for three more days, until the last guerillas were defeated. Bulloch writes that the Israelis lost nine men. The volunteer nurse Françoise Kesteman, who was a member of the French Communist Party, recounted as exemplary the death of a young Palestinian mother:"When Mouna left the bomb shelter to fetch food for the children, Israeli bombers ripped apart her small slender body."

For Kesteman, the bloodbath was a turning-point in her life and she joined the Palestinian guerillas after a brief return to France. She was killed two years later when she participated in an attempted attack on Israeli targets off the coast, making her the first French national to die fighting for the Palestinian militants.

When the fighting stopped after one week, more destruction was done "systematically", as the IDF brought in bulldozers. According to Bulloch, the occupation forces not only barred international correspondents from visiting the camp, but they also refused to allow the delegates of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) any access for five weeks. Subsequently, the Christian Science Monitor estimated that about sixty percent of the camp were destroyed with some 5,000 refugees living in the ruins:"Israeli soldiers dynamited air raid shelters built by the Palestine Liberation Organization. The shelters were scattered throughout the camp and their demolition resulted in the destruction of surrounding houses as well. [..] Many other houses were bulldozed, according to camp residents and UNRWA workers, creating wide swaths leading to the sea."The Israeli forces then made mass arrests, including women. The male detainees were paraded in front of hooded collaborators who advised the occupation forces whom to detain. Bulloch reported that <blockquote>"busloads of handcuffed and blindfolded suspects were taken off for interrogation. These men were denied the small comfort of International Red Cross visits since they were not considered prisoners of war, but 'administrative detainees'."</blockquote>Thus, the IDF obliterated Rashidieh as the main center of Palestinian operations into Upper Galilee. However, in the following three years, their occupation forces in the Tyre area came instead under the growing pressure from a number of devastating suicide attacks by Amal and - even more so - its emerging split-off Hezbollah. By the end of April 1985, the Israelis withdrew from Tyre and instead established a self-declared "Security Zone" in Southern Lebanon with its collaborating militia allies of the South Lebanon Army (SLA):

 1985-1988 War of the Camps: Amal vs. PLO 

Tyre was 8 km beyond the security zone  and taken over by Amal under the leadership of Nabih Berri."The priority of Amal remained to prevent the return of any armed Palestinian presence to the South, primarily because this might provoke renewed Israeli intervention in recently evacuated areas. The approximately 60,000 Palestinian refugees in the camps around Tyre (al-Bass, Rashidiya, Burj al-Shimali) were cut off from the outside world, although Amal never succeeded in fully controlling the camps themselves. In the Sunni 'canton' of Sidon, the armed PLO returned in force."Tensions between Amal and Palestinian militants soon exploded into the War of the Camps, which is considered as "one of the most brutal episodes in a brutal civil war":