[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Best Value

Best Value was government policy in the United Kingdom affecting the provision of public services in England and Wales. In Wales, Best Value is known as the Wales Programme for Improvement. A statutory duty of Best Value applies in Scotland.

Introduction 
The predecessor to the UK Labour Government's Best Value policy was the Conservative Government's 1980s policy of compulsory competitive tendering (CCT). This required public-sector organisations to enable private companies to bid for contracts to deliver public services (such as cleaning, transport, security, and catering) in competition with the public sector's own organisations. The idea was to improve services through competition. CCT requirements were relaxed upon the election of the Labour government in 1997, but similar concepts were soon promoted by the Labour government through its 'Best Value' policy.

Best Value was adopted in England and Wales by the Local Government Act 1999, introduced by the UK Labour Government. Its provisions came into force in April 2000. The aim was to improve local services in terms of both cost and quality:

Effects 
The range of activities affected includes almost all local authority functions, including for example social services, environmental health, housing and planning.

The first details of Best Value were set out in the 'Twelve Principles of Best Value' announced in June 1997. The bill to provide the statutory framework was introduced in the 1998/9 parliamentary session.

In the period between announcement and introduction (May 1997 and April 2000) the government sponsored 37 voluntary council 'pilots', 22 of which contained a housing element. The purpose of the pilots was to "test elements of the best value framework, and assess the extent to which actual improvements in service quality and efficiency have flowed from the new approach". The rationale for the introduction of Best Value was summarised as follows:

{{blockquote|Under Compulsory Competitive Tendering service quality has often been neglected and efficiency gains have been uneven and uncertain, and it has proved inflexible in practice. There have been significant costs for employees, often leading to high staff turnover and the demoralisation of those expected to provide quality services. Compulsion has also bred antagonism, so that neither local authorities nor private sector suppliers have been able to realise the benefits that flow from a healthy partnership. All too often the process of competition has become an end in itself, distracting attention from the services that are actually provided to local people. CCT will therefore be abolished."}}

Thus, the rationale for Best Value emphasised three points: the failure of compulsory competitive tendering; the importance of partnership in service provision; and the adverse effect of competition as a prime objective.

 History 
Under the leadership of John Major the Conservative government pursued compulsory competitive tendering almost as a dogma, often against the wishes of local government. This led to an uncomfortable stand-off between the two, with CCT regulations being produced in increasing detail, and sometimes extending further than would have been the case in the private sector. The government was unambiguous about what was required – issue of tender, receipt of tender, selection of provider.

The term compulsory competitive tendering was superseded in 2000 by best value''. Labour's Best Value proved more difficult to define. The notion of Best Value prior to implementation was enshrined within one key consultation document: Modernising Local Government — Improving local services through best value. This set out four defining elements of Best Value.

The first was the duty to secure economic, efficient and effective services continuously (the '3 Es').

The second required service reviews within which the authority must demonstrate that in the fulfilment of their duties under Best Value they have: compared their service provision with that of other private and public providers; consulted with local business and community; considered competition in provision; and challenged the reasons for, and methods of, provision (the '4 Cs').

The third defining element introduced a regime of audit and measurement of performance, with the broad expectation that, year-on-year, costs would reduce and quality would increase. Performance would be monitored locally through Best Value Performance Reviews (BVPRs), partly through adherence to locally and statutorily determined Best Value performance indicators (BVPIs), and disseminated annually through Performance Plans (BVPPs).

The fourth defining element of Best Value outlined the consequence of performance: government intervention in cases of Best Value failure, and reward in cases of success.