[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Iran and state-sponsored terrorism

o Seth G. Jones and Peter Bergen, the 2003 Riyadh compound bombings were planned by al Qaeda operatives in Iran, with apparent Iranian complicity. In May 2003, then-State Department official Ryan Crocker provided information on the upcoming attack to Iranian officials, who apparently took no action.

Opposing view
A West Point study based on documents uncovered in Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad found that the Iran-al Qaeda "relationship is not one of alliance, but of indirect and unpleasant negotiations over the release of detained jihadis and their families, including members of bin Laden's family." According to longtime Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) analyst Bruce Riedel: "Rather than being secretly in bed with each other as some have argued, al Qaeda had a fairly hostile relationship with the Iranian regime. To get members of his family out of Iran, for example, bin Laden had an Iranian diplomat kidnapped and then traded. The Iranians released some of his family members in the deal but then double-crossed al Qaeda by not letting one of his daughters, Fatima, free." Similarly, Steve Coll observes that bin Laden "was as paranoid about Iran as he was about the C.I.A. He worried that Iranian doctors might use medical treatment as a pretense to inject his sons with tracking chips."

Taliban insurgency
Iran does not designate the Taliban as a terrorist organization, and the IRGC actively opposes any U.S. presence in Afghanistan. American and British officials have accused Iran in the past of giving weapons and support to the Taliban insurgency. Due to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, Iran had to close some of its consulates in that country, but kept the embassy open. Unlike the tense relationship between the two sides in the 1990s, Iran competed with Pakistan in giving support to the reestablished Taliban government.

US court judgments
According to The Washington Free Beacon, On multiple occasions, US courts have awarded damages to the victims of terrorism; deemed payable by Iran on the basis that although the attacks were not directly controlled by Iran, evidence shows Iranian payments supporting these terrorist groups. There has been controversy over how to enforce these decisions in order to make Iran pay reparations.

Other allegations
Along with the above allegations, Iran is also accused of other acts of terrorism. Including:
 Mykonos restaurant assassinations. On September 17, 1992, Iranian-Kurdish insurgent leaders Sadegh Sharafkandi, Fattah Abdoli, Homayoun Ardalan and their translator Nouri Dehkordi were assassinated at the Mykonos Greek restaurant in Berlin, Germany. In the Mykonos trial, the courts found Kazem Darabi, an Iranian national who worked as a grocer in Berlin, and Lebanese Abbas Rhayel, guilty of murder and sentenced them to life in prison. Two other Lebanese, Youssef Amin and Mohamed Atris, were convicted of being accessories to murder. In its 10 April 1997 ruling, the court issued an international arrest warrant for Iranian intelligence minister Hojjat al-Islam Ali Fallahian after declaring that the assassination had been ordered by him with knowledge of supreme leader Grand Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and president Ayatollah Rafsanjani.
 The sponsorship of at least thirty terrorist attacks between 2011 and 2013 "in places as far flung as Thailand, New Delhi, Lagos, and Nairobi", including a 2011 plot to assassinate the Saudi Arabian ambassador to the US and bomb the Israeli and Saudi embassies in Washington, D.C.

List of entities with alleged ties to Iran

See also 

 Iran–Saudi Arabia proxy conflict
 Iranian expansionism
 Shia crescent
 Axis of Resistance
 Israel and state-sponsored terrorism
 Pakistan and state-sponsored terrorism
 Qatar and state-sponsored terrorism
 Terrorism and the Soviet Union
 United States and state-sponsored terrorism
 Iranian diplomat terror plot trial
 Kazem Rajavi
 List of Iranian assassinations
 Hybrid warfare against Iran
 Cyberwarfare and Iran

References

Foreign relations of Iran
Iran
Terrorism in Iran
Iran–Israel proxy conflict
Iran–United States relations
Iran–Saudi Arabia relations
Iran–Saudi Arabia proxy conflict
People killed in Ministry of Intelligence (Iran) operations