[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richarlyson

h the podcast Nos Armários dos Vestiários. This made him the first openly LGBT player to have played for the Brazilian men's national team and in the Campeonato Brasileiro Série A.

In 2023, he performed cosplayed as a ceramic water filter in the reality singing competition The Masked Singer Brasil.

Defamation grounded on his sexuality
On 25 June 2007, the newspaper Agora São Paulo reported that a football player of a major team would come out of the closet as a homosexual in an exclusive interview for the weekly newsmagazine Fantástico. The following day, Brazilian sports commentator Milton Neves invited the director of Palmeiras football club José Cyrillo Júnior for his live TV show Debate Bola. During the show, Neves asked Cyrillo Jr. if the player who was coming out was from his team. Cyrillo Jr. answered that "Richarlyson was almost taken by Palmeiras". Despite the public and the press overall seeing this as a potential give-away, the player did not comment on the case. The fact that Richarlyson turned down an offer from Palmeiras in the last minute, just before signing for rival São Paulo, put him in loggerheads with former Palmeiras director of football Salvador Hugo Palaia, which raised speculations about the team being homophobic. The rumors proved to be false later.
 
Richarlyson's attorney, Renato Salge, filed a lawsuit against Cyrillo Jr. for damages and defamation. Judge Manoel Maximiano Junqueira Filho dismissed the lawsuit and justified his decision by stating that football is a "virile, masculine sport and not a homosexual one" and that, on those grounds, "Richarlyson should be forever banished by FIFA and never be allowed to play football again". He suggested that a homosexual player should leave the team or start one of his own. After this ruling, the judge was given fifteen days to explain himself to the Justice Council of São Paulo and was also taken to court by Salge.

Career statistics

International

Honours
Santo André
 Copa do Brasil: 2004São Paulo Campeonato Brasileiro Série A: 2006, 2007, 2008
 FIFA Club World Cup: 2005Atlético Mineiro Copa Libertadores: 2013
 Campeonato Mineiro: 2012, 2013Individual'''
 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A Team of the Year: 2007
 Bola de Prata: 2007

External links

 globoesporte.globo.com
 Richarlyson at Footballdatabase
 sambafoot

References

1982 births
Living people
Footballers from Natal, Rio Grande do Norte
Men's association football midfielders
Brazilian men's footballers
Brazilian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Austria
Expatriate men's footballers in India
Brazil men's international footballers
Campeonato Brasileiro Série A players
Campeonato Brasileiro Série B players
Campeonato Brasileiro Série C players
Campeonato Brasileiro Série D players
Esporte Clube Santo André players
Fortaleza Esporte Clube players
FC Red Bull Salzburg players
São Paulo FC players
Clube Atlético Mineiro players
Esporte Clube Vitória players
Copa Libertadores-winning players
Associação Chapecoense de Futebol players
Grêmio Novorizontino players
FC Goa players
Guarani FC players
Cianorte Futebol Clube players
Esporte Clube Noroeste players
Campinense Clube players
America Football Club (Rio de Janeiro) players
Brazilian LGBT footballers
Bisexual sportsmen
21st-century Brazilian LGBT people
Brazilian bisexual people