[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jean Pierre-Bloch

the fight against racism was added to the name of LICA, which became LICRA in 1979. His activism had begun in 1934, when he investigated the pogroms committed at Constantine, Algeria.

From 1987 to 1989, he presided over the Consultative Commission on Human Rights by the side of the Prime Minister.

Family
Pierre-Bloch had three children with Gabrielle Sadourny: Michèle, Claude Pierre-Bloch, former producer and political adviser and Jean-Pierre Pierre-Bloch, former deputy (UDF-PSD) for Paris and municipal councilor (DL) in the 18th arrondissement. His grandson, David Pierre-Bloch, is a producer and a Nouveau Centre party's member.

Awards
 Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour
 Knight of the Order of Academic Palms
 Commander of the Order of Public Health
 1939 War Cross 6 citations
 Resistance Medal with rosette
 Cross of the resistance volunteer combatant
 Escapees' Medal
 Medal of the Supreme Soviet
 Volunteer combatant's cross
 Grand Officer of the National Order of Benin
 Medal of a liberated France
 Grand Cordon of the Order "Nicham Ephticar"
 Silver-gilt Honour Medal of the Local Collectivities
 Cross of Valor (Poland)
 Plaque from the Millennium of the city of Paris

In March 2003, rue Alexis Carrel in Paris was rechristened with Jean Pierre-Bloch's name.

Bibliography
 Jean-Pierre Bloch : Un français du monde entier (Jean-Pierre Bloch : A Frenchman of the Entire World) René Vérard, André Guillard. Édition Corsaire, 1997. 256 p.

Works

 Charles De Gaulle - Premier Ouvrier de France vu par un socialiste (Charles De Gaulle - First Worker of France as Seen by a Socialist) Éditions Fasquelles (Paris), 1945, 115 p.
 Mes jours heureux (My Happy Days) Ed. du Bateau Ivre 1947 294 p.
 Liberté et servitude de la presse en France : morceaux choisis  (Freedom and Servitude of the Press in France: Selected Fragments) Éditions du Livre (Monte-Carlo), 1952, 292 p.
 Le vent souffle sur l'histoire. témoignages et documents inédits (The Wind Blows on History. Testimony and Previously Unpublished Documents) Éditions S.I.E.P. 1956. 332 p.
 Khroutchev en France. essai biographique. (Krushchev in France. Biographic essay) Éditions S.I.E.P. 1960, 46pp
 Algérie - Terre des occasions perdues. (Algeria - Land of Lost Chances) Deux Rives, 1961 111 p. 
 De Gaulle ou le temps des méprises (De Gaulle or the Time of Contempt) éd. La Table ronde, 1969, 230 pp.
 Jusqu'au dernier jour (To the Last Day) Albin Michel, 1983, 280 p.

External links (in French)

 His testimony in the trial of Maurice Papon archives de l'Humanité
 L'Remembrance by LICRA
 The streets of Paris: the Alexis Carrel affair

1905 births
1999 deaths
Politicians from Paris
Jewish French politicians
French Section of the Workers' International politicians
Members of the 16th Chamber of Deputies of the French Third Republic
Members of the Provisional Consultative Assembly
Members of the Constituent Assembly of France (1945)
Members of Parliament for Aisne
French general councillors
Jewish socialists
Lycée Henri-IV alumni
French military personnel of World War II
Jews in the French resistance
Special Operations Executive
Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour
Commanders of the Ordre de la Santé publique