[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Colombia Three

ct which found the three men guilty of travelling on false passports and they were given varying sentences of up to 44 months. They were found not guilty on the more serious charges relating to training FARC rebels; however, the judge ordered their release upon payment of fines equivalent to £3,800.

Appeal
In accordance with Colombian law, the prosecution had the right to appeal the verdict, which it did. While awaiting appeal, the three men were free to leave jail but were instructed by a judge to remain within the country. The appeal court overturned the original trial verdict, and convicted the men of training the rebels, sentencing them to seventeen years in jail on 16 December 2004.

Return to Ireland
The day after their conviction, the Colombian Attorney General announced that the men had fled Colombia. On 5 August 2005, following an interview with Monaghan by RTÉ's Charlie Bird, it emerged that the three men had clandestinely returned to Ireland. The three men were subsequently questioned by Gardaí, but no moves have been taken in relation to extraditing them to Colombia despite the existence of a Colombian arrest warrant, since no extradition treaty or agreement exists between Colombia and Ireland.

Amnesty 
The trio were granted amnesty and were cleared of all charges by a Colombian special court on 23 April 2020. The three men had remained at large in Ireland for the duration of their sentence. A Colombian judge, member of Special Jurisdiction for Peace (JEP), said that there was no evidence supporting that "the three had been part of a terrorist group. Moreover, it is clear that none of the crimes for which they were convicted at the time had any victims. For this reason…a full amnesty will be issued."

References 

2001 in international relations
2000s trials
Colombia–Ireland relations
FARC
Fugitives wanted by Colombia
Irish republicans imprisoned on charges of terrorism
Provisional Irish Republican Army members
Quantified groups of defendants
Republicans imprisoned during the Northern Ireland conflict
Sinn Féin politicians
Trials in Colombia