[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Japanese destroyer Momi (1944)

was a  of the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) built during World War II. Completed in late 1944, the ship was designed as an anti-submarine escort and defended convoys between Japan and its occupied territories during the war. She was sunk with the loss of all hands on 5 January 1945 by an American torpedo bomber in the South China Sea.

Design and description
Designed for ease of production, the Matsu class was smaller, slower and more lightly armed than previous destroyers as the IJN intended them for second-line duties like escorting convoys, releasing the larger ships for missions with the fleet. The ships measured  long overall, with a beam of  and a draft of . Their crew numbered 210 officers and enlisted men. They displaced  at standard load and  at deep load. The ships had two Kampon geared steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft using steam provided by two Kampon water-tube boilers. The turbines were rated at a total of  for a speed of . The Matsus had a range of  at .

The main armament of the Matsu-class ships consisted of three  Type 89 dual-purpose guns in one twin-gun mount aft and one single mount forward of the superstructure. The single mount was partially protected against spray by a gun shield. The accuracy of the Type 89 guns was severely reduced against aircraft because no high-angle gunnery director was fitted. The ships carried a total of 25 Type 96  anti-aircraft guns in 4 triple and 13 single mounts. The Matsus were equipped with Type 13 early-warning and Type 22 surface-search radars. The ships were also armed with a single rotating quadruple mount amidships for  torpedoes. They could deliver their 36 depth charges via two stern rails and two throwers.

Construction and career
Authorized in the late 1942 Modified 5th Naval Armaments Supplement Program, Momi was laid down on 2 January 1944 at the Yokosuka Naval Arsenal and launched on 16 June. Upon her completion on 7 September, Kaya was assigned to Destroyer Squadron 11 of the Combined Fleet for training. Between 25 October and 2 November, together with the destroyer , she escorted the aircraft carriers  and  on a transport mission from Sasebo to Keelung, Japanese Taiwan, then returned to Kure. She was assigned to Destroyer Division 52 on 15 November; the division was transferred to Escort Squadron 31 of the 5th Fleet five days later. 

Together with the destroyers  and Hinoki, Momi was part of the escort for the aircraft carrier  in mid-December. Because an American invasion fleet had been spotted approaching the Philippine Islands, Unryū was intended to deliver a squadron of 30 Ohka kamikaze planes to Manila. The task force sailed west through the Shimonoseki Straits on 17 December to avoid American submarines, then turned south. Two days later, the convoy encountered the submarine  which sank Unryū. Momi and Shigure picked up 146 survivors between them while Hinoki unsuccessfully attempted sink the American submarine. Momi and Hinoki shaped course for Takao, Japanese Taiwan, later that day and Shigure remained behind to find the Redfish. From there, they steamed to Manila, the Philippines, on 22–24 December and then to Cam Ranh Bay in occupied French Indochina and Cape St. Jacques on 25–28 December. From there the pair escorted the ex-Italian reefer ship Ikutagawa Maru from Cape St. Jacques to Manila, arriving on 4 January 1945.