[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 33]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

est, too, I remember: a fine little
chap with curly, dark hair--rather like a young Italian, but with
features less broadly cast; drawn together and calmed by his northern
blood. Yes, yes; it seems but yesterday," he said, with a smile and a
sigh; "and now my little Italian is at college, with a bored manner and
a high collar."

"Oh, no; Ernest's a dear boy still," cried Hadria. "Oxford hasn't spoilt
him a bit. I do wish he was at home for you to see him."

"Ah! you mustn't hint at anything against Ernest in Hadria's presence!"
cried Mr. Fullerton, with an approving laugh.

"Not for the world!" rejoined the Professor. "I was only recalling one
or two of my young Oxford acquaintances. I might have known that a
Fullerton had too much stuff in him to make an idiot of himself in that
way."

"The boy has distinguished himself too," said Mr. Fullerton.

"Everyone says he will do splendidly," added the mother; "and you can't
think how modest he is about himself, and how anxious to do well, and to
please us by his success."

"Ah! that's good."

The Professor was full of sympathy. Hadria was astonished to see how
animated her mother had become under his influence.

They fell again to recalling old times; little trivial incidents which
had seemed so unimportant at the moment, but now carried a whole epoch
with them, bringing back, with a rush, the genial memories. Hadria
remembered that soon after his last visit, the Professor had married a
beautiful wife, and that about a year or so later, the wife had died. It
was said that she had killed herself. This set Hadria speculating.

The visitor reminded his companions of various absurd incidents of the
past, sending Mr. Fullerton into paroxysms of laughter that made the
whole party laugh in sympathy. Mrs. Fullerton too was already wiping her
streaming eyes as the Professor talked on in his old vein, with just
that particular little humourous manner of his that won its way so
surely to the hearts of his listeners. For a moment, in the midst of the
bright talk and the mirth that he had created, the Professor lost the
thread, and his face, as he stared into the glowing centre of the fire,
had a desolate look; but it was so quick to pass away that one might
have thought oneself the victim of a fancy. His was the next chuckle,
and "Do you remember that day when----?" and so forth, Mr. Fullerton's
healthy roar following, avalanche-like, upon the reminiscence.

"We thought him a good and kind magician when we were children," was
Hadria's thought, "and now one is grown up, there is no disillusion. He
is a good and kind magician still."

He seemed indeed to have the power to conjure forth from their
hiding-places, the finer qualities of mind and temperament, which had
lain dormant, perhaps for years, buried beneath daily accumulations of
little cares and little habits. The creature that had once looked forth
on the world, fresh and vital, was summoned again, to his own surprise,
with all his ancient laughter and his tears.

"This man," Hadria said to herself, drawing a long, relieved breath, "is
the best and the most generous human being I have ever met."

She went to sleep, that night, with a sweet sense of rest and security,
and an undefined new hope. If such natures were in existence, then there
must be a great source of goodness and tenderness somewhere in heaven or
earth, and the battle of life must be worth the fighting.




CHAPTER IX.


The Professor's presence in the house had a profound influence on the
inmates, one and all. The effect upon his hostess was startling. He drew
forth her intellect, her sense of humour, her starved poetic sense; he
probed down among the dust and rust of years, and rescued triumphantly
the real woman, who was being stifled to death, with her own connivance.

Hadria was amazed to see how the new-comer might express any idea he
pleased, however heterodox, and her mother only applauded.

His manner to her was exquisitely courteous. He seemed to understand all
that she had lost in her life, all its disappointments and sacrifices.

On hearing that Miss Du Prel was among the Professor's oldest friends,
Mrs. Fullerton became suddenly cordial to that lady, and could not show
her enough attention. The evenings were often spent in music, Temperley
being sometimes of the party. He was the only person not obviously among
the Professor's admirers.

"However cultivated or charming a person may be," Temperley said to
Hadria, "I never feel that I have found a kindred spirit, unless the
musical instinct is strong."

"Nor I."

"Professor Fortescue has just that one weak point."

"Oh, but he is musical, though his technical knowledge is small."

But Temperley smiled dubiously.

The Professor, freed from his customary hard work, was like a schoolboy.
His delight in the open air, in the freshness of the hills, in the
peace of the mellow autumn, was never-end